 
TABLE OF CONTENT

AUTHORS APPRECIATING NOTE

PROLOGUE

CHAPTER ONE - IT WILL TAKE SOME GETTING USED TO

CHAPTER TWO - BORN AGAIN

CHAPTER THREE - ALL THAT DIVIDES US

CHAPTER FOUR - MENDING THE BRIDGE

CHAPTER FIVE - REHEARSALS

CHAPTER SIX - 2 YEARS LATER

CHAPTER SEVEN - EDITH, YOUR DECISION IS NOW

CHAPTER EIGHT - TO LET HER GO

CHAPTER NINE - SOLA WHO HAS TWO SIDES

CHAPTER TEN - DWINDLING STORIES

CHAPTER ELEVEN - DIM LIGHTS

CHAPTER TWELVE - BOTH OUR FIRES

CHAPTER THIRTEEN - FORGIVENESS

CHAPTER FOURTEEN - BEST TIMING

CHAPTER FIFTEEN - BI-CURIOUS
CHAPTER SIXTEEN - COMING OUT OR NOT?
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN - SHOCKING NIGHTMARE

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN - AFRICAN PARENTS IN THE ABROAD

CHAPTER NINETEEN - WHY SHOULD WE BELIEVE YOU?

CHAPTER TWENTY - THE END?

EPILOGUE

AUTHORS ADDRESS

(THERE WILL BE A THIRD BOOK)

AUTHORS APPRECIATING NOTE

Hey everyone, Lola here. So, there are a lot of exciting adventures for not only Edith and Lana but Priye and Sola - I will explore the full character development of every one of the characters in-between my stories so get set for the next best revelations that will better help you understand why every characters takes certain decisions and actions.

People might be curious as to why a straight girl writes about Bi-curious, Lesbian and Gay relationships, basically, boldly representing LGBTQ people in a country which criminalizes the act and sentences offenders caught to atleast 14 years in prison – well, I feel this a stump on their human rights because society denies most access to adequate healthcare and rules in favour of stigmatization.

Nigeria as a nation has bigger problems than the LGBTQ community - bad roads, unstable electricity, job insecurity, security challenges and so much more are yet to be tackled and here my people are playing moral police to homosexuality. Our understanding of religion makes us hold dear some of the 'NOT YOUR BUSINESS' issues like who people should open their legs to.

The question then is; why should society have to dictate who you or I have sex with? Why should my sexual orientation pose a problem if whoever I am attracted to is consenting and equally in love with me? What happened to living one's truth, when even the truth has become a sin? with this series, I will be attempting answer these budding questions

Readers may have felt a little uncomfortable with the sex scenes laced in the plot of the first book kick-starting the series and I would say this to affected persons, sex will be very dominant in this piece, just a little FYI. Sex is an important part of healthy relationships in 2019 - if you are not sexually attracted to your partner why then are you with them in the first place. Sex is not a topic I shy away from, I love to explore topics on sex, lust and love because they are an integral part in understanding bonds between human beings. The little things like kisses and make up sex are relatable to my modern audience so yes I make no apologies for being very explicit in my description of certain events and it would only get wilder from here on out.

I will also be exploring several issues faced by LGBTQ individuals in Nigeria. Some of the double lives they have to live, family and religious interactions, societal distancing and several other issues which go hand in hand in further effecting the stigmatization of LGBTQ individuals in Nigeria today.

Some people have sent me messages asking my age and what I do - I am 24 years old, I was born on the 3rd of April. I am an E-book author, poet and bookclub moderator. I am currently running my Master's degree in Literary studies at the University of Lagos, Nigeria. When I am not writing, I am programming. I also happen to be very single for now. LOL!

Without further A-do let's get back into the story. It is indeed good to be back. I am super excited that 48 people decided to pick up the first book to read and I look forward to having more readers excited about the third book which should be out by 2020. I will love to get amazing reviews from you guys, it makes my day. Keep sharing as well, tell more people about the series - let us get more people following the story of two beautiful Nigerian women in search of true love in today's modern Nigerian society.

PROLOGUE

My name is Edith and I am confused.

Two years ago, I intentionally pushed Lana away and she did the next best thing, she walked right out the door - the next time her beautiful frame came in my line of vision, she stood beside some other lady. It was that instant, I knew I had messed up big time - I had lost Lana, my engagement and my sense of reasoning, strangely, I I still managed to keep a good job in the midst of all the madness.

I guess I had never really taken out time to understand what my heart really felt and wanted to realize how much I actually loved Lana, everything else seemed so wrong - I couldn't bare crave anyone's touch, if it wasn't Lana's I was not interested.

Calgary was cold, the people were different - it was a new place and I didn't even understand how I could begin to explore this beautiful place without drowning in the beautiful mirage of freedom away from the Nigerian homophobia against people who identify as lesbian or gay. I was worried though that this freedom could drown me further. In order to limit myself from breathing in the scent of incredible sensual freedom, I created a tight schedule around my week - it went thus; wake up, head to work, head to the gym, cook fresh meals I never really ate, and read a book till I fell asleep.

I stared at pictures of Lana and I whenever I could - I knew it would only make me feel sad but maybe I deserved worse than sadness, perhaps I deserved depression, to further sink into the darkness I felt myself already wrapped in. I rarely smiled anymore, my room was always a mess, taking care of and cleaning up after myself got really difficult - I was finding it so hard to keep my shit together. I thought moving out of Nigeria could help but now I just felt like a prisoner on exile, sentenced away from my home which had only Lana in it.

I tried figuring out where Lana could be but the world was a big place, I hoped she was happy but I also prayed she wasn't. I hoped she still remembered our kisses, our cuddles, our little pecks, my snoring, our sexy night caps and other awesome things that made her such an amazing woman to me. I missed Lana's meals, she always had the best meals for me anyday and anytime, for a rich girl, she knew her way around house chores \- I would have loved to have us living happily here together, if only I had been a little more patient, if only I had not gotten scared and done everything to destroy my only happiness all in the name of protecting myself, of being too fucking selfish.

It was 4am on a Saturday morning and I was already up - I found it hard to sleep. Dragging my feet to my dirty kitchen, I brewed a steaming cup of coffee and settled at the kitchen table to have a sip. I had never been much of a slob before but I couldn't seem to stop myself from procrastinating my cleaning and everything else around the house, the only thing I remembered to do was pay my monthly rent.

After a few sips of coffee, I felt a sharp pain at the lower left part of my abdomen - I knew I was going to have my menstrual period anytime from now - Lana was always a darling during this time, she usually babied me to sleep and cooked to best meals that helped me relax everytime - her usual loving charms worked always got me feeling at my best and heck was I hella productive at work because of her presence in my life. She never left my side till she felt I was better, I missed her, I didn't know how to live without her.

"Knock! Knock!!"

CHAPTER ONE – IT WILL TAKE SOME GETTING USED TO

I opened the door to find flowers placed nicely on my door mat - it was my favourite, red roses - I shut my eyes and opened them again, the flowers were still there, bending down I picked them up and brought it close to my nose for a sniff, I took in the scent and blushed at my memories as my fingers ran down the rose petals - I looked around, whoever dropped it was probably still hanging around, but there was nobody in sight, no one was waiting down the hallway neither was anyone coming forward to take responsibility for the warm gesture.

The last time I had ever gotten flowers was when I had received roses from Lana, I remember the first time she ever gave me roses, I had laughed real hard "Babe, am I a vegetarian, what is with the flowers?" I had asked "Just a nice gesture from one girlfriend to another. Don't you like it?" Lana curiously asked with a pouting expression, I had immediately pulled her into a warm embrace, Lana was petite, she was the perfect kind of small - "I appreciate the gesture babe but you see I prefer gadgets to mushy flower stuff." Lana scoffed, she knew I was trying to butter her up so in order to avoid the impending drama I had decided to get her one in return.

If I had come to understand anything about Lana and the way she loved, it was that because her upbringing was not the same as mine, she loved differently and most Nigerians who grew up like me in Nigeria were not used to being loved fiercely - I grew up in Nigeria, belonged to the higher middle class society but Lana's net worth could probably buy me a million times over however, she was so humble and content with her own stuff and worked hard for her own living that I often forgot she was the daughter of a man who earned his millions in dollars.

Lana loved the little things, she loved it when I sometimes brought her breakfast in bed as she was used to cooking anytime she stayed over at my place but on some occasions, I did my best to show her she was as important to me as well and she always appreciated all my efforts at showing her care even though I never showed it often. On compromises, Lana loved it when we both got pedicures together, it wasn't my best thing to do but it was her's so I thought of it as a date with the "ladies".

I began to cry, I guess it will take some getting used to, moving on from the fiercest love that only came once in one's lifetime, one I had fought off, later on appreciated and walked out on. Lana would always be the best part of me but hard as it might be for me, maybe I needed to accept my present and move on - this rose meant that someone out there was thinking about me, whoever dropped this rose probably saw how much I wallowed in myself and wanted to bring me out of my depth, they wanted me to see the beauty of life to experience it, I was sure it was going to take all of my hearts energy to get over Lana but maybe that was the only way to become a better version of myself. Lana was happy and although I beat myself up every day about causing her so much pain, I had also grieved a long time and deserved a little happiness myself even if it was for a short while – all I silently asked Lana's heart for in that moment, was a reduced sentence – a sentence that granted me an opportunity for bail.

With this thought in mind, I finally found confidence in myself and smiled for the first time in a long time. I used the rest of the day to clean things up around the house and cook a variety of meals I promised myself I would eat – I was not the best cook, but what I cooked was edible enough for my stomach. By the time I was done with my chores, it was evening and I could only crash into my clean sheets and promise myself to never wallow anymore, I had placed the bunch of roses in a big transparent vase at my bedside table, caressing it, I drifted into a deep sleep.

My name is Edith and I am also healing.

CHAPTER TWO – BORN AGAIN

My name is Edith and I am healing.

I woke up to a sunny Sunday and I rushed off the bed to get ready for Sunday service, I identify as Christian love going to church, most people don't know how much peace that brings me but in this time of healing, I felt much safer there - I never liked attending churches back in Nigeria, pastors there were all about the money and forced repentance (they threaten you into religiously accepting the word of God and feed you with the narrative of hell fire), of course accepting or re-accepting Christ at the alter everyday will always follow with the "Remember to drop your tithe, offering, welfare offering, Sunday school offering and let's not forget the covenant seed and pledges" and they have made it tougher to make excuses to not pay - they accept transfers, POS payments and ofcourse cash, you can even send it through the account numbers the media department never fails to display on the screen and the publication department never misses slipping into our Sunday bulletins.

The church I attended here in Calgary had a very accepting way of welcoming everyone, one thing they did that I love is that they never judged, I saw lesbians walk in with their partners in hand and gays do the same, I saw transgenders and drag queens all seated and praising the Lord and the service went on without fuss with the pastor preaching the scriptures to every one as human beings and not as sinners separated from the saints - last time I checked, Jesus himself said that he came for the sinners and not the saints, it was just like one of the biblical stories I knew by heart growing up about how the shepherd had been tending to his flock of sheep as they traveled and noticed one had gone missing, he left his flock in search of that one sheep. But you see, that was not the case with Nigerian pastors, they usually felt that once something was different about you then you had been possessed, they always wanted to exorcise anyone who wasn't what society had dictated – for a brief moment, I imagined if I had come out clean to a Nigerian pastor that I had been with a woman, not by force but by sheer will, his face of disgust probably won't be hidden and in a bid to seem chaste he would have offered to pray for me, but the thing is I didn't need prayers, if I wanted that I could pray for myself - it was not like his own life was perfect, maybe I needed to be born again and cast aside as a terrible woman loving homosexual sinner but definitely not in a Nigerian church - definitely not.

Returning from church later that afternoon, I met another rose on my door mat, the gesture was cute but now I started to feel a bit freaked out, if whoever it is could not send a name card to go along with the flowers then maybe I needed to be weary of who was actually sending these gestures my way – I mean white people were known to be a little coo-coo sometimes and it was always safer to not trust them too much.

I put out a small trash bin outside my door to stash the rest of the flowers in there. I didn't carry the rose in this time, instead I attached a note to it - "I appreciate the roses but hey, a name card or atleast stopping by for some tea when next you come by would be great."

Feeling satisfied, I walked into my home to have the warmest make of Jollof rice I had eaten in a long while.

CHAPTER THREE – ALL THAT DIVIDES US

My name is Edith and I identify as Curious.

People don't have the best tales to share when they talk about people who identify as "Bi-curious" they think we are confused, they feel we don't know what we want, they feel we are stingy and are out caring about only ourselves. I started reading up on what "Bi-curiousity" was about ever since I got to Calgary - Canada has several libraries scattered around and they are stacked with contemporary books on several things, I found it fun reading about them in my spare time, I loved to borrow these books and eat up the words.

After reading about 13 books on Bi-curiousity I began to understand what it actually was. Everyone who struggles with gender placement goes through this phase, this is majorly as a result of society's influence on our minds since our first cry at the hospital - because society restricts the total and immediate transition and identity acceptance, one can therefore be stuck in the loop that is bi-curiousity - but is that then a bad thing? maybe not - it is also an important process of finding yourself despite all that divides us.

In finding yourself you have to fall in the loop of the curious, you have to be curious to want to try things out, to find out why and in doing all of these things you begin to find your answers. Kissing a girl for the first time felt weird but it was something I had always been curious about ever since I was a child. I wondered how it would be to grope a girl and how she would shiver under my touch, I wondered why I couldn't ask a girl to be my girlfriend, I wondered why a woman's perked up nipple always seemed to get my attention, I wondered what sex would be like between two women, I always fought off the thought because society said it was not right and that in thinking that, I felt I was not correct, it felt like I had solved the equation wrong - it felt exactly like it was with mathematics, it was either you got it right or wrong, it was either a particular formula or nothing, it was always logic and not rationality.

You see, bi-curiousity is a thing, tasting a particular tea, doesn't make you like the tea because you tried it and so like me I am still not sure, I know I would not want to stay on the fence of bi-sexuality for too long. For me it is a pick one lose one situation but the idea of being a lesbian makes me so afraid and yet Lana made it feel so natural - I appreciated her for it, maybe she was placed in my path by life to open my mind up to my other self I had always managed to keep hidden.

Ever since I had sent Loveless back to Lana, I still wasn't sure she got it before she left but ever since I had returned the journal, I never felt the need to write down my feelings anymore, maybe I shouldn't have returned it but reading about my past with Lana as my happiness would have definitely broken me the more.

Tomorrow was Friday and some of the few friends I had made invited me to a club to let loose and I made up my mind to go no matter what. I was going to go enjoy myself, laugh a little and probably get laid - I was open to both sexes at this point, I wasn't going to mind if it was a penis or a vagina all I knew was that I needed to find a way to get Lana out of my head for good and rebound sex was seriously calling to me.

CHAPTER FOUR – MENDING THE BRIDGE

My name is Edith, and I Identify as Curious.

I really should get a dog, the house feels empty - I have no one to share it with and Lana well, enough about Lana, I really should get ready for the party tonight. I usually am not the kind to go out much or be excited about going out but heck, it had been so long since I had mingled - I didn't know how to explain it, but I felt like something interesting was going to go down tonight.

I dressed more feminine tonight, I really wanted to do things differently, with my hair packed in a bun and my edges set, I added some light make up, I couldn't remember the last time I had done any serious makeup on my face, maybe in my first year of College - my brows had been drawn, my lip gloss applied and my face looking like a snack - I knew I was pretty but most times I chose to ignore it, my beauty was probably the reason why a lot of guys wanted to date me back in Nigeria, they however never stayed long - they were not attracted to the person I really was, rather, they were attracted to my face and body. My body was banging even though I never really dressed to show my curves but tonight all that was going to change.

Getting to my door, I hesitated - I hoped to not find any strange rose at the door and even if I did I hoped the person had enough decency to address it properly by stating their name and intent. I still kept the first bunch of roses though, those roses had saved me at my darkest moment and I kind of needed whoever was sending them to know that they strangely brightened my day, knowing that someone was thinking about me even if that person later turned out to be a freaky stalker.

Sure enough when I opened the door, I saw another rose, this time it had a little note stuck to it which read "I would have loved to introduce myself but you may be too shocked so let's just keep this a mystery, who knows I may reveal myself tonight after all we are going to the party together" I read it in disbelief, I was going out with my friends tonight so who was this person, I was going to be with atleast 8 people, 5 were ladies and the remaining 3 gents - my friends couldn't possibly have a crush on me, I mean most of them were in relationships, this was getting weird and all of a sudden my skin began to crawl, maybe I shouldn't go out anymore, if this person knows where I would be, then I may have a stalker on my hands Before I could make a decision, Ken called. "Hey girl, we are downstairs. Are you ready to have fun?" I heard Kelly and Drew giggle in the background and with that I heard myself say "Yes, of course Ken, I will be right down".

Once downstairs and in the car, I decided to forget about the whole rose thing and focus on having fun with my friends, I would just make sure I didn't leave my friend's sight at any point in time, thank goodness I had my pepper spray and Taser in my bag, it might come in handy tonight, I really could never know - I wanted total healing, and in finding that healing, I was thankful to my new friends who were mending the bridge and trying their best to bring me back to my reality, one that sadly would never have Lana in it again.

At the club, everywhere was turnt, people were out to have fun, all my friends were together with more friends and their partners, everyone was dancing and I joined in the fun until I felt too tired and dizzy to keep up. Feeling too hot, I left the dance floor and sat by the bar. "Some lime water Yezi" I said, the bartender smiled and went right to mixing, I watched my friends have fun from a distance and while my eye glanced around I noticed a white lady sited down across from me, she looked like she had been cooling off from the intense feeling oozing from the club, I smiled at her and she smiled back – foreigners were really laid back people I thought. Further away from the first white woman sat a couple who had started making out. Her boyfriend had just brought out his babes left boob and began biting at her nipples, luckily for them, everyone at the club was probably too drunk to see what they were up to, soon enough left for the toilet where I knew they were going to get freaky - good for them, everyone deserved a great night.

"Hey" I heard someone say, whoever it was, was probably talking to the bartender, I didn't look in the direction of the voice and kept staring at my friends dancing and making complete fools of themselves - "Hey" the voice came again, a little closer this time and I smelt a little alcohol and a very familiar perfume scent. I looked up surprised "What? Am I dreaming?" I asked. "No, you are not" she said, "I am your rose admirer Edith" the stranger finished with a smile that I remembered all too well.

CHAPTER FIVE – REHEARSALS

My name is Edith and oh am I in a lot of shit at the moment.

Looking up to see Janet, one of my co-workers who by chance also happened to know Elsa, my friend who initially came up with the club outing was quite settling - it was better her than a dangerous stalker I guess, I let out a sigh. "Why the sigh? Disappointed to know it is me?" Janet asked with a frown beginning to take shape in form of a light crease on her delicate forehead. "At all, I am relieved it is you if anything else" I said with a smile, the bartender had just returned with my lime water, I wondered what took him so long but I didn't bother asking, I just took a sip and stared at Janet.

I didn't know who was to kick-start the conversation and I really didn't want anything feeling awkward, I was really grateful for the flowers, finding out it was Janet who I secretly had a crush on when I initially resumed at the Calgary office was also very comforting. "So..." we both started, then laughed. "Awkward right?" Janet asked with a smile, "Not really, to be honest, I was actually happy to have received the rose, it really helped me out of a dark place" I started. "I figured it would, I am glad it did, I did not like how you moped around the office - it felt like you were just living but you know not really living" Janet replied. I let out a smirk. "Yeah, you can say that again. However, ..." I continued, sitting up to properly face her, a serious expression on my face "I am tired of moping around, I want to try experience a lot of new things" "I see, the whole fitting dress and make up is totally not Edith from Cross-Verse Tech" We both laughed. "Do you want a drink?" I asked and she nodded, I called the attention of the bartender "Mix up something as hot as this lady is tonight" I said as I looked Janet up and down sensually.

Janet reminded me so much of Lana, she was small and pretty and smelt like flowers but she was not Lana. We both chatted for a bit over drinks. "So, did you just send me those flowers to cheer me up?" I suddenly asked, she looked taken aback but she braced herself up to answer, I did not have time to wait, her answer meant nothing to me, I knew she had other intentions and I did not have time to hear her drag this on for too long, so I leaned in for a kiss and was glad when she leaned in as well - we made out for a bit and she whispered "I have always wanted you Edith, even back then when you kissed me at your place" I caressed her face and leaned in for another kiss.

I remembered the first day I had met Janet like it was yesterday, I had resumed at the office and a week later I saw Janet waltzing into work from her leave, she was breathtaking and I followed her instinctively, I stalked her activities at the office for well over a week before I went forward to introduce myself. "Hey, I am Edith", I had said. She was cool, she seemed to understand my Nigerian accent because she didn't ask me to repeat myself like most of my other colleagues did - I was happy she was not racist because I had heard that Black Americans usually had it out for Africans and often discriminated against them than even whites who were known for racist behaviours \- I had to be careful around people here, the way they all had licenses to get hold of guns was not safe and any little misunderstanding could mean the end of my life as I knew it but Janet was different.

The day I had kissed Janet, she was unable to go home after a work outing and we both decided to head to my place for the night, Janet and I had become quite close after our first encounter and we often spoke about random things. I might be curious and into girls but I also knew how to put my vagina in my pants so I did not have any intentions with Janet that night - I was pretty wasted myself so I wanted to head home and get straight into bed but Janet was too wasted and kept misbehaving so I had to clean up after her.

When I finally got her settled in my bed, I was about to turn off the bed-side lamp close to her and I noticed her lips for the first time, I leaned in and placed a soft peck on them and suddenly, her eyes flew open - "What are you doing?" she asked "Umm! Rehearsals?" I had replied and hoped she was too drunk to make sense of what I had said but it would take a lot to keep Janet dull "Kissing rehearsals?" She asked, I couldn't say anything. "I am sorry I got carried away" was all I could manage to say. "Why are you apologizing, your lips tasted good." she said, her voice sort of mixed with a little moan, I felt my vagina tighten and I struggled to not push for more. I nodded and smiled - I was about turning away from her to leave the room when she dragged my lips to meet hers and we made out for close to an hour, she was messy with her tongue but she was good all the same.

Since then, we both just stayed friends, I didn't want to push my luck and since she too never spoke about it I pretended it never happened and besides I was not over Lana, if we had started anything at that moment I was not sure I was going to be ready to commit to anything.

When we finally broke off the kiss at the bar, Janet whispered in my ears "Let's head back to your place, I want your pussy" - Damn, this babe was bad - I was mesmerized, I stood up, paid the bartender for the drinks and quietly slipped out of the club into the streets leaving my friends behind, flagged down a cab and we both were on our way to my place. No Time!!!

CHAPTER SIX – TWO YEARS LATER

My name is Edith and I identify as Curious.

Janet and I got to my place 10 minutes later, we had already began making out in the hallway which led to my apartment - she kept moaning softly and being an emotional softie - it was exciting to watch and I liked teasing her with my tongue.

Once the door to my apartment flew open, we broke off the kiss and Janet walked into the living room with me following behind. "Your place has not changed much" she said with the cutest smile on her face, I laughed as I backed her to lock the door. I turned to meet Janet making herself comfortable on the couch. "Let me go get you a bottle of water" I said as I started to walk towards the kitchen. "No, Edith I am not thirsty, maybe a little bit for you though." I stopped in my tracks and faced her, she began taking off her clothes and I rushed to stop her.

"Janet, if we are going to do this, we can't do it here, I don't feel like I am respecting you if I make you strip down on my couch, let's go to the bedroom" She looked surprised I said that but said nothing, her smile said everything though - "After you then" she said, finally finding her voice.

"Take off your clothes, one by one \- I want to admire your body" I said as I sat down on the bed to watch her sensual strip-tease, Janet wasted no time and I liked her for that, she knew what she wanted and was always ready to go for it. She was slowly becoming an intriguing woman to me.

Her body was mesmerizing, she had the right amount of boobs and ass, just the way I liked it and her nipples were already hard, she had been holding it in for a while. "Open your legs" I murmured, I then traced my fingers to her pussy, she was really wet, she had really been holding it in. I needed to taste her juice so I began to finger her as she stood, legs open. She began to moan, not taken her eyes off me. She was a very confident lover and even I needed to understand if she was an experienced lesbian or curious like me not wanting any tags because we were not really sure labels were for us.

I felt some of her warm juice slide down my two fingers teasing her pussy and pulled them out for a taste, she tasted awesome. I then stood up to kiss her, I spanked her ass a few times then I gently led her to the bed. Removing my own clothes, I saw Janet's eyes scan my body, I felt kind of weird but heck I was horny and we both wanted this.

"Have you ever been with a woman Janet?" I asked without thinking. "No, you will be my first woman" I was shocked to hear this but I had no time to dig deep, maybe after I would but not now, all I wanted right now was to please and be pleased by Janet. I began scissor fucking Janet, she moaned into the sheets, her hands gripped the sheets as she struggled not to scream, when I felt how wet she had become, I sucked on her while playing with her nipples, I could tell it drove her crazy. When I had filled my mouth with all of her juice I began to kiss her, she licked the rest of her juice from my mouth, she was such a baddie.

Next, I went all 69 on her, once I placed my pussy over her mouth, like a good doggie she began to lick, her first tongue strokes were tender but as she got used to the taste, she began to suck and tongue fuck me as well, damn she was bad. I moaned as I continued sucking on her and fingering her at intervals, I intensified my strokes and I felt her go weak under my touch, she needed to know I was the dominant, her mouth had stopped licking me so I rubbed my pussy on her face and she picked up where she left off, we both climaxed together, it was such an intimate feeling.

As we laid in bed, I caressed Janet who lay beside me. After having only Lana, two years later, I find another woman in my arms, it felt strange and I did not know if Janet wanted more from this or if she was simply content with our little sexcapade. I had a lot of questions to get off my chest but Janet had fallen fast asleep - tomorrow was another day, holding her close, I also drifted off to sleep.

CHAPTER SEVEN – EDITH, YOUR DECISION IS NOW

My name is Janet and I identify as straight.

I have always been straight, whenever I dream about my wedding, I think of me in my white gown and my husband in his stunning tux but the day I met Edith, changed my life. That morning I had just come back from my leave and everyone was buzzing about the new girl from Nigeria. Sarah had said she was pretty intelligent and very good at solving tech related issues so I was itching to meet with her, you know rub minds together, basic nerd girl stuff.

I saw her and I was completely mesmerized, she was indeed a splendid sight. How could a Nigerian be this pretty, she was smallish but tomboyish, her big nerdy frame sat well on her small nose and her hands were laced with several goth looking rings, she looked like a mystery and I found myself get really nervous around her, I found myself avoiding her.

That did not work out for too long though - one day when I least expected it, she walked up to me and said 'Hi' - that was the other thing I found drawing me in, her accent, it was so strong yet her voice so soft, I found myself stuttering to answer. 'Hey, I am Janet. Welcome to Canada' was what I managed to say as I extended my hand out to her, she smiled and my heart melted, what was she doing to me, why was she getting to me, just who was this woman that one soft smile from her had the power to toss all my reason out of the window.

She took my hands and I felt the softness of her palm. We spoke for a bit and I fell in love with how intelligent and delicate she seemed. Nothing prepared me for our first night together, she completely took charge, she tossed me around like the amateur that I was, I knew she had laid her hands on other women, even if I did not know who those women were, I knew of one she had not completely gotten over, Lana.

I would give anything to have Edith to myself, I had to figure out a way to help her heal fast. My roses had started doing the job and I could only hurry things up before she got in contact with Lana again. I snuggled up to her in bed, she smelt of manly perfume, everything about her drew me in and I was unashamed, I accepted my feelings for this woman without a care in the world, this was the first time I ever felt any feeling other than a platonic one for a female friend - this feeling was new, it was rich, I loved the feeling. I did not mind being gay if it meant I could have Edith.

I woke up alone in bed that morning, Edith was probably working, turning back to sleep, I heard plates and spoons jingle. Soon enough Edith was walking through the door with a nicely arranged plate of bacon and eggs for breakfast. I looked up at her through my very sleepy eyes.

'Those smell nice Edith' I said, 'I know. They are for you' she said as she hinted that I sit up to have breakfast, I felt my cheeks get flustered. The food tasted decent, I knew then that if something serious were to become of Edith and I, I will need to be the cook in the relationship but I had to admit, I appreciated her effort. 'This taste's super good Edith, thank you' I said as I pouted my lips, without hesitation Edith bent down to give me a peck - I had not expected it, but it warmed my heart.

We were done having breakfast and both lazied in bed. 'Hey Edith, why did you and Lana break up again?' as soon as I had asked I felt Edith stiffen beside me. 'Why do you want to know Janet?' she asked, her voice suddenly cold. 'Well, I want to be a part of your life so bad that I want to help you get over Lana. You can only get your healing when you talk about it' I hoped my really lame explanation got my question a pass in Edith's sudden cold books.

I felt her peck my cheeks and then let out a sigh. ' Well, I had a decision to make - it was either her or a life of sadness, I chose the other and she left. I betrayed her' her voice had grown weak and I sat up to comfort her. 'No, you are done crying over your mistakes Edith' I said wiping off the tears that fell from her cheeks. 'You can only do one thing now, make sure you make decisions that won't hurt those who care deeply about you' I said and watched Edith stare at me with the softest eyes I had ever seen her with.

'So, what decision will you take this beautiful morning? Edith, your decision is now' I said still staring into her eyes. 'I would have said I needed some time to think about this because I don't know if I am completely over Lana yet but I really need to move on and if seeing where we could go would change things, I am willing to try' I was the happiest person in the world and I leaned in for a kiss, we made out and got under the sheets - we had all day to take turns on ourselves, Edith especially took great care to teach me the mysteries of lesbian sex and I too, a keen learner was super eager to learn.

CHAPTER EIGHT – TO LET HER GO

My name is Edith and I identify as bi-curious

Maybe Janet was right, I really needed to let her go. I deserved happiness too and if Janet was the future in my path, I was certainly not going to mess things up like I did with Lana. With Janet gone from my apartment later that day, I took my time to bring out everything that reminded me of Lana and put them in the store. Maybe it was high time I too forgot the past and moved on. Lana was never coming back anyways so it would be a shame to keep holding on when I wasn't being held on to.

I was going to make sure I treated Janet right - she really did care about me and I was not going to be blind to efforts made by people who loved me anymore. I made up my mind to not hold back, I was away from Nigeria atleast, I did not have to hide anymore, I did not have to pretend I was who I wasn't. I may not identify as lesbian but I had loved a woman once and it was my best experience with love so far.

I knew I still had to figure a way to keep things undercover anytime I visited Nigeria though, I could not afford to be found out - it could cost me my job, as they say, when in Rome behave like the Romans and when at home, behave as you like. So, I had to shuttle between two personalities - the one I showed family and friends in the motherland, the other, I showed to Janet and the rest of Calgary who instead of show dread, appreciated and even complimented this part of myself.

Janet's call brought me back to reality - it was nice to have someone thinking about me somewhere. I picked it up and with a smile on my face I spoke into the receiver; "Hey, Janet. Are you home?", "Yes, baby. I am and I am already missing you." I laughed, probably the first time I had really laughed in a really long time "Me too Janet."

"You know what is weird, Edith?" She asked, "What, Janet?" I asked curious. "Well, yesterday we were just colleagues and today we are girlfriends" She answered. "Yeah it is a rush but heck, it is not weird, it is beautiful. You are an awesome woman Janet" I replied, Janet made me happy, as a colleague and as someone I was attracted to. "Just so you know though, I am not letting go of you easily" She said, "That is super cute. Don't worry I am here to stay" I affirmed her.

"No ghosting, no cheating?" She asked in a high pitch like tone. "Definitely no ghosting and cheating. I would just want to ask you to do one thing now that we are together" I said, "Anything for you baby" she replied. "Well, I would appreciate it if we could keep work and our relationship life separate. In other words, be professional" I said, "Hmmm, that would be something because it is really hard to resist you but I would try." she replied.

We spoke for a little while after that, talking about this and that - I felt so good after the call, Janet was making me feel all mushy like again - she was definitely high spirited and I would do anything to make sure she never got hurt by me because of my ignorance or selfishness - I was going to do everything in my power to protect us.

It was weird, meeting formally just yesterday, having sex and becoming girlfriends today but she was not entirely a stranger to me. Plus, I had also met Lana is much similar situations and things had worked out just fine. I was not taking chances or questioning shit anymore, I was down for the whole mushy ride with Janet. Everything I found difficult to do with Lana back in Nigeria, I was going to make it all up by doing it all for Janet from exotic dates to small picnics and sensual dances, I was going to do it all.

Outside of work, I was going to be super-hot for her. One nightstands with women never worked out for me, both women I had been intimate with had become my lovers - not that I was complaining, far from that, it felt good to know that being scum was a personal thing. Not all men were scum but most were and being in their position - being the partner dominating, I felt I was more considerate of women's feelings, I tried to put myself in their shoes whenever issues were rising hot. Despite my mistakes, I was going to be a good woman to Janet.

My phone vibrated, it was a mail from the office. I was to design a website for a small scale business - I was glad I finally had something interesting to do, instead of procrastinating like any developer would, boredom got my hands itching to work. Picking up my laptop from the center table in the sitting room, I began to type in the order I would usually begin my HTML5 page design accompanied with CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery, the database and back end setup will come later.

<!DOCTYPE html>

<html lang='en>

<html>

<head>

<title> </title>

</head>

<body>

<div>

</div>

</body>

</html>

I kept typing until 7pm, I was almost done with the backend integration and possibly almost done with the site design, I just had to check some slight errors I had noticed in the windows console. After some thirty more minutes of fingers hitting it with the keypad, I decided to stroll out for some fresh air. The evening sky was beautiful, some shops were closing up and people were changing shifts, I took in a deep breath, I probably needed a hot cup of coffee from one of the stores close by.

I had only walked a few steps when I spotted a familiar face - it was Lana, she was driving a pink Kia Picanto, I lost all my senses and started chasing after the car. "Lana!" "Lana!!" was all I heard myself scream as I ran into the night, as fast as my slender legs could carry me.

CHAPTER NINE – SOLA HAS TWO SIDES

My name is Lana and I Identify as Lesbian.

As I strode into the massive living room of what was our childhood home, I rubbed my palms together. I was going to be coming out to my parents - I hoped they would be ready to have a not so straight daughter.

Upon entering the living room, I saw my dad seated at our large family table and my mother frantically calling the name of our head maid - Laura, who had been with us for 15 years and had been my nanny while I was growing up.

'Mom, Dad! I am back home' I said placing a smile on my face and opening my arms wide for a hug, my mom came running as I wrapped my hands around dad. 'Wow, darling. I thought you made it clear you were liking Nigeria' my dad said, my mom had already started greasing my cheeks with kisses. 'Well dad, Nigeria and I are over. I have no reason to be there anymore' I replied, opening one of the freshly baked sausage rolls which lay in one of the many dishes placed in front of my father.

'This is strange. I remember the last time we spoke, you told me you were considering staying there for a little while longer. What changed all that?' my mom started, maybe it was time to actually tell them. 'Well mom, I met someone...' 'Wow darling, that is great. I don't see any ring on your finger, who is he?' my mom said in excitement cutting me short. 'Mom, you see that is the thing - this person is not a he but a she?' I replied, scanning her face for her next reaction. 'A she you say? A friend? A colleague?' my dad asked this time, my mom just stood there as if chorusing my dad's question 'Umm! No dad. My partner. I was dating a woman in Nigeria' I finally said it all. 'You were dating a woman?' my dad asked suddenly looking like he had lost interest eating all that was displayed in front of him. 'Yes dad, dating. I really loved her dad but I had to leave her when she made it clear she did not want to be with me' tears had begun rolling down my eyes.

I felt my mother's warm arms wrap around me, my father had stood up as well and kissed my cheek. 'Daughter, your decision to love a woman comes as a shock to us but we love you regardless' my dad said, his words made me cry a lot more - it felt good being able to show this part of me to my parents and I was grateful they were understanding. However, I knew I was lucky; Edith's parents were not as open minded - I knew she had every reason to not want to commit but a little part of me wished we could have a little chance. 'It is her loss dear, our daughter is one bright and caring child and I understand what goes on in Nigeria with homophobia so I hope you can still reach out to this your friend and help her through her confusion' my mother said, I hugged her tight. ' Thank you so much mom.'

Sola walked in on us, Priye walking in behind him. I smiled when I saw her, Priye was definitely not Edith but she was in love with me, patient with me and there for me when I needed her. More importantly, Sola who has two sides, the beast and my actual friend, had no objections of Priye and I being together. He had seriously changed his attitude towards me and cared about me more after he discovered me in the bath tub with my wrist slit some years back, I guess I scared him a little too much back then - he had now become a little too protective of me.

'Hey Sola, who is the lovely lady you have come here with?' my mom asked. Sola and my mom were weirdly close, I did not understand it but neither did I question it. 'I am guessing you should be asking Lana about that ma'am ' Sola replied. 'Mom' I started, gesturing to Priye to come forward 'Meet Priye, my girlfriend, she has been amazing' Priye smiled at my mom and greeted. 'Is she also Nigerian?' my mother asked 'No, Ghanaian Ma'am' Priye replied. 'Come join us for some tea. Let us leave my husband - he needs the alone time.' Mom said winking at my dad who gave her a slight smile. We all left the large sitting room and headed for the study.

'Your mom took everything well' Priye whispered in my ears, giving my palm a warm kiss - I blushed a little. Priye was a wonderful woman and sex with her was also great. Although I never pictured her being the one I would need to introduce to my parents, it was happening and I needed to be happy, I was slowly healing and thinking about Edith less and less everyday.

I took our little break up so hard, I remember the first thing I did when I figured out that Edith's silence was a response in itself was to quit my job and stay hurled up in my room for days crying. The tears became heavier when I found out she was getting married - I felt like a sharp knife had pierced through my chest and was having a field day stabbing at my insides. A short while later, Priye stumbled into my life, she had been at the pharmacy shop, I had gone to get some drugs to tone down the fever I suddenly felt crawl up within me after several months of being depressed, sleeping less and not eating at all - I had cried myself to sickness.

I remember looking at myself in the mirror and seeing the mess of a human I was but I didn't care. However, before I left, I decided to slide on a pair of dark shades so that I wouldn't attract so much attention. Priye had been out to get Panadol drugs for her recurring migraines when she spotted me. For some reason, after I left the store Priye kept following me, I didn't notice her because I was a shadow of myself and being a shadow of oneself meant not being mentally present or aware of one's surroundings - I was walking but not walking because thoughts of Edith kept staring at me and firing hurtful darts at my heart. Priye helped me to the car after she had seen me stubble and wobble a few times and rather than let me drive offered to take me home in her car. According to her, she felt a connection with me from the moment I had walked into the store, whatever her reason was, she was one of the reasons why I was able to hold a part of myself together now.

When we were done chit-chatting with mom, we headed to my room. At the stairs, I kissed Priye. Sola was still behind us 'Umm! Bodyguard still here by the way' he said as we broke off our kiss 'Don't you have somewhere else to be Sola?' I asked a little pressed. 'Yeah ladies, I was just about to excuse myself. I have an appointment with my bo... sorry lady friend' he said 'Uhuun' I sarcastically replied, he gave a smirk and walked towards the large corridor leading to the main exit of the house.

'I have no idea why Sola has become so protective and brotherly' I said facing Priye. 'Sola loves you, I don't know what exactly he sees you as - a sister, a lover or both but I know he cares deeply about you and does not want to see you get hurt' Priye said cupping my face in her palm. 'You look beautiful today by the way' Priye ended with a smile. 'Why don't you tell me how beautiful I look when we get upstairs' I said letting out a little giggle. 'Your wish my queen is my command' Priye said as we both raced ourselves upstairs for a raunchy time together.

CHAPTER TEN – DWINDLING STORIES

My name is Priye and I identify as Lesbian.

My love for Lana stems deep. Meeting her at the pharmacy is one day I will forever be grateful for. Her full shape was distracting; she was the total package. However, something struck me about her, I could not quite place it but she seemed off.

I inched closer to her, hoping to get a better look at her eyes through her dark shades and it was then I saw it - her eyes were swollen - this beautiful half caste lady had been crying. I decided to follow her out of the pharmacy to the parking lot where I was sure she had her car parked. As I followed closely, I hoped I was not wrong - I prayed for a sign that she was fine so I could turn back and be on my way back home but maybe a part of me was also attracted to her body because I stayed there watching her, helping her stand when I saw her wobble and offered to drive her home in my car.

'Thank you' she said once in my car, I let out a sigh. 'It is not a big deal. You seem like you are having a tough time' I said. 'Well...' she started as she finally took off her shades '... more like a terrible couple of months' she finally said running her hands through her hair. 'Why? Work? or a relationship gone sour?' I probed, I hoped my probing would get her to talk more so she could atleast relax, but a part of me also sought to know just a little bit more about this beautiful light skinned babe who sat down so casually as I maneuvered through the busy Lagos roads, luckily traffic was minimal.

She had already told me where she was going and luckily for me, her location was just a stone throw from my own apartment complex - it would be easy to come check on her some other time or to even make a new friend. I took my time to scan her from head to toe, she didn't come off as queer. She probably had a lot of guys scrambling for her attention - this thought got me a little pissed and I clenched the steering wheel a little tighter.

'Are you homophobic or whatever?' she had suddenly asked, her accent bouncing sweetly in the air conditioned car. 'No, I am not. Why do you ask?' her question had thrown me off balance, was it that obvious that I was lesbian? It couldn't be, hiding that side of me was a specialty I knew all too well. 'Well, the reason I have been so messed up has been because I am kind of just getting out of very bitter breakup with a woman I felt was my soul mate' I found myself bringing the car to an interrupted halt. 'Wait, you are saying that you are...' I started but Lana was quick to cut me short ' A lesbian? Yes, I am a lesbian.' I smiled for a brief moment before finally saying 'I know how that must feel. I have been in your shoes'

'My shoes? You mean you have also dated a girl?' Lana asked. 'I have only dated girls, I have never felt any form of attraction to the male species - they seem like a lot of work' I replied, Lana giggled softly - her laugh had so much melody that I wanted to dance to it. 'Hmmmm. So you are lesbian and Nigerian' she said nodding her head as if slowly processing everything I had just told her. 'Well, not really. I am Ghanaian, when I introduced myself earlier I probably did not have the time to get detailed. My full name is Afafa Priye - I choose to withhold my surname for now' I said. 'Why?' Lana asked suddenly interested in what I had to say.

'Well, because I am looking for a way to change my surname. My dad is too strict. I came out to him two years ago and he banished me from my home town - he suddenly changed and everyone in my family turned their backs on me calling me cursed, an ingrate and a problem child. Those were tough days' I said 'Interesting to see an African who has come out to their parents in Africa' Lana replied, I could see her eyes become clearer now, like she felt she could use this piece of information to save someone.

I laughed as we rounded up the corner to her apartment. She got out of the car and rested her hands on the car window 'We all have dwindling stores Priye, I am glad I got to meet you, you would not mind us talking some more would you?' 'Not at all Lana, I am way ahead of you. Here, have my card' I slid her my card and as she reached out to collect it, I slightly caressed her hand. 'I just want you to know that everything will be okay. Things may look shitty and gloomy right now but I promise you Lana things will get better' I said in the most reassuring tone I could manage, Lana managed to put up a smile, it was weak but it was there and in that moment, that was all that really mattered to me.

After that day, we began a journey through friendship. Lana and I spoke all the time, we both had common interests in photography and travel. I invited her for a lot of movie dates and she made amazing meals when we had sleep overs. I was mesmerized by Lana's free spirit - certainly her ex did not deserve her. Less than a month later, we had become very accustomed to our schedules and soon after, a night of drinks had turned into a very steamy night - I had always dreamt of holding her hour glass shape, Lana's breasts were full, her eyes while I fingered her watered out of pure passion, she was a baddie and when she begged me to fuck her in the ass, I was shook - she was a baddie.

I did all I could to make sure I took my time exploring Lana's body, she deserved to be explored because she was a masterpiece. That night changed everything for us, I found myself asking Lana to be my girlfriend a week later when we went out for late night Friday chills - she had been ecstatic and kissed me. Obviously we went to her apartment to celebrate the new turn in our relationship, I was glad she was ready to move on and that she choose me to protect her.

However, nothing prepared me for what happened the next morning - I woke up to find Lana in a tub filled with water, her wrists slit and beside her, pictures of her and her ex. I didn't know who to call, after calling the hospital for an emergency response, I proceeded to clean up the pictures, I did not want people having questions that could out us to the rest of society.

When Lana had been stabilized, I got access to her phone and dialed the first number on her emergency contact list, a certain Sola. He arrived within the hour, I was surprised he even came at all - the stories Lana had told me about him did not make him come off as someone who cared if Lana died or not – it kind of felt like they had a "fuck buddy" type of relationship, not one where they both got to stay the night and wake up in eachothers arms the next morning.

Sola stayed by her side all through the night and assisted me in going to her house for change of clothes all through the two weeks Lana spent under intensive care at the clinic seeing as she had lost a lot of blood.

Two weeks had passed and Lana had started talking. I told her that I was travelling to Australia and felt she needed the time away from everything for a while, she agreed to make that move with me - I was scared she would run into her ex who could make her relapse once more. My thoughts on the morning Lana was to be discharged was interrupted by Sola who had come to also see Lana get discharged, it was obvious he had not been getting much sleep.

We all went to the mall to get some groceries for the week before we left for Australia. Sola offered to chauffeur us around. At the mall my worst dreams came to life, Lana met Edith and she looked like someone who like Lana was not completely over her ex - I felt my chest tighten. I managed to stop them from talking so much - while Sola and I waited by the car, Lana excused herself to the toilet. It was then I told Sola all that had happened inside.

I did not allow Lana leave my sight after that day. All her things had been brought over to my place, I was taking care of her now till our tickets were sorted and we got the green light to go. Sola had been of much help during this time, I really appreciated his presence. That Tuesday afternoon, I stood on the porch, waiting for Sola who told me he wanted to see me for something urgent, he had specifically requested that Lana not be around, so I had sent her for a spa day.

Sola arrived like someone had been chasing him. His driving was rough and I wondered what the problem could be. He ran up to me with a book like package.

'Priye, I just thought you needed to see this. The security guys at Lana's said that they got the delivery today when I went over to check if she had gotten mail from her parents like she had requested I do early this morning' Sola said handing me a book, on the body was written Dear Loveless \- 'Who owns this? A gift?' I asked confused, the book certainly did not look like much. 'It is a book from Edith, Lana's ex. Probably a diary of some sort - all I know is that Lana must not get a hold of this else things between the both of you may get difficult' I gulped, this Edith lady was beginning to get on my last nerve. 'I understand' I finally said. 'But Sola, I really think you need to be the one to keep it, she may easily sniff it out if it is kept with me. We practically live together now' I thoughtfully said. 'You are right. I will keep it far away from her' Sola gave me an understanding look. 'Great. Thank you very much' I said, knowing now that Edith was not planning on relenting - I had to hurry our travel process and documentation - the earlier we got as far away from Edith as possible, the better for Lana and our relationship.

CHAPTER ELEVEN – DIM LIGHTS

My name is Sola and I Identify as Pansexual because ain't Bisexuality a little too confining for a black hunk like myself?

Yes, I said it - I love me some black beauties and misters but I really don't care who you are, your ability to arouse my sensuality is of topmost concern. I have known Lana a very long time and I have loved her all of those times \- she never notices how much of myself I give to her, probably because I am terrible at showing love and treat her like trash but hey sometimes she can be a little too tender and I need her tougher.

The day Priye, Lara's new fuck buddy called to inform me Lana had tried to kill herself, that shit broke me. The look on her face as she lay almost lifeless in the hospital tore me apart some more, I couldn't take it - I left, I needed to clear my head - I went out for a cold drink at one of the bars in Lekki phase 1. Fast forward 2 hours later and I was having an orgy with a couple who happened to both be Bisexual - funny how Nigerian's do a lot of shit and still hide under their moral standards right - but heck for a brief second, I felt I had gathered pieces of myself together, I had to - I knew I was still going to return to Lana's side.

My thoughts continued as the dim lights gave way to the husband's asshole, I stuck my dick into it and rammed him silly, the husband was such a whore - nigga was legit taking dick from me and still giving it to his wife all at the same time. It was weird but hot - I had no say in the couple's weird fetish and besides I was down for whatever at this point.

When I was done taking care of business, I returned to Lana's side relieving Miss fuck buddy off her duty post. You see Lana may think she loves these women but that is because I am still giving her time to have fun - when the time is right, all I need to do is swoop in and take charge. As Nigerians say, if you can't win her over, you can definitely win her over through her parents.

Years and years of watching Lana grow from that shy girl who lived in the largest mansion in the entire area to this mature sexy bootang who made her own decisions and her own money was a huge turn on, she was to be wifed and I was counting down the days till when I could take action. Lana's face was motionless as she slept, I hoped she was dreaming good dreams, running my index finger gently through her face, I got up from the chair I had grown bored sitting in and kissed her - her lips were still soft, soft and moist.

The kiss took me back to the first time we kissed, that day I had been out playing soccer with the guys at school and Lana had been trying to reach me - she knew I would be at soccer practice so she came there to look for me, she had been running so her hair looked a bit roughed up, her eyes seems tired and her clothe seemed out of sorts - I wondered why she had been running and she immediately brought up her 'A' in calculus, I had been tutoring her because she seemed to be struggling with the subject - I was overjoyed.

I carried her up and spun her round and round. Then I looked left and right, saw no one coming and kissed her. She kissed me back and we stood there for minutes kissing. She was not my first but she felt like my first - I was motionless and breathless after the kiss and Lana being Lana, just smiled it off and continued telling her story of how she had passed the Calculus exams without even a thought in the world.

When Lana was better and had been discharged to Priye's place, I decided to help her check for her mails when her security guard told me about Edith's diary. After an agreement with the fuck buddy, I kept the journal in one of my old boxes which contained memories of Lana and I.

After we had arrived Australia, and Lana had begun recuperating, I suggested to Lana that she needed to go back home to London permanently. 'But what of Nigeria.' She had asked 'Nigeria will be fine with or without you. I know it's not Nigeria you are really bothered about though' I said with a knowing smirk - Lana was so predictable, she still loved that toxic woman who put her own selfishness ahead of her partner's happiness.

'I know you feel I should hate Edith but I really can't bring myself to do it. I have a feeling she had a reason for leaving me. Sola you needed to have seen her face at the mall the day we met. She seemed out of sorts, she was still looking yummy and if not for Priye who stood there reminding me why I needed a lot of self will and self-control, I would have run back into her arms, shamelessly begging for another chance' Lana said plainly stuffing her mouth with a mint bubble gum she had been fondling with as she spoke earlier.

'Lana one thing is sure, Edith never respected you. A partner who respects the other partner does not ghost that partner only to want to get married to some rich ass boss' I said. 'How do you know she got married to her boss Sola, even I did not know he was her boss' Lana said, I cleared my throat \- of course I knew, that little wrench Edith had explained everything in her journal and I knew for sure that the moment Lana read the journal, she would go flying back into the arms of the one person who hurt her the most - I am not trying to shift some sort of blame since I too never treated Lana too kindly but hey I was ready to make amends for every damn time I was an asshole.

'I guessed. Lucky guess right?' I said hoping I sounded convincing enough. 'Yeah, real lucky guess' Lana said before she continued talking, I managed to steer the conversation away from Edith and her little annoying self and soon enough Lana was giggling the moment I began telling her some of my terrible experiences living in Lagos.

CHAPTER TWELVE – BOTH OUR FIRES

My name is Edith and Lana and I seem to be getting married.

Why was Lana standing in front of me in a beautiful white silk wedding gown, had I somehow blanked out and skipped a few years? or was this really happening. Her smile felt real, her face seemed so close to mine, was I going too crazy or was this simply a dream. I tried slapping myself to wake up but I found myself still standing beside Lana. I had not even taken the time to look at what I was wearing - I was matched with Lana in a white fitted tux.

The wedding ceremony was a small one with only friends and family. Speaking of family - I was able to see my parents seated and smiling at me, I did not understand how this was going on but being with Lana, holding her here and now I decided to forget about all the strange things happening around me and simply enjoy the moment.

We had our wedding dance after the ceremony. Lana had a very shiny tear dropped ring sitting perfectly on her beautiful finger, I kissed her hands as we danced. She giggled that her usual giggle and when our dance ended, our friends and family joined us in dancing. The wedding had taken place on a small beach, a beach I recently visited on my first week in Calgary on a team dinner.

Watching Lana happy made my heart bounce, we were finally together, both our fires burning bright and everyone was there to celebrate with us. I could not find Priye anywhere and a part of me was crazy happy, that was one less rival to worry about. Sola was there but he stood there seeming happy, he was having a conversation with a blonde chick, I let out a soft laugh.

'I see you are happy ey' Lana said with a warm smile on her face. 'Why wouldn't I be happy? I am the happiest woman on planet earth at the moments. Everything finally seems to be going according to plan. I have got you, my parents seem happy and our happily ever after seems not so far-fetched after all' I replied, lifting Lana up into the air and spinning her round and round mid-air, she let out joyful giggles as her beautiful frame towered above me. When I let her down, she flew into my arms and kissed me briefly. 'I am also very happy. Finally, we are Mrs. Lana and Edith under Law, oath and God' Lana said.

'God?' I asked, suddenly looking around. Did God really accept our union - were we blaspheming, were we ingrates, were we the dysfunctional creation, the creation which had strayed and now dined freely with the devil? 'Yes baby, God. He created us, so he must have known we would fall in love with eachother, damn the consequences and get married. He would never have allowed all this happen if he didn't give a damn about us, would he?' Lana said as if making sense of my thoughts. 'I guess you are right' I said kissing her forehead.

The wedding was over and we were heading to our vacation home - life seemed as sweet as breeze, Lana's hand softly caressed mine as I drove. I knew she wanted some attention and I tried my best to speed things up whilst making sure I didn't surpass the speed limit; we did not want speeding tickets. Just as we drove on, my mind went blank. Lana suddenly began drifting far away from me, I tried to fight the darkness but it would not budge, it seemed bigger than me - and soon enough, it finally swallowed me up.

When I came to, I found myself in a room. I was drenched in water, like I had just been out swimming in very stormy waters, the white gown I now wore was torn and muddy - some seconds ago I had been with Lana, getting married to the love of my life. Just as I thought on, I realized my hands had been suddenly bound together, I started working to set myself free, I needed to get to Lana. Maybe I had been kidnapped and it was possible whoever had kidnapped me also held Lana hostage - I did not have the luxury of time to wallow in thoughts which could not solve my current issue in this mess I suddenly found myself in.

'You know' I suddenly heard a voice echo '... It is no use trying Edith' the voice sounded so close yet so far away 'Who are you? And what are you planning to do to me' I screamed back. 'Me? You are the one who has done all of this to yourself.' the voice shot back at me, it sounded angry 'Myself? What the hell are you on about. I don't have time for jokes whoever you are' I yelled 'Whoever I am? I am you Edith, the part of you who has balls that is' I suddenly saw myself walk out of the darkness, this part of me was dressed in a simple black dress and blue snickers - she had so much sexual appeal, she couldn't be me.

'How can I be talking to myself?' I asked suddenly scared 'If this is a prank guys, you got me' I said, suddenly trying to force a laugh. 'A prank? I wish this were a prank Edith' my voice was saying back to me, she stood less than a mile away - it seemed like she was assessing me with utmost disgust for my person 'You annoy me so much Edith. Look at your life, you found the perfect girl and you let her go. For what; fear, curiosity, anxiety - you are simply an idiot and you have the audacity to still dream of her, to still want a wedding with her? You disgust me' she said, her voice thick but yet watery. I laughed 'I disgust you? Sorry to disappoint you dear but you are me' I said in the most sarcastic way I could manage.

'A part of you' the voice shot back 'The part of you that realises that you have made too many mistakes, that knows its best you die instead of coming back to cause more harm' The voice finally said as she started backing away into the darkness 'Die? Come back? What the fuck do you mean?' I yelled 'Ohh, you will see' the voice said in a silent echo as it finally faded away. 'What do you mean? Come back here' I yelled once more, the darkness began swallowing me up again, I couldn't fight it - I had blanked out once more.
CHAPTER THIRTEEN – FORGIVENESS

My name is Lana and Edith does not look too good.

'Sorry ma'am. She seems to be in a critical condition. The car that hit her had her hit her head real hard. She is in a coma, we have to hope she comes out of it soon' the doctor said when they had managed to stabilize Edith, I could only struggle to keep my feet stable on the ground for a few seconds before I let it give way - I fainted.

Some few hours ago, as I drove past a certain street in Calgary, having come to Canada for a brief holiday - I felt like someone was yelling my name, but who could possibly have known me in this part of town. Not too long after, a car lost control and rammed into mine, my car had been badly damaged but I managed to get out of the mess with no scratch on me \- I however, spotted a woman not too far away from the car that had hit me, she lay in a pool of blood. As I ran towards her, I dialed the ambulance.

On getting close, I swore I saw a familiar face, my voice went weak almost immediately 'Edith?' she was the one. Edith was barely breathing, she was dying, blood gushed out from her side with reckless abandon - I screamed at the 911 operators to get here as soon as possible while I followed some of the first aid procedures they gave over the phone. Two minutes later, the ambulance arrived, Edith had been lifted in on a stretcher and I had followed them in the back as they tried to check her pulse and start her heartbeat again - I cried all through the ride.

At the hospital, the nurse had also wanted to check on me seeing as I had just had my car hit hard by another car, I told her I was fine. I had to be fine, I prayed in my heart for Edith - I knew everyone around me hated her for some reason but I did not, I still loved her more than I loved anyone or anything else, she still held that special place in my heart.

After hearing the news about her condition, I fainted and when I came to, I found myself admitted into the hospital. I saw Priye by my side, Sola too had just entered into the room with two cups of coffee, probably for Priye and himself. 'Hey, relax. The nurses told us you fainted' Priye said, trying to restrain me from sitting up, I stared at her for a while before nodding, she was right, I also needed to get better myself. 'What happened to you. They said you were involved in a car accident' Sola said, with a slight smile around his face. 'Well, wasn't it great we all decided to come to Calgary and take this much needed break together' I said trying to change the subject 'Can you not try to change the subject and tell us what happened and why you seem like everything is far from being alright' Priye said firmly. Damn her for always knowing when I was not fine.

'Well, I did get hit but nothing happened to me' I found myself crying 'Hey, what is wrong?' Sola asked showing concern 'It was Edith, she was badly hit by the other car' I finally said, I started crying hard now 'The doctor says she is in a coma, he hopes she comes out of it alive' 'Wow, that is crazy Lana' Sola said 'I never liked her cus of what she did to you but mehn ain't life a bitch' he patted my hair. Priye did not say a word, she simply consoled me - I felt bad for Priye, she had tried so hard to measure up to Edith but tonight she was not simply not the one in my heart, I felt a part of my heart had been ripped apart, the part of my heart I always kept warm waiting for Edith.

'I am sorry Priye. Talking about Edith must be annoyi---' I started 'Shhhh. It is okay. You once loved her and we all have to pray for her too. Hopefully she gets better' Priye said, I hugged her tighter, I appreciated the fact that Priye could understand.

Forgiveness towards Edith came naturally that night. All I could do was commit her soul into God's hand and ask that he bring her back to me. I had always had my reservations about God accepting us as his children. Being a lesbian did not make me a bad person - murderers, perverts and sociopaths identified as straight. Castigating people just because of their sexual preference made no sense to me. I could only hope and pray God's love shone to our side since society made it clear we were outcasts and God could not love us as equally as he loved straight sinners.

I went in to Edith's ward when Priye and Sola went home for a change of clothes, they were going to be back in the morning to check up on how I was doing. The doctors still felt I needed to be watched, they felt I had suffered trauma because of the car accident and wanted to be sure I was really fit to be discharged. Edith lay beautiful, I took in her familiar scent. Sitting beside her on the chair, I took her warm hands in mine. 'You are still as beautiful as ever baby' I hoped she could hear me from that dark place. 'I need you to come back to me. I am at a place where I can listen to your explanations now' I paused and kissed her cheek. 'I need you to fight, I need you to come back to me'

'Hey, who are you?' I heard a voice say from behind. She was a pretty dark lady and held a thick sweater and coffee in one hand and flowers in the other. 'I should be asking you that' I said, she didn't need to know who I was. 'I am Janet, Edith's girlfriend. Now just who the fuck are you?' She said fiercely, I smiled - had Edith moved on so easily? 'I am Lana. Nice to meet you' I saw her eyes widen as we both stared ourselves down. I suddenly knew what I wanted - I somehow knew that maybe I would always have to be the fighter, maybe Edith was the weak one and maybe I was the one who needed to fight for us. I was going to do all I could to win Edith back, whoever this bitch was, wasn't my concern. All I knew was that Edith was mine, I could not stand seeing her with one more person who was not me.

All these years, I had always been the good girl. Not anymore, I was going to get my baby back even if it meant breaking more than a million hearts to get to my goal. BAD GIRL LANA WAS HERE TO STAY.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN – BEST TIMING

My name is Janet and just who the fuck does this bitch think she is.

So this was the Lana, Edith had been slowly killing herself for? I found myself clenching my fist, wasn't this just the best timing. I had a lot of things to say to this wrench, how could she just magically appear out of nowhere at the precise moment Edith was hurt and in a comma. Lana stared at me as if accessing me, I could tell she was well to do, her hair was long but curly, she was light-skin and could almost be thought to be Latina but she had a certain African vibe to her as well, I knew she was mixed race almost immediately.

'So, you are the Lana who keeps hurting Edith' I finally said. She just stared at me like the obvious bitch she was. She pissed me the hell off, I could have sworn she gave a stupid smirk, I wished she had made it super obvious, I really wanted to wipe that smirk off her damn face with a slap. Lana suddenly looked away from me and back at Edith who lay still, the IV drips doing all they could to hold her up. She then started walking towards me, was she trying to intimidate me? I had worked so hard to get Edith to even think of dating again and I was not going to let her spoil this. She stopped two steps away from me and looked at me from head to toe and I swallowed. I was ready for any crap she was about to pull so I readied myself, mentally, emotionally and physically. You have got this Jane, I mentally told myself.

'That is why, I am here. To make it up to her, to take her back' I heard Lana say. 'Isn't it a little too late for that though?' I asked, she stood in silence for some seconds and then laughed, her laughter annoyed the hell out of me but I waited for her to finish. 'What is a little too late? Getting Edith back or never really leaving Edith's heart?' She asked 'You are late Lana, no matter how hard you try. Edith has decided to forget you; she has chosen me' I said. 'Funny thing how primitively your mind works lady. Look here, why exactly do you think Edith got hit by the car. Hmm?' She asked, that mocking look still on her face – Ugg! She fucking pissed me off.

However, I could not answer the question so I was left helpless, I stared back at her confused. I had only gotten the call letting me know Edith was at the hospital and in a very critical condition. 'I will answer it for you lady. Edith was chasing after me when she got hit. Does that sound like a woman who has left the past in the past?' She asked, before I could answer, she turned her back at me and went back to Edith's side. Giving me a look of disgust and confidence, she bent down and kissed Edith - I almost lost it. The crazy bitch in me was out, I was going to pull hairs and mess shit up if this bitch tested my patience one last time. 'I will be back Edith' she whispered, squeezing Edith's lifeless palms in hers. She then walked out of the private ward.

My legs felt weak as I fell to the floor. Why was she back? What was she doing to Edith that she got hit? Just why did life choose to give Edith so much guilt, pain and sadness? I felt the tears fall on my cheeks and wiped them away as many times as my hands would allow me. After some time, I was feeling better and I crawled to Edith's side. Forcing myself to stand, I took her hands in mine and caressed them. 'Edith, it looks like the decision is all on you now' I said, tears muffling my voice 'I just want to let you know that I love and care about you dearly. I want you to be truly happy. Nigeria isn't holding you back anymore, you can be who you really want to be here and with me.' I said bending down to kiss her too. I spent the remaining hours, just watching her and caressing her forehead.

I had work tomorrow and had to leave the hospital. As I was leaving, I saw Lana approach, she had changed into more comfortable clothing, she looked like someone ready for a night cap. I passed by her refusing to recognize her - if she was going to take care of Edith in my absence, then I really could not object to her helping the one woman I cared about. I left thinking about so many things.

Back at the office, I stared at Edith's empty desk. I remembered some of our moments together. When we had to pull all-nighters at the office, Edith always had a glass of red wine with her as she worked. She loved to have her air-pods plugged in as well and was always jamming the latest afro beats music. I closed off my mind from thoughts of Edith and focused on work.

An hour later, I needed to go smoke some sticks so I went to the balcony for some much needed fresh air as well. The sky was clear and the breeze moved in a playful rhythm, I allowed my mind drift once more to the day Edith had agreed to date me, some hours later I got the devastating news that my girlfriend had been hit by a car and was in a comma, I felt warm tears brush my cheeks again, I didn't wipe them off this time, I let them fall to the corners of my lips and smoked as I cried.

Lana's expression wasn't a joking one when she said all she said. She was ready to do whatever it took to get Edith back. She didn't care if I was in the way or not and I did not know if I had enough strength to hold Edith back from Lana.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN – BI-CURIOUS

My name is Priye and I identify as Lesbian.

Lana was taking too long. I checked my wristwatch, it was past ten. I sighed, sitting down at the counter of our large kitchen in Canada, our stay was brief, a week and we are out of here. Canada was strangely a lot warmer than London, things seemed too prim and proper here. Lana had told Sola and I to stay home, she had somehow managed to get the clear from the doctor and was discharged, she said she was already on her way back, so I waited. I took out my phone and went on my Instagram, I needed to catch up on things happening in Nigeria, when I had gotten bored looking up the latest Asoebi styles, I moved on to twitter. If you were looking for the right twitter gist in Nigeria, twitter was your plug.

Sure enough, there was drama, a lot of drama, some political, some social, some clout worthy and others bleh. One however stood out, some students in a particular university had humiliated two ladies having been caught engaging in same sex sexual relations, I stared in awe. According to the news floating around the various scattered timelines, their moans had been overheard by a passerby who took the initiative to peep and catch the two girls, the passerby a fellow girl in the hostel went to report the ladies to the university security guards who swung into action and immediately arrested both girls. The University had already released a press statement disassociating itself from the heinous act, they promised to expel the girls who had the audacity to flout the moral code of the university - Nigerians all over the TL reacted by giving the school and the informant a thumbs up, calling the girls several names, some offering to have sex with the ladies for free if they did not know what dick was about. I couldn't bear to read it anymore, Nigeria was a whore house and I was glad I didn't have to be a part of that bull crap anymore. I closed my eyes and checked the time again, it was now 11:30pm and Lana was still not back. Standing up, I walked to the electric cooker, I needed to make coffee, I had to stay up to see if Lana was fine, calls to her line had gone unattended to and I was getting a little frustrated and worried. My phone suddenly rang, dropping my mug on the table beside the cooker, I grabbed it thinking it was Lana, a bit of disappointment flooded my face when I saw it was Sola.

'Hey Sola' I said 'Hey Priye, is Lana back yet? She still isn't taking my calls' Sola said over the other line 'Umm, same here...' I heard the door downstairs open and close and went to check who it was '...Hold on for a bit Sola, I think she is back' I said, going to make sure it wasn't some intruder since I had not locked the front door. Thankfully, it was Lana, she looked tired 'Lana just got back, let's talk later' I said to Sola as I cut the call. 'Hey' I said with a little worry in my voice. 'Hey' Lana said back, bringing her face in for a kiss. After our little kiss, Lana headed straight to the room, I followed closely behind 'So, what took you so long, your highness?' I asked, she slid me a sarcastic glance and I couldn't hold back my smile. 'You know the usual, I had some impromptu thing come up. That is what I get when I am tasked with getting all these business deals closed and whatever right after getting discharged from the clinic. Ugg!' Lana complained while avoiding my eyes.

'I was just about to make some coffee but since you are home, you must be tired, let's just go straight to bed' I suggested. Lana did not say a word, instead she headed straight for her wardrobe, this was odd, she never left me hanging, not once, it felt like her mind was not in the conversation. 'Sorry Priye, I will need to head out in an hour. Just something I need to take care of' She finally said, as she brought out a small bag I supposed was for a night cap 'Care to let me in on what is going on?' I asked 'Nothing really. Just some personal stuff' Lana said tucking in some clothes into the small bag.

She was now walking towards the bathroom. 'Hey!' I yelled and she looked at me surprised, 'Priye, why are you yelling. it's almost 12am' She said in a startled voice 'I am sorry; I am just feeling a little weird about you going out this late' I said with a shrug. Lana walked up to me and gave me a kiss and for once that night looked me in the eye 'Priye, there is nothing to worry about. You worry too much' she said passing me a little smile, I smiled too kissing her briefly, Lana's soft moans got me quickly excited. When we finally broke off the kiss, she walked into the shower and I followed closely behind.

I joined her in the tub 'Priye what are you doing?' She asked, sounding a little bit confused 'Why are you getting worked up Lana? It is not like this is the first time we are taking a bath together' She kept quiet and I took the initiative to place soft kisses on her neck before moving on to licking her ears, Lana moaned, driving me crazy. In-between my fingering her after our bath, carrying ourselves to the bed, Lana said 'Priye, I need to be out of here in time. I need to go soon' I laughed 'You still have more than 30 minutes' babe. Allow me pleasure you my love' I said, sliding my tongue to her pussy and tongue fucking her, she moaned loudly now - I gave a little moan of satisfaction. Lana was one sexy babe, and I was glad I had her all to myself.

She had said Edith was Bi-curious, I still didn't see what she saw in that twat of a lady but heck I was going to make her forget all about Edith if that was what it took to have Lana all to myself. The only way to keep Lana to myself was to propose, I had already gotten the ring and everything, I just needed the perfect time, preferably before we left Canada for London. I had to act fast, Lana was going to stay mine.

As Lana dressed up ready to head out, I admired her beautiful curves. 'I would like us to go on a date this Friday. I hope you would be up to it?' I asked, Lana looked back and smiled 'Of course babe, we leave Canada Sunday anyways' she said, picking up a brush to take care of her hair, I had roughened up during our little charade earlier.

'Babe, I would be back soon, don't wait up for me' Lana said, picking up her bag and leaving the house. I sighed. 'See you too. I won't' I said in a whisper after she had gone.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN – COMING OUT OR NOT

My name is Lana and I identify as Lesbian

Edith made me this way, she made me who I am today. I couldn't imagine myself with a man anymore. As I drove to the hospital, I remembered the lies I had told Priye and I felt a little disgusted at myself. I was going to hurt Priye if I left her for Edith but my heart couldn't stand seeing Edith that way because of me. We had both been hurt enough - I was going to bring the pieces together; we were going to be together.

There was also her girlfriend Janet, I really disliked her, although we took turns watching over Edith as the days passed, I still disliked her. She didn't have the right to put her mouth in things that had happened between Edith and I, nobody except us had that right to be honest, I was not going to sit still and let Edith go, not when life had placed her sexy self, back in my path.

That night as I sat there watching Edith sleep, my mind drifted to the good times we had together in Nigeria. Our kisses, our lowkey anniversary celebrations, the sex, the jokes, the cuddles, I really missed her - it seemed like an eternity away from her, I thought I was over her but maybe I was never really over her in the first place. With my hands on my head, I stared at the ground and silently murmured 'Come back to me Edith. I need you to fight. You called my name that day when you got hit, now I am in front of you but you won't open your eyes' I allowed the tears flow to the ground.

It seemed like a dream, but if felt like someone's hand caressed my hair lightly. I looked up in shock and saw Janet towering over me. I wiped off the tears from my face 'You really loved Edith, didn't you?' She asked 'Yes, I really did and still do' I replied mustering up my strongest face 'Look, I am not here to fight you Lana. I am here to throw in the white flag' She said, I was surprised and just stared at her. I had not heard correctly right, she couldn't just be giving up on Edith because she was in a coma, I clenched my fists 'What did you say?' I asked again to be sure before I took action 'I am throwing in the white flag. I may love Edith but I don't stand a chance if she wakes up to see you. You know that, you know it's going to be an easy win for you' she said. I sighed, maybe I knew that but Janet intimidated me a little.

'Maybe why both of you didn't work out was because your relationship in Nigeria was a little too toxic. Don't worry Edith didn't tell me all this, her friend did. She never spoke about your intimate things, she respected your memories together. Before I leave, I will ask two things' She said, I simply nodded and said 'Go on' 'I need you to hand her this letter and not read it. Then, I need you to also take good care of her. She is still afraid, no matter what, she is still Nigerian and you know what that means, she has to hide her sexuality, she can't just damn the consequences.' She said 'I understand that now, I wish I had understood it earlier but I do now and I am ready to do everything and anything to have her back with me' I ended. Janet simply smiled and patted my back, after which she handed me the letter, kissed Edith and left.

I admit that as much as I disliked Janet, I did like the fact that she knew when to give up. It was a welcome development that she knew when to tidy up her feelings, she was strong emotionally and I envied her for that. I knew she was going to cry it all away or drink herself to stupor but to get as suicidal as I did, I knew she was stronger than that and I was jealous of her strength. Sliding my hands into Edith's I smiled down at her still form, she looked so peaceful, her face drew me in and I bent down to kiss her goodnight, as my lips touched hers, I saw her eyes part ways and open, I hovered over her frozen - her eyes slowly adjusted to the light and she stared at me as well, I kissed her lightly when I came to and called for the doctors.

I was in the waiting room when the doctors came out. 'How is she now doc?' I asked. 'She is doing great. It looks like she fought well. She is fine, she is asking to see you' the doctor said with a smile 'Thank you' I said running in. 'Edith' I said breathing wildly as I rushed to her side, she was smiling as she stared at me, she still looked weak but she was alive and awake. 'Lana? Is that really you? I am not dreaming right?' She said in a shaky voice 'Yes baby. I am right here' I said. Edith had her hands out as she traced my face out, she was smiling wildly now 'Thank you for fighting to see me Edith' I said, I pecked her warm face 'Thank you so much for fighting to see me' I said again plastering her face with kisses. She was giggling now as I nuzzled my nose against hers.

'I am happy Lana' She said, 'So happy you are here. So happy we are together again but I have a girlfriend now' She said looking worried. 'About that' I started 'Janet asked me to give you this' I said, passing her the note which she read.

Dear Edith,

Thank you for the opportunity to have lived for a little bit as your girlfriend but I know you deeply love Lana and I have set you free. You deserve to be happy. Always and forever. I love you Edith.

Janet.

'She left us to be together Lana' Edith said, a little bit confused 'Yeah, she did. Are you upset that she did?' I asked a little upset 'No, not at all. You still have Priye don't you?' Edith asked 'Well, yes but don't worry I will get everything sorted. We will be together again; I promise' I replied. I bent down and gave her a kiss, it felt good tasting Edith again, her lips were still soft and moist, she had the best after coma breath ever, it was weird but strange weird.

I sat by her side that Thursday night as we caught up on everything and anything. It felt like yesterday when all of the drama had happened but it had in reality taken us two whole years before life decided to bring us back together.

'I am sorry Lana. For ever leaving and hurting you' Edith said, her voice muffled with incoming tears \- I stopped her right there. 'Hey! Hey! I am fine now. Stop that. I am here now' I said and I will never let you run away from me ever again.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN – SHOCKING NIGHTMARE

My name is Priye and today I get to propose to Lana.

I was super excited. After today Lana was going to be mine. She had been acting weird for some days now and I usually went to bed without her by my side but today, things were different, Lana was there, she was asleep. She had come home earlier that morning I guessed but I was happy she knew where her home was. I caressed her cheek and she stirred, I hovered above still staring at her sleepy face - she soon opened her eyes and looked up at me, a smile playing on her lips. 'Good morning' She said giving me a kiss. 'Morning beautiful' I said 'I hope you are getting ready for our date tonight?' I asked and she nodded, her smile widening. 'I am, I even have the perfect dress planned out' she replied and I kissed her.

Her expression had changed however, she didn't seem so cheerful after that, she excused herself and went to the toilet. 'Is anything wrong?' I asked behind her 'No babe, I just feel a bit nauscious' she replied, her voice echoing through the bathroom wall. I kept busy while Lana took her bath, she would want to eat after this, good thing I was always one step ahead, her favourite breakfast beacon and eggs with toast bread sat waiting for her.

She soon came out dressed up and headed for the kitchen, her scent drawing me in. 'Awww, babe!!!' I heard her exclaim and I smiled, yup I was thoughtful like that, everything had to go smoothly today, the proposal was to happen at 6pm, I had booked a room which had already been decorated with pictures of us and cute balloons, I knew Lana liked. I smiled to myself as Lana walked up to me and gave me a peck. 'You are the best really. You are always so thoughtful' She said. 'Well, what can I say, I love you too much' I said laughing but Lana did not laugh back, she gave a quick smile and sat on the duffel mat which was placed in front of the TV, she then started swinging through different channels till she found one which interested her - Investigation ID.

'Lana, why do you like this shit. All they do is talk about people killing and people being killed. Its weird stuff to me' I said 'You know that I always wanted to be an investigative reporter so obviously this stuff fascinates me. Edith and I used to watch this ...' she started, I looked up at her, I had been pressing my phone but Lana talking about Edith out of the blue shook me 'I am sorry Priye.' She continued in an almost apologetic tone, 'I just like the show' She finally said.

'Hmmm' was all I said and continued with my phone, this was strange - was I to be scared, had she found the diary I tasked Sola the responsibility of hiding, things were getting strange but I had to keep it in. We were going to be out of this country tomorrow and my sudden strange thoughts would be laid to rest when Lana and I started planning our wedding stuff. I sighed and watched Lana as she watched the television and ate. I needed to take her as far away from Edith as I possibly could.

3:30pm \- I had to pick calls that came through at the balcony, I didn't intend to spoil the surprise, this was a big deal. I rubbed my hands together, I was nervous. I had to get myself together - Lana was going to be my fiancée by the end of tonight, I had to stop being a wuss and prepare everything that needed to be done, everything had to be perfect.

5:00pm \- Lana had stepped out an hour ago and promised to meet up with me at the venue for our date. It was a good thing she left, I needed a little more space to plan the proposal. 'Lana, you are the most beautiful woman I have ever come by. I bless the day I met you at the drug store. You are so wonderful, beautiful, intelligent and I would want to take this next step with only you... crap, this won't work' I said standing up, I had one knee to the ground, practicing my lines for the proposal. Damn, I was a nervous wreck, Maybe I needed a drink.

5:45pm \- I was on the way to the hotel and restaurant. We were going to have a nice dinner where they served the best of everything Lana loved to have and from there we were going to move things upstairs for the final reveal. I was excited.

6:30pm \- Lana called to tell me she would be held up a bit, so I sat alone at the restaurant waiting for Lana to show up. Whenever she said she was going to be late, she was usually late by 30 minutes, I used that time to calm myself down, I needed to get the proposal right, I was super nervous.

7:00pm \- Lana hadn't shown up, she wasn't taking her calls anymore. So, I ate the meal and headed upstairs. I was worried. Where the hell was she, she would normally not do this - I sat on the bed staring at all our pictures hanging beautifully to welcome Lana. Something was wrong, I could feel it in my bones.

Lana came by 8:00pm, two hours after the whole setting was planned but I was more grateful to see her than upset. She hugged me and apologized 'I am sorry babe, something bad happened to someone and I needed to be there for...' She said and I shushed her up with a kiss. 'It is fine baby. I am just glad you are here' I said. 'I know you are upset Priye, you don't need to pretend. You acting like this makes me sad. Look at everything you prepared, these cute pictures and the whole romantic setting. I know you are mad' She said. How could I be annoyed at the woman I desired to spend the rest of my life with. I swallowed, now was the perfect time, we were alone in the room.

'Lana, I can't be mad at you. I actually had all these prepared because I wanted to...' I started and then placed one knee on the ground, Lana's eyes grew wide. '...ask you if you would want to spend forever with me. So would you?' I asked looking at Lana whose hands would not come down from her mouth and whose eyes had suddenly grown teary, she wasn't saying anything, she just stood there. 'Can I have an answer, Lana?' I asked again 'I am sorry Priye, I can't marry you' Lana finally said, her voice soft with tears. I stood mortified 'Why?' I asked, 'The reason I have been away so much is because I had to take care of Edith who got in the car accident, she was also admitted in the same hospital as me' she started. I suddenly felt the world turning around me, I felt dizzy before I could understand what was going on, I had fainted.

When I came to I saw Lana and Sola seated and watching me. 'What happened? I feel like I just had a shocking nightmare' I said, 'Umm! you fainted Priye. Do you need a glass of water?' Lana asked and I nodded, I watched her as she went to get a bottle of bubbly water from our bedside fridge. After a couple of gulps, I felt much better. 'Lana, you and Edith met right? What happened?' I asked, dreading the answer 'I am sorry Priye, you have been such an amazing woman to me and I am hurting you like this. I have come to realize however that I love Edith and we want to be together' She said 'After she hurt you, denied you, slept around with different people? You still prefer that toxic relationship based on sex over this?' I asked, very furious. 'You don't understand. None of you do' She said looking at Sola who had his face down, he seemed to be smiling at something that wasn't there.

'Help me understand then, dammit' I said. 'To so many of you, it was just sex but with us it was much more than that' she said 'I love Edith, we love eachother and we want to be together' Lana said. 'I am sorry Priye. I will go pack up my stuff from the house' She continued getting up. 'It was only a matter of time' I heard Sola mumble, Lana had stopped in her tracks 'I believe this is yours Lana' Sola said, handing her Edith's diary. 'This is...' Lana exclaimed as she examined it. ' Yes, it is. Edith's diary which she had delivered to your place back in Nigeria before we left. I hid it because I couldn't stomach the thought of its content hurting you but after I read it, I came to understand. If you really want to be with her, then I won't hold you back' Sola finally said. Lana thanked him and hugged him, she looked back at me with tears in her eyes and left. I sat motionless, taking it all in.

'Looks like the jig is up Priye, best to leave them be now' Sola said. 'You, how could you, I thought you also liked Lana, why would you let her go' I asked confused, I knew the feelings he hid even as he sent her off to Edith, I wasn't stupid - I knew everything. 'Well, I guess I like her too much to steal her all to myself' Sola said with a laugh. 'Do you need a drink buddy?' Sola asked, 'It looks like you do' I nodded. I was too dazed but Sola stayed beside me and when I cried, he looked away, his hands rubbing my back, petting me to stop. Lana had broken me.
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN – AFRICAN PARENTS IN THE ABROAD

My name is Edith and boy am I glad to be alive.

Janet had stopped by the hospital to see me - Lana had to leave because she said she needed to be with Priye, apparently she had planned some sort of date. I sighed \- I had my own problems too, in as much as I wanted Lana, I had to remember that Janet had been my girlfriend all through my coma, watching Lana come in and out must have been hard on her.

'Hey big girl. You are finally up' Janet said, placing fresh flowers in the empty vase which stayed beside me. There were several get well soon cards lined up in the private ward courtesy Lana, Janet, some of my friends and colleagues. The love I was shown was too much - I was grateful to be getting discharged soon though. The doctor said I had only one more week to stay at the clinic, they needed to be sure everything was fine with me. I couldn't wait to be discharged and dive straight into work. I knew news of my being in a coma had reached our Nigerian office since Blessing had taken it upon himself to send me a get well soon letter, he had also sent messages to me telling me to take it easy - I knew he still loved me, it was just sad that we were not meant to be.

'Yeah, I am up Janet. Thanks for coming' I said, still a little weak from the all the meds I had prescribed, I tried to sit up but I still felt woozy. Janet raced towards me 'You should lay down. I don't mind us talking this way' she said, helping me relax. When I was relaxed, I took her hands in mine 'I am sorry Janet.' I said, my voice shaky 'Why are you apologizing?' She asked. I had not known Janet long enough but what I knew about her as a colleague made me know that Janet always liked to act tough. 'I understand if you don't want to talk about it. I am just sorry for putting you through all of this. I appreciate your coming here.' I said, caressing her soft hands as I stared into her warm eyes. 'If you keep acting like this, I would not want to let go of you anymore Edith' She said, pulling her hand away - she licked her lips. 'You guys deserve to be happy. I am not going to come in-between that. I just have one favour to ask of you though' she said 'Name it, whatever it is I will do it' I said a hastily. 'Are you sure?' She asked and I nodded. 'Give me a goodbye kiss' She said. I cleared my throat 'Umm! Janet, if Lana were to walk in on us like this, I don't know what I would be able to do to make her understand. I can't hurt her anymore' I said and Janet laughed 'Of course I know silly. I was just pulling your legs. I just want a hug' She said and I opened my arms wide with a smile. I felt her scent dance unto me as she collapsed into me and we embraced. 'Take care of yourself Edith. Thank you for giving me a part of you, I will always cherish that' She said and I smiled as we just stayed there hugging eachother.

The following morning, Lana came by. 'Hey Lana' I said stirring from sleep as she opened the hospital door 'Hey Edith' Lana said bending down for a kiss 'I brought you some of your favourite stuff' Lana said bringing out some home-cooked meals, they smelt familiar and I almost started to cry - I was finally home, Lana was indeed my home. 'How did your date with Priye go?' I asked a little curious. I felt a little terrible that Lana was sneaking behind Priye's back 'Well, it went' Lana said still arranging all she had brought and busying herself preparing some breakfast for me from the feast she had brought. 'It went? What type of answer is that?' I asked and she dropped all that she was doing to face me. 'It just is Edith. She wanted to propose' Lana said looking down and fidgeting, my eyes opened wide \- propose? wow, that was huge. 'I told her about us and refused. So, here I am trying to get you the best meal so be understanding' Lana said finally and I understood.

While we ate, I stared at her, Lana was still as beautiful as ever. Her eyes were glittering as she took turns feeding me and having her meal. 'Lana?' I called and she smiled at me 'Would you mind us getting married?' I asked. The spoon Lana had been holding dropped from her hand and fell to the floor. 'Well, not immediately. You know, when I am able to tell my parents about us' I said. Lana was about answering when I heard an all too familiar voice 'Tell us about who dear?' It was my mom, I almost choked on the meat ball I had in my mouth. What were my parents doing here?

'Hey dad, hey mom' I said glancing at Lana who looked frozen to the seat. 'Hey kiddo. I am happy you are well. We couldn't reach you so we decided to contact your office and they told us what happened. We made sure to book our tickets immediately.' My dad said. 'And just who are you dear?' My mom was now addressing Lana, she suddenly got up and greeted my parents the Yoruba way 'Welcome ma and sir. I am Lana, Edith's friend' She said. 'Ohh, good. How nice of you to care for our daughter during this time' my mom said 'So, you don't look Nigerian' my dad said 'Ummm yeah, my dad is not Nigerian but my mom is, Igbo to be precise' Lana replied and my dad laughed 'Don't mind me, we are simply African parents in the abroad' my dad laughed again as Lana forced a laugh, I smiled.

'Dear, Blessing has been asking about you. He has been trying to apologise for sending you off just like that. Don't you think you were a bit rash calling off the wedding?' my mom asked just as Lana cut in 'I will excuse you Edith' She said, her fists clenched - I knew what my mom said had touched a nerve. Lana was about to leave.

'Wait. Lana' I said as she stopped in her tracks to face me, her eyes pleading with me not to do anything stupid. But I was done hiding, done lying, done denying my happiness, I was done with everything, all I wanted was Lana. She was my most important person and I was not going to do anything to lose her twice. 'Mom, dad. I have something I must tell you' I said 'Go on ahead Asake' my mom said in her very Nigerian accent. 'Mom, I happen to be in love with Lana' I said, watching their expressions, my dad looked taken aback.

'Kilon so omode yi' -translation (what are you saying you this child?). He didn't seem like he wanted to hear any more so he walked out of the private ward. My mom just sat there staring at Lana and I. Lana was at my side now and I was holding her hands tight, my palm was sweating, I was afraid of what my parents would say. My dad arrived shortly after and sat back down 'So, Edith no that English name doesn't matter here, Toyin, you came to Canada and caught their homosexual flu' my dad said 'No dad, I did not. I was dating Lana since Nigeria' I said 'Shut up your mouth here. It is God that saved you that you are on that sick bed and we are not in Nigeria where I can hire some boys to beat this demon out of you.' my dad shot back, careful not to let his voice out too loud since he knew he wasn't in a country where they tolerated homophobia 'You see this your daughter. She wants to disgrace me' my dad was now telling my mom who still sat still staring at me and Lana.

'Why are you trying to break our hearts Asake, after all we have done for you, all the sacrifices we have made. Why are you engaging in something as ungodly as this? You should know better Asake' my mother was now crying and it broke me but I had to stand my ground. I could not for the sake of my parent's approval deny my happiness anymore 'Mom, dad, I love Lana and I have been in denial for the longest time but I want to be happy and Lana makes me happy dad. I want to marry her' I said

'Over my dead body' my father said jumping up. 'If you had said this back in Lagos dear, you would be cooling your head in jail.' My father said 'Madam Lana, get out of here. We need to talk to our daughter' my mother said eyeing her, I squeezed Lana's palm as she fought back tears - I needed her to know that this was what was going to happen when I dropped it all for her sake, she needed to face it with me. 'Shey you did not hear me. You this rude witch, leave this place' my mother said again, my father rising as if he wanted to throw her out of the room - Lana had to leave and I watched her walk out, when she had gone, I turned to face my parents, the war had begun and now was the time to fight.

CHAPTER NINETEEN – WHY SHOULD WE BELIEVE YOU?

My name is Edith and my parents are not talking to me.

I have been discharged but I am having bigger issues at the moment. Lana has been coming to see me, she had to extend her stay in Calgary but we have been sneaking around because of my parents. They think I want to kill them, disgrace them and what not - they are trying to persuade me to come back to Nigeria with them and I know all too well why, they want to do everything in their power to purge the gay in me. I laugh at them because they do not understand.

Maybe I was born again when I fell into that coma. When I was confronted with my alter ego, I faced certain truths about life and came to terms with a lot of things surrounding my life. I knew what I wanted and who I was now, I wanted Lana and I was pan-sexual. I identified as Bi-curious because I was curious, not that I was interested but now I was attracted to only Lana, if she came in man or woman, the person who called to me was Lana and I had come to terms with that now. People would usually refer to it as gender-blindness but it was more than that to be honest, it was the ability to see beyond a person and love that person regardless of who they were born as and when one came to the reality of it all, that process in itself was one so beautiful.

'Toyin errr sorry Edith' my mom called 'Ma' I answered, this being the first time since they both got back to my place my mother had called for me. I knew they were ready to talk now considering the fact that they had to go back to Nigeria tomorrow. 'Sit down, Asake' my mother instructed and I obeyed. 'Your father and I want to talk to you' my mom continued and I just sat there waiting for the verdict. My father cleared his throat 'You have brought disgrace upon us Toyin and this is very depressing. I am very disappointed in you, you have spat in our faces all the years of good moral upbringing' my father said and spat, I flinched and kept my head faced down. ' My daughter, my darling Asake, we are not happy with your decision but seeing as your mind is made up, you are also old enough to lay your bed and lay in it. We won't stop you but we cannot accept your way of life. We will not tolerate it.' my mother said and then sighed 'Do you really love that girl Asake?' my mother asked and I raised up my eyes to scan hers.

'Yes, mom. I love her. I need you to believe me' I said 'Believe you? Why should we believe you? You are probably under strong witchcraft manipulation at the moment.' my dad said, my mom placed a hand on my dad's lap to calm him down and he looked away annoyed. 'My dear daughter, no matter how we look at it, your choice is morally wrong, socially incorrect but you have chosen your path and we will not force our way on you' my mom said and then faced my dad as if giving him a cue to continue talking - my dad cleared his throat.

'Well, if you want to live as an abomination, then you will have to do it here and alone. We will come by once in a while but you can't come visit us with that lady by your side' my dad said 'Daddy, this sounds like exile from my own home' I said suddenly aware of the meaning behind his words 'Take it however you like Toyin. You want to be a disgrace to our family name? Do it by yourself, we cannot be a laughing stock amongst our friends because of your poor choices' my dad yelled back at me. 'For the wedding you want to have, we won't be attending' my mother said 'We cannot give our blessings to a union we quantify as sickening, a union which does not bear fruit, a union that does not glorify God' my mom said.

I had known the outcome would be bad but I never imagined my parents saying all of these things to me, I cried as they both took turns to tear out my heart. I knew this was the price to my being happy and I knew I had to be strong for me and Lana, I was lucky they did not tell my family members who would have dissociated themselves from me. 'We won't tell anyone at home so you can still act normally around them. Don't disgrace us anymore than you already have we beg you' my mother said. They both stood up and walked into their room and I just sat in the living room crying.
CHAPTER TWENTY – THE END?

My name is Lana and I am happy.

Edith's parents left last week, we saw them off to the airport but they did not say a word to us. The drive back home was silent, no one spoke. Edith's eyes were swollen from crying and I did my best to be by her. Weeks had passed and I relocated to Canada, kicking off my business in the county at Edith's side. We moved in together.

'Lana. We can get married in court but our white wedding should be done when my parents come to terms with us' Edith had said. Of course, I wanted everyone around for the happiest day of our lives so we got married by law but stalled on our white wedding.

So is this the end? Haha, no it is just the beginning. I have Edith by my side as my lawfully wedded wife, we are planning on having Sola donate his sperm and I having our first child. We are super excited to grow old together. Edith is coming to terms with her exile from home and she is getting over the whole escapade with her parents - I love how strong she is.

Oh and to Loveless, your messages have been received. I am still looking for the best time to tell Edith I eventually received the best part of her heart. Life is looking good now, we are at peace, trying to start a family and letting love lead - our happiness knows no bounds. I am glad for love, forgiveness and time, they make life the best storyteller.

And I love how strong you all are for coming into our world. See you in book three.

EPILOGUE

My name is Sola and I identify as pan-sexual.

It is not news that Lana and Edith finally got married. Priye well, she travelled to New York shortly after Lana and her split - we still kept in touch. I guess a little part of me liked her but that lady is hardcore lesbian - no amount of dick was going to change that. Heck, I am such a douche bag but hey finding love isn't easy, you have to taste both genders to figure out what works for you.

I have never been one to believe in love but ever since my longest crush on Lana maybe I had been lying to myself. It was not easy letting Lana go, that night as I handed her Edith's diary, a part of me knew that I had lost Lana for good. Maybe it was high time I hung my player boots and found something a bit more stable, someone who could complete me too.

I was excited for the future. Finishing from my business meeting, having taken over my father's company, I walked to my car and headed for the club with friends, it was time to celebrate the new me, one ready to commit and willing to take risks in love.

AUTHORS ADDRESS

This book was very emotional for me and I hope it was for you too. Finishing this book was hard, because of the extremely long chapters I had laid out for myself but it was definitely worth it. It pushed me to my limits as a writer and I am glad I got to share more about Lana and Edith.

From the Epilogue, you can see I am working on a character shift for the next book. Finding a love interest for Sola will be difficult because his character is a very strong and calculative one. However, that is why I am doing it, we need to understand why he thinks the way he does, who exactly he shows his weaknesses to, those sort of things will be explored in 'A Curious Wedding'.

Lana and Edith get the best happy ending, a same sex Nigerian couple can especially with what we see transpire between Edith and her parents - it may come off as painful to some of you but that is the reality of what goes on with same sex relationships here in Nigeria.

I also tried to tone down the sexual activities between characters and focus more on their character development which I am sure a lot of you will enjoy. Lana and Edith are always going to be amazing characters to me, because even as I told their stories, it didn't feel like it was me writing them. I enjoyed the entire writing process, and I want to thank all of you for supporting the curious series. MERRY WONDERFUL CHRISTMAS GUYS!!! See you again in book 3 which will hopefully be released before April, 2020
