

A GAME OF VAMPIRES

A VAMPIRE GAMES PREQUEL NOVELLA

CAROLINE PECKHAM

PROLOGUE

A sharp wind rolled over us and the candle went out.

The smell of smoke from the burnt wick ran over me, followed by something rancid, like rotting flesh. I wrinkled my nose, feeling Jonah press me back.

"Jonah, the light," I begged and heard him fumbling for the matches.

One strike. Two.

On the third, the space was illuminated in a bright flash. A bony face was lit up before me, as white as chalk, as thin as a waif.

The match went out.

I screamed, slashing outwards with my stake.

Vampire.

I recalled the words Jonah had spoken to me once just before our first kiss. All those days ago.

"I love you from the sea to the stars, Evangeline."

JONAH

A fist swung at me from the left, clocking my ribs. I'd let him get the shot. It brought me close enough to throw a punch to his abdomen. One then two. My opponent cried out, stumbling back. Greaser, they called him, due to the way he slicked his black hair back with oil. I kept mine short for fights. No need to give my opponents more of me to grab onto.

The crowd was pressing in, barely illuminated by the gas lanterns surrounding us on the cobbled street. The coal-grey sky was bleeding sunlight by the second. The moment the sun set, it was over. Simple rules. Whoever was still standing by sundown would be the winner of five shillings. More than my monthly pay.

The only problem was, as the sun abandoned us, we were both still standing. Bloody, bruised, shirtless. My skin was crusty from the blood drying on me. My breathing was ragged. At least my face would be fine for work the next day. We didn't throw punches above the neck. But anything below the collar bone was fair game. Speaking of which...

I slammed a hard kick between my opponent's legs. It wasn't exactly foul play, just more of a gentleman's honour thing. For five shillings, I had sold my honour and potentially his ability to have children. My opponent crashed to the floor, groaning and cupping his manhood.

The crowd booed, but the referee, Billy Woodside, lifted my hand into the air, declaring me the victor.

He tugged me closer, speaking through his teeth. "That was a shitty move, Jonah."

"I never said it wasn't," I replied under my breath.

The women in the crowd seemed more impressed with me than the men. But then they had no idea what it was like to be kicked in the gonads.

Greaser was pulled to his feet by his pals and one of them spat at me. It didn't sully my mood. I was used to being disliked. I didn't have many friends. And those I could call friends weren't the type of men most other people associated with. I was a loner by choice. Some would call me a trickster, others a con artist. A few used more colourful words when referring to me. Frankly, my motive was never to make friends. It was to make money. Friends couldn't pay for the roof over your head. Friends wouldn't buy you a boat and sail you to...well, anywhere but London.

That was why I'd been preparing my biggest con yet. I'd been working for Lord Belmont for months now. And one day soon, I was going to run off into the sunset with all his money. I just had to figure out how to get access to it first. He had a safe the size of England. One he took with him when he went abroad. He barely let it out of his sight. So whatever was in that metal cube was seriously valuable. Like buying my freedom valuable. And it was mine. I just hadn't figured out how to get my hands on it yet.

My eyes locked on a girl in the crowd, being wooed by the men around her. A peony shawl hung around her shoulders. Her dress was as black as soot, her skin olive and dewy, her hair a sea of golden waves.

Some moments shake you awake in life. That was my moment. I felt Billy nudging me, trying to make me move. I heard Greaser's friends hurling insults me. I didn't believe in love at first sight. And I guess I didn't love her. But a part of me wanted to. A strange creature had risen its head inside me, and all it could see was her.

"Evangeline!" a woman crowed from amongst the crowd. She appeared beside the golden-haired beauty, grabbing her wrist and dragging her away. "You're not supposed to be out here. Your mother is searching everywhere for you."

I wandered toward them, pushing my sweaty hair back. Perhaps I wasn't in the best shape to approach her...

Someone chucked me my shirt and I dragged it on. When I looked up, she was gone. I snatched my five shillings from Billy, swearing as I pressed into the crowd in the direction she must have taken. Someone elbowed me hard in the spine. But I didn't care. Just kept moving in the direction that God-sent angel had taken.

I spotted her up ahead and quickened my pace. She cast a glance over her shoulder and smiled to herself as she eyed me. I grinned, following her down the darkening streets until she entered a building with a red door. A brothel.

My brows drew together as I hurried after her. She was a prostitute. That was just my luck. I tended to be the jealous type when it came to women.

Inside, the air was heavy with smoke and sweet perfume. It barely covered the smell of sweat and other bodily secretions and I had to fight the urge to raise a hand to my nose.

A fire roared on one side of the room, illuminating the space in an ambient glow. Men were sat on armchairs and sofas around the room with scantily-dressed women draped over them. Not my sort of scene. But today it would be.

I hounded after the girl I'd followed, but froze in my tracks as I spotted Belmont at the bar.

I stepped back. I knew he frequented places like this. No doubt, the man couldn't get a woman to bed him unless he paid her. Probably on account of the stinking gout in his right leg. Not to mention his fat gut and the sickly scent of posies he used to tried and hide the smell of his festering leg.

His eyes fell on the girl I'd followed and he smiled, moving toward her, using his cane to steady himself. "Ah, Evangeline," he purred.

Evangeline. The name was like heaven's bells chiming in my head.

She dipped her head in acknowledgement.

"She's still too young," snapped the woman beside her.

I could see that, too. Another reason it surprised me that she lived here. Evangeline cast another glance over her shoulder at me. I was rooted to the spot, but if Belmont saw me here, I was going to be in trouble. I was supposed to be on duty.

"I'd pay a fine price," Belmont said, taking a bag of coins from his pocket.

My gut churned and rage grew inside me. I shouldn't have felt possessive of a woman I didn't know. But then again, I'd probably have pitied any woman of having to bed Belmont.

"No," the older woman barked, pushing Evangeline in the direction of the staircase. "Go upstairs," she hissed and Evangeline nodded quickly, hurrying away.

At that very moment, Belmont's eyes turned to me. His gaze narrowed then he turned casually away, returning to his seat to pester some other unfortunate woman.

I raised my brows in surprise. Perhaps he didn't care I was here after all. Or maybe he hadn't recognised me on account of the blood and muck caking my body.

"Hey you."

I turned at the voice, spying Evangeline on the stairs, gesturing for me to come closer. I threw a cursory glance at Belmont before hurrying to meet her. I paused on the stair beneath hers, out of sight of the bar.

"Congratulations on your fight," she said, smiling. My heart danced in my chest. It was the most beautiful smile in the world.

"Thank you," I whispered. "Can I buy you a drink?" I lifted a brow. I'd always been good with women, but this one choked my voice box, not allowing my usual confidence to show.

"I have to go to my room," she said on a sigh. Then a mischievous glint shone in her eyes. "But I have a bottle of gin under my bed."

She took my hand and it was as soft as a baby's. I nodded, my throat tightening once more. She led me upstairs, the sound of moans and laughter carrying to us beyond the row of doors. At the far end of the corridor, she guided me into her room.

It was a simple space, with a single bed and pale curtains on the window, but one wall was adorned with a mural of the sea, reaching up to a sky of stars.

"I'm Jonah," I said, brushing my shirt down. I hoped I didn't look too much like a street dog. But some women liked that look. Perhaps she was one of them. If God had any mercy on me, she would be.

"Evangeline," she said, and the name sounded even more beautiful on her lips.

"Are we breaking any rules, Evangeline?" I asked, tasting her name in my own mouth.

"Yes," she said, smiling again.

Ah, that smile.

She took the bottle of gin from beneath her bed, sitting down and plucking the cork out of the top. "Let's break some more, shall we?"

EVANGELINE

TWO MONTHS LATER

Jonah was going to kill me. I'd promised him I wouldn't walk the streets alone at night anymore. The fog in London was like a blanket tonight, shimmering with the greenish glow of the gas lanterns. I was enveloped by darkness when I took a shortcut through an alley.

I had to see him. My love. My heart. I could have remained safe at home. If you could call it safe. The brothel was not somewhere I ever felt safe. Out in these icy alleys, I was at least free from the men's stares. My mother would not be pleased. She was the mistress of the brothel, and she always looked out for me. Kept me from losing my innocence. I'd not yet turned sixteen. But we both knew I was running out of time. No matter how many clothes I wore, how many hours I remained hidden, eyes eventually sought me out.

Jonah was saving every penny he got from his job as a Lord's servant. Working for a man who had spent more nights in my brothel than I could count. A man whose eyes had found me more than once. But mother always refused his offers, no matter how high the price. She wanted a better life for me. She dreamed of us running away together. But she only spoke of it under the influence of gin. I knew she didn't really believe we could run. What would two women do on their own in the world? How would we get by?

My innocence would provide her a huge price. And I'd once considered offering it up to pay us the money we needed to run. She'd hushed those thoughts quickly, her sparkling blue eyes promising me she'd find another way. But she hadn't. Not yet. And now I'd fallen for Lord Belmont's servant boy. We'd spend hours talking whilst Belmont drank and lay with women. Jonah was not like any other man I had met before. He was kind, thoughtful. He had brought me roses once and when they had wilted, I'd dried them out and pressed them in my journal. Our secret pressed between the pages.

I hurried to him now, gathering up my heavy skirt to free my feet. I'd seen him every night this week. We spent hours talking. Just talking. I preferred seeing him outside of the brothel, despite his protests.

Last night he had stolen his first kiss. One I had given eagerly. One that had defied all laws of what kisses should have been capable of. I had not known a kiss could be felt in every part of one's body. And I wanted more. I craved more. So now, I ran to him in the dead of night, knowing I would have to sneak onto the grounds of Lord Belmont's manor and slip through the servants' quarters to find my way to him.

I cut down an alley. Though I was swallowed by darkness, I could just make out the dim green glow of a lantern at the far end. Perhaps a hundred yards or so.

Heavy footsteps sounded behind me and I quickened my pace, gathering my shawl tighter around my shoulders. It was peony silk. The finest thing I owned. It had been a gift from my mother. It still smelt of her, like peppermint and smoke.

A shadow passed across the wall beside me. A fox perhaps? It was too dark to tell.

I would not have felt so skittish had the footsteps not sounded closer behind me. I glanced over my shoulder, spotting a figure obscured by the mist. A man, I was sure. He was tall and broad-shouldered, that much I could make out. For a moment I feared I had been followed from the brothel by one of my admirers.

I hurried onward, fixing my gaze on the light ahead.

My heart beat quickened like a galloping horse in my chest.

Not far now, Evangeline. Your Jonah is waiting.

A rush of air signalled movement behind me. A hand caught hold of my dress and I gasped, trying to pull away. His grip was firm, unrelenting. He turned me around and I met his icy gaze. Fear trickled through me like rushing water. I trembled beneath the immense man. His eyes were darkest green, his hair long and black, hanging to his shoulders. He was beautiful in a way that took me by surprise. And when he spoke, a feeling of peace doused my fears like a snuffed-out candle.

"Calm," he said and I nodded, feeling lucid as if I were in some trance. "What is your name?"

"Evangeline," the name left my lips easily. Whatever this man wanted, I knew I would give it to him. But I didn't know why. He held me gently now, his hands resting on my shoulders. I was a moth before a flame.

"You will come with me, Evangeline," he growled, his voice deep and alluring.

I nodded, feeling no resistance to that fact. But a small voice inside me screamed Jonah's name. This was not right, and yet I felt that it was my choice. That I would willingly go wherever this man wished to take me.

He took my hand, guiding me back in the direction I had come. Beyond the alley, a black carriage awaited us. The driver barely glanced at me, but I drank him in. He was young, barely eighteen at a guess. And his hair was fairest blonde. As my escort opened the door, my eyes fell upon two other girls, their eyes glazed. They seemed as docile as me. As if they too were under this strange man's charm.

The man guided me inside, remaining beyond it a moment as he spoke to the driver. "Three from London, as requested, Ignus. Now give me my payment."

"You will wait until we are at sea," Ignus, replied.

"If you will have me ride with them, I shall not be able to resist. Especially that last one..." My captor glanced into the carriage, his eyes roaming from my face to my neck.

Still, I felt no fear, though I was certain I should have.

Oh Jonah, what is happening? I have two desires carved inside me now. One to be with you, and the other to do anything this man says.

"She is quite the beauty," Ignus replied. "Especially with those golden curls. I believe she will make us good money. So if you drink from her, Varick, I will ask my father's permission to punish you."

My captor, Varick, made a low growl in his throat. "Your father will be most displeased to hear you kept me hungry at the risk of hurting his contestants."

Contestants?

A tense pause passed between them then Varick caught a small bottle as Ignus threw it to him. He didn't utter another word, climbing into the carriage and slamming the door. The candle inside the carriage illuminated the red liquid inside the bottle. As he uncorked it, a metallic smell filled my nose.

He drank it down, his eyes wild as he did so. He shut them momentarily as a sigh of relief passed his lips. A line of red dribbled from the corner of his mouth.

Is that blood?

But surely not. What monster was this man? And why did I not feel the terror that should have gripped my soul at the sight?

Ignus shouted, "Yah!" and the stallion pulling us took off. We rocked and swayed, my shoulder bumping Varick's as we moved.

The other girls gazed at him, their eyes glassy. Both were true beauties, but neither were dressed too well. They had a look of the poor about them, thin and pale. Something in their faces told me they were related. Both had dark hair and full lips. Maids, I guessed.

"Where are we going?" I managed to say the words, despite the dream-like feeling sweeping through my body.

Varick did not look at me, his gaze turning to the candle as if he wished to avoid my eye. "To your graves, most likely."

JONAH

"Bags," Lord Belmont demanded.

I'd been so distracted by the view of the colossal castle high up on the cliff, that I'd forgotten my duty. The frozen air clung to my bones. Perhaps I wouldn't have felt the chill if I'd been as well-dressed as Belmont in his moleskin...

I hurried back onto the boat where the rest of the servants rolled their eyes at me. They had never taken to me well. Bastard son of a bankrupt lawyer. But that was not the reason they despised me. It was my dreams of grandeur and wealth the provoked them. I saw myself growing as rich as Lord Belmont one day. Richer perhaps.

"Remember your place, boy," one of the cooks said, her eyes fierce. Mrs Redford had the look of an old crow with her feathery black hair and pointed nose. She made it her personal mission to make my life as miserable as possible. "And don't cause trouble on this island. Or Lord Belmont will have you fed to a Vampire."

Vampires. I clucked my tongue at that. Such a thing was nonsense. Lord Belmont was somewhat obsessed with dark, mystical creatures. He had a fondness for the strange. Which had somewhat drawn me to his employment initially. That and the enormous wealth he was blessed with. But he had no time for his house staff. We were to be seen and not heard. And I'd spent my younger days running my mouth, bartering and selling potions for an old alchemist. Being quiet wasn't my forte. Since the alchemist's death, I'd lost my passion for the trade, turning to cons instead. He had been one of the few people in my life to encourage my ideas of greatness.

"You will be a king amongst men, if only you want it enough," he had told me the day before his passing. His liver had rotted in his gut. He had sworn that a particular mix of gin and botanicals, was the cure to all disease. An excuse to drink daily from morn til dusk, more like. I had never been blind to the delusion we'd been selling. The potions were mostly water, riddled with herbs so the patient truly believed they were drinking something of worth. The worse tasting, the more they seemed to believe it did them good. Fools. I would not be tricked so easily. So when the other servants had spoken of the Vampires on this island, I was skeptical to say the least.

I had been most reluctant to leave my dear Evangeline behind – I'd not had a chance to say goodbye. Belmont had sprung this trip on us at the last moment. But I would only be gone a week. Then I would return to her arms. I would buy us freedom one day. But time was running out before she would be forced to give up her virginity. I couldn't bear the idea of her innocence being stolen by some lech like Belmont. Someone who didn't appreciate her.

I saw what other men did not. I saw her kind soul. I'd recently watched the way she'd cared for the pregnant cat her mother kept to chase mice. The fatter it had grown, the more useless a hunter it had become. But Evangeline had made sure it was fed and let it sleep upon her bed at night until it had its kittens. She was no less than an angel in my eyes. And I would find a way to the money that would free us one day.

I'd been slyly stealing jewels and trinkets from around Belmont's house for weeks. But that wasn't my end game. No, Belmont had plenty of value that I wanted. Including an emerald broach belonging to his late wife. And whatever was in his safe. A safe which was currently onboard the boat. I'd recently figured out that the only way I could get inside it was with a key. A key which hung around his thick neck. But once I set my eye on a prize, I had to possess it. No matter how difficult that feat might be.

I gazed up at the moon, carrying two large bags and another stuffed under one arm. The other staff were equally laden. Why Belmont insisted on bring half of his house with him for one week in this place was a mystery to me.

I hurried along the wooden pier. Other boats were docked there too, but none as fine as ours. A motorised vessel, the most modern on the market. Belmont may have been an old kook, but he was a damn rich one. One of the wealthiest men in London as I understood it.

"What time is sunrise?" I called to one of the maids.

She laughed, sharing some secret joke with the others. Belmont had evidently heard me, standing tall at the end of the pier, leaning his weight on his fine cane of gold. A cane, which I knew had a secret blade stashed beneath its jewelled pommel. One twist and the knife came free. I had sharpened it on more than one occasion.

"Ignorant boy," Belmont addressed me. "We are in the Arctic Circle. The sun does not rise here for another six months."

My gut twisted at that. I didn't much like the dark. It was one of those fears I kept hidden from people. From everyone but Evangeline, of course. When I'd told her of it, she hadn't snickered at me, or jested. Especially once I'd explained why. As a toddler, I'd had to sleep in a dark cupboard in my mother's room. She'd had no money for a larger living space. I knew that. But the cupboard had left its mark on me. Especially the nights I'd called out to her and she hadn't come. When she'd been selling her body to make ends meet. I didn't blame her. She'd done what she'd had to for us to survive. But it was her death sentence in the end. One of the men had refused to pay and when she'd demanded the money, he'd beat her to death. The old alchemist who lived next door had heard her screams, but it was too late. He'd taken me in. The first and last kindness I'd ever received from a stranger.

Belmont led the way up a myriad of stone steps, winding toward the towering castle up on the cliff. The moon bathed its walls in a milky glow and stars peppered the black canvas beyond it. As we drew closer, a chill crept up my spine. I had not ventured beyond England before, and the tingle in my veins spoke of my anticipation. This castle seemed fit to house Frankenstein's monster. I couldn't imagine what awaited us inside its cavernous walls.

As we crested the hill, with Belmont panting heavily, I caught sight of a dark courtyard ahead, lit with fiery stakes in the ground surrounding a stone fountain. The contorted bodies of the beautiful effigies within it were almost erotic and I naturally averted my gaze as we gathered in the yard. A slit of light cast across our group as two immense doors parted before us. A shadow stepped into the amber glow and a fiercely large man with broad shoulders appeared. The light cast a halo behind his head, illuminating his starkly blonde hair. His eyes were as blue as sapphires, and no warmth transpired from them until they rested on my master.

"Welcome, Lord Belmont. Do come in out of the cold." He ushered us forward and I followed obediently with the other servants.

"Abraham Van Helsing," Belmont said in his gravelly tone. "You look as well as ever."

"The games always serve to invigorate me, Belmont. As you well know."

"Quite, I have anticipated my return for many months." Belmont moved to Abraham's side and we followed them down a hall of grey flagstones, lit by torches set into brackets on the walls. The eyes of ghostly portraits followed me; all marked with the Helsing name, the final of which pictured Abraham himself, set onto the wall beside a woman of golden hair and a face so fine it could have belonged to a goddess. The woman herself appeared at the far end of the corridor, her appearance even more striking in real life. I dipped my head as Belmont bowed his own. But my eyes crept up to absorb her once more. She was near-regal in a dress of gold satin and jewellery that would have made Queen Victoria herself rife with envy.

"Madam Helsing." Belmont took the woman's fair hand, laying a kiss on the back of it.

"Please, do call me Katherine," she answered. "My mother-in-law is Madam Helsing."

Abraham chuckled softly, looping an arm around his wife's slim waist. They looked hewn from stone, too beautiful, too perfect. It unsettled me and it took a moment for me to understand why. I had been a master of deception most of my life. And it struck me that this alluring couple were not what they seemed. This was an act I'd played well, to sell the alchemist's fraud potions. No doubt, these Helsings were hoping to grow more familiar with Belmont's money than they were with him.

"Varick will show you to your rooms." Katherine snapped her fingers harshly and from the shadows of a nearby stairwell, emerged a man. My heart pattered unsteadily in my chest. This man was not like any I had ever seen. His hair, though clearly long, was tied back with a dark ribbon. His skin was pallid, almost translucent beneath the amber glow of a nearby torch. He was tall, broad-shouldered and thick with muscle. But none of those things frightened me quite so much as his eyes. Eyes of molten glass. Bottle green. They spoke of a hunger that had nothing to do with food. More like murder.

I felt some of the servants shrink back behind me, but I kept my shoulders squared toward him, my head tall. I would not let him see me frightened. It was a tactic I was more accustomed to employing with street dogs, but something in this man's manner told me he was as rabid as one of them.

Belmont cleared his throat. "Is he quite obedient?"

Abraham laughed in a deep, rolling tone. "He is as placid as a rabbit until I tell him to be otherwise. Aren't you, Varick?"

Varick's eyes slid slowly from Abraham to Belmont. "Yes, sir."

Katherine smiled, her eyes narrowed on Varick as he gestured for us to follow him. Belmont led the way forward, somewhat reluctantly.

Varick took a torch from the wall, heading into the dark stairwell. A winding stone staircase led us up several floors and we emerged in a grand corridor of wooden floorboards and a thick red rug running across its centre. Gas lanterns illuminated the place better than the floors below, giving this part of the castle a more homely feel. Especially when we were led into a grand room of Georgian décor. It was tastefully done, the large four-poster dripping in soft blankets and pillows. I didn't imagine the servants' quarters would be so fine.

We placed Belmont's bags down and the maid, Julie, started unpacking them. She was often appointed to organising Belmont's personal space, whether at home or away.

"When do the festivities begin?" Belmont asked Varick as he drifted toward the door, clearly meaning to leave. His eyes were fixed firmly on Martha as she worked, that hungry look returning to his gaze. He turned his head to face Belmont, his movements slow, concise, as if he had all the time in the world. "The ball will begin in two hours. You will have a chance to meet the girls and place your first bets."

"Wonderful," Belmont answered, rubbing his hands together. "Is there a good haul this year?"

"As always," Varick remarked. He blinked slowly, his gaze shifting to me. It seemed as though cold hands were slithering around my throat. "I will wait in the corridor. When your servants are ready, I will show them to their rooms." He headed out of the door before Belmont could ask another question.

"Vampires," Belmont muttered, starting to unbutton his moleskin. John rushed forward to take it from his shoulders.

I laughed and Belmont straightened, his attention wheeling to me. "Something funny, boy?" I'd been working for him for nearly six months, but he liked to pretend he didn't know my name.

"Vampires?" I questioned rather boldly. "There's no such thing."

Julie shot me a look through her dark ringlets.

Belmont looked amused for a moment. "Go and ask Varick yourself, if you don't believe me."

The other servants looked to me, daring me to do it. I puffed out my chest, walking out of the room, appearing much braver than I felt. Vampires? I was no fool. I wasn't going to fall for Belmont's misguided beliefs.

Varick was standing across the hall, his arms folded. His shirt seemed much too thin for an icily cold place like this island. Even with the fires burning about the place, they didn't rid the chill in the air. But that didn't make him a Vampire.

He sucked in one cheek as he eyed me, his eyes seeming bloodshot up close. He didn't say a word, evidently waiting for me to speak first.

I cleared my throat, shoving my hands into my pockets to stop my fidgeting as I approached. "There's some strange tales about this place," I said, trying out the tone I'd used on customers in the past. Chatty. Friendly. Charming. I had the gift of the gab. It appeared this man did not agree as he simply gazed at me with a coldness in his expression that ate at my insides.

I pressed on, moving closer still. "Lord Belmont seems to be under the impression there are Vampires living here. And that you are one of them." I started to laugh, but at Varick's narrowing gaze, I fell quiet.

His mouth curled up at one corner, twisting into a cruel smile. "It's almost embarrassing how little most humans know of the world. But I suppose I was like you once..." He glanced away, seeming to be done with the conversation already.

I took another step closer, tilting my head in a mocking kind of way.

He raised a brow, taking in my expression. "I can't decide whether you are truly ignorant, or simply a fool."

"I'd rather be neither," I said quickly, affronted. But I wasn't done hunting for my answers yet. I needed him to deny Belmont's foolish beliefs so I could have some peace of mind. Admittedly, I was having doubts myself right then, looking into the cold eyes of a man who, it was hard to deny, did look rather hungry. But for blood? Surely not.

"Say it, go on. Tell me you're a Vampire." A chuckle was forming in my throat but Varick seemed the least bit amused.

"I am a Vampire," he drawled, standing upright.

I was tall, but this man was unnaturally so. I gazed up at him, a lump forming in my throat.

"Liar," I dared, barely a breath of a word.

At speed, he gripped my throat, twisting sharply around and throwing me back against the wall he'd just been stood against. He pressed himself close to me, opening his mouth and baring fangs. Actual fangs, glinting and sharp.

I recoiled. His strength was phenomenal. I gripped his wrist which was as cold as ice. My street fighting skills would prove me no good against this man.

Varick's upper lip curled back. "I am ordered to offer courtesy to the Helsings' guests. You are just a lowly servant, and I am hungrier than you can imagine. If you wish to keep your blood in your veins, do not address me so impertinently. This is not a place to make enemies. Least of all with me."

I nodded wildly, realising my feet were nearly an inch above the ground. My breath was being choked out of me second by second. "Y-yes – yes," I managed under the pressure of his grip.

He released me and I hit the floor on my arse. As he stepped aside, I heard snickering, spotting the other servants gathered in the doorway across the hall. The door was half-closed and as Varick turned his gaze their way, they slammed it shut.

Varick released a growl, turning to me and yanking me to my feet. I brushed down my coat, shame flowing through me, my pride badly wounded. I never took to losing very well.

I dipped my head to Varick, muttering an apology before walking back across the hall.

"I will show you to your room," Varick spoke before I made it to the door. "Your party sounds rather busy making fun of you."

I gazed toward the door, unable to hear such a thing myself, but Varick's expression assured me he could detect it. Another Vampire trait, I supposed.

I was still in shock from the truth. Vampires? How was it possible? Such creatures defied the natural order of things.

I cleared my throat, gesturing for Varick to lead the way. He took a torch from the wall, heading back into the stairwell, and down, down, down we travelled until we were surely beneath the castle. The air was frigid now and I clung in vane to the heat of the torch Varick was carrying, gathering my thin coat tighter around me.

Varick glanced over his shoulder, his brows lowering. "Your master did not prepare you for this place. That is perhaps a cruelty in itself."

"Well...maybe you can enlighten me?"

Varick's mouth twitched as if in amusement, but the mirth was gone as quickly as it had arrived. "I already have the job of explaining it to the girls. I do not wish to do so twice."

"Then I shall remain blind?"

"It depends if Lord Belmont allows you to attend the game. If he does not, you shall leave this place as ignorant as you are now. A blessing, I assure you."

"I do not see ignorance as a blessing," I muttered, not intending him to hear.

"You will," he answered smoothly. "If you are truly inquisitive by nature- and judging from your behaviour thus far, I have reason to assume you are- then you will do well to keep your nose out of things here."

"My behaviour? What is that supposed to mean?" I demanded as we arrived in a corridor of what seemed to be cells, hidden behind plain wooden doors. Surely I wouldn't have to stay here? I'd freeze to death before tomorrow.

"It means you are a questioner. That you will not let things simply be."

"And why should I?" My backbone had been reinstated since Varick's recent attack. I wasn't sure why I was pushing him, especially considering we were now alone in a quiet part of the castle. Perhaps I was a fool after all.

Varick rounded on me, gazing down his nose. "You may wish to change the things you see here. Help those who appear in trouble. But you cannot. There are two types of people who walk into this castle. The living, and the dead. To remain amongst the living, you must keep your flapping lips sealed."

"Why are you helping me?" I narrowed my gaze.

He spat a dark laugh. "I am giving you the warning every servant gets in this place. Eyes down, mouth shut. Unless you want to know what it feels like to have all of the blood in your veins drunk. Many of my victims stay awake until the very last second."

I backed up, my spine hitting the cold wall.

His lip curled back in a snarl. "This way," he growled, heading past the cells.

A girl's voice rang out from behind one of the doors. "Hello? Is someone there? Please – help me!"

I halted, fear trickling into my blood. Varick gave me a look that reminded me of his warning.

Eyes down, mouth shut.

I hesitated a moment longer as the woman started to beg, louder and louder. Then other female voices joined her. Many English, but some were foreign. French, Spanish. I even detected some Latin prayers.

Varick surveyed me, and I suspected he'd planned this, taken me here on purpose. A test of my cooperation.

I dropped my eyes, pressed my lips together and kept walking. But my soul ripped in two as I did so, as if God himself had smote me for my cowardice.

Words surged inside me. Full of shame and hate. I would bend them into a letter for Evangeline when next I had a moment's peace. Words were becoming like comfort food to me. She had encouraged me to express my emotions through ink, but sometimes they were so powerful they may as well have been written in blood.

Varick led me up a stairwell and we finally arrived in the servants' quarters. He gestured to a wooden door and I headed inside, finding a series of bunk beds laid out across the room. I would have to share with the other men in Belmont's entourage. Not something I would enjoy. I despised most of them.

I sighed, taking one of the bottom bunks and dropping my bag onto it, glad to be free of Varick's presence as he shut the door. I took out some rolling tobacco and papers, needing the sweet release of nicotine. Three smokes later, I had started to write a letter to my dear Evangeline.

I fear putting my true thoughts into words, dearest Eve. I cannot tell you much of this place I am visiting with Lord Belmont. But I will tell you of the biting cold, the echoing corridors and the screaming wind. Sometimes it is not the wind which cries. But I daren't write about that. I have been warned by a man more fearsome than a hangman's dog. And yet, it is not he I fear most in this place. It is the beauty...the money. It almost has a smell, my Eve.

It comforts me some to think of you at home, wrapped in cotton sheets, safe from harm. I will yearn for your company until my return.

From the sea to the stars, I love you.

It was a little saying Evangeline and I had come up with once. Based upon the mural painted in her bedroom. The sea splashed across the curb, the stars speckling the ceiling.

"How far do you think it is, from the sea to the stars?" Eve had murmured as we sat side by side at her window.

"Very far indeed, I'm not sure a man could travel there alone," I'd replied, boldly reaching out to trail my fingers over her glossy hair.

"Then perhaps we can travel together one day," she'd whispered, her lips like two red shells, one atop the other. We'd laughed softly. I recalled the way her breath had sent a heated trail across my neck.

I'd leaned in, closer and closer still. I shouldn't have. It was wrong of me. A gentleman did not steal kisses. But even now, I had not an ounce of regret in me for it. I'd memorised the moment, scorched it into my skull, knowing I would possess it until the end of time. The first feel of her full lips against mine. The racing of my heart. The heat spreading through my veins like melted candle wax.

"I love you from the sea to the stars, Evangeline."

"Truly? That far?" she'd asked, her eyes as bright as two fires.

"Yes, and perhaps a little further, too."

I rolled onto my back, folding up the letter and pushing it into my breast pocket. I couldn't send it, so I'd keep it close until I returned to England. I'd watch as she read the words, her eyes sprinting back and forth across the page. She devoured books like they were peppermints. I didn't have the gift of such things. It took me weeks to complete a novel, but not Evangeline. She was keen-eyed, curious, bright. And Lord knew, I was glad she would never step foot in a place like this.

The room slowly filled and I knew I'd be sick of the men's company by the time this trip was over.

"Belmont wants a companion to carry his shit whilst out on the island tomorrow," Gareth said from across the room. "I ain't doing it."

"Nor me," Adam said from the bunk above me.

"That leaves you, new boy," John said, kicking the foot of my bed. "Belmont's already asked for you anyway."

I'd been working for Belmont for months now. I was hardly the new boy. I glanced at John with a shrug. "Beats lying around here all week."

John laughed, dipping his head to look me in the eye. He irritated me almost as much as Gareth. They both made it their personal mission to make sure I had the worst jobs in Belmont's household. I knew it was their way of testing me. But they didn't know what I did. That I was not going to be around long enough for it to matter. I was going to run off into the sunset with as many of Belmont's prized possessions as I could. And take my beautiful girl with me. I was happy to let them think of me as a weak link. That was how I played out a con like this. Pretending to be the victim type, the sort of man no one suspected of anything. Until it was too late. They didn't know of my street brawls. Of the way I could choke a man into submission with one arm.

"Those Vampires are hungry for young blood," John taunted. "Kid like you won't last five minutes out on that island."

Kid? I was nineteen. John was barely a year older than me and had nothing of the muscle I possessed.

"Leave him be," Adam's voice sailed from above. "I don't want him shitting himself in his sleep and waking me up with the stench."

I kicked off my shoes, grinding my jaw. I forced myself not to bite back at them. I could probably have taken on all three of them in a fist fight. The scars on my chest proved it. Some posh twat had once thrown punches at me with a signet ring on his finger whilst his buddies held my arms behind my back. Coward. I might have deserved it, considering I'd sold his wife a dodgy batch of beauty elixir that had made all of her hair fall out. But I'd played weak then, too. Slumped in their arms, pretending to be unconscious. When they released me, I beat the living daylights out of their ringleader.

I rolled over, ignoring their jibes, reminding myself that I was going to lead the life of a king one day. And they would be left wiping Lord Belmont's rear end until the day they died.
JONAH

Belmont was a paranoid kind of man. That was why he wanted one of his servants to accompany him out onto the island for the first round of the 'V Games'. I hadn't been told much of what to expect. But I was given warm furs to wear by the Helsings' staff, finer than anything I had ever owned. I spent half the morning wondering if I could get away with stealing them.

The spectators were gathered in the games room which was located off of the main hall. Poker tables filled the cavernous space. The ceiling arched above us, carved from grey stone with impressive curving struts holding up the roof. Hardwood floors, hand-carved tables. Staff stood in all corners with silver trays filled with gleaming chalices. Beside me was a breakfast table that spanned the length of the room. The salty smell of eggs and cooked meat reached my nose. I drifted closer to it, sliding my hand behind my back as I grasped a lump of bread that crunched softly in my hand. My mouth watered. When was the last time I'd had fresh bread?

Amongst the spectators was Belmont, his chest puffed out as he shared some joke with a group of the men. Twenty six in total, all dressed in clothes that put my borrowed furs to shame.

None of the other men had servants with them. I carried a bag filled with a flask of water and food I'd collected from the kitchen that morning. Belmont didn't consume anything his own servants hadn't prepared. And it satisfied me to know how much trust he'd laid in me already. When the time came, stealing from him would be easy.

One of the maids had told me Belmont had been poisoned a few years ago. Apparently he had some old feud with his brother over their inheritance. They had been mortal enemies ever since. And after he'd survived the attack, paranoia had bled into all parts of his life. A fact which had made this con drag on longer than I'd have liked. Getting close to his assets had proved a tricky task. But I wasn't done trying yet.

Abraham entered the room through the large wooden doors, a fine, blood-red cape draped around his shoulders. He resembled a king in all his finery. A silver clasp held his cape in place in the shape of a fanged skull. A symbol which could be found in most parts of the castle, it seemed. The Helsing family crest portrayed it, too. A hundred of those fanged skulls mounded into a triangle, atop which a beady-eyed raven perched.

Power emanated from Abraham as he strode through the room, the men falling silent as they noted his presence. I spotted a young girl peering through the door behind him. Blonde, like Abraham, her eyes azure and sparkling. She was surely his daughter. And as she caught my eye, she giggled then scurried away.

"Good morning!" Abraham boomed, clasping his hands together. "You shall soon be escorted onto the island. I hope you enjoyed the viewing of the contestants last night?"

A few of the men chuckled and some muttered filthy comments that made me grimace. From their murmuring I gathered the 'contestants' were female. A strange idea. What sort of game would they be playing for these men's entertainment?

The door opened again and Varick stepped into the room in a dark robe lined with fur. The men hushed at his arrival, his presence emitting danger. I didn't much like the man, but quickly adjusted my stance into one of casual disinterest. I buttered the bread in my hand, taking a large bite. All thoughts of the games abandoned me as the salty butter melted across my tongue, the ripeness of the bread making me release a little groan of satisfaction. It was the food of royalty. And I devoured the slice in mere moments, hungering for more.

"Jonah," Belmont hissed, clicking his fingers sharply. I trotted to his side, swallowing the final bite of bread.

"Varick will show you to the cable cars," Abraham announced. "You will have the finest seats imaginable."

"What of the Vampires, sir? Will we be safe?" a young man asked. He had a bead of sweat on his creased brow. Apparently, he was as new to these games as I was.

The excited chattering in the room made me fearful. Many of these men had evidently attended these games before. They knew something I didn't.

"You will be quite safe, I assure you," Abraham said. "So long as you adhere to the rules Varick outlines for you." He gestured for the group to follow Varick and a few of the more confident men led the way forward. I fell into step at Belmont's side whilst he chatted with another spectator. Abraham followed at the back of the group, his loud voice carrying to me as he spoke with some of the men.

"We have a fine selection of women this year, do we not?" he asked.

"True beauties, indeed. But that rarely predicts their ability to win," one of the men answered.

"Who did you bet on?" Abraham asked.

"The Spanish girl. Fiery blood, those Spaniards. I believe she will make a fine little fighter."

Fighter? What would these girls be expected to do? I had never come across a female boxer in all my years of fighting.

"The golden-haired English girl is my favourite," another answered.

I glanced over my shoulder as we exited into the main corridor, spying his thick grey hair and weathered features. His companion nudged him, laughing. "That is only because you wish to bed her. Which you can only do if she wins. And a delicate flower like her won't last five minutes out on that island."

"The pretty ones have won before," the man replied with a smirk.

I wrinkled my nose, turning away.

Varick led us through the castle toward the main entrance. The excitement in the air grew palpable as he opened the front door. We marched through the stone courtyard, the half moon glowing down on us. A path was lit by fiery torches and Varick led us along it, guiding us away from the vast stone steps which led down to the dock.

We headed into a dark forest just as snow began to fall, the little flakes floating and dancing around me in the breeze. I pulled my furs tighter around me, shivering against the violent cold. I had thought England was freezing in the winter months, but this was something else entirely.

The path opened out and a stone building emerged from between the boughs. The wind blew and the trees seemed to whisper warnings with their rustling leaves. I glanced at Belmont whose eyes were bright with excitement. It only served to concern me more.

Varick led us into the stone building and a roaring fire lit the place, warming me down to my toes. I barely noticed it in comparison to the other sight in front of me. A golden cable car sat before us, suspended on a thick cable which led out of a large hole in the roof above. A red streak ran around the outside of the car beneath a ring of windows. I held my breath as Varick approached it, opening the door.

"Five men in each," he growled, gesturing for us to step closer. Some of the more eager men went first, hurrying inside.

Varick stepped after them and I watched, unable to hear him as he spoke to them. A moment later, he reappeared, pulling a huge iron lever near the wall. The car jerked forward then rose above our heads, sliding up the cable before disappearing through the round hole in the wall.

I jumped as another car appeared through a hole in the wall opposite, sliding smoothly down the cable before coming to a stop before us.

"I'll go with the next group," Abraham said, moving through the crowd and leading the way into it. The men he'd been speaking with followed and two more joined them. When their car had departed, the hairs on the back of my neck stood to attention.

Belmont seemed in no hurry to depart, chatting idly with two of the men. One of them was fingering a silver blade. "Silver cuts right through their skin. I wasn't coming anywhere near this place again without being armed."

Belmont lifted his cane, twisting the end to reveal the silver blade inside. "I always come prepared, too." They chortled together.

Another two cars departed before just five of us were left. Including Varick. I prayed he wouldn't be accompanying us, but that wish was doused as he followed us into the car, flicking the lever as he did so. He slid the door shut and I nearly lost my footing as the car jerked upwards. The space was large, filled with red velvet seats by each of the windows, facing outwards. An open wooden box was packed with food and wine, enough to feed a whole village, it seemed. I dropped onto a seat, gazing out of the window directly before me.

"Rules," Varick announced, seeming bored. "No jumping, no rocking the car, no shooting, no opening the door, no exiting the car at any times during the ride. Oh and most importantly, no talking back to me. You can omit talking to me entirely if you prefer. It will not bother me in the slightest."

Belmont and his friends nodded vaguely, ignoring him, but I couldn't help but eye Varick curiously. He unsettled me even more now I knew what he was. But it was still hard to accept the truth.

We ascended from the station and the forest dropped away below us. The moon cast enough light to see far over the canopy, but it was illuminated tenfold as spotlights came to life beneath us, shining down from the base of our cable car. I could see the bulbs beneath the car up ahead, lighting up the forest below.

"Ah, electricity," Belmont said. "I have just had it installed in my own home."

Varick ignored him, his back pressed to the window at the front of the car. He didn't seem interested in the view, his gaze focused on us. Some of the other men indulged Belmont, but everyone seemed fixated on the view beyond the panes.

"Water." Belmont snapped his fingers at me and I produced the flask from my bag. He took it, swigging down a large gulp before passing it back without looking at me. Varick eyed the interaction impassively.

"We're approaching the first game zone," Varick announced and all eyes turned to the windows. The car sailed over a thick forest before climbing up above a vast plain of land that ran toward a line of steep cliffs. In the distance, I could make out a lighthouse, its bright beam swinging in a wide arc over the black sea.

"There – there!" one of the spectators jumped out of his seat, pressing his face to the window. The others mimicked him, gazing down at the land below.

I frowned, following suit, spotting a girl running out of the trees in the direction of the lighthouse. A dark blue cape fluttered out behind her. As she ran under the lights of our car, she glanced up at us, squinting. A white stake was gripped in her hand. Her eyes were wild with fear as she turned fully to face us, starting to wave her hands.

Belmont laughed. "She thinks we're here to save her."

The other men guffawed and my gut plummeted. What the hell kind of game was this?

The girl jumped up and down, waving her arms madly. Two shadows flew in her direction, barely visible with how swiftly they moved. They collided with her and she was dragged to the ground. Blood spewed around her. I gasped, stepping back, shaking my head as I watched. They were eating her. Two haggard men, pinning her to the ground, her blood spilling everywhere as they tore into her throat.

I continued to step back, the blood draining from my face. "What is this?" I demanded, unable to bite my tongue.

Belmont glanced over at me. "Sit down and shut up."

I didn't listen, reaching the other side of the car and pressing my back to it. Screams tore through the air and horror gripped my heart. They were just girls. Young girls all being cut down viciously by...Vampires.

I hardly dared believe it, but I'd seen the truth with my own eyes. I glanced at Varick who gave me a hint of a smile. And there were his own fangs as clear as day.

I grew panicked. I didn't want to be in this car with one of those things.

I ran toward the door, ripping it open and the icy air flew around me. Varick caught my arm and I turned in alarm, trying to tug my arm free of him.

"Get away!" I roared, throwing a punch. He dodged it with such speed, I barely saw him move. Then his hand was around my throat, dragging me further inside.

"Good God, Belmont. Didn't you tell your man what to expect?" one of the spectators asked, his eyes on me.

Belmont shrugged.

I fought against Varick and no one in the whole cable car seemed to care what was happening.

"Let go of me, vile beast!" I punched him again, but his skin was as tough as stone, causing a wave of pain to flare up my arm.

Varick shoved me back and I stumbled, falling into a seat. He stepped closer, his shadow falling over me.

A lump rose in my throat as I glared at him. "Get away from me."

The men started cheering. "Go on, my beauty! Get to the lighthouse!"

"No chance, she's a goner."

"She's going to make it!" Belmont cried. "Come on, girl. Go on, my sweet Evangeline."

My blood turned to ice. That name made me pause. Made me forget my fear. But it couldn't be the same girl. Just a coincidence.

All the same, I stood and Varick leered at me as I moved to the window. I gazed out across the field. Some of the cars up ahead illuminated the field in patches of light. A girl was running flat-out toward a narrow piece of land that led to the lighthouse. She wore a sea-green cape that fluttered out behind her. Her hair was as golden as my Evangeline's.

"It's not her," I murmured under my breath and Belmont turned to me, a grin on his face.

"Oh, did I forget to mention? Your whore is here."

Ice swept through my bones. I shook my head. But the most frightening thing of all was how Belmont had referred to Evangeline. As mine. Which meant he knew the truth.

Belmont's smile grew. "I know all about you, Jonah. How you sneak out to see the pretty girl who no one's allowed to fuck. I know you've been trying to con me for months. You work for my brother, don't you, you wretch?" He shoved me and I stumbled back.

"Why did you bring me here?" I demanded, concerned about the lack of advantage I had in the confines of this car. My fists could probably take on all of these men, but not Varick. And Belmont knew it. He'd brought me here on purpose, to hurt me, corner me. And the stupid thing was, he was wrong. In part anyway. I didn't work for his brother. But I supposed someone like Belmont would suspect such a thing. He was too proud to believe a poor servant could con him alone.

"Because I'm going to make you watch your girl die. As punishment. I made a deal with Abraham to bring her here."

"You're mad!" I cried. "You can't do this."

"It's already done," Belmont said, stepping closer to me. "And when she's dead, I'll have you strung upside down from a tree, slit your throat and leave you for the Vampires."

I backed up, my muscles tensing all over. No. This is not happening.

"I don't work for your brother," I growled.

"Liar." Belmont spat at my feet.

I glanced at Varick who seemed less than amused by these revelations. The car door was still open. One of the men had discarded a gun on the seat beside it. My only option was staring me in the face.

I'm coming for you Evangeline.

I lunged forward, snatched the gun and stepped out of the car.

JONAH

A small ledge of metal ringed the cable car, allowing me to move around it, side-stepping along. The frigid wind bit at my cheeks. The drop would certainly kill me. But I had to get down there somehow. Had to get to Evangeline.

"For Christ's sake," Varick growled, leaning out of the car. "Get back inside."

"No!" I shouted, shuffling further along the ledge.

Belmont was laughing. "Fall to your death then. That will hardly save her."

My knuckles turned white as I clung to the metal casing of the car. It was ice-cold and sent goosebumps sprawling up my arms. The car was moving toward a tall support tower of metal struts. At this speed, we'd move through it in less than a minute. I just had to hold on till then. But what would come next made fear drive a dagger into my heart.

"Shit, shit, shit." I closed my eyes, steadying my breathing.

"Go fetch him," Belmont ordered Varick.

Varick gave him a cool look before stepping out onto the edge of the car, following me. He moved easily around it, the fall evidently giving him no cause for concern.

I aimed the gun at him. "Stop," I commanded.

He let out a frustrated sigh. "Just get back inside, you fool."

The car wobbled as we lifted into the square gap in the tower. I almost lost my footing, clinging wildly to the side of the car, my fingers going numb from how tightly I was holding on.

We were fifty feet up. But I had to do this. For Evangeline.

Bracing myself, the car slid into the gap in the tower. And that was it. I had to jump. I had no time left to question it. I cried out, leaping forward, reaching for the bars. I slammed into a steel strut, gripping it with all my might and bracing my feet on the one below. I glanced back, spying Varick holding onto the cable car with one arm, his dark cape billowing around him in the wind. The car slid out of the tower and Belmont and the other spectators gazed at me in surprise.

Evidently I wasn't worth pursuing, because Varick stepped smoothly back inside the car and shut the door.

I was left in darkness with only a dim red light shining atop the tower, the moon now sheathed in clouds.

What have I done?

I was fifty feet up above a forest full of Vampires. And the only thing I could do was keep going, try to make it to Evangeline. I conjured the image of her soft features, her shining eyes.

Slowly, I started to descended, carefully moving from one bar to the next. Some of the struts glimmered with frost, making my shoes slip and slide as I went.

My heart was in my throat.

My biceps strained as I lowered myself to the next level. Down, down, down, until the frozen ground was only a few feet below me. I dropped onto it, stumbling as I regained my balance. I gazed up at the tower, at the cable cars travelling off into the distance toward the lighthouse.

That was where I'd last seen Evangeline. So that was where I had to go. I started in that direction, moving away from the dark forest behind me.

Fear bloomed in my chest. I gripped the gun tighter. I wasn't accustomed to guns, but it seemed fairly self-explanatory. Aim and pull the trigger. I could do that.

I quickened my marching pace to a jog.

Screams carried to me on the night air, making my blood curdle.

A howling wind swept across the plain before me. I was so exposed. If a Vampire was close, it would soon spot me out here.

I ran on, sprinting in the direction of the lighthouse.

A woman shrieked behind me.

I turned, spotting her flying toward me from the trees. She wore an ebony cape, almost as dark as her skin. She tore in my direction, the whites of her eyes like moonlight. I slowed my pace as she caught up with me, gripping my arm. Her nails were bloody and torn, the white stake in her hand caked with dark blood. She lifted it, slamming it toward my chest.

I cried out, knocking her arm aside, a wild glint in her eye. She threw her weight at me, trying to aim the stake again. "Devil!" she screamed at me.

In a moment of clarity, I realised she thought I was one of them. The Vampires.

"I'm human!" I snapped, blocking another blow and shoving her back with a ferocity I would never normally have used against a woman. But she seemed crazed with fear, diving at me again with slashing blows. The stake tore down my arm and blood spilled. I pushed her hard and she hit the ground.

"I'm not a Vampire," I insisted, stepping back.

She gazed up at me, shaking her head, clearly not convinced. But as her eyes sailed over me, the truth shone in them. But before I could help her up, a shadow descended on us. The near-naked body of a woman dove over the girl, barreling into me. Her mouth clamped around the wound on my arm, sucking like a demon creature. I kicked out hard, trying to get her off, but her strength was unfathomable. Her nails raked across my skin as she drank from me. A powerful strike from her hand knocked me to the ground and she scrambled up my body like wraith, sinking her teeth into my neck. I shouted out in agony, bringing the gun up, pressing it to her temple. With a bang that made my ears ring, she fell atop me, dead.

I threw her limp body off of me. The girl in the dark cloak was gone. I spotted her sprinting off in the distance toward the lighthouse.

I scrambled to my feet, clasping my bleeding neck. I started running, growing woozy as the blood poured hot and fast down my front.

Panic snared my heart.

I stumbled in the direction the girl had taken, half blind as my vision clouded. The girl ahead of me glanced over her shoulder, her eyes narrowing. I nearly fell as my foot caught on a large rock.

The girl called out to me and I was just able to hear her on the wind. "Drink the blood! It will heal you!"

My first thought was that she'd gone mad. The second, that she meant my own blood. Then the answer came to me in a moment of clarity. Blackish blood was sprayed down my cape from where I'd shot the Vampire. I wiped a drop onto my fingers, my legs starting to give out.

I grimaced, unsure if this would work, but it was either that or collapse here and become food for the Vampires. I licked it from my fingers and a sickly, metallic taste rolled down my throat. I had to force myself not to spit it out, but after a moment, my vision began to clear. The throbbing ache in my neck eased away and I found my pace picking up.

Impossible.

Somehow, my body was healing and I was soon running flat out, charging directly toward the rocky black slice of land that led to the lighthouse. I caught up with the girl who'd helped me, panting a thank you. She ignored me, her eyes set on the lighthouse ahead.

Light poured over me as a cable car passed overhead, the cable running directly over the rocky outcrop.

Men called out to me, heckling me. And Abraham's booming voice followed. "Get out of my game you insolent boy!"

I didn't look back as I reached the lighthouse door, throwing it open. The girl followed me inside, panting heavily.

I sprinted up the stone stairs before me, lit by torches on the walls. The flames thawed out my frozen bones as I ran, hunting for my Evangeline. I tore into a large room, finding girls gathered around a table of food.

I spotted her amongst the group, her golden hair like a beacon to me.

"Eve!" I cried, running toward her. She turned, her eyes wide and alarmed. A slim cut ran across her cheek, but apart from that, she looked miraculously well.

"Jonah?" she gasped as I barreled into her, crushing her to my chest.

She let out a noise of relief, gripping me tightly. "Is it truly you? How is it possible?"

"Belmont brought me here," I murmured into her hair. She smelt like fresh pine.

Her lips found mine and the world dimmed. Her mouth was puffy and cold. I kissed her until she felt at least as warm as me.

Adrenaline bled through my muscles. I needed to get her out of here. And fast.

"Have you come to save us?" a small voice asked and I broke apart from Eve, keeping her hand in mine. The girls looked to me with wide, hopeful eyes and my gut constricted uncomfortably.

"I -er-"

"No, he hasn't." Varick strode into the room, looking fierce. He slammed the door behind him with a bang that echoed through the entire lighthouse. His eyes were pinned on me, full of hellfire. I pushed Evangeline behind me, my stance aggressive.

"Let us go," I snarled.

Varick folded his arms, his eyes narrowing. "You can walk out of here without protest, or you can choose the more painful option. And trust me when I say, there is no one on this island protecting you. I make you this offer once. And once only. Life or death. Which will it be?"

Eve's nails tore into my arms. "Go with him, Jonah. I can't see you hurt."

"You'll die out here," I growled, shaking my head.

"Not for certain," she breathed against my neck.

She was so strong, stronger than I ever knew. "I won't leave you," I whispered, but Varick evidently heard.

"You will, or you'll die."

Evangeline stepped around me, her stake raised, the white tip crusted with blood. What had she done already to survive? It pained me to think of it. A few more of the girls stepped forward, stakes raised, including the girl I'd met out on the plain.

"He's just one Vampire," Evangeline said to the others and more joined her sides, some of their hands shaking as they raised their weapons.

I took the gun from where I'd stuffed it in my waistband, keeping close to Eve's side as I pointed it at Varick.

Varick sighed wearily. "You cannot wi-"

I took the shot - BANG.

Varick stumbled back as the bullet hit his shoulder. He clasped the wound, pain flaring in his eyes. His upper lip peeled back on a snarl.

"They're silver bullets!" one of the girls cried. "Shoot him again!"

I stepped forward, but Varick flew at me, a blur in the room, knocking me to the ground. The breath left my lungs from the force he used, my spine slamming into the floorboards. I clawed at his thick shoulders, but his skin was like iron. He cracked my head back against the floor and a groan left my mouth.

I managed to press the barrel to his side and took another shot. He lurched sideways, roaring his anger.

"Run, Eve!" I cried and several pairs of footsteps pounded through the room.

As Varick tore at his shirt, ripping it from his chest to reach the wounds, I got to my feet. I spied him digging his finger into the first bullet hole and I grimaced as he squeezed it out. The wound knitted over and I started running. As soon as the second bullet was free, I was done for.

Eve was waiting for me by the door, the other girls having evacuated, apart from one who was rocking back and forth on the floor. Eve tried to go to her, but I took her wrist, dragging her out into the dark stairwell. "There's no time to help!"

We fled down the stairs two at a time, barely slowing as we pushed through the door.

The girls were sprinting along the cliff edge. In the distance I spied the hulking shadow of the castle, the lights of the cable cars drawing closer to it as they returned to the station.

The whinny of a horse caught my ear and I tugged Eve to a halt, listening. In a nearby copse, I spied a flickering light. On instinct, I tugged Eve in that direction, shaking my head when she went to call out to the other girls.

"We need to split up, it's our best chance," I hissed, smothering the guilt in my gut. I couldn't help them all. It wasn't possible.

Eve's brows pulled together, but she nodded, gripping my hand. We darted into the trees, slowing our pace. I spied a thick silver fence of bars ringing a large corral. Horses moved in and out of a stable, nearly thirty of them. The scent of manure filled the air.

Carefully, I laid my hand against one of the silver bars. It was icy to the touch. The bars were close together. I'd barely squeeze through them, but Evangeline would make it just fine.

"Can you manage?" I asked, but she was already halfway through, sliding under the lowest bar and into the muddy pen.

A snarl sounded behind me and shudder rolled down my spine.

"Open the gate," I urged, gesturing toward it several metres away. I followed her along the fence to where the gate was, but it was bolted with a large padlock.

A crack of twigs made me turn toward the trees.

"Jonah!" Eve gasped just as a heavy weight collided with me. I was thrown back against the bars, my spine pressing hard into the gate. A bony Vampire slashed at me, his eyes bloodshot and desperate. His filthy nails raked over my arms as I tried to hold him off. But my strength started to fail.

I felt Eve's hands roaming over my sides, her frantic breaths in my ear. She pulled the gun from my waistband and a loud shot went off that reverberated through the gate behind me.

The gate swung inward and I hit the ground, throwing up my forearm as the Vampire fell atop me and sunk his fangs into it. Another shot was fired and the thing fell dead atop me. Eve came into view, the gun smoking at the barrel. She was more beautiful in that moment than she'd ever been. Wild and fierce. Something I'd never realised I wanted in a woman until right then.

I threw the Vampire from me and Eve tugged my arm to help me up. It was bleeding profusely and Eve quickly ducked down to the dead creature, pressing her fingers into the gunshot between its eyes. I grimaced as she stood, holding her hand up to my mouth.

"Drink," she whispered, her hand trembling. I took her wrist, sucking the blood from her fingers, disgusted at the shameful act. But it was worth it as the skin on my arm knitted together and I heaved a sigh. I ran a thumb across Eve's cheek. It seemed suddenly apparent that we didn't know each other that well at all. That my time courting her had been pleasant, but we'd barely scratched the surface of who we really were. And Eve was turning out to be more amazing than I could ever have imagined. Not that I would have wished these circumstances on us for the world. But it made me more certain than ever of my feelings toward her.

"Come," she said quietly, leading me into the corral. The horses were spooked by the gunshots, most of them gathered together at one end. I tugged the gate shut in case another Vampire decided to try its luck.

One of the horses had returned to eating hay from a bag hanging on the stable wall. He was white and large. I could tell it was male because of the enormously obvious reason hanging between its legs. He was clearly less frightened than the others, so he was probably our best bet. I'd ridden horses all my life. Preferred it to riding in carriages, in fact. But Eve seemed less confident as I led her toward the animal.

I searched the barn for a bridle and saddle, carrying them out under my arm. Eve rubbed the horse's flank as I saddled it. The animal barely seemed to notice as he continued to eat.

"Where will we go?" Eve whispered as I locked my hands together to give her a boost up onto the horse.

"To the docks." I couldn't think of another option. We had to get off this island. And fast.

"They'll expect us to head there," Eve said in alarm.

I frowned. She was probably right. Perhaps it was best to lie low for a while until Abraham's men stopped looking for us. I lifted Eve up onto the horse. "We'll head to the castle then and find somewhere to hide out."

Eve nodded. "Alright. I trust you." She squeezed my wrist as I pulled myself up behind her, locking my arms around her waist as I took hold of the reins.

I turned the horse about, kicking his sides to get him moving toward the gate. We slid out of the corral and Eve leant down to close the gate behind us.

"They'll eat the horses," she breathed and I pressed a kiss to her frozen cheek. Even now, she cared about such things.

I encouraged the horse into a trot, moving across the land toward the forest. We'd be safer under cover. And I could follow the line of the cables above the canopy to guide our way back.

We were soon moving at a good speed, but Eve began to shiver, taking the brunt of the wind. I wrapped my arms tighter around her, pulling her back against me, my cheek pressed against hers.

We soon broke through the trees and ahead of us the jutting stone walls of the castle rose up toward the night sky. I moved us into the shadow of the leering east tower, hugging the wall as we trotted around the shadowy edge of it.

I hunted for a way in, but the lowest window was at least two stories above us.

Eve ran her thumbs over my hands which felt frozen onto the reins.

"Keep looking," she urged.

We'd almost reached the cable car station and I grew anxious about Varick out here hunting for us. The cars had stopped moving and the fire was burning low inside the building. I guided the horse toward it, slowing to a gentle walk. As we approached, I dropped down, creeping forward and gazing into the station through a small window.

Empty.

I moved back to Eve on the horse, taking the reins and guiding it around and into the building. I shut the large wooden door behind us, sighing a breath of relief. The fire had dimmed to embers, but the heat radiating from it was a gift from God. I helped Eve down and we hurried closer to the fire, warming our hands.

"What now?" Eve asked through chattering teeth.

"We stay here until the hunt dies down," I suggested.

Eve looked concerned. "What if someone comes to use the cars?"

I shook my head. "We'll have to risk it."

Eve nodded, dropping down to the floor before the fire. I joined her, resting my elbows on my knees.

"Thank you," Eve whispered, glancing at me under her lashes. "I was so frightened, Jonah. I thought of you every night since they took me."

A jagged lump lodged in my throat. "I had no idea you were gone. I thought you were safe...at home." I thought of the letter I'd written for her and took it from my breast pocket, handing it to her.

"For you," I answered her questioning look.

I watched as she unfolded the page and her eyes travelled over the words. Her fingers ran across some of them as if she could capture my feelings from the letter. Perhaps she could.

When she finished, she glanced up, tears in her eyes. "From the sea to the stars," she whispered and a smile formed on my lips.

She crawled forward into my arms and I took her kisses hungrily, devouring the feel of her warm body against mine. The horse grunted at our display and I knew I was crossing too many lines. I pressed her back and she curled up on the floor, laying her head in my lap. I ran my fingers through her soft hair, taking comfort from her presence.

"You're strong for a woman," I commented and she glanced up at me, a playful smile on her mouth.

"Or I am simply strong. I'm not sure what being a woman has to do with it."

"Hm." I reflected on that. Perhaps she was right. Women were supposed to behave a certain way in society. Strength was not expected of them, but that wasn't to say they didn't possess it. Eve had proved that theory very wrong.

I threaded my fingers through hers, realising I would be dead without her thus far. I thought of London, of what we would do if we ever got back there.

"Come away with me," I whispered. "When we get back to England. Let's run away and never be found."

She rolled over, taking my hand and pressing my knuckles to her lips. Urges rose inside me that I had to battle away.

"Perhaps we'll go somewhere warm. To Italy, maybe." The smile on her lips said she was teasing, but I'd meant every word.

"We're getting out of here," I confirmed and she nodded, but her eyes glazed with doubt.

A click cut through the air and I sprang to my feet, gun drawn. I gazed at the door, but it didn't open. With a frown, I glanced back at Eve who was on her feet, stake in hand. She shrugged, but the hairs on the back of my neck told me someone was here.

"Over here," a voice hissed.

I turned about, hunting for who had spoken. I spotted two cerulean eyes gazing at me from a concealed hatch in the wall. The girl poked her head out further and bright blonde locks came into view around her young face. I recognised her from the castle. The Helsing child.

We're done for.

She pushed the hatch wider, stepping into the room. She was barely more than eight-years-old, but I kept the gun raised. A large, cream knit jumper swamped her body, hanging almost down to her knees. "You're the ones everyone's looking for." She giggled as she spotted the horse.

"Please," Eve said softly. "Don't tell them where we are."

The girl pursed her lips thoughtfully. "Hm...is it like hide and seek?"

Eve gave me a firm look and I nodded. "Exactly. Do you think you can help keep us hidden?"

The girl tapped her chin. "Well...I am very good at hide and seek. I once hid in the attic for a whole day and no one found me!" She pushed the hatch wider.

Eve hesitated. "Can we trust her?" she murmured.

I pictured us being found and hung from the castle walls, left for the crows to pick clean or worse. My stomach knotted at the possibility. But this girl might be our only hope. And if we didn't go with her now, she might alert someone to our presence anyway.

"Yes," I breathed. "We have to."

I led the way after the girl, ducking my head to fit into the low space. A damp corridor opened up on the other side of the wall. The girl had a candle in her hand to light the way. As Eve followed me into the drafty passage, she closed the hatch behind us.

"What's your name?" I whispered to the girl.

"Mercy Helsing," she answered promptly. "And you're Jonah and Evangeline. I heard the men talking about you. They think I don't know anything around here, but I can get about the whole castle in these passages."

"Even down to the docks?" I asked hopefully.

"Yes...but I don't go down that tunnel..."

"Why not?" I asked.

Mercy glanced back over her shoulder, the candlelight dancing in her baby blue eyes. "It's haunted," she breathed.

I frowned, but she gave me a serious look.

"It is. My brother went down there once and he said there was a ghost down there with his brain hanging out of his head!"

"I think we'll risk it. Perhaps you can show us the way?" I asked.

Mercy fell silent as she considered it. "Alright. I suppose I can do that. But it's on the other side of the castle. We can't stay in the passages the whole way. So you'll have to be really quiet."

My gut constricted, but I simply nodded. What choice did we really have?

A dripping noise carried from up ahead and the ground rose beneath our feet. We met an ancient ladder that didn't look like it would hold my weight. Mercy climbed quickly up it, slipping through a hatch in the ceiling above us. I headed after her, checking the way was clear before Evangeline followed. The rungs creaked loudly but held my weight. As I climbed, Mercy held the hatch wide, waving her hand wildly for me to hurry up. I poked my head into the room above, finding myself in a narrow staircase of stone steps. I hauled myself out, reaching down to help Eve up. When she was beside me, Mercy quietly shut the hatch and pressed her finger to her lips.

I nodded as she headed up the staircase and we followed.

We crept up several levels, pausing on one of them where men were talking out in the corridor beyond us. A thin tapestry hid an entrance into the hallway.

"-heard he jumped out of a cable car!" a man said, laughing loudly.

"Holy shit. What would possess him to do such a thing?"

I squeezed Eve's hand and she gave me a teasing smile as we hurried up the next level after Mercy. She soon paused beside a stone wall, taking hold of a metal ring attached to the brickwork. She twisted it and pushed the concealed door open, poking her head out into the space beyond. She slipped out into the hall and I was just about to follow when a voice rang through the air.

"Mercy! I've been searching all over for you."

"I was playing, Mother."

Shit. Katherine Helsing was just beyond that wall. Mercy left the door slightly ajar, standing in the way of the exit to conceal the gap.

Eve tugged me back and my heart urged me to run.

"Get back to your room this instant," Katherine demanded.

"Okay...but what's the matter?" Mercy asked innocently.

"Nothing that concerns you. Now move."

The second Mercy stepped away, I shrank backwards into the shadows.

Footsteps sounded down the corridor and I let out a breath of relief.

"Should we follow?" Eve whispered in my ear.

"I don't know." I gripped her arm, thinking of turning back. I didn't fancy spending the night in the dark passages beneath the castle, but perhaps it was our best option.

The door flew open and my heart collided with my lungs. "Jesus," I swore at Mercy who was grinning broadly.

"The way is clear. Come on. Hurry." She beckoned me forward and I slowly crept after her.

The corridor was grand and lit with gas lamps; a red carpet ran down the heart of it. The lights flickered as we headed along. I winced at every footstep and creaking floorboard.

Mercy paused at the end of the corridor, gesturing to a spiral staircase. "Go down there one floor, head through the east wing until you see a portrait of a black tower. Beneath it is a trap door. It will take you all the way down to the passages beneath the castle. It runs straight to the dock."

"I thought you were taking us," I hissed.

Mercy glanced over her shoulder. "Mother will check on me. I have to go back to my room."

Eve frowned, moving closer. "Thank you for your help."

Mercy nodded. "Good luck!" She danced away, heading back down the corridor.

I felt horribly exposed as we took the staircase down a level, jumping at every noise. We crept into the corridor below, moving into the east wing of the castle. In an instant, I recognised it.

"Belmont's room is near here," I breathed, my heart racing. I'd been trying to work out how we were going to commandeer a boat with just the two of us. And the answer suddenly hit me like a lightning bolt. "He always takes his boat's crank when he docks, so no one can start the engine. But if we can get it..."

It was the only motorised vessel I could guarantee was in that dock. Which made it the only one we had a chance of stealing.

Eve's eyes widened. "Is that a good idea? What if he catches us?"

"But what if we get to the dock and there's no way to get off this island? Most of the other boats I saw there were sail boats. We can't get one of them moving with just the two of us." I needed Belmont's engine crank in my hand to reassure myself we could escape.

She nodded quickly, gesturing for me to the lead the way. "We better hurry then."

I took her hand and we quickened our pace as we headed down the corridor, moving toward Belmont's room. I pressed my ear to the door, gently turning the handle. Unlocked.

It swung inward and I stepped into the empty room, sighing a breath of relief.

"Quick, come on." I tugged Eve inside and she gently shut the door.

We started rifling through the room as we hunted for the engine crank. When I went through Belmont's fine things in the wardrobe, I came across his prized emerald broach. My stomach lifted with joy and a grin gripped my features. I took the fine coat from the hanger, pulling it on and stuffing the broach into the pocket. "I have an idea," I announced as Eve stood from Belmont's bed stand. She lifted a hand, waving a piece of bent iron at me. "Is this it?"

A grin pulled at my mouth and I rushed toward her, kissing her quickly. "Yes." I took the crank, pocketing it.

"What's your idea?" She smiled.

I rifled through Belmont's unpacked bags, plucking out a maid's uniform, complete with white bonnet. "Put this on."

I snatched a travelling hat from Belmont's bedpost, putting it on. Eve moved closer, tugging up the collar of my coat. "It might work..."

"Hurry." I urged her toward the maid's clothes. She gestured for me to help her untie the lace at the back of her dress and I quickly did so. She stripped down to her undergarments and I turned away, my heart rate racing.

Now is not the time.

When she'd put on the simple uniform, she stuffed the dress into the bottom of the wardrobe, turning to me. She pulled on the bonnet, tucking her golden hair up underneath it. I moved to her, brushing my fingers across her neck and catching a lock she'd missed, pushing it gently up under the hood. "There. Perfect." I kissed her and she gripped my lapels, dragging me closer. My breathing hitched and I pulled away, grinning.

The door handle turned.

Eve's eyes widened in alarm. She grabbed my hand and we ran for the en-suite, darting inside. I had just pressed the door closed when someone entered. A female giggle filled the air, followed by a male voice I knew all too well. John. My least favourite of Belmont's servants.

"He won't be back for ages. They're all drinking downstairs," John said, followed by some heavy groaning.

"This is a bad idea," the girl giggled. I recognised her voice as the maid, Julie's. John was known for his escapades. And I really didn't fancy listening to any of them. But it appeared we didn't have a choice as the girl moaned loudly and suddenly the bed creaked. Again and again.

I gazed at Eve who was fighting a grin.

John made a noise that made me want to cover Eve's ears. Though she'd certainly heard worse than this in the brothel.

"Fuck," John gasped. And I hoped it was done.

Eve had pressed closer to me, her ear to the door. "I think they're leaving," she whispered.

The door clicked out in the room and I almost exited the bathroom when another voice sounded. "Thought you might be up here."

"Jesus! Get the hell out Gareth!" John barked.

"Hey Julie," Gareth said casually. "If you ever want to know what real satisfaction feels like, you know I'm willing right?"

"Piss off, Gareth," Julie sighed.

"Did you hear about Jonah?" Gareth asked as if he hadn't heard her.

My heart beat out of rhythm.

"Yeah. Told you he'd get eaten out there." John laughed.

Adrenaline fuelled my muscles.

"Do you think they drank all of his blood?" Julie asked.

The door wrenched open and I came eye to eye with Gareth's square face. I took advantage of his shock, flying into action as I threw a punch into his left eye. He cried out, stumbling back and falling onto his arse. I stepped into the room, chest puffed out, the blood rising in my veins. John was still naked, trying to tug on his underpants on the edge of the bed. I ran at him, grabbing his hair and throwing a knee into his face.

I expected Julie to scream, but as I turned to her to try and deal with the problem, I found Eve holding her stake to her throat, a hand clamped around her mouth.

Christ.

"Okay," I said calmly, grabbing John by the back of the neck and throwing him in the direction of Gareth. I pointed the gun at them, wheeling it back and forth. My arm trembled from my tensed muscles. "No one make a sound."

Gareth nodded, his eyes flaring with fear. "You're mad."

"Yes," I said. "Mad enough to pull the trigger if you don't do as I say." I gestured to Eve. "Tie their hands and gag them."

She nodded, pushing Julie toward the others and yanking open the wardrobe doors. Moments later, she'd tied their hands behind their backs with scarves and stuffed their mouths with Belmont's socks.

"Get in the bathroom," I ordered and they filed inside immediately, cowering from me. I had to admit, it felt pretty good getting one up on these idiots. They'd tormented me for months.

I gripped the door handle, gazing in at them, their eyes roaming over me as if I was an entirely different person to who they knew. Which was true, seeing as I'd let them believe I was weak. I put up two fingers and beamed at them before shutting the door, twisting the key in the lock.

"We'd better move." I turned to Eve and she flung her arms around me, pressing her lips to mine.

When she pulled away, my heart was racing. "What was that for?"

"Just in case we die," she said calmly, heading across the room to the door.

Now we just had to make it through the castle and down to the dock without being seen. Easy...

"Ready?" she asked.

I approached Eve at the door, grabbing her waist and pulling her into a fervent kiss, tasting her sweet lips properly this time. When we parted, we were both breathless.

A tingle ran across my mouth. "Ready."

EVANGELINE

My mouth was on fire from Jonah's kiss. That was a kiss worth living for. And it renewed strength in me as we stepped out into the corridor. The lamps flickered on the walls, sending a rush of adrenaline through my veins.

We hurried along, following the directions Mercy had given us, praying at every turn we weren't going to bump into someone.

A couple of maids passed us and I dropped my head obediently. Jonah nodded to them and they headed on, seemingly unaware of who we really were.

On the next turn, Jonah paused and I nearly crashed into him, bracing myself on his arm. I found myself before a tall painting with a gilded golden frame. A dark tower was pictured in it, as black as death. Jonah dropped down to a crouch, running his fingers across the floorboards. I glanced up and down the corridor, gripping the stake under the folds of my apron.

"Hurry," I breathed.

A click sounded and I glanced down, finding Jonah lifting up a small hatch.

"You first," he insisted, tugging me down beside him. I dropped onto the first rung of the ladder, climbing down, the hatch illuminating him in a square of light. His hard features and fearful eyes.

A voice made him turn and I spotted him snatch the gun from his waistband. Arms grabbed him and he lost his grip on the gun, the weapon flying past me and hitting the ground below. The hatch slammed shut and I was buried in darkness. I stifled a cry, hurrying down the steps, hearing a scuffle up above. When my feet hit the floor I dropped down, searching desperately for the gun. My fingertips scraped across stone.

Where is it? Where is it?

My breaths came in panicked pants. My palm grazed metal and I grasped it, scrambling back onto the ladder and hurrying up it. I threw the hatch wide and spotted Jonah pinned to the ground by Varick. The Vampire drooled as he gazed over him.

Jonah's eyes locked with mine. "Run, Eve!"

"Never," I snarled, aiming the gun at Varick as I rose from the hatch. "Let him go," I demanded, trying to keep myself composed. My heart was thundering like hooves in my chest.

Varick gazed up at me. "I can disarm you both. You cannot win against me."

His eyes roamed over my neck and there was that hunger I'd seen on the first day I'd met him. I knew what he wanted. Lifting my free hand, I tore at my sleeve with my teeth, holding out my exposed wrist. "Here, drink. Then let us go. That's all you want, isn't it? I've seen how they talk to you. You're their slave. You don't have to help them find us."

Varick's Adam's apple bobbed and his grip eased on Jonah's throat. He seemed conflicted, looking between me and him.

"Drink," I pleaded.

"Eve," Jonah begged. "Don't."

"Here," I encouraged, waving my arm as I stepped closer. "Take it."

Varick lunged at me. Still on his knees, he grabbed my arm, his fangs sinking into my skin. I clapped a hand to my mouth to stop my scream as pain ripped up my arm.

Jonah gained his feet, reaching for the gun. I withdrew. "No," I gasped. "He'll let us go. He will."

Varick grew desperate, his hand suddenly gripping mine, dragging me forward so I stumbled.

"Are you insane?" Jonah hissed, snatching the gun from me. He aimed it at Varick and the Vampire moved in a flash, wrenching his teeth free from my skin as he stood. In a rapid movement, he grabbed the gun from Jonah, turning it towards us. I raised my hands, backing up, blood dripping from the two thin slits on my arm.

Varick wiped his mouth with the back of his hand, his eyes filling with a strange sort of clarity. He swung the gun from me to Jonah and my heart doubled its pace.

"Please," I begged.

Jonah took my hand.

"Go," Varick snarled, pointing at the hatch with the barrel of the gun.

"But...what will you say?" I whispered. "Will you tell them?"

Varick swallowed slowly, his eyes narrowing on me. "Yes." He cleared his throat. "It will probably take me ten minutes to alert Abraham." He gestured to the hatch again. "Probably."

Jonah wrenched the hatch open, not wasting another second, but I grabbed Varick's arm before he strode away. "Thank you for helping us."

He considered my words a moment. "Is that what I'm doing? I thought I was alerting Abraham." He shook me off harshly, striding away, his robe flapping behind him.

Jonah grabbed my ankle, encouraging me after him into the hatch. I dropped down into the hole and snapped the hatch shut behind me.

"He helped us," I said in disbelief. I couldn't believe my plan had worked.

"No. You traded blood for ten minutes," Jonah growled. "And I don't bank on him keeping that promise." It was pitch black in the dark space but Jonah had had the forethought to pinch a candle from Belmont's room. He lit it up with the strike of a match then nudged me forward. We started jogging, but had to move slow enough to keep the candle alight. Even if Varick kept to his word, ten minutes was nothing. We still had to reach the dock and get Belmont's boat running before anyone caught up with us. And we could still be followed even then.

I kept pace with Jonah as he ran with his hand cupping the flame of the candle. When we reached a narrow staircase we travelled down it for what felt like an age. Round and round in a spiral until I was so dizzy, I was sure I'd trip at any moment. When we reached the bottom floor, my shoes hit soft soil. A damp scent filled the icy air. Wind howled through a tunnel to our left.

"This way," Jonah said in a strained tone, heading into the dark tunnel. I knew this was going to be hard for him. Jonah hated the dark.

The candlelight barely penetrated the darkness and we had to slow our pace as we made our way over uneven ground. It soon sloped down so steeply that I had to brace myself on the stone wall as I went. My fingertips ran over something slimy and I winced, keeping my eyes on the way ahead.

A new sound joined the screaming wind. Water. Waves lapping on a stony shore. We were close. So close.

"We're nearly there," I whispered, squeezing Jonah's wrist to reassure him.

Though he'd never say it, I knew he was troubled. His eyes were creased at the corners and his mouth was pressed into a hard line.

"I can do anything with you at my side, it seems." He cast me a small smile.

Under the candlelight, our breaths came out in a fog. I was growing more numb by the second, my toes feeling frozen to the insides of my boots.

A grunt came from up ahead, followed by an eerie moan. I halted and Jonah followed suit, holding up the candle to try and light the thick darkness before us.

Another groan sounded, low and guttural.

My mouth went dry. On instinct, I stepped back. But a voice in my head reminded me we only had ten minutes. Varick had taken the best weapon we had. All that remained was the stake in my hand. I lifted it, but didn't fancy fighting whatever was making that noise.

I pictured the ghost Mercy had described and a shudder ran through me.

"Jonah, what is it?" I asked, barely a whisper.

"I don't know." He shifted closer to me.

A sharp wind rolled over us and the candle flickered out.

The smoke from the burnt wick ran over me, followed by something rancid, like rotting flesh. I wrinkled my nose, feeling Jonah press me back.

"Jonah, the light," I begged and heard him fumbling for the matches.

One strike. Two.

On the third, the space was illuminated in a bright flash. A bony face was lit up before me, as white as chalk, as thin as a waif.

The match went out.

I screamed, slashing outwards with my stake.

Vampire.

Nails raked across my arm and I hit the wall as a weight collided with me. It was hardly more than a skeleton, its sharp angles digging into me, its teeth gnashing near my ear. I reached up to its head, trying to find hair to tug back on, to pull it off of me. Something wet and fleshy met my hand.

I cried out in horror, pushing it away as hard as I could.

"Eve!" Jonah roared, then the weight released me.

I flailed blindly before me.

A scuffle sounded ahead.

I stumbled on something soft, flying forward and hitting the ground. I slid down the steep slope, the mud beneath me wet and loose.

I dug the stake into the earth, using it to help me gain purchase and crawl back up the hill.

"Jonah! Where are you?" I yelled, panic gripping my heart.

"Here," he said in a strained voice.

I crawled toward his voice, reaching blindly forward. A wet, sucking sound filled the air and Jonah groaned in pain.

My knees pressed against something warm and I reached down, finding Jonah's arm. My hands trembled as I followed the line of his arm until my fingers brushed something cool and fleshy. The Vampire was feeding from him, grunting as it did so. I lifted the stake above it, praying I wouldn't miss, and jammed it into the soft, wet flesh.

The Vampire shrieked, then jerked violently, before falling limp. I kicked it off of Jonah, reaching out to him. Hot blood rushed over my hands.

"No, no," I whispered, trying to find his lips. He wasn't moving. He was so quiet, my heart couldn't take it. "Jonah, drink this." I guided the tip of the stake to his mouth, giving him the healing gift of the Vampire's blood.

I knotted my hand into his shirt, resting my head against his chest, listening for a heartbeat. One faint one, then two.

Jonah sat upright with a gasp. "Eve?"

I threw my arms around him, holding him tight. "Oh thank God."

He fumbled for the matches and struck one sharply. The narrow tunnel was illuminated brightly and what I saw made my stomach churn. Red and black blood was splashed everywhere. Jonah and the Vampire's. But what was worse was the sight of the dead Vampire on the ground. The back of its skull was missing. So what I'd touched had been its...

I heaved, turning away and Jonah rubbed my back.

"Come on," he whispered. "We have to hurry."

I nodded, my eyes burning as another heave took hold of my gut. But thankfully, no vomit came up. I couldn't remember the last time I'd eaten.

Jonah helped me up, steadying me. Wordlessly, he lit the candle and we carried on, having to move steadily down the steep hill. The sea breached up ahead, the crash of waves tantalisingly close.

The hill evened out and we were finally able to run, darting toward a small opening ahead of us, lit by moonlight.

Jonah stepped through first, checking it was safe before gesturing for me to follow. Sharp black stones lined the small beach we emerged on. Before us, the tide was coming in, splashing up the rocks.

"There." Jonah pointed. Beyond a steep line of rock that jutted out into the sea, was the dock. Masts were just visible above it. So we had to climb.

We moved across the beach, slipping and sliding on the wet rocks. The moon was one gift at least. It shone down on us with a watchful eye, and I wondered if it was rooting for us or the Helsings.

Jonah moved to my side, shielding me from the sea spray as we started to climb the protrusion of rock. It was ten foot at the highest point and I fixed my eye on it, moving toward it one step at a time.

The waves were getting stronger. Each crash sent a splash across us that froze me to the bone. My teeth began to chatter.

Just keep moving. Almost there.

As we reached the top of the rocks, Jonah and I peeked over the edge. My heart sunk like a stone. The dock was surrounded. Guards were lined up, facing the castle, evidently expecting us to arrive down the stone steps at any moment. Lord Belmont was amongst them, looking furious.

We dropped back down behind the rock and Jonah gazed at me, his face pale, his brows drawn together.

"What now?" I breathed.

He sighed softly, cupping my cheek. "I'll distract them." He held out the crank to Belmont's boat. "It's called The English Rose."

"No," I hissed, pushing the metal bar back at him. "We go together or not at all."

"We are both going." He smiled, but I wasn't convinced. "You're just going to get the boat started. It will take a few minutes and it can be quite noisy, so I have to buy you the time."

"No. I don't know how– I can't-" I stuttered, growing desperate. The idea of parting with him was too much. We'd come so far. We had to survive this together.

"You can," he insisted, lifting my hand to his mouth and pressing his cool lips to my knuckles. "You're incredible, Evangeline. I never realised how much." He slid the crank into my hand, closing my fist around it.

"The engine is on the lower deck at the back of the boat." He took hold of the crank in my hand, pointing to one end of it. "On the side of the engine, there's a slot for this bit. It's in the middle of a big metal disc. Put the crank in there and start winding it like this." He wound my hand through the air in a circle and I nodded.

A tear slid from my eye and he wiped it away, leaning in close. "From the sea to the stars." He leapt over the top of the rocks.

JONAH

I was probably the only man present who was a street fighter. But I didn't think that was going to do much good against the guns the guards were carrying. So I had to take a more stealthy approach.

I crept along the nearest pier, the lap of waves and creak of the nearby boats covering my footsteps. There were six men before me, Belmont included. I supposed I had to be grateful Varick wasn't present. I was sure he wouldn't offer us a second chance. And he'd crush my neck before I got close to any of these men. Then drain me of blood for good measure.

To my left, two of the guards were standing side by side on the adjacent pier. The others were lined up on the beach.

I crept toward the nearest sail boat, climbing onto it and moving into the cabin. If the owner was anything like Belmont, he'd keep a gun near the wheel. I did a quick search before giving up and moving to the next boat. I was luckier this time, finding a small pistol wedged under the captain's seat. It had two bullets in it. That would have to do.

Sneaking back off of the boat, I lifted the gun, aiming it at one of the men on the pier opposite. I took a steadying breath, gazing down the sight. I had to make this shot. The second it was fired, everyone would be alerted to my presence.

I pulled the trigger.

The shot ripped through the air.

The first man cried out, falling forward and by sheer luck, dragged his comrade over the pier. They splashed into the water and the men on the beach turned.

A cry went up. "There he is! Get him!"

I dove onto the nearest sailing boat, taking cover in the prow. Shots were fired. One ripped a hole in the wood an inch from my head.

I couldn't stay there long. I needed to draw the men away from Eve. I shut my eyes a moment, my breathing frantic. I had to run. For her.

I jumped upright, firing a shot, buying myself a few seconds of cover.

That was my last bullet.

The men ducked and I charged down the pier, missing another bullet by a hair's breadth.

My boots met with the beach and I threw a hard punch at one of the guards. He stumbled back into Belmont who shouldered him aside.

I was already atop the other one, gripping his hand where it was clamped around a gun. I tried to prise it free and he pulled the trigger. The bullet whistled past my ear and I swore loudly, adrenaline surging. I kicked his shin, taking him to the ground and bashing his gun hand against a rock. For good measure, I slammed his head back against the pebbles.

When I had his gun, I flung around, spying the other guard aiming at me. My heart pounded in my ears.

Think, Jonah. Think.

I swung my new gun to point at Belmont. "If you shoot me, I'll shoot him." I rose slowly to my feet, leaving the battered guard on the ground, unconscious.

Belmont raised his hands, his eyes flaring with fear.

The guard spat a laugh. "He is nobody."

"Lord Belmont is one of the Helsings' most loyal spectators. How will they explain his death to the other men? It will damage their reputation. And that will be on you." I pinned the guard with my hardest stare, hoping the bluff worked. Who knew? Perhaps Belmont really was that valuable.

The guard licked his lips, looking jittery.

Belmont's brows lowered. "You won't get out of here alive. Abraham has quite the plan for you and that girl."

I remained quiet, my heart throbbing loudly in my ears.

Belmont took a small step closer, his cane clicking on the stones beneath it. "And the girl will be offered to the men as the whore she is. Before she is thrown back onto that island for the Vampires."

My throat went dry. I gazed from Belmont to the guard.

"We'll wait for Varick," the guard decided, glancing toward the steps.

"No deal." I slapped his gun hand to the side and swung my pistol toward him, pulling the trigger. A bullet hole ripped through his cheek and he slumped to the ground. I could barely register what I'd done as Belmont came at me, his hands locked around my gun. I tried to battle him off, but he had a fierce grip.

He bit my hand and I gasped, barely holding onto the gun. Kicking out his cane, I grabbed the hilt and twisted. I let Belmont take the gun to buy myself a few precious seconds. The knife came free from the cane and I lunged forward, throwing my weight at him. He grunted, his bad leg giving out. The gun went off, but the bullet went wide. Belmont stumbled back, about to fall. I grabbed his collar to catch him and slammed the knife up between his ribs.

His eyes widened as I released him and he fell back onto the beach, still clinging to my arm.

My gut rolled. My heart pumped madly out of tune.

I reached down, spying a glinting key at his throat. I snatched it, breaking the chain. "No," he groaned, reaching skyward, blood on his fingertips.

But I'd already stepped away, turning, the sound of a boat motor like a Godsend to my ears. I fled toward The English Rose, diving onto it.

Eve was in the cabin and she flung her arms around me as I entered.

"I did it," she gasped.

I squeezed her arm. "I never doubted you."

I pushed the lever, driving us out into the water. I glanced back, spying a shadowy figure on the shore. From the size of him, it could only have been Varick. My gut twisted uncomfortably. I held Eve tighter against me, kissing her temple.

"Will he come after us?" Eve breathed.

I watched, waiting for Varick to act, to swim toward us. Something. But he didn't move beyond kicking Belmont's side, evidently checking if he was dead. He didn't get up.

Varick glanced in our direction once more, then headed back toward the stone steps.

"He's leaving," I said in disbelief.

"He's letting us go," Eve confirmed, gazing up at me with hopeful eyes.

I shook my head in dismay. Of all the monsters on this island, we'd been shown mercy by the most fearsome of them all.

My gaze fell to the back of the cabin where Belmont's giant safe sat.

I laughed, releasing Eve as I walked toward it. Crouching down, I slid the key I'd taken from him into the lock. A satisfying click followed and I wrenched open the door.

Eve gasped. My own breath squeezed from my lungs.

It was more than I ever could have predicated. A huge wad of bank notes sat between boxes and boxes of jewels.

I plucked a lace of pearls from the safe, standing and draping it over Eve's neck. We were covered in blood, muck and were wet to the bone. But she still looked regal. "Well, my Lady. Where to?"

"I believe Italy was on the cards?" She beamed, winding her fingers into mine. She was cold.

There was a gas burner in one corner and I hurried over to it, striking it up on the third attempt. The cabin slowly filled with hot air and we had to shed our clothes to dry them out.

No one was following us. And even if they were, the motorised vessel could probably outpace them.

Impossibly, we were safe. And now, we were very, very rich as well.

EPILOGUE:

EVANGELINE

Jonah pressed me down between the sheets. We had been married for three days, and we'd rarely left our bed since.

His mouth ran from my neck to my ear and I writhed beneath him, holding him close. I never wanted to part. I had no idea sex could be so good. Jonah's body was a sea of hard muscle I longed to explore. And he seemed equally passionate about voyaging over my skin.

We'd sailed to Italy eventually, but not before returning to London for my mother. Some of the other girls had joined us, too. We probably had enough money to run our own country. Instead, we'd bought a somewhat modest house on the Amalfi coast, overlooking the shining sea. We'd gifted homes to the others, too. It was more than enough. We certainly didn't want to draw attention to ourselves. But then again, most of the local people barely batted an eye when Jonah bought fine wine and sweet pastries.

It was hard to process what we'd been through. Mother hadn't believed me when I'd told her. It didn't matter. I knew it had bonded Jonah and I in a way that few people would ever understand.

Eventually, we left the bedroom, walking hand in hand down to the closest beach through the steep streets. The houses around us had roofs of deep magenta and burgundy. When the sun set, it made the whole town look like burnished gold.

Jonah wore fine trousers and a shirt whilst I wore the latest fashion, clad in a light cream dress that was designed to keep me cool under the Mediterranean sun. We were still struggling with the language, but we'd get there in time.

The sun melted along the horizon, sinking into the water, seeming to peel apart like an orange. I'd never get bored of the sight. It filled my heart to the brim, especially with Jonah by my side.

We made this walk every evening.

"I've been thinking about our time on that godforsaken island," Jonah said, his fingers squeezing mine.

I frowned. "Oh yes?"

"That Vampire blood could cure so many things. After all my years working with the old alchemist, I stopped believing any potion could have such powers." Jonah's brows drew together. "But now I know it exists...it's hard to forget it."

"And what would you do Jonah? Sell it at the market?" I teased.

He smiled, shaking his head suddenly. "You're right, it's a mad idea."

We walked on, side by side, soon arriving on the small rocky beach. "You look quite beautiful tonight, Mrs Madigan." Jonah pushed a lock of hair behind my ear and I dipped my head shyly. It was still strange having adopted his surname. But I loved the sound of it.

The light extinguished on the horizon and a sigh parted from my lips. So much love in my heart didn't seem possible.

"From the sea to the stars, Jonah." I stepped closer and he repeated our little saying back to me before the gap closed between our lips.

"From the sea to the stars, Evangeline."

Read the first season of The Vampire Games NOW (all books available on Amazon)!

Start with book 1 for just 0.99!

Find all my books here:

https://carolinepeckham.com/upcoming-fantasy-series/

AUTHOR BIO

Caroline Peckham is the author of The Rise of Isaac Series and the V Games Trilogy.

Caroline lives in the south east of London with her best friend and a little rescue cat. When she's not writing, she's binging Netflix shows, going to the gym or at the pub pretending to be cool.

She adores her fans and loves to hear from them personally. She'd love for you to reach out to her on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter!

SOCIAL LINKS

If you'd like to stay updated about my upcoming releases then I'd love for you to join my VIP mailing list.

Click here to subscribe

Click here to find the latest information and more at www.carolinepeckham.com

Come and say hi on Facebook

Or stalk me on Twitter @carolinepeckham

Or breeze by my page on Goodreads

