 
# A Gentleman's Pride:

# The Tainted Series

# By T.L. Tate

Copyright 2017 by T.L. Tate

Distributed by Smashwords

Cover Photo Copyright of NeonShot/Shutterstock

This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, businesses, places, events and incidents are either the products of the author's imagination or used in a fictitious manner. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, or actual events is purely coincidental.

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in any form or by any means, including photocopying, recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods, without the prior written permission of the publisher, except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical reviews and certain other noncommercial uses permitted by copyright law.

***ATTENTION!***

Hearts that Bleed has been released! Check inside for a link to a free sample of the novel.

Thanks for your support!

~T.L. Tate~

~Pride without Wisdom makes a Fool~

### Contents:

### Main Story

### Hearts that Bleed! –Sample–

### About T.L.

### More Stories

A Gentleman's Pride:

# The Tainted Series

Room 721. I knew what awaited me in there—my wife and her lover. After years together, she started having an affair with him, which had become sexual 4 months ago. I found all this out close to a week ago. It was the day before my 30th birthday. Rachel, my wife, had told me that she was called to a last minute conference that was to be held in San Francisco and that she wouldn't return until the following Monday. This was the straw that broke the proverbial camel's back. Up until then, I had continued to put up with our deteriorating relationship. In the beginning our relationship was filled with mutual love and respect but it seems that the moment after we said our vows, all of that changed. In the following years it was like being married to a stranger. I tried everything that I could to express my love and appreciation towards her but nothing that I did seemed to matter. I doted on her. I honored her. I cherished her. Everything that I did, I did for her but with each attempt, I felt like the two of us got further and further apart.

I felt down and was hurt after Rachel left to go on her trip. It wasn't until her little sister, Toni, came over that I found out the truth. I've known Toni for almost as long as I've known Rachel. She's a beautiful, curvy and capable woman who is now one of my subordinates at work. Last Thursday, before I made it home, Rachel confessed to Toni the truth behind her illicit affair. Toni gave Rachel 24 hours to tell me the truth, but instead she left on a weekend excursion to Las Vegas with her lover.

After finding out the truth, I fell into a downward spiral. Toni was the one that helped rescue me from my heartache. Her words were supportive. Her heart was a radiating column of strength. But it was her actions that really got through to me. One minute after midnight, Toni appeared at my bedside and woke me. She offered her body to me as a way to help me heal. However, it had another effect. She helped transform me from a man that allowed his wife to walk all over him, to a man that stood his ground. Toni offered me her innocence and in that I found a wealth of strength that I never knew existed. However, despite our carnal experience, Toni still pushed me to forgive her sister and not divorce her. Given what I had taken away from Toni, I felt that I didn't have the right to refuse.

In a moment of foolishness, Rachel contacted me via text to wish me a happy birthday and to send me a picture of some lingerie that she claimed was bought with me in mind. Of course, she didn't know that I had been made aware of her lies and that at that very moment she was shacked up with the guy she was cheating on me with. Therefore, all it took to bring her lies crashing down around her was me simply telling her to enjoy Las Vegas, to which she responded that she would. She failed to stick to her original lie that she was going to be in San Francisco.

Upon realizing that I knew the truth she practically tripped over herself to make it back home, leaving her lover alone in Vegas. I wanted to kick her to the curb. I wanted to leave her and never look back but I couldn't...rather, I didn't. She carried on an emotional affair for 2-years and a sexual affair for 4-months. That was horrible, despicable and majorly fucked up. However, I _did_ sleep with her sister so I wasn't exactly Mr. Innocent in all of this. Although I didn't think she deserved it, I had no choice but to give her a second chance.

But that second chance didn't come cheap. Marriage counseling, avoidance and being relegated to the guest bedroom were the prices she had to pay to keep me in the marriage. But this was nothing more than a stopgap. I wasn't very confident that there was anything that we could do to repair the destroyed trust and to rebuild my feelings for her. But all of that changed the day that I came home and saw her crying.

Apparently, while I was at work, her bedmate, Alex, came by the house and threatened her. I wasn't having it. Betrayed or not, no one was going to come to my house and bully my wife. No one! While I contemplated murder, she claimed that she had it all under control. I kept refining my plans but since she wouldn't give up his address, I had to leave it to her to deal with. Perhaps it was my lingering feelings. Perhaps it was seeing her in pain. Perhaps I was just tired of being stuck in a marriage that didn't seem to be heading in the right direction. Whatever it was, upon seeing her, those recent wounds opened back up and my bleeding heart poured out. Despite the pain and betrayal, I loved her. Later that night we fell in bed with each other.

The next day we had our marriage counseling with the alluring Dr. Amara Jeffries. Rachel openly admitted to having an affair and although I slept with Toni in a moment of pain after finding out about Rachel's affair, I didn't come clean and admit stepping out on her too. Instead, I admitted that over the years I have failed my wife in paying attention to her and her evolving needs and desires. I kept seeing her as the girl I fell in love with and not as the woman she had become. We allowed ourselves to grow in different directions. Dr. Jeffries or _Amara_ (as she preferred to be called) suggested that this was the primary reason for the affair and suggested that we work on our relationship and remove sex as an option.

In the days that followed things really improved. We interacted with each other and had deep and meaningful conversations. I was finally beginning to feel like I was growing to understand Rachel and how we could co-exist.

So then why am I marching down a hotel hallway on my way to rain down Hell? Simple. After finishing up a meeting in the restaurant downstairs and waving goodbye to my prospects, I saw him. Although I've never met him before, I knew it was him as soon as he walked passed me. I followed him. Then lo and behold, Rachel, my darling wife, appeared. She had made it seem like their affair was over and that she really wanted a second chance to build a relationship with me. I was a fool. I fell for her lies—hook, line and sinker.

Now it was payback time. He rented a room and she followed him. After chatting up the desk receptionist, I was given a copy of the key to the very same room. The only thing that remained was to decide which of them was going out of the window first.

Like a snake, I shed the layers of my clothes as I approached the room. My jacket, tie, vest and watch would all just get in the way. I cast them aside as I got closer to the room. Rolling up my sleeves I looked at the door. Rolling my head in a small circle I let the rage fill me until I was nothing more than a revenging demon, hell-bent on destruction and wrath.

Yippee ki-yay, motherfuckers!

Standing before the door with my rage burning a wrath-filled hole through my soul, I heard a loud sound from the other side of the door. I knew it was the two of them going at it. Boy she must've really wanted it if they were knocking down furniture. I placed the card against the card reader. The light turned green and it was go time. I threw open the door and stormed in, not sure who I was going to hurt first but knowing that whoever was closest would be the one that got their asses tossed out of the window first.

Chest heaving, eyes full of rage and adrenaline coursing through my body—I was fury incarnate.

Once I was inside that billowing rage was quickly displaced by a more pronounced emotion. Shock.

"Rachel!"

I expected to see Rachel pinned to the wall or her pinning him to the ground...not this!

Her hair was wild. Her blouse hanged open. Her eyes were alit with passion. Her feet were spread as her chest heaved. He watched her with multiple emotions dancing in his eyes. Their focus was so heavily anchored on each other that neither of them noticed me at all.

Rachel's lips curled back in an expression that wasn't quite a smile. Her arm shakily stretched out as a heavy 9mm pistol was held firmly in her grip. Her hand shook as she leveled the gun at his chest.

"You fucking son-of-a-bitch! Don't you ever touch me again. I'll kill you. Do you understand? I'll fucking kill you dead you motherfucker!"

I have seen her angry in the past. I have seen her hurt. I have seen her scared. Her expression at this moment blew all of that away. She looked like a Fury. She looked like a Fury had materialized from the pages of a Greek tragedy and was ready to exact an appropriate amount of revenge.

That was when I saw it. The table was askew and a tall glass vase containing an assortment of colorful flowers lay broken on the floor. But that wasn't the worst of it. As I saw Rachel's finger twitch on the trigger, the man (Alex) stepped back and sputtered, "I-I-I'm so sorry, my love. I'm sorry. You know how I can get when I'm frustrated. I'm sorry. Please forgive me."

If hearing another man call my wife 'my love' wasn't enough to jettison me into an angry stratosphere, I saw a deepening red hand print form on the side of Rachel's face.

"You goddamn piece of shit!" This time they both heard me. This time they knew that they weren't alone. My voice rang out with enough force to stop a rampaging herd of elephants.

He turned his head just as I started to make my way towards him. "Oh shit!" He held his hands up and stepped back.

Oh shit was right. No one is going to lay their hands on my wife and walk away.

Rachel's eyes grew large. "J-Jake?" And then she screamed. "Ah!"

I tackled that parasite to the ground and then it was game on. While he was on his back I sat back on my knees and gave him two hard punches to the face. Unfortunately, he put up his guard so my punches were deflected off of his forearms. He wrapped his ankles around my hips and grabbed one of my arms and I felt myself tilt to the side. He was on top of me faster than I would've thought possible. He tucked his chin to his chest as I threw up punches from the ground. At the same time he punched at my stomach and ribs. I clenched to reduce the damage.

Now, I'm not much of a fighter...that is, I'd rather avoid them altogether. Nevertheless, I would be damned if I lost this one.

When he reached back to give me another shot, I quickly brought my legs up and hooked my ankles in front of his face and then slammed my legs down with as much force as I could muster. It was enough. His head went flying back and landed with a loud smack on the ground.

I didn't waste any time. Now that he was off of me, I quickly jumped up to my feet. Rachel was panicking. She kept the gun aimed at him but was backpedaling towards the door.

"Oh my God. Oh my God! Jake! Jake, no! Oh my God!"

He crawled up to his feet a moment after I stood. That was good. I wanted a chance to really do some damage.

He touched his nose. I must've gotten a few good shots in while we were on the ground because it was bleeding nice and good. "You fucker! Look at what you did to me!" He advanced.

"Fuck you! You hit my wife. I'm going to crush you!" I met him in the middle and our fists were flying.

He was faster than I thought. He stepped forward and delivered a solid jab to my chin and then followed up with a hook aimed at my jaw. His fists were heavy but I was so angry that I could've been fighting a heavyweight champion and I wouldn't have backed down.

After recovering from his blows I threw a few of my own. My first shot connected with his right eye socket and he reeled backwards. I advanced and delivered two strong punches to his abdomen and one to his sternum. He hacked.

With his right eye swelling quickly, he threw a series of wild punched at my body and head. They were easy to see through and I dodged them without ever being touched. After a particularly wild and misaimed hook, I stepped forward and brought my fist down hard to his exposed ribcage.

"Argh!" He clenched his side and leaned forward.

Clutching the back of his head in a Muay Thai grip, I brought my knee up to his face. He fell backwards into the askew table, knocking down chairs as he fell to the ground.

I mounted him, placing my knees on his arms.

I looked down at him as he watched me with real fear in his eyes. The feeling was exquisite. Placing my hand on his throat, I brought my right fist back so he could easily see the blow coming.

"You fucked my wife." _Smash!_

I traded fists, this time holding his throat with my right hand and pulling back my left fist.

"You threatened my wife." _Smash!_

I traded again.

"You hit my wife." _Smash! Smash!_

His eyes were rolling in the back of his head but I wasn't done. I spit on him and then grabbed his face with both of my hands and growled, "If you _ever_ look at her again—I. Will. Kill. You."

I gathered all my hurt and all my rage and I compacted it all into my fists. Then I went to work. _Smash! Smash! Smash! Smash!_

He was out cold but I didn't stop. Inside, I felt like there was this empty void. I no longer felt anger or rage. I was no longer sad and frustrated. I didn't love, like or care about anything. I felt nothing at all but the sweet release of my emotional baggage. I punched him until he was a little more than pulp with a pulse.

"Jake! Jake! JACOB!"

I shuddered at the sound. I blinked. Looking up, it felt like I was seeing for the very first time. Before me was a beautiful woman with sharp cheekbones, long brown hair, gorgeous brown eyes and tears falling over a bruise on her left cheek.

Who was she and why was she crying?

I felt her nails dig into my shoulders and I took in a painful breath.

"R-Rachel?" She nodded and sobbed. It was my wife. But what was she doing here? Where was I? I looked around and I felt lost. I was in a hotel room and Rachel was crying.

"Oh, Jake."

I reached out to stroke her face and tell her not to cry but when I did my hands came up bloody and bruised. It hurt. It hurt, badly.

"Oh, Jake." She pressed her face against my chest and sobbed. I continued to look around the strange room and felt like I was slowly coming out of a daze. On the floor, by the door was a black 9mm. There was glass on the floor and some chairs were knocked over. I heard a deep voice groan. Rachel sat back and I looked down. There was a man (at least I thought it was a man) lying on the ground beneath me looking like he just went head-to-head with a freaking freight train.

"W-what happened?"

"You don't remember?" Her voice was tarnished by pain and sadness.

I shook my head but as I did the memories slowly came flooding back. I remembered. I remembered everything. I looked at her. I could only imagine the haunted look on my face because when she looked at me there was such a look of pain in her eyes that it was overwhelming.

"I remember. I had a meeting and then he arrived. I followed him and I saw you. You were with him."

She nodded as more tears fell down her face. "Oh Jake, I'm sorry. I wish I didn't come. I only did it because he wouldn't leave it alone. I came to tell him that we were over. I brought _that_ ", she pointed to the gun on the floor, "just in case."

"S-so you didn't come here to sleep with him?"

Now she looked both shocked and disgusted. "No! Never again. When I told him that we were through he tried to take me by force—saying that he'll have me anytime that he chooses. When I kicked him in the nuts he slapped me and threw me against the wall. That's when I got the gun out and you appeared right after and tackled him. I should've told you what I was planning. I'm so sorry if I worried you. I just...I just didn't want _this_!" She motioned to the room as I remembered the fight that we just had.

"Ohhh!" He continued to groan.

I looked up into her eyes. "He tried to rape you?" She nodded. My hands went to his throat and I squeezed. His left eye opened slightly as his hands moved pointlessly beneath my legs. I squeezed as he tried desperately to escape.

I looked down at him and growled, "You tried to _rape_ my wife. You're dead!" I continued to squeeze down as his body started to flop. I felt my hands shake as I cut off his oxygen. His neck was thick and it was hard but I was so angry that I was going to do it regardless.

Despite the extremity of the situation, Rachel spoke softly in my ear. "That's enough, Jake. Anymore and he'll die. Enough, my love. Enough." She kissed my cheek and I shuddered but I released him all the same.

This time I stood up and walked backwards until I fell on a small sofa. I watched as he turned to the side and held his throat, gasping for air. Rachel stood up and looked down at him in disgust and then she went and picked up the gun and placed it in her purse. She came over to me and knelt down before me.

"I'm sorry that I caused all of this Jake. I was stupid. I was beyond stupid. All the same, thanks for coming to my rescue. If you hadn't...I-I-I probably would've shot him."

"It's okay, Rachel. I'm...argh!" I took a deep breath and my left side screamed in pain. I held it. He must've gotten in some really good shots while we were on the ground. I was sure that I would be bruised. But it didn't matter. I was bruised and battered but I still had my wife. I still had Rachel.

She looked at me as I squinted in pain. "Oh, Jake." She leaned forward and wrapped her arms around me. I moved slower but I still held her in my arms tightly. By this point Alex had picked himself off the ground and was seated on the floor leaning against the wall. He looked like shit and I loved it.

Rachel left shortly and then returned with a hotel towel wrapped around a bundle of ice cubes. She slipped the towel under my shirt and pressed it against my ribs. It hurt but I knew it would make me feel better. As I stood, my knees shook. Violence was not my go to. So when the adrenaline dissipated, the shock of what I had done fell on me. But I wouldn't show any weakness here. Especially not in front of this D-bag. I clenched my teeth and willed my lower half to still.

I looked at Rachel, "Do you think we should call him an ambulance?"

She looked at him, her eyes hard. "Fuck him."

That's my girl!

I wrapped my arm over her shoulder and walked out of the room with her. Neither of us looked at him while he held his swollen and bleeding face in his hands.

Hanging up the phone, I set my eyes on the road. Sitting in my car, in the parking structure, I called my assistant, Sarah. I told her the outcome of the meeting and she promised to pass that information on to the other executives. I told her I wouldn't be back for the rest of the day. She assumed it was so I could have a private celebration of my success. I didn't correct her.

My knuckles where burning and my hands were shaking. I took extra care in driving home, trading hands often as one would eventually shake too much to properly control the steering wheel. Rachel made it home well before I did. After pulling my car alongside hers, I headed into the house. She met me at the side door with a cool and damp cloth and a wide mixing bowl filled with ice and water.

We sat on the couch as I plunged my hands in the bowl and Rachel dabbed the cloth on my face. We were silent for a long while. When Rachel finally spoke I had been staring out of the window going over everything over and over in my mind.

"How's your side, Jake?"

Her voice startled me. I had all but forgotten she was there. I looked at her and her eyes were wet with tears as she watched me. I didn't know what she was thinking. "I-I'm sorry. What did you say?"

She moved her hand to my stomach and touched it gently. "Your side. How is it?"

"Oh." I shifted slightly and tried to take a deep breath. It was slightly painful at the end but it was bearable. "It hurts but I don't think my ribs are damaged. Probably bruised but not bad."

"Thank God!" Her voice was trembling. When I looked back at her, I noticed that it wasn't just her voice that was trembling. Her entire body was shaking.

I pulled my hands from the ice water and grabbed her shoulders. I was well aware of the solid wet handprints that my palms placed on her shoulders but I didn't care. "Are you okay, baby?"

Finally she looked up at me and I saw the dam burst. Whatever she had been thinking...whatever she had been suffering, it all came pouring out of her in the form of an earsplitting shriek. "I'm so sorry! I'm so sorry!" She fell forward and I caught her with my chest and held her in my arms as she cried nonstop. "It's all my fault that you got hurt. I love you so much but I did such a stupid thing. I'm so sorry, Jake. I didn't want this. I never wanted this! I thought I could handle it but when he hit me, I was so scared. I was so scared, Jake!" She continued to cry as she rested her head in my lap. Placing the bucket on the floor. I stroked her head as she cried in my lap. "I was so scared. Then I saw you and I felt safe. But when he hit you I was terrified that he might hurt you. I should've told you from the beginning. I-I just keep thinking that if you didn't show up...I-I..."

Her voice trailed off as her mind conjured the worst. "I'm sorry you felt you had to act alone. I'm sorry that you were scared and that he hurt you. But you're safe now. You're home. I love you, Rachel. I'll always protect you."

"But who's going to protect you?" Her voice had a sudden vehemence that I couldn't understand.

"W-what do you mean, Rachel?"

She wouldn't look at me as she shook her head. Her voice was still full of angst and rage, "I mean who is going to protect you from me?"

"Baby..."

"I'm a poison, Jake. Everything that I touch I destroy. Look at what I did to this marriage. Look at what I did to _you_! I'm a horrible person!"

I stroked her head as her tears continued to pour. "You made a bad choice and it had a horrible consequence but you're not a horrible person. You're my wife and I love you. I always have and I always will. I'm not perfect and I fuck up all the time. No matter what, we have each other. I'd fight 1000 Alex's if that's what it took to keep you safe."

She sighed and I heard her whisper, "I don't deserve someone like you. I'm a monster."

Her voice was so desolate that it froze my heart. I didn't know what else to say so I just continued to soothe her as best as I could.

The clouds continued to move across the sky as the day turned to night. We stayed there—her on my lap and me stroking her hair. Eventually, she fell asleep and I carried her to bed. After a quick shower, I climbed in bed next to her and wrapped my arms around her. She sobbed throughout the night but I was there to surround her with love.

The next morning I awoke to find the side of her bed empty. A quick check of her side informed me that it had been empty for some time—her sheets were cold. "Rachel?" I was bleary-eyed and sporting a none-so-subtle headache. As I slid my feet into my slippers, the events of the previous day came rushing back. I touched my face where he had hit me and it felt fine and other than some sore hands and a sore side, I felt good. "Rachel?" I tried again, this time louder. I didn't hear anything.

I walked downstairs and looked into the living room. Rachel wasn't there. I headed into the kitchen and she wasn't there, but a quick glance outside the sliding doors and I saw her seated on the patio. I walked towards the patio and slid back the door. She was staring at the sky. She looked like she was looking at some far off place.

I touched her shoulder, "Rachel?"

When she turned her head in my direction I took a startled step back. Her face and body resembled my wife but her eyes did not. Those brown orbs looked like they belonged to a shattered and lost person—not Rachel.

I knelt down next to her, "Honey?"

She blinked as her eyes locked in on me and came into focus once more. "J-Jake?"

"Yes. It's me, honey. What are you doing out here? You're freezing. Come inside."

She shook her head. "I can't Jake. I don't belong here."

"What are you talking about Rachel? This is your home."

"My home?" I saw her eyes waver once more. She repeated, "My home." But this time it was slower, as if she were testing out words that she was unfamiliar with.

I didn't know what was going through her mind but I knew I couldn't leave her alone right now. I scooped her into my arms and carried her inside the house and up the stairs. She didn't say anything as I laid her on the bed and headed into bathroom and ran a hot bath. When I came back out she was sobbing.

"Rachel?" I sat down next to her. "Talk to me, baby. Where's your head at right now?"

But she didn't open up. She just continued to cry. While the tub filled, I headed downstairs and poured two cups of coffee. I added whole milk to hers and a dab of honey—just the way she likes it. When she smelled the combination of dark coffee and honey, her eyes brightened. She grabbed her cup from my hand and placed it under her nose and took a deep inhale. "Mmmm! Thank you, Jake."

"Of course, my love."

We drank our coffees in silence until I decided to check the tub. It was full so I went back out to get Rachel. The coffee had done its work and she was more alert.

"I ran you a bath, baby. Why don't you get in? I'm going to call the office and let them know that I won't be coming in today."

Placing her coffee on her nightstand, she rotated her head from shoulder to shoulder, letting out a satisfied sigh when she was done. "No, don't. I'm okay now. I was just feeling bad. I know this is a new position for you. You can't just not show up. I'll be okay. I'm not going in today so I think I might just hang out here."

"Are you sure?" I didn't want to leave her if she needed me.

"I'm sure. Besides, we're going to be seeing Dr. Jeffries tonight. I think after everything that happened, an emergency session is in order. I'll call her and set it up. It's probably best that I rest up first."

"Hmm. Okay. If you're sure. Then I'm going to head downstairs and make some breakfast. Hungry?"

"Starving."

"Preference?"

She stood and started to undress. "No, anything sounds good."

"Alright." I kissed her and then headed downstairs as she climbed in the tub.

After breakfast and a shower, I got ready and headed into the office. Rachel assured me that she would be fine by herself and I believed her. Still, I did make her promise to text me throughout the day to let me know how she was feeling.

The atmosphere at work was outstanding. Not only was it Friday and payday, but our lawyers labored with my new acquisition's lawyers all last night until the deal was finalized. We now had a 5-year contract to represent one of the largest financial firms in the country. This would net us 8 to 9 figures...easy! When I walked in the door it was like I was walking through a tickertape parade. There was fanfare, hands to shake, people to hug and congratulations thrown all around. It was an amazing experience.

It took me a whole two hours just to make it from the front door to my office. Of course, all that levity took its toll. My hands were badly bruised after my scuffle yesterday and with all the hands to shake and the high-fives, they were more than throbbing. I asked Sarah (my new assistant) to grab me some cold compresses.

The one face I didn't see through all of this was Toni, Rachel's younger sister. When I found out about Rachel's affair Toni was there to comfort me. She did so by providing her body to me and then as soon as we were finished, she begged me not to leave her sister. It was odd (to say the least) but it happened. Nevertheless, despite the mistake of us falling into bed together, Toni is and always has been a great friend. So I was shocked when I didn't see her as part of the congratulatory hoard.

That shock didn't last long. As soon as my door closed, my face was grabbed and pulled down and to the side. Two pillows planted a deep kiss on my lips as my eyes widened. Pulling back, she smiled. "This is the type of welcome the conquering hero deserves."

"Toni!" She released me and I stumbled back into the door. "What are you doing here?"

She sauntered over towards my desk and sat down on the edge. I watched the tight pencil skirt stretch as it valiantly contained her generous curves. "I just thought it would be easier to see you if I waited. Who would've thought I would need to wait so long?"

"Yeah, it's pretty crazy out there." I sat my bag down and flopped into my chair. Toni watched the entire time.

"They're just excited. You've singlehandedly guaranteed end of year bonuses for everyone here for the next 10 years at least."

"It's just an account."

"It's a _huge_ account."

"Fine... _huge_."

She turned so that I could see more of her face. "What's wrong with you today?"

"Nothing." Sarah knocked on the door and came in with the compresses. "Thanks, Sarah."

She smiled, prettily. "You're welcome, sir." She looked at Toni and her smile faltered, but when she looked back at me, it was brighter than it was before. "Is there anything else you'd like? Anything at all?"

"No, that's all Sarah. Thanks." I saw her shoulders slump a little before she turned to leave.

Once the door closed, Toni smiled, "She wants to fuck you something fierce!"

"What?" I looked back at the door. Sure she's nice and very friendly but that doesn't mean that she wants me. "You're crazy." When I pressed the compresses to my hands, the cold sensation was heavenly.

"Nothing crazy about it. She wants you...well, she wants your cock."

"Toni!"

She shrugged, "What? I'm just telling you what I see."

"What you _think_ you see."

"No, what I know."

"Whatever."

I closed my eyes as my hands continued to throb. I felt her move closer. When I opened my eyes, she was standing over me, looking down at my hands. "What happened to you?"

"Nothing."

"Nothing? That doesn't look like nothing." She pushed back my chair and gently held my hands in hers as she inspected them closer. "These look like cuts. What? Have you been fighting?" She started to laugh but when I looked away, her laughter stopped short. "Holy shit! You got into a fight?"

I nodded. "Yeah, yesterday."

"At the meeting?"

"No. After."

"Who'd you fight? Why?"

"I ran into Rachel's ex. He was with Rachel."

Her eyes got large. "Holy hell. Were they...you know?"

I shook my head. "No. I mean, I thought they were. That's why I followed them. But that's not what happened."

"Oh! Hmm."

"What?"

"Nothing. It's just that I think I'm going to need to have a sit down with big sis."

"Yeah, you should. I'm sure she'd give you all the details."

"Well, are you okay?"

"My hands hurt and my side is a little sore. Other than that I feel great actually."

"Well I'm glad you're not seriously injured."

"Yeah. But I have to say...after everything that happened it feels great to have had something to hit."

She rolled her eyes in dramatic effect. "You're not going to turn into some thug now are you?"

"Thug?" I laughed. "Do I look like much of a thug to you?"

She leaned down and kissed me. "No. You look like a king." She looked over her shoulder and then walked towards my door and locked it. After which she closed the curtains. Walking towards me, she pulled at the drawstring that was tied in a large bow at the top of her blouse. The loosened material spread until her ample bosom was on display and I could just make out the edges of her violet-colored bra.

"Toni? What are you doing?"

She pushed my chair back. "Thanking you."

"Thanking me? For what?"

"Does it matter?"

"Yeah. Kind of."

"Well then, I'm thanking you for yesterday. I don't know what happened between you and Rachel but I'm sure you were your usual Knight-in-shining-armor self." She fell to her knees and quickly unbuckled my pants and unzipped my zipper. My cock was in her mouth before I had a chance to consider what was happening.

"T-Toni, hup! W-w-we can't." Holy shit! It was only a week ago that she was a virgin now she was giving me the best head of my life. I was powerless to resist.

I was fighting not to moan but it was no use. She was incredible.

She pulled me out of her mouth and smiled. "Don't fight it, Jacob. We don't have all the time in the world. People will be coming soon and it'll be strange if the door is locked." She opened her mouth nice and wide and pointed into her throat. "This is where I want you to explode. Don't hold back. Fuck my face until you cum."

She sucked my cock back into her mouth with enough force to pull me from my chair. I was standing over her as she sat back on her heels. With one hand on the desk and the other on her head, I fucked her for all that I was worth. The only sounds that emanated from the two of us were my steady groans of pleasure and her constant "Gwak! Gwak!", as I bottomed out in her throat. When I came, I came buckets. She swallowed it all.

I fell back on my chair with a loud sigh. The guilt crept in immediately. "Toni..." Whatever I was going to say was lost as she leaned forward to clean me up with her mouth. Once she was finished, she stood up and re-laced her shirt.

"There! That's better." She was smiling.

"W-why'd you do that?"

"Do what?" She blinked innocently.

"That!" I didn't know how to say it.

"What? You didn't like it? I thought you did. You had me gagging and just kept steaming ahead."

"I-I...your sister." I wasn't making any sense.

Fortunately, Toni still understood. "Like I said before, don't worry. I'm not going to steal you away from her. But you looked like you could really use that. Besides...I've kinda missed it."

"Missed it? It was only that one time."

She flipped her hair over her shoulder. "I know...I kinda thought you would...no, never mind. I'm just a little frustrated that's all."

"Frustrated? About what?"

"Well, I've been seeing this guy. He's hot so I thought we would...you know."

I did know. "So?"

"Well...he's not. I mean it wasn't very...good."

"Oh!"

"Y-yeah."

"You know there's other guys out there. If this one doesn't pan out then you could get another. You could probably get any guy that you want."

She looked at me, her eyes piercing. "Not _any_ guy."

I didn't need a sign to go with that statement. I read her correctly. I didn't know what to say so I didn't say anything.

After a few minutes she happily chirped. "Oh well! The best one's are always taken. It doesn't matter though. It's Friday and I have a date with a different guy tonight. We'll see how it goes."

She left shortly after that. I saw her throughout the day but other than a smile here and there, she didn't come speak to me. I didn't seek her out either. I mean...what could I say? She clearly has a thing for me but won't do anything because I'm married to her sister. If you asked me if I like her back the answer is yes...but Rachel is my wife. And despite my actions, I do love her with all that I am. A contradiction I know...but it's true.

"He got into a fight?" Dr. Jeffries... _Amara_ (as she preferred to be called) looked over her note pad as Rachel and I sat across from her. Her chocolate eyes were staring at us in shock. She didn't expect this and was trying to process the information.

Rachel and I nodded. "Yeah, it was yesterday. That's sort of why I called to schedule this meeting. It was a pretty big thing."

"Uh huh. Who did you fight, Jake?"

I looked at Rachel nervously. She seemed better than she had when I left her earlier in the morning but there was still a roughness to her that concerned me. When she nodded, I explained. "I got into a fight with the guy she was sleeping with."

Amara cut her eyes and sat her notepad down. "I didn't think it was necessary to discuss this with you two, but it seems I was wrong. Jake, while it is perfectly natural to want to hurt someone that was responsible for causing you pain, I have to caution you from displaying this type of hostility. Not only is it dangerous to you, physically, it can also be detrimental to your marriage."

Rachel leaned forward, "No, you don't understand, Amara. He did it to protect me."

"Protect you?"

"Yeah."

"How?"

Now it was Rachel's turn to look at me. I nodded and she continued. "Alex had been threatening me. I didn't tell Jake that because I thought I could handle it. He said that he only want to talk to me...to try to convince me why we should stay together. I agreed to meet him without telling Jake because I wanted to end things with him once and for all. But I didn't...I didn't know if he was telling the truth. He's known as kind of a hothead. That's one of the things that attracted me to him. Jake's so calm and composed all the time and I thought that someone like that would be more exciting. Anyway, just in case, I brought the gun that Jake got me a few years ago." She paused, remembering it all over again. "W-when we got into the room, I told him that I only came to tell him we were through. I didn't want to see him again. He said that I'd have to kill him to keep him away from me. He pressed me against the wall and started t-t-trying to...he started trying to..." I gripped her hand to let her know I was there. She took a deep breath and sighed. "He tried to have his way with me. He hit me and I pulled out the gun. That was when Jake showed up. I didn't know how he knew but I was glad for it. I was so mad and scared that I almost..." She let her voice trail as I held her.

Amara was quiet as she watched us. After a few minutes of silence she spoke softly, "Did you call the police?"

She shook her head. "No. I was afraid. Jake...Jake hurt him. Bad. I didn't want to chance him going to jail for my mistakes."

Now Amara looked at me. "What do you think of all of this, Jake?"

"I'm pissed. He put his hands on my wife. That's it. I'm just pissed."

"Hmm." Amara looked at us both while tapping her pen against her notepad. After a bit, she continued. "I'd like to start seeing you both individually a couple of times a week. We will continue to have a group session at the end of the week but I think it would be better if we started this new type of treatment arrangement."

"Why?" I didn't understand what the point in going to couple's therapy was if we didn't go as a couple.

"Well, this new development has made it clear that there are individual issues that need to be addressed. I think that addressing these as individuals and then discussing them as a group will help you each better understand your feelings." Now she looked at Rachel, a worried look on her face. "Besides...I think it may be for the best." She didn't need to telegraph that pass...I got it. Rachel was unraveling. I knew it and Amara knew it too.

"Okay." I gripped Rachel's hand and she nodded. If that were what it took to help Rachel then I would do it.

"Great. So tell me about the progress you've made on your intimacy assignments."

We talked about the last week and how we refrained from sex and replaced it with talking and getting to know each other better. We spent more one-on-one time with each other and without technology as a buffer. It's only been a few days since we started therapy, but I now felt closer to Rachel than I have in years.

After the session we were given our walking papers with our new individual sessions scheduled. The one good thing that came out of this appointment was that, as long as we continued to build on non-sexual intimacy, we were no longer barred form having sex.

"Rachel?" Once we made it home, Rachel went straight to bed. I went to check on her after about half an hour. The lights were off and I heard her steady breathing. When I spoke her name she didn't stir. There was still enough light in the room to make out her beautiful face. When I moved her hair from her face, I saw that her eyelids were slightly swollen. She must've cried herself to sleep.

I didn't know how to reach her. Clearly, what happened with Alex in the hotel had a horrible effect on her. Without knowing what to do, I went to find my phone. I decided to enlist Toni's help.

Hey. I need your help.

Her response came a few minutes later.

Hey, bro! What up?

It's Rachel. She's having a hard time. I was hoping you could come by and see her tomorrow.

Hmm...Well I have plans with some girls from work in the morning and afternoon and a date tomorrow night. What's going on?

I'm not sure. She's just different. I don't know how to explain it.

It's probably about the fight.

I know it's about the fight.

Then why worry? She'll be okay.

I'm not so sure about that.

So what do you want me to do?

I want you to come see her. Pretty please.

 How can I refuse you? But you're going to owe me.

Thanks, T! Anything. Just ask.

Okay, will do! I'll let you know what I decide.

Cool! So when do you think you'll be able to come see her?

Well tomorrow doesn't work so I'll come by on Sunday and take her out.

Awesome! You're a lifesaver.

I know, right?!!!

LOL! Thanks.

No prob. TTYL!

Rachel looked worried as she kissed me for the third time before leaving. "We'll be back in just a few hours. Okay?"

I laughed. "Okay, sweetheart. Just go have a good time with your sister." As promised, Toni came over early to pick up Rachel. They solidified their plans yesterday. Throughout the day I was able to get Rachel to talk to me but she mostly just clung to me. We wasted away our Saturday on the couch with a book in my hand and several magazines in hers. When Toni called her to invite her out I saw a very recognizable emotion flash in Rachel's eyes. Nervousness.

It was easy to figure out why. Since confessing her affair to her sister a week ago, Rachel and Toni haven't spent any time alone. This would be the first time and Rachel was afraid to face her sister. I assured her that she would be okay. Unfortunately, those assurances fell on deaf ears. When Toni showed up, her face was tight as she tried to smile brightly. It was obvious that neither of them was really looking forward to this but knew it had to happen.

"Don't worry, bro. I won't keep her out that long." Toni was waiting by the door scowling each time Rachel kissed me. I pretended not to notice.

"It's fine, Toni. You ladies just have a good time doing whatever the hell you're going to do."

"Just some girl time, Jacob. Don't worry. I'm not going to steal her away. Come on, sis."

With one final imploring look in my direction, one final kiss and the resulting scowl, I waved them goodbye.

2 hours went by. 3 hours went by. 5 hours went by. When I finally started to worry, I got a text from Toni.

Hey bro! Just want to let you know that sis and I are having a blast! It's gonna be a while.

Thanks for letting me know, T.

Of course...remember. YOU. OWE. ME.

LOL! Should I be scared?

LOL! Only if you try to weasel out of your deals.

I'm nervous! Did I just make a deal with the Devil?

No! Besides I don't even know what I'm going to make you do/give me. Maybe a 6-figure raise...

Maybe you're dreaming...

LOL! You can't blame a hot girl for trying.

LOL! No, I guess not.

You just called me hot!

YOU just called YOU hot.

Yeah. But YOU didn't deny it.

I guess not. 

Hehe! Love ya, bro!

Yeah, I love you too. Have fun.

Roger that!

When Toni finally dropped Rachel off, the day was about over. I heard the girls giggling as Rachel's keys knocked against the door.

"You're kidding!" Rachel laughed.

"Not even a little...and I mean _little_."

"Oh my God! Toni!"

I heard them both laugh as I came across the entrance. "Hey ladies."

"Hey honey!"

"Hey bro!"

"You two look like you've had a great time."

"The greatest!" Rachel pulled at Toni's face and kissed her cheek, to which Toni giggled.

It was nice to see the two of them getting along the way that they had before everything happened. It was even better to see some more life in Rachel's face. I don't know how Toni did it but I was grateful to her that she did.

Hand-in-hand, I watched as Rachel led Toni into our kitchen. I followed behind.

"Babe can you grab a couple wine glasses, please."

"Sure." Placing the two glasses before the two beautiful sisters, I leaned back against the opposite counter and watched them. All pretense of unease that I felt earlier were no longer visible. They buried the hatchet and it seemed that they both were enjoying each other's company. I left them to it.

I was just climbing out of the shower when I heard a knock on my bedroom door. "Jacob?"

I knew who it was without looking. Toni was pretty much the only one that called me by my full name. Towel around my waist, I headed out of the bathroom. "Hey, Toni."

She saw me and took a slow look up and down my body. I knew this towel didn't block anything from her view. To her, I was completely naked.

She swallowed loudly, "Umm, I umm...I just wanted to say bye. I'm heading out." Her hand twitched like she wanted to touch me and she took a breath to say something else, but at that moment Rachel appeared.

"Jake! Put some clothes on! There're ladies present." She laughed loudly and pulled her sister's arm. She fell on the bed and pulled Toni down on top of her. Toni laughed and adjusted herself. Her cheeks were pink as she avoided eye contact with me.

Okay...I'll admit it. Seeing these two on my bed was more than a little tempting. Rachel's petite and succulent figure next to Toni's voluptuous and fine figure was more than this old boy could handle. While Rachel laughed, Toni watched me with an oddly deep look in her eyes. I felt my cock throb and knew that while I was in this towel it wouldn't hide a damn thing.

I turned to leave and Rachel called, "Jake! Give us a show baby! Drop that towel!"

I felt the blood leave my cock and rush to my face. I stammered, "R-R-Rachel!"

Even Toni looked embarrassed.

Rachel rolled on her back and laughed. "I'm just kidding! God, you can be too serious sometimes. Besides, its not like Toni would want to see you naked."

Embarrassed, I marched into our closet. By the time I emerged, Toni was long gone.

"Where'd Toni go?"

Rachel was sitting with her back against our headboard. Her eyes were trained on the closet. "She went home."

I let out a sigh of relief. "Oh okay. Good." Rachel laughed. She obviously misinterpreted my relief, but I wasn't about to correct her.

I walked towards the bed as Rachel pulled herself up to her knees. Her eyes were dark and it was clear what she wanted.

I stopped at the end of the bed and watched as she pulled at the bottom of her halter. "Did you know that Toni was a virgin?"

I felt cold sweats suddenly appear as she spoke of her younger sister. "R-really?"

Her shirt was pulled from her body. Her bare breasts were partially exposed as her long dark hair obscured them. But even with that I could tell that they were small and perky. Her hands went to her tan shorts as her fingers worked her button. "Yeah. I never told you because...well _you_ know. It wasn't my place."

Did she know? Did Toni tell her what happened on this very bed? "W-why are you telling me now?"

"Well..." she fell back on the bed as she raised her legs, pulling and pushing her shorts and panties up and then down her legs. Within moments her glistening pussy was before my eyes. "She told me about how she lost her virginity. She told me _a lot_ of things. Details and all. She told me the story and it got me really hot. I couldn't wait to come home to you. I want you." She spread her legs as she plucked two fingers in her mouth and then plunged them into her tight cunt. She shook as her fingers plunged inside of her, "Oh my God! I want you, Jake. I need you to take me baby."

I wasn't man enough to stop myself. Perhaps I should've but I didn't. I pulled off my t-shirt and slipped off my underwear. I crawled closer to her as she watched me. The sight before me was beyond mouthwatering.

She nodded slowly as she watched me. "Yes", she moaned. I pressed my lips against her lower lips and she cried, "Yes!"

I lapped at her juices like I was a man dying of thirst. I tasted her essence and it was glorious. I felt her excitement grow as I felt myself expand until the point that my throbbing cock hurt. She pressed her legs together and held my face in place as she rode me roughly. Her full bush tickled my nose as her mound moved up and down, and side to side. She fucked my face like she wanted to punish me. It was a punishment that I was more than willing to accept.

"I'm going to cum! I'm going to cum on your fucking face!" She moved faster and faster as I continued to taste her. With a loud sigh and a soft squeak, she lifted her hips off the ground as I felt her thighs trembling. "Holy shit!"

When she released me, I sat back on my ankles, my hard and throbbing cock pointing towards the sky. I wiped her nectar from my face and chin as I watched her chest heave.

Her brown eyes were beautiful and filled with fire. She smiled salaciously, "Damn! I've really missed that." She slowly picked herself up as she crawled towards me. Once she was before me she looked at my throbbing member and smiled again. I felt her small hand close around the base of my cock as her mouth went to my hanging sac.

I tilted my head back and moaned as her tongue danced between my balls and her mouth closed around my sac. Her hand steadily moved up and down as my pre-cum further advertised my excitement. Her excitement made her dark eyes even darker. She licked a bead of pre-cum from my tip before bobbing her head up and down my rod. I tilted my head back and moaned.

"Mmmm! Do you like that, baby?"

I did. I liked it a lot! "Hell yes."

"Good. Now lie down." I quickly spread myself on the bed. She didn't miss a beat. By the time my back hit the covers she was already straddling me. I looked up and saw a mischievous light in her eyes. When she spoke I was nearly swept away by her pure state of arousal. "I'm going to fuck you, Jake. I'm going to fuck you hard. I'm going to ride your cock like it's your last day on Earth."

Without waiting for my reply, she slid her wet folds from the base of my cock to the tip. Suddenly, her hot flesh enveloped me as she bore down from all sides. Despite her earlier statement, when I bottomed out she froze, her head tilted back in open-mouthed ecstasy. "Shit! Yes!"

Placing my hands on her hips I lifted her and my butt off the bed. She screamed, "Fuck!" I did it again and again. Each time I got deeper and deeper. Soon she was returning the favor. Her hips moved back and forth as I drove her from the bottom. But when that wasn't enough, she started bouncing on my cock. We matched our rhythms. When I drove up, she smashed down. Soon we were both covered in sweat and out of breath.

"Fuck! Rachel!"

"Give me that fucking cock! Give it to me!" She rode me harder than she had in years. Hell, I don't even remember the last time she fucked me so hard. Her nails were in my chest hair. Her lips were curled back in a salacious grimace. Her eyes were tightly shut. She was close. I could feel it.

I pounded her faster as she strained to keep pace with me.

"F-fuck! I'm cumming, Jake! I'm cumming!"

I grunted, "Me too. I'm close."

"Cum with me! Fill me up! Please! Please! Oh shit!"

I came inside of her and I felt like I was never going to stop. As our mutual orgasms hit it felt like we reached a point of mutual resonance. Her orgasm increased the intensity of my own and vice versa.

My body was shaking and tense but at the same time I felt release and an odd numbness. It came in crashing waves, over and over again.

When her face touched my chest, I wrapped my arms around her. "Jesus fucking hell! That was incredible, Jake." She kissed my lips deeply and smiled. For the first time since the incident in the hotel, it seemed like Rachel was back in one piece. I didn't want to jinx it so I didn't say anything. Instead, I held her and let my love and affection encapsulate her. The only thing that marred the moment was the realization that one-day I will need to tell her about the affair with Toni. But that day wasn't going to be today. No, today I was going to hold my wife and I was going to love her in every way that I can.

"I think I'm going to quit my job." Rachel was sitting at the island, drinking her first cup of coffee for the day. She was dressed in a dark A-line skirt and a midnight blue blouse. Her hair was tied atop her head and she wore her eyeglasses. She looked like a naughty and super sexy secretary.

I swallowed the croissant I was eating. "That's fine."

She nodded as if she expected my response. But then again, why wouldn't she? I've told her for years that she doesn't have to work if she doesn't want to. Her voice was flat, but I heard a deep melancholy. "That's fine. Yeah. Fine. It's fine if I give up my identity. It's fine if I don't know what I'm going to do. It's fine. It's all fine."

I touched her shoulder. "Rachel?" My voice was soft but she still looked at me like I had just called her out of her name.

"Why, Jake?"

"I don't understand." It was true. I had no idea where her head was.

"Why do you still love me?"

This conversation was about as linear and predictable as a monkey jumping on a pogo stick while riding a merry-go-round. I thought I understood where her head was at. She wants to quit her job because Alex is there and that was how she met him. She felt guilty. The whole identity thing and the 'why do I love her' thing were curve balls that I didn't see coming.

"You're my wife and my best friend, Rachel. Of course I love you."

"So you love me because you have to love me?" She was nearly in tears.

I had to play this one carefully. "No. I love you because I love you. I don't have a logical reason for it. It's just what I feel."

"Hmm." She refused to elaborate further.

"Where's all this coming from, sweetie?" I tried to put my arm around her but she stepped out of my grasp at the last second.

"I'm sorry, Jake. I'm just a little depressed. I need to get going. I'll see you tonight. We have our sessions tonight."

"Yeah. Mine is at 6. Yours is at 6:45, right?"

She nodded. "Yeah."

"Want me to wait for you? Maybe we can grab a late dinner or something."

She smiled...sort of, "Yeah, sounds great." She kissed me and then headed towards the garage.

I went to the front window and watched her drive away. She wasn't doing well. I guess the sex and her 180 last night was just a fluke. She's _not_ okay and I don't know how to help her. Standing at the window wouldn't do me any good. It was a little early but nothing was keeping me at home. I headed to work, too.

It was after 1 by the time I got Toni alone. I was having lunch at my desk, going over paperwork when I heard her sweet voice chatting with Sarah. I poked my head out of the door and sure enough there she was, bent over so that her thick thighs, hips and ass made a mouthwatering heart shape in the air. Sarah's face was pink and she was firmly shaking her head to the side. Toni was smiling evilly. It looked like she was having a lot of fun at my assistant's expense.

"Ahem!" Upon hearing my voice, Toni stood upright. She looked like her hand had been caught in the proverbial cookie jar. Sarah's face was bright red and her eyes darted in any and every direction where I wasn't. "What're you two talking about?"

My innocent question caused an even darker hue of red to color Sarah's face. Toni smiled in a devious way and then walked over towards me. "Oh nothing. Just a little girl talk." I turned to Sarah to get her take but Toni already had me in her clutches. Grabbing my arm, she turned me in the direction of my office. "I'm glad you're here, Jacob. I was having an issue with one of the accounts and I wanted to get your take."

Once the door was shut, Toni bent over in laughter. "What's so funny?"

She wiped tears from her eyes. "Oh nothing. Sometimes its just fun messing with people."

My voice was stern, "Toni. Don't torture my assistant. She's a good girl."

Her laughter was brought up short. "I don't think any girl is a _good_ girl. But okay. I'll stop teasing her."

I knew that she wouldn't tell me what they were talking about. Besides, I didn't really care.

Toni pulled up a chair as I sat behind my desk. "So, I guess I don't need to ask what happened after I left yesterday?"

Just the thought of what happened yesterday after Rachel got back home was enough to stop my heart. "Yeah. What the hell? What did you tell her? I thought..."

"Thought what? That I'd tell my sister that I boned her husband? No thanks. I told her about the sex but I made up the guy. She thinks that he was some dude I met in a bar."

"And you're okay with her thinking that?"

"Well what's the alternative? She _might_ forgive you...but she would never forgive me. No, I think I'll take that secret to my grave."

"Yeah...about that..." I didn't know how to tell Toni, but I decided that I had to fess up to Rachel about the affair.

But she knew what I was going to say. "Jacob! No! Don't you dare!"

"But she deserves to know. Besides it's not right to keep it a secret from her. I'll tell her about it but not that it was you."

She tossed her head back. Her dark curls making a wide arc in the sky. "Well that's the dumbest thing I've ever heard anyone say about anything...ever!"

"Toni."

She held her hand up. "No, wait. How do you think that conversation is going to go? Huh? You think she or any woman would just let you keep the name of the person you slept with a secret? The answer is no. She will find out. Either you'll tell her or she'll figure out another way."

"Toni, you're the one that told me about her affair. You told me because you thought I deserved the truth. How can you ask me not to tell her?"

"Simple. I lied when I told you that."

"Huh? What are you talking about?"

She ran her fingers through her hair. "Well, I didn't totally lie. I did think that you deserved to know but the real reason I told you was because that was the only way that I knew of to get you to sleep with me."

I must've heard wrong. "Wait. What?"

"Come on, Jacob. You know that I've had a thing for you for years right? It was so obvious. At least I thought it was. The issue was that I knew you would never cheat on my sister. So when I found out about her affair I thought that would be a good opportunity. Maybe my only opportunity to get you to sleep with me. Don't get me wrong, I hated that she cheated on you. It was super stupid. But the truth is I used it to get what I want and I don't feel bad about it."

I sat silently while this marinated. After several minutes I found my voice. "Toni, you just don't want me to tell her because of how it will affect you. That's not good enough. I really want to make this marriage work and the only way to do that is to be honest. You have to understand."

She cut her eyes at me. "You want to make your marriage work? Jacob, you _fucked_ me in your own bed, and a few days ago I sucked your dick right here in this office. It's a little late to be saying that don't you think?"

She had a point. My track record wasn't very good but I had to change that. I had had my fun. Now it's time to sober up and do what I need to do as both a husband and a man. I was getting ready to say as much to Toni when she spoke first.

"Besides, this isn't just about me. It only took two minutes with my sister to see how damaged she is. That fight in the hotel really bothered her. I thought that if I could get her mind off of it all by talking about my escapades, then I would." I couldn't argue with her. Rachel had been different ever since then and if this morning were any indication, things would likely get worse. She must've smelled blood in the water because she pressed forward with a fierce look in her eyes. "Look, Jacob. I know you want to be the good guy, but is this really the best way to go about it?"

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that you want to tell her the truth just so that you can be freed of your guilt. You're not even considering how it would affect her. Rachel needs you now more than ever and if you do this then she'll shatter. If you really care about her then you'll keep this a secret for the rest of your life. If you really want to be selfless, you'll let yourself feel this pain and guilt for the rest of your days and not burden your wife with a truth that she'll never be ready to hear."

Now it was my turn to toss my head back. "That all sounds awfully convenient...for _you_."

She didn't hesitate, "It is. Sue me. But you know I'm not wrong. Telling Rachel would be a mistake. You know it and I know it."

I sighed, she was right but that didn't stop this from eating me up. Despite my sense of pride and duty, I knew that Toni had a point. If I really wanted to protect her then maybe keeping this a secret was the best thing for her. "Fine. I agree."

She smiled sweetly, "Good." I'll have to remember the advice she gave me earlier. There are no _good_ girls. It wasn't that I thought Toni was exactly _bad_ or a bad person, but I would've never thought she would manipulate a situation that was so damaging for me just so that it could benefit her. All the same, she did and I will need to remember this.

Knock! Knock! Knock!

When my door swung open, it was Sarah.

"Excuse the interruption, sir."

I smiled warmly, "It's fine, Sarah. And just call me Jake."

She smiled brightly, "Okay, _Jake_."

"So what's up?"

"Oh! Sorry. You have a guest, si—I mean Jake."

When she stepped aside Rachel moved forward. I jumped up when I saw her and rushed to her. Holding her tightly, I said, "Hey sweetie! What brings you over here?"

She looked uncomfortable as her eyes shifted from Toni to Sarah and back to me. "Sorry to bother you at work, honey."

"It's no bother. Hang on though." I could tell that whatever she came to say, she only wanted to say it to me. I turned to each girl in turn, "Sarah. Toni. Could you both excuse us please?"

They left without saying another word. However, Toni stopped for only a moment to kiss Rachel's cheek. Rachel looked at her and smiled weakly. Whatever traction they had made yesterday was decreased by whatever it was that was bothering Rachel.

Now, alone in my office, Rachel turned to me and kissed me deeply. I heard the handle on the door lock as she turned the mechanism. When we separated there was fire in her eyes. It took my breath away. I barely breathed, "Rachel" before I felt her hands on my chest and she was pushing me back.

As I fell back on the corner of my desk, she shimmied out of her panties. She grabbed them and stuffed them in her purse. Tossing her purse on the same chair that Toni was just in, she grabbed my hand and led me to my chair. Pushing me back, she went straight for my belt. She unclasped the belt in record time and then she went to the button and zipper. All the while, she didn't speak.

"Rachel?"

She looked up at me. Her eyes were dark and wild. "Shh!"

Once she had unzipped and unbuckled my pants she tried to work them down. I lifted my bottom so that she would have the room she needed. My cock hadn't fully swollen so she took my soft cock in her mouth and rolled it around her tongue as my member slowly filled with blood. Once I was nice and hard, she stood and hiked up her skirt. She stuck 3 fingers in her mouth and pulled them out. There was a long line of saliva that followed, she used it to spread her pussy and get it even wetter before she climbed on top of me.

Her hot entrance wrapped around me and I felt like I was in Heaven. "Oh shit! That feels so good, baby."

Slowly, as she pressed herself down, she leaned forward and kissed my neck. She whispered in my ear, "It's so big. I love it when you stretch me out."

Once she was as far down as she could go, she leaned back. "I'm going to fuck you, husband. I'm going to fuck you so you never forget what it feels like to be inside of this pussy." She started rocking harder and harder.

Her lips were pressed to mine so that she wouldn't moan too loud. She kept up her pace as long as she could. Once her face was covered in sweat, she spun and lifted one leg on the desk. I stood up behind her and lined up. She was breathing heavily as her face was pressed against the desk. When I was ready to force my throbbing prick inside of her, I heard a shocked gasp. I looked down at Rachel and she was still breathing heavily with her eyes closed. The sound came from my left. I turned my head and noticed that my previously closed and locked door was both unlocked and opened a crack. Through that crack I saw a shocked eye watching us. At first I thought it was Toni, coming back to be a fly on the wall. However, the eye that stared back at me was a lighter color than Toni's brown eyes. I couldn't tell who it was from the eye but I knew it was a woman.

The mystery guest watched me as I watched her. Neither of us moved as I tried to figure out who could be behind the door. However, Rachel soon grew impatient with my lack of movement. She looked back at me, oblivious to the presence of our visitor, "Jake, honey. Please. Please fuck me hard. I need it."

Hearing her words, I had no choice but to obey. Pressing my swollen head against her wet entrance, I stared at the peeking eye as I slowly filled my wife to the brim. "Oh shit!" She bit her hand to muffle her cries.

The eye watched me and I watched the eye as I fucked my wife senseless on my desk.

My hips moved in and out of her in a blur. I felt her slender ass get squished as I slammed into her. The floating eye watched us in fascination. "Holy fucking Christ! You're so good, Jake!"

Rachel was sliding across my desk as her skirt was pulled up to her back. Her ass was exposed in the air and all you could hear was a squelching sound as my dripping cock slid in and out of her slick pussy and the steady slapping of our bodies as they crashed into each other.

She pressed herself against me and squeezed down as hard as she could. It felt incredible. Despite the intimacy of the moment, the eye didn't look away. It continued to watch me as I had a little _afternoon delight_ with my wife. While I can easily say that my wife is a stunning woman (beyond stunning, really), it was obvious that the eye wasn't watching her. I could feel its glare all over my body. I felt exposed in a way that I have never been before...and a part of me liked it.

"Yes! Yes! More! I'm going to cum! Cum with me!"

I moved faster and faster. As I did, I got the sense of a building excitement coming from the person on the other side of the door. When I came I bit my own lip so that I wouldn't cry out. Rachel shook as she took my seed inside of her womb along with her orgasm. She sighed loudly as she came. I leaned over her and kissed her cheek. I looked at the eye and it blinked and then pulled the door closed silently. I watched as the lock turned and then we were alone once again.

Rachel shook as I pulled out. I grabbed a box of tissues and handed it to her after taking a few for myself. We were silent as we cleaned up. Once that was done and she slid her panties back on, I grabbed her hand and pulled her against me. I was sitting on the edge of my desk and held her in my arms. I kissed her deeply. "That was incredible. I'm glad you came."

"R-really?" She seemed unsure of herself so I kissed her again.

"Of course. I'm always happy to see you, my love." When she smiled there wasn't an ounce of trauma that I saw in her this morning. "So is that the only reason you came to see me? If so then I wouldn't mind at all."

She sighed sweetly and smiled, "That was a big reason. But no, there was another reason."

"What's up baby?"

"Well, it's about work. Alex came back to the office today."

Just hearing his name made me feel angry and frustrated. "He didn't bother you did he?"

She pressed her palm to my face, "No, honey. He didn't even look at me."

"Good."

She tilted her head, "Is it?"

"Well yeah. I mean he tried to...he tried to rape you. Of course I think it would be good if he didn't look at you."

"I know. But what I mean is that I worked very hard to get where I am in my career but now I don't even know if I want it. Everything about that place seems poisonous now and it's all my fault."

"I don't get what you're saying."

"I mean I just want a change that's all. I don't want to go in the office only to be reminded about all of my mistakes."

"So what's your plan? Are you going to quit?"

"I don't know. I talked to my boss today and she said I should take a couple of days to decide if I want to stay or not."

"Did you tell her about..."

She shook her head. "No. I didn't tell her about Alex. I don't know if she knows or not but I didn't need to tell her anything other than that I was thinking of leaving."

"I see. So where do we go from here?"

"I'm not sure yet. But I wanted to let you know what I was thinking about. Are you okay with all of this?"

I kissed her again, "Honey, I just want you to be happy. That's all. So if you're not happy there then we'll find a place where you can be happy."

"Thanks, Jake. I don't know what I would do without you."

"I love you, Rachel."

"I love you, too."

We kissed again and she told me that she would probably spend the rest of the day at a day spa and that she would see me after her appointment with Amara. I walked her out of the building. When we left my office I was surprised to see that Sarah wasn't at her desk. However, when we rounded the corner, I saw what became of my wandering assistant. She was sitting with Toni, her face yet again colored by a pink shade as Toni cackled at her expense. When they both saw us, Toni smiled brightly and waved, Sarah smiled shyly and nodded.

After escorting Rachel to her car and kissing her goodbye, I headed back towards my office and was brought up short by Toni. "What was that about?"

"Nothing. She just came to talk to me."

"Hmm." She leaned forward and sniffed me. "Talk huh?"

"Yep. That's it. You should ask her about it if you doubt me."

"I don't doubt you. I'm just worried about her. I hate seeing her like this."

I had to remember that even after all of Toni's flirting and machinations, she's still Rachel's little sister. Toni looks up to Rachel. Of course she would be worried. "I know. We're working on it but I don't know how things will turn out. Hopefully, they'll get better."

What she thought of my assurances, she didn't say. On my way back to my desk, I passed Sarah. She was just hanging up the phone, "Oh, Jake. Mr. Nemack wants to meet with you at 4 today. Will that be okay?"

"Sure. Tell him I'll come up to his office."

"Sure thing." She picked up the phone, ready to dial.

"Sarah. Wait."

She put the phone back on the cradle. "Yes?"

"Who all has keys to my office?"

"W-w-who what now?" Her face turned red.

"Keys to my office. Who has them?"

"Oh. Umm, the janitors, you, and I have a set. Why?"

"You have a set?"

"Y-yeah. Why? Is that not okay?"

"I'm not sure. Where were you about 10-minutes ago?"

"Where was I?"

"Yeah."

"Oh, I was talking to Toni."

"Talking to Toni? About what?"

"Umm, nothing. Just girl stuff. D-did I do something wrong, sir?"

"Do you have the keys to my office with you?"

She shook her head, "I don't carry them. You can find them in this top drawer." She pulled back the drawer and it was empty. "T-that's odd. I know they were here this morning. I'm so sorry, sir. I'll find them. Give me a minute." She started frantically opening drawers. I reached down and touched her hand. She stopped moving but the hand that I touched was shaking.

"It's okay. Really. I was just curious. You're not in any trouble." I smiled and she let out a relieved sigh.

"T-thank you, sir. Thank you."

I laughed and winked at her, "Jake. Call me Jake, Sarah."

"Of course. Sorry, Jake. Sorry."

I turned and left. Once I was alone in my office, I kicked myself. Towards the very end there I flirted. I know I did. What the hell was wrong with me? I can't flirt with my assistant. Not only is it wrong but it is way too cliché.

My meeting with my boss went swimmingly. He just wanted to sit me aside and congratulate me on prospecting to and selling our services to our new client. Apparently the board was excited and this excitement trickled down to him and he was spreading the goodwill. They offered me a stupidly large bonus and I took it. Money. Money. Money!

Now sitting across from Dr. Amara Jeffries, she sat her notebook on her lap with her glasses hanging at the opening of her shirt. Her forest green blouse was open just below her chest, showing a good portion of her chocolate cleavage. I didn't know if she was doing it on purpose or not but she was advertising her body in a way that was difficult not to react too. Her long dark legs were crossed at the knees, while a short grey skirt kept her flower hidden. Her soft and plump looking lips were upturned at the corners in a slightly mocking gesture. They glistened like two freshly moistened pillows of deliciousness. Her prominent cheekbones and intelligent eyes highlighted her perfectly proportioned face. Her natural hair was twisted and fell about her shoulders. She rocked her foot back and forth as I tried to avert my eyes from her obvious attractiveness.

"So what am I supposed to do here?" I was nervous around her. I felt like she was seeing too much of me and I didn't like that.

Her mocking smile transformed into a genuine grin. "Well, this is our first solo meeting. How about we talk about you. Tell me why you agreed to come see me."

"Oh. Well you already know about my wife's affair." She nodded. "I was angry but I felt like I had to do at least do this much...considering."

"Really? And why did you feel this way?"

"I, umm, already told you. I felt that I didn't allow our relationship to grow with the changes in our lives."

"Is that all?" She twirled her pen in her hand slowly.

"What do you mean?" I felt myself begin to sweat.

"I mean didn't you have another reason to agree to this?"

"I don't understand." Did she know? There's no way she knew. Did she?

"I think you do." Fuck!

"I-I...how did you know?"

"Know what?" Her smile was mocking again.

"How did you know about what I did?"

"And what's that?"

"I-I also had an affair."

She shrugged, "Part of my job is understanding underlying motivations. Yours was obvious when we first met. I doubt your wife has figured it out though."

"So what should I do? Should I tell her?"

"Do _you_ think you should tell her?"

"I want to, but..."

"But you think it'll be selfish of you?"

"Yeah. I'm worried that I'll hurt her for no reason."

"Well, all I can tell you is that a open and honest marriage should be the hallmark that you're striving towards."

"I-I know." I looked down at my clasped hands in disgust.

"But..." When she said that I picked my head up. "But if I'm being honest. All relationships have varying levels of deceit. It's naïve to believe that they won't. Why don't you tell me about _why_ you had your affair."

I sighed. "Okay. The night I found out about Rachel's affair a...umm _friend_ came by and I had sex with her. At the time I just wanted to get back at Rachel. I thought turnabout was fair play so when my friend came on to me, I went for it. We did mess around once more the other day but it's over now. Now my only focus is on Rachel. I don't want to cheat on her ever again."

"Hmm, so you felt justified because she cheated first?"

"I wouldn't say _justified_ , but I definitely wanted to hurt her. I thought that would be a good way."

"But how can it hurt her if she doesn't know about it?"

"Well...I don't feel that way anymore. I don't want to hurt her. I want to be with her. I love her."

"So then what are you going to do?"

"What do you think I should do?"

She chuckled and shook her head to the side. "Sorry, that's not how this works. I'm not here to make decisions for you. I'm here to help you arrive at a decision for yourself."

"Well then for now I think I'll just bury it. I don't plan on betraying her again and I don't want to hurt her either. So it makes more sense to call it a mistake and move on."

Her eyes grew piercing and she stopped smirking. She picked up her notepad and wrote something and then set it down. After doing so, she bent forward nice and slowly. As she reached for her glass of water that sat on the small table separating us, her glasses pulled at her shirt and I saw more of her breasts and the dark bra she wore. She pretended not to notice but I knew that she could feel me watching her. What she thought about it, I didn't know.

"So tell me a bit more about your relationship with your wife. I heard your history in our couple's session. Now I would like to hear it from you, without it being censored by your wife's presence."

The rest of the session was spent with me talking about our meeting and how our relationship developed from the beginning to the present. By the time that my time was up, I was spent. Walking me to the door, Amara placed her hand on my arm and leaned in. I felt her body rub up against me.

I could smell honeysuckle and vanilla on her breath. It was sweetly intoxicating. "Just between us, I think you're doing the right thing in not telling your wife."

I didn't know what to say so I just nodded. She stepped back and opened the door. Rachel was sitting in the waiting area, alone. When she saw me she stood quickly and floated towards me. She looked much better and far more relaxed than I had seen her in a long time. Apparently her spa day went well.

"Hey baby." I kissed her as she held me.

"Hey handsome!"

"I'll be here waiting for you and then we can go out and grab dinner."

She shook her head. "No, I don't want you waiting here for me. I'm sure that you've had a long day. Why not go home and I'll pick something up on my way back?" She leaned in. "Then we can go another round and eat dinner."

I've got to admit, the idea of having my wife and then having a good dinner was tempting. Agreeing, I kissed her again and then headed home.

When Rachel came home I was hungry for two things. I immediately settled for sating my primary hunger. She walked through the door with a bag of take out from an Ethiopian diner we used to frequent. Placing the bag on the kitchen countertop, I stepped up behind her.

I could sense that something was off about her. "What's wrong, babe?" Did your session not go well?"

"It went fine. Don't worry. I'm okay." I knew she was lying but if she didn't want to discuss it I didn't want to force it out of her. Besides, when she turned around her hands went straight to my hard cock. I couldn't have forced her even if I wanted to. "Mmmm. You've been waiting for me, huh?"

"Of course. I can't wait to taste you."

She clucked her tongue. "No dessert before dinner."

I dropped to my knees and pushed up her skirt. She didn't stop me as I slid the panties off of her body. "Oh come on. Please. I promise to clean my plate later." I kissed up her thighs until my lips touched her slit. I spread her lips open with my tongue and she lifted her leg and draped it over my shoulder.

She tilted her head back and moaned. "Mmmm! Such a greedy boy. Eat it, baby. Eat all the dessert you want. It's nice and sweet. Just for you."

"Mmmm. I love it!" I dove back in as she continued to writhe. When she was good and wet. I stood and picked her up. She was on the edge of the countertop with her legs spread.

"Look at me, Jake." I did. "I want you to look at me as I give myself to you. I want you to have all of me. I love you, Jake. I love you so much." There was such angst in her voice that I almost stopped. Where was all of this pain coming from? I didn't know. She held my face between her hands and spoke slowly. "Say that you love me. Tell me that you know that I love you. Tell me, Jake. Please."

"I-I love you, Rachel. I always have and always will. I know that you love me, honey. I know."

She smiled sweetly. "Thank you. Now fuck me. Fuck me up."

I slid into her like a hot knife through butter. I didn't stop until I was buried to the hilt.

"Ah fuck!" She screamed.

"Holy shit!" I yelled.

She held herself up with her arms as I lifted her ass off the countertop. She rocked as I slammed inside of her. When she grew tired I saw her arms start to quiver. I hooked both of her legs in my arms and lifted her off of the countertop. With her small hands locked securely behind my neck, I stepped back from the counter and continued to ram into her.

"Shit! Shit! Shit!" Her voice rang throughout the house but was muffled when she bit down on my shoulder.

"Goddamn! You're incredible, baby!" And it was true. Her hot and wet pussy opened up to accept all of me while touching all of my sweet spots. It was divine.

Walking over to our table, I slowly set her feet on the ground. Once she was down, I touched her shoulder and she quickly turned around. She bent over the table, so that her ass was over the edge and her chest lay flat on the tabletop. I entered her nice and slowly.

I was rewarded with a deep and long "Oooo", as I buried myself inside of her. Once I was in deep, I rocked my hips in slow, deliberate circles as she pressed herself against me.

Leaning over on top of her, I removed her long hair from her face. Kissing her shoulder, I made my way up her neck and to her ear.

I whispered, "I love you so much. You're beautiful. You're smart. You're tough and I'm so happy that you're my wife." I felt her pussy squeeze me tighter as I spoke.

Tears sprang to her eyes almost immediately. "Oh, Jake! I don't deserve someone as wonderful as you. I love you so much."

I wiped the tears away and then rested my head against hers as I moved in slow circles. Soon she started bouncing against me and I knew that she was close. My breath through her hair and her soft moans were the soundtrack to our lovemaking. After we both arrived, I rested on top of her back as I kissed her cheek and whispered of my undying love for her.

After dinner, we showered together and then went to bed early. We didn't fall asleep straight away. Instead, we stayed up and talked. Eventually, she rested her head against my shoulder as I read her one of my favorite books. It was...nice. It was perfect really. When I heard her deep breaths I knew she was asleep. Quietly, I closed the book and turned off the lamp on my nightstand. I held her until I fell asleep.

I dreamed of her that night. I dreamed of her dancing with a dress made of clouds. Her face was beautiful but her smile was sad. She looked at me as if she was saying goodbye. I tried to hold on to her but I couldn't. She dissolved the very moment that I touched her outstretched hand.

The next morning Rachel woke me with a sweet kiss on my forehead. Opening my tired eyes, I saw two beautiful brown jewels shining at me. "Good morning sleepyhead."

I stretched and then pushed myself up. "Good morning yourself." There was a buoyancy to Rachel that seemed to keep her spirits afloat. It was a welcome change after the melancholy that had been affecting her. "You're in a good mood, babe."

She sat on the edge of the bed. She was fully dressed and looked like she was heading into work. "I am in a good mood. I think I know what I should do about work but I want to go in and talk to Carla and see what she thinks."

"You're going in early to meet with your boss? I thought she told you to take a few days."

She nodded as she absentmindedly rubbed my arm. "Yeah, she did. But I need to check some things with her first."

"So what's this brilliant idea?"

She hesitated, "I...umm, well I don't want to say just yet. Not until I'm sure it'll work."

"Hmm." Suspicious much? Still, if she was in such a positive state, I didn't want to ruin it by micromanaging her. "Okay. Well good luck, babe. I'm going to take a shower. Will you be here when I get out?"

"N-no. I'm going to be leaving shortly. Jake?"

"Yeah, honey?"

"I-I love you. You know that right?"

I smiled. "Of course I know that. I love you, too." I kissed her plump lips.

"I just, umm, I just wanted to make sure that you know that I love you. I love you like a lot."

I laughed. "I know, love. I know."

True to her word, by the time I got out of the shower she was gone.

"So how's my big sis doing?" Toni was sitting against Sarah's desk when I came back from lunch. I hadn't seen her all day but that was fine. She had two presentations in the morning so I didn't plan on seeing her until later.

When she saw me approach, my assistant, Sarah, stood. "Sir...err...Jake! I'm sorry. Jake, you have three messages." She handed me a few slips of paper as I smiled kindly.

"Thanks, Sarah." She smiled brightly when I thanked her. I was reminded of yesterday when I flirted with her. I kicked myself again. Toni looked between us and smirked, but what she thought of Sarah's reaction to me, she didn't say.

I nodded for Toni to follow me and she did. "Rachel's doing better. I think."

"You think?" She cocked her hip as she leveled her eyes at me.

"Yeah. I'm not a mind reader."

"No. You're just her _husband_."

I rolled my eyes. "That doesn't mean that I know everything that's going on inside of her head. I would've figured that was obvious when she ran around on me with that prick."

"Yeah. I guess. So...are you still mad about that?"

I almost choked. "Of course I'm still pissed! But what can I do? It's not like I'm innocent either. Besides, we're making it work."

"And how's that going?"

"It's going. You know, it's not like everything is perfect but that's not the point. We're doing better together."

"Well ain't that just peachy?" She was irritated but I didn't know exactly what it was that was really bothering her. I wanted to believe it was because she still had feelings for me but there seemed to be more than that. But I decided it was better not to dig. You should never ask a question when you really didn't want to know the answer.

Knock! Knock!

Saved by the knock. Sarah pushed the door open. "Sorry, Jake. But there're a few things we need to go over before tonight's team meeting."

"It's fine, Sarah. Come on in. Toni and I were about finished anyway."

She looked at Toni and she smiled brightly at Sarah. "No problem, babe. He's all yours." When she winked, Sarah blushed, much to Toni's merriment. When she was at the door, she turned. Her eyes looked at once animated and mischievous. "Oh that reminds me! What time is everyone coming over on Saturday?"

I looked from Toni to Sarah. She didn't look anymore knowledgeable than I was as to what Toni was referring to. "Excuse me?"

She leaned against the door. "The pool party! Didn't Rachel tell you? She suggested that we have a pool party at your house on Saturday to celebrate. She thought it would be good to get your new team to come by so she can schmooze them and make you look good."

"Huh? Rachel did? When?"

"The other day when we went out for drinks. She suggested it. She didn't tell you?"

"N-no. No she didn't say anything. Besides..." I looked at Sarah. She was standing there staring at Toni with her hazel eyes wide and her mouth slightly open. "I-I don't think that's really appropriate, Toni."

She stalked towards the desk and came to a stop next to Sarah. She wrapped her arm around the other woman's shoulder. "What's inappropriate about it? It's a weekend pool party. We're not going to be doing drugs and crap. Just some work buddies taking a little time to relax." She glanced at Sarah while pulling her firmly against her body. "Right, Sarah? You'd like a little time to get to _know_ our fearless leader right?"

Sarah stammered. "I-I-I-uh...huh?"

"Toni don't tease her." I plopped down in my chair and sighed. I guess if Rachel is okay with it then there shouldn't be any issues. Besides, with Rachel there I knew that there wouldn't be a chance of any impropriety. But speaking of impropriety...I had to admit that the idea of seeing Toni in a two-piece was more than a little appetizing. Then I looked at Sarah. Her smaller frame was pressed tightly against Toni but in her overflowing blouse I couldn't really get a good read on her figure. But I was almost positive that if given a chance, she would look pretty damn fabulous in a bathing suit too. Sighing, I gave in. "Fine. You set it up, Toni. Just let me know what I need to buy."

She smiled triumphantly. "Yay! I love party planning!" She turned to Sarah and smiled brightly. "We're going to have to go shopping!"

Sarah looked befuddled. "Huh?"

"You're his assistant. You're going to have to help me plan this thing. Lets get started now!" Toni started to pull Sarah out of the office while Sarah looked positively terrified. I thought it was best to rescue my unwillingly wayward assistant.

"Toni?" She stopped when she heard my voice.

"Yeah?"

"Sarah and I still have some stuff to do. Besides, it's Tuesday. There's still a lot of time. How about you actually get to work? You know...the stuff that we actually pay you to do."

Exasperated, she gave in. "Ugh! Fine." She looked at Sarah once more. "But you and me are going out on Thursday. Be ready." Then she blew out of my office, leaving a vacuum and two very confused people behind.

Sarah looked at me with fear dancing openly in her eyes. "W-was that a threat or a promise?"

I smiled and knew that Sarah had just attracted a barracuda. There was nothing I could do to save her. "Both. Good luck."

Work went great. I was flying high so I stopped and picked up a dozen roses for Rachel. I was ready to sweep her off her feet both figuratively and literally. But when I walked in the door those lofty feelings fled and I harshly crashed to the ground. A large suitcase was packed and sitting by the front door. Flashbacks to her leaving a couple of weeks ago came rushing back to my mind as panic quickly set in.

"Rachel!" I bellowed. "Rachel!"

Seconds later she came around he corner. She was dressed in comfortable shorts and a linen V-neck. She looked like she had just swallowed something sickening. Still, when I saw her my heart slowed it's pace from a wild samba to a slow waltz.

"Jake."

I sat the roses on the table and sped towards her. "What's with the luggage, Rach? What's going on?"

She swallowed loudly. "Jake. M-maybe we should sit down. We need to talk."

Throughout the history of relationships, when said by a woman to a man, those four words have never been followed up with anything good. I steeled myself and fell onto the couch.

"What's going on? Are you leaving me?"

She placed her hand atop mine. "Jake. I love you. You know that but..."

I heard a rushing sound in my ears. I was hyperventilating. The room started spinning. Not again. She can't do this to me. Not again. As I fell into the abyss I felt two cold hands on the side of my face. There were two chocolate-colored eyes that looked at me with such an overflowing amount of love that the sheer contradiction of her affections and her actions left my mind reeling.

"R-Rachel?" My voice was broken.

"I'm here, Jake. I'm here."

I glanced towards the luggage and then back at her. "But you're leaving."

She nodded. "It's not forever."

Suddenly I was filled with rage. I exploded from the couch, forcing her to fall back in response. "Not forever? What the fuck? What the hell is happening? Why are your bags packed? What's going on?"

She held her hand out to me and hesitated at the last second. She stopped short of touching me. "Jake. I'm not okay." Her softly spoken words grabbed my attention. Her voice was filled with grief and hurt and it called to me in a way that momentarily allowed me to forget my own fear. It was as if I was a balloon filled with anger and pain and a knife was suddenly jammed into me. All the pain and anger deflated and left only a tiny man trying to figure out what was going on with his marriage.

"B-but you're leaving. You're _leaving_." I said it a second time for emphasis. I couldn't help the way my words caught in my throat or the way I choked on the words.

Her eyes were moist and wary but she still moved closer. "I have to go, Jake. I... _we_ need space."

"I don't need space! I need you!"

"Jake, please. I don't want to go, but look at me. I'm two steps away from imploding. Seeing what I made you do in that hotel room was too much for me."

"It wasn't you, babe. It was him. He was the one that hit you."

She shook her head sadly. "No. It was all me. If I hadn't been such a fool and if I had never started a relationship with him in the first place this would've never happened. I blame myself for what happened and no one else."

"So then why are you leaving?"

"Well..." She seemed to think about her words before she spit them out. "I talked to Dr. Jefferies about it and she suggested that maybe some distance would help."

"A-Amara did? When?"

"Yesterday. At our session."

"That's such bullshit!"

"Jake, please. Try to understand. I know you're strong, honey. You're the strongest person I've ever known. But I'm not. I'm weak and I'm scared and I'm scarred. I keep seeing it every time I close my eyes and when I do I can't help but blame myself. I need to heal and to do that I need just a little bit of space."

"Space?"

She nodded. "Yeah. I'm not leaving you. We're just...sep...sep...separating for a while."

My heart fell into the pit of my stomach when I heard the word separating. Wasn't that the first step right before divorce? "Rachel...no. No!"

"Jake, please. I can't, baby. I love you so much but I'm not me. Look at me! Is this the woman that you know? Is this the woman that you married?"

I wrapped her in my arms and pulled her to me. "You are the woman that I love."

She pressed her face to my chest. "I know. I love you too. I love you so much that it kills me that I hurt you. I know this isn't fair to you and I'm sorry. But I can't be what you need me to be if I stay. I need to get away...for a time. I want to be me again not this shadow."

I knew she was right. She wasn't doing well. We all saw it. But I didn't want to let her leave. I felt that if she did then I would never see her again. I knew that was me being both selfish and scared but I didn't care. I wanted my wife. I _needed_ my wife.

But what did she need?

I closed my eyes and tilted my head back. I wanted to scream but I didn't. I wanted to be angry but I couldn't. I had to be strong. She needed me to be strong now more than ever. One of the issues that led us to this point was that I didn't give her what she needed from me emotionally. I wouldn't make the same mistake again. If I'm being honest it wasn't just my feelings that were hurt. I mean sure, I thought things were going well. But I had to remind myself that it has only been a couple of weeks. How impactful could this small spat of success be? No. It wasn't just my feelings that were hurt by her decision to leave. My pride was wounded too. I fought for her and for us, but none of that seemed to matter. I didn't want to let her go. But that was still my pride talking. I had to learn from our past. I had to use the wisdom I've accumulated.

I sighed. Speaking half to myself, I grumbled, "Pride without wisdom makes a Fool."

Rachel tilted her head, her eyes puzzled, "What's that, honey?"

"How long?" My voice was gruff.

"I don't know. I hope not long but I really don't know."

"Where are you going?"

I felt her hesitate. "W-well see that's the thing. There's a temporary opening for a service manager in one of our new branches on the east coast. I'm going to transfer out there and work for a few weeks. Maybe a month."

"The east coast!"

"Y-yeah."

I was prepared for her to grab an apartment across town or shack up with Toni, but not this. She was going to be hundreds of miles away.

"And you're leaving tonight?"

"I have to. The opening is temporary and I start Thursday."

"Why didn't you talk to me about this beforehand?"

"I was afraid you would say no."

"Of course I would say no! I don't want you to be that far away."

"I know. I'm sorry, Jake. I know it doesn't seem like it right now but I'm really doing this because I love you. I want to be the wife that you deserve. I don't want to feel like this anymore."

There was passion and loss in her eyes. I knew she was telling the truth but that didn't make it any easier to deal with.

"When are you flying out?"

"I have to be at the airport in an hour."

"That's not a lot of time."

"No. No it isn't."

We spent the next 30 minutes on the couch and she gave me more details. Her employer had set her up in a long-term stay hotel. Once she landed, she would give me all of the contact details. The temporary job was also a promotion of sorts. If it worked out, she would be managing her own team. We said our goodbyes in our home. No one likes long goodbyes in an airport terminal. Then I drove her to the airport and waved goodbye to her through the security checkpoint. I watched her stroll away with my heart in her suitcase. She stopped and cast one final look at me. In that moment a part of me felt a finality that was unsettling. Before I broke down in the airport surrounded by strangers, I marched to my car and piloted my vehicle home.

The next day I was a virtual zombie. Even Sarah mentioned my lack of motivation. "Sorry, Sarah. Just some marriage stuff."

"O-oh! I'm sorry, Jake." She nervously twirled the engagement ring on her ring finger.

"So when's the big date?"

She saw me looking at her ring and suddenly stopped touching it. "Oh! We haven't decided a date yet. I want it to be next Spring though."

"I see. Well, good luck."

"T-thanks, Jake."

Toni appeared shortly after I left Sarah's desk. She pulled me into the copy room. Her eyes were wild. "Dude! What the hell did you do to my sister?"

"What are you talking about Toni?"

"Why the fuck did Rachel just text me and tell me that she was out East someplace?"

I leaned back against the copier. "As if I needed another reminder."

"What the hell happened?"

I sighed. "She left yesterday." She wouldn't let me leave until I told her everything that I knew. There wasn't much but she stood still while she absorbed the new information.

Once I was done she nodded knowingly. "Well, I'd say you made the right decision. She was cracking something fierce. It was either this or you guys were doomed."

"So you think it was a good idea to take some space?"

"Yeah. I think it was for the best. That girl needs it. Besides...no. Never mind. Just make sure that you don't screw things up with her when she comes back. No more fighting!"

"Yes ma'am."

Later in the day I was scheduled to meet with Amara. But since my wife was a time zone away, I decided to cancel my appointment and instead went to a bar. I was knee deep in a mind numbing brandy when I felt a light touch on my shoulder.

Turning my head, my eyes fell on an ebony goddess in a smart skirt, tight curls and beckoning cleavage. "A-Amara?" I blinked twice but she didn't disappear.

Her sultry voice and sardonic smile was tempting. Of course, I was sure that that was what she was going for. "Hello Jake. May I have a seat?"

I nodded and then got the bartender's attention. "Two more please." Once she was settled, I turned to her. "How did you find me?"

She shrugged. "It wasn't hard to figure out what you would be doing. Your wife left yesterday and you told me that this was one of your favorite bars. It was easy to put two and two together."

"Wait. How did you know that Rachel left?"

"She called to cancel our next few sessions. She told me the details then. So..." she leaned in and placed a not-so-subtle hand on my upper thigh. "...How are you doing?"

"You should know, right? You're the shrink."

We got our drinks and she sipped her dark liquor without batting an eyelash. "I'm the shrink."

We were silent for a few minutes. I knew she was waiting on me to explode, just as she knew that I couldn't help myself. "Why the hell did you tell her that we needed space?"

She took another sip of her drink as her other hand remained on my thigh. "Because it was the best thing for the both of you."

"I didn't want her to leave."

Her eyes were piercing. "But you didn't want her to stay."

"Of course I did."

She tilted a single eyebrow. "Then why did you sleep with someone else?"

I stammered. "I-I that is...that was before! I don't have those feelings anymore."

"Really?" She smiled suspiciously.

I replied, "Really", but that reply was lessened by the fact that I couldn't keep my eyes from wandering to her exposed cleavage.

She leaned closer and whispered, "Then why haven't you tried to remove my hand from your crotch?" As her brandy-flavored breath tickled my ear, her small hand snuck in and felt my growing bulge. She gasped when she felt my hardening member against her hand.

I wanted to stop her but I didn't. I didn't and I had no idea why. I looked into her eyes and saw myself falling into bed with her, both of our brown bodies tangling in the sheets as we sweated and humped ourselves into oblivion.

Just then a loud and rough laughter erupted from across the bar, which grabbed everyone's attention. In that moment, Amara removed her hand and the spell was broken.

By that point I had come back to my senses. Clearing my throat, I stood and placed enough money on the bar to cover our drinks and leave a generous tip for the bartender.

Neither of us spoke on what almost happened. Instead, she reached for my arm, her voice was soft but her eyes were imploring—not in a sexual way but in a sincere way. "Don't cancel next week. Come see me on Monday. I still think there are ways that I can help."

Meeting her eye for a moment, I nodded and then I turned and left.

The rest of the week went by with the slow deliberateness of a week of torturous events. The only bright part was that Rachel remained in contact. Not as much as I would like but there were a lot of selfies with a lot of heart emojis. I guess that would have to do for now.

Friday evening Toni came up to me with a list of receipts. Apparently, this little party of hers was going to cost me a modest penny. To compensate, Toni and Sarah promised to come over early to help clean and set up.

As promised, bright and early on Saturday morning I heard Toni's voice in the living room. I had finished weight training and was only in a ribbed T-shirt and shorts. I headed downstairs and what I saw nearly floored me.

Coming around the corner, I started talking before I was in the room. "Wow Toni. You weren't kidding when you said you'd be here early...!"

My living room was piled with a scattering of boxes overflowing with party decorations, food and liquor. But that wasn't the shocking thing.

I had to do a double take. Normally, she wore loose fitting clothes. They were always modest and she never flaunted her body. I couldn't say the same thing about her right then and there. Sarah was bent over at the waist as a super tiny pair of jean shorts rode up her legs and exposed a good chunk of her surprisingly luscious behind. She heard me and stood up. Her front was even more arousing than her back. She had a tight green halter-top that barely covered the bottom of her full breasts. As she turned I saw each and every muscle in her abs flex. I was flabbergasted. Where the fuck has she been hiding this physique?

She smiled sweetly as she looked me up and down. I felt naked in front of her. Of course, I was nearly sweating through my shirt. Slowly, she stepped towards me. Placing one hand on my chest and the other on my arm, she stood on her toes and kissed my cheek. When she moved back her face was flushed. "Good morning, Jake."

"Good morning, Sarah."

We stared at each other in silence. Right when it was getting a bit unbearable, Toni walked in with a couple of boxes in her arms. I moved forward and took them both from her.

"Thanks, bro!" She kissed me too...but she kissed my lips not my cheek. While it was a quick peck, I still looked at Sarah to gauge her reaction. Her hazel eyes were devoid of any noticeable shock. Maybe she didn't think anything of it. That was good. I didn't need the rumors back at work.

"No problem. Are there more boxes?"

"Nope. This is it." She gave me a once over. "You look like you just finished working out. If you want you can go take a shower. I'm starving anyway so I'm going to make some food before I get started."

Again, I glanced at Sarah. "A-are you sure?"

Toni laughed and playfully slapped my behind. "Yeah. Get going. I'll make enough for three."

Taking my cue from Toni, I headed upstairs. I was 10 minutes into my shower when I looked through the partially frosted glass and saw an eye watching me. I would know that eye anywhere. I was intimate before that eye. That eye watched me as I had sex with my wife a few days ago. But now that eye was in my house. It could only be one person. My suspicions had been forgotten with the mess that this week had become but now it came roaring back. I saw the eye see me see it and it didn't waver. If anything I felt a bit of excitement radiate from it. But when I turned to turn the shower off, the eye had disappeared from view. The owner of that eye had vacated before I could get a full look at her face. But that was fine. There was only one thing I needed to do to confirm my suspicions.

After getting dressed I headed for the kitchen. Once I was downstairs, I looked around the corner, Sarah was nowhere in sight. I found Toni in the kitchen mixing pancake batter.

"Hey sexy!" She kissed me again. This time it was much deeper and her tongue breached my weak defenses.

"Hey yourself." I looked around. "Where's Sarah?"

Toni shrugged, "Oh, she's out back. She said she wanted to get a peek at the pool but I think she just wanted some fresh air."

I walked towards the patio door. "Is that so?" Sure enough there she was, standing at the edge of the pool, one hand on her taunt stomach and the other bunching her hair atop her head. She looked like she was overheating but since I knew my thermostat was set to 68º; she wasn't overheating because it was too hot in here. No, that heat was coming from within.

As if she could hear my thoughts, Toni asked, "So what do you think?"

"Hmm?" I turned towards her and she was watching me. "What do you mean?"

"Sarah. She's pretty hot isn't she?"

"Y-yeah. She's cute."

She rolled her eyes. "I'm not your wife or girlfriend, Jacob. You can be honest with me. Let me tell you, when I picked her up this morning and she came out of her apartment in that get up, I just about died. I mean holy fuck! How does such a quiet and mousy girl have a body like that? Fuck!"

I laughed. I walked up to Toni and gave her a big hug. "Don't worry, Toni. I doubt your status as the office hottie is going to be overshadowed by my assistant."

She chuckled, "Oh shut up!"

I watched as Toni pulled together a breakfast of blueberry pancakes and sausage. "So now that my sister is gone, do you think you've got a free pass?"

"Free pass?"

"Come on. You know what I mean."

"Umm, I don't know. We didn't talk about it."

"Well then what do you think?"

"I don't think she's out east getting her rocks off. I doubt she'd expect me to either."

"Yeah, but she did say you guys were separated, right?"

"Yeah. I guess."

"So it sounds to me like she's given you a free pass while she goes and 'finds herself'."

"You think so?"

"I think so. You should take advantage of this opportunity." She turned to me and pulled her shirt down so that I could see her breasts. I felt my cock throb within moments.

"Maybe I will." It was hard to deny Toni anything, let alone my interest when my attraction for her was so damn obvious. Besides, I had lot of time to think after running into Amara in the bar. The truth is that maybe I was seeing this separation as more of a chance at freedom and less of a punishment for protecting my wife. As I was contemplating my next moves, she walked towards me and climbed on my lap. She pressed her breasts to my face as she started to grind against my hard member.

"You have _no_ idea just how bad I've been missing you. I've been thinking about you everyday. I touch myself at night and fantasize about you. The few guys I've been with haven't come close to you. I tried imagining that it was you when I was with them but it made it even worse. I need you. If I don't have you soon I'm going to explode."

She started moving harder and harder against me as her breath got rougher. I knew this was getting her excited. I could taste her excitement.

"Promise me." Her voice was tortured.

"What?"

"Promise me."

"Promise you what?"

"Promise me that you're going to give it to me today. If you don't I'm not going to stop humping you. I don't care who catches us."

I was at my wits end. "I promise. I promise."

Sighing, she climbed off of me. I saw her smirk as she turned. She loved getting her way and that just showed it.

She was standing over the stove as I tried to stuff my hard cock back into my shorts.

"Oh by the way, I didn't just bring Sarah because she's your assistant."

"Yeah, I figured."

"I think she has a thing for you."

Considering the fact that she's been caught watching me twice now, I'd say that Toni's intuition was spot on. "Yeah? I don't know."

"God you're so dim sometimes!" I just smiled. "Trust me. That girl likes you. I'd bet my car on it."

"Hmm."

"So...I was thinking. There's something that I'd like to try and I think it'll be best if it's with you."

"Yeah? What's that?"

"Promise not to laugh?"

"Promise."

She took a deep breath and then glanced at me. "I want to try a threesome. I want it to be with you and her."

I have to admit the idea of sexing up both of these goddesses was a tantalizing idea. "Do you think she'll go for it?"

"I don't know. Maybe."

Just then, the patio door opened and the subject of our interest came floating in. There was something different about her. Something deeper. It was as if a veil had been pushed aside and her shy exterior was forgotten...or suppressed.

She saw us around the island and she came over. Pulling out a chair next to me, she sat down. I watched her move and knew from her body language that she noticed my attention.

When she looked at me, there wasn't a trace of that frightened and mousy persona she employs at work. Her eyes held the same look that I saw outside of my office and outside of the shower. There was risk and wanting in those eyes. Her mask had been pulled aside and she looked much more relaxed because of it. When she noticed me studying her she smiled. It was an inviting expression. I smiled in return as we meaningfully locked eyes.

Oblivious to the sparks between us, Toni sat down a large plate of pancakes and sausages. "I'm glad you came in when you did. Breakfast is ready."

Without moving her eyes away from mine and with the smile still on her face, Sarah spoke, "Great. I'm so incredibly hungry." Her smile grew deeper.

I smiled in return. Something told me this pool party was going to be a hot one.

#######

End

With Rachel now M.I.A, how will Jake deal with two gorgeous women each trying to have their way with him? For that matter, how will he handle the obvious attraction between his therapist and himself? Check back for part four—A Gentleman's Code.

T.L.

To help direct future novellas, please rate and comment on the story that you just read.

About the author:

Welcome! I enjoy writing stories that appeal to me, in hopes that they will appeal to you, too. Beyond writing, I enjoy spending time with my family and I hope to travel around the world one day. I am a self-published author and the process can be grueling at times. I work hard to make sure that I am putting the best product I can in front of you. Despite this, I love doing it. I love my readers and I hope to speak to each and every one of you someday.

Many blessings to you all.

T.L.

My Website!!!

Other Stories:

Inseparable Family VOL: 1-4

Caitlyn was abandoned by her mother and left in the care of her stepfather, Daniel Sharp. Being a good man, he raised Caitlyn like she was his own. On the eve of her departure to college Caitlyn's childhood crush for the handsome Daniel Sharp takes an unexpected turn-whether it be for better or worse.

This 4-volume set explores the developing and taboo relationship between Caitlyn and Daniel as well as the introduction of characters meant to challenge them both as they learn what they truly mean to each other.

The main character and two supporting characters reemerge within the Dance with the Devil series as well as the Workplace Tryst series.

Workplace Tryst VOL: 1-2

Brian Chambley hates his job. He really, really hates his job. The only thing that makes it bearable is his sexy friend and coworker, Megan Parks. Brian lusts after and chases after her. The only problem is--she's married. Brian seeks a way to get everything he wants from her while still retaining his honor and not forcing her to break her marital vows. Is there a way to get what he wants while still remaining a good man?

Volume 3 of this story set will be coming soon.

The next story will focus on the developing relationship between Brian and Megan and will feature characters from Dance with the Devil and Inseparable Family.

Dance with the Devil VOL: 1-6

Chase King wants only one thing--well one person. Samantha Knox. His boss has been the center of his fantasies for years. Unfortunately, Mindy Keller, the office demon has other plans. Finding a way to blackmail Chase she manipulates and controls him. Chase must find a way to break Mindy's control over him and also win the affections of the woman he cares for most. But can he do it when the cards are stacked against him?

Part 2 of this series will be coming soon. Follow along while Chase finds a way to deal with the little devils that seem hell-bent on using him as a pawn.

Characters from Workplace Tryst, Inseparable Family and my full-length novel, **Hearts that Bleed** , will gather within this collection.

You Belong to Me

The womanizing, Seji Nakamura, has only one thing on his mind, how to get women in bed. When his eyes land on the new-to-town, Carla Greene, he thought he had an easy notch to add on his belt of conquest. But someone like Seji would not be satisfied with just one woman, after catching him in the act with another woman, a married woman in fact, Carla devises a scheme to get a little pay back. Seji is in for a rude awakening when his foul ways pushes Carla too far.

Volume 2-Coming Soon!

A Gentleman's Curse:

The Tainted Series

Jacob loves his wife. She's his best friend and he'd do anything for her. Unfortunately, things between them have fizzled. He wholeheartedly believes that you should treat your wife like a queen so that's what he does to try to rekindle their connection. But he will soon find out that all of his efforts have been for naught. How will he react when he finds that his gentlemanly ways were the precise reasons why his wife betrayed him? Will this nice guy finish last or will his wife find out the hard way that you don't cross a gentleman?

A Gentleman's Folly:

The Tainted Series

This story is a follow-up to A Gentleman's Curse. Jacob is hurt and angry when he finds out that his wife, Rachel, had an affair. Upon realizing that the secret was out, Rachel flies home in an effort to salvage her dissolving marriage. The only problem is that Jacob has changed. He's no longer the soft love-struck person he was days before. This change was caused by the realization that his wife was having an affair and a little cheating on his own. Because of their shared infidelity he struggles to decide if the marriage is even worth saving. Despite his reluctance to stay with her, Rachel pulls out all the stops to try to win back his affection. It might be too little too late, but only time...and a little therapy will tell.

The Reluctant Scoundrel

The Tainted Series

Lance loves his wife. He would do anything for her. Jump in front of a train. Step in front of a bullet. Go head-to-head with a lion. Lance would do it all. However, the emotional scars of her youth continue to plague her as an adult. Her worse vice is jealousy. Nevertheless, Lance would put up with any jealousy-related outburst for her. Unfortunately, one person has been plotting against the couple and will soon make her move. Despite his love for his wife and, in part, because of his love, Lance will be forced to make a life altering decision. He finds himself being asked to make an impossible decision between two choices. Regardless of the choice he makes his marriage will not remain unscathed.

The Reluctant Fool:

The Tainted Series

Picking up 2 months after, The Reluctant Scoundrel, Lance is still riddled with guilt over being coerced into sleeping with Jessa, his sister-in-law. In the time since their visit, Lance and Jen have fallen back into their routine. However, one dark cloud looms—Jessa. She's coming for a visit of her own and will be staying with them for 2-weeks. Lance knows the truth and fears what she's planning but keeps it a secret from his wife, Jen, in order to avoid spilling too much about what happened. Jessa has plans upon plans that she's ready to use in order to exact her revenge on her little sister. Her number one tool—Lance. She plans to use him for her own pleasure and as a way to crush her sister. Despite all of his efforts, Lance may be outmatched.

