

Smashwords Edition License Notes

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. Please do not share it online. These activities really hurt Yaoi Press and our creators. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each person you share it with. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then you should return to Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. We need your support, and thank you for respecting the author's work.

A God to Wed Her

by

Yamila Abraham

Cover by Archie the Redcat, Edited by Michelle Henson

Copyright © 2014 Yamila Abraham. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form, or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise) without the prior written permission of both the copyright owner and the above publisher of this book.

PLEASE READ! This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. Please do not share it online or distribute it to others. **These activities really hurt me!**

***

I stood at the base of the mountain and used one hand to shade my eyes from the sun. My head had to crane back to take in the god Exinious' fortress. It didn't matter that the black thing had been in the background of my village all my life. It still put a knot in my stomach to look at it. The sharp dark towers grew upwards from the mountain's peaks, forming inky capillaries that stained the sky.

"You should wear something prettier," Senator Carrus said behind me.

I closed my eyes and tried not to lose my temper. What I'd worn was simply my deep blue smock, emblazoned with the symbols for health, renewal, fertility, and medicine. A dense fabric belt tied snugly around my waist and a hooded wool cape hung off my shoulders. I felt just as entitled to my healer's uniform as the senators did to their long brown tunics.

"I have to climb a mountain, you realize," I said.

"You also have to beseech the god that lives there," Carrus said. He was barrel-chested with a full white beard. "His last wife from the village died six years ago. He may be ready for another. A pretty package might go a long way towards winning the lonely god's aid."

The suggestion made me cringe. "I'm not volunteering to be his latest sacrifice."

Carrus put his gnarled hand on my shoulder. "Oh, but my dear—"

I jerked away from him like his hand was a hot coal. He gave Senator Diones an amused expression while I glared at him. I've told the old bastard before not to touch me.

There was no need for Senators Carrus and Diones to escort me to the mountain. Their page had called me to the meeting house at sunrise to demand an explanation for why I hadn't cured the sixteen villagers dying under my care. My patients all had the same disease, the same weeping red boils and fever.

I'd built an astonishing reputation for healing both people and animals. Our leaders claimed my practice was one of the benefits of their regime. As a woman both fatherless and unwed I'd felt too vulnerable to refute this. But then, being the darling of my senators stopped the accusations of witchcraft made against me from ever gaining a foothold.

My obligation to them was never spoken, but they had no trouble presuming it at the morning hearing. Why were those sixteen people, one of whom the niece of Senator Rizee, getting worse by the day? I was making them look bad. I was betraying all the faith they had put in me.

There was a part of me, a small part since their judging eyes and loud voices made me cower, that wanted to spit at them. The bigger part of me was focused on my patients. Why couldn't I cure those sixteen? I don't know.

I don't know.

My tinctures should cure anything. Everything. They always do. Even if I don't understand it, I can cure it. That's the gift I was given. Of course, I'd never admit I used magic to our leaders. Who knows when I'll fall out of favor and have it used against me? I'd answered the only way I could. I'd claimed the god Exinious had cursed us and someone had to go to his fortress and find out why.

"Splendid idea," they'd said. "You should head out right away."

A nauseating terror had made me feel faint. I was in a trance as Carrus and Diones guided me out here. Once I saw that hideous fortress my quest felt inescapable.

"Ashla," Senator Diones said.

I looked at him with the scowl that was meant for Carrus. The younger and infinitely more somber Diones didn't deserve my anger. He was one of the very few men I found tolerable in the village.

"If you don't start climbing now it will be dark before you reach the fortress."

I drew in a deep breath and then let it out with a slump of my shoulders. He was right. I was being a fool to let Carrus rile me. I thought of my poor patients. They suffered in their illness and not even my powerful potions could ease their pain. I'd let this drag on long enough. Something drastic had to be done. Of course, the Senate foisted the responsibility onto me to do it.

I started up the first slope, letting more dejecting thoughts bombard me. Exinious was notorious for ignoring our pleas for help. I'd heard stories that made my face feel like it had been slapped. He'd told my maternal great grandfather that we were supposed to be his amusement, but had turned out boring and annoying just like the other society he'd made before us who'd died off.

I soldiered on despite the risk of humiliation. My treatment should have cured those people. There's magic in my bottles, just as real as Exinious' magic. This disease was unnatural. Even if he was unwilling to render aid, couldn't he at least tell me what this abomination was?

The shriek of a bird interrupted my doldrums. The sound had been loud enough to reverberate through my skin. I froze while balancing my outstretched hands and feet on the boulder in front of me. The shadow of a giant bird swallowed my entire form. It blotted out the sun for far too long as it passed over me. My heart began to race with terror.

The monster hawk. I remembered a solitary lesson where it was mentioned in school. I reassured myself that if it ate people there would have been more focus on it. While I was thinking this, however, I remained frozen, too terrified to look up.

The thing shrieked again and I realized it was getting closer. Now I huddled down against the boulder and squeezed my eyes closed.

"Please, Exinious," I whispered, "don't kill me. They need me...I know you don't care, but they need me."

I heard a thump and lifted my trembling head slowly to look. On the terrace above me was a tall black cage shaped like a cylinder. There was a seat inside covered in glimmering red fabric. The cage door was open.

I saw the shadow of the giant bird perched on top of the cage. It took every ounce of courage I had to lift my gaze to it. The shiny blue-black feathers were more like a raven's than a hawk's. The red glowing eyes, however, weren't from any bird I'd ever seen. The massive thing was glaring at me. I felt like my heart was beating backwards for a moment. Through my terror I managed to see that the beast was perched on a large metal loop attached to the cage.

So...he's come to fetch me? I couldn't imagine the implications, but I had to take this as a good sign. The only trouble was my paralyzing fear. If I could wield my limbs the only direction I wanted to go was back down, and as fast as I could manage. No one had prepared me for giant monster birds.

I felt like crying, but, as in all facets of my life, I strove to hold back my tears. It was instinctive by now: never cry, never raise your voice, don't ever let someone accuse you of being weak. I suffered the villagers' endless scrutiny as an unwed woman. Even the senators questioned why I was unmarried. "If you don't want children, there are plenty of older widowers who'd have you," Carrus, a widower himself, had said. My status as healer was as much an affront to our society as it was an asset. Oh, how they wished I'd had a father to order me to marry one of them.

My thoughts were rambling. I choose to think of anything except what I had to do.

I started climbing before I could talk myself out of it. I stood on the terrace and peered into the cage. The strange fabric of the cushioned seat had to be from Exinious. I hugged my arms around myself and went in. I sat and latched the cage door closed.

The demon bird spread its massive wings and barraged me with huge gusts of wind as it took off. When the cage lifted I felt like my stomach stayed behind. I had to clutch the black bars on either side of me with white-knuckled fists and squeeze my eyes closed. I peeked a few times and regretted it. The height gave me vertigo. I had the horrifying vision of the bottom falling out of the cage and me dropping with it. Then I peeked just as we descended past the wall of the fortress. The bird glided down at a dizzying speed that made the cage sway. I curled down against my knees.

I felt a big bump, and then it was still. My body unfolded to behold a courtyard without vegetation. Where there might have been grass was instead gray stone. There were black tree skeletons bordered by circles of brick. The same dark brick created a round table with several benches. Who would ever want to sit out here? The dreariness was amplified by a gray mist clinging to the ground in scattered places. It was cold and my skin grew clammy.

The cage door let out a hideous creak when I opened it. I cringed at the loud noise. My sense of unease was so great I thought I'd anger the bird, or perhaps wake up some other monster living here.

I clutched my cape tightly around me and went down the stone path leading to the fortress' dark arcade. As I headed toward it a figure emerged. I froze.

The god Exinious now walked toward me.

I'd given no thought to actually meeting him. He was so prevalent in our society I felt like I already knew him. Our creator. The ambivalent one. The passive watcher. The one who'd abandoned us. Neither good nor evil. A character in our history books. The subject of poems and songs. Occasionally worshipped, despite never showing any interest in our adulation. Often reviled for how little he cared for us.

He'd become a cartoon to me. Yet now, in his presence, I felt overcome.

I had no doubt he was our god. His magical aura made my breath catch. He was too powerful to behold, but I couldn't pull my gaze from him. Exinious had the bearing of a man, but taller and more densely muscled than any I'd known from the village. Once I overcame his blinding presence I saw a striking man—a handsome man. His skin was white as chalk but was framed with pleasing dark hair in a flattering enigmatic style. He wore a gray waistcoat with large silver buttons. Over this was an impressively long black jacket, finer than anything our senators had. His tight breeches were brown and of a clinging fabric. They dove into long black boots with rows of silver buckles. His visage would have been entirely pleasing if not for his eyes. I'd never seen eyes so chillingly cruel. I felt naked in his gaze. Unworthy.

"You don't kneel?" Exinious said once he stood before me.

My lips parted in bewilderment. I'd been so rapt I had to pause to decipher the words in my mind. Then I lowered with a flourish of my cape. I dropped to my knees in front of him, but went no lower. I looked up at him to see if this was what he wanted.

Exinious fixed those cruel eyes on me with a slight dip of his brow. "I didn't say you had to kneel. I only asked why you didn't. Most people do." He gestured with three fingers for me to rise.

I obeyed clumsily.

"You arrived faster than expected."

"You...were expecting me?"

He turned to lead me back toward the arcade. "I sent my bird for you."

"Oh. Yes, of course."

"It seems you climbed into the cage with little hesitation. You're bold." He glanced back at me. "But I already knew that."

I blinked a few times. Now was when I should have asserted myself and my mission. 'Five days ago people started coming down with a strange illness in the village,' I should have said. 'Do you know anything about it?'

But no. I clutched my cape close to my body and cowered in the trail of his aura. My spit felt too thick in my mouth to talk through.

"You may stay a few days," Exinious said.

I followed him through the arcade, which was covered in black thorny vines.

"Stay? Stay here?"

"Yes." He opened a domed door that looked like it was made of solid black stone.

"I can't."

He fixed his cold eyes on me, making me stagger back a pace. My dedication to my post was so strong the response came automatically. Now I realized I sounded defiant.

I drew my lips into my mouth to wet them. "I...I have to get back. I have sick patients. That's...well, it's the reason I came to see you."

"I know why you came to see me. Your patients are recovering now."

I blinked again with my lips parted.

"The sixteen men and women," he said, as though I didn't understand. "They'll be healed by the time you return."

My heart began to thunder again. I actually felt woozy, as though this were all a dream.

"You really cursed them?" I said softly.

He turned and continued walking. After several steps I knew he didn't intend to answer me.

I was led down a long gallery. The paintings and sculptures it contained were of other gods like Exinious. I gaped at them like the unsophisticated child I was. I'd never seen such beautifully crafted art. Had I known there were other gods beside Exinious? I felt I had an inkling of this knowledge, but the god was fiercely private. Not much about him filtered down to us.

The gallery led into a large hall filled with dark blue and black furniture. A devastatingly high ceiling made me feel even smaller in Exinious' presence. He brought me to a parlor area abutting a massive column and sat on a regal blue couch. Exinious crossed his legs and reclined back. He tipped his nose at the space next to him. I perched myself on the edge of the couch, touching neither the armrest nor the cushions behind me.

I lowered my gaze and focused on tearing my cuticles. An internal voice chastised me. Speak your mind, Ashla. He obviously wants you to. What points are you gaining by being so meek?

"Why did you curse the villagers?" I said without looking at him.

"To bring you here."

I glanced at him, but only for a moment. "You could have just...sent for me."

"That's your response? You don't ask why?"

I swallowed. I assumed the reason was because he wanted a new wife. "Those people suffered tremendously."

"I was also testing you."

I forced my gaze to remain steady on him. His cruel eyes seared into me.

"You, who can cure anything. I wished to see if you could rival even my power."

I felt the color drain from my cheeks. "Of course not."

"Who gave you this magic, Ashla?"

I turned away from him. What a fool I'd been to come here. It was cockiness—arrogance. His ploy hadn't even occurred to me. I believed I was beneath his notice like all the villagers.

"I...I thought you gave it to me."

Exinious laughed. I darted my wide eyes back to him. The laughter made him seem more human, but did nothing to help my unease.

"You lie so easily." He smiled at me with eyes just as cold as ever. "You don't think there are consequences for lying to me?"

I put my face in my hand. If only I could have willed myself away from here. My skin felt hot. My stomach muscles felt as though I'd wrenched them. I even wanted to cry, but no tears would come, not even if they might help me.

I felt a caress on my head. I lifted my face to see that he was stroking my hair. The touch was gentle enough not to startle me. His eyes looked kinder somehow, though still narrow and gray.

"Where's your boldness, Ashla?" he said softly.

I spoke through trembling lips. "How can anyone be bold against you?" Stating this made me feel helpless, but there was some liberty in that. For once I didn't have to feel ashamed of my helplessness.

His face lightened even further. "It's fine that you lied."

My brow rose.

"Your secret is part of the reason you fascinate me. I don't want anything to lessen my fascination."

A cool wave of relief started in my middle, though it was still too unsure to release the tension in my shoulders.

"Will you take cativa with me?"

I was pleasantly startled. "Oh, yes. Please." I hadn't had any before starting out on my quest. It wouldn't be long before I had a headache from missing it.

There was a short wide table in front of the couch. Without a gesture or even a glance Exinious made a full cativa set appear on it. Steam poured from a pot as reflective as a mirror and beside it were three bowls of seasonings which had been ground to fine powder. I pursed my lips to keep my mouth from gaping. It was breathtaking to see such magic, even for me, someone whose tinctures could coax a displaced joint back to its socket in less than a day.

I poured the brown liquid from the pot into two cups. Then I hesitated. I'd taken the female role of server automatically. It was something I'd refused to do for men (and women) visiting patients in my healing tent. When they asked me for water I pointed to the barrel and merely told them to drink from a cup rather than the ladle. Those younger than me didn't question it, since they assumed this was the protocol in healing tents. Those my age to perhaps twenty years older were either affronted or amused. But those much older, the ones who'd survived plagues, humbly fetched their own water without complaint.

It was strange how it seemed fine for me to be Exinious' server. He was so much greater than anyone I'd ever known.

"How do you take it?"

"Identical to yours."

I obeyed while marveling at the fine cinnamon, sugar, and surat. Even the senators didn't have a cativa spread this lovely. I considered this might have been part of an attempt to seduce me. As dreary as the fortress was, I already saw the promise of a life out of my reach in the village. I began to steel myself against Exinious with a bevy of rejections. At the same time I felt flattered and yearned to see this god try to win me. It was absolutely stupid, but also, my feelings surprised me. Men attempted to court me in the village all the time. My singular response was disgust and anger. How dare they try to throw their yoke over the neck of the village healer? I didn't feel that same indignation now. There was a touch of excitement I'd never experienced before.

Exinious took his cup from me. "You lied to me out of fear and naiveté. I know there are energies in the universe beyond the powers of the gods. I presume you've tapped into some form of magic I was not aware of."

I sipped while staring at him.

"You don't have to hide such a thing from me, but I won't press you. Once you've grown comfortable I'm sure you'll explain your power."

Now relief swept through me entirely. I felt as though I'd been rescued from steep cliff side ledge. With that matter put to rest I let myself sit deeper in the couch with my back against the cushions.

"If you've truly captured some magic, then you're more intriguing than any other I've watched from your society. It must be fate that someone like you has come into adulthood right as I'm seeking my next bride."

I cheered inwardly like a fool. It was a moment of triumph that transformed almost instantly to dread. Why was I happy he might court me? I couldn't marry him. I was a selfish little girl, craving the flattery of a wealthy handsome man, with no intention of becoming his wife. How could I presume to lead on a god? I was better than this.

"My lord, that...that's not why I came here. I could never abandon my post as village healer. It...it's just not possible."

"Save your rejection for an actual proposal. I've yet to make up my mind about you." He examined the liquid in his cup. "Besides that, who says I'd force you to cease your work as healer? This fortress is not so terribly far."

I felt stupefied. He was handsome, mighty, and reasonable? Now I dared to hope there wouldn't be any flaw to his character that might repel me. He'd liberated me from my most formidable reservation.

"Your healing power isn't the only thing draws my interest." Exinious held his cup close to his lips, but didn't drink. "I'm not sure if your other traits are benefits or detriments. What it's going to take to determine this will test your limits."

I felt a flurry of unease.

"There's time enough for gentle coaxing. Provided you're willing." He sipped finally. "Let me share about myself, first. Do you wish to hear my story?"

"Yes." I said, without hesitation.

"Then I'll tell you, but with a warning. I don't want my past to be recounted in your history books. If you tell anyone I'll punish not only you but also the person you confide in. This is for you to know only."

I nodded. "I promise I'll never tell anyone."

He smiled slightly. "I know you won't." He cupped both his hands around his mug and leaned back in contemplation. "So...where to begin? There are seven of us gods. Only three of us are goddesses. Of those three goddesses is a defiant tomboy. The other two are wed. Helder, the god of light, warmth, and paradise, and Fizu, the god of the harvest and a supporter of Helder, have wives. Egar, the water god, sometimes steals Fizu's wife. She goes back and forth between the two of them. That left me to vie for Thina, the goddess of war, but in truth I've always regarded her as my younger sister. We've a sporting friendship that never veers towards romance. Thina is not interested in romantic love. If I ever dared press such a thing I'd destroy the respect we've built for each other."

I felt riveted. I wanted to know more about Thina, but already had a picture of her in my mind. The fact that Exinious had earned her respect struck me.

"Helder is the oldest god, and was once the most powerful. I'm the second oldest, and came to be an equal to Helder's power. We're opposites in our godly virtues, and hence adversaries. I'm the god of darkness, cold, and oblivion. Our worshippers have warred. We have warred. But all this is ancient history. The universe needs us both, and because of that, we maintain a tenuous peace. It would have remained so, perhaps for eternity, if not for Thina.

"One day I wagered with Thina that I could steal Helder's idol from his altar and replace it with the statue of a dog. Thina said that if I brought the idol to her she would vandalize it. I won't explain the great lengths I had to go to in order to steal it. Just know that I only barely escaped Helder's despicable fortress with the item."

Exinious paused to sigh. "Thina's company always brings out such wanton mischievousness in me. I didn't consider what the consequences might be, despite having never concocted a crime so bold before this. I underestimated Helder's cunning.

"He convinced the other gods that I'd committed an unforgivable crime. They banded together to capture and then bind me. I was brought to Helder's fortress to be judged by them. Thina defended me zealously. She tried to free me from my bonds, but was herself restrained. Helder threatened to have us both punished if I didn't accept responsibility. Of course, Fizu sided with his master Helder. Egar didn't believe my crime so terrible, I'm sure, but still chastised me for provoking Helder. He conceded a vote against me. The two goddesses also voted in favor of my guilt. One was gullible; the other fears and despises me. I was sentenced to 1,000 years of exile. This world is my prison. The five gods who judged me combined their powers to ensure I'm trapped here. They've kept the location a secret from Thina."

I touched my fingers to my lips. "How awful."

A dangerous realization struck me. I shoved it out of my mind as quickly as it came in case Exinious could hear my thoughts.

"This world was nearly void. I moved into the territory with the most life and then amplified it. There were no people here. I felt I couldn't bear my imprisonment without intelligent beings to engage me."

He sipped again and then paused a long while. I worried that the story might have ended.

"That's why you created us?"

Exinious shook his head. "No. That's why I created your predecessors. I lived with them in the valley behind this mountain. I tried to be a good steward to my creations, but I loathed the tedium of parenting them. By the second generation I tried to withdraw. They were still unable to feed and shelter themselves. I did this for them, and I kept doing it until I could no longer stand it. I withdrew enough to make them fend for themselves, but still rendered aid when I felt a problem was beyond them. More often than not my aid only begat more problems and led to more dependency. I finally created my fortress and withdrew entirely. They suffered for a time, but then thrived. I was pleased. I thought I'd underestimated them. It didn't take long for them hasten their own destruction, however. They stopped following my early teachings. They had famine. The ruling families built a ship and escaped by sea to seek new resources. The rest of them starved."

I made a look of consternation.

"It took a long while to convince myself to try again. I placed your ancestors on the other side of my mountain, where the resources hadn't been squandered. I gifted them with all the lessons I'd imparted on the last society and then withdrew, right at the beginning. Your people say I've abandoned them. This was the best thing I could do for you. You've already outlived my first civilization twice over."

This caused warmth in my middle and made me smile.

"When did you start marrying?" I said.

"Ah, yes." He resumed his contemplative posture. "A gangly nineteen year old girl climbed my mountain and invaded my fortress to demand I heal her father's gouty foot. I refused her as I had all the other requests your people made of me, but she wouldn't leave. Even when I expelled her by magic she climbed back up again and continued to badger me. I found her so amusing. She vacillated between begging me and cursing me. I'd never encountered such a persistent creature. On a whim I told her the only way I'd aid her father is if she became my bride. This finally got her to leave. I felt triumphant...until she returned the next day to inform me her father had given his permission and she now belonged to me."

I laughed.

Exinious smiled also. "Fiona was a very adequate wife. She improved greatly over the years, both in her wits and appearance. There always remained a simplemindedness about her that I found charming. Then, just when I thought she'd become my perfect companion, she succumbed to her old age."

My smile turned grim. I was touched.

"Eight years after her passing I became listless and courted a spinster who lived with her brother's family. Temori was just as adequate as Fiona, though shorter lived. She passed six years ago."

I sipped my drink in the silence that followed this. Exinious wasn't choosey, and yet wasn't sure he wanted me. Wasn't I better than a badgering teenager or a mooching spinster? I shouldn't have been so vain, I knew that. Yet I also knew I'd attained a high status in the village and gone to great lengths to educate myself.

"Tell me your life story, Ashla."

No! I was stung by horror and shame. I scrambled for some excuse to deny his request, but any dissent would have been rude after how he'd opened up about his own life. A deep furrow formed between my brows. I felt too conflicted to speak.

Exinious eyed me. "Hm. Let me make it easier for you. Do you hate men?"

This was indeed easier. I met his gray eyes. "I don't hate you."

He smiled momentarily and then said, "Do you abhor being touched?"

This was more difficult. I pursed my lips. "Sometimes."

"Now you're being completely honest. It gives me hope. Would my touch repulse you, Ashla?"

I shook my head.

Exinious uncrossed his legs and slid closer to me. "How old were you when you started healing? Sixteen?"

My brow furrowed. "No. I discovered my...gift at thirteen. When I was sixteen I set up the tents with my practice."

He touched the hair at my temple with a finger. "When did your father abandon you?"

"I...was ten."

"You have a sibling."

"My little brother. He was four months old."

"Your mother died giving birth to him."

"Yes."

"Your father didn't want to care for you. For either of you."

I hesitated. I wasn't sure if Exinious meant to upset me. Even after all these years, the pain was still raw.

"He wasn't caring for us," I said. "He never took care of us even before my mother died. All he did was drink wine and get angry. My mother took the full brunt of his anger when she was alive. When she was gone I had to take it."

"The crueler men down there often beat their wives and children," Exinious said. "It's a pity."

I nodded, suffering from my shame. At the same time I was glad he already knew all this. I wouldn't have to tell him.

"You were greatly wounded, Ashla."

I nodded without meeting his eyes. "I'm strong, though. Just like my mother was strong. He could never break her. He didn't break me either." I lifted my face toward him. "Just look at me now."

Exinious caressed my cheek while smiling at me. His touch was pleasant. I enjoyed the way my skin lit up after his hand passed over it.

"You were fortunate to have had the influence of a good woman early in your life. She kept you from growing into someone bitter. Now you're the most successful woman in the village. A role model for younger girls. You've much to be proud of."

The praise sent a flurry of joy to my middle. It meant a great deal to hear it from him.

"You might prove an exceptional bride for me."

My brow quivered. "You...don't seem to require exceptional brides."

Exinious laughed. "You think my standards are low?"

I didn't answer.

He began to play his fingers through my hair, causing tingly trails on my scalp.

"Don't be conceited, Ashla. Simple brides grant me easy marriages. It's easy to earn their trust since no one has ever betrayed it."

Oh. Now I realized why he needed to test me. I felt so discouraged it was something palpable inside my breast. He should take another simple, naïve bride from the village. I was happy enough with my practice. I didn't need this impossible fantasy dangled in front of me.

But, curse it—his fingers felt delightful as they wove through my hair. Why did he pet me so sweetly if I were just a damaged fruit to him?

"You present the opportunity for a deeper connection. One that could be infinitely more satisfying for me. I only fear that you don't really want this. I mean, tell me truthfully, did you ever plan to marry?"

"No," I said at once.

"Would you consider marrying me?"

"I'm open to the idea because you said I could continue my practice." I hesitated to continue, but his silence beckoned me. "However, I've suffered in the past, just like you said. I don't know if I could be happy or make someone happy as a wife, even if I truly wanted to. I've worked so hard to shield myself from vulnerability. It is harder for me to trust."

Exinious gave a shudder I could only describe as euphoric. He wrapped both his arms around me and drew nearer. "You're so effortlessly charming. You don't even realize when you're bewitching me."

My heart began to beat faster. I was pressed against him and his arms enveloped me with warmth.

"Listen, Ashla. Your wounds don't make you less appealing to me. You're delightfully complex...and soulful. And truly, if anyone is worthy of you, it's I."

I felt stricken. He said all this while still embracing me.

"You...move so quickly."

He threaded his fingers through my hair again. This time from the top of my head to the base of my scalp. I closed my eyes in a moment of bliss. His advantage over me was gravely unfair.

"I won't take any more from you than you're willing to give."

I nodded. His promises reassured me. Could I be happy with him? I certainly couldn't be with any man from the village, but possibly with him, our god. At the moment I didn't know. I felt too mesmerized by his embrace to trust my judgment.

"Your position as healer liberated you from the need to be married, but you've gone much further than merely rebuffing your suitors. You won't abide anyone to treat you as a woman. You've cropped your hair, the glory of most women in your village, you don't paint your eyes or lips, and you wear shapeless clothes. If I was to wed you, I would need you to become womanly."

I gave him a dubious look. (I would have told him my masculine style of dress was because it was easier to gain respect when I didn't look like the other ditzy village girls, but now was not the time.)

He kept his gaze constant with mine. "Is what I truly desire hidden beneath your cold veneer, Ashla?"

"I...don't know."

He rose from the couch. "Then I must find out. We've time to explore such things gently." He extended his hand toward me. "Come. I've a chamber for you where you can refresh yourself."

I took his hand and stood, filled with gratitude that the conversation had ended.

***

Exinious led me up a broad stone staircase to a mezzanine overlooking his great room below. He illuminated a darkened hallway with magic and led me to a chamber at the end. Inside I saw a wooden mannequin wearing a frilly apron seated on a chair across from a massive canopy bed. When I stepped in the room the mannequin rose from the chair and bowed to me. Her movements were stilted by stiff creaking joints. I stood frozen in amazement.

"This is Candy. She'll see to all your needs." Exinious took my hand and pressed his lips against it. "We'll dine together this evening." He closed the door as he left.

I faced Candy once alone with her. Her head was a smooth oblong without hair or a face. She stood with it slightly bowed and with her hands, which were the shape of mittens, folded in front of her.

"Um...I...I suppose I should wash up."

"Certainly, mistress!"

I staggered back with a hand to my chest. Her voice had a weird sing-song clinking quality, like glass being tapped by metal. Once I overcame my shock I noted how boisterous she sounded.

"Let me draw you a bath! And I should prepare you a snack, too, dinner's so far away." She gestured as she spoke, but with every third movement or so her elbow joint would get stuck and quiver a moment before jerking into the position she wanted. "I have a beautiful dress for you. Oh, please tell me you'll wear it. It will make the master so happy."

I rubbed my hand over my face. "Um, yes, I suppose a change of clothes would be nice." My undergarment had been freshly cleaned by my sweetly domestic little brother, but I only washed my dusty smock when I got blood or crud on it. "So long as it's not too revealing."

"Don't worry. It's lovely. You'll look amazing in it!" Her wooden hand gestured up towards an invisible mouth. "Oh! But first a bath. Come with me."

She made a creaky march towards a rear domed entry I hadn't noticed before. Her movements were unnerving, but I still liked her. If I could have ever been wealthy enough for a maid I would have liked one as cheery as her.

The room had a broad tiled floor with a high walled bath big enough for two men. A short distance beside it was a tall white glass chamber pot attached to the floor. There was also a fountain with a basin which I presumed was for washing clothes.

Candy went to the tub and turned two handles above a spigot. Steaming water began to fill it. I stepped over and noticed an oval mirror that allowed me to see my entire body. It was the first time I'd seen my reflection in such vivid clarity. Steam condensed on the bottom of the mirror, but the rest remained clear.

My face was as dusty as my dress. There was filth caked into a crease around my neck. My short blond hair was weighted by oil and dirt, causing unseemly clumps. When I dropped my cape I saw how boxy my smock made my body appear. The fringed leather boots I wore were haggard and discolored by mud. I winced. I thought myself such a prize, but this was what Exinious had seen. It's no wonder he hesitated to propose.

Candy had gathered my cape and shut off the water spigot. The tub was three-fourths full of enticing clear hot water. She went to a closet and brought me towels and several bottles. She aligned them on a ridge that protruded from the rim of the tub.

"This is to wash your hair," she said, while pointing to a pink glass bottle.

At home I used apple vinegar to wash my hair, but it was an expense I could only afford once a month.

"This is to wash your body," she said, while pointing to a blue glass bottle.

I usually scrubbed myself with damar root when I bathed. It left my skin dry and scaly.

Candy hugged the last bottle to her wooden chest. "And this is to moisten and perfume your skin after you've dried off. Rub it all over you. I'll come and help to rub it on your back. Use the whole bottle. In fact, use every drop from all three bottles, and take your time! Enjoy this luxury to the fullest, my dear."

I smiled at her blank face. "Thank you. I will."

She rushed off. "I'll have a tasty snack waiting for you. We have such treats for you to try!" Her wooden feet had difficulty gaining traction on the tile. She stumbled, but scrambled up undeterred.

I languished in the tub a long while without seeing to the work of cleansing myself. It felt ambrosial to be cloaked in hot water. Tension in places I hadn't even realized were tense started to melt away. It took so long for my stressed muscles to unknot I was astounded.

I'd been overwhelmed, and not just with the recent epidemic. Was not every facet of my life a struggle? I had to cease attending school when my mother died. Then, once I was finally relieved of my father's tyranny, we were kicked out of our home by the land baron. I brought my baby brother to a tiny lean-to attached to my resentful aunt's hut. I shoveled pig manure with him strapped to my back in order to earn a nursemaid's services. As for my own sustenance, there were the cheese rinds and ashy bread crusts from my aunt, any fruit I could steal, and, far too often, the garbage behind the tavern.

One hideously cold winter my aunt sold me to a man whose sickly wife needed constant attention. I saw not a cent of the money my aunt received, but didn't care. I was given refuge inside a brick house, access to hot meals, and a library of a thousand books to devour. I was allowed to bring my toddler brother with me. I rarely saw my master in the beginning, since he worked all hours of the daylight. Then he helped a crippled man into the upstairs of his home and said I would be seeing to his care also. My master worked fewer hours while my workload doubled.

When I cured the man's withered legs and strengthened my master's wife enough for her to rise from her bed I was granted my freedom and my legend began. I thought all my troubles would be ended when I became the village healer. And yes, there was a brief period of bliss. I celebrated the day I could bring my brother into a wooden house of our own. I gushed at the praise from satisfied villagers and cherished the comfortable income I came to manage.

Then the age when I should have married came and went. I found myself fending off suitors while provoking their ire. The senators themselves came to express disdain for my independence. The only women permitted to be single were those too defective or unlucky to have any prospects. A woman who had an opportunity to marry was supposed to do so, for what greater purpose can a woman have than to be a wife and mother? I continued to prove my merit as a great healer, and yet the criticism only grew louder and more virulent. If not for how dearly my services were needed I would have become a pariah.

Why did the village persecute me this way? When I strived so hard to help them?

I refused to think of Exinious as a possible solution to this problem. To marry him for such reasons would be an act of desperation. I was far from desperate. I'd stood strong in my convictions and could continue to do so.

Still, it would be nice to shut their smug mouths.

I cleansed my body and hair with the thoroughness of one who knew she had a pathetic wash basin waiting for her at home. I was often too busy to boil the water I bathed with. The chill would linger in my flesh all morning.

Candy returned just as I was stepping out of the tub. She wrapped me in a towel that felt more absorbent than what was available to me in the village.

"All done? Did you enjoy that, mistress?"

"Tremendously."

She helped scrub me dry and then used her smooth wooden mitts to lather me with the contents of the last bottle. I caught a glimpse of myself in a dry portion of the mirror. My face was clean and dewy with pink color in my cheeks. My hair was now a sultry pile of fat blond ringlets. I smiled.

Candy led me back into the bedroom wrapped in the large towel. She gestured to garments laid out on the bed.

"Here we are! Aren't these lovely?"

Of course they were more beautiful than any clothes I'd ever seen. The petticoat was just as delicate and decorated. The dress itself caused emotion to build in my chest. Half of it was a gorgeous midnight blue jacket with puffy sleeves adorned with peach colored lace. The hem of the flowing jacket matched the length of the dress. The bust of which was adorned with lace. The velvet skirt had enough fabric to be flouncy.

I ran my trembling fingers over it. "It seems...too good for me."

Candy gasped. "Nonsense! It was nothing but a thought for him. The barest flick of his magical wrist. And he created it to make you happy—so do be happy!"

I made myself smile at her.

All of it fit perfectly, just as I thought it would. Candy brought me to another mirror similar to the one in the bathroom. Emotion built in my chest yet again as I stared at my reflection. I looked radiant, like someone worthy of a god's attentions.

At that moment I was the wealthiest woman in the world. I stood as someone greater than my father, my aunt, and all those petty people who'd demeaned me. I felt invincible.

"One final touch!" Candy drew a stunning bauble around my neck. "Though you'll have to clasp it yourself. My hands can't quite do it." She made a clinky giggle.

I reached back to fasten the thread of multi-colored gems around my neck. Now my eyes sparkled. I could only sigh at the beauty of it all.

Candy pushed her wooden head next to my reflection. "Oh, you look exquisite! You'll be master's most beautiful bride yet."

I felt flustered. "Really?"

"Most certainly!" She placed her mitts on my shoulders. "Now come with me to the kitchen. You must be nearly faint with hunger."

Nerves had erased my appetite, but Candy was too kind to refuse. I crossed the room on delicate slippers hidden below the long flouncy skirt. It rustled pleasantly as I moved.

I was tempted to strut like the spoiled daughter of a senator, but managed to keep myself in check. These were but the affectations of an omnipotent suitor. I had to resist the allure of being so supreme. After all, I'd attained a respectable status in my own right. I was no longer the urchin scrounging for cheese rinds beside my aunt's hut. I was the village healer. The greatest healer my people had ever known.

The kitchen was down a spiral staircase and through a dark corridor. The table and all the fixtures were black, surrounded by cold gray stone. I saw more creatures like Candy, except with tall white hats and long white aprons, cooking or cleaning. We approached the broad table. On it was a platter of treats representing more food than I'd eat in a typical week.

"Is this for me?"

"Try a little of this or that. Don't stuff yourself mind you! Dinner is just a few hours away." She left me.

There was a great deal on the platter I didn't recognize, and then still more I sort of recognized but had never seen quite like this. I started with the familiar: cold shrimp and roast duck, a bite of a cheese tart, a few massive grapes, a tear off a hunk of sweet bread. One of the mannequins brought a pitcher of water and poured me a glass.

"Thank you."

I stopped eating to think of my little brother. Even the hunk of sweet bread would be a treat for him. Perhaps I could steal some?

"Is anything the matter, mistress?"

I glanced up. The mannequin who'd served my water had remained by the table. His voice was melodious, like Candy's, but decidedly male.

"I suppose I'm worried I'll enjoy it all too much. Then it will be difficult to go back to something like my corn porridge at home."

"Why would you have to go back, mistress? Aren't you going to stay and become the master's wife?"

"That's not decided yet."

It was difficult to tell, but I think he tilted his head in confusion. "What reason could you have not to marry him, mistress? Is this not everything you could ever dream of?"

What a nosy mannequin. I didn't feel it necessary to have this conversation, but, then, I didn't want to be rude.

"To be honest, I'm not sure if I'm cut out to be someone's wife."

The mannequin rested his mitts on the table and leaned down close to me. "Our master isn't just someone. He's your god."

My eyes grew wide.

"You should be honored he's taken an interest in you."

One of the other mannequins glanced back at us from the counter. "Sesame!"

"Who do you think you are?"

"Sesame, leave her alone!"

The mannequin stomped away from me. I sat frozen in his wake. I'd been caught so off guard I had trouble shaking it off.

After several moments I took a deep breath. This was good. I needed a reminder there were snakes in this pasture. The obnoxious doll had only helped me build up my resolve.

I bundled some treats in a cloth napkin and retreated back to my chamber.

The next few hours were spent with Candy painting my face and styling my hair. I washed away her efforts to color my eyelids three times before settling on subdued brown tones. It was lovely to stare at myself in the mirror as she fawned. The sweet thing was a comfort after how cruelly her peer had spoken to me.

Once it grew dark outside the black-curtained windows Candy ushered me into the corridor. I thought we'd go down the grand staircase, but she led me deeper into the corridors to a massive door at the end of one.

"Here we are, my dear. The master's chamber."

She rapped her wooden mitt against the door to knock. "Do enjoy yourself." She bowed at me and left.

"Come in, Ashla," Exinious said.

His chamber was massive, with the bed tucked behind a curtain against the far wall. Exinious stood beside a large oval table made from black stone. Around him were forbidding black columns that reached up with organic-looking spires that blossomed into massive tree-like structures. The room was both breathtaking and chilling. I forced myself to cross smooth black tiles that were as polished as the mirrors.

When I met Exinious' eyes I realized he was gazing at me with a contented smile. Heat struck my face. I'd forgotten what a vision I presented with the hours of preparation.

"You're stunning, Ashla," he said, once I stood before him. "I knew you had great beauty hidden beneath your callused veneer." He reached out to touch my hair. "I'm so pleased you wore my dress. You deserve such finery. I don't ever wish to see you in anything less."

I pursed my lips. How did one respond to flattery? I didn't know. I'd never experienced it before.

"How does dressing as a woman feel to you?"

I lifted my eyes toward him.

"Is it a costume you only tolerate for my sake?"

"Tolerate?" I said. "I'm not so ungrateful, my lord. I feel beautiful in these clothes. I wish I could be as lovely in the village, but then my rejected suitors would grow even more belligerent." I glanced at the fine sleeve of my jacket. "This is also not something I could wear while dealing with blood and puss."

Exinious laughed softly. He pulled back a chair for me to sit. "If you feel beautiful, then I'm happy. That's how I wanted you to feel."

I sat at the side of the table and he sat at the end beside me. His door opened and a parade of the mannequins with the white hats and aprons entered carrying platters and pitchers. I wondered if Sesame was among their ranks. (At least I didn't have to worry about him spitting in my food.) They filled the table with a feast too huge to comprehend, and then each bowed in turn and left.

I looked at Exinious aghast. "Why so much?"

"To impress you." He poured me a glass of wine. "Consider most of it decoration. We'll eat from the four courses nearest to us."

"Isn't that...a waste?"

"It came from nothing, and that which isn't consumed will return to nothing. Don't consider it a waste."

I tried to accept this, yet there were so many in need in the village. He could bestow such a banquet on us all with hardly a thought. Wouldn't it be acceptable for him to do that? I suppose he didn't for the reasons he already explained. Still, couldn't he give us a gift perhaps once a year? It would mean so much to the villagers.

If I became his wife I would be sure to take advantage of my influence.

He served me soup and bread and we began to eat. I became immersed in the wonderful scents and tastes.

Exinious lifted his glass. I fumbled to lift my own, and then clinked my glass against his. We both sipped.

"How can you bear the loneliness of this fortress?" I said.

"I keep busy watching the village, and I'm engaged by my staff." He sliced his food. "I don't notice how lonesome this fortress is until someone arrives and changes the air of the place. Then I remember what I've been missing."

After a suitable length of quiet I cleared my throat nonchalantly. "Why don't you tell me about the goddesses."

His brow rose.

"The, uh, the two married ones. You never said their names."

"Arma, the goddess of life essence and Brekka, the goddess of fertility. Arma is the wife of Helder and Brekka is the wife of Fizu sometimes and Egar other times."

I picked at my food. "You said one despises you?"

"Yes. Arma. Shall I tell you that story?"

I nodded eagerly. Exinious poured himself more wine.

"In the beginning Helder was the mightiest of all the gods. As his natural adversary I was sequestered to the lowliest realm of our existence. If I ever dared seek a place in the mortal world he would battle me, triumph over me, and send me back into the abyss.

"Helder cast me as the incarnation of evil in his scriptures since he benefitted from having someone for his followers to fear. The legend he built around me grew so elaborate I think even he came to believe some of it. He threatened to send traitorous followers into my realm, and, over time, came to do so. Of course these mortals suffered because my realm was dark barren place where there was no food or warmth for them.

"If I came across a condemned mortal they would beg for Helder to save them or try to fend me off by reciting Helder's scriptures. I was insulted, so I consumed their life essences. If I never found them they would die a miserable death anyway. I chose not to waste them. My powers grew with each essence I consumed, but I was still nowhere near the match of Helder.

"I don't know the exact circumstances, but a follower angered Helder so greatly that he saw fit to condemn his five year old son rather than the guilty follower himself. I suppose it was Helder's way to amplify the traitor's suffering. It was the first time a child had been sentenced to my realm. I was intrigued. I hunted out the boy and discovered that his essence was stronger and purer than that of the men I'd consumed previously. It looked so pleasant that I couldn't resist a taste of it. This time I consumed only a small amount, because I felt the child didn't deserve to die. I replaced what I'd taken with demonic aura. It was so long ago I'm not sure if I meant to do this or if the demonic power simply surged out to fill the place I'd emptied. Whatever the case, my magic enhanced the boy so that he was no longer stricken by the cold. The dear creature thought that I'd meant to protect him. He ran to embrace me. Wherever he touched his pure powerful aura seeped into me, and my dark powers came out to replace it in him. Orn became the first of my children, a demigod of sorts, who later lured other suffering children into the comfort of my embrace. My power continued to grow, and yet I knew I still fell greatly short of Helder.

"Arma is attuned to the life essence of all living things. She sensed the contamination I was causing mortal spirits. She appealed to Helder to investigate, but it's his custom to disregard her. She ventured into my abyss on her own. When she discovered the children she confronted me. In her eyes I was corrupting the purity of mortal souls. She feared my influence might come to contaminate her if it spread too greatly. I was commanded to cease drawing followers to my realm. I refused. There was nothing she could do. I told her to embrace the demonic energies. They made mortals stronger. She was selfish to resent that.

"As you can imagine, she was furious. She began to draw the life essence of the universe into her in order to have the power to destroy me. I saw the radiant energy flowing into her and acted without thought. I clasped her shoulders and absorbed it into myself. She screamed but couldn't resist me. I continued draining the energies through her until the conduit was closed, and then I drained Arma herself. She collapsed at my feet. I could have killed her but saw no reason to.

"I was churning with what felt like unlimited power. I set off immediately to challenge Helder. This was our first great war. I believed I'd exceeded him, but I was wrong. After centuries of continual stalemate it was clear I'd merely become his equal. This was fine enough. It allowed me to escape my prison realm once and for all."

I waited to see if there was more. The silence that followed gave weight to his story.

"But now you're a prisoner again."

He considered this. "I sealed my abyss so they could never send me back there. To bind me to a mortal world takes great power. If I fought them with all my strength they couldn't bear the strain to keep me here. They gave me a finite sentence, a mere thousand years. That's the only reason I acquiesced to them. I expect the matter to be over with after this."

"What if they betray you again?"

"Then I'll be less tolerant. They all have their own concerns. They don't want to spend eternity fighting me and Thina." He removed our empty plates and served some meat pie. "I accept my responsibility in all this. I committed an idiotic prank against Helder. Of course he'd overreact. He has no sense of humor." He shattered the flakey crust of the pie with his fork. "I needed to be checked."

We ate half our pies without speaking. (I decided to forgo the rest in favor of dessert).

"How much longer do you have here?" I said.

He removed my plate and placed a bowl of custard before me.

"I lost track some centuries ago, but I know it's less than 50 years. You could be my last wife from this world, Ashla."

The custard was velvety and contained chunks of sweet fruit. I lost focus in the delight of it. But then my last questions fought to be acknowledged.

"Do you absorb my essence?"

"No. I can't draw energy from my own creations."

"What will become of the village when you leave?"

He shrugged. "You'll be fine without me, just as you've always been."

I smiled grimly. "I guess it's good we never grew dependent of you."

The door opened and five mannequins wearing long black jackets entered. Each held a different musical instrument. They gathered around one of the black pillars beside us and began to play an exquisite melody. It was forlorn with a deep strumming beat. I became mesmerized by the sounds.

Exinious stood, regaining my attention. He offered me his hand.

"Dance with me, Ashla."

I swallowed. "I don't know how."

He smiled. "Let me lead you."

He took one of my hands in his, placed my other hand on his shoulder, and then wrapped his arm around my back. I was drawn close enough to him to give me goose pimples. He compelled me to glide quickly over the floor with him, bounding slightly, as our feet moved in tandem with the music. My dress billowed with the rapid steps. I knew his eyes were focused on me, but would not meet them. The poignant music enraptured me, the closeness of him thrilled me, and the rapid dance took my breath away. My stomach fluttered with delightful pangs that I closed my eyes to savor.

The song came to an end, and the musicians allowed silence to reign. Our feet became still.

"Look at me, Ashla."

I made myself obey, though it gave me shivers to gaze into his gray eyes. His face neared me and my heart quickened. He brought a hand to the back of my nape and pressed his lips against mine.

His hot moist lips caused a spark between us that lit a rapturous heat in my belly.

I'm already infatuated with him. I thought myself immune to such wiles.

And yet, I felt as though I were melting in his arms. There seemed little harm in yielding to this. His mouth was searching mine. I clutched him with both hands around his shoulders and parted my moist lips to accept him. I would have had the intoxicating kiss last forever.

He broke our mouths gently and smiled at me.

I smiled back demurely with heat in my cheeks. I know he wanted to pause to praise me. He would have inadvertently belittled me if I allowed him to. I stood up on my tiptoes and brought my mouth back to his.

I'd barely savored the renewed spark before his arms closed tight around me. Our bodies pressed together. I now felt the rapture of his strong embrace throughout my entire form. His mouth searched mine more urgently than before, and my limbs weakened from it in a heady, luxurious way.

He broke our lips again, and laughed. His fingers threaded deeply into my hair.

"My beautiful bride to be."

I enjoyed the caress while saying nothing.

He leaned down close to whisper against my lips. "My precious Ashla, I sought someone merely adequate. You're proving to be exquisite."

I met his eyes meekly, but felt triumphant. I resented there being any question to this considering his prior two selections.

"I'm going to marry you," he continued. "There's only one small matter that remains."

I met his eyes.

"Tell me how you obtained your magic."

I kept my face void of emotion, but my heart began to pound in my chest. Not that. I'd already forgotten my previous panic from this question. Once again I found myself on the edge of a cliff. My thoughts swirled madly in my head. There had to be some way I could escape answering.

"If that's the only barrier to our being wed, then let's save this conversation for when I'm entirely certain of my decision."

"Are you really not certain, Ashla?"

I made myself smile sweetly at him. "I'm almost certain."

He shrugged. "Very well." He gestured for the band to continue and they began a new exciting melody. "I'll be patient."

We danced until it was time for us to say goodnight.

***

When Candy brought me back to my room I didn't make ready for bed.

"Candy, I need my clothes. The ones I had on when I first arrived."

She didn't move for a moment. "Of...of course, mistress. I had your clothes cleaned and mended for you."

She gestured to a chair beside the bed. My undergarment, smock, cape, and boots were neatly laid out. They looked new again.

"Oh, thank goodness." I quickly shed my fineries and donned my old clothes.

"You're not leaving us already, mistress?"

"I'm afraid so." I pulled my smock over my head. "Exinious wanted me to stay for a few days, but there's something urgent I have to see to in the village."

Candy brought her wooden mitts to her chin. "But, mistress..."

I clutched her shoulders and stared where her eyes would have been. "Candy, please be a friend to me right now. I need to get back. It's important, and I don't want to quarrel with Exinious about it." I turned away from her to cram my feet into my boots one by one. "I need you to apologize for me profusely to him. Tell him I promise I'll come back just as quick as I can." I paused to look at her again. "Please, Candy?"

The distressed mannequin nodded.

I had her come with me down into the great hall, then through the gallery, and finally out through the door leading to the arcade. We exited into the barren courtyard. The cage was where it had landed, but the bird was gone.

"I—I need the bird," I said.

Candy fretted with stilted movements beside me. "Oh, I hope the master won't be angry. If you sit in the cage the bird should come. Oh, but mistress, to leave this way..."

I gave her a hug. "I'm sorry to put you in this position. I'll return to Exinious. I swear I will. You must reassure him for me."

She nodded, still in a fretful pose.

I dashed out to secure myself in the cage. Within moments I could hear the beating of wings. The creature swept down and carried me away.

Despite still being fearful of the bird and the great heights we soared, I managed a sigh of relief. Now I had a chance to fix things before a catastrophe happened. I just hoped this was a simple matter. So much Exinious had revealed about himself baffled me. It had to be sorted out delicately.

I clutched the bars and squeezed my eyes closed. What would Exinious think when he awoke and found me gone? He might become too furious to forgive me. If he forbade me from returning I would be devastated. The anguish would torment me for months. Surely we'd connected enough for him not to react that way. It was a risk I knew I had to take, though I loathed it. I'd treated him worse than I would any village suitor.

I felt the cage buoy as the bird descended. A bump wracked my body, and then we were still. I allowed myself to open my eyes. We were on the same terrace where he'd collected me the day before. The sun now peeked over the horizon in front of me.

"Th-thank you," I said to the bird.

He ruffled his feathers.

I exited the cage and began the difficult descent downward. This was when I noticed my boots had been re-heeled. Candy had been so thoughtful.

When I was down one ledge the bird set off again with the cage. I clung to the rocks until the wind from his flapping wings no longer shook me.

As I neared the base of the mountain I noticed a crude tent with a smoldering fire before it. I worked my way down to it and peered inside. The occupant was wrapped in a bear skin.

"Hello?" I said.

Senator Diones sat up and unraveled himself from the skin. He climbed out looking more disheveled than I had ever seen him.

"Ashla. Are you well?" He clambered to his feet.

"I'm fine, Diones."

He pawed his hand through unwieldy tresses of silver and black hair. "I was worried for you." He swallowed. I could tell he was embarrassed. "I wanted to be sure...to be sure you made it back."

"That's very kind. I wish you hadn't suffered this way. You must have been miserable."

He wet his lips, and then turned from me to tear down his camp. All his provisions were piled on the fabric of the tent and bundled.

"My patients should be recovering now." I helped him kick out his fire.

"Is that so?"

"Exinious lifted his curse from them."

Diones froze. He turned to look at me slowly. "He'd truly cursed them?"

I swallowed. "Sadly, yes."

Diones shook his head with dismay. He hoisted his bundle onto his shoulder and walked beside me toward the valley.

"He made them sick so I would come to see him," I said. "He...he wants me for his next bride."

Diones' pace slowed. I glanced at him.

"It would be a terrible thing for the village to lose you."

"No, don't worry. He said I could continue my work as healer."

Diones halted. Again I looked at him.

"I still think...it would be terrible."

There was a quaver in his voice that made my brow twitch. Was Diones in love with me? My thoughts raced. His wife had only just passed the prior year. But, then, that explained why he was hesitant to express his interest in me.

He parted from me when we crested the hill. My feet were sore from dancing, but I forced myself to lumber onward.

An old woman was pumping water at one of the village wells. A few other souls were venturing out as dawn lit, to herd their sheep, or to haul goods to the market. I sped up my stride. I didn't want anyone hassling me now.

My tiny wooden house was in the center of the village, crammed into a row of similar structures which were all businesses of one kind or another. A residential area composed of huts or lambskin yurts was on the street behind us. In front of us was the market, and beyond that, the beach leading to the sea.

I dashed inside. My thirteen-year-old brother was sitting up on his cot looking groggy. He spoke with a whispery early morning voice.

"Ash? Did you just get back?"

I tossed my cape onto my own cot. "Is everything okay here, Ramy? Did the patients start to get better?"

He nodded while rubbing his eye. "Yeah, most of them went home even." He pointed to the back door that would lead to my healing tents. "I think just Esther and old lady Siota are left."

"Good. I'll go check on them." I moved toward the door.

Ramy reached for me. "Wait. What happened? They're sleeping still. Just tell me."

I sighed and sat next to him. His rosy face looked plaintive. He was as blond as me, and the older he got the more people commented on how similar we looked.

"Exinious cursed those people so I could go see him."

"What? Why? Is it the magic?"

"Let's not talk about that. Anyway, he's decided he wants me for his wife. I haven't said yes, yet."

His lips parted in shock. I mussed his hair.

"Don't worry. He said I could continue my work as healer. He's not planning on imprisoning me up in his fortress."

Ramy looked down a moment to consider. "It sounds like you're going to say yes."

"Does it?" I pursed my lips. "I don't want to think about it right now. I need to square things away here so I can go into the forest to collect potions." I rose.

Ramy grabbed my arm. "Oh, but you have to tell me what he's like! Tell me everything you saw."

I wriggled free. "Later, brother. I promise."

My final two patients had only shadows etched in their skin where the boils had been. They slept without the least hint of discomfort. I saw to some housekeeping, and then allowed myself a long nap. In the afternoon I was awoken to treat a clammer who'd twisted his ankle. Then the senators came and harangued me until dusk. They felt it was their decision whether or not I should marry Exinious. I let them enjoy their delusions.

Night finally came. I donned my cape, grabbed a basket, and ran into the forest. There was only a half moon obscured by cloud, but I knew the trail well enough. I walked forthrightly, despite having no particular destination in mind. If anyone watched me it would seem as though I were searching for medicinal herbs. I continued this charade, going deeper and deeper into the forest. The moon reached its apex in the sky. I started to get weary. Still, I strove onward to the distant creek. There I sat on the grass beside the tinkling water and rubbed my face.

"Come on," I whispered.

I stayed on the cold ground long enough to get drowsy. I thought about huddling in my cape for a few moments of sleep. Then a light glimmered across the creek. I climbed to my feet.

A fairy the size of a little girl's doll flew toward me using gossamer wings. She crossed the creek and hovered in front of me.

"Ashla," she said, in a voice that seemed too deep for such a small fairy. "We've much to discuss."

"Yes." I pursed my lips. "Those people I couldn't cure—they'd been cursed by Exinious."

"I know. You climbed his mountain. What happened in his fortress?"

"He wanted to know where the magic came from."

"Did you tell him?"

"Of course not. But now he wants to marry me. He's insisting I tell him where I got the magic."

The fairy laughed. "This is wonderful, Ashla. You must go back to his fortress and marry him right away."

My eyes grew narrow. I stared into her sparkling face. "You're not what you appear to be. Exinious told me all about the gods who'd imprisoned him here. You're the goddess Arma, aren't you?"

The fairy had milky blue eyes that were so large they made her look like an insect. She fixed those eyes on me several moments while beating her wings gently. Then she drifted back and her glow intensified to a blinding white light. I shrank back with my arm blocking the glare. When I looked again the fairy had turned into a slender woman with long silver hair and the same stark white coloration as Exinious.

"Do you cherish the gift of healing I've given you, Ashla?" Arma said.

It took me a second to collect myself. I'd only met the fairy twice before. The first time I'd gone into the forest to weep. She comforted me and bestowed her generous gift. The second time was some weeks after our first meeting. I went back into the forest to thank her. This was when she told me I had to keep her gift a secret or she would take it away from me. I remember the pang of dread this had caused me. She'd been cloyingly sweet before then, and suddenly revealed a darker shade. I swore I would keep our meeting a secret, but never sought her out again.

"Of course I cherish your gift. You know I do."

"Then you must never forget—I can take it away from you."

A stitch formed in my chest.

"Don't you wish to marry Exinious?"

The question caused me a wave of unease. "Why do you wish for me to marry him?"

"That will make itself clear in time. You simply need to obey me. Without the powers I've granted you, you'd be nothing in your society. I know you'll pretend that doesn't matter to you, but you can't pretend you don't care for your people's suffering. Without you, wounds will fester, disease will cripple, and mothers will risk their lives to bear young."

Her last sentiment made my throat tighten. Again my naiveté had come to slap me across the face. I truly believed I'd gotten a gift without any dire conditions ten years ago.

The betrayal I felt choked my voice. "Exinious won't marry me until I tell him who gave me the magic."

"You may not tell anyone. Especially not him." She folded her hands behind her back and paced along the creek bank. "Simply tell him you promised to your mother on her deathbed that you would never share the secret."

I felt as though my stomach descended from my middle. "You...you would have me profane my mother for such a horrible lie?"

She spun on her heel to glower at me. "Yes. Or would you rather relinquish your powers now?"

I'd lost all words. I could only gape at her while being overcome by a dizzying wave of nausea.

"Grow close to Exinious. Make him adore you."

"Why?" I could barely speak.

"Don't question me. I've been your gracious benefactor for years. I ask for such a little thing—for you to seek the love of a handsome and charming god. Don't you dare claim you despise him. I'm certain the opposite is true. It's easy for you to heed me, and yet you waver like an ungrateful child."

I closed my eyes. "You want me to harm him."

Arma barked with laughter.

I looked at her.

"You're a speck of dust! What would I ever have you do to him that I could not do myself?" She sneered at me. "Don't presume to know what I devise, or why, or anything about me. Simply obey."

She vanished. I gazed around me wearily to be sure she was gone.

Her voice boomed out from the forest. "Defy me, and you rob your people of their healer!"

I drew a deep, forlorn sigh. The forest had become silent save for the chirps of crickets and the croaking of a frog. I forced my limbs to start on the long trek back.

***

I slept in late. My last two patients had gone home and no new business wandered in. My brother kindly allowed me to laze while he attended to his errands. Every once in a while I'd wake up enough to feel distressed. My fatigue allowed me to yield back to the amnesia sleep granted.

Ramy came back from the market and made me cabbage soup and dumplings. I reveled in the comfort food while finally giving him a full account of my adventure, minus Exinious' history, as he'd requested of me.

"If you're going to go back you need to go now, Ash."

I frowned. "Why is that?"

"Because there's no one sick to keep you here. Who knows how long that will last?"

I looked out our open door. (We were venting the cabbage stink.) The colors of dusk were lighting the sky.

"Then Mabel can sleep in your cot again."

I darted my head back towards him. "You let her sleep in my cot? You're going to give me lice!"

"She cleaned up first." He shoved a dumpling in his mouth.

I fumed, but was actually glad my brother hadn't been lonely. Mabel was a 12-year-old orphan who slept with others of her ilk below the west bridge. I wasn't yet sure if Ramy's interest in her was romantic. He was just reaching the age for it.

I freshened up before heading out. This took longer than expected. I suppose I was inordinately preening. I had to race to reach the base of the mountain before the light faded. If Exinious didn't send his bird for me, I had no chance of reaching the summit tonight. At least I could say I tried.

I climbed toward the spot where I'd been retrieved before. The sight of black boots hanging over the ledge shocked me, but then I realized who it was. I clambered up the rock to sit next to him.

"Hello, my dear." He said this without intonation while staring into the darkening sky.

My face grew hot, as though I'd been slapped. "You're angry with me."

"Yes."

I closed my eyes. His cold veneer bespoke pain, not anger. I knew that would be the case, and yet I had to flee. If I lost my power the villagers would suffer tremendously. I didn't hesitate to run because it was necessary. Only now did I face the wretched consequences.

"Please forgive me, Exinious." I wanted to cling to him and implore him. His coldness shielded him from my touch.

"Beseech me."

This made the hair prick up on my neck. Okay, I suppose he deserves it.

"I'm sorry I ran away. It was cruel of me to leave you without a word. Everything was happening so fast. I was...I was afraid."

"Am I truly so fearsome?"

I became plaintive.

He fixed his gray eyes on me. "You hid your misgivings well. Had I known, Ashla, I would have reassured you. You robbed me of the chance. Then you tormented me by resuming your life as though nothing had happened between us. I worried that you wouldn't come back. I loathed that uncertainty."

I inched closer and hugged my body against his side. "Please forgive this foolish little mortal, Exinious."

He glared at me with an expression of pure spite, but then pulled me into his arms and crushed his lips against mine. The passion of his embrace seared me. I felt instantly swept away to a rapturous, heady place. He'd bared himself to me. He might ravage my mouth to conceal it, but I'd seen his sweet vulnerability.

I felt the hard rock beneath me transform to softness and the air was suddenly warmer. He broke from the kiss to reveal we'd transported to the parlor area in his great room. I caressed the side of his face.

"Thank you," I said.

He stared at me with a lingering touch of pain in his gray eyes. "If you wish to leave, simply ask me."

"I won't leave until you've had your fill of me."

Exinious neared my lips once again. "Then you'll never leave."

His kiss was sweet this time. I clung to him and savored the spark of our connection. He made me feel weak and floaty. Both sensations I welcomed. This time I'd come to him without apprehension.

"Tomorrow we'll feast and frolic," he said. "Let me and my servants show you all the wonders of my fortress."

I smiled demurely. "I would like that very much."

He pulled himself away from me and stood. The empty space he left behind caused a throb in my chest.

"For tonight you should rest. Return to the chamber I assigned you."

He left the great hall without another word.

***

Candy was thrilled I'd returned. She spent the evening doting over me. I became so comfortable with her that we stayed up late together talking. She spoke about her mundane life in the fortress and in the process I learned that she didn't eat or sleep.

"Why did Exinious make you out of wood?"

"It's so funny you asked that, mistress. I just asked the cook yesterday why he thought the master made the villagers out of flesh. If his people didn't need to eat and were as strong as wood then his first village would never have died."

I blinked a few times. I'd presumed myself a superior breed to Candy's kind, and yet what she said was true.

"If we were made of flesh the master might fall in love with one of us."

I gasped, and then laughed. Candy joined in with her tinkling giggle. I felt a new solidarity with her as fellow creations of Exinious.

The following morning she dressed me in the lavish finery I'd come to expect. I stared at myself in the mirror. It was the second time I'd ventured into this world so far above the village. The first time it had been stunning and novel. This time it seemed to suit me.

I felt it was easier to be this elegant person I saw in the mirror. I could indulge in my femininity without the fear of appearing weak. Part of me was weak, or at least part of me didn't wish to always have to appear strong. There was less stress here.

I wished I could pass my gift on to Ramy and abandon the village.

I flinched at the selfish thought because I couldn't transfer my gift but I could abandon the village.

No. I would leave never the village without a healer. They needed me. Even if some were unkind or ungrateful, they didn't deserve the strife that had preceded me. Part of that strife had led to my mother's death.

Yet some of my duties were truly loathsome. I was so above messy childbirth and maggoty sheep wounds in this place. I knew it wasn't forever—but surely there was no harm in enjoying these respites?

Exinious stood in the doorway staring at me. I smiled at his reflection in the mirror.

He came beside me and caressed my hair.

"What a beauty you are."

I saw myself blush. "Thank you."

Exinious took my hand and had me face him.

"Ashla, say you'll become my wife."

I let myself be swept into the vortex that was his gray eyes.

"But first tell me how you obtained the magic."

My heart felt like it dropped from my chest to my stomach. I forced my expression to remain placid.

"You promised to show me the wonders of your fortress. Let me see what a day would be like here before I consent to marry you."

His eyes narrowed so slightly it would have been imperceptible had I not been fixed on them. "In your village marriage contracts are made between people living on distant farms who meet each other for the first time on their wedding day. They have long, often happy marriages despite having been strangers. You've come to know me far better than that, and you still don't consent."

I avoided his eyes. "I come from the heart of the marketplace, not the primitive farmlands."

He made an annoyed smile. "Why do you play games with me, Ashla? I know you want to be mine. Is this what our marriage shall be? A constant battle of wits?"

His candor broke through my façade. I wasn't trying to be difficult. My goal was to divert him from his question.

I took a long, shuddering breath. "I don't want to talk about my gift. I want you to forget about it."

His annoyance dissipated. He caressed my hair. "That's the only thing I don't know about you. The only wall that separates us."

Pain built in my chest. There was nothing I could say. My lower lip quivered and tears fell. I couldn't remember the last time I'd wept, but it came to me so easily now.

What was worse? Losing my gift, or losing Exinious?

"It must be a terrible secret."

My tears came with more fervor. I placed my face in my hand.

"There's nothing you can't tell me, Ashla." He threaded his fingers through my hair. "Wouldn't you feel better if it didn't burden you like this?"

"Of course I would." I struggled to speak through my quiet sobs. "You don't understand."

"I think I do."

I darted a wide-eyed look toward him.

"Was it Thina?"

My heart began to throb. I stayed frozen lest I reveal the secret through his process of elimination.

"No. This isn't like her. One of my enemies, then? Helder? Has he made a slave of you, my dear?"

I could scarcely breathe.

"They won't let you tell me, will they?"

I finally broke my gaze from his. Oh, how I wished this conversation would end.

He placed his thumb on my chin and made me look at him once again. "You must answer one question, Ashla. If you refuse I'll send you away. It will rend my insides to do it...but I will."

I wept with horror.

"Are you here to hurt me?"

"No!" I cried this out with all my soul behind it. It was the truth. Even Arma had confirmed this.

He wiped my tears with the pads of his fingers and kissed me gently. I gave him a plaintive look as our lips parted.

"I won't let them take you from me. Whatever the trouble is, we'll solve it. Don't concern yourself with this any longer."

I lunged for him and threw my arms around his shoulders. Though I was happy, I continued to weep in his arms. He held me tight while shushing me. I felt he loved me at this moment. Exinious would protect me, and finally being able to yield to someone else's strength was a glorious thing.

We breakfasted on a sumptuous meal together, and then he gave me a proper tour of the fortress, including the highest spires. I was able to look over the clouds and see the village as a tiny clump of dots before the beach. I felt as though that life were so far from me. Once again I thought I would have no trouble living in this new world.

We returned to the great hall where his band was set up to play. He taught me a more sophisticated dance than I'd ever known. I was clumsy, but persevered because I loved the melody. Several times he caught me as I tripped. Sometimes I was so awkward we both had to laugh. Other times he sensed my frustration and drew me into his arms to kiss me. I adored these moments of sweet tenderness.

During the evening meal (in a proper dining room this time) his mannequins put on a play for us. Their costumes were stunning creations turning them into animals or people bearing grotesquely exaggerated expressions. The stage was made to represent a forest in fantastic cut out layers. I forgot where I was and who I was with and became lost in the elaborate tale. When it was finished I cheered and clapped with so much gusto that Exinious laughed at me.

"How does the fortress suit you?"

We walked down the upstairs corridor with our elbows interlocked.

"Perfectly," I said with a soft smile.

"You won't always find it so entertaining. I fear you'll grow bored at times, but then, you've your work in the village to occupy you."

Yes, I suppose so. That would be a good life, wouldn't? With days spent toiling in my practice and evenings spent in luxury with my husband.

Perhaps I could work just a few days each week. Exinious was spoiling me.

He stopped me in front of an ornate door and placed his hands on my shoulders. We stood facing each other.

"Now, my dear..."

The somber tenor of his voice caused a flutter in my breast. I gazed deeply into his eyes.

"This dark chapel is where I perform my marriage rites. We'll kneel on pillows facing each other, join our hands, and recite the vows my ceremonial servant tells us. Then we'll drink from the same cup. We'll kiss. And when our lips part, by my laws, we'll be wed."

I lowered my eyes and nodded.

He opened his door, but stood in place to address me. "You've a choice. To come into this chapel with me, or to go back to—"

I didn't let him finish. I just went in.

***

We ate breakfast in bed together the next morning. Exinious' servants magically knew all his wants without any action from him. We munched and cuddled together.

"I suppose I'll have to descend to the village today."

I gave him a confused look while nibbling a persimmon.

"For the marriage rite of your people."

"Oh," I said. "The senators do all the marriages in the morning. I'm sure it's too late."

"Pah!" He laughed at me. "I'm not bound by their petty rules. They'll see to me whenever I wish."

Of course he was right, but I wondered how they would feel about having to cater to me at the same time. "I would prefer a traditional morning marriage. There's no rush. If we go at once I may find a herd of sick goats waiting in my healing tents."

Candy came in later with the servants who gathered up our dishes. She held a fluffy robe for me.

"Mistress! It's after noon. You must wash and get dressed."

I smiled at her gentle chastising. Exinious nudged me.

"Go with Candy, dearest. The leaders of my followers report in with me each morning. I fear I've kept them waiting."

I kissed him and obeyed, while saving my questions about his followers for later.

Candy treated me to the full toilette routine. I bathed and coated myself with cream, then donned a lovely violet gown. She was just finishing my eye make-up when another maid staggered into the room.

"Something's happening," the maid said to Candy.

"What do you mean?" Candy said, while pausing from her work.

"There's clouds all around, but the sun's shining a beam on the fortress. Master's on his throne all dressed up like he's waiting for something."

Candy set her brush down slowly. "Oh dear..."

"What is it?"

She put her wooden mittens to the place where her mouth would be. "I don't know, mistress. I fear there is some trouble."

Exinious' throne was in the great hall far removed from his parlor area. My groom was slumped in a jagged throne that looked to be made of black rock. He was no longer dressed as a wealthy villager. He wore a golden collar, a golden band on his upper arm, and golden gauntlets on his wrists. His chest was now bare (and beautiful) and he had fabric draped about his hips secured with a golden belt. There was now a jeweled scepter in his hand which made me realize this to be some kind of godly uniform.

When I caught his eye he sat up and beckoned to me. I ran to his side. Exinious took my hand.

"Stay with me, Ashla."

"What's going on?"

He closed his eyes as though it were difficult for him to speak. "Helder's coming. I don't know why."

My heart began to race. "Has he come before?"

Exinious shook his head. "I haven't seen any of my kin for almost 1,000 years."

I winced.

"It has something to do with you," he said.

I swallowed a heavy lump of dread. "Oh...I hope not."

I smelled smoke. When I looked up I could see a spot of the ceiling was on fire. I gasped, but Exinious watched this also without emotion. The flames burned open a broad circle and sunlight streamed through. The beam shone blindingly bright. I was reminded of Ashla's transformation beside the creek. When the light receded, a being like Exinious stood before us. He had a full blond beard and long hair separated into three pleats. He wore gold and white robes and held a golden scepter with some animal that was unknown to me carved on the end. His eyes were aquamarine and cruel. Crueler than even Exinious' had been at his worst.

The two gods stared at one another several moments.

Finally, Exinious gestured to his ceiling. "You damaged my fortress, Helder."

Helder scoffed with extreme annoyance. "Who cares about your hideous roof?"

Exinious tented his fingers beneath his chin and waited. This made the other god fidget.

"Look," he said, "your term is up in 47 years. I was coming to let you free early. I thought you deserved it for your good behavior."

"Rubbish," Exinious said.

Helder's voice grew louder. "Then my wife noticed this abomination you've created here. That village, peopled by soulless automatons, mere vessels of flesh given life through nothing but your dark magic."

"Watch your tongue. You're insulting my wife."

I was fearful, but not insulted. Exinious had made us with great care.

Helder sneered at me. "Of course you married one. You're obscene."

Exinious hugged me around my hip to refute him. "Leave, Helder. You've no concern here. You cursed me to a lifeless world and I made the best of it."

"No. You made the worst of it." His fist tightened on his scepter. "Even worse than when you drink the souls of children. You've blighted the life essence of the universe like never before."

Exinious smirked. "Oh? You're here for Arma's sake? Since when did you care about her?"

"I care for mortals—my children. You've created heinous facsimiles here."

"So heinous it only took you a thousand years to notice them?"

"Enough!" He pounded his scepter against the floor. "I've met with the others, all except Thina. I told them how you made humans who have no souls. Who become voids upon the grand ring of life essence—who simply disintegrate to nothingness, to oblivion, when their mortal spans are complete."

I blinked while scowling at him. How else could it be?

"You robbed an entire civilization of an afterlife."

Exinious shook his head in exasperation. "That's how you described it? I gave life to nothingness. It returns to nothingness when that life's completed. I've done no harm."

"You have done harm—all for your own selfish entertainment. All of us, save for Thina, are in agreement. You deserve another thousand year term for this crime."

Exinious bolted upright. "No!"

Dark energies began to radiate around him like black and purple smoke. I could feel the ominous power, but held my ground beside his throne.

I saw Helder's cruel expression quaver for a moment. He regained his composure and spoke calmly.

"Hear me, Exinious. What we rule is fair. You must abide by it."

"I won't!" His voice sounded demonic now. "I'll resist you with every ounce of my being. Thina will sense the ruckus. She'll come and fight beside me."

"I said hear me. You've not heard it all. Cease your threats. A new war will benefit no one."

Exinious dropped back into his throne. He covered his forehead with his hand. His anguish made my stomach clench. Why? Why did these beastly gods get to rule him?

"You have a choice. To exist with your wretched creations another thousand years, or to destroy the evil things you've created and go free at once."

I felt as if a fist had reached into my chest and seized my heart.

Exinious lifted his head slowly. He trembled with anger. "You call that a choice?"

"How does killing us remedy anything?" I screamed this before I could help myself.

"There is no remedy for soulless things," Helder said. He looked back at Exinious. "If you've grown sentimental I'll destroy them for you. I can take care of this one immediately."

I staggered back. Exinious clutched my arm. The dark energies poured out of him with new fervor.

"Touch her and I'll kill a million of your followers."

Helder's eyes narrowed at the threat. Then he raised his nose. "It seems you've made your choice, then."

"I choose neither option." He stood again, walked to Helder, and brought his face mere inches from him. "I choose war."

Helder turned away from him as though he couldn't bear him so near. "Don't say this, Exinious. You're my godly brother and I've tried to be fair to you."

Exinious jabbed his chest with a finger. "You've never been fair! You only seek to con me into accepting another thousand year term. The first one wasn't fair and neither is this!"

Helder swallowed. "If you feel so strongly then I'll bring the others here. We'll judge you in your presence."

Exinious hesitated, and then strode away from him. "All of them. Thina also."

"Absolutely not."

He returned to his throne. "And how is that fair?"

"You expect me to deliver your ally should you decide to war with me?"

Exinious scowled at him.

"We'll form our tribunal this evening. Tell me you'll accept this, and our ruling."

"I accept nothing!" He clenched his jaw. "We're at war now, Helder. Unless the tribunal makes things right, it will remain so."

Helder considered him a moment. Then swept his outer robe closed. "Be thankful I'm not as reckless as you." His sunbeam intensified to blinding light once again, and he vanished.

Exinious slumped in his throne and covered his face with both hands. I felt stricken. Tears spilled down my face easily. Just as before, Exinious brought up emotion too strong to hold in. I soothed his back while feeling helpless.

"Comfort me," he said, with a voice weighted with just as much emotion.

I climbed onto his lap and muffled my tears in his shoulder.

"This is just the first part of his trick."

I looked at him, but Exinious had turned his face away from me.

"He knew it wouldn't work, but he got me to consent to a tribunal. That's what he'd wanted to begin with."

"What will happen?"

"Helder, Arma, and Fizu will stand together. Egar won't accept a preposterous verdict against me. He knows he may one day have to face his own tribunal. He'd rely on the same civility from me if so. Helder would have to convince him his verdict was truly fair. Brekka can be easily conned by Helder, but she may be Egar's wife right now, and could vote with him. Helder's case against me is weak. Thina's vote will be presumed in my favor, regardless if she's absent."

I gave him a plaintive look. "The odds are already stacked against you."

He held me closer. "There's one thing in my favor: none of them want a war. If a guilty vote means they have to fight me, they'll compromise to avoid it."

That was of little solace to me. I clung to him in the silence that followed with a horrid ache in my middle. What part did I play in this? Arma must have presumed Exinious didn't care about the villagers enough not to sacrifice them for his freedom. She used me to get close to him to give him a greater stake here. That's how it seemed for now, but I feared there were even greater consequences to our union that I couldn't yet fathom. The tribunal would become a trial for both of us. I couldn't bear to remain an encumbrance for him.

His enemy gave me my gift. It was naïve to think she'd let me keep it while conniving with her husband against Exinious.

"Arma..."

Exinious looked at me.

"Arma gave me the healing power." The words became more difficult for me. "She...she said if I told anyone she'd take the power away."

Exinious' lips parted. "That...was your secret?"

I nodded.

He drew a deep breath. "I'm relieved it wasn't something more." He resumed his gaze to the side. "What does it mean? It made me notice you, but that was no guarantee I'd wed you. Even though I have, what difference does it make?"

"Maybe they thought you'd have destroyed the village if you didn't love one of the villagers?"

Exinious shook his head. "I wouldn't do it even if you weren't my wife. They know me better than that."

My brow furrowed above a plaintive expression. "Then why...why did she go to all that trouble ten years ago?"

He petted my hair with one hand. "There's more. I told you. Helder's treachery hasn't fully revealed itself. It's all part of an elaborate plan to keep me imprisoned. I need to concentrate...to figure out their next move before they make it tonight."

I pursed my lips. "How can I help?"

"By trusting me." He spoke without meeting my eyes. "No matter what decisions I make for us you must not contradict me. Even if I ask for great sacrifice from you." Now he looked at me. "Promise you'll trust me no matter what, Ashla."

I swallowed and nodded. "I promise."

***

At dusk the first two gods appeared before Exinious' throne. One god had a black mohawk that extended back into a long ponytail. He was bare-chested, except for jewels, and had long draping fabric covering him from the knees down. His skin was as white as Exinious' but his gray eyes had a peaceful look to them. Beside him was a goddess who had to be Brekka. She had a large bosom concealed by a tiny white dress. Her hair was light blue and white curls that fell to the middle of her back.

"Egar and Brekka," Exinious whispered to me. (I'd retaken my place beside his throne.) "This is wonderful. If they're together Brekka must currently be his wife."

"How have you been, Exinious?" Egar said this as though he had no choice but to ask. He did not meet Exinious' eyes.

"I was very well until a few hours ago."

Egar frowned and shrugged.

"What happened a few hours ago?" Brekka said.

I blinked. She had the same kind of dimwittedness I'd seen in younger village girls, but thought impossible for someone immortal. Egar leaned close to whisper to her.

A god with short flaming red hair appeared in a ray of light that was not quite as impressive as Helder's. He wore a long tan waistcoat and black pants that flared before they cinched into tall boots. I felt he was the ugliest of them so far. He surveyed the room smugly and then made a deep bow to Brekka beside him. Brekka covered her mouth to giggle.

"Fizu," Exinious whispered to me. "Helder's minion."

The sunbeam breaking through the roof brightened to an unbearable glare. When it receded both, Helder and Arma stood before us. The white-haired goddess narrowed her eyes at me. I gave her a cruel look in return. I no longer felt beholden to her.

Egar crossed his arms. "Alright, Helder, what's this all about?"

My lips parted.

"Do you see that woman next to him?" Helder said. "He built her out of flesh, breathed his dark magic into her, and let her live a soulless existence. She's not without a mind. She has a will of her own, but when her life ends she will crumble to nothingness. She was only made so he could have a plaything. He married this one, but there's a whole village of these soulless creatures."

Egar considered this with a stern face. Brekka stared at Helder with wide vacant eyes.

"So it's bad because they won't have an afterlife?" Brekka said.

"Exactly, my dear," Helder said.

"He's been marring the essence of human life practically his whole existence," Arma said. "The radiant energy of mortal spirit used to glow with pure bright light. Now it's darkened—become tainted. All of humanity is more wretched because of it."

"I haven't noticed," Egar said.

Arma stuck her nose in the air. "I've told you before, it's imperceptible. A change over the tiniest of margins. Be glad it's not so terrible that it's obvious. The effect is cumulative and worsens it with every soul he pollutes."

"That's unrelated," Exinious said. "These people have no souls to pollute."

Helder hissed to silence him.

"This is even worse than the crime of polluting souls." Arma's voice rose sharply. "There is a void where their life essences should be. There can be nothing darker than oblivion, and the god of oblivion has now pockmarked the stream of mortal spirits."

"I took nothing out of that stream to create them," Exinious said.

"Silence!" Helder said. "You'll speak at the end. Keep your mouth shut if you want this trial to continue."

Exinious remained stoic.

"What's his sentence?" Egar said.

Now Exinious fixed an incredulous gaze on Egar.

Egar eyed him before continuing. "You can't be suggesting he gets another thousand years for making himself company?"

"Fool!" Arma said.

"I'm not so unreasonable," Helder said. "I gave him a choice. To serve another sentence with his abominations, or to simply abandon them and go free now."

"That's not the choice you gave him!" I screamed this. All their eyes fixed on me.

"Why is she here?" Helder said, as though just now noticing me.

"Wretched traitor," Arma said softly.

"Hey." Egar spoke louder than them. "I want to hear her."

Brekka focused on me with a broad smile.

My heart now thundered. I clutched Exinious' armrest to steady myself. "Helder told him he had to destroy us all if he wanted his sentence to end."

Egar groaned. Brekka looked like a bee had stung her.

"Really, Helder?" Brekka said.

"No. I said for him to leave them to die off on their own. Without him to support their pantomime of human society."

I gasped at his lie.

Helder continued arrogantly. "He refused that offer because he didn't want to leave his wife."

"So let him keep his wife!" Egar said. "You're going to risk a war over something so trifling?"

Fizu looked as though he'd actually gone paler. "No one spoke of war."

"I did," Exinious said.

Fizu gave Helder a look of shock.

"I said be silent until you're given leave to speak," Helder said.

"Exinious is being more unreasonable than you know, Egar," Arma said. "This wife he chose is the village healer. She's desperately needed by her people. She refuses to abandon her duties, and he refuses to relinquish her."

Egar groaned again and put his face in his hand.

Exinious and I exchanged a glance. We'd both just unraveled Helder's ploy. Arma presumed my devotion to my post would be enough to force Exinious to accept another thousand year term. The superfluous intricacy of the plan just baffled me. Exinious' enemies were cunning imbeciles. It was a wonder how they'd ever imprisoned him in the first place.

"Let him leave," Egar said, "with or without his wife. That's up to her. But if he doesn't go today then he has to serve another thousand years."

Everyone went quiet after this. Egar, Brekka, and Fizu looked at Helder.

"Is that fair, Helder?" Fizu said.

Helder glanced at Arma.

"Are you going to abandon your post as healer, Ashla?" Arma said. "Will you leave wounds to fester, illness to cripple, and mothers—like your own mother—to die in childbirth?"

I stared at her wryly.

Exinious took my hand. "Yes, she'll leave," he said.

"I didn't ask you!"

"This is your final warning, Exinious," Helder said.

"Of course I'll leave with him."

Arma flared her clenched teeth. "So you don't care about your own people?"

I returned her look of ire. "I don't think I have my powers anymore."

"You do, you foolish wretch." She spoke more softly. "You may keep them so long as you stay here."

Egar looked confused. The rest of them waited on me.

Exinious squeezed my hand. "Say you'll come with me, Ashla."

I stayed focused on Arma. "I already said I would."

She scowled and turned away.

"Are we finished here, Helder?" Egar said.

Fizu scratched his ear. "He still has to answer for his crime."

"He'll serve another thousand years," Helder said. "I refuse to accept any less!"

Arma hooked her arm into Helder's. "Indeed. We've more than proven our case against him."

I shook my head, aghast.

The black tendrils of Exinious' aura poured from him once again. I stood beside his darkness both proud and stern.

I could see the fear in Fizu's eyes. "Are you...are you going to be unreasonably defiant, Exinious?"

"What do you expect!" Egar said. He glared at Helder. "It's too flimsy. I can't justify another sentence."

"It's not your choice," Fizu said, while looking downward.

"Yes, but Thina's vote goes to Exinious—"

Helder drew breath to speak.

"...and Brekka's voting with me. It's a stalemate."

Helder darted a look at Brekka. She looked at Egar, then Exinious, and then me.

"I mean...if she wants to go with him, then fine, right? Everyone's happy."

Arma threw up her arms in exasperation. "Fine! Then she has to leave with him right now." She glowered at me. "I hope your little brother dies of a pox!"

Her curse felt like it struck me across the chest.

"This isn't what I wanted, Arma." Helder spoke to his wife through clenched teeth. "His evil needs to be vanquished once again."

"This is all for your idiotic bible, isn't it?" Exinious said.

"Silence!" Helder said.

"No," Egar said. "I'm fed up, Helder. Let him free." He crossed his arms and scowled. "No one's going to go to war for you."

"How about against me?" Helder said.

Egar eyed him. "You don't want that either."

Exinious cleared his throat.

Arma drew near to Helder. "This is fruitless, Helder. If you can't punish him, at least make the girl miserable for me."

Helder scoffed. He forced himself to look at Exinious. "Abandon this world and take your despicable wife with you. That's it. That's the totality of my sentence." He looked at Egar. "Surely you agree to that pittance."

Egar nodded. Fizu and Brekka gave their affirmations in turn.

Helder looked at me. "You're exiled from your home. That's what you wanted, correct?"

I didn't hesitate to nod, but it was with anguish in my throat.

Exinious rose from his throne. "I must abandon this world at once with my wife. I accept this, and only this, and nothing more. We'll leave and never return."

"Yes," Helder said. "That's my decree."

He pulled me against him. "Farewell."

***

I continued to feel Exinious' arms around me, but saw only stars and the dark night sky. The stars turned to streaks of light. I felt as though I were descending in the cage the bird carried. I closed my eyes and huddled against Exinious. So long as I felt him I knew no fear.

When the feeling of gliding ended, and my feet once again felt solid ground, I lifted my head. We were still in the fortress before his throne. The gods and goddesses were gone. I looked around me with lingering disorientation. Then I fixed on my husband.

Exinious smiled. "I brought the fortress to my home."

"Your...home?"

"Helder referred to planets. We're on a different planet from where we were. I can school you on that later." He touched my back gently. "Come with me. You'll see it's very different outside."

I didn't move. My lower lip quivered as I tried to form words. "My...little brother..."

He smiled again and soothed my hair. "Have no fear. Trust me, Ashla." He continued to guide me forward. "Come."

He brought me up to the highest spires of the fortress where I'd gazed down on the village. We were at the back of his fortress, opposite to the side I'd been before. What I saw took long moments for my mind to decipher. It was a village, certainly, but greater than my own by a thousand times. The structures were white, some were rectangular, some round. All of them glittered like jewels. Many were so large I thought they were near to us, but as my eyes adjusted I could tell they were quite far, only bigger than our mountain. There were white vines connecting buildings and crisscrossing through the air, only they weren't vines. They were as broad as streets. I finally had to look away. This was the village of the gods, and far too much for me to fathom.

"Come to the other side of the fortress, Ashla." He coaxed me with a gentle hand. "There's still more I want to show you."

I closed my eyes. "I don't think I can see anymore. You've made my head hurt."

"But you're a clever girl, Ashla. You'll come to understand it all. It will be wonderful to share it with you. My world will be made new to me, at the same time. That's what I need after such a long absence."

I let him bring me to the opposite side of the fortress, but hesitated to look. Visions of the white village still addled my mind.

Exinious caressed my cheek. "Look down, Ashla. Don't be frightened."

I obeyed him. Then had to blink to be sure what I saw was real.

It was my village, just as I'd seen it before.

My lips parted. I could see our dark soil spreading out over the white surface of Exinious' world. The ocean that had bordered us was gone, and more of that unfathomable white village skirted our boundary instead. But the village was there. The mountain was beneath us. And the fortress...of course, the fortress.

"You brought us all with you?" Was that what had happened? I couldn't believe it as I said it.

"Yes. There's no exile for you. I'm going to incorporate your village into my world, as slowly and as delicately as it needs to be done."

I shook my head. I was still stricken by disbelief. "Helder told you to abandon us."

"He said to abandon your world. I followed his decree."

"Won't he be angry?"

Exinious stroked my hair. "I hope so."

I resumed my gaze on the village. "Oh...but what a shock for them all."

"This place is better for your people, Ashla. It's a world of comfort. No child will ever know the poverty you suffered here. And they've no need for a healer any longer. In my world we've replaced your magic with the science of my mortal followers. You'll see it's just as effective. Your role will now be to help acclimate your people to their new home."

My brow rose. "I'm amazed."

He hugged me from behind. "Be happy, Ashla. I'm free now. Free with you, my sweet new bride."

I turned into his embrace to face him. "I can be happy. I'm sure of it...in time."

He swept back a strand of my hair. "What would make you happy right now?"

It took only a moment's thought to have an answer for him. I smiled. "Introduce me to Thina."

Exinious laughed and kissed me. His sweet mouth sent flutters of warmth to my belly. I was heady with exhilaration; fearful, but also eager. My trust in him gave me the freedom to believe in happiness. Even if I didn't know the full scale of this world, I knew he would always be there to guide me.

A note from the author: Thank you so much for supporting my work with a legal purchase of this ebook. Please do not share this ebook on file sharing sites, torrents, or the like. This devastates my ability to make a living from my work. If you see a request for a free copy of this title on a forum please post that the author requested her work not be shared this way. I really appreciate when people help me out like this!

