

A Walk with Our Lord

The Journey Continues

The Lord speaks to all of us. In this journal, the Lord has made His presence known on many occasions. I have been shown many things, some I understand, many others I do not. It is through the Lords' Grace that He watches over all of us. It is His love that He wants to share. Please read this with an open mind and allow the Holy Spirit to show you the truth.

Dreams Part 2

February 7, 2019

For the last two nights I have had the same dream. Somehow, I was working at a hospital but only after a couple weeks, maybe 1 – 3 weeks, I quit them. They were several people I was saying good-bye to. This dream still leaves me puzzled. I do not know if I was working there or I was a patient. This is leaving me very puzzled.

I have had an abscess tooth for the last three days.

February 11, 2019

There were two dreams last night that left me puzzled. In the first one I was with my sister and her new husband or boyfriend, not sure which. He seemed like a nice enough guy and we got along well. He was very wealthy but down to earth as well. He had given her a marijuana edible. Basically, it was a bud covered in candies. Sister kept telling me watch out and do not eat the rose because it is very powerful. I did nibble on about four pieces of the candy but never ate the bud. Then I said I was going home. The dream switched then.

I was driving home where Mike and I lived. As I turned one corner, I said no not that way because he does not live there anymore. I went driving the other way and turned the corner. Suddenly, I was walking in total darkness. As I was walking, I stepped into a hole and then right back out of it. My foot went down almost to the knee. Then I noticed to my left the darkness had a faint glow of about a hundred lightning bugs. It was very pretty. I continued to walk in the dark until I got to the white building. As I was walking down the corridor, it reminded me of being in a hotel. I went down to the end of the hallway, then came back one door which was my mine. The next thought I had was although, from the hallway the rooms would appear small, but once you opened the door, they were very large houses. Then on the door something caught my eye. There was a poster size decoration encased in glass hanging on the door. It had old holiday decorations and several written notes. Two notes caught my eyes. One said this is not fair. The other one said, this cannot be right. I knew instantly they were from Mikes daughters. Then it struck me. This was an epitaph. I woke up then.

Note: The road represented my sins. After I stepped into the deep hole, it was not long before the road was encased in light. I love the Lord and I will do what He needs me to accomplish. Over the weekend, I did manage to self-publish some books that the Lord had given me ten years earlier. They are in eBook format and they will encircle the world. When I was putting "The Parables of Jesus, A Study in Love", I asked the Lord what price I should charge. Jesus spoke," As it was given freely, give it freely." I said not a problem and that is what I did. The books are not for my glory. The glory belongs to the Lord. I have one more to do, on Revelations, it will be done. Always trust in Lord for His ways are righteous and just. I thank you Father for your forgiveness, thank you Jesus for your mercy and love, thank you Holy Spirit for constantly being with me. Thank you so much.

February 12, 2019

This morning. Two separate dreams with the same meaning. In the first one, I was looking at a road in the sky. I could see the road going up over the hill and then other side, it started going down.

The second dream, my mom was with me when the car topped a hill. On the backside of the hill, it was a very steep downgrade. It looked scary and I got a little scared. It was passable, but a very deep descent.

Note: I think the Lord is showing me that I am at the crest and great sadness is fixing to fall on me. I know it can be worked out with the Lord there helping me. I just have one more very low point in my life to come and it is just around the corner. I think I know what it is, my spirit feels it. I am fixing to lose several loved ones. A tear is rolling down as I write this.

Thank you, Lord, for the warning. I know you will be with me. Thank you so much.

February 14, 2019

Occurrence: Over the last several days, I have uploaded four free books on the one website. Three of the four came directly from the Lord. The fourth one was just my story of my personal walk with the Lord. I know it has angered the evil spirits. When I was pulling out of the driveway, I noticed a tire had shredded directly in front of the driveway. It was a radial tire with all sorts of rubber pieces and metal spears covering the road. I live on a busy road, but for a tire to shred directly in front of my driveway could not be a coincidence. I just said a prayer and asked the Lord please do not let our tires go flat. If it was the evil spirits that did that, then let their followers find the metal shards.

When I went to school, one of the students came in early and we had a very strong talk about the Lord. Tyler has had some major troubles in his life, but his heart is beautiful. He is in a spiritual battle and it weighs heavy on him at times. The Lord has a major plan for Tyler to accomplish and he knows it. He is afraid of the battle, for fear and anxiety. He will win. Jesus says He will protect His and no evil can beat Jesus. Our journey can be tough at times, but never will it be impossible.

February 15, 2019

Last night, the student Johnny came in and shared with me some of the events that he had just experienced. Remember, he did not believe in the Lord or Jesus, just a month ago. The night before he was sick at school and I told him go home and get some sleep. He said he walked out the back door last night and within thirty seconds, his phone began to ring. It was his mom. She had run out of gas and she was needing his help. He had won some money on a scratch off ticket a couple of days previous. He went and filled her car up with gas and then gave her the rest of the money that he had. He said then he stopped and went and bought one more lottery scratch off ticket. It hit for fifty dollars. Just then, he whipped his car around and went back to his mom and gave her the rest of the money. In all total, he had given her just over 150 dollars. His mom called him later and told him she needed 150 dollars because they had turned off her electricity. He looked at me and said he knew it was God. I looked at him and asked him did he believe Jesus was the son of God. He said he did. He said he has no doubt about God now. Later that evening, he told me that he had asked God to reveal himself to him and our Lord did. His mom is going through some rough times and Johnny gave his mom the number of one of the preachers in the class. I told him to also give her my number just in case she cannot reach him.

Now, I was not the only influence on his change. There are two preachers in the class, one that will also go into ministry, and then another man who is strong in the Lord that showed up last night and talked with Johnny. For the Lords work to be done, many people are called in to help. One never knows where the words will come from and how they will affect others. We just need to be open to the Lords will and his direction. Thank you, Father, yesterday was a beautiful day for your kingdom.

As the class ended last night, Tyler, James (the other preacher) stayed for about thirty minutes. James wanted to share his testimony with the two us. His wife had come down with Stage 4 terminal cancer two years ago. No one in the hospital gave her any chance of survival. James said that him and several other people had prayed over her and then they all worshipped the Lord. He said his wife could not talk but she raised her arm in the air with her palm stretched out giving praise to our Lord. That night, he asked the Lord to let her speak his name and the name of her mother. What he did not know, was that she was also asking the Lord the very same thing during the night. When she woke up in the morning, James asked her if she knew who he was. She said, "Yes, you are my husband James." Then she said her mothers' name. After she regained her strength to some degree, she told her husband the following.

She said during that time, she had gone to the light several times, but she refused to go into it. She said she wanted to, but she had a daughter who was fixing to graduate from high school, and she had a new grandbaby on the way. She wanted to see them both. She told him the light was beautiful and very peaceful, but she was not ready. She received a miracle because they worshipped God. They knelt before His feet, asking for His grace. James said miracles do happen but only if we kneel and seek our Lord. James went on to say, that many times they kept hearing a knock on the hospitals room door. There were a lot of people that worked at the hospital, and they just wanted to see the miracle lady.

This was the Lords timing, because Tyler is afraid of battling the evil spirits that have him by the ankles. I could see in Tyler's face contemplating on his own battle. He is scared but he also knows, this must be done. Once again, the Lord allowed me to witness His timing.

Like I had said, yesterday was a beautiful day for the kingdom of the Lord.

February 16, 2019

This morning around 5, our sons ventilator hoses had water in them. Wife got up and took care of it. I had asked the Lord where I am going next. I fell back asleep and dreamed the following. It was a very vivid dream. A dream that had so much clarity, that it stood out.

I found myself in a small town and I was arranging my clothes in my truck. I was basically living out of the truck or I was in a long journey. I was arranging my clothes right there in a middle of the intersection of the town. Vehicles were going around me, but nobody honked at me for being in the road.

When I had finished picking out the clothes I was going to wear, I went to find the local small store. I asked a man, where the store was because it had moved from where it had always been. The man said it had moved about a block down next to a farm warehouse or something. A farmer had taken it over and he no longer offers a credit account to the customers. The heart of the town had changed.

I was going into a building where an event or meeting was taking place. When I walked into the men's bathroom, I found myself not wearing shoes. I went to the one urinal that was off by itself a little. It was overflowing and there was mud or feces mixed in with the overflow. I carefully stepped around it and found another stall.

The faucets in the bathroom were steadily running and spraying water everywhere. I tried to adjust two or three faucets, but to no avail. I looked at another man in there and he said he taught plumbing, but he did not teach the shop portion. He said he would get some of the students to come and fix the problem.

The next scene, I was downstairs in the reception area of the building. My shoes were on my feet this time. I was scanning the crowd where everyone was nicely dressed and talking with each other. They were all smiling at each other and their clothes were pristine clean. As I was headed toward the one door, a lady came up to greet me. I recognized her immediately and said with much excitement, "Mrs. Ter..". She took a step back because she did not recognize me. She had been my sixth-grade science teacher and I was in the same class as her daughter and son in law. I was telling her where I had known her from, but she still did not remember. I woke up then.

I understand the urinal. Be careful what we allow our self to do, because our actions could be unclean. I had been unclean. The bathroom was the chaos. I am not sure about the crowd of the people. It is through the Lords grace that He can forgive us of our actions. It is through His love, that He still watches over us. Thank you, Father.

Occurrence: I have been asking the Lord for the last several days that I needed a project to occupy my free time. I was led to read about Dr. Ritchie and his near-death experience. When he went to heaven, he came back with a very powerful message from Jesus. We are on this earth to learn how to love one another. To die of ones' self and focus on the love from heaven. Death is only going through another door.

The project that the Lord has for me is to simply read the Bible again. I am starting with the Gospels and I have read both Matthew and Mark. The journey has begun once again.

February 17, 2019

Last night I had two separate dreams about death. The first dream was about a car running off the road and being submerged in water. Then I dreamed I was on a trip with my brother. The third dream was about death. The wife, my brother, and I were driving down a road and came upon people killing two very large, yellow boas in the street. The First snake was severely mangled, and they were killing the second snake with a machete.

The last thing I heard was "fear from heaven". These I do not want to speculate on.

February 19, 2019

I woke during the night hearing. "We have anointed him."

Update: I thought it was about our son, and it still maybe. I knew it had to do with death, but I had no idea who it would be.

February 20, 2019

Sunday night the Lord gave me two weeks. He showed me this morning in a dream how it was going to be quick. Our son will pass, but we will not realize it at first. I will not go into the details of the dream, but when we realized it, chaos broke out in the house.

This dream followed. I was standing looking at some very ornamental, gold and brass plates on the wall. Each one had some writing on them. When I read all the plates, I understood the message. Trust in the Lord and all will work out. There was another figure standing at the end of plates to provide additional strength. I believe it was my brother.

I have been asking the Lord to allow Hunter to talk with Jesus and the angels before they take him. I asked that Hunter remember the visit and tell his mother. Mom does not want to accept the fact that his time is complete, and I am no position to tell her what the Lord has been showing me. She will have to hear it from him to understand it. It will be rough on her because he is her life. She is very strong but there will some rough times for her. Hunter is one of the best men I have ever known.

February 23, 2019

This morning, I had three dreams. In the first one, I was talking with the HR at a hospital. In a sense, I wanted a job at the hospital, but at the same time, I did not really care. I was still smoking a cigarette when he started the tour.

The other two dreams involved me talking with hospital workers but then I walked downstairs and saw James, his wife, and a very, tall fellow with them. James said well right here is the man I was talking about. He introduced me then he went to get to himself a drink. In the last one, I was still at the hospital but this time I was teaching. I only saw the end of the class and do not know what subject I was teaching.

I believe the Lord was showing me that I desired to do spiritual healings and not exactly wanting to work maintenance. I was helping people heal spiritually. I do not believe I am intended to work at a hospital, just that I will help others heal from the pleasures and evil of this world. I have no idea how that will happen, but I do know with the Lord, all will work out according to His plan. We just must be receptive and a willing vessel. He will do the rest. I am just man, nothing more.

Last week, Johnny had come to class and told me he thinks God is mad at him. I asked him, why would he think that. He said that he has been praying to the Lord and thanking Him for this or that. He is starting to see God in everything. He said God will not answer Him back. The Lord has been silent. I told Him God does not always speak to us. It could be days, weeks, or months before His majestic voice speaks. If he is praying from the heart, then his prayers are heard. Like Mother Angelica said, sometimes the answer is no answer. I simply told him God is not mad, He is still there. Just keep praying.

Tyler and I had talked several times last week as well. Tyler is in a severe battle with the evil spirits. It started when he was teenager. As a teen, he opened the door into the spiritual world that he did not understand. The spirits took over and he battled for several years in and out of the hospitals. He asked God one night, to give him his mind back. God did and he started to improve. He has fought this battle for 12 years. He is still fighting this today. He told some things that he never told anybody else ever. He was telling how his mind struggles with the voices and his own actions. I tried to explain to him, that he was not sick. All the doctors and therapists that he has seen, have treated him through their material teachings of this earth. Not one of them, has ever fully explored the spiritual side of the battle. He is scared to fight because the evil spirits have convinced him that he will not win. His spirit knows differently, but it is his mind that gets confused. Another gentleman and I were talking with him and we asked him, can evil spirits beat Jesus. He said very quickly, "No, but...". We stopped him in his tracks. There is no but with Jesus. Both of us told him at the same time. He just smiled. He knew that argument had no merit. He is taking some medication for depression and bi-polar. The peculiar thing is I have seen this several times with my own family. The medicine gives the body a high, then the high is followed by a crash. It is like taking an energy drink, feeling great for a minute and then the body crashes. Anger, frustration, and depression follows. I am not a physician and I cannot tell him to stop his medicine. He did say that every time he goes to the doctor, they keep lowering the dosage.

Tyler had explained to me what the card game was that he was always playing. When we pulled up the cards, almost every card had a demonic symbol on it. I looked at him and told him that is how the evil has come in. Those cards opened the doors. He told me he had played with the cards about four years before he came down sick. James said that is how the evil works. They start off nice and innocent, then they get deeper. The game is all about power, destroying humankind, casting spells, creating plagues, and everything evil. He does not want to stop, but his soul knows he must stop.

This could be the reason for the dreams about the hospitals. In those dreams, I was never a patient, nor did I ever see a patient. Just be open to the Lord and His love will come through. Do not let the enemy derail you from your path. All of us will step on and over the line at some point. The Lord is still there, and He still sees all. Just have patience and wait for the Lords timing. We may never know if a word from us has an effect or not. When we find ourselves in a situation, allow the Holy Spirit to speak through us. The words that come out of my mouth still astonishes me, because I know for a fact, I am not that wise.

March 2, 2019

For the last several days, I have had several confirmations of an event that is fixing to take place.

  1. I have been asking Jesus to come and talk to our son Hunter before he leaves this earth. I have asked that Hunter remember and is able to tell mom and myself what was said. I also asked for the angels to leave some feathers around his bed for a confirmation. Several times last week, I have seen small, pure white feathers in and around work. Never around his bed, just at work.

  2. I had asked the Lord if He was going to take Hunter, would He show me two doves outside. Now, we have not seen doves in our yard for over six months. Before I left the driveway to go to work, I saw two doves.

  3. I asked the Lord if this was going to be His will, would He have Bruce, my former lab assistant to come to work on a Thursday. Bruce showed up this past Thursday (a week after I asked the Lord) and I told him about the anointing message. He Looked at me and told me the Lord is preparing you for the event. I said yes, to many things have fallen into place. He showed up just to visit, there was not a special reason why he showed. I asked him would he take over the program during my absence and he agreed he would.

  4. Before the Holy Spirit spoke and said that they have anointed him, I was asking the Lord how much longer before Hunter goes to heaven. I went to say out loud three but then it changed to two weeks. I was asking the Lord for a passage today and He gave me Psalms 24. It talks about how only the pure of heart goes to heaven. I then asked if Hunter is to leave in two days, would He show me a passage that said the word two. He gave me Song of Solomon, chapter four. Solomon is talking about his love and twice, it said the word two.

  5. I have not talked to my folks in five weeks. Normally it is me that calls them. Today they called and we got to talking about the events to come. Mom agreed and was worried about how my wife and I would be if that occurs. She was genuinely concerned, but then I reassured her and told several things that calmed her down.

  6. We have had to put Hunter on the ventilator during the day. This is not normal, but for the last four days, we have had to. He gets congestion in his lungs and is not able to clear it. It can take from thirty minutes to six hours to clear his lungs enough for him to tolerate the speaking valve on his trach.

  7. Today is my wife's birthday. I have asked the Lord, please do not take him on her day. I believe that is where the two days from now, came in.

If this is the Lords will, then let it happen. It will not be a happy event, and chaos will reign for a short time. The only thing that I know for sure, Hunter will no longer be in pain and will be able to run and jump. He has told me he is tired of hurting. I just keep telling him, it soon will all be over, and you will never have to go through this again. I asked him if he was afraid to meet Jesus, and he looked at me, grinned ear to ear, and said no not at all. I am just waiting for him to tell us what happened in his meeting.

March 6, 2019

Hunter is still hanging in there. We do have to put him on the ventilator now during the day. He is starting to lose some bladder control at times. I had a dream the night before last where my brother and I were staying at a relatives' house. He said we could stay one more night, but I did not want to. He had a puzzled look on his face when I told him that. I was ready to leave.

I talked with Hunter yesterday and asked him if he felt if this was his time. He told me no. I then asked him, if Jesus came and told him He was going to take him home, would that okay. He smiled and said yes, that would be okay. I then asked him if he thought mom, the grandmas, and myself would be okay if he left. Again, he smiled and said yes. From what I am seeing, he is ready to leave. I thought he might be scared but he is not. He knows that Duchenne's' is attacking his internal organs. He still smiles a lot and makes some jokes. I still make him laugh every day.

March 9, 2019

Storms are hitting our area today. Severe thunderstorms and I have never seen all the trees dance like they have been today. I find it hard to interpret the messages from the Lord because I am often wrong when I try. Hunter is still with us although he is having a lot of congestion in his lungs today. His spirit seems a little sad because of the fact it is hard for him to get relief from his lungs. The temperature outside is almost 70 degrees and normally when it does that, he breathes easier.

The Lord often gives us all some insight into events, but He may never reveal the greater plan. I must trust in Him, for there is no other place for me to turn. This is part of my battle. It is very hard to see our son slowly get worse and be in constant pain. Father please forgive me and give me the courage to continue. When it is Hunters time to come to see you, may it be a quick transition. Many people wonder if there is an afterlife, all I can tell them yes there is. When it is our time or the time of our loved ones, then we shall continue in the journey with our Lord. Our life does not end, for at the end, we are granted eternal life. Please Lord, forgive me and allow Your peace to fill my heart. May all of us be under Your protection. Thank you for hearing my words. All praise, honor, and glory be unto You, Lord, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit. Thank you, amen.

March 13, 2019

Last night, I had two dreams which stood out. In the first one, I dreamed someone had died, but I was not sure who did. I have several dreams lately where someone has passed on. Death has been on my mind, that may explain some of it.

The second dream was a continuation of a dream I had last week. Last week, I had a dream where there was four or five us taking a trip to see some relatives. We had stopped and rented a van and I followed behind in the truck. Last night, I was back in that same dream except this time, we were leaving. We had made sure to clean up everything before we left and packed all our stuff for the trip home. As the truck was heading home, the driver almost missed the one gas stop. If he had turned very sharp, we would have gone over the edge of the mountain. As we continued, one of the guys said he was not going to return the rental truck. He was going to let it set and they can pick it up there. I reminded him if they had to come and get it, they would probably charge him an additional 3-4 hundred dollars. He decided to return the truck. The dream ended with me getting in my truck and heading for home.

What was strange, I dreamed the first part of the trip last week, but this time, same dream when we were headed home. It was almost like we went there to prepare for an event and since we were done, we headed back home. Mike, Uncle JR., and two other men were there on the trip home. What amazed me was the time span between the two dreams.

March 17, 2019

Occurrence: Yesterday, the wife and I had talked about our son. We have been together as a family unit for 11 years and as a couple for 13. She never wanted to talk about Hunter and his final days. She admitted to her friend on the phone, that she has always known what was going to happen, but she has been in a state of denial. She knew from the very start what the doctors' diagnoses was going to be. She did endless hours of research on Duchenne's disease. The end has always been a subject that she never wanted to talk about.

For the last three weeks, Hunter has had to be on the ventilator off and on through the daytime. He sleeps with it at night, but until recently, did not use it much during the day. Traci has been afraid of using the ventilator during the day because she knows the outcome. With a ventilator, if a former healthy person goes on one for 24 hours a day, their lifespan is only about a year. Hunter's congestion is increasing with thick secretions coming up.

I told her that she is the reason that Hunter has survived this long. It is her attention and devotion, plus the medical equipment, that has prolonged his life. I reminded her of what the Holy Spirit told me three weeks ago. I told her the Lord is preparing both of us for the end. She said she did not know how she could handle it if this was his time to pass. I simply told her we will make it. Yes, it is going to be sad, but we need to understand, he will no longer be in pain. He will be walking and laughing. She stopped talking then, but later she talked some more. She came over to where I was sitting and leaned over with her hands on the table. I put my hand on top of hers and told her, we will get through this together. She asked me if I was going to leave. I told her no, I am here. I reminded her she will also have to bury me. The only difference with me, she will just get a phone call. Before she answers the phone, her spirit will already know. She said she could not stand to lose both of us right now. I told her I still have time left, but she will make it.

This is the first time that I have seen her prepare for the end. Like she said, it is so hard to watch a loved one slowly get worse. I agree, the hardest thing is the slow progression and seeing the hurt in Hunter's eyes. I told her what Hunter had told me about Jesus coming and taking him home. How he smiled and said yes, it will be alright if the Lord comes. I also told her, two years ago, Hunter would not talk like that. Now he will. He is tired of hurting. He is ready for this life to be over. He knows this is not the end. We will pass over and the pain and confinement of the disease will never happen again.

She is preparing herself with the Lord as her guide. In no way, is this going to be easy. She is slowly getting ready. It is like there is a breakthrough and now she can talk about it openly. I still use guarded conversation. I allow her to come to this in her time, I do not push her. I need to be patient and just be quiet support.

March 22, 2019

Update: Hunter is still hanging there. This week, we have fought congestion extremely bad. His lungs just would not clear up. It seems that the lungs are clearing some, but it is still a fight. The other thing is that at night, his heart rate has been dropping down into the 40s. That has never happened with such frequency. His heart rate alarm keeps going off, starting at about 1 or 2 A.M. and never stops until he finally wakes in the morning. My wife and I get catnaps in between the alarms going off.

Dream: I kept dreaming that I was friends with an older man. He is not much older than me but there is a true friendship between us. He had helped on one occasion and then we were driving around. For some reason, there was an authority figure checking out the vehicles. The one we were in stopped fine, but my truck, maybe we were towing it not sure, slid into the truck we were in. It did not cause any damage and we bumped into the authority figures vehicle. There was no damage at all, just a slight nudge when the vehicles touched.

The one that followed it was someone had me in their sights of a gun. They pulled the trigger and though they had hit me. I was laying down when the shot came. I had seen him and continued to be still. When he relaxed, I bolted for the door. I knew he could not hit a moving target.

These two dreams reflect change coming. The Lord is already going to have things in place for me when the college tries to play their game. The college is going to smirk and feel proud of themselves because they have gotten me where they wanted. During their proudness, I leave and then they will have to scramble because of the situation they put themselves in. Change is coming, I feel it with in my soul. I have very little idea what is coming, I have a thought, but I do not know the depth of the change. Trust in the Lord is all I can say.

March 24, 2019

Earlier this month I had said in two weeks (started to say three but changed it to two), I had to face death. It was 29 days and my friend Bruce passed away. Bruce had not come up to take over for me in class, he came to say goodbye. He had a very good time in the two-hour visit. He helped with the students and we had some time to talk. He left smiling and I had him laughing. Maybe it was him that the Lord said they have anointed. Bruce passed on March 20, 4 weeks after the anointing message.

Bruce had gone to church that night and went and checked on some work he had done earlier on one of the churches air conditioning units. He came back into the sanctuary and fell back with a thud. Other members were trying to talk to him, but they said his eyes were already rolling back into his head. He made it to the hospital and then the family was called in. The doctors had ruled out a heart attack. They believe it may have been a blood clot that had traveled to his lungs. The good thing is that he did not have to suffer. His death was quick. That is all we can ask for. He was one of the five best men I know. I thank the Lord for letting us share 4 ½ years together. Love does not die. Thank you, Father, for the time that you gave me with him. I will see him again in a little while.

I feel this is one of the four events that are coming. Bruce's last sermon was on trials and tribulations that we all must face. I wish I could have been there for it. Trust in the Lord, for it is the Lord who we need to lean on and find shelter in His arms. Please forgive me Lord for my sins and I thank you so much for loving a sinner.

March 28, 2019

Yesterday morning I had a dream. I had started a new job and the office walls were blue. The same color blue that I know is used at the one plant. It was my first day and I had asked about some paperwork. The others there said it had changed. I heard things have changed several times. I went to introduce myself to one of the office ladies and she told me she already knew who I was. For some reason my job had me going out into the workplace to perform some of the duties. The strange part was some of the duties required me to remove my shirt and I was not comfortable with that. Then I found myself back in the office about to go through the office doors, but I had no shirt on. The dream ended there. When I was young, no shirt outside was never a problem. As I have aged, my shirt stays on outside.

I asked Tyler about the dream and he reminded me of John the Baptist. How he baptized people in the river and probably had no shirt on. What he told me was that he felt there was another person or a group of people that I am supposed to help prepare for the times ahead. I told him, yes, I have known that for a long time. With the Lord, we are His servants. We are to do the will of the Father to bring others into the kingdom. The Holy Spirit has already planted the seed, our job is to add some water for growth. Sometimes it is a drop, other times it may be a half a bucket full.

Occurrence: Last evening, I was going through some old messages on the phone at work. I came across a message from Bruce that he had left last fall. The message was four to five months old. He said," Mr. Rick, I do not think I am going to make it tonight." I laughed when I heard it and said no, brother, I do not think you will tonight. I listened to the message three times then I deleted it. It gave me closure on Bruce. I got to listen to his voice one more time and we shared one last laugh together. The Lord knew I needed closure and He made it happen. The right words at the right time.

This morning I had a dream. I was at some event with people all around. There was one person who I had been talking to and they were sad because they knew I had to leave. Other ones there were making gossip as I was leaving. I stopped back by the person's office to share one last time. The last visit helped her, because we share a strong friendship. We are just friends, about the same age, trying to live our lives through all the problems that this world brings to our doorsteps. Just a simple visit to give a little peace to the heart. I think it was just another sign that I am going to change jobs at some point. I have almost completed the tasks for the Lord at my current location. Changing jobs is not about the money or position, it is simply to fill one last mission for the heavenly Father. Thank you, Lord, for your grace and patience. If you will lead the way, I will follow. Let us see what happens.

March 31, 2019

Yesterday, they buried Bruce. Bruce was one of the few people that I trusted in this world. He was always straight with me. One of his famous sayings will always stay with me. "They think they are all that and a bag of chips." It describes the way the world is right now. It is all about self. When I was talking with the Lord, He gave me Matthew 6 and Luke 4. Both describe how the Pharisees and hypocrites offer flattering words, but their heart is far from them. Bruce had often told me about the struggle within his church. How the world has gotten in and certain ones share the word of God, yet they do not follow their own teachings. The Lord was showing me how the church is within all of us. It is not a building. It is the Holy Spirit living in us. We carry the church wherever we go. Bruce is happy and he had a good life.

Dream: This morning I was dreaming I was at the new place of work. They had given another man and me a job to do. It was a rush job and we scrambled to get it completed. We had gotten it done and the other man had asked the manager where he was going to put him permanently. The manager told him they will sit down and have a formal interview. He had my resume in his hand and he looked it over and told me, we are going to find a place for you. I said ok and then I woke up.

The Lord will always prepare a way when His will is to be done. All I can do is trust in Him.

April 2, 2019

Dream: I dreamed the same dream back to back. Our son was leaving. He was a little sad, but he knew it was time for him to take a trip. The next scene, I was sitting by a crystal, clear stream watching the water flow by. I saw my boss shortly after that and I told him I had time to reflect. I was feeling better basically. The next scene, I was at a new job and I was very happy to be there. The people there were very friendly and true to their nature. It was a pleasure to be around those people. The job was in the hills. Extremely pretty country. I woke up smiling. It is although a great sadness is coming, there will be changes after that. My wife was awake, then she put her arm around me. I rubbed her arm just to let her know that I love her. The dream was very peaceful. Peaceful is something I have not had in three weeks.

I know the Lord has a plan. I am not sure of the details. The Lord is so gracious to everyone if we would only trust in Him. He is beyond my own limited comprehension. I love Him so much. Jesus is always there with His love and patience. The Holy Spirit is always there to guide us. We need to search for them and keep the three at the center of our thoughts. Yes, we all will sin. No one is perfect. With all the troubles of this world trusting can be difficult. We should always try to trust in the Lord and things will work out in the long run. Never give up.

Yesterday, a student who had worked with Bruce came in early. We got to talking and he said he had gone to Bruce's wake. He said it was a grand affair. The hearse was the fanciest hearse he had ever seen. Bruce was in tuxedo with a red rose in his lapel. His casket was chrome with Reverend Bruce Ivy Edwards on a plaque on the side. On the end of the casket was another plaque that read let my works stand for me (something to that effect, he could not remember the exact wording). I had every intention of going because I thought of Bruce like one of my brothers. The day of the wake, I just could not go. Every time I saw Bruce, he was always in work clothes or blue jeans. I am glad that I did not see the grand send off because that is not the Bruce I know. I just keep remembering the words, their words are full of flattery, but their heart is far from it. Bruce is happy and I pray for peace for the family. My closure came when I heard the old message on the phone.

The student went on to say how Billy Graham was buried in a simple wooden box with a cross on top of it. I told him what the Lord has been showing me on how if a person is putting their name first and not the Lords, then they are not truly honoring Him. Mr. Graham had touched millions and had helped many out financially. This is one of those teachings that I am still a little confused about. I also remember what the Lord has been showing me, that regardless of the ministry, His words will come through. With the evangelists on television, even the bad ones, His word will still come though. Do not judge for the way we judge so we will also be judged. That is a lesson I am still learning. The words of the Lord are true, and they will come at the right time.

April 6, 2019

I have had a very similar dream three or four times over the last week. There was one or two people who had been playing me for their advantage. I was a pawn in their deceitful game. They thought they had gotten away with it. I was not directly involved but some of my actions were beneficial to them. The dreams ended with me leaving and not returning.

When I was reflecting on the dreams this morning, two things came to my mind. Last year, I told one of my bosses, "If everyone here would just be honest, then this place would be a great place to work." The other thought was about the office of the top boss. Maybe things are going to come to light and major change is fixing to happen. I do not do well with dishonest people.

April 7, 2019

For the fourth time, I dreamed a similar version of the same dream. I was approached to help do something that was not right. I have no idea what is fixing to happen. When the dreams are very near each other over several nights, it is the Holy Spirit giving us insight into some event that is coming. I just pray to stay on the right path.

April 9, 2019

This morning I felt as if I was in the spirit. Another spirit spoke and said, "Mr. Cobalt is going to want you." After this, I started to dream. I had moved to a new place to live. I met a David, May or Mary Ann, and several others. I walked into the pharmacy and the two guys behind the counter were asking me to help. They had a major water leak in the storeroom and maintenance had been unable to get there. When we went into the back, the one guy turned a lever and stopped the water, but then there were small leaks around a decorative fire hydrant. I started to pull some screws out of the leaks and the water stopped. Just then, we heard a cat meow from within the wall. I looked at the manager and told him there was your problem, then I started to laugh. The dream ended there.

I was also seeing myself in a parking lot. I was trying to start my truck in order to leave, but it would not start. I had tried cranking it several times, but it still would not start. I could not leave just yet.

April 10, 2019

This morning, several dreams stood out. I was trying to take a trip again, but I kept running into dead ends. In one of them, a lady was giving a tour of a large ditch. She kept saying that they built this for the water and when the water comes, it will wash all the trash away. They stopped construction on it and now it was just filling up with trash.

In the next dream, I saw many people shaking back and forth. Everybody I saw were shaking. Then I heard a voice and it said, "After the earthquake, then you can leave."

The thing that is constantly with me this morning is that the world's prosperity will soon end. We will experience a great earthquake and it will shake the whole planet. When will these events take place? I have no clue on the timeline.

Ray is on a mission trip right now to anoint the ground for the Lord. It is about abortion and how Jesus will come back. Maybe the Lord is trying to warn more people. I am ready to leave my current job, but if I do, it will come to a dead end or I will be lost. My patience is growing very thin due to several things. Maybe it is my spirit that senses the changings coming and I am getting anxious. These are the times when I need to take a step back and look at the big picture. My perception may be altered at times, but the truth always comes out. This world is on a downward spiral. It is a slow spiral, but a spiral, nonetheless. Just pray and build the relationship with our Father. He is only one we can trust.

April 13, 2019

Last night two dreams stood out. In the first one, someone had given me packets of seeds. There were twenty to thirty packets that I had been given. The packs were a variety of seeds. Many different varieties.

In the second one, Bruce was with me in a truck. I was trying to get out of a tight spot that I was in. I had to maneuver back and forth, a little at a time, to get the truck out of there without damage. I was a little scared, but Bruce was laughing and having a good time. He knew, we could get out and had no worries. I on the other hand, was a little scared because I make the wrong moves. The dream ended there.

April 26, 2019

The last week has been full of events. We had to put our son in the hospital for four days. My wife's uncle passed away on the same day Hunter was admitted. Hunter is still having problems with congestion. An earthquake did occur at Dyersburg, about an hour away as the crow flies.

This morning as I was waking up, I heard "Mom almost died Sunday." I think it was my brother trying to help me prepare. I trust in the Lord and I will wait on him.

May 28, 2019

This last month has had a lot going on, our son came home, but he has fought lungs ever since. Wife has finally agreed that he will never come off the ventilator. That is hard.

Graduation came and left. Several of my students got their certificates.

I had drifted from the Lord but for the last couple of nights, I have been dreaming of coming back home. Last night I dreamed I went back to a protective room. The doors were all made of iron and could not be broken down. I told the others, I am back, and I apologized for my absence. What took me back, they never had a harsh word, they just agreed that I did belong there. We started to prepare for a fight.

What I am sensing in the spiritual world, war is right around the corner. There is a tenseness and anticipation of what is to come. A great battle will soon be fought.

June 9, 2019

Over the last two weeks, one dream has been reoccurring. I am standing in the middle of an empty arena. It is like a horse arena or rodeo. The arena is circular in shape. I was standing beside a man and there was a woman on the other side of the man. We were looking at a map of some sort and the man drew a line with his finger basically dividing the map into thirds. I put my finger on the map and drew an almost identical line. I looked at him and told him I like working with him because he has a good eye for construction and measurements. He was very stoic in nature, a big man. He did not smile, he just continued to look at the map.

All I can figure is that three things are fixing to happen. I have no idea what will take place. Several emotions are surfacing but I need to trust in the Lord. That is the only place I can put my trust.

June 22, 2019

This morning, I dreamed I was getting ready for war to begin. War is very close, and we need to get prepared. I looked around and found a pistol laying in the dirt. The side I was looking at was in good condition. When I picked the gun up and turned it over, the entire backside had rusted into one solid sheet of rust. The gun was not of any use. Guns will not save us, only the Lord can do that.

The other part of the dream showed a man had approached me four different times. He was coming with a smile, but he had a hidden agenda. There was something he wanted me to be a part of, but I did not want anything to do with it. In time, I will find out what the man wanted.

June 25, 2019

Saturday, I got an email from a former student who had taken my class twenty years ago. He did follow up with three additional emails. He was always a good student, and I hope he does not have an agenda attached. Maybe he has a word from the Lord for me or the Lord wants me to share something with him. That is one thing I have learned everything has a reason. If it deals with the Lord, then the reason is simply for the kingdom of heaven. Never turn down a chance to share the word.

June 27, 2019

The former student called today. We talked for about thirty or forty minutes. It turns out, he is in a good place, but he has had some serious issues that he had to work through. There are still several more coming, but he will continue to be strong and face them head on. There were several times where he said he did not want to bother me. He just needed some support. He is a good man, mother is ill, family is turning on each other, but he is focused on the Lord. He has a new job with a ground floor opportunity. If the food chain is successful, he will be happy.

The Lord is there to help all of us, all we need to do is to believe and follow through. Troubles are constant and life is a roller coaster. Ups and downs will always happen. Stay focused on the big picture and peace shall come to you. I am at a point in my life where death seems to be constant. Family, friends, students, and work associates have all contributed to the total number leaving this earth. The only way I stay going is to stay focused. Yes, I am not always focused, but I always return to it.

Don will be alright. Life can be rough at times.

Occurrence: Over the last day and half, the bathroom had been clogged up. I tried boiling water, vinegar and baking soda, and ammonia, but nothing would clear it. I had been asking the Lord would He help me and clear it because I did not want to have to take the drain apart. As I was waking up, all I could think was try the shop vac. I had not thought of that. I did think about clearing it with compressed air, but I do not have the set up for that.

I got the shop vac and within just a couple of tries, the drain cleared. I was very happy because I knew the Lord had provided a way. I thanked the Lord and thanked anybody else that may have been guiding me. The Lord does speak, learning to listen is the hard part.

July 3, 2019

For the last two weeks, I have been having the same dream every night. I am in an argument with someone. I never could make out the face, the whole figure was just grey. There was another person off to my left about twenty feet behind me. There was also a third one, about twenty or thirty feet behind the second one. You could tell they wanted to argue or fight with me, but they were waiting to see what happened with the first argument. There were no physical blows, it just seemed like it was a heated argument. I was not moving in my decision and it did not matter what the other person might say. Do the right thing, not the greedy thing.

This morning right before I woke up, I was another dream, although this one seemed more like we were in the spirit. My wife came to me and told me he was smoking inside the house. When I went in, my brother Mike was sitting at the kitchen table with two or three papers in front of him and a pen on the table. He was smoking, but what caught my attention, was his expression. It was as though he had to deliver a message to me, but it was not good news for the family. A very concerned look with sadness involved.

This may have to do with the folks. There are three people that live by them who want to make sure they got their inheritance plus some. It is sad to see that in any family. Mike knows that when the folks pass, the so-called family that we knew, will no longer exists. Everything will just be memories. That is the sad part.

July 5, 2019

Update: The former student emailed me again. His mom passed. It turns out, he lost his home due to members of his family. Currently he is homeless, moved off, lost his new job before he could start, and trying to figure out what to do. All I could tell him was do not give up. Trials and tribulations will come to all of us. In this world though, one of the biggest trials is to see how people can really be. It is all about ones' self and greed. That is why this world cannot stand much longer.

We never know when the Lord will call us to help. Just listen for His soft instruction.

July 28, 2019

Over the last three weeks, several things have taken place. The former student I have not heard back from. I pray that Don does not do something extreme.

There have been several deaths of people that my wife and mother in law knew. I have been seeing a lot of feathers over the last three weeks. What was strange was that the feathers were not white in color, just feathers from different birds. I have seen white feathers over the last two days though. It just struck me that the multi-colored feathers represented friends and white represented close friends or family. I do not how accurate that is, but that is what I am seeing.

My right ear went to ringing very loudly and then I heard a scream. I mean it was like a spirit was screaming. It was not yelling. It was a terrified scream. I have never heard that pitch or tone from heaven ever. That instance touched something deep in my soul. They say if your right ear is ringing, it is a spirit trying to communicate with you. I do not know.

Then I had to take our cat to the vet. She had broken her pelvis and was dragging her hind end instead of walking. The vet has had her for a week, we call every night to check on her. The vet has been very good at returning our phone calls and keeping us abreast of her progress.

Over the last three or four days, the Holy Spirit has impressed on me to study the nine fruits of the Holy Spirit and the nine spiritual gifts that are given by grace. Not everyone receives the gifts, but everyone has access to the fruits. My understanding is simply, the more we try to follow the fruits, the more gifts we are granted.

The nine fruits are: "But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control." (Galatians 5:22)

The nine spiritual gifts are: "But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to each one for the profit of all: for to one is given the word of wisdom through the Spirit, to another the word of knowledge through the same Spirit, to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healings by the same Spirit, to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another discerning of spirits, to another different kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues. But one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one individually as He wills." (1 Corinthians 12:7-11)

These have helped me. With the screaming tone and the study that followed, it is making me look at things with a little more kindness and understand I need to correct some of my ways. The one fruit that is hard for me is joy. I have lost the joy for mans' world. I still enjoy the animals, nature, and my students. They are my saving grace. I still have things to work out.

August 2, 2019

There were several occurrences over the last couple of days. When I was watching Ray do the 2019 Vatican Abortion prayer walk, the Lord had me notice the pavers that were used at the Vatican. There were probably 1-2 million pavers that had had been used. They were just the simple, 5 x 5, pavers. The Lord impressed on me that the total number of pavers were only a fraction of the number of children who had been aborted in the United States. At one point, I could see the bodies all laying there in the spirit and it was a terrible sight. They appeared as an endless sea of bodies and that was very sad. The Lord said that if women would dress modestly, then there would not be as many abortions. Women should dress as a woman of God, forsaking the lures of this world.

When Ray was walking around Jerusalem, the Lord told him how a beautiful woman holds her own beauty as her idol and that they cannot be trusted. The Lord also told Ray that we are facing the final war. Israel and France will go dark first, then the rest of the world will be placed in darkness.

The one dream that I had where I was talking with one person and two others were silently watching came to pass at work last week. The old welding instructor came back, and one can tell there is friction in the welding department between him and the other two instructors. The one lady who was the job placement coordinator, gave her notice and she was cleaning out her office yesterday.

I was glad that she is leaving. She is a very pretty lady and I do call her my friend, but it was just some of her actions that made myself question things. Nothing major, but you could tell the evil spirits were working on her. She says she goes to church every Sunday but at the same time, she flatly refused to read any of the words that the Lord has given me. I hope she finds her path. The college is full of lies and games of greed and I am glad she was able to leave that behind. I wish she finds the Lord with her heart and has the desire to live for Him and not herself.

Our cat has been at the vet for two weeks with a broken pelvis. The vet had mentioned amputation of her left leg, but he was not ready to make that decision. I asked him since the cat was getting feisty with him and his staff, let me bring her home and allow me to work with her. She is 100% daddies' girl. He laughed and said he thought that was a wonderful idea.

When I was in a 3 and ½ hour meeting yesterday before I had talked with the vet, I was sitting there looking at the clouds through the window. Yes, it was not a very interesting meeting. I was talking with the Lord and I asked Him, if our cat was going to come home, would He show me a cat in the clouds. Within just a minute or so, a cats' face appeared mixed in with the clouds. You could tell the eyes and the top of the snout. It was a very beautiful sight. I smiled ear to ear and thanked the Lord. That night is when I talked to the vet about her coming home.

The Lord gave me a piece of pure joy. I had not felt that in a long time. The Lord is always around us and He reads the heart. The one thing that I do know is that the Lord feels our love and that is stronger than anything else in the world. When we pray from the heart, and our love comes through, events will happen. Small moments are the important things in life. Thank you, Father, for never turning your back on me. I am a sinner Lord and I ask for your forgiveness. Thank you, and please watch over all your children.

August 6, 2019

Occurrence: Sunday, I went out to visit the folks. They are both in their 80's, still getting around and working in the yard except for they move a lot slower now. The one thing that got me was how dad dominated all the conversation and it was "I did this, I bought this", it was so sad. When I got home and checked my emails, The Lord had said how people are always patting each other on the back and how people will basically break their own arm, patting themselves on the back. He said they are far from him because in the Lords eyes, they are disgusting. They never give credit to the Lord and all they do is to think about themselves. All about self and they constantly look for the praise from others.

Our cat is home, not doing well. Her pelvis is healing good, but her stomach is upset to the point where she will not eat. I went to the bedroom to get my wallet and order some enemas from the internet, but the Lord impressed upon me, do not order anything. I am not sure why, but I raised my arms and told the Lord okay. I turned and walked away. We are giving her some mineral oil to help her pass stool. Even though she is just a cat, the Lord is still hearing our prayers. If she passes, that is ok. The thing that is hard, just like with our son, they are suffering to some degree and there is very little we can do.

College has started again, and the same old games are already visible. We had a former instructor come back and now he and the other instructors in that department are at odds with each other. It is very plain that they do not see things on the same page. The one that came back thinks he is a gift to this world. He has lied to my face and thrown me under the bus on more than one occasion. I am cordial, but my conversation is very limited. He acted like I should be glad to see him. I do not hide my emotions very well. I do not believe in that. Whether someone likes me or not, is not my concern. I am not here to please them. I am here for the Lord. What you see with me is what you get. Good or bad, it is what it is. I will help anyone who is willing to help themselves but leave the ego at the doorstep. I am not bashful and there are times when I do not hold my tongue.

Many times, we find ourselves in a trying event, but the Lord is there for our support. He will never leave those who truly love Him with their heart. Do not give up, just keep trusting and peace will find you.

August 10, 2019

Yesterday, our cat passed. She was a multi-colored girl with a slight attitude. What happened Thursday, still leaves me wondering. I was outside and I felt the spirits telling me to go inside. They were saying "hurry up." As I walked around the corner, Boo was sitting up. Within two minutes, I witnessed her having a heart attack. Body went rigid, blank stare, and then she collapsed. When she collapsed, I was able to grab her and gently lay her down. I am not sure why the Lord wanted me to see it.

I was seeing multi-colored feathers for about two weeks when all this occurred. Boo had a lot of different colors. I am not sure if the two are related. For the last two or three days, I have been seeing white feathers. Pure white feathers that are so beautiful.

We trusted in the Lord for His help with our cat. I honestly believe that He did ease her final pain. Lessons come in many forms. Please forgive me Father and help us learn your ways to a deeper degree.

From the beginning of this year to now, we have lost family members, close personal friends, and friends of the family. There have been over 9 deaths and the year is still not over.

I was thinking about the college and the Lord impressed on me to remember the Holy Spirits fruits. Forgiveness is the one that stands out. To have peace, gentleness, and self-control, one must forgive.

August 28, 2019

Dream: I was being careful looking around the ground. I knew something was there and I was being careful in my search. Just then, I saw a large, diamondback snake starting to emerge. The snake was not after me, but it came out from hiding and was looking around. I went inside to get the hoe in order to kill the snake. I never could find the hoe although I searched all the places where I keep it.

Another dream was that one of my nephews came over to the house, but the dream ended before I found what he needed from me.

Occurrence: I had to sub for a high school instructor for several days. The students were different. Attention span is literally 10-15 minutes and then they started to talk to each other. I had gotten upset last week because with college, the instructor does not have many issues with the students. I was asking the Lord for help and He impressed upon me, take them to the lab and give them an electrical exercise to complete. It worked beautiful. For the most part, all of them participated in the project and I could tell, I had earned their respect.

The Lord then impressed upon me to start a mentor program with some of the students. The program is strictly voluntary on the instructor and students' part. Over 80% of the students have no clue what they are going to do after they graduate. I went to two of the directors and had gotten their approval. I have not talked to the Dean about it, but I do not think he will have a problem with it. My class will be a pilot program and see how it goes. There is a reason for the Lord wanting me to do this. I did ask one class if they went to church, and only one said that they did. You could tell, not many have spent time learning who the Lord is and how much love He has for all of us. This will be interesting.

August 29, 2019

Occurrence: Last night during class, we took a break. When I went outside the one instructor who has a mocking spirit, was outside and talking about the new vice president of instruction. He was making fun of the new man because of his military background. He was trying to get me to say something about Keith, but I kept my mouth shut. The sad thing is, he was in the exact position as the snake was in my most recent dream. He has gotten me twice, there will not be a third time.

Everybody liked the idea of the mentor program. I will be heading the pilot program, and maybe more will join. Like I said, it will be interesting.

September 5, 2019

This morning I had several dreams back to back. In the first one, someone was trying to manipulate me, but it did not work out well for them. I simply told them that will never happen.

Then I was dreaming of a square shape, like a flat box kept coming down from the air and was setting things right. The rest of that dream is not very clear.

In the last dream, I was on my way to heaven. I could see the beautiful sky and a vast whiteness ahead of me. I was so tired that I knew it was going to be a struggle to complete the journey. Then I found myself on an escalator going up. I reached out and grabbed the moving rail and it pulled me up with no effort on my part. It was such a relief grabbing onto the rail. I knew the Lord had sent help for me to complete the journey. Never give up, because if we truly love the Lord, He will send us what we need whether we ask for it or not. Like a loving father, he watches over His children.

September 10, 2019

Last night I had a dream where I was jumping over a railing. The first two jumps were small jumps. The third time, I had jumped over a rail and landed on the ground thirty feet below. Just as I landed, I jumped right back up about fifteen feet. This time I had sprained my knee just a little. It was nothing major and I was able to continue my path. This dream left me puzzled until I went to work today.

Everything was going well and then I had to turn in some papers to my Dean. He started to fuss about the mentor program. He said I did wrong when I sent the information to the President and several others who are above him. They called the Dean for details, but he had none. I told him, he has been copied on every email and last week when he was passing out the latest assignment, I asked him if he had a chance to look at the new program. He said he did, and it was okay. I then explained the three goals of the program and gave him a quick overview. He never said, but I think he was glad that now he was in the loop.

The dream became reality.

The program is constantly gaining attention and many positive comments have come out of it. This is to help high school students. They are human nature in the rawest form. As adults, we learn to multi- task. As a young adult, we tend to lose focus. One of the students was told by the Director of the high school, as he heard it, that he will never amount to anything. It hurt him so bad, that he even tried to change his schedule yesterday. I just listened to him and then I told him do not believe what others tell you what you cannot do. I have always welcomed someone telling me it cannot be done. I simply look at them and say, sure it can.

Maybe this is a part of why the Lord had impressed upon me, the value of a mentor program. Listening can do great things. The Lord constantly expands our comfort zone and He will always provide us with support.

September 14, 2019

Occurrence: Yesterday, I asked the Lord if He would allow it, would He show me what the mark of the beast is going to be. The technology that follows is already in place and you can verify it with your own research. Do a quick search of "living cell computer" and see what shows up.

We have been living in a mechanical world that is quickly being digitalized. Robotics, self-driving vehicles, retailers that have no cashiers, automated farms, and a cash less society. Our social security numbers have been our identification, but that information is not secure. With 3-d printers, the ability to print a working electrical circuit on paper (or anything else) is now a reality. The computers are in the process of change. We have quantum computers which are capable of processing millions of equations in a fraction of the time that our current computers can do.

The other one is bio computing. It is a bio chip that will be used. We have heard it as nano technology, changing things on the molecular level. Hybrid seeds and cloning are two examples. They have developed a living, processing chip. They have figured out how to incorporate live cells onto a printed circuit and they can print it out with a 3-d printer, but it goes deeper. They will promote it as a medical benefit and convenience for the average person. Everything is being automated and we keep hearing the term, stay connected. The 5-G network will have the ability to connect everything.

The bio chip is not the grain of rice that the current chip is in our pets and thousands of people already. The rice chip technology is twenty years old. Just like a tattoo, the ink or cells in a bio chip, goes deep into the skin and can be tied into the blood stream and the nervous system. With sensors and quantum computers, they can change our DNA. They say they are coding, that is the term that is used for changing DNA. With our society being automated, it will be out of necessity that the world will accept the mark. In the Bible, the Lord says the seven-year reign of the evil one will be cut short, because if they are not, no man will be able to withstand the mark.

In Matthew chapter 24, Jesus himself is telling us that we will have to see earthquakes, wars and rumors of wars, famine, and pestilence before the rapture comes. We are already seeing all of this. We must be tested in our faith, but even with nuclear war, there will be a great revival. Many people will turn back to the Lord, but many others will trust in man. Ask the Lord to show the truth to you and see what you find out.

September 19, 2019

Last night, I was dreaming I was watching a volcano that was starting to spew ash. I told whoever was with me, that we had to leave right now. Just as were leaving, the top of the volcano blew off and hit the ground where I was standing. I did not get hurt, but some of the smoke from the debris did touch me. There were several other dreams about me moving or reorganizing. I could not really understand them.

The volcano, I understand. I was smoking on campus last night and one of the bosses did see me smoking, sitting in my own truck. She wanted to say something, but when she realized it was me, she turned away quick and stomped back into the building. I guess some chewing is ahead of me. Not bad chewing, but something will be said. They like to fuss about the little things but then completely overlook others or what they personally do. Life on this earth is not what the Lord designed it to be.

September 21, 2019

Update: Yesterday, I did hear that the big boss fussed at another class and their instructor for making a mess in the parking lot. I never did see him.

Last night, I had a very similar dream to ones that I have been having lately. I am still working at the college, but I am packing for a business trip. This dream was a little clearer. All I can think is that I will be guest speaker at several events. What the subject matter will be is beyond me.

September 30, 2019

Over the last week or two, I have had several dreams about the same empty arena that I have had in the past. I never could get the meaning of the empty, brown arena. Last week, I dreamed I was standing in a metal platform with sides that were about one foot high.

This morning, I was again dreaming of the emptiness. This time, I was looking in my shop, and the shop had been cleaned out. There was nothing in it. Everything was gone.

The wood shop has been my arena. I have made many things that people are still using to this day. I always enjoyed my woodworking. I have made just about everything I ever wanted to make out of wood. I have built all kinds of furniture, tables, shelves, steps, countertops, scroll art, and even a wooden chain just to name a few things.

I am not sure, but I feel there is a move coming and change will happen. When this will happen, I have no idea.

It is the not knowing and little patience on my part that is the hardest part.

October 1, 2019

Last night when I was talking with the Lord, I had asked him what house He has for us next. I then saw the house in a vision or spirit, it was a tan house, small front entrance with a door and some sort of side entrance. It was not big, just a small, grandma house, nothing fancy.

I had been wondering whether to build a house or buy a smaller one when it comes time for us to move. With the shop being completely empty in a previous dream, I think we are supposed to buy one. Our son is slowly getting worse. Lately, his oxygen levels are falling to 89-91, even with the respirator. Normally it stays around 96-97. A lot of congestion, it is a fight constantly to keep his airways clear.

Dream: I was in a tree with a bow, doing some hunting. I saw a male lion start swimming across the water towards me. I climbed higher but the lion kept coming. The lion had managed to crawl up one or two branches, but he could never reach me. I was trying to kick him off, but I could not quite reach him. I woke up with my leg slamming down on the side of the bed, still trying to kick the lion off. It is funny to me that I woke myself up kicking the bed.

October 3, 2019

Our son passed yesterday afternoon. The best that we can figure is that an artery had burst in his lungs. It was over quick. My wife, mother in law, and myself have cried to the point our eyes are hurting. He was 26 and he was our life.

Before I left for work, I had gone into his room several times more than what I normally did on the days I had to work. Before I left the house, the Lord led me to 1st Samuel, Chapter 3. The chapter talks about how the Lord called Samuel three times and Samuel had thought it was his boss. His boss told him, the next time the Lord calls for you, answer him. With this passage, the Lord was trying to tell me He was calling Hunter home. I never picked up on it.

On the drive to work, I had asked the Lord several times, if this is it, please take Hunter quick. I had no idea, 4 hours later was the time. Hunter was in good spirits, laughing and making jokes when I left the house earlier. Today, we make the final arrangements.

The Lord is always there for His children. He speaks to us in so many ways. We need to learn how to listen. I know Hunter went straight to heaven. With Duchenne's, he has been bedridden for the last seventeen years. I told the wife several times, he will come back to her in her dreams one last time. He did not get a chance to say goodbye, but I know the Lord will allow him to speak to his mom and let her know he is okay. The only thing we take out of this world into the next is our love. Love is the binding force of heaven. True love will never end. Goodnight Ernie. I was Bert and he was my Ernie.

We had a routine and I need to add this to bring a smile. Every night, after we got ready to go to sleep, we always had our man time. My wife would start to talk, Hunter would cut his eyes at her, and then I would tell her, this is mans' time. She would chuckle and leave the room. We ended every night with Love you, make a farting sound, because he would never say love you or call anybody by their name except his cousin Dalton. It was love, farting noise response from him, and then I would tap him on his arm or leg and say prayers. He would respond like Austin Powers, yea baby. I would respond with always. The very last thing we said was always goodnight Ernie.

October 4, 2019

Yesterday, we had to make final arrangements and the house had so many visitors, I thought I had installed a revolving door. My wife is doing okay, but both of us are still processing everything.

Today, some more visitors, and I saw my wife smile and laugh. That was good. She is a very strong person. She had asked me several times, what are we going to do. I told her we are going to make it. Now, she has a choice to make, either live or give up. My wife will live and give back. That is her nature. I am proud that we have been together for thirteen years. I laugh, if she can put up with me, then she can handle anything.

October 5, 2019

The main thing that gets us is the fact that the house is so quiet. No machines, no tv, just silence.

The Lord showed us that He is with us. Today, I got an approval letter for early retirement from the trucking days. It is only 150 dollars. Nothing to brag about, but it will pay a bill. It is the little things like this, that is an example of how the Lord talks to us. Why did it come today? I love the Lord, that is all I can say.

October 6, 2019

Occurrence: Yesterday, Mr. John had stopped by. He was like a grandpa to Hunter. He told my wife that many people do not believe in spirits, but he does. He had two different loved ones that came back to him after they had passed. That was a confirmation from the Lord that Hunter will be allowed to come back to his mom.

The other occurrence happened this morning. Hunter was crazy about Jimmy Fallon. He really liked the show and recorded it every night. My mother in law and myself were standing by Traci as she looked over her Facebook. Traci said look, Jimmy Fallon has sent me a friend request. It was from him, his personal page. Mom hit her on the arm and said, see, Hunter is trying to tell you he is alright. That was the only time this morning, that all three of us were right beside each other. Do not miss the little things. Those are the ones that count.

Another occurrence happened. The one stray dog that we have been taking care of was on his deathbed. When I saw him, I went out and talked to him. He was still breathing and asked the Lord to either heal him or please take him. I also told the Lord I cannot handle any more deaths right now.

I went out again, talked to him and he looked up at me twice and let out a small cry. I told him it was alright for him to leave. I told him, do not worry, I will take care of you. It was shortly after that, is when I started to dig his grave. It took three rounds of digging, to get through that dirt. It has not rained much in a long time.

I walked out on the third time. He was still breathing barely, so I went out to finish digging. While I was digging, my folks pulled up. The dog had died right before they pulled up. I had my back to the house, so I did not see them pull up. When they saw me, they hollered across the yard at me. I turned around and mom was first, with a smile and sadness on her face. Dad was behind her about ten feet and he was looking very somber. I finished the grave and then went to talk with them.

The position that my folks were in, was the exact same position as in the dream that I had about them around the Christmas holidays. In that dream, I had been shown a red present, with both the folks standing near it. I recorded that dream on June 25, 2018.

When I talked to mom, she was having a hard time remembering some things of the past. She is not doing well. We had a good visit and when we were leaving, mom told me that she wished she had been able to come over earlier. I looked at her and told her she was here with me. She said she better be. She is always with me.

Digging the grave and the folks standing like they were, is the Lord trying to tell me what is fixing to happen. I do not know, but my spirit says there is a connection. I just ask the Lord, please do not let her suffer. I saw it in her face. She is tired. Lord, only You can get me through what is coming. I am not scared, but I know you will provide the help I need at the time. Thank you, Lord, please forgive me for my discretions. Father, I love you and I thank you. Lord Jesus, please dance with our son. Thank you, Holy Spirit for always being there. Thank you.

October 7, 2019

Occurrence: I had been listening to some of Hunters favorite songs and just letting my mind rest. I had played seven or eight songs and then I asked Hunter is there a song that he would like me to play. I asked him that twice, then my words changed, and I felt like I was in the spirit. The question changed without me thinking. I then asked him what is the best thing about heaven so far? I asked him that several times very fast. What I wrote next is "walking with Jesus". That is all that was said. I could not see him, but I could sense a spirit surrounded by a whiteness. I know it was Hunter that answered me.

October 8, 2019

Occurrence: I told my wife this morning about the latest occurrence with walking with Jesus. She looked at me and smiled. She wanted to believe it. About thirty minutes later, she went in and pulled up Facebook. The fifth or sixth picture that came up was a young man walking with Jesus. The Lord is here.

Occurrence: My wife went into Hunters room and told me it was so bright. Brighter than any time that she could remember. She thought a light was on. The signs are all around.

October 9, 2019

I need to add this. This journal is about how the Lord talks to all of us. I feel the Lord has allowed me to add a personal story. I think because it is out of love.

Hunter was twelve years old when his mom and I started to talk. I met him shortly after his thirteenth birthday. He did not have any medical equipment and still played video games. There was not a game that I could beat him at. Hunter always smiled and grinned when he beat me.

At fifteen, he had to have spinal fusion surgery. The wife and I were married in the Lords eyes, but the four of us had not started to live together. They ended up putting two metal rods down the entire length of his back. His lung collapsed, had to be on a ventilator, and was coma induced for almost three months. The hospital was tough on his mom. Traci never left his side his entire life and this was not going to be the first. She stayed with him and never left.

On October 20, 2008 he was released from the hospital. Hunter and Traci came to a new home, a new man living with them, and medical equipment.

The three months in, costs Hunter the ability to play video games. He could still use the remote but that too, stopped later. He was on the ventilator at night, not during the day, just night.

His smile and laughter never faded. Duchenne's is hard to describe unless you had lived with it. The hardest part was watching his body slowly get worse. A little more each month. That was hard.

Several more hospital stays for congestion and flu, but he always came home. Multiple visits back and forth to the doctors. The cough assist and ventilator became the norm. The congestion in his lungs became a daily routine. His smile never faded. Through all of this, it never faded. He asked me a couple of months ago, why is the congestion getting worse. I told him it is the Duchenne's. He looked at me and said yes. Then within thirty seconds, we were laughing together.

I used laughter and goofiness, to give him a break from whatever he was feeling. I could make that man laugh. Told him so many tall tales, I cannot even remember them all. Told him once, I taught Vince Gill how to sing. I told him how Reba was a blonde and I was the one that told her she should change her hair to red. I told him how I helped Dolly get started in the business, but then when I called her on the phone, she hung up on me. How rude was that. He just laughed and smiled.

On his last birthday, I told him a whole slew of folks called him to wish him a happy birthday. I told him Reba, Dolly, Alan, and Ariana had called. He told me I did not talk to them and I insisted that I did. I do not think he believed me, but he was sure laughing about it.

October 20,2019 will be his memorial service. Eleven years to the day, that he came home to a new life. He has started his new life again, this time with our Lord Jesus.

October 10, 2019

Occurrence: My mother in law and myself were standing on the front porch talking. I had just finished telling her about the "walking with Jesus" occurrence when a dove flew down and landed at the bottom of the steps. She just stayed there and looked at us. She was only four feet away. Mom said that the Bible talks about doves. I told her yes, it does. Mom agreed that was a sign. That was a nice moment. The dove stayed there for about twenty minutes.

October 11, 2019

Last night when I was saying my prayers, I asked the Lord to show me which one of us will bury the other. This the dream that I was given.

I was standing in the big, empty arena again. Same dull brown color and completely empty. This time Traci and I were in the middle of the dirt ring. She wanted to take my truck and I told her no, take your ride. It was an SUV with the side glass busted out. The window was taped up, but it struck me odd that the glass was broken.

Traci jumped in her vehicle and went quick out of the arena. She had the dust rolling coming off her tires. I was left standing in the middle, watching her leave and smiling as she drove so fast. I knew why she was in a hurry. She was rushing to see Hunter.

Lord, please watch over us, for all of us need your strength.

October 16, 2019

Last night two dreams stood out. In the first one, I was at the college mixing something and sharing it with others. It was a two-part mixture and I have no idea what it was.

The other dream, one of the instructors had gotten in a fight with one of the high school students. I did not see it, just heard about it. There was a third part, but I cannot remember what it was.

I went to school Monday, but I had to cut the evening class short. Today has been two weeks since Hunter has passed, and I am going to school. I do not want to go and if it was not for my students, I would not go in. I need to keep pushing. It is not easy.

October 17, 2019

Occurrence:

Yesterday I was worried about how we are going to make it. In my emails, there was one that the company Bruce saw me working at, wants me to do some training for them. This will be interesting.

When I went to school, the one student who just started with the company, and I were talking. He said the upper boss is Colem.,. I had a dream earlier about talking to a Mr. Cobalt (was not clear on the last name). They may be tied together.

October 23, 2019

Last night as I was lying in bed, a vision came. I was thinking about the oldest brother but then something changed. My mom's face appeared before me. She was smiling, very happy, and she did not have one wrinkle in her face. Her complexion was beautiful. She appeared to be in her late twenties or early thirties. Then I heard two words. Mom died. I think it is my brother who is trying to share with me.

It is 8:18 A.M. and I have not received any news. I know her time is short. I am okay with that. She raised a lot of kids and she showed the family what true love is. If this is her time, then yes, I will miss her, but at the same time I will rejoice knowing she is with my brother and our son.

The Lord often shows me things, but very seldom does He give me a specific date. He shows me the seasons when things will take place and I will trust in the Lord to get me through. We just had our son's memorial. Lord, I am yours. I know you will be there, and I know you will get me through all of this. Thank you, Father, thank you Jesus, and thank you Holy Spirit. My strength comes from the three of You.

October 25, 2019

Occurrence: Yesterday, Tyler came in for a visit. He had a totally different look about him. He quit running from the Lord and now he is answering Him. When he left, I asked him what message does he have for me? He told me he did not want to tell me, but I insisted. He said the Holy Spirit said, "His purpose has been fulfilled. Now he is comforting his wife. His days are short on this earth."

I replied, I already know that. He went to the door, stopped and came back. He said, "Not all deaths are easy."

November 11, 2019

The last couple of weeks have been hard on the family. This morning, I asked the Lord if I was going to work for the new company or if I am just going to be training for them. This is the dream that followed.

I was walking toward the training class, but my right arm was only about one foot in total length. My left arm was normal size, but the left was short. What I felt was that I am going to be training for them when the Lord takes me home. We will not even be halfway through the training when I leave this earth. The college will have to scramble to finish the training.

The only question that I have left is how many others will I see pass before I do? Time will tell.

November 17, 2019

I have had several dreams over the last couple of nights and they all shared a similar theme. I have two more events that I must be a part of. The other one is this is the last semester teaching at the college. I have no idea of the time frames and it is not clear what the events will be.

November 18, 2019

Last night, I had two dreams. Before I dreamed them, around 330-400, I saw a bright white light in the spirit. It was a beautiful light.

In one dream, I was looking at a maze that I took represented my life. I was almost done but there were two things I need to do. This time though, I felt like I had help and it all worked out fine.

In the other dream, a female relative approached me with a forged document. She was trying to get more out of the estate. The letter did not go very far, and it was deemed as a fake. She knew it was fake and she had no grounds for argument.

November 21, 2019

This morning I had two dreams. Both dreams were about preparing me for the next event to come. In the first one, I was getting together two guns and ammo. In the second one, I was just finishing up some business. I feel I was getting prepared to stand my ground and all will work out for me to finish the business end of it.

November 23, 2019

Last night two dreams stood out. In the first one, I was dealing with some personal issues and in the second, I was in the life maze that I have dreamed before. In both cases, I was holding a small thin stick. I was talking with the wife and then I was looking at the time I have left. What came through was to use gentleness. I had been worried on accomplishing certain things before I leave. Use gentleness and soft words. Basically, relax and things will get done. Okay.

December 6, 2019

This morning, one dream stood out. I was standing in a triangle on the ground and I was digging a hole on the one corner. On the other two holes, I knew I would have to dig them also. The holes represented three more life changing events that are coming in my life. The next burial is very close, that is why I was already digging. The triangle showed me that all of this is under the Lord's protection. The Lord is there and will be there to help me. The triangle was only four or five feet long on each side. What I feel is that there will be only a small amount of time between the events. Just enough time for one event to settle and then here comes the next one. All I can do is to trust. Trust and love are all that I have left.

December 8, 2019

For the last five nights, I have had the same or almost the same dreams. Last night as I was going to sleep, I asked the Lord if He would allow it, would He give me some understanding and remember the dreams. This is what happened.

I was dreaming about the second event to come. What was special was that everything was all white. The Lord was showing me that He is in control of the second event. The event had taken place and now there were certain people who wanted to claim their share of the inheritance and possibly more. When they brought it to the event, there were two others and I, who shot them down quick. They wanted their reward, but their reward has already been given to them.

The second event followed very quickly after the first one. The thing was though, this event was all in red. I mean there was red everywhere. What took me back was that the event happened so close together and the color was that of fresh blood. It stopped there. I think I know what it means but I will not speculate on it.

December 10, 2019

A couple of night ago I had dreamed of a man sitting at a rusty table. He was as rusty as the table was. He was trying to bring a complaint against me, but when he stood up to speak, two men who were standing on both sides of him, put their hands on his shoulders and he sat back down.

Update: The dream above happened over the weekend. The one man brought some complaints to the President against me. He told my Dean and my Dean called me in. There was no merit in the complaint, and we invited the man to come sit in class and see what we do.

This morning I was dreaming about two female polar bears. As the bears approached, they were very white and innocent looking. In their eyes though they held hatred. I told the person who was with me that we had to leave because the bears were looking to destroy me. They wanted to kill me. When the doors got shut on the bears and they could not get through it, they became very angry and caused their kids to turn against the family. All I know is a fight is coming and someone will lose. Thank you, Lord for the warnings. Thank you.

December 12, 2019

Last night I had a flood of dreams. In one, there is a fight coming, but it will not last long. Yes, anger will but the word exchange will not. In another one, I was standing back watching some people moving the house furnishings. I was not actively helping, but I was almost like an observer. Like the Lord says just trust in Him and it will work out. That is all I have.

December 21, 2019

The night before last, I woke up around 3-4 hearing the word phone.

Last night I kept having the same dream about seven or eight times. I was with some people and I was showing them how to complete the last piece together. It was a white tube, heavenly white, and I was showing the others how to put the end on it. We were finishing up some last details.

The other dream showed me that I will not have time to build anything on the new house. I had drawn up some plans about a shop and sitting area combination that I would like to build if the new house does not already have a shop. I need to put my faith and trust in the Lord and not in my own desires.

Occurrence: We had gone out to the folks' house today. Mom is having some issues. When we got home, I was sitting in the garage and my brothers spirit showed up. I felt him more than I saw him. I did see something, and I know that it was him. He then told me, "We are preparing to take her." I told him that was fine for she deserves to be happy and worry free. In time, we will see.

December 23, 2019

This morning I dreamed two different times about going down a road. In the one, as I topped the hill, the road on other side was covered with water. There was a big curve ahead under the water and you could not tell where the road was. The other part, I turned a corner and again the road was covered in water. The water was only about four inches over the road, but I did not try to go through it. In the last section of the dream, my one brother was standing behind me as we were going through a small hallway.

These may represent the lake where my folks live, I am not sure.

December 25, 2019

The night before it, I was dreaming that I was putting a lid on two tubular shapes coming from the ground that were illuminated. Two small cylinders that emitted a small beam of light.

This morning, I had several dreams, and this is the order of those dreams. They started with me packing some clothes for a trip. Then I was getting some money together to take with me. Then I saw a large disc mounted in the ground. The disc was about four feet across. Then I saw an owl. It was a small, barn owl.

These were the final services. Note: My mom had raised a small owl at one time, and she loved that bird.

Occurrence: I was talking to mom earlier and she told me about a star that she has been seeing. She said it was beautiful, so bright. She told me the last time she saw the star was when I called to tell them about Hunter. The star was so bright that she could not see the phone that was right next to her. Then she told me that the star has showed back up. She said last night, it was very bright with a circle of smaller stars around it. She was wondering about the meaning. I told her that the Lord has shown me that He has something beautiful waiting on her and she is extremely happy. She then asked me if they were fixing to take her. I told her I do not know but that it is possible. She then told me that the star last night gave her total peace.

When she was telling the story and asking if she was next, she had no worries in her voice. I sensed gladness in her spirit and that she is ready to leave. I told her earlier; we just have a few little things to finish up. Like we kept telling each other, it will all work out. She deserves to find peace and true joy.

December 26, 2019

Two dreams this morning. In the first one I saw an army on the move. I think it was the US armed forces. In the second one, there were four large cauldrons and each one of them had a different color. The cauldrons had ornamental carvings on the outside. They had the vibrant colors of heaven and all four were filled with feathers. Several different colors, but feathers everywhere. The feathers had even spilled over on the ground. Very pure and beautiful feathers.

January 3, 2020

I have had several dreams lately. In one, I had no part of the next house. There are timelines that I will have to meet but they will get done. Only a few months more.

January 10, 2020

This morning I was dreaming about Mike, mom, and I were driving around. It was the heavenly white that I have seen many times. In the past, I always thought of heaven as sparkling and pure white, so pure that light bounced off it. That is not the heavenly white that I have been shown. The whiteness holds a purity about it that I cannot put into words.

Mike was driving, it was like a two-seater golf cart with an open top. Mom was in the passenger seat and I was in the seat behind Mike. It was like he was giving us a tour of the place.

In the dream that followed, I was looking at a small river or a flooded road. What caught my eye was a waterfall. In the middle of the water, there was a waterfall about one inch high and two or three inches wide. When I was reflecting on the waterfall after I got up, the river of life entered my thoughts. Maybe the time is extremely short. I pray to the Lord for forgiveness and His grace. I thank Jesus for everything that he is still doing for us. I thank the Holy Spirit for still teaching me. Thank you.

January 13, 2020

For the last two nights I have had the same dream. I was standing in the arena looking down at the dirt floor. There were two, I will call them hoops on the ground. The hoops were about two or three inches high. In the center them, there was a column standing tall about one foot high. The columns were made from individual pieces like a 3-D puzzle. In the first one, the cylinder was smaller than the second one. The first circle was peaceful with some visitors. The second event was the total opposite. There were a lot of visitors at the second event.

I had asked the Lord the meaning of the dream and I understood that these are two events that are fixing to happen. They will happen very close to each other. One being peaceful and the other had some chaos surrounding it. I honestly feel this has to do with my folks. When these events take place, I have no clue to their timeline.

January 18, 2020

Occurrence: I have cellulitis on my left leg, and it has not cleared up in ten years. The right leg cleared a year or two ago, but the left never has healed. I was sitting asking the Lord about it and I was given try lemon juice. I did some research and lemon juice is very good for rashes and some skin problems. For the last five days, I have put lemon juice on the leg in the morning and evening. The incessant itching has stopped, infected area is slowly shrinking, and most of the scabs from scratching are gone. The area still looks rough, but there is a remarkable improvement.

A couple of nights ago, I dreamed about the one lady at work. She was in the checkout line at the store and in her basket, there was about twenty stuffed animals she was buying. I dreamed the same dream the following night. I have no clue to what it means.

This morning, I was dreaming I was driving down a road. In the passenger lane, everybody was stopped but the right lane was still open. I passed the others and then I went into a tunnel. The tunnel was filled with household furniture and it was blocking both lanes as far as the eye could see. I did manage to stop the truck, but the journey was over. Again, I am not exactly sure what that means. What was unusual was that the people who were already there, they were laughing and talking to each, just waiting for the road to clear up. Most of the people, looked as though they had their possessions with them. They were all waiting for the road to become clear, but that was not going to happen. The people had no clue that everything had changed.

January 20, 2020

This morning, I dreamed about the small circle. It was the same circle as in a previous dream, a circle with a raised edge. I was standing looking down on it. That is all I could see was the circle.

For some reason, I keep thinking the circle represents life. I do not know.

January 28, 2020

Ever since mom had told me about the star, I asked the Lord if He would, would He show me feathers if her time is close. For the last four weeks, I have not seen the first feather. This is the back story.

My dad was taken to the hospital for heart problems and when I was driving in to see him, I stopped at a store that I have never stopped in before. What was unusual was in how I stopped. I had to cross three lanes in a very short distance. I was driving, then suddenly, I went from the far-right lane to the middle turning lane in about fifty feet. A very quick lane change. When I went into the bathroom, there were feathers posted all over the walls. I laughed and said, yes, I see the feathers.

Yesterday, I was asking the Lord for a passage to read to help me understand a little more. He gave me, Jeremiah 24. Jeremiah was at the gate looking at two piles of figs. I understand what the Lord is saying, I think. It brings sadness and disappointment to my soul. I cannot complain because righteousness belongs to the Lord. Read Jeremiah and ask the Lord for understanding.

January 29, 2020

Last night I had a dream, but it was more like a quick visit in the spirit. My old friend Bruce showed up and told me, "There is a lot of people who want to meet you." I have no idea what the meaning is.

Update: Dad is still in the hospital. They are going to shock his heart today to get the rhythm steady. Today are the folks 65th year anniversary. Dad went home about three days later.

February 5, 2020

Two nights ago, I heard these words "Stay focused on Jesus."

I had a spiritual attack that night, but it did not last very long at all. I talked to one of my brothers last night and the pettiness is already coming out. My folks are on the downward side of the hill and my other siblings are worried that they will not get their share. Two of them can be very dishonest at times and the third one just wants control. It is sad when you cannot trust your own blood. The Bible tells story after story about how brethren turn on each other. Father I wish their eyes could be open and see the truth. They will have to answer for their deeds. The Lord has always taken care of us and I believe as long as we try and do right by the Lord, then the Lord will show us mercy. We need to do our part first and then the Lord will do His. Thank you, Father, thank you Jesus, and Holy Spirit thank you for your continued guidance.

February 18, 2020

Last night I had a dream. I went to the one property and when I got out of the car, four men approached me. They pointed over to another man and they all told me, watch out for him, he is looking to see what he can get. I immediately started walking his way. The first thing out of his mouth was that he could stay and watch the place because he knew I had business to take care of. I looked at him and told him, "Get your ------ out of here. Go on and get." One of the four men who approached my car was surprised when I told the other man that. He was not expecting my response.

Something is coming, I am not sure what though. All I can do, once again, is trust in the Lord.

February 19, 2020

Last night I was dreaming about driving down by the river. On the one bridge, the mud and debris were only one foot from the bridge surface. The river was still flowing about thirty yards away and I was thinking it would not take much for the bridge to be washed out.

In the next dream, two people had asked me to take them to a church. We started to drive, and I said we will take this shortcut. Then we found ourselves looking at four different bridges that we had to go around. In the road, there was all sorts of construction materials. They were repairing all four bridges at the same time. There was a white path that curved around each bridge. We passed all of them with no issues. Then we got to the church, a red, brick building, I told them we are here. Two other people were coming around the corner to greet the two I had brought them. I woke up then.

February 27, 2020

This morning I had several dreams. In the first one, there was a large, dark figure by my bed where I was laying down. I could not make out any detail except for that he was tall and big, but I felt no evil from him nor was I scared in anyway. He looked at me and said, "It is time for you to leave." Then he sat down on the bed. There was no evil in him, he simply had a job to do.

Then there was a group of people who wanted to hurt me. They never could and then the truth had come out. There was a lady who had lied about me and that made the group upset. She admitted that she had lied. I managed to make it outside, and my oldest brother and his daughter were waiting for me. As I was headed to the vehicle, I kept telling my brother get in and drive. He just laughed it off and then he threw the keys in my direction. I told him no, get in and drive. Then he saw the group coming after me and he realized this was life or death. He jumped in the car and we drove just a short distance before I got out. Then I proceeded to do a few things. I ended going back to the house where I was held hostage to set a few things straight. This time when I was leaving, one of the guys had already towed my vehicle to the house and fixed it for me. I jumped in the vehicle and left. The guys that wanted to hurt me were coming back in. The dream also showed me that the building will be locked down, then there was a timeline of about six weeks where everything got compressed together, and then all there was a white light. I dreamed this same dream twice.

Earlier this week, I was asking the Lord about this and He gave me Job 2. Basically, yes, I am suffering but this will not take my life. The dream was the angel of death. My brother represented the hospital and I believe the house represented the college. After three rounds of antibiotics, there is little improvement. I trust in the Lord. In time, all will work according to His plan. Thank you, Father, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit. It is only through you that I can manage this world. Thank You.

March 5, 2020

Rash is going down, overall looking better.

For the last two nights, I have been having a dream about racing a friend or relative around a concrete track. We are always in the backstretch headed into the final turn. We finish the race just laughing and having a good time.

March 15, 2020

Over the last two weeks, I have a had a series of dreams where I am going into a building to finish some items. I have also been dreaming about something being on fire. I cannot remember the details.

I have been battling Cellulitis which triggered Vasculitis. Seems to be clearing up. The folks are still doing good. Mom had driven to town which she has not done in years. She sounded so proud when she told me that. I encouraged her to do more. Dad is stabilized but still having heart issues. I am not sure if he realizes his time is near or if he is saying he might die to get attention. That is hard to say which one it is.

Wife is doing great. The Lord has provided her work and she has been able to spend some time with friends. She is strong and she will make it.

March 19, 2020

Occurrence: The college went on shutdown this week due to the virus. Nobody knows how the next six weeks are going to be. Class is complete in six weeks, and then finals. All events have been cancelled. I was thinking about the virus and what will come out of all of this. This gets, all things online, turn us into a cashless society, limits our travel and meetings, and become more dependent on our government. The evil one has only one plan, to take over the world and rule as a god. More government control and less personal freedom.

March 21, 2020

Last night I was dreaming of the same prison that I have in the past. For the last three weeks, I have had many dreams about a prison that is on lockdown. The fences were broken, and I had no problem going to or leaving the prison yard. I never went inside the building, always on the outside talking to a man in a yellow shirt. The man is always stern in his looks and he does not joke around. I feel safe around him. He seems to know it will get worse and I am a spectator to the chaos.

Occurrence: On the Thursday before the shutdown, one of the students fixed my truck while I was teaching some lab procedures. The Vasculitis is clearing up, my truck was fixed while I was busy with work, and now the college is closed to the public. The dream on February 27th, foretold all of this. The other part of the dream was about several weeks on the calendar being compressed together and then there was nothing but a white light that followed. In time we will see.

March 31, 2020

This morning, I had the same dream back to back. I was in a prison being escorted by a guard. When we came to the one iron door, I asked them where are my supplies? There was supposed to be a change of clothes, a blanket, and some other items. The guard looked around and saw nothing. It seemed there was no record of me or why I should be there.

I have dreamed at other times something very similar. My thought is that I was accused of something but again they had no evidence to back up the charges. I am a little puzzled. Like I have said, we need to trust in what we cannot see. The Lord will protect His children. Have faith and do not let fear consume you. Trust is the key.

April 3, 2020

This morning, I had a dream where I was standing on solid ground. There were three or four wooden stakes driven into the ground around me. I bent over and wrapped a layer of protection or supplies around each stake. I then stood up, turned around, and faced in the opposite direction. All I could see was black or grey in color. It was like a fog that you could not see through.

With Gates human computer chip/vaccine, stock market almost at the bottom, pastors getting arrested for holding service, lack of goods at the store, COVID 19 scare, statewide shutdowns, and the world economy going down rapidly, the times have begun. It will only get worse from here. There will be moments when we can catch our breath, but war is around the corner. I sensed the battle coming in the dream. Pray and build your trust in the Lord, that is the only chance that we have.

April 7, 2020

This morning, I woke up by hearing two knocks. It was just before 3 AM when the knocking occurred. I said a few quick prayers and fell back asleep. I then had a dream about a death or two in the family and I was talking with one or more people about the Lord. I was trying to share a message. We will have to wait and see what happens.

April 10, 2020

This morning I dreamed I was standing on a small patch of dirt looking in one direction. All I could see was a mist or cloud, I could not see what was coming. As I stood watching and waiting, there were two massive buffalos that were on both my sides. I was slightly in front of them. They were there to provide extra support or protection. The buffalos were huge, very strong animals.

I have no idea what the event coming is, but I do know I already have support in place. How close is it?

April 15, 2020

Over the last several days, I keep having similar dreams. I am in a prison (lockdown), helping a small group of people. There are one or two figures that are helping me or guiding me, not sure which. It is a prison. Jail cells, fences, and the whole nine yards. In all the dreams, after the lockdown, all I can see is a white light. I never see the people I am helping but after I help them, there is always a bright, white light.

April 23, 2020

Three nights ago, I woke up hearing "What you have been seeing is true." Nothing else was heard or seen. The night before last, I was in the prison yard fixing to conduct a small class. I kept having the feeling that will be my last class I teach. Last night, I woke up hearing the word "Nebula", which means a cloud of dust or where new stars are formed. I have no clue on the meaning.

After that, I dreamed there was someone or something that wanted to hurt me. There were also three men sitting behind me and they were not going to allow that to happen. Right after that, I dreamed I opened the garage door just in time to see a six-foot snake slither by. We will see what happens.

April 27, 2020

This morning, I was dreaming about three gutters or long troughs. They were in the ground and I was sweeping the middle one out. I was at the very end of the middle one, only about a foot that needed to be clean. The two outside ones were already clean. What I felt when I woke up was that the Lord will allow me to finish this book but then I must leave. It still signified two more events that are to come. When they happen and the dust settles down, then this writing is done.

I was talking to mom last night and she said she has not seen any stars lately, especially the special star. While we were talking, the star came out. She was so happy that she saw it. I looked out the garage door, and sure enough, the star was back and was brighter than any other star around. I love the Lord.

April 29, 2020

Occurrence: Today, I had to go to the college and give a test. Before I left the house, I asked the Lord if this is my last class, would He show me a feather like what I saw when Bruce passed. When I was driving to work, the Holy Spirit spoke and said, "Remember the feather." I said ok and continued driving. I was at work for about four hours when I walked out to the truck to take a break. The wind was blowing strong and there had been very few birds out. This was the second time I walked out to the vehicle. I had gotten almost to the vehicle, and one, small white feather landed within six inches of my feet. The wind was still blowing strong, but this one feather managed to make it to me. I just smiled and said thank you.

The college is locked down tight. All doors "must remain closed and locked at all times".

May 1, 2020

The Lord has impressed upon me to finish this here. My bag is packed, and I am waiting for my journey to continue.

The Lord ask us to reach out for Jesus. It is only a short reach. He is there when we ask for Him. The Bible is truth. Take time to learn and the Holy Spirit will guide you. The Holy Trinity is waiting on us all.

The day of the Lord is at hand.

