 
A walk with Christ –Imitate Christ

TABLE OF CONTENT

INTRODUCTION........................................................ 3

CHAPTER ONE ........................................................ 10 - 19

Jesus the Son of God

The painful part of Jesus's death

The shameful and sorrowful part of Jesus's death

CHAPTER TWO ...................................................... 20 - 24

The Realisation

How do you follow Christ?

Jesus' life with his disciple

How do you measure satisfaction?

Why are Christians not satisfied?

CHAPTER THREE.................................................... 20 - 24

Read, Study, Memorize the word of God

Importance of the word of God

CHAPTER FOUR...................................................... 25 - 36

The Holy Spirit

The Fruit of the Holy Spirit

The works of the flesh

Against such thing there is no law

CHAPTER FIVE......................................................... 37 - 40

The Anointing

Do you carry the anointing of God on your life

CHAPTER SIX ........................................................ 41 - 48

Time

Fear

Holiness

A WALK WITH CHRIST
INTRODUCTION

I thank God for granting me this gift of knowledge to be able to do his will for everyone to see a practical way of being a true son of God. I am inspired by the words of John H. Sammis (1846 – 1919) song "Trust and Obey".

When we walk with the lord

In the light of his word

What a glory he shares on our way

When we do his good will

He abide in us still

And we all who will trust and obey

Pondering over these insightful words of this powerful man, it coincides with the words God gave me to tell this generation about the eternal love of Christ and based on that eternal love, his followers called Christians should be able to love the same. In loving Jesus Christ and God, Christian will learn how to trust and obey His commandments. They will diligently seek the face of throughout their life, be it morning, afternoon, evening and night. This commandment is in his word and on his word he formed the earth. They should not be in need of something before they can come to the presence of God. Their walks should be of Christ, their talks and actions should be of Christ. In short they should be a perfect imitator of Christ so that those who do not know this man Jesus will see the uniqueness and beauty in a Christian to make a decision to follow that Christ also. It teaches Christian or non-Christian, some principal instructions to be able to abode in the presence of God.

I pray God give you the understanding to read this book and share with others who is this great God.

A WALK WITH CHRIST
CHAPTER ONE

JESUS, THE SON OF GOD.

Many years and different generation arise since Jesus finished his work and ascended to his father's side, his name is still proclaimed until now even to the end of the world. His name will never run to end. He came to be with man for a little while he went back to the father and brought the holyspirit to stay with man. Christ followers did their best to proclaim his word for all nations to hear and believe, with this I have heard God's word proclaim unto me and I will not be ashamed to write for others to know Jesus and how to walk with him. In the journey of the Christian race, I term it a walk with Christ. Who is this Christ? Over two thousand years ago God brought his only begotten son to man. The prophets of old prophesy about him being the messiah. He was declared in heaven long before existing on earth (Revelation 5:1 – 8) and it was revealed to one of his apostles called John at a place called Patmos.

And I saw in the right hand of Him who sat on the throne a scroll written inside and on the back, sealed with seven seals. Then I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, "Who is worthy to open the scroll and to lose its seals?" And no one in heaven or on the earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll, or to look at it.

So I wept much, because no one was found worthy to open and read* the scroll, or to look at it. But one of the elders said to me, "Do not weep. Behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has prevailed to open the scroll and to loose* its seven seals."

The root of David was Jesus. He is the lion of the tribe of Judah and he was sinless that why he was able to take the scroll and loose its seals. The lion of Judah have its original meaning from the blessings Jacob who was latter called Israel gave to one of his sons called Judah in Genesis 49:9. In Luke chapter 1, the angel Gabriel appear sent from God appeared a Virgin Mary in the city of Galilee named Nazareth. In verse 31 he told him you shall bear a son and shall call his name Jesus – No other name but Jesus. Jesus was the only one to take the scroll and open its seals. They prophesy about him to restore the kingship of David but ironically his own people the Jew did not believe him because he was born in manger- a poor place and insignificant place to bear a son, therefore the Jews did not believe him. He began his ministry In Luke 4:18 and he affirmed it saying;

The Spirit of the Lord is upon me,

Because He has anointed me

To preach the gospel to the poor;

He has sent Me to heal the brokenhearted,*

To proclaim liberty to the captives

And recovery of sight to the blind,

To set at liberty those who are oppressed;

19 To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. (NKJV)

For all righteousness to be fulfill he allowed himself to be baptized by John the baptise who was the Elijah to come and prepare a way for the Lord Jesus to come. Jesus did all these for his followers to follow his steps and know the truth and proclaim salvation to the world. He thought and healed many until his crucifixion. He came for the Jews but Jews did not believe him – they believe Moses more than they believe him. But God knew the purpose of his son on earth (he is the light of the world). God intention was for Christ to restore man back to his first position. It was only Jesus blood that can to that – that is the reason why he was the only one to take up the scroll and do all written in it. The only way was his people to reject him, after the rejection, crucifixion and the love is restored.

The four gospels, Mathew, Mark, Luke and John wrote more about the life, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. This account have been read to celebrate what Jesus has done on earth, not for us to celebrate alone but to see his life as an icon to emulate. One thing he showed as was to always stay connected to God. He ate and drunk, prayed and fasted yet he was in line with God his Father. In records of him there are three important sectors of Jesus's life that the four gospels wrote about which is his birth, death and resurrection. These three sectors have its significant in the life of every Christian. One sector of the three sectors I want us to be enlighten and know significant of the Jesus who is the Saviour and the son of the living God death. No one can see or witness his death while still alive but only Jesus foresaw his death, he really died and rose again the third day. No prophet or human have ever rose from death before as on account till today and the writers of the four gospels has enable us to read about him

HIS DEATH

Jesus started professing about his death when he first asked his disciples "whom do you say I am" in Matthew 16:21, and after he came back from the mountain where he was transfigured in the presence of his disciples, he predicted for the second time, Matthew 17:22; "The son of Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men and they will kill him, and the third day he will be raised up. he knew it will be painful, shameful and sorrowful so at point, he went to pray and ask God that if it will be, let this cup pass over him but he immediately pray and said not my will but the father's will.

THE PAINFUL DEATH

John 19:1

The verse read depict the painful event that took place in Jesus' life before being crucified. Pilate scourged him; they twisted a crown of thorns and put it on his head and struck him. At the normal circumstance scourging could have killed Jesus. In the Jewish law a person who deserves kind of punishment is of high degree of crime. The procedure is to bare the upper half of the victim's body and tie his hands to a pillar before whipping him with a three – prolong whip. The number of lashes is determining by the degree of crime. Up to forty (40) lashes were permitted under the Jewish law (Deu.25:3). Jesus took thirty -one (30 plus 1) lashes of which no crime was officially pointed out on him. His flesh was torn due to the whip and other forms torture was laid upon him like the crown of torn which pierce in to the flesh of his skull. He became a creature you cannot look at just because of you and me. On the cross, he was nailed. There was several ways and different shape of cross condemn people are hanged. Some hands are tied to their cross but Jesus hand and feet were nailed. He felt the pain so that when am in him I will not feel any pain.

THE SHAMEFUL PART

Jesus went through a shameful experience that nobody has ever experience before in the world. Many came as messengers and prophets of God but none has ever suffered the three folds of suffering Christ through. In John 19:5, Jesus was brought before the whole congregation and when the chief priest and elders saw him they shout crucifies him. They mocked him with the purple robe Pilate soldiers put on him. They spate on him and Pilate soldiers hailed him pretending to be worshipping – they mocked... A sinless man with all humility has been laid for public ridicule.

Matthew 27:27-30

Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the Praetorium and gathered the whole garrison around Him. 28 And they stripped Him and put a scarlet robe on Him. 29 When they had twisted a crown of thorns, they put it on His head, and a reed in His right hand. And they bowed the knee before Him and mocked Him, saying, "Hail, King of the Jews!" 30 Then they spat on Him, and took the reed and struck Him on the head. 31 And when they had mocked Him, they took the robe off Him, put His own clothes on Him, and led Him away to be crucified. (NKJV)

In the Jewish law when you spite on someone, it means the person is hopeless and a degraded person – A person of no value. They laid him to crucify him on a place called Golgotha. In the Jewish law, thieves, murderers and other shameful acts are hanged openly and their offenses are written above their head so that any one passing by will see and know the act or sin one is committed. Beside, you carry your own cross along the longest possible route to serve as warning to bystanders not to emulate the same crime. This was very shameful to bring Jesus in the same level as a criminal. Jesus was never charged with any crime, the only crime they could possibly find was, he was the King of the Jews. Jesus could have stopped all this

humiliation and pain if he want to, he could have destroy all those mockers but he chose to humble himself, love the cross and swallow all the humiliation just for the blood to be poured and that someone like me can enter into his temple, to the holiest of holy and pour out my supplication before him. You and I can personally come into his presence because our sins have been blotted out by the blood.

THE SORROWFUL PART.

What crime did Jesus commit and what is his charge? The only crime is to profess that He is the King of the Jew. He was beaten, went through hell in the hands of man but was still strong; he couldn't carry his cross because there was no more strength for him to carry through the long route to Golgotha. If you were Mary, seeing your son go through this pain and humiliation for ungrateful nation what will you do. It is the will of God his father to reconcile us back to him and it is crown to bear. He was given wine mixed with gall to reduce the pain but he didn't drink. Gall was generally noted to contain narcotic that was used to ease pain. Jesus wants to be full conscious of his death to let Satan know he is defeated. Jesus was sorrowful to death. On the cross, he saw his mother Mary and the other women weeping and in his sorrowful state, knew there was no one to look after his mother, so he commune his mother into the hands his disciple John. For him to die early for the Sabbath was approaching with great darkness and earthquake, they ask for Jesus body from Pilate, so one soldier use a spear to pierce through his side to his heart and immediately, blood and water came out separately proving he was dead. His legs were broken to signify total death. For all this happened to confirm what was written about him in scriptures. Jesus indeed is the true son of God.

John 19:26

When Jesus therefore saw His mother, and the disciple whom He loved standing by, He said to His mother, "Woman, behold your son!" 27 Then He said to the disciple, "Behold your mother!" And from that hour that disciple took her to his own home. This signifies unity he has brought to the church.

Jesus soul was greatly disturbed for he thought his father has left him. Who will he speak to and who will hear him if not his father, God. As at the ninth hour he has not hear the voice God so in Matthew 27:46, he cried to the Lord saying, "My God, My God, why have you forsaken me?".

Beloved, let the world forsake you, but God will not forsake you. God was temporarily silent in the life (last breath) of his son - the way he used to hear the voice of his father, he can't feel or hear it anymore. He felt God has forsaken him. Even Water to drink on the cross, he was given to vinegar (sour wine). His sorrowful state brought great darkness in the sixth to the ninth hour, rolling away all darkness in our lives. In all this wails, he cried out with a loud voice saying "it is finished". He indeed pays the price with his blood on the cross; the veil of the temple was torn into two from top to down and everyone saw that Jesus is the son of God. The heavy curtain (the veil) divides the temple from the place called most holy place where the chief priest meet God. Its significant is to separate holy God from the sinful people. What it means is that we will no longer go to the father yearly, or on the Day of Atonement, everyone who desires can enter into his temple; Gentile or Jew. For by grace and faith we are all sons of the highest God only if you believe.

Jesus went through all these suffering just for you to return to him (to be saved). If you have taken him as your personal savior, you have more work to do in your personal life and in him to be like Jesus. If you have not also taken him as your personal savior, there is more room for you, he is eager to receive you. He said "come all ye who are heavy laden and I'll give you rest". Jesus is the only one that can give you peace (inner), joy and all that you desire for in this life. As for me, how can I neglect such a great salvation he has given? I'll write for you see the goodness of God. Repent for the Lord is at hand, it will not be too long and the trumpet will sound, WHERE IS YOUR FAITH? ARE GOING WITH US OR NOT?

Jesus was not left on the cross like any other common criminal, but was buried. In his grave, his last speech "It is finished" did not end there, physically, everything was seen but spiritually, a great battle was worn for us. He took the keys of life and death from Satan and restore it to man. Satan has no power over us anymore; at the mention of the name of Jesus every knee bow and tongue confesses that Jesus is Lord. We are no longer in the bondage of sin and Christ has redeemed us. On the third day, rose up from dead...Halleluiah. The great tomb was opened with no human hands.

An amazing thing is that he did not rose up alone, those who have been dead for a long time rose up with him.

Knowing who Christ whom we are to imitate is, there is a need to know his ways if we want to walk with him and we need to firstly accept him as our personal Saviour - A declaration of faith to serve and worship him alone. We then need to get the understanding of Christ calling.

A WALK WITH CHRIST
CHAPTER TWO

THE REALISATION

Satan told Adam and Eve in the garden "you will not surely die, for God knows that the day you will eat it your eyes will be opened and you will be like God, knowing good and evil". Genesis 3:4-5. Man become conscious of him knowing good and evil but they never became like God.

A similar situation happened with Jesus after fasting for forty days, Satan tested according to his faith on the mountain. Jesus knowing all quoted him with the word and he rebuked Satan from his presence, making aware of his tricks he places on innocent souls. On the cross, God made and unmade certain events for all to see that truly He is the son of God. In Luke chapter 23:46-47 record events like the total darkness in the sixth hour, the curtains of the temple divide in to two. One of the soldiers who were among those who torture Jesus stared deeply and then realized that "indeed Jesus is a righteous man". I believe that what the soldier saw was beyond any human expectations – a discerning, which is only given by God to know an insight of a situation.

Jesus walks with his disciples for three years but they really did not know him. He taught them many things which were spiritual but the disciples took it worldly (physically as seen) without in-depth knowledge about what they are doing. They may think they are just following their master to see what good will come out Nazareth or their master, but after this resurrection, record shows that his disciples scattered doing their own business until Jesus reveal himself to them and brought them back together to continue his work. It was after his revelation that the disciples realized the call on faith to follow their master. The disciple became the foundation builders for us to follow. Adam and Eve on the other hand didn't think twice to start eating from the tree of good and evil and truly their eyes opened and they saw they were naked. Though Jesus chose twelve (12) disciples, they made their own decisions to follow Jesus. Imagine their first encounter when they publicly profess the name of Jesus after he ascended.

In our contemporary world, we sometimes do things before realizing the consequences. The schools we choose, courses and career we take all depend on the first decision we take, even the choice of person we want to get married to depend on a decision and we

are self-conscious of it. We mostly blame ourselves when these choices become futile. What of you realization as a Christian? Are you triggered by the path you choose? We are in a world of different faith and believe and we make free choices on which faith we belong to. In our Christian faith, Christ is our focus – being a follower of Christ as in as in the days our apostles. The Call to be Christ follower is not an easy one but seems to be easy in our sight. We tend to call ourselves Christians but have we gotten a thoughtful insight if we are really Christ followers or not? We read records on the Apostles encounter on their faith, the brutality and wickedness of their own people even to death, just for the gospel to be proclaimed and they called them Christian foremost at Antioch. They went through pain, drank the cup of suffering and sorrow till the Christ message was preached, at a point in time, before they really accept who they are they had a first step which is encounter of realization. In this era, Christians may think they are Christ followers but until they realized who they, they are not Christ follow. For Jesus make some criteria in Mark chapter 10:38 that "unless you are able to drink the cup that I drink and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with". Therefore a Christ follower should be able to know where he stands In Christ – be able to measure his spiritual level and know the instructions of God. His likes and dislikes. A Christian on the other hand may be called so but he is just a floating Christian. He does what he likes with no promptings from the holyspirit, disobedient to the instructions of God and he's prayer life may be questioned. A Christian may not realise himself as who he is in Christ but a Christ follower will know. Now, what actually is this realization?

Realization in my contest of definition is a self-conscious act that involves the spirit man, the mind and the heart. To be able to understand and accept the call or way you choose to live, you need to be able to comprehend, recognize or grasp the high concept of the ways of Christ.

In the book of the world some great men of the world's writings, realization are described very interesting and I want to share a few thought about them. In the book they termed it Self-realization which bounces back to my definition of realization. One great man called Abraham Maslow define Self-realization as an impulse to convert oneself into what one is capable of being. Merriam Webster's dictionary says; it's fulfillment by oneself of the possibilities of one character or personality. she describe it in a context of human character or personality – if you can be able to portray or reach a perfect and good character which you are found blameless. An expression used in psychology, philosophy and spirituality in the eastern religion- He termed realization as the culture of the Indians and other eastern countries. All these great philosophers and writers have proven of their definitions based on theories but some philosophers say they are false and pointless to prove it. They basically based their definitions on the human personality but this goes beyond that to the spiritual. Therefore one man called Paramahausa Yogannanda says it's about knowing, in body, mind and soul – we are one with the omnipresent God. This man's theory talks about the three main important sections of human being (the mind, body and soul) in knowing oneself. A deep taught on this broaden my scope in understanding – man does not go about his daily duties without knowing who he was. Man should know his temperament, his likes and don't likes, where he goes and doesn't go - a conscious effort in decision making. A conscience is the generation of one's realization. These scholars have establish the human intellectual mind on self-realization and it all draws to the fact that realization start from the mind and the heart conceive it . Therefore when God calls someone into his presence, he may not realise the call outright but as time passes, with the teaching of the word of God, he embraces it and realise the call to be Christ follower.

All along the disciple didn't realise the mantle upon them until they had an encounter with Jesus which is after his resurrection and a promise of the Holy Spirit who will be their comforter and guide. All the teachings and what they need to know about Christ, He has taught them already but they didn't know what to do after Jesus death. Scripture records them scattering because they were afraid - their master was no more with them. Jesus knowing how they will be scattered promised them the holyspirit and so they should be together. Every Christian should reach a point in his/her life where he examines himself/herself, check within him, his level in Christ as he walks in him. He/she should be able to detect whether his ways follows the pleasures of this world or his delight is in the law of God.

How do you follow Christ?

It is no news that Jesus disciples followed him where ever he went. Many were his followers but only twelve remain his true disciples. Some followed him because of his miracles, some may be fame, others to enquire more about who Jesus is and listen to his teachings, in which ever way he had followers with different motives. When he called the twelve Peter had a question for him since with a clean heart and mind they follow him. He said "what will we gain from following you" Luke 18:28. Jesus replied in verse 29 "Truly I tell you no one who has left home or wife or brothers or sisters or parent or children for the sake of the kingdom of God will not fail to receive many times as much in this age and the age to come eternal life". This is the assurance Christ gave his disciples and they believed and hope in him to get eternal life in this life and after. It is for this cause we act in certain ways, our walk is with Christ is not meaningless but with a great goal we accomplish it. Christians are not the only people who know life after death – the traditionalist, Muslims and other religious groups all around the world believe in a life after death. What is the difference? The difference is Jesus Christ whom we believe is the son of God sent by God to come and save us (draw us back to God) and render unto us eternal life with God. Therefore we believe there is a place called heaven or paradise as Jesus said ...In my father's house are many mansions, I go and prepare a place for you... Our lives are secured in him if only you follow him rightly. He provides all our needs and wants not by our might or strength but of God. In following Christ trials and tribulations arises, temptations, painful and difficult moment arises but the Lord Jesus will redeem us from all. Following him is not based on character, beauty, wealth, poor or strength but through accepting Jesus as our Saviour and conscientious to follow him where ever he leads you.

In our walk with Christ we need to make known his love for us according to his will, as the apostles did – they move in his power and might to proclaim Christ according to the will of God. There's an interesting passage Act 3:1-10 - The lame man at the beautiful gate. It is natural for Peter and John and others to pass that road always leading to the temple to pray but on the faithful day when the lame man asked for money the holyspirit directed the disciples unto granting a new request which is better than the request of the lame man – to rise up and walk.

This generation we live now, is infected with a syndrome called technology. Everything is possible by his own will. We create, discover and use what we created, money is everything for us that we can kill or do all sort of things to get his/her way. Nobody cares about anything provided we feel what we are doing is right in our own eyes. We know our rights and defend them even if we are committing a sin, we cover and bail ourselves out of the sin we committed. Meanwhile this same person is the first person to be in church and hold big position in the church. He/she calls himself a Christian who is saved. Beloved let us be of mind that Christ never incumbent sin. His life was to show us the way to the father. Imitate the life of Jesus then you will see God. As the word of God says .... No one comes to the father except me. Therefore we can only fall under the will of God, if we forgo our Adamic nature and let the holyspirit saturate us in study the word of God, Praying, fasting and meditating on the word, listening to preachers, watching Christian based movies and gospel songs that will increase your faith in Christ.

Jesus' LIFE WITH HIS DISCIPLES.

Many of Jesus followers were following him because of their selfish reasons, the rich follow and the poor followed, the handicap followed as well as prostitute and gentiles. Then his disciples also followed him. The disciples may proud themselves with fame and fortunes they might get when they follow Jesus but Jesus on the other hand want a Godly life for his followers. Therefore in the early life of Jesus, He thought them the character and behavior of a born again Christian (someone who has declared to follow Christ). He revealed to them the traits and image they need to take-up in other to be his true followers. All that he needed from them was to be obedient, faithful from their heart to be able to reveal who Christ really is. So on the Mount, Jesus gave this sermon called the Beatitudes. Every Christian is expected to walk as these in other for others who don't know Christ should know him and also be a propagator of the gospel. The Christian should be able to live well among men. Though these attitudes of traits may contradict the world's knowledge or way of life they are blessed attitudes to all men in the Lord.

Mathew 5:3-10

"Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 4 Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted. 5 Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth. 6 Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they will be filled. 7 Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy. 8 Blessed are the pure in heart, for they will see God. 9 Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called sons of God. 10 Blessed are those who are persecuted because of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

We come into the presence of God with an expectation that is contrary to Christ calling on our lives. Some come to Christ to look for lifetime partners, Jobs, child and other material things and they expect God to provide for them since God is a great Provider. The question is should we come to God's presence with the mindset of wanting something from God or to worship him? This is what the disciples of Jesus did but Jesus showed them the way. Everyone who comes to God believes that He exists and he is the rewarder of those who diligently seek him. Your fellowship with Jesus shows your commitment and persistence in his word and he will bless you with all that you need. When you come to his presence, your paramount expectation should be to save you. Jesus drew the attention of his disciples and other followers to the fact that, they will be hatred and despised by the world when they emulate Him in the character trait in Matt 5 verse 3 to the last end, but at the end they will be victorious and be called BLESSED. Now let us understand the sayings of Jesus on the mount.

"Blessed are the poor in spirit"....

Jesus called on us not pride ourselves with worldly things. A poor person is someone who is in need. He/she always depend on someone in other to eat, to drink, to cloth, to shelter and do other activities. He always asking and seeking. Jesus want Christians to come unto him, seek his face in all their needs. In doing so God will enlighten them in his ways and teach them all you need to know about him and where he is (heaven). A Christian first expectation should be to press on toward the goal of his calling – you yearn for God. You cannot seek God and the world at the same time – you cannot seek material things of the world and the kingdom of God at the same time. You cannot be a lukewarm; be cold if you want be and hot if you want to be but don't be cold and hot at the same time. The bible says seek first the kingdom of God and its righteousness and all other things will be added to you. Seek Jesus with all that you have and all things he commanded us to do then He shall add what you need (cloth, money, shelter, marriage, children and anything you need).

In seeking God's face, you will learn how to comfort those who mourn. You will be humble, obedience, respectful, polite and you will treat others the same. It will become your hallmark because you see what the arrogant doesn't see and you watch your tongue. You see God and would inherit the kingdom of God for nothing matters than these.

Jesus told his disciples, the meek shall inherit the earth. The actual fact is a Christian is supposed to possess all the good things on earth because it is a promise to Abraham to bless him in all generations under him and since we are Abraham descendant through the grace of Jesus we are part of those blessings. We need to understand that God is our total need.

God told Abraham, I'll bless those who bless you and curse those who curse you; for this prophesies to come to pass, Abraham did not sit idle – he communicated with God until he calls him friend. He solely depended on God daily for everything he needed in life (an ultimate helper). To add up to his communication Abraham possess other attributes of humble, patient, persistence to persevere and full of faith. God blessed Abraham in his meekness and he inherited the earth. Abraham was blessed and fulfilled before he died. What is the virtue of today's Christian? Do we possess the spirit of meekness? We attend church gatherings to increase our knowledge in what we know of the bible then influence the world we are living with it but we are not doing what we are supposed to do. We don't apply what we learn from the presence of God to the world. We rather leave the message in the temple and take up corruptible character, arrogant, proud, gossip, selfish and the like which comprises the things of the flesh. We may proud ourselves with the degrees and other qualifications we have, disrespecting subordinate under us at work place, at home with your parents and even within our peers. Ephesians 5:1 says children obey your parent in the Lord for this right, and it again says honor your father and mother that your days may be long. There is a proverb in our Ghanaian language that says "beauty shall take you to the highest height in your life but character will bring you back to zero (where you started from), Your character and attitude is needed in every day activity, as Ephesian state it clear; your days may be long. Studying Ephesian 5:1, the holyspirit gave me a rhema (revelation) that, referring to the children in the context is not only for little children but also grown-ups with a heart of a child telling you to obey the voice of God and what the holyspirit tells you to do. A person who is meek in spirit is like possessing the heart of a child that listens to his parent and to God and does whatever was told him and the bible says that person shall see God.

Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness for they shall be filled...

When I was a child I used to think that a rich man does not have any problem because he has all his riches at his disposal especially when I think of self-actualization in Maslow hierarchy thought in school. At that time my teacher only mention a few people who able to reach this self-actualization stage in life where all your heart desires are fulfilled and he mentioned Michael Jackson(who was alive at that time), Mahatma Gandhi and others as a few examples. As I grew up, reading the life of this people on news and other media, I asked myself this question; have they truly reach their perfect life they wanted or was it in our eyes we saw "perfect life" whiles they themselves are not satisfied. In one sayings of Mahatma Gandhi, I quote "Happiness is when what you think, what you say and what you do are in harmony". You can identify his satisfaction or realization in the quote he says. Through my search I discover a website that state that Mahatma describe his home as a "Sufficient Residential Community" implying that he was satisfied about with himself and the place he lives. His live was full of long time fasting and praying to his god, which implies that he was highly religious person and based on his life history I can say that Mahatma Gandhi was satisfied with life and blessed, for his hunger and thirst for righteousness for his god though he did not die his natural death, he was fulfilled.

How do you measure satisfaction?

Mahatma may measure it by equating it to happiness or what you will do to get happiness. Michael Jackson and other people who see themselves in the self-actualization stage may have their own way of measuring their satisfaction. It may be the material things (money, houses, cars, clothes) or family and the community you live. Every individual has his own way of measuring his satisfaction or actualization in life. But are we sure we need nothing when we reach our actualization stage. What if you are told to buy the air you breathe with your money, for how much and long will you buy with your money? Now Christ said those who hunger and thirst for righteousness shall be filled (satisfied). Christ satisfaction is measured with hungriness and thirst of right doings, in filling of the holyspirit to do good works. The life of Mahatma was mostly found in the temple praying to his god and he was satisfied – his worship was paramount to him and he was filled. Now the question is where your Satisfaction is and how are you filled?

The realization of God being the paramount person you put your hopes in and Christ being the paramount Saviour in your life as a Christian can give you the satisfaction you need. We find many who are Christians but are satisfied or filled. This may be for two reason; 1. They have not totally surrendered their spirit and soul, body for Christ uses them as a vessel of honor 2. They don't understand who they are in Christ. Suffering and hardship is part of Christian race and you have to follow Christ with the same spirit. Following Christ is like tick clinging on its host. A tick feed on it host so it sucks an amount of nutrient or blood from it host. Elijah called Elisha and he left his oxen, field and followed him. He was delighted in seeking for Elijah's power and anointing and he had a double portion it. You need to hunger and thirst for God work to be able to be filled. Seek God to get the hidden treasure in him.

Why are Christians not satisfied?

One particular reason is that we profess Christ as our Lord and savior but we are not doers of his will. The bible says "Not all who say Lord, Lord will enter into the kingdom of God but he who does the will of God". There is a difference between knowing about Christ and living in him. The knowing about him can be equated to professing his name, going to his church but never take his works serious, singing, cleaning, playing drums and other activates we do these when we come into his presence for we have close our heart in seeing the beauty of God. We may know Christ but still living in sin. What about living in him? – opening your heart for Christ to stay. If you live in him then he is your Lord and he directs the affairs of your life. Doing the will of God require much effort. You need to personally invite in your heart, read his word and understand and communicate through him in prayer. Telling God the goodness and mercy - daily increases the spirit of God in you.

How do you know?

You shall know them by their ways and the fruit they bear. When you live in God's presence you shall pass many sufferings, trials, tribulations, you shall were the crown of life. As Matt 7:14 say that narrow is the gate that leads life and a few people enter. I edge you to pass through the narrow gate. On it there are thorns and briers but if you pass through you will have life. Righteous living comes with following Christ rightly and it takes sacrifice to reach there. In living in him, you be able to know what he likes he purpose of your life and how to pleas him. In book of John chapter 10, Jesus said I know my sheep and my sheep knows me. If you are a sheep and you do not do according to the directions of the shepherds, you are not part of the sheepfolds. Count it all joy when you fall into diverse trials and temptations knowing that the lord is strengthening you ... In all the trials and temptation you will bear fruit of peace, joy, patient with other fruit of the holyspirit in Galatians 5:22-23.

Counting all the joy, a Christ follower's satisfaction is the inner peace, meekness, gentleness and patience when we prevail all hard times. Hard times make us strong and hope in right living with God.

Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall see God

When you live right before God his spirit dwells in you and when his spirit dwells in you, you bear the fruit of the holyspirit in which peace is part of it. There's nowhere in the bible that state that Christ quarrel with it followers or those who disagree with his teachings. He made peace with everyone around him. In his account, a young woman came to him for help when the men were chasing him to stone her. Jesus said "if you have not sin before cast the first stone". And this settles it outright. Jesus came to bring peace to the world. He said "peace I bring unto you, the peace that the world cannot give, and the peace that the world cannot understand". Jesus Christ brought peace for us to imitate. Therefore, as he teaches and reveals hidden things about a Christian attitude (beatitude), he is expecting us to emulate them and he calls those who emulate them as blessed. When you become a peacemaker, you shall see God (truly know who He is).

Christians have missed these characters and have push Jesus behind them while they lead in front. The peace that they need to have they don't get it. Picture a Christian fighting with his neighbor over something that can be settled without throwing harsh words. You need to understand that when you are in Christ, your life is no more in your hands, God through his son Jesus lives in you and you in him. It is through the holyspirit we can only keep up to this attitude lectured on the Mount. If you really love God you claim to do then you have to reflect his beauty and humility in other to live among all men.

Beatitude will always be in contrast with the world's mindset. The world will never understand you because the attitudes are heavenly – unless the holyspirit baptise you, you cannot do it on your own. As you choose to walk with Christ, every word on the mount should manifest in everyday in your lives. Our faith must be established in him and we will smile side by side with him and our hope and trust in him we will see his glory.

When you realise your stand in Christ we get to know him better, we will know his likes and dislikes, we will move mightily doing his work in his name. We will not be shattered by the fear, doubt and uncertainties. Now you have realized your stand in following Christ as he preached on the mount, what you need to do is to know more about his word.

A WALK WITH CHRIST
CHAPTER THREE

READ, STUDY, MEMORISE THE WORD OF GOD

How many Christians of this generation can give a quotation or memorize a verse from the bible? If Jesus comes right now and ask you to give a verse in the bible before you go to heaven with him, do you have one give. How many can recite the verses and live doing what he has professed? Where is your faith if you don't know the word of God? It is written, God uses the word to create the world, and without the word the world would not be formed. In the book of Genesis chapter one, God spoke of a written word when he wanted to create the world. He said "....Let there be... and there was..." The word of God which is also called the bible is about God, his commandment to his chosen people, to live rightly and be an example to other nations. There is nothing that has happen on this earth that is not written in the bible – Everything that happen in this generation have somehow happen to a generation before, in the bible. As the preacher in Ecclesiastes says, there is nothing new under the sun and that is why Jesus said, "All shall pass away but my word shall not pass away". This word of God have pass through so many hands in a scroll (form of paper), that was from the real owner's (Jews) hand travel to foreign (gentiles) hands has been compiled in to volumes of book named the bible. It includes the laws Moses took from God to his people, the kingship rule and the words of the prophet to his people Israel. Why should the word given by God travel? It is because the custodians of the law or manual (Israel) do not want to follow them. They disobey instructions. This is likened to what God told Joshua after the death of Moses. "..And this book shall not depart from your mouth..." the leader, Joshua held on this words God's promise and gave the victory over their enemies and possessed the land Canaan as their inheritance. The Israelites turn away to worship idol possessed by the nations around them, then Joshua declared this unto them, they may disobey God by worshipping other gods made by man but he and his entire household will worship and serve the Lord.

This generation is not different from Joshua's generation. A generation blessed with the grace of God through Christ Jesus. We attend church every day with the bible preached to us but we leave the church room with no change – our lives is still the carnal or Adamic stage. The world way of dressing is what you bring to house of God, shoes and other material things are our idols we worship. We serve two masters by going to fetish priest and places which spiritually that does not conform to the teachings of Christ – practicing divination like the Israelite which made God drive them into exile, yet we come back to church seeking the face of God. We fornicate, commit adultery, steal, and even kill unborn babies and we come back to Christ to worship because we have not been seen. Why foil yourself with filth you know God hates? We come to Christ without him transforming us. We will neglect the study of the bible and keen to listen to one pastor or prophet (whether good or bad) who will speak prophetic blessings and good things in our lives (Our hearts hurt listening to evil blessings). We don't know the bible is the only manual in the world that teaches everything about human life. If you want your marriage to bear Christ, study his word and apply them. Husbands love your wife as Christ love the church (Ephesians 5), marriage is liken to the church so if you have problems with your marriage and you think divorce can solve the problem, check your marriage with Christ also to find out what is missing. If you love God you will obey his commandment. May the dignity you had to bring your marriage to the altar of God be the very necessary reason you will not mistrust your partners. You will not cheat and secretly indulge in activities which your partner doesn't know about. God's manual is the only book you will read and study to save your marriage because it's only God that holds up every situation. It's the only book that teaches us not steal, lie, homosexuality and other social vices.

Based on the word of God you can pray to God about every situation including marital problems. Refer God to his word; he does it because He said "my word does not come out void unless it comes to fulfil what should be fulfilled". God will never exempt from his word – He is a man of his word. Most Christians sometimes pray "vague" prayers which prolong or delay our request from God being answered. Probably this is one out many reasons why some Christians are still the same with no life progress. If you really want to pray to God then you need to study the word and memorized them to pray.

An effective meditation always begins with the word of God. You cannot meditate (contemplate) on an issue without a base issue – You cannot contemplate or brood over God's faithfulness, kindness and mercies without memorizing or studying God word. The fact is the word of God is everything in a believer's life. It is a manual that guides and shape your life as a Christian and if only you will read it, you will see the light that Jesus was preaching about that you shall you not walk in darkness but of light. Meditation can be equated to studying your course note to write an exam, and in this case the course note is the bible. You need to study the exam and conquer it in other to move to another level. Likewise you need to study, memorize and contemplate on God's word in your brain, though you don't have an immediate exam to write, there will surely be a test of faith as you walk in your Christian journey. You cannot do it on your own, the God almighty will sent forth the holyspirit to enlighten the words you have studied in you and make you fully believe and convince about His existence and his power.

IMPOTANCE OF THE WORD OF GOD

The word of God teaches us to relate well with one another. In God manual, the proud, arrogant to becomes humble. It teaches how to be trustworthy, commitment and integrity. There so many occurrences in the bible about relation with people from Adam to the last person in revelation which brings us lessons on how to relate to one another. Noah had a relation with his people at the time God spoke to him about the destruction of the world. Abraham had relation with the people he met in Canaan when God told him to leave his father's house to the land He promised him. Jesus the son of God related well with the people around him in order to speak the goodnews to them. We even relate to those we have confrontations and difficulties in understanding. We relate well with our enemies in so many ways. Relation brings so many disputes, exchange of harsh words and fight and such is human nature, we all not perfect but when we allow the spoken word (bible) to be our daily guide in our relation with friends, neighbors and families around us we might never have problem with anybody. We can do nothing without the holyspirit helping us to read and understanding. As you read your bible open up your hearts and let the word work in you. You'll know how to relate to your children.

The word of God is the true word which teaches about finances. Your finances is not in the hand of your employers – they are tools God use to rain financial blessing on you. Read God's instructions to tap in to more financial blessing and you'll understand how to be financially stable. Give and it shall come back to you, good measure, pressed down, shaking together and run over. Christianity does not give money but teaches how to make money according to the word of God. In the kingdom of God you give according to your faith as the spirit direct you and as your heart tell you. God, who created the heavens and the earth, is the same one that created money and when you give to support his kingdom He pours down financial blessings and breakthroughs unto man. Though Satan rules the world, God has the above authority than Satan. It is God who gives permanent money and riches while Satan own is a counterfeit of the original – he roar like a lion but never a lion. Satan's riches is full of blood sacrifice to pertaining to a brother or sister getting hurt or even dying but God's riches is a sacrifice of commitment with faith and personal devotion to Him and He will give it freely to everyone. Paul knowing all these encourage the Christians of Philippi that, they should give the little they have and God will give back to them, not the same way they gave but with a good measure (an amount that is good), pressed down(that amount has been double or triple, press with uncountable amount) and shaken together(that amount has been locational displaced with an action which is vertical, horizontally or oscillatory in motion) and run over(simultaneously wheeled together).

There are so many bible chapters you can refer to if your finances are not stable and there are many chapters in giving tithes, freewill offerings, church building offering, thanksgiving, to mention a few. You ought to claim your financial breakthrough as a Christ follower. Let us be aware of the fact that any social, psychological, emotional, physiological life of man is in the bible therefore every believer need to seek for the word of God and practice it in his life

The word of God brings you closer to God. In the book of Act chapter seventeen verse sixteen, Paul went to Athens in the Asian continent to preach the gospel and everywhere he pass, he notice idols and its worshippers, he came across an altar with the inscription "to the unknown god". Paul used that phrase and made them understand who the unknown god is, because they first call upon that god before they pray to their gods. They did not know of a supreme God but believe the he exist. Paul on other hand unleashes their ignorant by preaching to them and drew them closer to God. He was able to show them the God that existed which they knew nothing about him, his laws and commandment kept by the people of Israel who were the Jews. He preached God's son Jesus Christ who died on the cross for our transgression and rose again the third day. As he enlightened their heart to the word they received Christ as their personal savior and they drew closer to him. The word of God is the only tool that you can use to resist the devil's affliction. At a stage in a man's life, you are faced with so many problems difficulties and obstacles that you may hear many voices speaking within you. You may even forget you are a Christian because of those circumstances and may yield to the pressures of the voices speaking to you which may lead to sinning against God. Will you yield to the voice destruction or eternal life? The only thing helping you will be the word of God and praying. It is the word of that will encourage and teach you the verses and quote you have to clinch on. You encounter "fear note for I am with you" several times in the bible. You need to memorize the word to overcome the whirls the devil brings your way. God's word is the tool used to reject the activities of the evil one and the things of the flesh less our request and faith is jeopardized. Jesus was tempted after He fasted for forty days and night but He defeated Satan three consecutive times with the word of God, saying "It is written..." Jesus quoted from the word of God. If the son of God quoted then you need to quote to defeat the devil. May his word be established in your mind and heart that you will discern his word and be obedient to his calling on your life? In studying the word of God, the holyspirit within you reveals the topic to pray for and reveals hidden things that you do not think off. The holyspirit is a factor in reading and understanding the word and He is also the one that helps you to pray. You may not notice him but He is in you and what you will use to detect is the fruit it bears in you. He also brings gift from the father to man. Paul mentioned this when he was writing a letter to the people of Corinthian in first Corinthians chapter twelve verse eight to eleven. Everyone who is filled with the holyspirit has the gift in him. All you need is to identify and nature it to grow.

A WALK WITH CHRIST
CHAPTER FOUR

The Holyspirit

There is a question that raises up awareness in my spirit which I want to ask. What is the difference between a non-Christ follower and a Christ-follower? Adam is our great grandfather, our thinking and way of life should be the same. We have different believes and on who to follow as a leader in a faith. Buddhist believe is different from a Krishna's believe, Jewish believe is different from traditional believe and a Muslim believe is different from a Christian believe but we are all created by one God. To my understanding, though we are created by one supreme God (which presumably every one believes in), we have different mind, thoughts and approaches pertaining what we hear, see, or feel about our spiritual being. God is invisible to us yet we still believe he exists. Scientist may say there's no God but they have never proved the first day the world came into existence, so far as everyone has a spirit man as part of the third element that makes a man there is a connection with whom gives that spirit to man to become a living soul. It is this spirit that drives the will of man unto who to believe in a "spiritual God" you want to worship. Man was created to worship God, though his primary aim was to be the care taker of all God has created, he is representation of God on earth. However God gave man his will on what he choose to worship or not to worship and He's still the one - the Supreme Being man consult first. The fall of man brought a great separation from God, where man's thought is full of shame, pride, disagreement, disappointment and the entire negative attributes you can think off. Though was disappointed He never got entirely separated from man. He watches him from afar and draw near to him if man at one point call on him. Man proudness gave him a thought appease himself so he went on to build a tower that will be able reach the heavens, to make a name for himself and everyone will have a place inside the tower (Genesis 11:1) but God cause confusion among them and the tower was abandoned. Now let us see what man it made of, I earlier mentioned a spirit God gave us, we have our soul, and the third is Body. The spirit consists of our conscience and intuitions, the soul consist of your emotion, character and will, the Body is the flesh container that holds the spirit and the soul to become a full human being. God gave breathe to the creature He made out dust which represent his spirit to man. His breathe brought the soul of man to him think. His soul allow him choose to do whatever pleases him (his will). Man is always yearning for sin of his fall from the presence of God. Man creates objects to worship leaving his God that provide and gave him life. Man believes in what he created to worship and his soul is connected to it as his god (all because he always wants to make name for himself). The spirit man tends to bring the mind (soul) to God but to no avail (since the spirit is from God), the mind has already subjected to what he creates. God on the other hand, love what He created so much that he tends to forgive man and bring him back to his side (such a great love for man). He reveals himself to people He has chosen to worship him and be their God. Therefore who ever worship God, his spirit man connects to Him and he believes in His truth even though He (God) is not seen. God show man a way of life – a light to what he intended for him. His spirit was upon man where ever he goes. He was a pillar of cloud and fire in day time and night time respectively. At an appointed time this God send his son Jesus Christ as a Saviour to atone for the fall and replace them to their first position in God. Let us remember that man's will is still in his hands – He chooses to believe in the son of man or not, since He was sent by the supreme being (every prophesies and what he did testify he was from God) to fulfill a purpose on earth, therefore, there is a cause to believe in Christ. Bear in mind that the spirt man is not the same the holyspirit but it is a person that comes to sharpen the spirit man to be in tune with God.

Many people with diverse beliefs have risen with different doctrine and projections but none can be mentioned as the one that came for the world to be used to count time as AD (after death of Christ) and BC (before birth of Christ). Jesus Christ is the only man who died and rose again the third day as prophesied by the prophets of old. He is the generator (beginner) of Christians (Christ follower).Therefore the difference Christians and non-Christians is Christ followers or Christians are people who will follow Jesus in sickness and in health, in pain, sorrow, happy moment, in fire and in water, whiles non christ follower is one He is alive that makes Christians alive with the spirit of God. He sent the holyspirit to be our comforter when he ascended to his rightful place in heaven. The holyspirit has brought abundant grace; we could have kill our neighbors every now and then and destroy properties build by our own hands. it is the holyspirit that gives the grace to love one another and protect one another. we are mindful of the fact that Satan is in the world (even before the fall of man) to kill, deceive and destroy. It's the grace of God that over right what he plans to do with God's children. This holyspirit is from the Father-God and he possesses some attitudes that lead us to the right place with God. We need the spirit of God in every way as we walk with Christ

A Christian walk with Christ cannot be done by our own strength or might. In a better phrase; when you become Christ follower, everything of yours is Christ; He directs you and reshape your life. You only need to allow yourself for him to dwell in you.

The Holy Spirit is combination of two words; "Holy" and "Spirit". Spirit is a substance that can't be seen. It is either good or bad. The bad is mostly called evil spirit which comes to torment and possess man. An evil spirit always possesses man to destroy, put enmity between people and does not allow progression. he always wants to be in the dark. Every activities of evil never want to see the light and will not allow any body to see it. A good spirit is a spirit that is good. The spirit that God breathe in to man is the good spirit. It is the third element that made man and shows the existence of God in man. The good spirit is part of the holyspirit Jesus promised his disciples on his ascension day. The holyspirit is third person of the trinity (father, son, holyspirit) from God to make man whole; to direct and teach man the holy things of God and to have the likeness of God. He connects us to God by helping us to worship him. In John 4:22-23, Jesus told the Samaria woman, "you worship what you do not know; we know what we worship, for the salvation is of the Jews, but the hour is coming, and is now, when true worshippers will worship the father in spirit and truth; for the father is seeking true worshippers for himself". The Jews long lasting covenant with the father is to worship him and obey God and they see the goodness of God but they never considered it as the gift from the father to them. Jesus hidden truth about his statement is that, from the day he started his ministry to now, the Holy Spirit has come to stay in man without leaving him. All they need is to accept him and will come stay in their heart just like the Samarian woman and He will help them to worship God with pure heart, mind (true worship) and spirit. The holyspirit is a stream of living water to all who believe and receive him; they will receive a deep lasting inner peace and does not make us immune to temptation. He exposes you in your wrong doing; Ananias and Sapphire were exposed when they lie against the Holy Spirit. Act 5:3.

It is very difficult for man to allow himself to be guided by an invisible substance that you believe he exist and he's powerful to lead your way nevertheless, He's sure is the one that can keep you from following or going to the wrong places. Most at times we go our own way leaving Him at our back and when do not succeed we start nagging and blaming God for the situation we have put ourselves into. The holyspirit is the only one that takes your needs and request to God and brings back the result (serve as a spiritual telegram). He comforts your soul with new thoughts, ideas and insight revelations on what you will. Many Christians cause untimely death on themselves because they are not connected to the Holy Spirit. You need surrender to Christ who gave his life as a ransom for you on the cross which you believe and through him the holyspirit has made you whole. Walk with Christ beloved in Christ and you will see his glory.

One major attribute of the Holyspirit is to help us know the word of God. The manual for every Christian is the bible. Anybody who is capable of reading can take the bible to read, but after reading what understanding can you get from it. Does it mean something to you when you read? You may read to your understanding by your own strength but after a while you may forget what you've read. You cannot read the bible without the holyspirit. A certain eunuch tried it in Act 8:26 and he didn't succeed so God wanting to save him, took Philip to help him out. Philip went close to him and he was reading about the prophet Isaiah but didn't understand what he was reading. God used Philip for the Ethiopian eunuch to understand the scripture. Today, the bible is personal guidance book for everyone and the only time someone will teach or discus about it is when the saints meet in church or in a cells. It is up to individual to study on his own and understand. It is the holyspirit that can help you to understand the bible. It has been a difficult task and challenge for some Christians to read one chapter of the bible a day or even take the bible to read since they depend on their own strength. You can wake up early to pick a bus to work but will not wake early enough to read their bible or have a quiet time with your creator (God). When you are not filled up in spirit of God, you satisfy the desires of the flesh. You cannot pray without the holyspirit giving utterances on what to say, likewise the bible cannot be understood without the holyspirit giving you understanding. Now He who searches the heart knows what is in the mind of the spirit because He makes intercession for the saints according to the will of God. If you want to pray in the spirit to God then accept the holyspirit. Your mind may utter words in communing with God for a while, (because your words may finish) but the utterances of the Holyspirit has no boundary. The Holy Spirit brings an outward manifestation when you accept Him in your heart, and this is speaking in tongues. Since it is a language from God, God also accept it. You daily invite the holyspirit in your bible studies, He will give you understanding and reveal hidden mysteries from the bible to you. Draw near and walk with him and you will know and hear the thought of him better.

One thing about the holyspirit is that when you accept him he does not rest in your heart alone but it comes along with gift. 1corithians 12:1-11 and Romans 12:3-8 elaborate on the gift of the holyspirit. In the texts written, there is a unique sentence that is common in all, which is, "...for we have many members in one body, but the entire member does not have the same function..... The members refer to the individual in Christ (Christian filled with the Holy Spirit) and one body refers to the holyspirit from God. Christians filled with the holyspirit has in them the gifts of the spirit they need to operate in. All they have to do is seek him diligently. These gifts are irrevocable- it is to eternity and as you grow in the Lord, it increases also. the more you grow in your gifts also. You may operate in the entire nine fold gift if God has placed that in you, likewise you may operate in one or two. Individual who operates in this gift should bear in likeness (according to the direction of the spirit) with another person who operates in different gifts. Operating in the gift of the spirit is to redeem the lost to Christ, expose the activities of the devil in the dark, and glorify God for He is the supreme ruler. It is not to condemn God's creatures. Therefore a Christian manifesting in these gifts would not alter to his brother or sister, it is your mother, and father or relative is responsible for any kind of calamity because it is not from God. The spirit of God reveals to redeem; if you see spiritual things on your brother, it is God that is revealing it to you to redeem that person by praying with him or delivering him from that bondage. The spirit of God can be quenched with filth (sin) though irrevocable. The holyspirit is everything, from salvation to the fruit of the spirit, for that was the work of Jesus on earth – to baptise us with the power of the holyspirit unto salvation.

Jesus knew if he lives us like an orphan, we will go back to our sinful nature (the Adamic nature) so he promised the holyspirit to fill us, to become new creation for his good works. It is only the holyspirit that prompt us when we sin. If you sin without any promptings then you need to work on the spirit in you. We are in an era where man does not see anything wrong with masturbation, homosexuality, bisexuality, incest and other vices imputed by the devil because there is no promptings of the Holyspirit in them and they don't understand and read the word of God. The Holy Spirit fills you like a seed drop into a soil. When you leave it there without watering it will not grow and it will eventually die. You need to nourish the seed with right amount of sunlight, water and minerals in the soil. Then it will germinate and grow healthy in to beautiful and evergreen tree. It will never wither and it will bear fruit at its season. The right nutrient to be fed is the investment of prayer, fasting, studying and meditating on the word, and worshipping always at his presence. You need these to grow or feed the holyspirit in you. Your faith in God increases as you feed in this nutrient.

"I say then, Walk in the spirit and you shall not fulfill the desires of the flesh, for the flesh lust against the spirit and the spirt against the flesh and these are contrary to another" Galatians 5:16-17.

No one is born righteous from the mother's womb, before being born to earth God put a spirit in you to be a living being. You will detect the physical features of unborn baby through ultra sounds and other machines but you cannot determine if he will stay on earth of not. David said, "behold I was brought forth in iniquity and in sin my mother conceived Me." psalm 51:5.

We are all sinners and our mothers conceive us in sin because that is the course of the world (Satan rules). As his spirit is given to you to live on earth so is your spirit taken from you after you've finished your live on earth. Dust you were formed from and dust you shall return. It is expedient to seek the face of your creator rather than the lust of the world.

The people of Galatia knew about the holyspirit and salvation and what the holyspirit does but to be under the leadings of the holyspirit was a problem. They have to allow Him to work on them. Paul told them to walk in the spirit... To be able to walk from one distance to another, there should be a motive; it may be to obtain a price of success or failure but in either case there is a positive motive. A walk in your spiritual life require a motive, to work on your spirit man through the holyspirit that you may not fulfill the lust of the flesh and for you to be in likeness with God, for no one can please God with his flesh. In walking, you will read, study with patience and practice the walk. Whatever exists in the physical has already existed in the spiritual, therefore when you pray to the father in spirit you get your result in physical for everyone to know the great things He has done. Every character or attitude you want to change in the physical when you activate a chain communication (prayer, fasting..., physically) to him, the physical will manifest as a changed person.

The flesh and the spirit are two different entities which don't meet unless agreed by your will. The flesh is filled with worldly feelings which do not conform to the spirit of God. You normally make this statement, "I feel like....the presence of God is here". Paul is saying there are two different roles. To feel does different role in the flesh whiles the holyspirit also different role in the spirit to guide you to the right path according God's commandments and you subject the flesh and soul to obey the holyspirit that works on your spirit man. You don't feel the presence of God at a particular place but according to His word, he says "if two or more gather in my name to pray I the Lord am in there mist." so where ever you are mentioning the name of God, you believe that he is there and He surely is in your mist. Your feelings might lead you to the lust of the flesh which is Galatians 5:19; fornication, adultery, uncleanness, jealousy, selfish ambitions and others. Likewise, the holyspirit will lead you to change of the flesh and refined you as gold in the character of Godliness with love, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, gentleness and others in the same book and chapter of Galatians verse 22.

The focus of your walk with Christ in this book is to know Him more and live right according to his word. Let His beauty be seen in you and be a witness to others who don't know and believe in the great love of Christ. You need to walk in the spirit to fulfill the things of the spirit. It may be hard but it all begins with a step.

THE FRUIT OF THE SPIRIT

Before we look at the fruit of the spirit let mention the things that make up the flesh. The flesh consists of emotion, mind, character and attitude. This is inherited from three sources; by birth, family and society. Through birth, fleshy desires are inherited from the curse generation of man (Genesis 3:2). Every man is born with peculiar trait that to the way he will live in this world, being it pride, arrogant, betrayal and rest. Jacob and his brother struggle in the womb of their Rebekah their mother because Jacob (the younger) wants authority over Esau (the eldest). Genesis 25:19. The bible describe Jacob as mild (that is gentle, temperate, nonirritating) but very cunning while Esau was wild and skillful. The trait of Jacob is directly from the mother's womb to destroy his brother even though that was God's plan. Jacob was born with it and there is nothing no one can do about it.

Some traits are also inherited from the society, that is, friends, colleagues, your neighborhood and everywhere you find yourself. This type of character is picked up or copied "wrongly" if I can say that. You are in a high school which a boarding school, from humble and peaceful home, you want to feel the other side of life so you be-friend the wrong school mates, School mates who smokes, lesbians, homosexuals, fornicators, liars, cheaters, drinks and the rest, from where they come from to the school. You will definitely copy those lifestyle and add to yours and burry your character of Godly leaving. The most ironic thing is that those people are not influence to be living a good character but rather they influence good to be bad. If one is born in an environment of burglars, thieves, school dropout, profane speaking and harsh talking disrespecting elders, there is a sixty percent chance of the child imitating that character in the society. This also goes down to the upbringing of the child in his family. Therefore, there are character traits which is inherited form the family. What you are is what you teach your children. If you want your child to live a life that is contrary to yours, you will start with that life for the child to copy and live. Some children may not want to live like that as they grow up but a continuous progress and prayer can let the child realise where he stands and immediately go back on track to the teachings of his parent.

The works of the flesh

Galatians 5:19-20

Now the works of the flesh are evident which are adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lewdness, idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions, jealousy, drunkenness, revelries and the like.

Paul wrote of these to Galatians who are in the church yet their desire is the fleshy lives they lead. They act like Christ followers outwardly (daily routine) but they have not let go their old ways. We are the Galatian church today in our churches and we seem to be comfortable because we branded ourselves with the saying "Christianity is in the heart and not our outward look". Our body can be used for anything provided we have Christ as our Saviour in our heart. If this is so, how can we determine who a Christian is in his appearance and deeds? A man does not defile himself with what goes in his body but what comes out of his body. In as much as Christ is in your heart, he has to reflect in what you do. I pray that you will realise your actions and consciously return to Christ with your whole self – body, mind, and soul to the teachings of God as you walk with Christ. No one is perfect or righteous including me, but we try to attain righteousness through the son, Jesus Christ, who was brought to be atonement for our sins, therefore we should imitate him in character and his ways on how He led his followers. In emulating, the old character of the flesh is changed and refined in a new character which Paul termed the fruit of the spirit in Galatians 5:22 to be love, peace, long suffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. And such, there is no law. Those are in Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live in the spirit let us also walk in the spirit.

The fruit of the spirit does not provoke one another and does not bring envies. Its paramount factor is love. When you love your brother, you don't pay him back in his own coin. Christ salvation is given to all but for the holyspirit to be poured on you, you need to avail yourself to experience his touch, and then He will work on you to make you a new man. You need to die with the flesh passion and desire. His blood will soak your fleshy desires and will return a new desire in the spirit for you to walk with Christ. I pray you yearn for the spirit and walk in him uprightly. Like a dust of Gold that need to pass through heat, to be refined in to a bright sparkle ornament,... as Christ followers, we need to pass through heat to burn our flesh desires into the fruit of the spirit. To be used by God for our possession. That heat is never pleasant, it is full of test, temptation, pain, sorrowful moment, hardship but the holyspirit is in us to see us through, to help us through that awful heat.

When the holyspirit came upon the disciples in Act 2, they spoken in tongues as an evidence of the holyspirit and they manifested in the gifts of the spirit also. The holyspirit doesn't settle on us just like that, but dwell in us and gives evidence for all to witness the gifts is in us. The gifts by the holyspirit are manifested if you continue to dwell under the wings of God. The gift is first manifested by Peter one of the disciples of Jesus which made him profess the gospel boldly to all around them on the day of Pentecost. These gifts are irrevocable since the holyspirit cannot be revoke too. It brings liveness and mighty power among members of Christ. There are works of miracles and diverse signs and wonders God brings to the church. 1corithians 12:4, Paul mention diversity of gift the holyspirit impact us with, when we are baptized with the holyghost. He states word of wisdom, knowledge, gift of faith, gift of healings, working of miracle, gift of prophecy, gift of discerning, gift of speaking interpretation of tongues. In all there are nine (9) fold gifts of the spirit and everybody can exhibit atleast one of the gifts. It operates differently according to the individual but it is the same spirit that gives the ability. if I have the ability to work miracles according the spirit you should not go contrary and condemn or envy someone with the ability to use gift of faith to work miracle because it all from the same source which is the holyspirit. The bible says in Roman 12:3 that through the grace given to me (Paul), to everyone among you not to think highly to him more than he ought to think but to be soberly, as God has dealt to each one a measure of faith. The interesting part of the gift is when Christians get to know about their gifts, they see themselves as more powerful than others. In our generation today, some young Christians who call themselves with big titles of bishops, pastors, Reverend, Evangelist and the like (while they may not have been ordained as such) may realise his gifts (which may one gift) and operates in it, thinking high of himself as personally doing all the signs and wonders, would use it be the most powerful "man of God" and hailing himself with the miracles he performs. Paul, who operated in all the gift of the spirit, did not think of himself as highly or powerful but he encourages the churches he wrote to in faith to be spiritually humble and respect his fellow workers of God's vineyard. In verse four (4) of Romans chapter twelve (12), he said; for as we have many members in one body but all the members do not have the same function. One member cannot also standalone to work; he needs the whole members to function well. You cannot have one gift of the holyspirit and leave the church to establish your own church all in the name of "your mother church is hindering you from not using your gift". If I have the gift of discerning and another has a gift of working in miracle and another gift of prophesies, they are all gift of the spirit from one body – Christ. It is only pagans who don't know what love is and abhor evil in them. You operate in one gift and another operates in two or more doesn't make you to envy him or be a "stumbling block on the way". God dealt with each one according to his faith. For this I write; Let nothing be done through selfish ambition or conceit, but in holiness of mind Let each esteem others better than himself. Let each of you look out not only for his interest but for the interest of others Philippians 2:3-4.

Do's and Don't

"With such things there is no law"

In every society, there are laws regulating the affair of that society. Narrowing it to Christianity, there are laws that govern the Way a Christian should live. Likewise a Christian has laws to obey about the holyspirit if he wants to live according to the ways of the spirit (walking in the spirit). Dos and don'ts are the activities or actions that a Christian shouldn't or should do

As I stated earlier, the only way to obey the law is to abide in the word and spiritually disciplining yourself with prayer, fasting, meditation (there is attitude of Christian now a days. They use social media as a way of reading the Bible; they use the devotion someone posted to a page as a means of reading the word. It is a good advantage as a means of propagating the gospel but a disadvantage as well. Why? To some they may just read it without taking anything from it. They don't pray before reading, they just have the word, at the end they just read and the next day they forget, this result in the word not staying in their hearts. What they need to do is to have time with God personally by praying, reading God's manual and waiting upon God. Maybe they thought they have been saved already so there's no need. The holyspirit cannot be revoked. So whenever he fills you, all you need is make him grow and glow. There are certain times as humans we choose not to cherish what we have. We tend to grieve the holyspirit by doing what is unlawful against by our body.

The Bible says grieve not the spirit of God. The holyspirit is also person and add up to make Godhead (the Trinity). He is the last person that came to be with man. God the Father, was with man from the beginning, Jesus the son also came to fulfill his part and now the holyspirit. The Godhead work hand in hand (intertwine) with each other. Jesus spoke about a comforter to replace him and he is the holyspirit. This Jesus mentioned that; you can sin against the son of Man and you will be forgiven but when you sin against the holyspirit, you'll not be forgiven. We walk to a true righteousness and with totality of the holyspirit working in us which depends on our "put offs" concerning former conduct (the old man) which grows corruptible and deceitful lust. When this old conduct is still in a born again Christian, he may turn to grieve the spirit in him.

Ephesian 4:22-32

Paul mentioned some old conduct which sorrow and grieve the spirit of God in man because he doesn't hear the holyspirit neither does he knows the holyspirit in him. Paul said we grieve the spirit by lying to each other, angry, stealing, corruptible words from your mouth are prune to the devil to use you. Therefore, in order not to grieve the spirit, all bitterness, and wrath, anger, clamor and evil spirit be put away from you and the holyspirit will work in you and use you. Let us allow the holyspirit to teach you all truth for that is his work. He is a seal in us, a guarantee that we belong to God. He helps us to worship God, for the Bible says we ought not to weary in pray but the spirit gives us ability with groaning.

Let us not grieve or make the holyspirit in us sorrowful for with our odd attitudes for he lives in us and he convict us when go wrong and shape us to the right path. Can you imagine the world without holyspirit there will be more evil and brutality than good? Let these words of His impart your life; transform you as you walk with Christ. Never look back to your old ways but try to put on a new creation with the holyspirit as an anchor.

Against such things there is no Law.

Those, whose lives are adorned by the above virtue (fruit of the spirit) , cannot be condemn by any law, for the whole purpose and design of the moral law of God is fulfilled in those who have the spirit of God, producing in their hearts and lives the preceding fruits.

It is very hard and difficult for man to turn "one night" you be a good person. Even if you make up your mind, there will be hindrances either from friends and close relations or yourself. I am a melancholic and a believer, I cannot boost of myself of all the fruits of the spirit growing in me but I believe I am on the right way. The most difficult fruit I found hard to bear is meekness and patience. I always want things done as fast as I request for it. When I ask something from God or anybody, I put all faith and trust in that he will answer meet right away. I'll wait till... but will not get it. I pray for answer and directions and will get no response from God. Then one day I was reading Galatians chapter 5. Then the Holy Spirit gave me the rhema to understand the fruit of the spirit. I asked myself do I possess all this virtues. I read Adam Clark commentary explaining the fruit of the spirit, then I felt stack and choked when I was reading the explanation about meekness and patience. I felt I need to wait a little longer, I need this seed to grow in me; not to be revengeful on whoever offends me and also wait patiently on God's time to come to pass in my life. I was sinning and under the law because I was not possessing the virtue meekness and patience. Immediately I realized these I have moved from the "under the law to there is no Law". I am not sinning because I don't hold people issues anymore in my heart and I am not planning to take revenge on them also. God's spirit meekness has filled me and I am not subject to be condemned by law of God.

You also have the chance to live freely under no Law if only you will realize your things of the flesh and ask God to take up all things of the flesh and speak a good seed inside your heart that it will be a good fruit, which is the fruit of the spirit.

A WALK WITH CHRIST
CHAPTER FIVE

The Anointing

Anointing is a tangible, powerful manifested presence of God. Anointing is experience by anybody – both Jew and Gentile. For through the blood of Jesus we have been saved, not with animal's blood that the Jews will claim priority to condemn Gentile but through the blood of Jesus. God has given to everyone who believes in Jesus as their personal Savior, to be baptized with his spirit and water and stay continuously in his presence. In my previous writing I demonstrate how to walk with God and what you will need to walk with him. You need the power of God and the wisdom of God. When you go to school, your entire goal is to be the first in class. You start studying hard and having extra studies ahead of your peers. Your colleagues may have some mind and goal as you but it takes determination and focus to be part of the top. The Anointing of God is not on a believer for nothing; to accomplish a purpose. The grace and favor of God bring that Anointing unto us and it is also called power of God. It also comes with persistence and consistent praying to God. Everybody's level of Anointing is different from the other which also depends on the level of faith. In the old law, people are anointed to be the king of Israel like David and Saul who were the second and first kings of Israel. One proceeded to be King then the other followed and they were anointed by one man but they were with different faith level. David's Anointing was to be a king but God used him more than that because of his social ability. He was a poet and a chief musician as well. He praises God in every action he takes and the Lord brought victory always to him. He loved, love God with heart humbleness – he easily repent from his sins and ask for forgiveness from God. Saul's heart was never with God; he depended on man- what people want rather than what God want him to do. So many people a part from David were anointed but their ways were full of evil.

In this era of grace dispensation anybody can be used by God and it depends on your availability. John 4:14 states clearly that, But whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him will never thirst but the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water, the infilling of the holy spirit and that spirit will overflow into a fountain of water unto everlasting. Others will benefit from this Anointing. You cannot be anointed without the Holy Ghost. The Holy Spirit fills you then the Anointing comes for greater works. Anointing comes to break evil and demonic boundaries. It comes to make a personality unique. David anointing and skills in playing his harps were able to flee Saul's evil spirit tormenting him.

The word of God is propagated and souls are worn because of the Anointing to preach Jesus anointed his disciples to go in the neighboring town to preach the word and they came back with good news and joy of the soul and miracles done by them. In fact, every gifts and talents God gave you carries a level of Anointing and it is up to every individual to increase in those works. The power to sing a song for a soul to be healed or be delivered from his old dark ways depends on the anointing that the Christian carries.

Do you carry the Anointing of God on your life?

Many are called but few are chosen. The vineyard of God is very huge and he has called us to work on his field (he is still calling). Everyone has a portion to work on; all you need is obey and trust in him. In your walk with him, he is teaching you everything you need to know to work and you obey. It is time for you to implant his teachings he has offer you to produce the results. In doing so, you need to use your gift the Holy Spirit gave you. You identify your gifts and use it to bring other souls to God's vineyard, set the captives free and those in bondage, the sick and weary be healed. The apostle did it when the spirit of God filled them and they spoke in tongues, three thousand souls were worn that very day. Consequently there was daily add up and they taught them according to how Jesus's principle, the lame walk, the sick were healed and the blind see. The disciples manifested in all the gifts Paul wrote about according their faith unto the glorification of God's name. A biblical example is in the book of Act chapter 4 – the lame at the temple gate where Peter John pass to the temple. Act 5:1, Peter discerns through the spirit of God about Ananias and Sapphire plot; they sold as a plot of land to be used as an offering to the Lord. They deceive the church about the amount they sold it and the holyspirit through Peter's mouth struck them and they died. What is your gift and what are doing with it for God. Some have buried their gifts and others use it for their personal gains. We daily grieve the Holy Spirit because we don't obey him. The time is coming and it's now that true worshippers must worship the father in spirit and truth. If you are really for God do thing according to God order. Worship him alone in hard times and good times, let his words be in your mouth that you may do something for God, fulfilling the call he has called you for. A true worship brings anointing of God upon your life.

One hidden secret is that when you are under the power of God's Anointing, no darkness can stand against you for you are a light that lightens all dark Places. You feel in you are another being with the auction of God. When David sang and danced with auction on him no enemy could stand against him and when he spokes it carried power to make his wife (King Saul daughter) barren. If all Christians are to reach this position with God anointing then Christ would have come already and sin and evil in man would have ended. The world would not be full of darkness

I pray we persevere extra in doing the work of God that we may reach this level with his anointing manifesting the power of God. Remove laziness, procrastination from your life and be determined to finish the race with a crown of glory. It is the anointing of God that breaks every yoke. Being a Christian calls for increase in learning; adding one block to the other. Do not be just a Christian or believer but an anointed Christian or believer. Breaking of the yoke set pace for every block path to prosperity be open and every door shut against your request be open by the power of Jesus Christ.

Two kings were anointed with oil by the same prophet in the life of the Israelite. They were Saul and David. Saul was the first king and David was his successor, 1sam 10:1 and 1sam 26:17. The account of their works in the Bible indicates that David pleased God more than Saul. Therefore, God at some point called David a man after my own heart while Saul was just a king (disobedient one). They were all anointed by oil as called to be kings. David was able realize that he cannot be able to do this call without God. He waits on God and listens to him in every action he takes. David never relies on his own strength but God. Saul on the other hand did the opposite; he was an eye service King – pleasing the people who are full with complains and grievances instead of waiting and hearing from God on what he should do. Saul always takes authority in to his own hands and makes his own decisions and judgements for God and the people of Israel and he always disobey God's commandment. Saul decrease in anointing instead of increasing in the anointing poured in him as a king until a time came and the spirit of God left him and God impute an evil spirit to torment him. David increases in anointing because of his faithfulness to God. These two show the level of input they need to put in order to be close to God and demonstrate his power. Saul will communicate with Samuel to speak to God on his behalf and was never apologetic. Saul was anointed with the oil but he didn't do well as God's King heading over the people of Israel.

David said in one of his Psalms "one thing I desire of the Lord that I'll dwell in the house of the Lord forever ". David's heart and mind was to know God well and see his beauty and not to be an ordinary King to order people around. David was an anointed King. God increased him in his skills of playing the harps and won him many battles. He even gave him the gift of poet writing which is recorded as Psalms in the holy Bible. God's anointing was upon him and he became more fearful and mighty King ever lived. Draw near to God that he will also draw near to you.

A WALK WITH CHRIST
CHAPTER SIX

TIME

I have my tears and sorrows and I had questions for tomorrow. There were times that I didn't know right from wrong but in every situation, God gave blest consolation. A consolation of Christ accompany with the Holy Spirit to be my help and comforter. In times of troubles and sorrows, happiness and pain, God was there to take the heavy load out of me. Time made me realized that these entire trials only came to make me strong. We are made Strong in the Lord and his word and strong in prayer to fight spiritual battles through the name of Jesus Christ. Time is an important thing in the lives of all people and every living thing under the sun. As Genesis chapter 3 verse 18 says "from dust you were created and dust you shall return" One cartoon a television station showed once when I was growing up; "do animals go to heaven". There were characters of animals, mostly the protagonist are the good animals whiles the antagonist play the bad animals. I saw dogs who are good to their fellow masters going to heaven whiles bad animals was taken by huge creatures to the dark side as they called it. My lesson from it is that everyone has a life span on this earth. It can be days monthly, years – there is surely an end. Every one time is different. The preacher from Ecclesiastes chapter 3 elaborates more on the time, that everything has its time and season under the sun. God provides cycles of life, each with its work for us to do. Though we may face so many challenges that contradict God's plan for us, it should not be barriers to believing in him but opportunities to discover that without God life's problem has no lasting solutions.

A time came when Jesus Christ was on earth; his main purpose was to reconcile man to God, Revelation 5:1. Everyone has a period (time frame) to do as he wishes with life - In times of sorrow, pain, trials, temptation, joy, happiness, laughter and peace. What do you do with your time? As a Christian walking with Christ, are you backsliding from the presence of God or you have become strong, having faith in the Lord even if your physical body is weak. As for me I have learned to move with him and never fear what will happen to me tomorrow because if I live, I live in the Lord and if I die, it is gain, and with Christ in the vessel I will smile at the storm.

I want to encourage you not to lose hope and faith in Jesus, the son of the living God. So far as there is God living, Jesus is still alive and the holyspirit is working in miracles, signs and wonders. Surely it shall tarry but it will come to pass. God needs your submission, patience and righteousness more than anything. He needs you to serve him alone with all that you have with your mind and heart and your contact with him should be like the clothes you wear.

Paul says, there is no favoritism between gentile and Jews. First the Jews were given the law and were the eye of God but through the grace we the gentiles are partakers of the covenant which was primarily given the Jews. We all will be judged according to our deeds on earth. The rich will be judged likewise the poor. No one wants to be born poor or rich but as we live, there are some people who have never experience suffering in their life time. therefore writing about Christianity suffering may be a problem or an extinct thing in their ears but there is a narration between Jesus and a rich man in the book of Mathew chapter 19 verse 16 to 24, the rich man is willing to follow Jesus and wants to have eternal life but when Jesus saw his heart, he realise that he cannot leave his riches aside and follow Christ whole heartedly, so after his interrogation with Jesus, he left, and this what Christ said "it is easy for a camel to enter the eye of a needle than a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God". A rich man mostly depends on his wealth by protecting it with his strength and his capabilities. He thinks not of anything else because he has what it takes to buy anything in this world (money). The saying; the love of money is the route of all evil, has made it possible for the devil to use money to take people away from the presence of God; Typically with some Christians who God has blessed financially as well. He pleases himself with the money and let the money rule over him. He becomes arrogant, selfish, and proud and takes up the Adamic nature again and the devil uses him for his work.

Do not be conformed to the things of the world but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. The things of this world are flashy and enticing and such is what money buys. You may have all the money but do not have love, peace of mind and joy in your life. If there is something you need to buy with your money, it is Jesus Christ; unfortunately Jesus is not for sale, out of Love that the father (God) loves this world so much that he gave his only begotten son to pay for the price of our sins by dying on the cross of Calvary for us. He who believes in him shall not die but have eternal life. Everlasting life not bought with money else the rich will possess all. You will not go through pain before but because Christ is the one who took your pain and suffering, therefore you need to accept him as your Saviour. Let go of your love for money and material things, release yourself emotionally, mental and psychologically from the stress of financial or material things being your paramount headache in life and focus on God, the author and finisher of our faith. Beloved, get me not wrong about money because everyone needs it especially believers propagating the gospel, when you make it your priority in life (without money or wealth you cannot do anything) then it has become a god you worship.

Why Zacchaeus did declared to Jesus immediately he saw him and went to his house his asset. He said "Look Lord, I give half of my goods to the poor and if I have taken anything from anyone by false accusation, I restore four fold'. Zacchaeus was a wealthy tax collector (chief) but didn't know Christ. He extorts money from people and he loves doing it because he is a sinner (all tax collectors at that time are regarded as sinners) and he is a high grade tax collector- chief tax collector. When salvation came to his house, he saw things differently and God light brightened his heart and his entire household. He chose to give to the poor than to keep all those wealth to him. You cannot serve two masters – you cannot be the lover of money and love Christ at the same time, rather you accept Christ, love him , know his ways, then all you desire he will give unto you, even in abundant.

Now, how much time do you solely spend in the presence of God? As you walk with Christ, this much important than anything else. The life of a true and faithful Christian is his communication to his maker (God). No one comes to the presence of God and live the same. Every little time spent with God does something new in your life. It increases you spiritually and opens your heart to receive him more, I pray you will continue to stay in his presence, as He told his chosen people, "I am the LORD thy God walk in me and be blameless". In your walk with Jesus, He changes you from glory to glory; his light overshadows you from earthly things to the heavenly things till his image is perfected in you and through you the light is shown to the world.

A time spent with God is waiting on Him. Moses was with God on the mount of Sinai for forty (40) days and nights, when he descends no human was able to look at his face. His face shone brightly that he places a veil upon his face if he should talk to his people. What is waiting? From thesaurus dictionary waiting is to rest, pause, and delay. The same dictionary give synonyms of "waiting on" as attend, care for, arrange, deliver or minister. In all this synonyms there is a unique moment called time and second person. There is a period allocated to do something or get attention of someone which will either yield a good result or bad result (in this case bad result doesn't count). Moses rest or delay in the presence of God, not for anything else but to receive from Him what He (God) wants him to do. Moses knew who has called him to lead the Israelite so he always goes to his presence for directions and guidance and all that he needs.

In today's society, we get close to God when in a Sunday service. The rest of the days are for work, businesses and everything we find our hands on. We wake up as early as possible to work without talking to our maker and come home as late as possible. We chase after money thereby spending all our time on a single thing all days. We become tired to the extent that the Sunday church service is even a problem for us to wake up early to go. I pray that at this deadly hour, you will be able to analyze and conceive your stand in Christ and work towards walking with Christ than with the devil. You need to allot a quiet time for reading and studying the bible, praying, meditating on the word, time to fast and draw strength from the Lord. There is always a time in twenty four (24) hours to draw near to God if only you set your mind do it. May God give you the enablement through the power of the holyspirit? Church activities are important in the life of every Christian, therefore you should make it a prerogative duty to do something in the house of the Lord for when the trumpet sounds and the books are opened, everyone will be judge according to his or her deeds.

FEAR

First Timothy chapter 6 verses 7 say ... For he has not given us the spirit of fear but of sound mind, love and self-control. Everyone has a fear of something in one way or the other. We all fear of what will become of us tomorrow so we prepare for tomorrow. Everyone knows that death in uncertain and there will come a point in time we will be weak and can't work anymore, we work in the present day to cater for the future. We leave inheritance for our children so that our children won't suffer or be in the same situation we were. When the Israelite were led by God, they were fed with manna and God told them to leave some for their generation to see and witness the great God that deliver them from the hands of the cruel Egyptian (in the ark of covenant the manna is in it). In our fear, we make decisions, choices that will lead us to unexpected end in the future. You never know where you are going until you take a step. Three promises did God made to Joshua. He told Joshua fear not, be strong and be courageous and be not dismay for the Lord your God is with you forever. Be strong and courageous was mention about thee (3) times from verse one to nine of Joshua chapter one. It means that Joshua was afraid to the core on how to lead this people – Israel. He doesn't know what the future holds for him and his people in his human mind but as God spoke he believes, he believes when he rested on him with all his mind, heart, and soul.

Christianity today has the same traits. God may reveal your future to you but the courage and boldness to face it and achieve it is the problem. There may be revelation about spiritual battles you need to fight in your family but fears have hindered you from progressing. Fear presses our progress and hinders us from exhaling higher spiritually. Fear is an abstract of the mind that is evil or negative thinking. It is a false, Evidence, Appearing to be Real. Imagining negative thoughts that reflect on your whole physical body and restricting you from the real evidence of truth. Fear can bring timidity, procrastination, depression, danger, lack of spirit, disloyalty and other harmful effect to your body. Satan is the main causative agent of the fear on Christians apart from our mind. There is a saying that the devil finds work for idle people. Every individual has an iota of fear in him. It depends on you individual to allow that fear to manipulate you. Christians are mostly prone to these fears because he has swear to follow Christ alone and the devil try ways and means to draw him back to his side. The devil is no respecter of person. Whether you are a Pope or Bishop or anybody else he will attempt you. Therefore where a Christian is left alone, his mind should be fed with the word of God, prayer, worship to God. This is what Paul told Timothy, the Holy Spirit is you even if you are afraid remember that God does not give us the spirit of fear but of person power love and sound mind. Christians must not be afraid of them. Demons tremble at the presence of the name of Jesus so they don't have power over us. Fear can be overcome by quoting, reading and studying the word of God. Fear is always related to your flesh (body). When the spirit of God is burning in you, your flesh doesn't conform to your spirit, the Holy Spirit subdue your flesh that you don't do the things of the flesh. Three hundred and sixty five (365) times does "fear not" counted in the Bible making each day a reminder of God's word to you that FEAR NOT.

HOLINESS

It is of the view today, that there is no such thing as holiness; true holiness was in the days of the Bible. This is a false perception in it totality. The earth and heaven may change but my word remains forever says the Lord. It is us who has changed. God says be holy for I am holy (Leviticus 19) has not change, the word of the Lord remain the same. I pray that reading this book you will follow God the days of your life and be holy.

Do we have "Total Holiness?"

Total holiness could mean perfect purity (holiness). I believe only God can reach that point as pure and perfect. God who is unseen told us he doesn't like filth. When God gave the Israelite the promise land he has already allocated the places for burying dead bodies, disposal of their refuse, feces and their habitation area. This explains the holiness of God how they should clean their environment. They have holiness of their body – steps on how to clean their body. Holiness is a state of setting apart by sanctifying and devoting one's life to God. A Bible dictionary definition states; a personal holiness is a word of gradual development. It is carried on under many hindrances hence the frequent admonition to watchfulness, prayer and perseverance from this definition, deduce that holiness can be interrelating personally by sanctifying and devoting yourself to God. Relating with God by sanctifying and devoting yourself for the good works of God. Two forms of holiness helps individual draw upright to God; communal holiness and personal holiness. Man was made righteous in the beginning of creation. Ephesians 1 verse 4, just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. Man main purpose of creation is to worship God all day and night but with disobedience through Christ Jesus, predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will to praise and worship Him as it was in the beginning. Yet in our worship he said; it is like a filthy tag before Him so then who is holy and upright before God. We all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and through Christ we have been raised in to the position of being his sons and daughters. Being the sons of God doesn't make us totally holy before Him; we are all trying to attain that holiness. Therefore no one is holy except God and we are trying to attain to position of holiness. This doesn't mean Christ is not in us rather we are humans with flesh and blood and in the world of sin. What we see, say is a sin before God, and our walk is a sin before God. God loves us so much that he calls us into his presence. We ought to make use of every opportunity to draw near to Him. In the beginning of this book, I show you God promises of the hidden things in which we cannot have unless we draw near to Him to reveal to us hidden things through his spirit in us.

In our walk with Christ you need to portray holiness inwardly and outward. Your holiness will stand before God (Rev. 15:4). If you will abide, give keen interest to the guidelines of this book, you will see God's glory. We often read; Abraham the father of many nations, Moses, Jacob, Isaac and other prophet and priest who obey the voice of God were holy before God. We can also be these people in this generation. It takes a gradual process and so many hindrances may come your way but with perseverance, diligence and patience we will reach that level. Be able to overcome every hindrance and obstacles through the blood of Jesus. Stand firmly on rocky ground have faith to move mountain and be courageous and strong as in Ephesians 6 verse 14 .......having girded your waist with truth, and put on the breast plate of righteousness and other things you can withstand the fiery dart of the wicked one. It is only holiness that can allow you to stand before God to ask for need and want, bringing to condemnation the acts and vices of the devil. Let love abide in you that is extended to your neighbours, for God is love and love is pure.

Today's world is not different from the Bible, man has changed the way he worship God. He chooses his time to go to God in prayer and that time may not be enough. He chooses to use his gift and talent in the work in God's vineyard. He is not subduing to the authority of the holyspirit therefore act as lukewarm. The flesh is full of pride, selfishness and lust when we are doing our daily activities. Humbleness, obedience we portray when we come into the presence of God.

What are doing in secret that nobody knows about? God is watching.... The church of Laodicea, He told them, I will vomit you out of my month.... Because you say, "I am rich, have become wealthy, and have need of nothing – do you not know that you are wretched, miserable, poor and naked (Revelation 3:16 -17) – your worship is like a filthy rag before God. Do not do things to please anyone. You work to become a child of God that you may walk side by side with Him, know his voice and desist from doing evil and He giving you all you that you desire. And you shall be caught in the heaven in the last days and you will reign with him in paradise.

Christ second coming is near, are you prepared to join him paradise? We are human beings created by God to take care of his creations. What will you tell him if you meet him face to face? Will he say go away from me, you unfaithful servant or he will say well done, you faithful servant for you has been truthful with these talents... I'll give you more. We shall all give account of the lives we lead on earth, when the day of judgement comes I pray that your name be in the book of life that you will reign with Christ forever.

Like me on Facebook, twitter, Instagram if you want more how to live as a child of God

Facebook: jacoblena2006@yahoo.co.uk

Twitter: #FortuneseeChrist

Gmail: fortama115@gmail.com

For more information please write to

Egyiri Paintsil memorial Worship center

P. O Box MD 908

Madina Estate

Accra

_A walk with Christ_ Page 50

