 
IN THE NAME OF GOD

ACCUSATIONS AND ANSWERS

VOLUME 2

### P ZAINUL ABIDEEN

ISBN-13: 978-1505911725

ISBN-10: 1505911729

© onlinepj.com All Rights Reserved

PUBLISHER'S NOTE

We have published 3 books to answer the accusation against Islam.

The first book "Does Islam snatch away the Rights of Women?" has explained the answers of accusations against woman in Islam. In this book Talak (divorce), Hijab ( Burqa, covering the body of the lady in decent way) a dress to protect the woman's body and dignity, Multi marriages (Polygamy)and the Law of Inheritance (share of wealth in partition) are all discussed. Jizyah is the tax levied on Non-Muslims in a Muslim Kingdom, the Muslims paid Zakat, as tax to the government. This book has been delivered in many publications, which shows that it has impact on the society.

To fight with the Kafirs, worshiping Kaaba Mosque and worshiping directions are the other accusations answered in the book "Accusations and Answers".

The Prophet married eleven times and it is accused by others. In the book "Why did Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) marry many women?" it is explained elaborately.

In the book "Intelligent questions and wise answers" elucidate the answers logically for Non-Muslims. If anyone read all the four books get relevant answers for all accusations. In this seventh edition of the "Accusations and Answers" we have rearranged and added many explanations to answer all possible accusations on Islam.

I believe this book will be clear all the doubts arising out of these accusations. I pray Allah to strength our explanations and our belief not to be shattered.

# 1

# Islam is Against Permanent Birth Control

Due to excessive population India suffers from poverty. In this situation Islam opposes family planning. While the other religious people follow family planning, Muslim only opposes family planning and increases their population. It is an obstacle for the economic growth of India. This is one of the accusations charged by Non-Muslims on Muslims.

We have to analyze this accusation in many ways.

Scarcity not due to Population Growth

Let us scrutinize the accusation that "Is the population growth a cause for food scarcity, dwelling, and poverty". Poverty and scarcity was prevalent in the past even when there was less population. If we reduce the population of world, from 50 Billion to 50 Million then also there will be people starving for food.

Scarcity due to wrong distribution

Food production was made in excess while there was less population and also when the population growth raises excessively. Now there are 50 billion people are in the world, but we produce food items for 100 billion people. Some do not get now also. It is because food stuff is stagnant in some place only. Moreover, proper method to distribute it is not maintained, due to wrong distribution system. When poor countries are struggling to get food, rich countries throw the food stuff in the sea.

In the down trodden countries, while the poor is suffering to get a day's meal, arrogant affluent countries waste the food stuff and their economy extravagantly. This is the real reason for the scarcity of food for the poor.

In India there are 1 Billion live. 50 Million have the wealth of 2 Billion people. If 1 Billion people were decreased to be 100 Million people, the poverty and scarcity will not be eradicated. Even then 10 Million people will be starving. .5 Million will have the food stuff of 200 Million people and then also there will be poverty and scarcity. Even if, the world population was 100 only, then also 10 persons will be starving.

Therefore, we cannot justify family planning is the solution to avoid scarcity and poverty.

Unused abundant Resources

In the world, not even 5% of the land is utilized for inhabitants by human race. We have 95% of land excess for our living.

The other scarcities of things are also lie in the same ratio. So, the population reduction will eradicate poverty and hunger, is a false argument.

If the population increased, the world will gain more benefits.

It happened in the past.

It will happen in the future also.

Benefits of Population Growth

If the man faces problems and gets pressure, he uses his brain to solve it. Man is created to manage any kind of problem by his knowledge. When the population is less, he took six months for harvest. Now he has the crop for harvesting in three months.

The Growth of Science on par with Population increase

If the population increases steeply, he will find the crop to sow in the morning and reap it in the evening. Then the food stuff will heap in excess also. When the population was less he used rain water, well water and river water to drink. Now he drinks bore water and convert sea water into drinking water. These are all the benefits of man attained out population increase.

In the past, we waited 20 days to get a chicken from an egg and six month to get a chicken. Now if we have an egg, we can get a chicken in the evening. We have chicken to lay egg daily. In the past, the cow milked one liter. Now we have the cow for milking 100 liters.

Thus we have giant production of cow, goat, fish, poultry and plants.

The size of the genre also increases enormously.

The change of hut as a stair houses, mini lamp as electric tubes, carts as bus and plane. More the population from hand made to machine made is all the benefits of population growth.

The research of planets and travel to them are all due to population growth.

In our day to day example, we can say, two generation before we cannot buy a large quantity of food at a time in the market.

But now we can buy any quantity if we have the fund.

From this, we can understand the population growth does not create the scarcity.

Some cannot get food due to the wrong distribution.

We have to think this problem in another angle also.

Man is created to find solutions

When the God create man he does not give him a mere stomach only but with solution providing brain also.

If we dissuade 1000 children from birth, one among those may be a scientist capable of eradicating 50 thousand people's poverty.

Curtailing such a people from his birth will be the loss to mankind.

The Government is for the people

If somebody wants to plan the family with minimum members, Islam allows them with certain conditions. The Government does not have any right to force the people to get family planning.

Family Planning is a euphemism for birth control. The stand of Islam is that the Government is for the people and not the contrary.

Permanent Birth control is a sin in Islam

Men can use condom to avoid conception. Using contraceptive bills that bring side effects, placing T-shaped plastic device that is wrapped in copper in the vagina and getting vasectomy operation to prevent flow of the sperm in the semen and other permanently removing the possibility of conception will be opposed vehemently by Islam. Removing permanently the God given boon is destroying the futurity. Islam considers it as a sin.

The danger of Permanent Birth control

For example when a couple has two children, permanently remove their boon of delivering the child and if the children died by accept how can they generate another child again. Thus Islam orders to approach each and every problem wisely.

Due the ill health of the mother and inability, if the couple planned to be few members, Islam will not find fault with them. But if it is a beneficial planning as it is propagated then Islam will not oppose it. At the same time, Muslims, ignoring Family Planning, are increasing their population is an illogical argument.

Family Planning is useless

Islam does not preach that the Family Planning is useless to Muslims only but to the entire mankind. Even Non-Muslims accept the stand of Islam and increase their population; Islam will not lay any barrier on it. As Non-Muslims become the victims on believing this wrong propaganda, Muslims also should be the prey for it, will not be a justifiable argument. On the contrary, as Muslims do not be the victims on believing this wrong propaganda, Non-Muslims also should not be the prey for it, is the wise action.

The neutral stand of Islam

It is not the plan of Muslims to become the majority in India. None can accuse it if they understand that even in the countries where Muslims only living, it is the stand of Islam.

# 2

# Islam Does't Disgrace Other's Mother Tongue

Muslims' preference for Arabic

Muslims are naming them in Arabic. They worship in Arabic language only. Their call of prayer is in Arabic only. It will be justifiable, if it is inside Arabian countries. Using Arabic only, in all other countries of the world including Tamil Nadu, seems that Muslims degrade other languages. It is most important accusation alleged by Non-Muslims against Islam.

Before we know why all these activities are in Arabic, it is very important to understand what the weightage of language in Islam is?

People of each and every language believe that their language is the best language in the world. As they speak a certain language they believe that they are the best society. Do the illiterates only believe so? Even the elites and the reformists believe so. Islam is against this belief.

No sentimental value to language in Islam

Islam has no sentimental value to the language. A language is medium of communication only. Except this, no sentimental value should be attached to it is the stand of Islam. All the languages are equally valuable. Any language is neither superior nor inferior to another language. Islam declares that the people who speak any language is neither superior nor inferior to another language speaking people.

Human relation to language is accidental

Nobody is born in Tamil Nadu with a plan to be born in Tamil Nadu and intended to speak Tamil. As our parents and the society imposed Tamil on us we speak Tamil. If we were born in other place we would have conveyed our thoughts in that language. Islam declares indubitably that there is nothing to be proud or to be shamed.

No supremacy for Arabic Language

Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) was born in Saudi Arabia. Those Arabians were worst fanatics about their language. They will call other speaker as azamies (dumb mouthed animals which make sound but do not speak any intelligible language.) But, Prophet Mohammed (PBUH), who was born in that society, declared definitely in his Last oration, that native Arabians has no credit over any other language speakers. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) is the only leader who declared that Arabic has no supremacy over any other languages though his mother tongue is Arabic.

God treats languages equally

Islam declares authentically that in the presence of God, no language has supremacy over the other. Muslims should believe that Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) is the messenger of God. But they should not believe that he is only messenger of God. They should believe that there have come so many messengers before him. As Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) was in Arabian land, all the messengers were born in Arabian land only. No. It is not so. Innumerable messengers who came before Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) were declared the Message from God in their language only and the religious Message is also bestowed on them in their own language only.

"Allah sends a messenger with the same language of his folk, that he might make the message clear for them. Allah sends whom He will astray, and guides whom He will. He is the Mighty, and the Wise."

(Al Quran 14:4)

Before Prophet Mohammed (PBUH), Allah has sent us Tamil speaking messenger to Tamil society. Al Quran says to believe us that the messenger preached us in Tamil. But we do not know who was he? From this we can infer that there is no importance to a Language in the view of God.

Individual can demand requirements in Mother Tongue

A Muslim can demand his requirements in the language he has known. Islam allows that he can conduct his marriage rituals in his mother tongue.

Prayer call in Arabic is for uniformity

If no language is superior to another language, then why Adhan, the Islamic 5 times daily call of prayer is always in Arabic language? To call Tamil people for prayer in Tamil Nadu, why the call is not in Tamil? Let us see the answer for it.

Definitely, it is not that Arabic only is the divine language. Islam is the religion of the whole world. So the call should not be regional wise. It should be uniform everywhere. To maintain universal integrity it should be in one language only. As a universal order of preference, it goes to Arabic from where it is originated. That is the reason for Adhan to be in Arabic everywhere. Accusing it, as it is due to the supremacy of language, is not only illogical but also a sophistry of hatred.

The order of Islam is that no one use the words of Arabic giving the meaning for Allahu Akbar (the god is great). How Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) taught only should be uttered and to change words even as we like. From this it will clear that it is not arranged as Arabic is superior to other languages. If it is allowed to make a prayer call as they wish, then there will chaos only. The universal integrity will be shattered.

For example

if an American Muslim is visiting Tamil Nadu, the Adhan is announced in Tamil. He hears such a sound for the first time in his life; he will not understand it as a prayer call. He can't even understand that there is a mosque in that area.If the prayer call was uniform all over the world, different language people will clearly understand this. They will identify the mosque and execute the duty of prayer also.

Our National Anthem

Indian National song is in Bengal. It is not because that Bengal is the best language among the Indian languages. On the contrary, it is because the author of the song is the veteran poet. As his mother tongue was Bengali, he composed it in Bengali. The subject content of the song is excellent. So, it was accepted as the National Song.

We can also write better than this song. Yet we do change the National Song. We can accept one song only as National Song. If it is in any language, all other languages will be pushed back. Considering the national Integrity, we have all accepted the National Song in Bengali Language. All people of Tamil Nadu will not understand the meaning of this song. But when it was recited all will understand that our national song is sung.

Likewise, considering the universal integrity, the Islamic Adhan beginning with Allahu Akbar is pronounced as prayer call to all.

Surely, it is not because Arabic is the best language of the world. If the language of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) was Tamil, it will be announce in Tamil.

Sacrifice for National Integrity

For the National Integrity, we have accepted to push back so many things. During the training in Police and military, the trainees say "Left, Right" and march fast. They do not say "valathu(tyJ), Idathu(nlJ) " in Tamil. Nobody compel to say so also. In our nation where multi-lingual people living, all should understand the orders as it is we agree this. This does not mean English the better language than Tamil.

In the same announcing Adhan in Arabic also should be considered. Islam denies indubitably the discriminations in the name of nation, language, race, caste and color. It also should be noted that Islam never say Arabic is superior to other languages.

No order in Islam to give name in Arabic

If Muslims do not give undue importance to Arabic and not degrade other languages, why the Muslims are naming them in Arabic and not in their mother tongue, is the other question raised by the Non-Muslims.

First of all, we have to understand what Islam says about it. Either in Al Quran or in the Hadees, the guidance of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) no order is stipulated that the Muslims should keep their names in Arabic only.

Names of Messengers that are not in Arabic

Al Quran has informed that before Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) God has sent so many messengers to the mankind. Ebrahim, Ismael, Moosa, Eisa, Ayyub, Zackiriya, Yahya, Yusuf, Yunus, Dawood, and Sulaiman are some of the messengers. Nothing of these names is Arabic. These names of the foreign languages were the names of the contemporaries of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH). Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) also named his son as Ebrahim, which is not an Arabic Name. Till today most of the Muslims are naming them after these messengers.

Muslims name in Mother Tongue all over the world.

Moreover, in many countries Muslims naming them in their mother tongue only. In Pakistan more than half of the Muslims name themselves in their mother tongue Urdu. Nawas and Benazir are some of the examples. Indonesian Muslims naming them in their mother tongue as Suharno, and Suharto. Iran Muslims name themselves in Persian Language. It is listed to prove that there is no prohibition in Islam to name them in their mother tongue.

Why Tamil Muslims name in Arabic?

If so, why nobody is naming in Tamil? Though there is no prohibition in the religion, the current situation in Tamil Nadu forces the Muslims to avoid Tamil names. For evading there are justifiable reasons also. The law of Islam is based on eradicating totally the caste discrimination. Indian Muslims all came from many castes and after two generations they forget all from where they came from.

Tamil names indicates caste

But in our country, the prevailing situation is that the people and their names are identified by their caste only. If any one after converting him as a Muslim keeps the same old name the people will recognize him as a Non-Muslim only. If anyone is informed his name, people are eager to know his caste. This is the danger of keeping accustomed Tamil Names. But on the other if a Muslim keeps an unaccustomed name nobody try to enquire for his caste.

For example if a man says his name is Ramasamy, the people will enquire about his caste. if a man says his name is Abdulla, the people will not enquire about his caste. That is why Muslims in Tamil Nadu avoid Tamil Nadu. This is neither to impose supremacy to Arabic Language nor to degrade Tamil Language.

In Indonesia and Iran there are no caste organizations. So, they name them in their mother tongue. When the same situation prevails in Tamil Nadu, then Muslims in Tamil Nadu will name them in our mother tongue Tamil.

# 3

# Islam does not torture animals and birds.

Islam allows killing animals for food. So, the activities of Islam are merciless on animals. This is also one of the important accusations alleged against Islam.

Killing animal for food is inevitable.

It is true that Islam allows killing animals for food. There is justifiable reason for it also. If it is understood none can blame Islam for it. Men should not kill animal for their food is a hypocritical argument. The men can't live without killing the animals. Those, who preach to show mercy on animals, do not practice as the say. Water is an essential for mankind to live in the world. Without drinking water none can live. When we drink water, we drink with the millions of bacteria, the minute living beings that contained in that water. If we drink hot water that means, we drink the soup of the bacteria.

These bacteria also have life, movement, growth and generating like any other living being. Though we can't see it with our bare eyes, we can see them through microscope. Those, who have staunch faith in not torturing the living being, if they are true to their belief, should evade even drinking water. Certainly they can't. For, they can't live without it. It is the ocular proof that mankind can't be alive without killing any living being.

Living Beings are many kinds.

In the world there are so many kinds of living beings. Mankind is rational and moving living beings. Animals, Birds, creepers, insects, and sea animals are moving living beings without rationality. Trees, plants, bushes, sea plants are immovable living beings. We consider moving living beings only as living beings. The immovable living beings are also living beings. For, they also get many stages of growth and generate. There are male and female in it. Those, who have faith in not killing the living beings, they should not eat fruits, vegetable and leaves also. If they eat, then they are also killing living beings, as they are also the parts of the living beings.

Though men and animals are living beings, there is a lot of difference between them. In the same are difference between animals and vegetables. As there are differences between their lives, we can't say that they have no life.

Killing animals for welfare of Mankind

Mosquitoes, cockroaches, lizards and Rats are killed using poisonous medicines as they are harmful to mankind. Those, who agree killing the above mentioned mischievous animals for the welfare of the mankind, when cow coat and bull are killed for food; they condemn it saying these animals tortured.

Benefits of Non-Vegetarian Food

Some essential proteins are available in the flesh of the animals. Scientists have proved this. Many times the doctors recommend Non-Vegetarian food. Those, who prohibit non-vegetarian food in guise of not torturing the animals, lose the essential proteins. Milking the animals and drinking it is accepted by those who is against torturing animals. If the flesh of the cow, bones, intestines and blood are non-vegetarian, the milk of the cow is also non-vegetarian only.

Animals are for the welfare of Mankind.

No food equal to mother's milk, is the fact not only to the mankind, it is true to all mammals also. The cow secretes milk to its calf only. But the men are cheating the calf and drink it. Though it is an apparent torture to the calf, considering the benefit of the mankind it is accepted. Bullocks fastened to the plough and to the carts. Severe woks are extracted from those animals. Torturing the animals gradually is worse than killing it at a time. Yet we agree the torturing of those animals as it is for the benefit of the mankind. When it is allowed, why then killing of the animals for food should be denied?

Is their argument against torturing the animal or killing it? If it is merely against torturing, it means milking the cow and extracting hard works from the bullocks should be avoided. For welfare of the mankind, killing the mischievous animals such as snake, scorpion, rat, lizard, Mosquito and cockroach is accepted, it means that we approve positively that we can kill cow, coat and bullocks for food.

Non-Vegetarian Food controls price hike.

While the price hike of vegetables is inevitable on daily basis and all ignored non-vegetarian food, poor people can't buy vegetables. It should be understood that as many people eat non-vegetarian food the vegetables are available in the market at affordable price.

Non-Vegetarian Food is inevitable in Polar Regions.

For the people, who live in Arctic and Antarctic poles, can't get any food except fish. If it is preached to them not to eat non-vegetarian food they will die. For those who live on those severe cold regions non-vegetarian food alone can give required stamina to resist the chillness.

Mankind is created to accept all kinds of food.

Among the animals there are two kinds. One kind of animal lives on vegetation. Another kind of animal lives on eating the meat of other. Their teeth and intestine determine their food habit. To those animals which eat vegetables God has bestowed their teeth suitable to cut and grind to digest in its intestine. For the animals which eat meat God has created their teeth suitable to cut and grind the meat to digest in its intestine. But the man has created by God with the teeth and intestine to eat both vegetables and meat of the animals and digest them simultaneously.

A few Hindus only are Vegetarian.

Among the Hindus only a minority group speaks against eating meat. For their stand they can't cite any proof from their religious books. Most of the Hindus eat meat without any hesitation.

Hindu Gods are Non-Vegetarian.

In the pages of Hindu Epics and legends depict incarnation of their God and Hindu Kings have hunted animals and ate them. In their ablations sacrificed bulls and horses.

Only vegetarian food is impracticable.

Even today more than Muslims, Hindus eat non-vegetarian Food. Among 5 billion Indians less than 30 million Hindus only avoid non-vegetarian food. From this it is clear that complete vegetarian is impracticable.

No compulsion for Non-Vegetarian Food in Islam

If anyone does not like non-vegetarian he can avoid it and Islam will not be a barrier to him. Non-vegetarian food is allowed in Islam it does not mean all Muslims should eat Non-vegetarian food compulsorily. So, Islam is a merciless religion is totally a wrong accusation.

# 4

# Islamic Punishments are severe to control Crimes.

Often Islamic Criminal Laws are criticized by Non-Muslims. If a man is killed the murderer should be killed in the same way. If any one injured a part of a body, the same part of the culprit also should be injured in the same way. If anyone steal the culprit's right hand wrist should be removed. If a married people engage in prostitution they should be murdered. These are the severe punishments prescribed in Islamic Criminal Law.

Non-Muslims, who do not like Islam, finds fault with Islamic Criminal Laws. They raise their objections against Islam as follows:

Alas! What a cruelty is it, to cut the forehand of a human for stealing, is highly barbaric? Is it not inhuman sentencing murder for prostitution? Are the cruel and inhuman criminal Laws appropriate when the mankind has risen to acme of civilization?

What is the purpose of the punishment?

They agree that the culprits should be punished as Islam says. But they differ in whether to bestow a severe punishment or a light punishment. Of the two kinds of punishments which is wise? Let us analyze.

If we understand the aim of the law that the culprit should be punished properly, we can come to a correct conclusion. By giving death sentence to murderers, we can't bring back the life of the one who already killed. The death sentence bestowed on the rapist can't retrieve the outraged modesty of the woman. In financial matters, the stolen materials sometimes may be recovered. In most of the crimes, when the criminals are punished, there won't be any benefit to the victim. From this we can infer that the aim of punishment is not the recovery of the lost.

If so, why do we punish the culprit?

1. The punishment given to the culprit should prevent him to commit such crimes again and again.

2. On seeing the punishment given to the culprit, others should be terrified to commit such crimes.

3. The victim who was affected by the culprit should get contentment and feel that he is justified.

Other than these three reasons, the culprit is punished for no reason. None can deny this fact.

Criminals are given Nominal Justice.

The police stations, the courts and the prisons are established to threaten the people not to commit crimes, to punish the culprits, to provide justice to the affected. No government in the world has declared the culprits should not be punished.

Punishments lose its purpose

The governments which are giving so many punishments against the crimes, did they succeed in their aims of Punishment? Certainly, they are not. The criminal law of the nation around the world is similar. The punishment for a crime is not severe enough to punish one who is committing a crime and to dissuade one wish to commit a crime. Moreover, the facilities provided to the culprits persuade to commit crime and go to jail for enjoying such facilities freely. The elites should think about it.

Weak Laws of Punishment.

If an anti-social animal steal, or rape, or murder, or rob, or outrage the modesty of innocent women and undertake other crimes he will be arrested and put in prison and fed in our expense for some years. In most of the countries including India the punishment is this much only.

Government is more merciful to criminals than the poor.

In our country, the punishment of prison is better than our poor people's living. The only difference is the prisoner can't move outside freely. The people, who are honest and just have to suffer and struggle for their daily food, while the culprits are guaranteed for three times meals in our prison. High class medical care is provided. To pass their time happily, entertaining cinema shows are displayed inside jail. Moreover, Ismail commission is established to find out what are facilities can be provided to have a contended life for the prisoners. Safety measures are undertaken to protect these culprits from the revenge of the victims who are affected by these criminals. The most indigestible fact is that these culprits are getting all these facilities from their victim's tax payment.

Nominal punishments encourages Criminals

Through this kind of nominal punishment, culprits will not be corrected. The criminal, who is released, commit another crime and enter proudly to the jail as he goes to his father-in-law's house. The criminal, who was arrested 53 times, is arrested for another crime again. This means that the jail life does not terrify him. He did not feel it as a punishment at all.

At the ring of the bell they get their food. Those, who are honest and just, have to struggle to get their daily food, when they know the facilities of the jail, are attracted towards jail committing crimes.

Every year crimes and culprits are increasing simultaneously. To provide them, public money is wasted. This is the consequences of the advocacy of elites for humanitarian laws. We have to take into consideration whether the victim, who is affected by atrocities of the criminal, will be contended of these punishments.

The Expectations of the Victims

If you enquired the man, who has lost his money by a thief, how do you want to punish the thief? He will never say to feed him for six month with the public money. If you enquired a son of the victim, who has lost his father by a murderer, how does he wish to punish the murderer? He will never say that the Government should feed him for 14 years with the public money. On the contrary, he will say take the murderer's head off. The raped woman, when she is in her darkened future, what kind of punishment is given to the rapist will she be contented? Before giving any punishment to the culprit, evaluating the feelings of the victim, punishment should be prescribed.

Not standing on the position of the victim, laws are passed from unaffected place. So, the feelings of the affected are not taken into consideration. But, Islam considers the feelings of the affected also

Misplaced authority emit undeserved mercy

The president of our nation is given authority to forgive the culprit on request. This provision itself shows that our law has no consideration for the victim. As the president has no blood relation to the victim, he can show undeserved mercy to culprit and will murder justice.

Islamic criminal law is impartial. If anyone is blinded the other, the culprit should be blinded by law. But at the same time, the victim forgive the culprit or getting compensation and forgive the culprit, the criminal can escape from punishment.

The Justice of Islamic Law

Likewise, when a man is murdered his close blood relations forgive the culprit and the culprit can escape from punishment. This is Islamic Law. What the world nations has bestowed authority to the president, Islam has vested the authority with victim's blood relations. Those who honor justice will agree that Laws should be like this only.

If the justice did not satisfy the affected, the victim himself tries to revenge and become the culprit.

The outcome of denied Justice

When the murderer goes on bail, or when he goes to court from the jail the victims' relatives kill the murderer is one of the happenings of daily news. What is reason for this happening? The law does not punish the culprit. Even it is punished, it will not be appropriate for the crime. So, the victims' relatives kill the murderer to clear their account with him. It is the way of the world.

Denied justice is the main reason for the increasing of the crimes.

Criminal Law of Islam is just, wise and impartial

Now let us analyze how far the Criminal Law of Islam is meaningful, just and wise. The thieves either male or female should be removed their right forehand up to wrist. If such punishments are executed theft will be reduced. For, they will not steal again. Even if they try it, they can't. They will not think of theft also. It is the benefit of the punishment. Those who think of stealing for the first time will be afraid of executing it when he knows the punishment of it. It is another benefit of the punishment.

Those who see the handless man, people can get alert to protect their belongings. "Are these people here?" the advertising posters of thieves are not so much useful as the people don't remember their faces. But the hand cut is itself is the self-explanatory symbol that he is the thief. It is third benefit of the punishment. Now the purpose of giving punishment is fulfilled entirely. There won't be any expenses for providing the culprit as in the nominal punishment for some years. No prison required, If Islamic Criminal Law is executed with the spirit. No scarcity provision allotment is required in our Budget.

Be merciful to the deserved

The elites cry "Alas! It is pitiable to cut a human hand" and declare that mercy is humanism. There is no objection that man should be merciful with his fellow beings. But, it is injustice that the so called elites misplace their mercy with the culprits. A thief pick pocket from a man who goes to buy medicine for his wife, who is in her death bed. By this mishap, the man not only loses his money but also the precious life of his wife. Who will provide justice to the victim? Islam provides.

The man who honors justice and honesty is affected and distressed. For him the so called elites will not pity. On the contrary they will pity for the culprit who affected the victim. What kind of humanism is it? What kind of mercy is it? Pawning their intellect and advocating the culprits are they elites? Shame! Shame!!The elites are merciful! Let them be fully merciful!! Let them declare no more punishment for any crime. Then the Government needs not to spend for police, court and prison. But they won't say so.

Mercy to Criminal to safeguard themselves.

For, most of them are connected with scam and bribery. With the pre-planning, if they are caught in future they should also have nominal punishments only. With that intention they advocate for criminals and not to establish justice. They raise their objection wisely (?), if we cutting on hands for theft, so many people will remain handless. It is a foolish and illogical argument. If a thief is cutoff hand and it is displayed in TV and published in newspaper. Nobody will dare to steal. It will reduce crime instead of increasing it.

Islam is against Criminals

In Islamic countries like Saudi Arabia these kinds of crimes are less, as Islamic laws are enacted. All the criminal laws of Islam are impartial, Just and severe.

Pitiable plight of the people

All over the world so many governments had come and gone. There is no safety for the people's life, asset, and chastity of women. The people have to pull on their days with fear.

Islamic Criminal Law alone can change the situation

To change this situation, no mercy should be shown to the culprit. The punishments should be severe and strict. As it is preached by Islam, with narrow mind, it should not be prohibited. It should be executed considering the better consequences of it. Even after the long elapse of time, some people have understood the benefit of Islamic Criminal Law. As raping is increasing, to control it, they recommend the punishments for the rapists should be as severe as Arabian countries. In so many women's conferences also this concept is recommended.

To deny Islam don't deny Justice

Each one of the government have understood that they have failed to control crimes. The nominal punishments bestowed on the criminals have no effect to correct them. Changing the nominal punishments and executing Islamic punishments, the elites can understand the benefits of it practically. Then they will not criticize Islamic Criminal Law.

Islamic judgments are not hasty-witted

Some people argue, if anyone's hand is cutoff on suspicion that he may be a thief and later it was known that he was not the culprit, who can attach his hand again?

Islam does not order to execute punishments hastily. After the crime is proved indubitably Islam allows executing punishment.

Prostitution is considered as a prime crime in Islam. The death sentence is the punishment for prostitution. This crime should be proved by four direct eye witnesses. If less than four witnesses alleged this crime, plaintiffs should be whipped 80 stripes.

In Islamic regime, the culprits may escape unpunished due to the lack of proper witnesses. But the guiltless will never be punished.

# 5

# Islam is pure from Caste Divisions.

It is propagated that Islam has eradicated caste. The caste, in which a man was before accepting Islam, will not follow him after he is converted to be Muslim. But the Non-Muslims find some other factions in Islam which they deem Caste Divisions as they see in other religions. For accusing like this they provide some proof as follows:

Shia, Sunni, Thakni, Lebbai, Rawuthar, Markkayar, Shafi, Hanafi, Hanbali, Malikki and Ahl al-Hadith.

Urdu speaking Muslims do not have marital relationships with Tamil speaking Muslims.

No division in Islam is Caste Division

We don't deny or can't deny that in Islamic society these kinds of divisions are there. But we deny, keeping this as the proof, to accuse Islam has also caste Divisions. There are justifiable reasons for denying so.

The First Reason

In Islamic society such Divisions are there due to the Muslims' ignorance and misunderstanding.

Islam is based on Al Quran, the Revelation of God and Hadees, the guidance of His messenger Prophet Mohammed (PBUH). In both of them we can't find any such divisions.

"You are all belonging to a single society" (Al Quran 21:92)

O mankind! We created you from a single pair of a male and a female, and made you into nations and tribes, that you may know each other. The most honored of you in the sight of Allah is one who is the most righteous of you. Allah has full knowledge and he is well aware of all things. (Al Quran 49:13)

As for those who divided their religion and broke up into many sects, (O Mohammed!) you don't have least part in it. (Al Quran 6:159)

The above verses remind mankind that you were all born from same father and mother. So, Islam advices, you should not divide yourself. As Muslims do not remember the preaching, they are divided. But Islam does not allow them to be divided.

The Second Reason

The caste is the status comes by birth. A man belongs to a caste can never change into another caste. That is the grammar of the caste.

But, what are the divisions seems to be in Islam did not come by birth. Shia, Sunni, Shafi'i, Hanafi, Hanbali, Malikki and Ahl al-Hadith came into existence due to the difference of understanding Islam. For example any one born in Shia can change into any other above mentioned divisions of Islam without any objection of the religion. It is a matter of choice of an individual. Considering it on par with the caste is not applicable.

Some Muslim was in business in adjacent countries through boats. The boats are called 'Marakkalm' in Tamil. Those who used boats for their business were called 'Marakkalayar' and it transformed in the colloquial language as 'Marakkayar'.

Some Muslims imported horses from Arab countries and trained them. Those horse trainers were called 'Rawuthar'

Thus, Marakkayar and Rawuthar are the names of their professions.

Some Arabians immigrated to India and they are called Lebbai. If anybody calls us, we will reply 'O'. But those Arabians will reply 'Lebbaik'. So, they are called 'Lebbai'.

Imams deny Madh'hab

Abū ʿAbdullāh Muhammad ibn Idrīs al-Shafiʿī, Abu Hanifa, Ahmad ibn Hanbal, and Mālik ibn Anas are the 4 Imams (preachers) of Islam. They have written or on their name books are available. Those books depict Islamic Jurisprudence (Fikhs) as they understood from the preaching of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH). Our ignorant forefathers, who followed the individual preacher's books, divided themselves as belong to a certain madh'hab (madh'hab=way) named after those Imam. Unlike our time, the friends of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH), do not have live broadcasting. Those, who were around Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) only heard his preaching. They passed it to next generation. All the 4 Imams belong to later generations. So, they can't get all the preaching of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) directly. But they know well that the holy book Al Quran and the preaching of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) alone should be followed. So they have declared in advance in their books, if you find any difference of opinion between Al Quran and their books, ignore their books and follow the guidance of Al Quran. So, it is clear that dividing Islam in their names is shear ignorance.

The base of Islam

The base of Islam is Al Quran and authenticated Hadees, which do not vary Al Quran and its sanctity. Allah has ordered if anyone wish to love Him, love Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) and execute his preaching and he will be in the right path and he will be rewarded by Him. Later only Hadees recorded and verified and authenticated. So, now instead of following Imams and their Fikhs we directly follow the Islamic Jurisprudence from Al Quran and authenticated Hadees. So, in Islam there are no divisions as Shafi'i, Hanafi, Maliki and Hanbali. Though some ignorant Muslims, following their ancestors maintains such division, will come out of it soon.

Shia and Sunni divisions are there. 'Shia' mean the followers Ali. Shia people ignoring Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) give undue importance to Ali (RL) as their prophet. When the God has appointed a messenger they choose one as they wish against the will of God. Shia building is built in wrong foundation. Among the inhabitants, those who have self-thinking alone can vacate that building and come to true Islam.

Sunni Muslims follow the true Islam. It means that as far as religion is concerned they believe in Allah, the creator and his messenger Prophet Mohammed (PBUH).

Divisions are not Caste Divisions

What seem to be divisions in Islam is not the caste division which divides people in superior and inferior groups. Thus it is clear that there are no caste divisions in Islam. All the seeming divisions are due to the ignorance, misunderstanding and faith of ancestors, but not based on superiority and inferiority inherent by birth.

The Third Reason

Though Muslims are divided in their dogma and profession there is no untouchability. They maintain unity in diversity by marital relations with the so called other divisions.

If these divisions were considered as caste, they will not keep marital relations. So, we can understand there are no caste divisions.

It is true that normally, there are no marriages between Urdu and Tamil Speaking Muslims. To have an amicable pleasant relationship, the couples should have known each other's language. So, marital relationship is avoided between them but not prevented. If the marriage is avoided due to superiority and inferiority complex, then only anyone can blame it is considered as caste division.

We advise to evade even such division to avoid this kind of accusation. Though this is not given up alleging this division as caste is totally a wrong accusation.

# 6

# No religions are equal to each other

Non-Muslims honor all religions are equal. Other religious people are to follow the worshipping methods of Islam. But, Muslims refuses to follow the worshipping method of other religion. This is the accusation alleged against Islam.

They put forth some proofs to support their accusation:

· Whatever food items Muslims give to Non-Muslims during their festivals, they accept it with gratification. But when the Non-Muslims provide the food of their festival Muslims do not eat.

· Muslims eat the meat of the animals which they kill only. They do not eat the meat which the Non-Muslims killed.

· Non-Muslims worship in Muslims' worshipping places. But Muslims do not worship in Non-Muslims' worshipping places.

· Muslims do not allow marital relations with non-Muslims.

They impose the condition that they will give in marriage only converted into Muslim.

They accuse Muslims that they are against the belief that all religions are equal. Is this belief

"all religions are equal" right?

Let us analyze it first.

Islam is against illogical belief

In the world there are so many religions.

Each one has its own laws and tenets.

If all are same without any contradiction, there need not be so many religions.

Only one religion will be in the world. The existence of many religions itself is the proof that they are different. When we can't deny the contradiction, affirming contrary things are equal is meaningless.

Variations among Religions

A religion affirms that there is only one God. Another religion affirms to do various work different Gods are required. Of these two different dogmas, one can believe one only at a time. None can believe both the dogmas simultaneously.

God has wives, and children. God sleeps and he is ignorant sometime. This is the dogma of a religion. Another religion says that God is free from all needs and weaknesses. Of these two different dogmas, one can believe one only at a time.

Be truthful in Belief

If a Hindu truly believes his religion, it means that he does not believe and can't believe the other religion. If a Muslim truly believes his religion, it means that he does not believe and can't believe the other religion.

Religions are deep rooted and it can't be separated from human life. Parties, Associations and Establishments are not so deep rooted with men.

A communist member can't be a member of Congress and Dravidian parties simultaneously. He can't declare all the principles of those parties are equal to him.

If he says so, he will be blamed as an opportunist.

Even the faith of political parties which are considered once in a five year is so strict; the religions which are mingled in the daily life of the people should more staunch in faith.

As "All religions are equal" is the lip deep doctrine, it can't make religious compromise with the concerned people.

Islamic way to impartial religious compromise

Islam declares an honest way to maintain impartial religious compromise.

"I honor my religion. I will not intervene if you honored your religion"

"Your religion is to you and my religion is for me"

(Al Quran109:6)

Let every religious people be faithful to their religion. At the same time, let them not prohibit or intervene the freedom of other religious people.

There is neither contradiction nor hypocrisy in this doctrine.

It is fully practicable also. When all religious people accept this impartially, there will be real amicable compromise.

Islam orders to eat Halal meat only

Islam orders to eat Halal meat, the meat of the animal which is killed in the name of Allah only.

To honor this order Muslims refuse to eat the meat of the animal which was killed by others.

It is not due to any hatred.

No presentation to God in Islam

God is needless is the basic principle of Islam. We should not present Him anything is the strict order of Islam. To be steadfast in this principle, Islam orders Muslims not to eat the food presented in front God. It is not due to any hatred.

Mutual compromise lies in honoring each other's belief

How the Muslims honor the religious faith of Non-Muslims, if they also honor the religious faith of Muslims then there won't any problem.If a Muslim has a Hindu friend who eats vegetarian food only, when he calls the Hindu friend as a guest on his festival day, the Muslim friend should not provide the Hindu friend non-vegetarian food. For, he can't eat that food. If the Muslim friend provides the Hindu friend vegetarian food that means he honors the friend and his religion also. If the Hindu friend refuses the non-vegetarian food, it does not mean that he has ashamed the Muslim friend and his religion. Likewise, Non-Muslims should not provide Muslims what is prohibited to them. Because, it is the clue that they honor their friends along with the religion they belong to. Islam suggests this guidance for peace and happiness in the life of mankind.

In worshipping also each religion differ from another. So, each one should have the generosity to allow the other to worship in their method. None should impose their method on the other. If any one behaves on the contrary it will create diversity instead of unity.

The basic principle of Islam is not to worship anyone or anything except God. If a Muslim is steadfast in Islamic principle, blaming him is not just.

If an ADMK member compels a DMK member who keeps a photo of Karunanithy in his house, he should have a photo of Jaya Lalitha also along with it, the later will refuse it. Nobody will support the former's request as a genuine one.

The belief in God more staunch and deep rooted. To force one to accept another's God is not acceptable. Both the Muslims and Hindus do not intervene each other's worshipping method and do not impose one's religious faith on the others then only they can establish religious amicability among themselves.

Muslim should marry a Muslim only

It is true that Islam orders Muslims to have marital relationship among Muslims only. It will not affect religious amicability in any way.

The cause of Religious Riots

The root cause for many caste and religious riots is the inter-caste marriages and interfaith marriages. Because of this so many lives are lost. None can deny that female matter is root cause for caste and religious riots. If it is prohibited, mankind will be benefitted a lot. Due to infatuation, both the sexes, ignores the blemishes of other for some time. Then they come back to accustomed world and see the reality.

Islamic solution for peaceful Happy Life

The struggle between the couples will start in keeping the picture of the God, naming child, bring up the child, and in the law of inheritance. Any one of the couples has either to give up the religion or separate from each other at the end. Islam tells beforehand what will happen in the end. Those who like to marry a Muslim boy or girl should convert into Islam first. Then they won't face such problems. If the Muslim boy or girl ignore their religion and have marital relationship with other religious people nobody will prohibit it. To decide firmly at the outset, Islam orders so with foresight, to avoid the future cleft and quarrel.

When an atheist has marital relationship with another atheist family, it is considered as the staunch faith of his doctrine. There is nothing wrong in the order of Islam to marry among Muslims, as it is far more rational and true religion. The behavior of Muslims affirms their staunch faith.

A man who belongs to a caste can't change caste. But, if anyone accepts the principles of Islam, he can be a Muslim.

If anyone understand this properly, it will be clear that Islam without harming anybody provide equality in the human society.

# 7

# The virtues of Islamic Wars.

Islamic invasions and wars are based on converting Non-Muslims as Muslims, to kill those who opposes them, to enslave the beautiful ladies of the captured nations, to rob the wealth of those nations, Muslims can't tolerate others and their religion spread at the point of sword are the accusations alleged by Non-Muslims against Islam.

Moghul Kings and other Muslims invaded India and Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) has participated in many wars are cited as proofs for their accusations.

Muslim kings' invasion and the participation Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) in wars are true, but the reasons coined for those wars are not true. Both of them are different and for various reasons.

If Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) participated in war for the above mentioned reasons it can be criticized. But, for the invasion of other Muslim kings, criticizing Islam is not wise.

Our responsibility is to explain the wars of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) only.

But in our country, as Muslim Kings invasions are highlighted though there is no connection between their invasion and Islam, let us explain it in brief. Then we will explain the wars Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) had participated.

In those days wars were common.

Most of them held to feed the selfishness of the kings.

We have the history of Chera, chola, pandiya kings who fought with each other. Pandiya king has won the Northern King.

Ariyas has come to swindle India. They have imposed religious faith on atheistic Dravidians. Alexander has invaded and won. The British people have ruled our nation.

All over the world, Kings invaded to teach lesson to the adjacent nation, to broaden their regime, to encroach the assets of another nation.

The Moghul Kings' invasion is also one of such kind.

Muslim Invasions

Hindu Kings met in war many places in Tamil Nadu Venni, Vahai, Pullalur, Pariyavam, Manimangalam, Naively, Penndaham, Viligam, Thellaru, Thiruppurambiyam, Vellur, Thakkolam, Noppam, Kuudal, Kalingam, Eelam, Sumanthiram, Mahendramangalam and Kannanur. There are some more wars in Tamil Nadu and in India. What were the reasons for all these wars, the same reasons were for the wars of Moghul kings wars also. It is not for spreading Islam or converting people into Islam. Moghul Kings ruled this country for 800 years.

Muslim Kings are nominal Muslims only

They did not demolish Hindu Temples. The temples more than 1000 years old are still there as witness to prove this. There were kings who built Hindu Temples and paid huge grant also. They did not prohibit dance and music, which Islam had prohibited. They did not eradicate interest which Islam has eradicated. They did not enact Islamic Criminal Laws. They had appointed more Non-Muslims. They married Non-Muslim women. They prohibited so many Islamic orders. How can they be stamped that they spread Islam in their country? Those who are just will not dare to accuse that those kings who were very far from Islam, at the point of sword threatened the people and converted them into Muslim.

The British People who enslaved this country with modern weapons were driven out by our people in 200 years. Even before that, there were so many agitations to exit them.

The aim of Moghul kings was not Religious Conversion

But, Moghul kings have ruled 800 years. In those days, when sword, spear, arrow and shield like weapons were used and the number of soldiers in the army can decide the victory of the war, if Muslim Kings tried to convert people into Muslims or if they threatened people at the point of sword, when the Muslims were less than a percent in population the native Hindus might have driven them out even with their bare hands.

Moghul Kings have ruled India more than 800 years is itself a self-explanatory proof that they did not compel people to convert into Islam.

But one thing we can affirm that the worst Muslims' worst regime should have been better than the previously ruled worst Hindu ruler.

Or else, the native Hindus will not have tolerated the Muslims, for many centuries, who invaded India with a little army.

The people who were ruled by the worst kings might have preferred Moghul kings in their place as they are better than their native kings. As it can't be said that the wars of Hindu Kings were induced by Hinduism, in the same way the wars of Muslims Kings also can't be stamped as they were instigated by Islam.

No compulsion in Islam

In short, no religion can be spread at the point of sword. It can be done by force. The Muslims rulers did not do this, as they themselves do not follow Islam. Even if it is accepted, as it is believed that those kings spread Islam, Islam did not order them to do so. Because, 'there is no compulsion in Islam' is the creed of Islam.

The preaching of Al Quran and the guidance of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) is only Islam. Islam won't be responsible for the wrong actions of Muslims which are against the guidance of Islam.

Now let us come to the basic accusation in detail about Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) who has participated in many wars and captured many countries.

Are the wars of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) for capturing other nations?

Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) and his friends about 300 people met in Battle of Badr against 1000 enemies. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) won in the war and his enemies most of them were killed and others ran away. It is a historical fact. If the aim of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) was to capture the nation, he would have gone behind them and capture their capital Mecca. He had the better chance for it. It would the practice of any leader who was victorious.

Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) did not cross the border of Badr. It is an authentic proof that his aim was not to capture the nation.

Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) came to Mecca with more than 1000 friends to perform 'Umrah' worship. He had arrived at Hudaybiyyah. His opponents refused to allow him in Mecca. They were obstinate in it to instigate the anger of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH). If capturing the nation was his aim, he could have executed it. But Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) with at most patience and tolerance avoided it. He made an amicable agreement of peace with them. It is the famous Treaty of Hudaybiyyah giving up so many options in favor of enemies and returned back to Medina without performing 'Umrah'. This is also a famous historical event. It is another authentic proof that his aim was not to capture the nation.

Are the wars of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) for plundering other nations?

Did Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) invade war to rob the resources of the enemies? No. In those days, no place except Tayif was more affluent than Medina. Al Quran had ordered clearly that the aim of war should not be amassing wealth.

O believers! When you go on Jihad, carefully discriminate and do not say anyone who offers you a salutation: "You are not a believer!" in the greed of perishable goods of this life. Allah has excessive profits and spoils with Him (for you). (Al Quran 4:94)

When the promise of Al Quran is very clear the aim of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) in war will not be robbing the country of the enemy.

Are the wars of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) for revenging enemies?

Did Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) invade war to revenge the enemies who were atrocious against him? Certainly it is also not the reason.

When Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) entered into Mecca as a victorious ruler, he had all the reasons to revenge his enemies. He has the power also to do so. There stood who stoned Prophet Mohammed (PBUH). There were enemies who planned to kill him. There were enemies who were responsible for his (Hijrath) exile. There were the culprits who killed his friends. There were the atrocious people who tortured his friends in the hot sand. Even after the exile of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) to Medina, there were people who came to Medina and fought with him. But they were all terrified of their fate in that situation. Amnesty for all was the punishment of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) to them. When he had all the reasons and the excessive power to revenge his enemies, instead of revenging, he bestowed amnesty on them. This single incident is enough to prove his majestic humanity.

O believers! Be in staunch faith with Allah and witnesses for fair dealing. Let your hatred on others do not induce you to do wrong and deviate you from justice. Be just. That is next to piety and fear Allah. For Allah is well aware of all that you do.

(Al Quran 5:8)

When Allah has ordered as above, can he disobey it?

In a battle field on seeing a woman's corpse, objecting this, he prohibited killing women and children in the battle field. –Ibn Omar (RL) Buhari, Muslim

"In the battle field, fight but do not transgress. Do not kill priests and children"

Buraitha (RL) Muslim.

In the battle field there won't be any justice was an accepted custom of the world. There also Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) had the broad mind to introduce a new custom of justice and discipline. Therefore, revenging from Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) was an unimaginable aspect.

Are the wars of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) for converting into Islam?

Did Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) invade to convert others into Islam? Certainly it was not the aim.

"There is no compulsion in Islam. The right direction is distinct from wrong. Those, who rejects false deities and believe in Allah has grasped a firm unbreakable handhold."

(Al Quran 2:256)

The Revelation, Al Quran has clearly prohibits compulsory religious conversion. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) will preach Islam to the people. Those who accept it will become Muslim. Others, who can't accept it, will remain in their religion. The Islamic government will collect Zakat as tax from Muslims and Jizyah as tax from Non-Muslims.

"If anyone of the Pagans demands asylum from you, grant it to him, so that he may hear the word of Allah. Then escort him to where he can be safe. For, he is ignorant." (Al Quran 9:6)

The above verse cites the proof, how did Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) behave with Non-Muslims.

Why did Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) wage war?

If Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) did not wage war like others, does it mean is it a lie that Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) participated in war? Or is there any other reason for him to participate in war?

We neither say that Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) did not participate in war. Nor we say he was always inside mosque as a monk with his beads. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) himself has participated in war. He has leaded so many wars as a commander-in-chief. He was so calculative and skillful to measure the strength of army of the enemy by counting how many camels have been cut by the opponent. We don't deny all these. But there were justifiable reasons for these participations.

The First Reason

Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) and his friends were exiled from Mecca. So they sheltered in Medina. But his enemies who exiled to destroy them totally waged war against them. In this situation, if prophet Mohammed (PBUH) did not resist them, they would have killed them totally.

To safeguard himself and his friends, Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) has participated in war. Though for all his wars are not of this kind, some wars he faced for this reason only. Those who honor Justice will not find fault with this.

Let us explain the 2 famous wars of this kind.

The Battle of Badr

The first war held at Badr which is 80 miles away from Medina and more than 200 miles away from Mecca. That means the enemies from Mecca had crossed 200 miles to attack prophet Mohammed (PBUH) and his friends.

Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) resisted them outside his capital.

Even after this, an administrator who is responsible to safeguard his citizen can't ignore the enemies.

It is the bounden duty for him to resist and fight against them.

The Battle of Uhud

What is mentioned prestigiously "Battle of Uhud" in Islamic History, is the second war held in the valley in front of Uhud.

Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) was the commander-in-chief of this war.

This is 5 miles away from Medina. But it is 300 miles away from Mecca.

That means the enemies from Mecca had crossed 300 miles to attack prophet Mohammed (PBUH) and his friends.

Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) resisted them outside his capital. Who came to fight either who crossed 300 miles from their place or who met the enemies at 5 miles distance from their place? Crossing 300 miles on those days with a big army means they should have started so many days before. They might have planned so many days earlier and arranged so many things. In this situation Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) had to conduct a safeguarding war against the enemies.

"If you are the believers, Don't you fight with the enemies who violated their oaths, plotted to expel the Messenger, and aggressively assaulted you at first? Do you fear them? You need not fear. It is Allah to whom you should fear more justly."

(Al Quran 9:13)

Al Quran witnesses that the enemies started the fight. Some wars conducted by Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) belong to this kind. None can blame this also.

The Second Reason

When Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) arrived at Medina, he established a kingdom with the massive support of Medina people. Medina and the surrounding places became the frontier of the kingdom. If there is a country, whether it is small or big, it has its own law and order. Other countries should honor it. If any foreigner wanted to visit the country, he should get permission in advance. This is the custom even before the days of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH).

That is why Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) returned back without performing Umrah, when he was objected to enter into Mecca. But the people of Mecca did not honor the authority of Medina. When the business crew of return back from their business to Mecca they entered via Medina or the frontier of Medina without permission. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) had ordered to prohibit those trespassers and confiscate their possessions. Therefore, there were small quarrels now and then. Before the battle of Badr, the business crew of Abu Sufyan was surrounded is an example. This is the duty of the administrator. The opponents should think that can any nation allow such trespassing?

The Third Reason

Mecca is the native place of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) and his friends. They were driven away from Mecca. What kind of right was to those who drove away Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) and his friends, the same right the victims also had? After Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) had left, Mecca people understood his goodness and his preaching of Islam as a true religion. Those who adopted Islam, fearing the cruelty of the leaders of Mecca ran to Medina. Most of the people left Mecca. To recover back the lost Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) came to Mecca. Not even shedding a drop of blood he won Mecca without any single objection. Islam approves the war to recover back the lost.

"Against whom war is made, to them permission is given to fight. For, they are wronged. Moreover, Allah is most powerful to help them also."

(Al Quran 22: 39)

This verse orders those victims to fight against the transgressors to recover the lost, instead of obeying them. None could deny the fighting for recovering the lost.

What is the justice has the world nations including India to support the Palestinians, who struggle to redeem their native to day and to fight against Israel that much justice was with Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) to fight against Mecca people. Those who honor justice can't blame this.

The Fourth Reason

The good regime established by Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) in Medina was intolerable not only to the leader of Mecca but also to Jews around Medina.

Before the arrival of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) the Jews had kept Medina under their control. After the arrival of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) the citizens of Medina, including Jews accepted his supremacy.

So, the Jews around Medina plotted against Prophet Mohammed (PBUH). They indulged in small mischiefs. They became the agents to send messages to Mecca against Prophet Mohammed (PBUH). They demanded Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) to send them some people who had memorized Al Quran to teach Islam. When Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) sent them, the Jews treacherously killed them. Many times the Jews made covenant with Prophet Mohammed (PBUH). But every time the Jews transgressed the contract. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) waged war against these traitors. Among the wars waged against Jews, most of them were against their treason. So mentioned these four kinds of wars were not evaded, even by those who are honored by opponents as honest rulers. If it happened in our country, we will also welcome to wage a war against those traitors. Other than these, there is another reason also for waging war.

The Fifth Reason

In the internal affairs of a nation, another nation should not poke its nose into it. This is the loyal policy accepted by all around the world. This is important to maintain world-wide peace.

But, for this also is a limit.

If the atrocities of the rulers exceed human rights impartially against some people only, it is not wrong to intervene in the internal matters also.

If a man scolds his wife, we can ignore it as problem of another house. If he keeps her starving then also, we can ignore it as problem of another house. If he goes to kill her with a sharp knife then we should not ignore it as problem of another house.

If so, we can't be man.

The limit which we keep for another house is applicable to the limit of another nation also.

A tyrant tortures his citizens. His atrocities exceed. The citizens do not have any power and courage to resist him.

The people wish to get rid of the torture and ready to run away from there. In that juncture, Islam approves a ruler to a wage a war against the tyrant and save the people.

"Why should you not fight in the cause of Allah for those who are weak and oppressed? Men, women, and children, cry "Our Lord! Rescue us from this town, whose people are oppressors. Rise for us from you one who will protect and help us"

(AL Quran 4:75)

This verse orders to fight for those who expect to relieve them from the tyrant.

Those tyrants who tortured people by tax such as to stand, to walk, to talk, to write, wedding, death, business, farming, vehicle, and child birth. On the collected tax they did not spend for people. They spend it on their golden slippers to golden throne and enjoying in their harem. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) and his four succeeding rulers invaded on those countries and relieved the people. The people also supported this. Those who honor justice will not find fault with this.

What is called Bangladesh now was previously called East Pakistan. These people were ignored by Pakistan. The tax which was collected from East Pakistan was spending for the West Pakistan. Against this injustice under the leadership of Mujibur Rahman people agitated. He demanded the support of India. India did not prohibit it as another country problem. India sent their army and supported to fight against Pakistan. East Pakistan freed from Pakistan and named as Bangladesh a separate free country.

Though LTTE is an unwanted organization to Indian Government today, it was in friendship with India in the past. Then all sorts of help were provided to them. When the Sri Lankan Government leave them starving, Indian Government sent flights to distribute food packages to them.

When Mal Dives was aggressed by a foreign force, Indian Special Task Force relieved it.

The worst terrorist country of the world America is attacking Iraq atrociously. Israel, the illegal child of America is attacking awfully on Palestine. For all these, there is no justice. World nations, to beg from America and to get interest, approve these atrocities silently. Those who approve all these cruelties, criticizes Prophet Mohammed (PBUH), who invaded other countries only on acceptable justifiable reasons, is extremely strange.

Even after the victory on those wars, if they analyzed how Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) behaved, they will understand the truth.

As Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) is the messenger of God, he is the religious head of Islam.

Being a religious head how can he be the commander-in-chief in the battle field? Some hesitate to accept this.

First of all we have to understand that the general charity and the charity of war are different to each other.Murdering in general is a cruel sin condemned by all. Confiscating others property is also a cruel activity. Though these activities are prohibited generally, when there is war, it is the duty to perform. This is the law of war.

The charity of war is different from normal charity.

Raman, Kannan, Arjuna, Karna, Pancha Padavas and Kauravas are the legendary figures who killed many in the battle field. They are honored as heroes. But if they killed them in day to day life they would have been blamed as culprits. Our Tamil Chera, Chola and Pandiyan are also belonging to the same category. Vanchinathan, who shot Lord Ashe and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose who found INA are, honored as great heroes as they did it for our nation. These are the examples to clarify that the charity of war is different from normal charity.

All over the world, those who are honored as victorious heroes did whatever they like. But Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) in war also introduced a new and just discipline.

When Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) started his preaching he was tortured and exiled from the native. He sheltered in Medina and established Islamic Kingdom. He met so many wars as induced by the Mecca leaders. When Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) entered in Mecca as a victorious ruler, with his friends who were waiting for his orders, he had all the reasons to revenge his enemies. Then his enemies were all terrified of their fate in that situation. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) did not take revenge on them. There was not even an objection. The total Mecca came under his control. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) bestowed amnesty for all of them.

In the history of the world, it alone will be a single incident that a powerful leader won his enemies shedding not even a drop of blood.

The historians applaud those kings who dissolved the water of the tanks by elephants crew, fired the fertile lands, pulling out the teeth of the defeated king and studded them in the door of the fort, injuring the defeated king by cutting his nose to humiliate him, cutting the locks of hair of the wife of the defeated king to disgrace him and killed all people without any discrimination of those who participated and also who did not participate in the war and executed some other atrocities are honored as great heroes having divinity. The same historians criticize the virtues war of Islam also. It is partial and highly ridiculous.

# 8

# Islam never orders to kill as they are Non-Muslims.

Islam orders to kill Non-Muslims. It is said in Al Quran to kill Kafir wherever you find. This is one of accusation alleged against Islam. They cite the verse (Al Quran 2: 191) and also the orders of Jihad (holy war) for criticizing Islam.

We have to explain it in detail. Let us analyze the Al Quran verse "to kill Kafir wherever you find".

"Kill them wherever you catch them and turn them out from where they have turned you out. For, commotion and oppression are worse than murder. But fight them not at the Sacred Mosque unless they first started fight with you there. If they fight with you, kill them. Such is the reward of those who destroy faith."

(Al Quran 2: 191)

In this verse, at the outset it is denoted "they". In any language the pronoun 'they' refers to somebody, who is mentioned earlier. Let us see first what is said in the previous verse.

"Fight in the cause of Allah those who fight with you, but do not exceed limits. For Allah will not love transgressors."

(Al Quran 2: 190)

Slanderous accusation on Islam

Now it is clear that 'they' refers to those who invaded on you. 'They' do not refer generally the Non-Muslims. In wars all kind of justice is thrown out. But Al Quran advices not to cross the limit and warns that Allah will not love those who exceed the limit. Even in battle field Islam guides to maintain justice. Hiding the previous verse and deliberately assuming wrong meaning for the next verse and blaming Islam is not justice. The critics if they wish to honor justice they should have praised the verses of Al Quran instead of blaming it.

Likewise the verses of Al Quran 4:89, 90 are also misinterpreted.

"They wish that you should reject Faith, as they do. They wish you to be on the same footing as they are. But do not take friends from them until they go in the way of Allah. But if they turn renegades, seize them and kill them wherever you find them. Do not take any friends or helpers from them."

(Al Quran 4:89)

"Those who join a group between whom and you there is a treaty of peace or those who approach you restraining from fighting. If they withdraw from you and send you signs of peace, then Allah Has opened no way for you to war against them."

(Al Quran 4:90)

From this we understand that "kill them" is the policy for battlefield only.

When Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) established a kingdom then anybody came to destroy it, as a leader, it is his duty to resist it. None can find fault with it.

Accusation of Hatred

Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) waged war for 5 reasons of Jihad after he established a kingdom. We have explained those reasons already. Killing Non-Muslims is not Jihad. So this criticism is misplaced due to ignorance and hatred of Islam.

Outside battle field, what was the behavior of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) and what was the order of Islam to Muslims, if we understood this, it will be clear.

In the battle field do not surrender as cowards, resist and fight to kill those enemies is the order. Is there anything wrong in it? Islam preaches to be polite and gentle with those who are polite and gentle with you.

Islam never ordered to kill any as they are Non-Muslims

Islam never ordered bluntly to kill Non-Muslims. In the regime of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) there were so many divisions of Non-Muslims. They were not killed. So, this accusation is contradictory to the truth and meaningless.

To prove, how far Islam is tolerant let us put forth some lively incidents of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) to the reference of the slanderers of Islam.

The Polite, Tolerant Leader Prophet Mohammed (PBUH).

Prophet Mohammed (PBUH), on his arrival arranged a place as mosque to worship Allah. When Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) and his friends were inside the mosque, there came a villager started urinating in a corner of the mosque. The friends of prophet got angry and were ready to attack him. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) advised his friends to leave him till he finishes urinating and then he called that man politely and informed him that the place was for worshipping Allah and so it should not be desecrated. Some may think that leaving the man unpunished for urinating in the mosque as an ordinary matter. But, allowing and waiting for the man until he urinates completely. Then advising him politely is not an ordinary thing. Such kind of politeness can't be found in any religious leader.

Don't chide Statue worshippers.

Islamic Faith is not to worship anyone or anything except Allah, the only God.

The stone statues worshipped by men have no power is the indubitable belief of Islam.

At the same time, Islam orders firmly a Muslim not to blame those statues that are worshipped by others.

"Don't chide those who worship other than Allah. If you do so, they will also chide on Allah, due to their ignorance. We have made alluring to each people his own doings. In the end they will return to their Lord, and We shall then tell them the truth of all that they did."

(AL Quran 6:108)

"If Allah did not check one set of people by means of another, there would surely have been pulled down churches, synagogues, and mosques, in which the name of Allah is celebrated in ample measure."

(AL Quran 24:22:40)

Islam orders clearly that on bestowing alms, helping and in establishing justice Muslim should be impartial.

"Allah did not dissuade you, to do well to those who neither oppose your Faith nor drive you out of your homes, from dealing kindly and justly with them. "

(AL Quran 60:8)

"O believers! Be firm for Allah, establish justice, and be witness for justice. Let not the hatred of others to you make you turn sharply to do wrong and depart from justice. Be just to all. That is next to piety. Fear Allah. For Allah knows well what all you do."

(AL Quran 5:8)

As Al Quran ordered to behave with Non-Muslims, Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) practiced so.

Let us see another incident how Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) behaved with Non-Muslims.

The Magnanimous, Forgiving Leader Prophet Mohammed (PBUH).

A Jewish woman served Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) the poisoned meat of a goat. The prophet ate a little and the mischief of the woman was known. She agreed that she served the poisoned food with the intention to kill him. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) informed that Allah did not appoint her for it. The friends of the prophet demanded the order of him to kill her. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) denied the permission and let her leave safely. This incident is recorded authentically in Ahmed and Muslim.

As per Islamic Law, though she is deserved to be killed, as a victim Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) used his right to forgive her only. The Non-Muslims should think well how magnanimously and kindly he has behaved with others.

# 9

# Islam doesn't blame but identify Non-Muslims as Kafirs

Al Quran refers Non-Muslims as Kafirs or Mushriks. Those who criticize Islam, misconstrue it also. They feel that Islam rebukes them as Kafirs.

The direct dictionary meaning of the Arabic word 'Kafir' is 'One who denies' or 'One who does not accept'. It is exactly opposite to the Arabic word 'Muslim', 'One who accepts'. Is there any rebuke for the 'Kafir'? The word 'Kafir' contains the self-explanatory meaning 'One who denies' only.

When we address a meeting to Hindus or Christians or Jews, we call them as Non-Muslims. Nobody finds fault with it or condemn it as a rebuke. 'Kafir' means 'Non-Muslim' only.

Sometimes Al Quran refers a group of Non-Muslims as 'Mushriks'. 'Mushriks' means those who have the belief of many Gods. Contrary to Muslim who has a belief on One God, they have Faith on many Gods. To discriminate their faith from Muslims, the word 'Mushriks' is utilized. It is true that Islam will never to degrade or blame anybody. It is against its dignity.

# 10

# Jizyah, the tax on Non-Muslims is impartial

Most of Muslims and Non-Muslims misunderstood Jizyah, the tax levied on Hindus in a Muslim Kingdom as an atrocious act against them.

In the Muslim monarchy the tax levied on Hindus is true. Islam orders so is also true. The Moghul emperor Aurangazeb and others levied such taxes is criticized as an impartial action against Non-Muslims.

In the history books published by the Government is also criticized in the same way for our children to read.

If anyone understand the justice behind it and how far Non-Muslims benefitted by it, nobody will find fault with it.

Jizyah Tax is impartial

When it is looked superficially, it may seem to be partial and a cruelty on Non-Muslims. For, it was levied only for Non-Muslims and Muslims are exempted from it. In reality there was no impartiality on levying tax. It is the duty of the Government to protect the welfare of the citizens. To help the poor citizens is the primary duty of the government. To safeguard their rights by Law and order internally should be maintained with police force. The foreign invasion should be resisted with the help of army. Without finance, the Government can't do this expense. For these expenses amount should be collected in the form of taxes by the Government.

Zakat Tax on Muslims

In an Islamic country taxes are levied for Muslims as Zakat and Non-Muslims as Jizyah. Zakat for Muslim is a religious duty also. Muslims should pay Zakat for all their assets movable and immovable and their income also separately. For example they have to pay for gold, silver, money animals 2.5% for the bore well water yield 5% for other kind of rain-water yield 10%. If we calculate each and everything Muslims have to pay as Zakat a large sum. But Non-Muslims have to pay a nominal amount as Jizyah tax. This tax amount will be spent on welfare activities to uplift poor, very poor, indebted, slaves, those who have no other go and for military.

If the Muslim Government spent only from Zakat money and leaves the Non-Muslims without any tax, it is not just.

3 ways for Taxing Non-Muslims

In this situation we have to choose any one 3 options given below:

1. Non-Muslims should not be levied tax

2. Both Muslims and Non-Muslims should be levied Zakat Tax.

3. Non-Muslims should be taxed another way.

If the first option was executed the consequence will be as follows:

If Non-Muslims are exempted from tax paying, naturally Muslims will expect more facilities from the Government and they will insist non-tax payer should not utilize Government facilities. Moreover, as Non-Muslims do not pay tax, they will hesitate to demand facility. Psychologically they will feel that they are the second cadre citizens. The people who were not taxed feel that they are degraded. They may take it that it is the sign that they do not have any right. When it is executed the objections will arise from both the sides.

If the second option was executed the consequence will be as follows:

Though Zakat is a tax, it is also form of worship for Muslims. When it is imposed to all, Non-Muslims will feel other religious duty is imposed on them also. They may fear all the religious activities may be imposed on them. They can't digest it. There will be an accusation that Islam is imposing their religious activities on Non-Muslims. As it is intervening in personal rights of Non-Muslims Zakat can't be levied on them. Even if it is levied it can't be collected properly.

Zakat tax is to be collected on the basis of individual asset valuation. If the concerned showed his account correctly and cooperated only, it can be collected fully. As far as Muslim it is not only a tax but also worship. So they may be in fear of Allah show the correct account. But Non-Muslims will consider it a mere tax only. As it is another religious duty, they will not cooperate fully. As far as possible they will show reduced account to save their tax paying money. For this reason also Zakat Tax can't be levied on Non-Muslims.

When Non-Muslim can neither be freed from Tax nor be levied Zakat Tax, the third option of taxing another way is only suitable for them and that is Jizyah Tax.

Muslims paid more Tax amount

Muslims were taxed many more times in Zakat than Non-Muslims who has to pay a nominal Jizyah tax. In reality Muslims paid high Tax in an Islamic Regime than the Non-Muslims. Without understanding it, some people wrongly criticize Islam levied Jizyah tax on Non-Muslims.

Emperors collected tributes from Kings and they in return collected high tax from the citizens was the way of the world in the past. Those, who had digested even these atrocities, criticize the evenhanded Jizyah tax. To find fault in levying Jizyah tax on Non-Muslims, there is no other reason except their hatred towards Islam.

Concessions in Jizyah tax

On levying Jizyah tax on Non-Muslims, Islamic Government has been very leniently. Old people, women, children and lunatics were exempted from Jizyah tax. Though such concessions were unwarranted Islamic Government considered them as weak and levied Jizyah tax on healthy Non-Muslim youths only. Moreover all are not levied tax equally also. The tax was applicable as per the individual income. The Syrians who had more individual income were levied 4 Dinars while the people of Yemen who had less individual income were levied 1 Dinar by Prophet Mohammed (PBUH).

Jizyah Tax is far less than the tax of democratic Indian Government

The wage of a man who feed a goat for 10 Days was paid 1 Dinar. From this we can understand the value of a Dinar. This value is far less than a poor pays tax to our democratic Indian Government. Property Tax, Sales Tax, Income Tax, Road Tax, Water Tax, Entrance Tax, and House Tax like many Taxes, Indians pay directly and indirectly to the Government. From 10 Paisa match box to 10,000 Rupees TV whatever we buy we have to pay tax to Government. What Islam levied as Jizyah Tax is far less than this tax.

This Jizyah Tax was levied on Non-Muslims as easy to pay, exempted for the weak, far less than Zakat Tax paid by Muslims.

Paying the very meager amount Non-Muslims enjoyed the same facilities of the high Tax paying Muslims derived. Their worshipping rights and places, and their properties was safeguarded. Even after this accusing Jizyah Tax, which paved the way for their Rights and safety, is not at all just.

Here we have to clear another fair accusation also.

Some may raise doubt that Zakat Tax was levied on affluent Muslims only. The poor Muslims are all exempted as they can't and Islam has also exempted them. So, more Muslims did not pay any Tax.

For two reasons this accusation is wrong.

1. Assume that there are 100 Muslims. Among them 10 Muslims only pay Zakat Tax. What the 10 Muslims pay as Zakat Tax can be accounted on behalf of 100 Muslims. If we compared the amount of Zakat paid by 10 Muslims with the Jizyah Tax paid by 100 Non-Muslims, definitely the Zakat amount will be more than the Jizyah Tax amount.

2. Though Tax exemptions are allowed for both Muslims and Non-Muslims, the Non-Muslims were exempted from Jizyah tax for more categories such as Old people, women, children and lunatics. Among Muslims the exemption is for the poor only.

"No one will be troubled more than their resisting power"

is the promise of Allah in Al Quran.

Those Non-Muslims who honor justice will not blame Jizyah. By levying

Jizyah Tax, Islam tried to convert Non-Muslims into Muslims is the accusation contrary to truth.

No wise people will accept that to escape from this nominal Jizyah Tax Non-Muslims sacrificed the exemption given to very poor, women, children, the aged and the lunatics among them and came forward to convert themselves into Muslims.

Changing Religion to avoid Jizyah Tax is an insult.

None can say the religious belief, however weak, will be shattered to escape from a nominal tax levied on them. If anybody says so, they insult not only the religion but also total society which belongs to that religion.

Jizyah Taxing is for converting into Muslim is illogical

While Muslims have to pay more amounts for tax, Non-Muslims in converting themselves as Muslims will lose their money instead of gaining anything. In this situation, who will be so foolish to escape from nominal Jizyah Tax, convert themselves into Muslims to pay high Zakat Tax? Those who have logical reasoning can't blabber foolishly like this.

# 11

# Muslims never worship any Direction.

"Muslims who say that they worship only one God, like other religious people worship many Gods"

is another important accusation alleged against Islam by Non-Muslims.

For saying so, they put forth some proofs. Though Muslims say that they worship only one God, in reality they worship west direction only. All Mosques are built forwarding West Direction.

Not only ordinary people, but also the famous Tamil National Poet Subramanya Bharathiar refers Muslims as "Direction worshipping Thurukkar". To refer Muslims as "the worshipper of Direction" is basically illogical argument.

Forwarding doesn't mean worshipping

Islam orders to worship forwarding "Kaaba Mosque" which is in Mecca. As Mecca is in west of India, Indian Muslims has to worship forwarding Kaaba Mosque in west direction. All over the world Muslims will not worship forwarding Kaaba Mosque in the west direction. They will worship forwarding Kaaba Mosque in the direction in which direction it is situated to them. If all over the world Muslims worship forwarding a single direction "Direction worshipping Thurukkar" will be correct. Some may argue if worshipping is wrong, why should we not say worshipping the direction of Kaaba Mosque? It is also wrong. Forwarding a direction does mean worshipping a direction. It is illogical.

A man can't avoid forwarding a direction. If he worship or sit idle, he should forward a direction. Nobody can say what he forwards, he worships. It will be clearer if we understand the difference between forwarding and worshipping.

The Grammar of worshipping

If we worship a thing means we believe that it has the power to fulfill our needs and if we commit any mistake it can punish. Then only it deserves to be worshipped by us. Does Muslims believe that Kaaba Mosque has such power? Never have they believed so.

"Kaaba Mosque can't see us. It has no power to help us. It can't punish when we commit any mistake. When all the things are perished it also will be perished". It is the belief of a Muslim. A true Muslim should believe so.

"O Kaaba Mosque! You have to relieve us from our sufferings. You have to flourish our life". Not even an ignorant Muslim will expect so. He should not expect also.

When Al Quran orders Muslim while worshipping forward Kaaba Mosque, it adds an advice also along with it as follows:

"Wherever you turn your face there is the (venerable) face of Allah" (AL Quran 2:15 115)

When forwarding Kaaba Mosque, a Muslim should not believe that Kaaba Mosque is God or God is inside Kaaba Mosque. After advising it clearly Islam orders to forward Kaaba Mosque.

Therefore Muslims did neither worship Kaaba Mosque nor the direction of Kaaba Mosque. They did not worship the west Direction also. On the contrary, accepting the order of the God, they worship the only God forwarding Kaaba Mosque can be confirmed from their recitations of their verses of Al Quran.

Muslims don't worship Kaaba Mosque Proof 1.

In the beginning of a Prayer, Muslims will say "Allahu Akbar", the God is great. Inside the prayer, when they change from one position to another position they will repeat "Allahu Akbar". In the prayer they will praise Allah only.

Some may doubt why Muslims should select specifically Kaaba Mosque for praying God? Al Quran has a clear cut answer for it.

In the beginning God created a single pair only. Through that pair only now the mankind has expanded with population of 6 Billion people.

The First man Adam created by God for the first time built a worshipping place for God in Mecca and it is called Kaaba Mosque. As it is a first a mosque, Islam orders to pray God forwarding Kaaba Mosque.

The first sanctuary established for mankind was that at Bakka (the old name of Mecca). It is full of blessing and of guidance for all kinds of beings.

(AL Quran 3:96)

Muslims don't worship Kaaba Mosque Proof 2.

If anyone does not know the direction of Kaaba Mosque, he can pray forwarding a direction assuming Kaaba Mosque is there. Afterwards he knows the right direction, he need not pray again is the stand of Islam. If Kaaba Mosque is to be worshipped, a Muslim can't pray until he confirms the direction of Kaaba Mosque. After a prayer, if it is known that the prayer is not performed forwarding Kaaba Mosque Islam should have ordered to pray again. As Islam did not order so, it is clear that Muslims do not consider Kaaba Mosque as God and they did not worship Kaaba Mosque.

Some people may think why we should not allow forwarding any direction as they like instead of forwarding Kaaba Mosque.

To maintain discipline Islam didn't order to forward any direction

Islam orders Muslims to gather together in a place and perform prayer collectively. When many people gather together and pray collectively, each one forwarding a direction as he likes and started praying there won't be any discipline there.

Those who understand this won't blame that Islam orders to worship a direction or Kaaba Mosque.

# 12

# Holy Pilgrimage Hajj confirms Human Brotherhood

Islam orders for the affluent and healthy Muslim to perform Hajj Pilgrimage once in his life time. Like any other religion has pilgrimage, Islam also has this holy pilgrimage to Mecca.

There is a meaning while other religious people go on pilgrimage to a particular place, as they believe that there is God. But Islam has the belief that a Muslim can worship his god where he is. "If they are true to their belief, why then they spent thousands of rupees for a pilgrimage?" is the objection of Non-Muslims against Islam.

They suggest that this money can be spent for so many welfare plans of the mankind.

If we understand, what is the Islamic worship procedure? Then, we can get the appropriate answer for it.

The main aim of Islam is to pray the only God. But within the prayer Islam wish that it should contain benefits to mankind.

Prayer maintains equality among mankind.

Let us analyze prayer first. Anybody can worship individually from his home. But Islam orders to come to a mosque gather together and pray in its time collectively. By this, along with the worship of God, there are so many benefits to the mankind. The worshipper should stand in a line adjacent to each other in the row starting from the center behind the leader. While standing in the row the one who comes first will occupy the place in serial order irrespective of his wealth, position, seniority, knowledge and other socio-economic status. Even if he is the president of the nation, no priority will be given. He has to take his position in turn only. This procedure will be followed daily in 5 times.

A man who considered him belongs to a high society by birth, before joining Islam, comes late he should stand behind a man who is considered that he belongs to a low society by birth, before joining Islam. For the first time the former will feel irksome. If he understands Islam, psychologically the feeling will vanish soon and he will relieve from superiority complex. In the same way the man who is considered that he belongs to a low society by birth will get rid of inferiority complex gradually.

Prayer eradicates untouchability among mankind.

The prayer is not just standing alone in rows. In each prayer the participant should bow and keep his forehead on the ground and worship God. If the man who is considered that he belongs to a low society stands in the first row and if the man who considered him belongs to a high society by birth in the second row, while both are keeping their forehead on the ground the feet of the previous man will slightly touch the head of the next row man and it will happen many times a day. Then, they are trained to tolerate each other. Thus, Islam has eradicated the untouchability in the society. Islam has the merit that it has eradicated untouchability 14 centuries ago. Till today this Social Evil can't be eradicated totally in other societies. In India, all the Muslims had adopted Islam from other religions only. But they can't remember from which religion they came. To such an extent Islam has shattered the caste differences into nothing.

Hajj preserves common brotherhood world-wide

What it had achieved in nationwide had extended it to worldwide by Hajj. The poor will be ready to accept and mingle with people. But the wealthy will not be ready to mingle with people. By nature, he will be haughty due to his affluence and he will maintain his superiority. Islam teaches him none is rich except Allah. So Islam prescribed Hajj is the duty of wealthy only to train him practically, wearing him 2 unstitched pieces of clothes and beg for his needs to Allah. Hajj maintains common brotherhood, equality among mankind and wipes away all differences. There only you can see the miracle that the foot of a Negro touching the head of a European who consider him as superior due to his white tint. Mecca, during Hajj is the only place in the world that covers up the nation, language, color, race, power and position differences among mankind.

Male should wear 2 pieces unstitched white dress and the women in their normal Hijab to maintain common brotherhood. Hajj is the place of world conference for common brotherhood in worshipping the only God. Hajj imposes equality of mankind and to forget all kinds of unwanted differences among themselves. During Hajj all should gather together in the Plain of Arafat.

Hajj participants should be present there to hear special oration on (Tawhid=oneness of God) Monotheism, and equality of mankind.

Hajj equilibrates color and language variations world-wide

Prophet Mohammed (PUBH), in his Last Oration declared "O Mankind! You all belong to the same father. There is no specialty for Arabic language over other languages. The whites have no supremacy over the blacks".

The expenses are of two kinds. The one is profitable expense and the other is unprofitable expense. We have to estimate the value of an expense on the outcome of it. After enacting thousands of laws against untouchability and color fanaticism other societies can't eradicate them. Islam has eradicated it. When we compared this benefit, with the expenses incurred for it, it is not much. Even spending more than this, we can't eradicate untouchability in our nation. But spending less than this, when world brotherhood is achieved, criticizing the expense is not just. Expense is not a matter, when it brings unity among mankind, eradicating all kinds of differences. Thus Hajj pilgrimage is a panacea.

Those who go for Hajj do not believe God is in Mecca. They do not worship any building or anything as their Deity. If it is understood properly, nobody can raise any blame on Hajj Pilgrimage.

# 13

# Muslims never worship Black stone (Hajarul Aswad)

Slanderous misconception of Non-Muslims

While Muslims are telling that they are worshipping the only God and simultaneously worshipping the Black Stone (Hajarul Aswad) studded in the right corner the grand holy Kaaba Mosque is contradictory to their belief. It shows the unclear religious dogma of God of Islam, is also one of the criticisms of Non-Muslims on Islam.

They say "we worship stone and you also worship Black Stone". They retort Islamic Principle of God is neither special nor the best.

This criticism lifted up due to misconstruing Muslims' action.

The stand of Islam on Black Stone

No Muslim worship Black Stone (Hajarul Aswad) and Islam also didn't order them to do so. Among those who go to Mecca for Umrah or Hajj gets the opportunity to touch and kiss do so, as Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) did it.

The second Khalifa Omar (RL) affirms the stand of Islam of this action.

After kissing the Black Stone (Hajarul Aswad) he declared that he knows that it is merely a stone.

It can't do anything good or bad.

If he did not see Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) kissing it, he will not have kissed.

This message is recorded authentically in Islamic history.

If Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) has attached any sanctity to the Black Stone (Hajarul Aswad), Khalifa Omar (RL) won't have told so.

Brief explanation of Worship

We can say that anyone worships a stone, he who stands before the stone should feel to honor it with the fear of God. He should believe that it has the power to reduce his sufferings and increase his happiness. He should fear that if it is not honored properly, it will punish him. He should believe that it will hear him and understand his prayers and demands and in response to it, it should fulfill his requirements. With this kind of belief and reverence if it is honored then it is called worship.

The reason for Kissing Blackstone (Hajarul Aswad)

Except God, nothing should be prayed or worshipped is the clear cut order of Al Quran and the preaching of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH). He who demolished the statues of his preceding prophets including Ibrahim, and Ismael how can he attach sanctity to the Black Stone? If the stone had no divinity, why should it be kissed? As per Islamic principle, one day the whole world will be destroyed totally. God will resurrect all again and make judgment for all. Those are righteous will be rewarded Heaven as their abode and the culprits will be to send to hell for punishment. The aim of Islamic life is to attain Heaven. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) said that the Black stone (Hajarul Aswad) is the only sample object of heaven available in this world. Naturally people will be eager to see and touch the heavenly object. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) also has kissed it. Following his action people kiss it as Omar (RL) did.

Respecting rarity is the Human Nature

We can cite an example to understand it properly with the incident we met few years back. An astronaut crew under the leadership of Neil Alden Armstrong landed on Moon for the first time. They brought some soil sample. It was distributed to all over the world. When the soil arrived at Madras, the people gathered together to see the rare soil of the Moon. Some touched it and smell it also. It does not mean that they worshipped it.

In the same way those Muslims who get the opportunity honor their belief in touching and kissing it. Moreover, it is not a must that those who for go for Hajj or Umrah has to touch it. Even without touching Hajj can be performed. If it is to be worshipped, touching the Black Stone (Hajarul Aswad) will be included as one of the rites of Hajj. It is a slander and utter ignorance that Islam orders to Worship Black Stone (Hajarul Aswad).

If any Muslim prayed Black Stone (Hajarul Aswad) or if he believed that it has the power to do good or bad, or if he believed that it will hear his request and understand his visit he will exit from Islam.

As it is indubitably clear and Islam has explicitly elucidated its stand, it is wrong to say that Muslims worship the Black Stone (Hajarul Aswad).

# 14

# Prophet Mohamed never led his life through his priesthood

Westerners' Objection

Islam is supposed to be against priesthood. But it is not true. Because, Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) from the day of his preaching till his death did not undertake any profession. So, he might have pulled on his life by priesthood only. How did the other priests who collected dedication from the devotee pulled on their life, Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) also should have led his life. If not, how could he manage his life when he lived with many wives? This is one of the criticisms against Prophet Mohammed (PBUH). Though this is not raised in India, westerners raise this objection.

Livelihood by priesthood is an assumption but not true.

After he was driven out of Mecca, he went to Medina, where he established a kingdom. Utilizing the position, he might have managed his livelihood is the criticism. Because, when he became the administrative head he did not undertake profession for his livelihood. As long as he was in Mecca he managed his livelihood by priesthood. When he arrive Medina he became the religious head and administrative head simultaneously. Through these powers he might have managed his livelihood is their assumption.

This is also a baseless accusation. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) never utilized his positions as religious head and administrative head for his livelihood. Let us analyze it in detail

Early Life of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH)

Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) lost his parents in his young age. From his early years he began to work. He worked till his death. Even while he was a boy, he was not a burden to Abu Thalib, his uncle or to Abdul Muthalib, his grandfather. The great man himself worked for his livelihood.

In those days, he was the supremo among the world leaders. He has the supreme authority and self-controlled friends. Valiant world leaders revered him with fear. When he talks about his early days to his friends he informed that there was no prophet without shepherding. His friends enquired him "Are you too?" The Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) replied them affirmatively. He informed that he had been the shepherd in Mecca for the wages some.

"Keerath" –Abu Hurairah Buhari.

In those days Dinar was the coin of the Arabs. The value of a Keerath=1/12 of a Dinar.

Objection overruled

From his childhood, to work for the livelihood, was his life spirit. It was like the blood ran through his veins. Even in his young age, he engaged in business along with his uncle Abu Thalib. He went on business to adjacent countries on camel. The financial position of Abu Thalib risen up. He became one of the significant businessmen of Mecca. Even from early years, the boy who worked and risen up a status and in 25 years ne became a big businessman. Will he found a religion to run his livelihood idly on priesthood?

Slanderous accusation.

On his 25th years he married mother Hatheeja the richest business women of Mecca. Mother Hatheeja handed over all her assets to Prophet Mohammed (PBUH). So, his financial status still more heightened. His affluence was enough to feed for many generations of his family. Is it believable that Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) found religion to fill his belly? Before preaching Islam he had abundant wealth. For the welfare activities of the poor, he bestowed a lot. Criticizing him as one who found religion to run his livelihood is a slanderous accusation. In reality he was affluent before he was declared as a Messenger of Allah. After he was declared as the Messenger of Allah he lost his wealth gradually. He provided what he had to those who believed him suffered.

Preached for the Hereafter.

When Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) was secluded in Khyber Pass, he can't get food. He had to eat dried leaves and burnt hides. After he became prophet, he lost a lot. He had staunch faith in Islam he felt that hereafter is true and permanent. He preached for the Hereafter and not to get any position in this world.

To be firm in his principles he was ready renounce everything. Till today nowhere such a Man of Principles can be found in the History of the world.

When the time he entered in Medina as a fugitive and when he became the unrivalled ruler of Medina he neither touched a penny of the public money nor accepted the offerings from the people to lead his livelihood.

"None can fill his belly with the better food than by earning it by his work"

-Buhari

"It is better to lead a life of a woodcutter in the forest than begging"

-Buhari

"Had I Gold as much as of Uhud Mountain, I won't wish them to keep with me more than what is required for 3 days to my religion "

-Buhari, Muslim

A man enquired Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) "O Messenger of Allah! Tell me to do a thing which Allah and the people will love me".

Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) replied him "Don't love this world and Allah will love you. Don't be greedy to get what the people possess, and they will love you."

-Ibnumaja, Thabrani, Hakkim)

What all Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) preached to people practiced in his life. That is why he stands aloof as an unrivalled man of principles till today.

Income for the livelihood of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH).

How Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) led his livelihood being a dual head of the state and preaching people 24/7?

The status of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) was not to beg, not to wait for presentations, have to earn by his own work, but it should not block his religious and administrative works. Considering all he selected a way to manage his families, religion and administration simultaneously.

On arriving at Medina he arranged a farm of 100 goats. He appointed a shepherd to look after it. From the income he got, he used it for his livelihood.

"I went to meet Prophet Mohammed (PBUH). Then his shepherd brought a new born goatling there and informed that his goat calved. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) enquired "Is it a male or female goat?" The shepherd replied that it is a male goat. Then Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) ordered to cut a goat and prepare food. Then he told me, it is not a special incident for you alone. It is our procedure that as soon as a goat is calved we will cut a big goat eat."

-Laheed Ibn Sabura(RL) Abu Dawood

We can understand from this incident that how Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) planned and spend his livelihood.

In the farm of 100 goats, the goats are calving 8 goatling in average. Unlike our goats, the Arabian goat will draw more milk. The excessive milk will cover the daily expenses. When the goat calved mostly they will cut a big goat for food and sometimes sell it also. This money also will used for expenses. Any how he managed to keep the number of the herd will remain 100 at any time.

Is it enough for the expenses of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) who had many wives? As we see just like our daily life we see the life of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) also, this kind of doubt arises. The life of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) was so simple and economical. To maintain his life, he has reduced to requirements according to his income. If we led a life as he lived, we can also manage a family of more than 10 members.

Inexpensive Simple life.

Even after the people had attained affluence, I have seen Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) has lied shrinking as he did not get even cheap category date fruits to fill his stomach.

-Nuhman bin Basheer(RL) Muslim

The family members of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) have never eaten wheat bread as full meal continuously for 2 Days. The same situation continued till his death.

-Ayesha (RL) Buhari, Muslim

Sahl (RL) said "Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) has never seen sieve from the time he was appointed as Messenger of God till his death. That means he did not remove the husks and big pieces of not grinded wheat from the wheat flour." When it was enquired how did you eat the wheat which is not sieved? " Sahl replied "We will grind the wheat in hand grinder and blow the flour surface by our mouth. Some husks will fly away. On the remaining flour we will mix it with water and ate as it is."

"In the houses of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH), one or two months will pass away without igniting fire in their kitchen."

-Ayesha (RL) Buhari, Muslim

"O my little mother, how will you eat then?"

I enquired.

She replied "Drinking water and Dates only"

-Ayesha (RL) Buhari, Muslim

Assets left by Prophet Mohammed (PBUH).

Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) did not leave any Gold coin, or Silver coin or slaves. He had left the mule he rode, the weapons he used, and the land which he bestowed as gift for wayfarers.

-Buhari

Pointing out a hard Lower Apron and hard upper outer garment,

Ayesha (RL) informed "Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) was wearing those dress while he deceased.

-Buhari, Muslim

To live such a simple life, is not enough his little farm? Even for this simple he required something more. Then also he did not expect anything from others.

The shield dress of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) was pawned with a Jew for 30 measure of wheat, he died without retrieving it.

-Buhari, Muslim

When his friends were ready to dedicate even their life for him, if it is pawned with them, fearing that they may give it as gift to him, he has pawned it with a Jew.

Through religion he earned nothing, but lost a lot and suffered much.

He earned nothing utilizing his regime. He self-imposed so many conditions to him and his family.

In those days the main source of income to the government was the fund collected through Zakat Tax. He declared publicly that the fund collected through Zakat is prohibited to him and his family. It may even be a pre-planned safety measure to avoid his family members not to ask any help from this fund.

"The grandson of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH), Hussain(RL) put into his mouth a dates from Zakat Fund, on seeing it Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) ordered him to spit it out and advised him that it is prohibited for them."

-Buhari, Muslim

To criticize the life of this holy man no one is qualified. He declared till the last day of the world whoever comes in his genealogy is strictly prohibited to get anything from Zakat fund.

He has not only prohibited government property to him and his successors but also what he has earned by his own work, including Goat farm left it as a gift to the common.

"No one can become the heir for the property of the Messengers of the God".

-Ahmad, Thirmidhi.

After his death, his family members suffered a lot

The dearest daughter of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) Mother Fathima (RL) demanded the farm of her father from Abu Backer (RL). As none become the heir for the property of the messengers of God, Abu Backer (RL) prohibited her request and socialized to the common.

The holy man belongs to the life, which draw tears from the hearer. He lived a simple life which none can live. He was the only supremo to whom none can raise the voice even if he had taken the whole government asset. But he was the only one in the history of the world, who prohibited all to him and his successors till the last day of the world.

Other Incomes of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH)

Sometimes the friends of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) will present him voluntarily. Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) will not refuse it. He will also bestow presentations on them.

These kinds of presentations, the share he received for participating in the war and the income he received from Goat Farm Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) spent for his livelihood.

It is true that being the administrative head, he did not utilize government fund, or materials or other facilities.

# Conclusion

We have published another book on "Does Islam snatch away the Rights of women?"

We have published a separate book explaining "Why did Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) marry many women?"

These are the rest of the accusations we have come across so far alleged against Islam.

We have explained it all with required elucidations in this book "Accusations and Answers".

Other than this, if you know any accusation and bring it to our attention, we will be thankful to you. We will inform explanations in the light of Al Quran and from the traditions of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) as usual.

Let Allah bestow His grace on all of us to understand the truth exactly as it is and act accordingly.

# Glossary

Family Planning - Euphemism for Birth Control

Kafirs - who rejects Islamic faith, or Hidesor covers [viz., the truth]

Mushriks - those who commit shirk, which is the sin of idolatry or polytheism

Jizyah - is a per capitatax on non-Muslim In the place of Zakat Tax on Muslims

Black stone (Hajarul Aswad)- the only material of Heaven on Earth It is studded in grand Mosque Kaaba.

