

Copyright © 2018 by Lynn Achieng'.

All rights reserved.

No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems without the written permission from the author, expect for the use of a brief quotations in book review.

PROLOGUE.

Goggling your symptoms on WebMD is not a good idea, Adelynn thought as she looked at the basic black and white website telling her that her symptoms meant she was suffering from skin cancer.

She snorted, yeah right; that was actually better than your fiancé dying in a fiery car crash on the day before your wedding.

It was funny that now she could even snort at that, a year ago just the thought of Martin made her burst into tears.

With a sigh she snapped the laptop top shut and stood, picking up her cup of tea from the table and went to look out the window. She loved it here, up in the cabin alone where the world could not touch her. As she looked out the window into the emptiness of the darkness lighted faintly by the night sky she relished the freedom. Here she was happy and the whole world could not touch her.

You should probably get to bed now, the practical side of her mind reminded her; she called that side Yin.

She can stay up a little bit longer, the other side of her said that she called Yan replied.

Get it my Yin to your Yan?

She knew that it was not normal to speak to yourself and give both sides names but after being cooped up in the cabin almost a year they were the only people she could talk to.

Its past ten o'clock, in fact, it is going to twelve, Yin replied outraged.

Yah right she has no job to go to, she can sleep at any time, Yan argued.

Hey, Adelynn protested out loud even though she knew they would not hear her, I have a job.

Cutting down trees and clearing out leaves is not a job, Yan replied.

She's right, Yin said like it pained her to say that Yan was right about anything.

You are both wrong, she said out loud, I am going to look for a job at the dinner tomorrow.

They both knew that she had no such plans but now that she had said it there was no backing out, those two would bug her relentlessly.

Crap!

For two voices in her own mind, they were little bugging bitches.

Hey, we heard that Yin said, mind your language young lady.

Bragging Yan said, my baby, is growing up.

Both of you goodnight, she said as she set her cup on the table and climbed up the loft bed to get some sleep. If she was to wake up early then she needed to get some shut eye.

Goodnight sweery, Yin said.

Goodnight, dream that someone finally managed to remove the stick-up Yin's ass.

She smiled as she closed her eyes and tuned them out as they started arguing.

Hearing them was better than hearing the police officer tell her that her fiancé was not going to make it. She remembered the knot in her stomach as soon as she saw the two policemen walking down the aisle instead of her future husband. The news had hit her and thrown her off track so hard, like a freight train running at a hundred miles an hour and she was not sure she had ever gotten back on the track. She was not sure she really wanted to.

She subconsciously rubbed her stomach like she was getting rid of the knot as she fell asleep.

People would say she was crazy, but really who were they anyway?

They were nobody, she thought as she drifted off, they were nobody.

CHAPTER ONE.

The next morning she woke up to the sunlight streaming in through the unclosed windows, the birds chirping and the wind whispering.

This is heaven, she thought with a smile. This was what she needed.

She rolled out of bed and fell on all fours to the ground, she took a second down there and reminded herself to breathe. Just breathe you are okay, breath.

Then she picked herself up and headed for the bathroom to relieve herself before she headed for the kitchen for a cup of coffee.

She had just put in the kettle when she heard Yin, I hope you are planning to shower before you head out.

I took a shower recently, she replied.

Recently was three days ago, you almost smell like horse shit.

She snorted, you do not know how horse shit smells like.

Yin replied, that does not mean I cannot imagine and I would imagine it smells just like you do right now.

Yan chimed in, She's right.

They were exaggerating.

And good morning to both of you, she decided to ignore them as she poured the boiling water into a cup and headed for her favorite place out on the porch.

She sat down on the swing and set it in slow motion as she took in the beauty of the morning. The morning used to represent something different for her, now it just meant a new start. A step closer to healing someday down the line.

Maybe in three more years, she will be fine.

Do not think we have forgotten, Yin said and she sighed.

Okay, I will take a shower, does that make you happy.

It does not make me unhappy, Yin answered, now if only you could clean your bedroom floor then I would be happy.

She always imagined that if Yin was a person she would be one of those short older women who always had their hair pulled back in a tight bun with a constant frown on the face. Oh and a ruler in the hand to snap at your ass for making "mistakes."

I like that image, Yan said laughing.

I do not, Yin huffed mad.

Sometimes she forgot they were actually in her mind when she was thinking.

She took a quick shower, okay as quick as Yin would let her. Yin kept pointing out places she had not washed. She drew the line when Yin pointed to the nether regions.

She put on a clean underwear and an almost clean jeans trouser; wearing a trouser three times did not make it dirt. Just dirtish.

From the floor she picked up the top that almost seemed clean and smelled it, when she realized it did not smell that bad, she put it on.

Disgusting, Yin said, why would you take a shower then put on dirty clothes.

At least she took a shower, Yan pointed out and she liked Yan for that at the moment.

She reached to the side table for her gun and badge when she realized that she was not a detective anymore.

The fact slammed her really hard, and she rubbed her chest to ease the pain but it did not seem to go away.

A frustrated tear leaked down her cheek, when will the pain end? When would she think of her former life and not feel like her heart is ripping in pieces?

Breathe, she reminded herself.

Just breathe, you are fine.

She took one last deep breath and headed for the door, she could do this.

She could go out and be normal.

It seemed like Yin and Yan realized just how important this moment was, they did not say anything.

She got into her old pick up and drove to the only town in the area which was about thirty minutes away. She had visited the diner several times when she went to restock the pantry but she often sat at the back with her head hunched down.

The food was good and people friendly.

They were probably going to tell her there was no job available and chase her off the property but she had promised.

She looked at herself one last time in the mirror and tried to brush her hair back with her hand.

You should have washed it then it would have been easy to brush, Yin chimed in helpfully, it seemed they were back.

She looks okay, not everybody likes their hair as uptight as yours.

Both of you shut up, do not embarrass me in there.

She started it, Yan protested.

Both of you hush.

She patted her hair one last time, here goes nothing she said as she opened the door with a little more gusto than necessary and felt it hit something.

She had not packed next to the wall, was the first thought that popped into her head before she saw the top someone's head disappear down from her front window.

She ran round to find a man down on the ground holding his nose, cups of coffee spilled all over.

She went to help, "hey you okay?" She asked as she got closer slowly.

Ooh dear Lord, she killed somebody, Yin exclaimed.

Quick get back in the car and just speed off, Yan suggested quickly.

She should call the ambulance, Yin countered back.

All their voices were drowned out when the man groaned so she moved forward and knelt on one knee next to him.

"I am fine but I think my nose is bleeding," his voice was horse with just the right depth, his voice seemed coated with dripping honey.

She ignored the flutter in her stomach when she heard it.

"I think so too, let me give you a ride to the nearest emergency room." She said as she tried to help him get on his feet. He was easily six foot two with a body of someone who worked out so she was not really helping him stand rather just guiding him up.

She helped him to the passenger seat while he still held his head high to help regulate the bleeding. She ran back to the driver's seat.

"Where to the hospital?" She asked after she sat down and tied her seat belt. He looked at her for the first time and she felt like someone just punched the air out of her stomach.

He was gorgeous even with a broken bleeding nose.

Aaaw, Yan swarmed.

Yin just cleared her throat, impressive.

"Take a right here it is just straight ahead about five minutes away I will direct you." He said again in that voice, it was a wonder she caught anything he said.

She drove him to the hospital, it was small but the service was excellent, three minutes after they got there he was carted off to see the door.

She plopped down the chair, great the first time in town and she had hit the most handsome man she had seen in a while.

Just great, she said as she buried her face in her hands.

Not one of your finest moments, Yin said helpfully.

Yan just started singing, Adelynn is in love.

Shut up, both of you.

CHAPTER TWO

As soon as Doctor Nathan saw him he flinched, "Mmh dude did you run into a door?"

The bleeding had stopped but his nose was still throbbing like an SOB.

"Yeah, I kind of did," Nathan was his best friend and they had grown up together since they were kids. They left for college to see the other parts of the country but in the end, they ended back home. Nathan opened the small clinic and he ran for the area chief Police and won because of his background in the police academy and army, a job he took very seriously.

"I have been through worse," he added.

Nathan looked up, "Yeah you have," Curious, "were you not looking where you were going?"

He did not want to tell Nathan about the nice lady who had hit him with the door that would just make Nathan more curious. All his friends have been trying for years to get him to settle down and get married. Just because they were married and popping off kids, they thought that he also had to do the same. He did not have anything against ladies, he had just not met the right one for him to take the plunge and he was willing to wait for her. He did not want to make the same mistakes that his parents made when they married the wrong partner and ended up being miserable for the rest of their life.

Nathan gently poking at his nose brought him back to the reality of where he was.

"It seems like there are no major bones broken, just some ice and it will be back to normal in a few days," Nathan said as he went back behind the desk.

He took a pen and started writing something on the notepad, "This are some painkillers, let us go and get them filled for you."

No that would not do, if Nathan went with him to the pharmacy they had to pass through the waiting room and they would see her. There will be no stopping Nathan from meddling after that.

He liked his life as it was, so he stood up quickly, "No just give me, I will get it filled and be on the way. I am already late for work."

That was the wrong move, Nathan knew immediately that something was up.

It was a bitch to have a friend who knew you since you were in diapers.

"There is something I have to talk to you about anyway, Lisa sent me." Nathan said as he stood up, "and I have some down time now, we can walk and talk."

David groaned, that name always sent shivers of terror down his spine. Nathan's wife Lisa was like a one-woman army whose main purpose in life was to get David hitched. She was adorable at five foot two and when you looked at her all innocent you won't believe the number of shenanigans she had gotten him into in the name of "helping him."

Everything was fair in love, that was her motto and as the victim of the motto, he did not believe that at all.

It was not really fair to listen to one of Lisa's friend whine about her ex-boyfriend for two hours. Or better yet the one who tried to sing for him and her voice was one octave lower than a siren's call, high pitched and just off. At the end, he had to smile and tell her how good she was.

He was not going through that again.

He followed Nathan who had already left the room and was on the hallway.

"What does Lisa want this time?" He asked even though he already knew.

"You know Lisa, nothing much," Nathan started which meant David would hate it, "She has this classmate who is actually a really nice lady, and you will love her. She is beautiful I have seen pictures."

David held back another groan, when will this madness end? He thought just as they pushed the door at the end of the hallway open and seated there on the chairs was his salvation.

He did not think twice about it, he just followed his instinct. He left Nathan standing there and strode to where the cute lady who had brought him was seated and kissed her.

Dear God, he hoped she did not slap him.

****

She should slap him.

Or maybe just push him away.

But it seemed that all her senses had fled the moment she walked out her front door this morning because here she was kissing a stranger. It was not a deep kiss, but it was intimate enough to establish that they knew each other better than they actually did.

Maybe when she had hit him with the door he suffered some kind of concussion that created an illusion to him that she was his girlfriend, she mused. It would be bad of her not to play along until his doctor told her otherwise, that is what she told herself anyway.

When he pulled back he looked kind of surprised but he masked it and turned to look at where he had come from.

"Nathan I want to introduce you to my girlfriend."

Okay, you screwed up the man, Yan chimed in.

She ignored her but Yan was right, maybe she had hit him harder than she thought she had.

She looked at the other man named Nathan, he seemed to be the doctor if the lab coat he was wearing was any indication.

"Is he okay?" She asked as Nathan looked at her weirdly, maybe she had some vegetable stuck in her teeth. Or maybe she had a sign on her forehead that screamed, she hears and talks to voices in her head.

Nathan seemed to come to a certain conclusion before he answered her, "Yah he is going to be fine. With just some ice on his nose and he will be okay."

"Are you sure he does not have a concussion?" She questioned again because what other reason could there be? Or maybe it was just her luck she had knocked over a crazy person who would follow her around for as long as she lived.

She could feel him tense beside her but Nathan smiled and said, "He is fine."

The man then turned to her and said, "Beb we have to go fill some prescriptions I will see you in a few." He planted another kiss on her lips before dragging off the doctor.

She sat back down with a plop, well that went well.

One crazy person meets another crazy person.

You should not let a stranger kiss you like that, Yin thought now was the perfect time to chip in.

Don't be such a prude, Yan answered.

He is crazy, the doctor said he was going to be fine, make a run for it before he comes back, Yin added.

Yin is probably right, I liked that kiss a lot but that was not normal behavior, Yan agreed with Yin, this was bad.

Maybe he wants a kidney, Yin contemplated, and people will come from that corridor to wheel you in at any second for surgery.

Don't be stupid Yin, he looked perfectly healthy, Yan argued.

Shrugging Yin added, just saying.

Well, she was not taking any chances, he was okay. She was just about to stand up when he came back without the doctor. He held her by her shoulder and led her outside.

As soon as they were close to her car she turned and asked, "What was that all about?"

CHAPTER THREE

"Did you hit you hit your head when you fell down?" Adelynn asked before he even had the chance to answer the first question. "That would be the only explanation for what just happened."

David looked back to the hospital window where the nurse and Nathan were not even being subtle about watching them.

Adelynn looked behind him and caught them watching too.

"Can we at least go to the diner, if we can get some breakfast I shall explain what is going on." At least she had not slapped him yet, he saw that as a plus. Just to make sure she would not back out he added, "You made me spill all my coffee."

He did not mention the fact that he had already had breakfast and the coffee was for his officers. It did not seem relevant.

It worked when she released a sigh and said, "Okay I guess I owe you."

He hoped she remembered that because he planned to cash on that favor pretty soon in a much bigger way.

God this is screwed up, he thought as he went to the passenger side of her vehicle and got in.

They did not speak again until they were seated at Maria's Dinner. The dinner was owned by Maria who ran the dinner as if it was her own home, with a tight fist. She made it the only decent restaurant around and the locals liked the homeliness it portrayed, so it was almost always full. Luckily, the breakfast rush was gone and there was some time before the lunch rush came in, that would give him time and privacy to explain.

He loved his small town and its people but there was no privacy among the locals. Everyone knew just about everything about each other.

When they swung open the door, there were only about four patrons left, scattered all over the room. Others had rushed off to work or to do what they had planned for the day.

He led the way to the back booth and she slid in on to the side facing the door, interesting he thought as he slid in next to her.

He could not seat with his back facing the door and it seemed neither could she. What he had found out about her must have been true.

When she moved to the town about ten months ago he had her checked out, he made it a point to know everyone inhabiting his town.

He did not go into details on why she moved here but he just wanted to confirm that she was not a culprit on the run. He had been pleasantly surprised to find out that she was a fellow law enforcement. That was one of the reasons he had not driven out there often to check up on her.

He got the sense that she wanted her privacy so on the times he went to check on her he did not knock or talk to her, just walked the perimeter to ensure everything was secure.

That made him sound like a stalker, he thought with a smile.

She cleared her throat beside him, seemed like time to explain himself was finally here.

"So do you want to start?"

"Just a second," he said and as if on cue Maria arrived beside them. She was a tall, busty woman who always had her lime green uniform, an apron and a pad to write on. Personally, he thought that the color was too much but he never said anything on the account of the fact that he liked his hand attached to his body. In the former life, Maria had been in the army. Lime green made her happy so he did not complain as long as he got his food hot and delicious every time.

"What can I get you?" Maria asked Adelynn, she knew what David wanted, she had fed him since he was young.

"Just some tea and toast," she said.

"Coming right up," and just like that, she was gone.

For such a large lady she moved fast, almost floating.

"Wow," Adelynn said grinning after Maria left and David liked her smile so he smiled right back at her.

"Yah that is Maria for you."

"And to think I was coming to ask for a job before I ran into you, that woman would eat me for breakfast."

He understood that she meant that Maria would work her to the bones.

He smiled back at her, "You do not seem like someone afraid of a little hard work."

She smiled back, "Am not."

Maria came back with some tea for both of them, toast for Adelynn and some traditional root vegetables for David.

After she left they both stirred some sugar into their tea before Adelynn asked again, "About earlier?"

He released a sigh as he replaced his cup on the table.

He wished he could seat on the opposite side from her and watch her face as he talked to her to see how she would react.

"That was stupid and I am sorry." He said.

"I am more curious as to why you did it," she said as she moved to the side of the booth. She could not seat with her back to the door but she could look at him from her side. This position helped her have a view of both the door and David as he spoke.

"Truthfully?" He asked as he moved to the center.

She nodded.

"You were my escape route," he said smiling sheepishly.

"Expound," she said.

He released a sigh, "the doctor is my best friend and we have known each other since we were kids, and since he got married he has been bugging me to get married too." At the mention of marriage, she felt something painful lurch in her stomach but she suppressed it.

"Nathan and his wife have seen it as their duty to see me get hitched soon."

"You can just say no."

He looked at her like she had said something crazy, "I tried, believe me, I have but the more I resist the more I get roped in. I feel like the sheep going around a tree tying itself to the tree over and over again."

He then went ahead to narrate to her some of the dates he had been to and by the time he was done she had laughed so hard her stomach hurt.

"So when I went to see Nathan today and he mentioned that he had set up another blind date for me I could not just go through with it."

She smiled, "so you saw kissing me and lying to him would help you out?"

He laughed, "Yeah."

She smiled again, "that was stupid what if tomorrow they find out that you were lying they would come back with the same girls."

"What if they do not?" He looked at her so hopefully, she sat at the edge of her seat.

Here is the bullet to my foot with my own gun, David thought as he explained, "What if you pretended to be my girlfriend for a little while, that would get them to back off."

He heart sunk, "why would I do that?" She was certainly not smiling anymore.

"I could give you a job at the station."

Her voice was cold as she asked, "How did you know I was a cop."

"Even if I had not checked you out, I would have figured it out, it is in the way you carry yourself."

"You checked me out?"

He shrugged, "Am the chief of police I had to."

She was silent so long he was not sure she would answer him.

"I am not ready to be a cop," she said and he had almost given up when she added, "But I can take a low key desk job."

He almost pumped his fist in the air in victory but he held himself back and schooled his face into one of mild interest, "So you will pretend to be my girlfriend?"

"Why not." She shrugged. "It is helping you and I get to leave the house."

He had so many questions like why she lived so high up in the cabin alone but he did not want to push his luck.

He held out his hand and she took it in a handshake, he felt a zing of attraction go through him. He suppressed it.

"Deal," he said, "See you tomorrow in the morning at the office." And before she changed her mind he paid the breakfast bill. Before he left the booth he turned to her and said, "That kiss was interesting." Then he was gone.

After he left and she was seated there drinking her tea did she realize that she did not even know his name.

Great I have a boyfriend and he is nameless, she thought.

Yin chose that moment to chime in, young lady what have you done? You need a whoop ass.

Yan just snorted, this will be very interesting.

She agreed with Yan, this was going to be very interesting.

It seemed like everything was going to be interesting.

CHAPTER FOUR

The next day she was out of bed pretty early and she took a shower without the harping of Yin and Yan. She even managed to locate some clean jeans and a shirt.

You really should take care of those dirty clothes, Yin said.

Or we could just go shopping for new clean clothes, Yan suggested.

Adelynn liked Yan's idea better than doing laundry so she noted it down on her to do list for the day.

Stop encouraging her, what should she do with all the other dirty clothes she has? Because even if she buys some more they will still get dirty.

Burn all the dirty clothes, Yan suggested gleefully and Adelynn agreed again.

She could hear Yin rolling her eyes at both of them, you are encouraging her with some bad habits.

Yan answered, that is my job and I take my job very seriously.

She was still smiling as she closed the door and made her way to her car.

Ooh did Yin and Yan entertain her.

About thirty-five minutes later she was seated on the parking lot of the police station looking at the building that looked so formidable. She had not set foot in a police station after the fateful day. She had quit her job and packed her bag and moved to the cabin her parents had left to her when they passed away. It seemed like the perfect gate away and with the settlement she got from the company that produced Martin's car she did not have to work.

I can just turn back and go home, she thought, she could not do this.

It's time, Yin said, at least just go in and see how it is if you do not like it you can always leave.

Yan agreed, you are not here by force, no one can stop you from leaving.

She hated it when they both agreed on something but it made sense. She would go in for an hour and if she did not like it she could just live and go back to her cabin. Deal or no deal.

She yelped and almost jumped out of her skin when someone rapped on the passenger side window.

Rolling the window down she said, "You scared me."

David just shook his head smiling, "Seems like you have lost that touch you had as a lead detective."

Raising an eyebrow, "Just how much information did you get on me?"

With a grim smile, he said, "Enough," he knew. But the fact that he did not ask for more made her comfortable enough to go out the driver's side of the door.

She fell a step with him and took his coffee, "You go around checking up on people who come to live here?"

He just shrugged, "I like to know everything that is going on."

"I see," she said as she took a sip of his coffee, black just the way she liked it. The coffee brought with it memories of the thrill of being called out on a case, the grueling and satisfying long hours of digging through evidence. She missed being a detective so much her heart hurt.

But just as she had told him yesterday, she was not ready yet.

"Enjoying my coffee," he asked with an arch of his eyebrows as he pushed the door to the main building open.

She smiled at him, "So much."

He just laughed at that.

"Great I found myself a coffee hogger."

She batted her eyelids at him, "But my sweet you love me."

They were laughing when they got into the main part of the office where people were already working. They stopped what they were doing to look at them.

"People this is Adelynn, she will be working with us for a while." He introduced her. They all greeted her warmly and it was not long before one of the women, called Cristy came and whisked her away from David.

He just smiled at her as she was pulled away, "Enjoy," he murmured then he was gone.

Crap, she still did not know his name.

This was just great.

*****

The rest of the day was actually great, and as Adelynn left for home she was pleasantly surprised.

Cristy was a good person and she chatted almost nonstop while she showed her the ropes. Adelynn did not have the heart to tell her that she already knew most of the things she kept showing her, so she just went along with it.

The upside was when she asked about the boss, Cristy was happy to fill her in.

His name was David Kaba, he was thirty was thirty-two years old and his mother and father had lived about ten minutes from the town. He had grown up in the area and moved out when he was eighteen to join the army then later he joined the police academy. Some speculate that it was because his high school girlfriend broke his heart while others say he has wanted a change of scenery. He came back to the small town and joined the police force for about two years before the former police chief died and he took over.

Ooh, Cristy told her a lot, even where David lived and that his favorite ice cream was chocolate and his favorite shirt was blue corduroy. She did not want to know how Cristy knew all of this things yet she was just the secretary.

She had opened the passenger side door and she was laying out some paperwork she wanted to catch up on at home when she heard David speaking behind her, "Hey Adelynn."

She jumped a foot high and hit her head on the top of the car.

She rubbed her head as she swore and turned to him, "You have to stop doing that."

He just grinned at her, "You have to reshape your detective skills."

She was not going to touch that statement with a thirty-yard pole stick so she evaded it and asked, "Can I help you, David?"

He just grinned some more, "I see someone has been snooping."

She smirked at him removing her hand from her head that had now stopped throbbing, "Detective skills."

He smiled, "How much do you know?"

She shook her head, "trust me you do not want to know."

He raised one eyebrow in question, "Cristy?"

She just laughed, "I will never reveal my sources."

"Good," he said, "I came to invite you over for dinner."

She started to object when he said, "It will be at Nathan's place so this is all for the deal."

"Okay, what time?"

"I will pick you up at seven."

"I can drive myself over," she said.

"What will Nathan and Lisa think if you get over there alone?"

"Okay, I will be ready by seven." She said as she got into the car and closed the door after her.

He placed both hands outside her open window and looked at her, "hey I hope you still want to do this."

Did she?

She just nodded her head yes and he stepped away.

Ooh boy, this will not end well, Yin said.

For ones, she agreed with her.

***

She was on her way home when Yan, the helpful voice that she was asked, so about this date non-date what will you wear?

She pulled up beside the road to panic for a second. Or two.

When she had left the city she had not carried anything fit for the company.

Even before Martin died she had not been one of those girls who liked to wear fancy dresses, put her in jeans and a t-shirt and she was comfortable.

Since Martin came from money, when they went out for events she had dressed up for him. A memory flashed right before her eyes on the first time they had attended a benefit together:

She had walked down the stairs in the dress her best friend Amy had helped her choose for the occasion. She could still remember the look on Martin's face the first time he saw her coming down. If she could describe it she would say he had looked swept away with love. She did not know how to explain exactly but it is the look the love of your life has on the face as you walk towards them. That was the day she knew that he loved her. He did not have to say it, it was on the way his lips turned up in a smile, the way his eyes shone and the way he glowed in her image.

She rubbed her chest as tears streamed down her cheeks, God she could not do this.

The desire to flee to her house and just close off the world like she had done the past year was so strong.

You promised, Yin said.

I promised she repeated, I promised.

She took her phone and dialed the one number she had not called in about one year, as soon as the call was answered she said, "Amy I screwed up and it hurts."

CHAPTER FIVE

For the first time, David came up with a plan that he had started to rethink.

He had figured going in that he would just pretend that they were dating and they would keep being friends but he had not factored in the fact that he might start liking her.

He smiled as he remembered her drinking his coffee with no apology.

He had spent most of the day watching her through the glass window that separated his office from the other work and he liked how she interacted with everyone. One time or the other he had seen her retreat into herself but she was never rude to any of the others when that happened.

She would go to the hallway, gather herself then come back smiling.

He liked that about her, he thought as he wiped his body after the shower.

Which was a problem?

Would he be able to let her go when all this pretending was done?

****

Turns out calling your best friend who was a fashion model for help on what to wear was not a good idea, Adelynn thought as she looked at herself in the mirror.

Not a good idea at all.

Amy had made her jump through the hoops of going to get her hair and nails done and when she had listed all she had in her closet/floor, Amy had made her go buy a new dress.

She had been on phone the whole time and each time she tried to hang up Amy threatened to come over and help her herself. Since she was about a thousand miles away and had her own life, she went along with it.

Thank God it was about three hours to seven when she called Amy or David would have found her dripping wet from her shower.

She took a picture and sent it to Adelynn.

A minute later the phone rang, "You now look presentable."

Adelynn snorted, "I look good."

"Yeah you do," Amy said with a small laugh, "I always hated how you can look good with so little preparation while some of us have to take hours to get ready."

Adelynn laughed, "You call three hours little preparation?"

This time it was Amy who scoffed, "With the amount of work we had to put in, that was very little time."

Smiling, "Thanks Amy, I would not have done this without you." Adelynn said sincerely, touching the yellow dress that hugged her slender body and flowed right from her waist.

"You are so welcome." There was some silence then Amy spoke up, "You are going to call me again right?"

"I am."

"This year without you was hard."

"For me too," she said as a tear slid down her cheek, good thing she had on no makeup. She had settled for a simple nude lipstick.

Sounding teary Amy said, "Do not forget I need a blow by blow details of this date."

Adelynn just rolled her eyes, "It is not a date."

When Amy had picked up the phone, Adelynn had explained everything about the deal with David. After she had calm down, Amy had shown her how this was a good idea. Even though it was not a date, it would give her a chance to socialize with other people. Get out of her shell a little bit.

Amy answered, "I know but a girl can dream right." She could hear the smile in her friend's voice.

"Yeah right," she said just as the doorbell rang. "I think he is here."

Amy started singing, "Adelynn and David sitting in a tree, K-I-S-S-I-N" Adelynn disconnected the call before she finished.

She went down the loft stairs smiling as she imagined Amy back in the city laughing her ass off.

And that girl could laugh.

She opened the door to find a strikingly handsome David in jeans and a smug t-shirt waiting for her at the door.

Damn, t-shirts that tight should be made illegal, she thought as she stood there just looking at his biceps.

"Wow, you look amazing," his voice snapped her out of the daze she had been imagining him pulling her closer to him.

She smiled as she looked up, "So do you. Let me just get my bag and shawl and we shall be on our way.

As she locked the door behind her Yan said, go get him.

Shut up, she whispered under her breath.

"What?" David asked. Apparently, he also had the hearing capacity of a bat.

"Nothing lets head out."

She said as she went to the passenger side of his pickup. The step was high up from the ground.

Men with big cars, she thought with an eye roll.

She was still figuring out how to climb without toppling over and flashing him when her dress went over her head when she felt someone lift her from the ground.

The zing that went through her body from his touch left her breathless as she sat down.

"Thanks," she said breathlessly. He nodded and closed the door behind him as he went round the bonnet for the driver's seat.

Get a grip woman, Yin said. Do not go around throwing your underwear at him.

I am trying, she said just as he got in. She was pretty sure he had not heard her talking to herself this time. Or if he did he did not mention it as he put the car in the shift and they drove off.

****

The dinner was pleasant if you count being under a microscopic scrutiny pleasant. Apparently, Nathan and Lisa did not believe that they were a couple.

As Lisa had put it politely when they got there, "How come we are just hearing about her now? She is beautiful and you never keep anything from Nathan."

"We wanted to surprise you and Adelynn likes her privacy."

The silent unbelieving mmh could be heard all the way into town.

Thank God for children, Nathan and Lisa's son Drew chatted the whole dinner and made it bearable.

She got that they were protective of David and they still did not know her yet their questions pickled.

She brushed it off when David took her hands in his and held it all night. She knew that it was probably for a show but she did not care, it was comforting.

They both released a sigh simultaneously when they got to the car, "That was not so bad." She said and David burst out laughing and soon they were both laughing.

It felt good.

She did not remember the last time she had laughed so much and this hard. The laughter was coming from her belly and vibrating through her body.

"Yeah," David said when they both stopped, smiling, "Not that bad."

As they pulled away she asked, "Is it always that bad or was it my presence?"

David looked at her briefly, "I think she was punishing us for foiling her plans to set me up with her friend."

Smiling, "we did ruin her plans."

"Yeah," David replied, "she will get over it soon enough."

The radio that was on David's belt crackled, "David," he picked it up.

"Yes."

"Mr. Tingi is at it again."

David released a sigh, "where was he spotted."

"On the road leading out of town."

"Okay, I am on it."

He returned the radio to its former position, "We are going to have to make a stop."

"What's up?"

"One of the residents, Mr. Tingi gets drunk and starts walking in the middle of the road saying he is following the light."

Adelynn smiled, "This is the scope of your work here."

He smiled back, "Not exciting enough for you?"

She sighed, "It's a good change of pace."

"It won't take long, I just have to get him in the car so he does not get hurt or run over by an outsider then I can take you home."

She placed one hand on his arm to get his attention, "Hey its okay."

Their eyes met and held for a moment and what was unsaid was more than what was said.

Then he went back to driving.

Getting Mr. Tingi to get into the car proved harder than it normally was and by the time they got to his place he had already passed out in the back seat.

Between the two of them, they managed to get him to his bed and tuck him in. They locked the door behind them and dropped the spare key where they had found it.

"I will drive by to make sure he has his other key," David said and she smiled at him.

It was another forty minutes before they made it to her place. He pulled the car in front of the house but none of them made a move to get out.

David rested his head back on the headrest and looked at her, "If this was a real date I am so sure I would never see you again."

She smiled back at him, "Totally, you are lucky it was not a date." Shrugging, "Besides I liked helping Mr. Tingi, reminded me why I became a cop."

"Why did you quit?" The question was out before he could stop it. He had told himself that he would not push her but he was curious.

"It became too difficult," She said and he knew there was more to it. Adelynn did not seem like a person who quit when things got tough. She looked like a person who would put up a hell of a fight.

"Okay," he said and they both knew he did not believe her.

The pain he saw reflected in her eyes stopped him from asking any more questions. Before he knew what he was doing, he had leaned over to her side.

He did not realize until she scrambled out of the car that he had planned on kissing her.

Damn! He needed to get a grip on his impulse.

She did not wait for him to apologize, just slammed the door behind her and fled for her house.

Ladies and gentlemen, David Kaba making women flee since 2018, he imagined Nathan saying and smiled.

CHAPTER SIX

After a restless night, she got to the office early to find Cristy eating popcorns and watching through the back window into the neighbor's compound.

She did not want to know why the police station compound was not fenced or why it backed into someone's compound.

Adelynn joined Cristy at the window, "What are you watching?"

Her attention was soon caught by a woman shouting that she was going to leave and go back to her parents' house and never come back.

"That," Cristy said as she filled her hands with more popcorns, "Better than any theatre." Then she stuffed her mouth.

"What is happening?"

"Mr. and Mrs. Agothe, he always goes away for a couple of days on a drinking bender and when he comes back they argue like this every time."

"Seriously?" she asked as she sat down beside her.

"Yep, so much fun to watch every time."

Smiling, "Is she really going to leave?"

Scoffing, "No."

Their attention went back to the scene outside when Mrs. Agothe threatened to hit Mr. Agothe with a frying pan.

Thirty minutes later David walked into the office to find all his co-workers around the window laughing.

He took a moment to appreciate just how beautiful Adelynn was when she laughed before he walked over to them. As soon as one person spotted him they all dispersed except Adelynn.

"David," Cristy said with a grin as she passed him. He should make her call him sir but he did not have the heart to. She had known him since he was in diapers, it would just be weird if she called him sir. She would probably even swaddle him for making him call her sir. He will always be a kid to her.

He nodded at her as she passed.

"Morning," he said as he sat on the table next to Adelynn, "I see you have found our prime source of entertainment."

She smiled at him and he could swear he saw the sunrise right there in her eyes as they shone, "Yeah, Cristy was good enough to introduce me."

It was hard but he managed to tear his eyes away to look out, he laughed when he saw Mrs. Agothe chase her husband around with a rolling pin in her hand. They were old so it seemed that even if they were moving it seemed like watching it in slow motion.

"Apparently she could not find the pan," Adelynn said and he could hear the smile in her voice.

"Those two have always been entertaining." He said.

"Aren't you afraid that one day one of them will hurt the other?"

He looked at her, "Those two have been at it since I was ten and they have never hurt each other. I am not scared."

Thou he was touched by her concern for them.

Slapping her hands on her thigh one time she got up, "Gotta get to work now." She smiled as she looked at him, "Boss."

He should have let her go.

He really should have.

As she passed his hand shot out and held her, she stopped and looked at him, "About yesterday..." he started saying then he did not know what he was going to say in the first place.

It seemed she understood because she nodded, "I know."

Then just like that, she was gone and he was left there looking at the Agothe's chasing each other. Was life really like that? Going around in circles and going nowhere fast?

Suddenly he felt old for his thirty-two years.

He was turning thirty-three, precisely in three days, maybe he should start thinking about getting married and having kids.

He had a good job that he had worked his ass off to build but that did not keep him warm at night.

The cold nights alone had started being long.

With a sigh he got up, Adelynn was messing with his head.

***

It was a coincidence.

Adelynn really wanted to believe it was a coincidence that Lisa was waiting for her at the diner the next day at lunchtime when David was busy at work.

She knew better when Lisa stood up and walked towards her as soon as walked into the dinner. She looked like a one-woman army on a warpath that was headed directly to her.

Damn, she should have packed her own lunch.

Where was Cristy when she was needed?

Damn, you are in trouble, Yan chimed in with a sing-song voice.

She forced a smile, "Hey Lisa."

"Hey, Adelynn what a coincidence," that was a load of crap but Adelynn did not think to call her out would improve their already strained relationship.

"Come join me," and as if she was scared she would say no, she took her right hand and pulled her towards the table she had been seated. Resistance was futile so she went along with it.

She took a seat before she was shoved into the booth.

She would not put it past Lisa to shove her in in case she refused.

Lisa smiled, apparently pleased with herself, and she took a seat across from her.

Adelynn did not feel comfortable seating in the middle of the dinner because it meant there were so many blind spots but at least she was facing the door.

Like clockwork, Maria arrived to take her order and after Adelynn ordered some rice and bean stew, Maria was gone.

Adelynn was still impressed with how fast that woman could move.

"So when did you get into town," it seemed like Lisa was jumping right in.

"About ten months ago." She answered, better to get this over with. She was sure Nathan was somewhere grilling David. Lisa probably gave him a list of questions so they could compare answers later at home.

Lisa should have worked for immigration, the job would have suited her just fine.

"What brought you to our town?"

"The mountains?" she said and tried to smile but Lisa did not smile back. "I needed a break."

That pinged Lisa's interest, "From?"

On better thought maybe Lisa would have made a fantastic journalist, but that did not mean she was sharing anything with her about her past. She could barely think about it without feeling her chest constrict. She squashed the urge to rub her chest.

"Life," she answered firmly looking directly into Lisa's eyes. Something in her eyes must have told her she was not going to answer that question because she changed tactics.

"When did you meet David?"

Thirty minutes later Adelyn felt like she had been put in a washing machine on a full spin cycle of about eighteen turns.

So this was what it felt like to be run off the road with a bus, she thought as she watched Lisa stand up.

"I am so glad we ran into each other," Lisa said as she stood up, "enjoy your lunch."

"I am glad too," Adelynn said, amused.

"I will see you on Tuesday at David's birthday party."

Crap David had not told her that, "yeah I am looking forward to it." She lied, thank God she had gone through the academy and she could school her features.

As soon as the door closed behind Lisa she took her phone and sent a quick text to David:

I just got run over by the Lisa train

So glad we practiced.

A minute later she heard her phone ping she smiled when she read:

My train is currently running over me.

Poor David, she thought with a smile.

It was good he could handle himself.

****

"Lisa sent you," he said to Nathan after he read Adelynn's text message.

Nathan had the grace to look embarrassed, that lasted about thirty seconds.

"Yeah, she is just looking out for you."

When Adelynn had gone out for lunch, he had been out doing some patrol. He had come back to leave his jacket and go join her in the diner when he found Nathan lounging on the visitor's chair eating a sandwich.

And waiting for him.

He had expected this ambush.

He was even surprised it had taken this long for them to get to him.

With a sigh, he sat down and picked up one of Nathan's sandwiches, if he was staying he was eating.

"Hey that is mine," Nathan protested.

"Tough luck," David said as he took a bite, to the now pouting Nathan he asked, "what brings you by my office this fine afternoon."

That was when the questions started, just as he had predicted. Lisa really needed to brush up her game.

Now he answered Nathans statement of Lisa looking out for him, "Tell her that I can take care of myself, I carry a gun for a living."

Nathan snorted, "Guns cannot protect your heart."

Raising one eyebrow, "and Lisa can?"

Nathan nodded yes so convincingly that David burst out laughing.

The things his best friend came up with.

"You my friend have been whipped," David said.

Grinning Nathan answered, "Yeah I have and I am very happy about it."

For a second David was jealous, he wanted to love someone that much he believed all the ridiculous things she told him.

"Well take your happiness out of my office I have work to do."

David stood up, "Remember on Tuesday we have your birthday party."

With a sigh, he said, "I remember, I keep telling you guys I do not need a birthday party."

Nathan just shrugged, "That is the cost of having friends who care, deal with it."

Then he was off whistling, perhaps to heal more people out there.

David just smiled after him, it was really hard having friends who loved you.

They meddled in your business, took your sandwiches without asking, helped themselves to your office but when you fall they were there to pick you up. That was the best part of all.

He was a blessed man.

CHAPTER SEVEN

Tuesday came by so fast, during the day everyone wished David a happy birthday.

From the warm wishes, it was obvious that he was well liked by his colleagues. They had lunch together as usual at the Maria dinner, before heading back to work. They had developed a routine, he came to her desk when he wanted to consult with her on any cases, they had lunch together and when she had a new thought she went to his office.

The cases around there were pretty simple, he told her that the difficult cases mostly involved fighting over land by relatives otherwise all the others were calm.

She liked it that way, no chances of her making another mistake like the one that had forced her to quit the force.

She still could not believe that she had almost killed someone.

The man deserved it from the way he had been treating his wife but the fact that she had almost pulled the trigger on an unarmed civilian had scared her shitless.

She was not that person, so that evening she had walked into the chief of police office and handed in her badge and gun.

She could still remember the look of disbelief on his face.

"You cannot do this, you have been under a lot of stress after Martin died and we understand it was just a mistake."

The mistake did not involve beating a man senseless in front of the wife and wailing kids. It did not involve the black rage that had enveloped her or the desire to hurt someone so bad. To this day she was grateful for her partner who pulled her off him because right now she would be in jail facing a murder charge.

It was the end of the rope for her and she had told the chief of police so, he did not understand but he did not argue.

"You are a damn good detective Adelynn, if you want your job back it shall be here for you."

She had just nodded then she had walked out, that was the last day she had been in the city.

She was glad that none of the things she had done had ended up in her records, being loved by the chief of police was good apparently. But that one incident would always haunt her.

No need to dredge up old memories, she thought as she pulled up to her cabin to change before she went back to town for David's party.

Just as she opened the door Yin decided to speak up, someone did not get David a present.

Mmh, what would Lisa think of that? Yan chimed in.

Crap it seemed like changing of clothes would have to wait up to later, she thought as she got back in and turned the car around.

Does it bother you how easily we can manipulate you? Of course, Yan had to ask.

Shut up, she said and decided to ignore them.

****

Operating on little to no sleep was no fun, Adelynn thought as she stared at the bleary screen of her computer. The words on the screen seemed to read bouncy which could not make sense as she was reading a police report.

Four times she had caught herself dozing off.

Six times, Yin corrected her.

She stuck out her tongue at Yin even though she knew they could not see her.

She was just too tired to come up with a reply.

"Hi Adelynn," the source of her sleepless condition spoke right behind her.

She cleared her throat, "Hey David."

"You okay? You seem off."

Yah I am not okay because I spent all night thinking of you and tossing and turning, Yan chimed in.

"Yah I am fine just a little bit tired."

"You should go home and get some sleep if you are not okay, tomorrow is also another day."

She took him up on the offer without disagreeing, "Okay."

She had almost made it to the door when she felt a hand on her shoulder. She did not have to look back to know it was David, it was apparent from the way shivers ran down her spine.

"On second thought let me drive you home, I do not want to get the call that you had driven yourself into a ditch."

She blamed the sleepless brain for letting him lead her into his car, she was not sure how she made it up his passenger seat. She was out even before he went round to his seat.

She looked so cute asleep, David thought as he watched Adelynn sleep.

When she was sleeping like now her features relaxed and she was not so closed off. He felt like he was seeing her well for the first time and he liked it. He was glad that she trusted him enough to sleep in his truck with him there, that she trusted him to take her home safely.

It felt good to be wanted and to take care of another person, David thought as he shifted the car into gear.

What he felt for her had changed with time, did she feel it too? He had to convince her that he was the right man for her because she was the right woman for him.

He just had to prove it to her.

When he pulled up at her curb, he retrieved her keys from her handbag and proceeded to open her front door. He went back to the pickup and lifted her off the passenger seat, gently.

He carried her into the house and he was pleasantly surprised by what he saw. The exposed wood and high ceilings with rustic charm seemed like her.

He carried her up the loft and placed her on the bed.

Before he left he found a piece of paper and wrote her a note. He placed it on her bedside table, gave her a kiss on the cheek and left.

CHAPTER EIGHT

When she woke up and found the note she was not really sure what to think at first.

After some prompting from Yin and Yan, she decided to take him up on the offer for dinner.

"It is better than seating around here mopping," As Yan had clearly stated.

Her protest that she did not mop went right over their heads.

One ought to laugh at the irony in that.

She followed instructions and she arrived at his place just when the sun was setting and he was waiting for her on the front porch.

Standing there a beer on his hand, bathing in the moonlight, it was enough to make any girl swoon.

She was not your regular girl but she did swoon a little bit.

After she got her balance back on her knees she walked towards him.

"Hae," she said, hands in her pocket, rocking slightly on the balls of her feet.

"Hae," he tipped his beer towards her. "Nice weather we have here."

She smiled, "really nice."

"Come on up I will get you one," he said tipping his bottle again towards her.

Going up the stairs she said, "Actually I prefer wine."

He grinned, "A girl with refined taste." Going towards the door, "Come on in I will hook you up."

His house was the definition of a true bachelor pad. Black leather seats, mahogany desks and tables, dark drapes, grey walls and...

"Is that a basketball hoop at the top of your kitchen island?"

Grinning at her, "what can I say I love basketball."

"I see and you get the urge to play indoors often."

Great go ahead insult the man who invited you over for dinner, Yin chimed in.

He was not offended, "Probably." He retrieved a bottle of white wine from the fridge.

"This is the only bottle of wine I have. I hope it will do."

"Yah it is fine, thanks."

"My sister left it when she came over." He said handing her a glass of wine.

"Where are they? You rarely talk about your family."

Corking his eyebrow, "like you are a chatterbox about yours."

Raising her glass, "touché."

"My sister moved away to the city."

"Aah the city, I hear that is a land of great opportunity."

Smiling, "it really is. After our parents divorced and passed away guess she thought there was nothing here for her."

"Sorry."

"It's okay, I hear time heals all wounds." He tried smiling, "anyway no more sad stories, the chicken will be ready soon."

"A man who can cook, I will drink to that. I am a wreck in the kitchen."

"You cannot be that bad."

"I burnt the milk."

Smiling, "How is that even possible."

"I left it on the gas cooker stove and went to watch the news and forgot about it. I had to throw away the saucepan."

His voice as he laughed was deep and long.

"I take it back you can be that bad." He said. "It's a good thing then I am an excellent cook."

"Do you need me to do anything?"

"After that story? No, I will have dinner ready in about thirty minutes.

She saluted him with her glass and he just grinned back at her.

****

"This is delicious how did you learn how to cook?"

"My mother was a great cook and I used to spend a lot of time in the kitchen with her."

"You did not go out to play?"

"My mum was diagnosed with cancer when I was young so I pretty much hang out with her a lot of the time."

Smiling, "I am sure she loved it."

Grinning, "On more than one occasion she threatened to chase me out of the kitchen with a pan if I did not go out to play."

"Let me guess you did not budge."

"I can be relentless."

Snorting, "Bullheaded, stubborn."

Mock outrage, "Hey."

Laughing, "Did I hurt your feelings there tough guy."

Smiling sheepishly, "maybe."

Pointing at him with the drumstick she was eating, "You are a big softie on the inside."

Catching her eye, "Sometimes." Their eyes held and she felt a jolt run through her.

She felt alive and on edge at the same time.

Happy and scared.

She was the first to break eye contact.

"Well, it is a good thing at times." He was silent so long she thought he would not speak then he said, "Hope you left room for dessert. I have ice cream."

Stretching out, "I both love you and hate you right now."

When she realized what she said she sat up fast.

"Well, you know like love love not love." She said.

Way to go champ, Yan chimed in, how does your foot taste in your mouth.

Grinning at her, "I get it. I like love love not love you too."

Yan snorted, Yah right.

"I will get us that ice cream now." He said and he was gone.

He came back a few minutes later with a container of ice cream, a throw blanket, and two spoons.

Ooh now we are sharing, Yin with sing-song.

"Yeah sounds great," she was sure her voice squeaked.

They sat on the couch with ice cream between them.

By the time the movie ended, she had snuggled up to him, sharing the throw blanket, ice cream container on the table, asleep.

CHAPTER NINE

She shrieked and almost jumped out of her skin when someone knocked on her car window.

She had just pulled up to her cabin and was taking a second to rest when she heard the knock on her window.

She opened the driver seat window and said, "Hey Amy."

Amy just chewed her ball gum and looked at her for a moment before asking, "You coming in."

She sighed then said, "Yeah I am coming in."

She tapped the window seal twice, "Okay do not take too long, I am waiting." Then she was gone.

She slowly got out of her car and stretched trying to relieve the ache on her neck. Sleeping on the sofa all night was not comfortable even if she was cushioned by David.

David had still been asleep when she snuck out the front door.

Maybe it was cowardice of her, but she was not ready to talk to him yet. Or admit what was going on with them.

Maybe she was not ready for love.

She took her time closing the car door trying to avoid the inevitable.

Whether she was ready or not, Amy was going to pry the truth out of her.

They met when they were ten years old and since then it was Amy and Adelynn against the world. Amy and Adelynn had fought off bullies together in primary school, they had a crush on the same guy and they had gone to the same high school and college. When she went off to the police academy, Amy had stayed behind to build her career in fashion. They talked every day and shared everything.

Last year when Martin had died and her world had fallen apart she had gone A-wall on Amy who was busy trying to fix her.

She did not need fixing at that time.

What she had needed was a strong glass of scotch and some silence to climb out of the dark hole.

She had come to the cabin to get that and it had worked, guess it was time to face the music.

Pull on your big girl pants, Yin said.

Here goes nothing, she thought as she opened her front door.

"Do you have a corkscrew?" Amy asked as soon as Adelynn got in the door. The cabin main living area and kitchen was an open concept, with the only door opening into the living area.

Amy stopped rifling through the kitchen drawers and looked at her expectantly.

"The bottom right drawer," Adelynn answered as she closed the door behind her.

"Ha," Amy exclaimed victoriously holding up the corkscrew like a treasure she just uncovered. She opened the wine bottle currently standing on the kitchen island.

"Isn't it too early for wine?" Adelynn asked as she sat on one of the two stools at the kitchen island.

"Not with the conversation we are about to have," Amy answered as she poured some wine into the two glasses she had retrieved from the upper cabinets.

She tried one last Hail Mary, "I have to be at work in thirty minutes."

"No you do not," Amy said, a matter of fact. "Drink up," she added as she handed her one glass.

Adelynn took a healthy sip then placed the almost empty glass on the table, "What do you want to talk about?" No need pretending she did not know what Amy wanted.

Twirling the glass from the glass stem she asked lightly, "How have you been?"

Starting from the soft questions, "nowadays I am better. I even found a job and I am dating again."

She felt Amy's interest peeking but Amy did not ask the real question she wanted too. Instead, she asked, "How is that going."

"Good." She answered then she corrected, "great actually."

Adelynn smiled at Amy, "I am meeting new people and making new friends."

"That is great."

After that statement there was silence so profound, someone would have dropped a pin and its echoes would have been heard across the room.

Finally, Adelynn spoke up, "I know what you want to hear, I do not know how to say it."

Softly, "Try."

"I was suffocating in town I had to get away. I felt like I was in a loop that was going from one dark hole to the other."

Amy did not say anything which helped.

"Here it was just me and I had time to think and just heal."

"I was worried about you," Amy said, there was a catch in her voice, "I thought you might do something stupid and I would lose you."

Placing her hand lightly on Amy's, "I know."

She pulled her hand back and drunk the rest of the wine. "I thought about it, but I could not do it."

Amy looked at her so she explained, "Martin would hate me for it."

Amy smiled, "He was a good man."

"The best," Adelynn added.

David closed the cabin door behind him as he left. He had woken up alone and the shard of disappointment that he felt was profound. He felt something for Adelynn and he knew she felt it too. Otherwise, she would not have run away. So he had hopped into his car and drove here ready to make her confront what was going on between them. When he heard voices he thought he would just slip in say hae and slip back out. They did not hear him pull up or as he walked to the door. He was about to knock when he heard what they were talking about so he had stopped and listened. He felt bad for eavesdropping but he was about to confess his love for her, he needed some answers.

The answers he got were not what he expected, she was still in love with the Martin they were talking about. He did not have to hear her say it, it was in her voice. It was in the way she said his name.

So he got in his car and drove off.

He had nothing left to say.

Meanwhile back at the cabin, Amy was pouring more wine for Adelynn.

"Thanks," she said as Amy handed her a full glass.

"He is gone and he would want you to be happy," Amy said as soon as she sat down again.

"I know, he always wanted what was best for me." After a sip of wine, she said, "You know the first time we met I hated his guts. I thought he was too full of himself."

Amy laughed, "I remember. You did not have to pour wine on him though."

Laughing, "His shirt was too white it needed something to add some color."

"You remember how he reacted?"

They both burst out laughing.

Instead of getting mad like any other normal person would have, he pressed his finger to his wet chest and then licked it. Then he said, "It probably would have tasted better if I drunk it." The look on their faces when he said that was priceless. Both Adelynn, Amy and the whole bar had thought he would be mad. The silence that had followed her action was profound.

When everybody laughed, the tension broke.

As others were chatting away again he turned to her, "You owe me that date now."

She had just nodded yes.

That had been the beginning of the rest of their life.

She had thought it was the beginning of the rest of their life, she thought sadly taking a sip of wine now.

"Hey," Amy placed her hand lightly on hers.

"Sometimes I miss him so much."

"I know," Amy said.

They sat there for a long time, just contemplating and remembering.

Amy left three hours later for the city. As they hugged goodbye Amy told her, "Go tell him you love him."

"Who?" She played innocent.

Amy just laughed, got into the car and drove off.

Idiotic friends, Yan said.

For once, Adelynn agreed with her.

Yan had to add, unlike us, we are your best friends.

Now go tell the man you love him, Yin said.

Adelynn rolled her eyes.

CHAPTER TEN.

David was drinking in his favorite pub when Nathan found him deep in his fifth glass of whiskey.

Nathan sat down and ordered a glass of whiskey neat before he turned to look at David. "Gregory called me, he said you are hitting it pretty hard at eleven in the morning."

"There goes his tip," David said not looking up. He swirled the drink in his glass before taking another sip. The whiskey had stopped stinging on his second glass.

Nathan nodded his thanks to Gregory when he placed his glass of whiskey on the table.

Nathan asked, "Are we going to do this the easy way or the hard way?"

He answered, "I do not know what you are talking about."

Nathan sighed before he said, "The hard way it is." He took a sip before he asked, "What has got your panties all bunched up?"

David had to smile at that.

"I do not wear panties."

"You seem like you do today," Nathan said.

David glared at him.

Raising his hands up as if in surrender, "Sorry."

There was a moment of silence, "You okay buddy?" Nathan asked.

"Yah I just need to drink alone for a while."

"You know you can talk to me about anything."

"I know," David said, "Just not today."

"Okay," Nathan said. As he got up he asked, "You okay to get home? Do not drink and drive."

Rolling his eyes at him, "I am a cop I know."

"How will you get home?"

"Greg will let me crash here for a while." The perks of being a part owner of a bar was that you can drink and sleep it off in the back room.

"Okay," Nathan took out a couple of bills and placed them on the bar countertop. He turned to leave, "She is in love with someone else."

He had not meant to blurt it out, but he also did not want to be left alone to wallow in self-pity.

The one woman he had grown to love and thought he could spend the rest of his life with loved someone else. Just dandy.

"Who?" Nathan asked as he turned back and took his seat again.

"Adelynn she is in love with someone named Martin."

Nathan was silent so long he thought he was not going to speak again. After taking a sip of his whiskey, "Did she tell you that?"

"No, she did not have to."

"How do you figure that?"

"I heard her tell her friend."

"Adelynn does not strike me as the kind of girl who likes playing games with people's feelings."

"We were not really dating," David said and Nathan did not look surprised.

"You knew?" David asked.

"Highly suspected."

"When?"

"When all your answers matched those of Adelynn, it looked rehearsed."

Raising his glass to Nathan, "look at you going all Sherlock on me."

Nathan smiled and raised his glass at him.

"I watched you once when you did not even notice I was around, you love her."

There was no need denying the fact.

"Yah I do," he said, resigned. That is what hurt more. He loved her and she was never going to feel the same way about him.

"Have you told her?"

"Why? So she can reject me right to my face?"

"Maybe she won't reject you. I watched you two together, she does not look like someone who does not feel anything for you."

"Or maybe she will say she loves me back out of pity."

"Does she seem like that kind of person?"

After a moment David answered, "No she does not."

"What do you have to lose?"

When David was silent long, Nathan added, "What is a little pride in the face of a lifetime of happiness."

He felt a little bit of hope flare in his chest, "She might love me."

Nathan slapped one back on his back, "she might love you."

"I have to go and see her," he said as he stood up hastily.

He turned fast and the next thing he knew he was face down on the floor.

He groaned as he imagined tomorrows headline for the local newspaper; LOCAL HEAD OF POLICE FACE PLANTS AT LOCAL BAR AFTER GETTING SHIT FACED DRUNK.

The press was going to have a field day with this. In a town where nothing happened, this was headline worthy.

He groaned again as he heard Nathan laughing in the background.

"Not funny buddy," he said.

Nathan said still laughing, "From where I am seated it is pretty funny."

*****

Lisa should have been an army commander, Adelynn thought as she sat across from the woman, trying to look like she was not intimidated.

When she had gone to look for David, he was not in his house. She had assumed he was probably at his friend.

She knew it was a mistake the moment she came looking for him here.

She knew it was a mistake the moment she thought about it.

She had thought Nathan would be home so she would get in and out in less than a minute. She had been wrong, so wrong.

As soon as Lisa opened the door she welcomed her like she had been expecting her.

"Come in, come in," Lisa said as soon as the door opened. Then she half dragged her, half welcomed her in.

"Let me get you some tea." Her protests were ignored as Lisa poured her a cup from the thermos that was already on the table.

"I just came to ask if David was here."

Waving her hand like it was not consequential, "The menfolk are out, and it is just me and you."

Those words actually sent tremors of fear down her spine.

"I thought we could talk."

Damn, that woman is scary, Yin coined in.

Girl you in trouble, Yan concurred.

Clearing her throat, "What can we talk about?"

Pushing her untouched cup of tea towards her Lisa said, "About David of course."

The sip of hot tea she had taken almost choked her, being choked by hot tea was not her idea of fun.

Get a grip of yourself woman, Yan said.

She is like a shark, she can sense fear, Yin added.

Adelynn cleared her throat and asked, "Yes, David. He is a good guy."

"Mmh he is." She did not add anything.

"He helps old women crossroads and he is a good officer, handsome too," now she was rambling. Lisa had this ability to look at you, not in a hostile way, but in a manner that made you just a tiny bit uncomfortable.

As she had said earlier, the woman should have been a commander in the army.

Back off, woman, you are backing yourself into a corner, Yin echoed in her mind.

Shut up, Yan concurred.

So she shut up and looked at the tea. Staring at Lisa felt like looking at a very bright flame.

"Do you love David?" Lisa asked Adelynn.

Damn the woman does not beat about the bush, Yin said.

Adelynn agreed.

It was time to grow a backbone and stop behaving like a school girl.

She looked Lisa directly in the eyes, "I think that is something I have to talk to him about."

Instead of being mad like Adelynn expected, Lisa smiled and said, "I like you."

With her voice full of doubt, "Thanks?"

"David is not here, but you can catch up with him in his house in the evening. Right now he is kind of unavailable."

Her interest peeked and her heart beat increased, "is he okay?"

Lisa smiled again, "He is fine, and they just went fishing with my husband Nathan."

Fishing my ass, Yan said.

Mind your language, Yin admonished Yan.

You also know she is lying, Yan said again.

Yin agreed grudgingly, Yah those men are not out fishing.

Adelynn also agreed with Yin and Yan but she smiled through her doubt and said, "Thanks for the tea."

Then she got up and Lisa got up with her. They walked to the door and Lisa opened the door for her.

Just as she was turning to leave Lisa called out, "Adelynn," when she turned back Lisa added, "We are going to be great friends." Then she closed the door on Adelynn's face.

Adelynn snorted then said as she left, "I highly doubt it."

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

Life never gives you what you want when you expect it too.

She had come here to heal and take some time to find herself again instead she had fallen in love. It was not planned for.

A month ago if you told her she would be pacing her floor worried about a guy, she would probably have shot you in the face.

Look there our girl is all grown up, Yan whispered to Yin.

She is so much better now, Yin whispered back.

You know I can hear you guys even if you whisper because you are in my head, Adelynn told them.

Pssst, propaganda, Yan protested.

It is not propaganda if it is true, Adelynn tried to reason with her.

It was in vain.

Propaganda, Yin backed Yan up.

Adelynn just rolled her eyes.

Instead of pacing around why don't you go out looking for him? Yan asked.

I do not know where to find him and Nathan and Lisa won't tell me, Adelynn said.

Her conversation with Nathan on the phone after she left his house had gone as well as her visit with Lisa.

"Hello, Adelynn," he answered as soon as he picked up the call. She had never given him her number and she did not want to get into how he got her number at the moment.

"Hey Nathan, I am looking for David."

"We are out fishing."

"Can I talk to him please?"

"The network is spotty."

"I am talking to you right now with the same network."

Her logic went right over him. Either he heard her and ignored her correct assessment or he did not hear her.

"Yah you are. How have you been?" She heard some noise in the background. He was definitely not fishing unless they carried a whole bunch of rowdy people with them out to fish.

"I have been fine thank you." She answered a bit frustrated.

"That is good," something crashed in the background, "I have to go now. I will tell David you called and that you are looking for him." He then disconnected the call.

That was the last time she spoke to either of them and that was hours ago. Now darkness was already seeping in and she was in her cabin pacing and talking to the voices in her head. Just dandy.

He could be at the bottom of the river somewhere, Yin chimed in helpfully.

Or hacked up in a suitcase, Yan added.

The bad thing about being a cop, your imaginary friends have a nasty imagination.

Of course, he is not at the bottom of the river or in a suitcase, Adelynn told them.

There was a knock at the door and she ran to open the door, maybe it was David. Before she turned the lock Yin chimed in, Easy girl it might be the guy who put David at the bottom of the river here for you.

She rolled her eyes at them but Yin was right she had to check who was knocking first.

She peered through the side window and her heart almost stopped when she saw David standing there. He looked so handsome and a little rough around the edges. It was good to know that she was not the only one who had had a rough day.

He noticed her watching and turned to look at her.

Their eyes met and it was electrifying. His brown eyes held so much love and warmth in them she felt like she was burning. It was a slow burn that started at the bottom of her legs and spread all through her.

Do not just stand there open the door girl, Yan said.

"Ooh," she exclaimed as she let the curtain fall. She half ran, half walked to the door.

Be cool, Yin said.

She tried to compose herself. She adjusted her sweat pant and threw on a sweater over her vest. She had practiced what she wanted to say all day. She was ready for this. She was going to tell him what she felt for him if he felt the same thing that was fine, if not then they would be friends.

Or she could just move away if it became too painful to see him with another girl.

She felt confident when she opened the door.

All that confidence went out the side window as soon as she opened the door and set eyes on him. "Hae," she said.

*****

David had woken up about two hours ago with a fire in his belly and a nasty headache. He only had one agenda. To get to Adelynn and tell her how he felt.

Make that two agendas, get rid of a pounding headache and then find Adelynn.

When he had walked into the bar from the back room Nathan was still waiting for him there.

"Hey, sleepy head." Nathan greeted him, David chose to ignore him.

"I need water and some aspirin please." He told Greg.

Greg placed some in front of him before going to cater to other clients. He shut off what his friend was saying as he took his aspirin tablet then washed it down with some of the water.

When he was done he placed the glass on the bar counter and walked away. He was close to the front door when he heard Nathan shout, "Take a shower first before you go see her."

David replied by raising his third finger at him and kept going.

"I love you too buddy," Nathan said and everyone who was in the bar burst out laughing.

Even though he did not like his friend at the moment, Nathan was right. He needed a bath first. There was no way he was showing up at Adelynn's place reeking of whiskey.

So he took a detour to his place, took a quick shower, had a thirty-minute nap then he had walked here. He needed a few minutes to think about what he was going to say and clear his head.

By the time he knocked on her cabin door he was sure about what he wanted to say to her.

When she opened the door the first thought that he had was, God she is pretty.

She looked so adorable in her sweatpants and sweater. All he wanted was to scope her into his arms and love her. Protect her and show her that she was his now.

Down boy, he told himself. Not yet, do not scare her away.

"Hae," she said.

"Hae." He replied. They just stood there lost in each other's eyes.

"Can I come in?" He asked, pointing in.

"Yah of course," She stood aside to let him in.

When he was inside he turned to look as she closed the door behind her and leaned on it.

"How have you been?" He asked rocking slightly on the balls of his feet.

"Good and you?" She answered.

He nodded, "good too."

Then there was some silence as they both wondered what to say.

"I looked for you today," she said. Smiling, "I was told you were out fishing."

He smiled back, "Fishing. No, I did not go fishing today."

She said, "I thought so too." Shrugging she added, "Where did you go?"

"I was drinking."

Arching an eyebrow, "You have a drinking problem?"

He walked slowly towards her, trying not to spook her, "No I was thinking about a girl."

Almost breathlessly she asked, "A girl?"

He nodded, "This girl that I like," he paused, "no not like, a girl I love and I thought she loved someone else."

"Mmh did you ask her how she felt?" He was so close she could almost feel his heat.

He shook his head no, "I overheard one conversation. Then I thought what if I am wrong."

"You came over this morning." She said it as a statement, not a question.

He nodded yes.

"Martin is my ex-fiancé. He died a day before our wedding. I was devastated for a long time, I came here to heal."

He brushed one finger across her cheek and a tremor ran down her spine. But she did not stop talking, she could not stop talking. If they were going to have a chance he needed to know everything.

"We were cops together." She added.

"He must have been a good cop." He said simply.

The heat he was emitting felt like it was enveloping her. She felt safe in his presence.

She nodded yes, "The best. He taught me everything I know thou at first I did not want to admit that he knew more than I did."

He smiled, "You are stubborn."

She smiled back, "I choose to see it as relentless."

He just laughed.

"We made a great team and when he was gone I fell apart. I did some things I am not proud of. That was when I realized I could not stay there, I might have hurt someone or myself. I just needed to get away." She looked at him directly in the eyes, "I am not looking to replace him."

She did not realize that a tear had slipped out until he wiped it away gently, "I do not want to replace him."

She nodded as she played with his shirt collar, "Good because I also realized there is a boy I love."

He looked her directly in her eyes, his were so full of love, "You sure?"

She nodded yes and pulled him closer, "I have never been surer of anything in my life."

His eyes turned from brown to almost dark with passion and she knew he wanted to kiss her.

He moved his head closer to hers, "I really want to kiss you, to taste your lips, feel them move under mine."

"If you do not kiss me now I might have to shoot you," she countered. His lips looked so good and she really needed a taste. She felt as if she did not get to taste his lips she would spontaneously combust into flames. That was how much she needed him.

He chuckled, "Bossy woman."

"Just shut up and kiss me."

"Yes, ma'am." He said, then he did just that. He kissed her like his life depended on it. He poured everything he felt for her in that kiss. He tasted her lips, then he devoured them. She was his and he was never letting her go. Ever.

He broke the kiss for a moment and whispered, "I love you."

Her head leaning on his, "I love you too."

EPILOGUE.

LATER THAT NIGHT.

They had spent the rest of half of the evening talking and kissing.

It was less talking and more kissing but she was not complaining.

They were busy arguing over their best movies when the phone rang. Most of their arguments ended with a kiss and this was headed there when it was interrupted by the call.

David did not break eye contact when he received the call.

"Go away," he said as soon as he answered the call.

Adelynn chuckled when she realized that it must be Nathan calling.

Nathan said something and David answered, "No chance in hell."

Adelynn just smiled.

Nathan said something else and David answered, "Just a moment."

He removed the phone from his ears and placed it on his chest to muffle the earpiece.

"He says that we have been invited over for dinner and if we do not go he is going to come over with Lisa."

Adelynn just smiled again, someone might say her smiling every time was goofy but she was happy.

"Tell them we will go for an hour. I am not done with you yet."

He laughed and kissed her, "I like what you are thinking."

He answered the phone again, "We will come but you owe me." Then he disconnected the call and dragged her in for another kiss.

Right before he kissed her she asked, "How does he owe you?"

"I do not care." He answered then he kissed her and she let him because she also did not care at the moment.

It was thirty minutes later when they came back up for air and to say she was hot and bothered was an understatement.

"Do we really have to go?" She asked between kisses.

He sighed "Yah we do if we do not Lisa will come for us."

She fake shuddered, "we do not want that, that woman should have to lead the army."

"I keep saying that." He agreed with her. "Just one last kiss."

"Yeah one last kiss," she agreed.

They made it to Lisa and Nathan's house an hour later.

"Hey come in," Lisa opened the door smiling. David and Adelynn looked at each other and smiled.

"Aaw how sweet," Lisa said as she clapped her hands in front of her.

They were ushered to the backyard where they had dinner under the stars on the picnic table. During the dinner, Adelynn was pleasantly surprised that she liked Lisa.

Even though she was a drill sergeant, it was obvious she protected those she cared about. They delighted her with embarrassing stories about David when he was young. She found them to be adorable.

"You should not be laughing, you are supposed to be on my corner." David leaned forward and whispered to her.

She placed her hand on his check, "Oh honey I love you but I will definitely laugh."

His eyes darkened, "I will get you for that."

She just smiled and kissed him lightly, "mmh."

When they finished dinner they gathered around the fire pit with a beer each. She was about to seat on one of the blocks when he pulled her to his lap. She cuddled up to him and enjoyed the warmth.

She felt something poke her back and asked, "Are you carrying your service weapon or are you just happy to see me."

He smiled and cocked his eyebrow, "What do you think?"

She smiled at him, "I think that I cannot wait to find out."

"You two get a room," Nathan who had gone back to the house to get a couple more beers said when he came back.

"Ignore him, he is crazy," David said and kissed her. She felt something like a towel hit her back and turned back to look at a laughing Nathan and Lisa.

"You hit my woman," David said with mock outrage. He lifted her and placed her on the block like she weighed nothing. He then kissed her lightly, "I will be right back."

Then he was soon after Nathan, they were running and laughing around tackling each other.

"Sometimes they behave like kids," Lisa said when she turned to look at Adelynn.

Adelynn just laughed at that.

Raising her beer at Adelynn Lisa said, "Friends?"

Adelynn raised her beer at Lisa, "Good friends."

OTHER BOOKS AVAILABLE HERE ON SMASHWORDS BY LYNN ACHIENG.

MAKE SURE TO CHECK THEM OUT, MOST OF THEM ARE ALSO FREE.

SPIRAL OF CRAZY.
PROLOGUE

You throw a girl out of the window once; you end up in a mental hospital.

It was not like it was even that high up; it was just from the first floor window.

Some people were just sissy's, Roxy thought as she paced the room she had been assigned at Mathare Mental Hospital.

Five years she had worked her ass off to be among the best writers of her time and here she was in a mental institution, labeled crazy.

There was no difference between her and the man who walked around naked in the streets. One's got to laugh at the irony of the situation.

"This will be good for you," her mother had said just an hour ago. "Take some time to be yourself again, find yourself again."

She got where her mother came from she just did not appreciate it. She could just imagine the news headlines, "Famous Author Roxy Moraa Gone Crazy" "Author Roxy in The Luni Bin".

She could also imagine the news interviews, "So did you think she could snap like this someday?" Some faceless journalist would ask.

The "friend" being interviewed would reply, "Of course just look at chapter eight of her last book, the way she had Eva running around with a knife. It is just a spiral of crazy." Except that 'friend' had known her about a whole thirty minutes.

Her actual friend Sabrina would be throwing things at the television; for despite her sweet disposition she was a fire cracker.

But who would care if the friend talking on television was an actual friend as long as she made the headlines.

"Friends knew that Roxy would one day snap."

Yeah right.

It would not matter that the woman she had thrown out the window was her boyfriend's latest squeeze.

Or that she found them banging on her bed, going at it like two wild rabbits.

Maybe she should have let the woman dress before going all Rambo on her ass. Those cardio kickboxing lessons had worked, Rafe her ex boyfriend as per this morning, had to call the cops.

Like he had not done enough damage already by breaking her trust; he should have let her pound out her frustration on his bimbo.

Too bad they had not gotten there before she threw him out of the window too. She was about to follow the bimbo over to finish what she had started when two cops restrained her.

Too say the truth she had not really loved Rafe, it was just the combination of the stress of working so hard on her latest book trying to make it a masterpiece that had gotten to her.

Seeing them together, she had just snapped.

It was like a dam had broken free and rage had flown out. Sweeping.

Maybe just maybe, all she needed was a break.

A new start.

She needed take the year in the Luni bin to formulate a new plan.

Seating down with a sigh on the bed with white sheets; she accepted her fate.

Or maybe this was not a break; she had finally just gone crazy.

Who knew?

CHAPTER ONE

Blake loved his routine.

Working out, going to work, eating and sleeping at the same time every day.

As his feet pounded down the path he thought of a time when he let passion rule his life.

When he had lived for his desires before he had crashed and burned.

Now his life was predictable and he loved knowing exactly what he was going to do tomorrow those facts filled him with contentment and satisfaction.

His therapist had said, "develop a routine, it will give you structure, this will help your life get back on track."

He had taken those words literally.

He came to a stop right outside his front door.

The running each morning helped him, especially on those nights he had nightmares and he could almost hear Mary's voice.

Shaking himself out of it he picked up his newspaper on his way in. Many people now loved reading news from tablets or their phones; he just loved the smell of the newspaper. The smell reminded him of his daddy.

As soon as he opened the door his cat Mel ran to the door like he missed him. He knew better Mel was probably just hungry or wanted to slip out between his legs. He was not normally a cat person but when he bought the house, it came with the cat. He did not have the heart to throw him out and the company was not bad.

Being that Mel had been on his own so long he would sneak into the neighbors houses for food even if Blake fed him. The neighbors complained and it had to stop so he started locking him in the house. For the two days sleep was ruined for him as Mel went ahead to rip and knock everything over.

On the third day Blake locked him in the bathroom and that was when they came to an understanding.

As much of an understanding as a cat and man can get.

Mel makes noise, Mel sleeps in the bathroom.

Simple.

He picked up the phone to call his friend Nathan as he got the cat food from the top shelf.

"Hey lazybones, wake up," he said as soon as he heard a grunt from the other end of the line.

That was met with more grunting and groaning.

"Waky waky the sun is up."

"Go fuck yourself," was the only answer he got to which he burst out laughing. Judging from the groan on the other end of the line or the look Mel gave him, his merriment was not appreciated.

"For your day to be right you have to start it happy," the voice of his therapist rang out again and he pushed it down. He had faked a lot of happiness until now, but he was actually enjoying waking Nathan up.

"Hey language Mel is listening," currently Mel was chewing down on his food and would not give a damn if they swore all day.

"You and that damn cat of yours," Nathan said still grumpy.

"He loves me," to which Mel released a sigh that sounded so much like yah right. "Anyway get your butt up today we are going hiking remember."

With a sigh of realization that he was never going to get back to sleep, "You know I could just disconnect this call and go back to bed."

"I have the coffee ready."

Suddenly chipper, "Next time lead with that, I'll be there in five minutes." Then he was gone.

Placing the phone down with a chuckle, "Man he was easy."

Exactly five minutes later Nathan burst in through the back door chanting coffee coffee coffee.

Standing next to the kitchen island he watched his friend assault his coffee maker, "Good morning to you too."

"Asshole," was the only answer he got as he filled his cup up.

"Now that is so much better," Nathan said after finishing up the whole cup in three gulps.

"You swear too much for a cop," Blake replied, "and does the coffee not burn you? That thing was hot."

Raising one finger, "first I swear the right amount for a cop to put up the type of crap I put up with in a day." Pausing, "Second, I have developed a tolerance for hot coffee."

Laughing, "So what has put you in an extra grumpy mood this morning?"

Filling his cup again he took a seat on the stool next to where Blake was standing.

"One word, Mrs. Iffy."

Chuckling, "technically that is two words," to which he got a murderous glare. "Okay what did she do this time?"

"She took a frying pan to Mr. Iffy for not putting the toilet seat down. When I got there she was running after him around the coffee table shouting about air bacteria and viruses."

By the time he was done Blake was bent over laughing so hard. This was why he woke up Nathan in the morning there was always a funny story.

Chuckling Nathan added, "One day those two will end up killing each other, not from one hitting the other but from all the running around they do. They are eighty they should be seated somewhere knitting and chewing tobacco."

Wiping a tear, "That would be the day."

"Speaking of which I hear they have a niece coming to town this weekend," Nathan said trying to look nonchalant, "Maybe you two will hit it off."

He had not dated since Mary passed away five years ago and he could not blame his friend for trying to help but he was not ready. He still needed more time.

The easy mood lost, "Yah maybe," he moved to the sink.

"Man it has been five years, it's time to move on and maybe a stranger here for the holidays is just what you need."

Jaw tightening he placed the cup down with more force than necessary, "Not interested." For a minute or two there was silence and tension.

Trying to lighten the mood Blake turned around, "Maybe she is as crazy as her aunt and uncle."

Chuckling, "Maybe even crazier."

To that they burst out laughing.

Easy mood restored.

What they did not count on thou was Nathan being right.

FOREVER US
PROLOGUE

As the DJ cranked the music up to hip-hop, Sasha Aludbe shook her ass even though her dancing and music were not even close to being in sync. It was so long since she had felt this freedom, so long before she'll feel it again. Sasha felt her heart beat steadily to Wiz Khalifa's work hard, play hard.

She felt the sweat trickle down the open back of her black dress. The effects of the black ice she had downed so far were seeping through her blood to her system into her brain. She felt it all, and it was just exhilarating, for the first time in four months she was free.

Time to change the steady twist of her ass into slow adulations of her waist as the DJ played Eminem's No love. Ok, the song was not danceable, but she did not care. Each word, each beat resounded in her brain. She felt a man's hand around her waist just as the DJ picked up the beat. So she as she picked up the steady shaking of her ass on his groin.

She did not care who he was she was here to have fun. Taking a deep breath after the song came to an end she pulled away sweating and breathless. He tried to talk to her, but she ignored him and made her way back to her table. When she got back, she pulled the first long sip of her drink before smiling to her cousin and partner in crime this evening.

"You were having fun," Her cousin said with a knowing smile.

She looked at her cousin with appreciation then answered, "Yeah I was. It was incredible and long overdue."

Rolling her eyes," to think I had to drag you out of bed."

"Ok ok I get it thanks, you my dear are the best cousin ever," she said throwing her hands around her cousin's shoulders.

"And you my dear are sweaty and smelly," she responded trying to disengage herself from the hug.

"Oh no you don't," holding on tighter, "this is fun you are smelling take it in. Breathe deep."

She laughed at the expression of horror on her cousin's face as Sasha removed her hands from around her shoulder.

"Why aren't you out there shaking your assets? You look great in that blue dress by the way."

Sasha asked her.

Flipping her hair dramatically, "Ooh stop it."

"Show off," she said fake punching her cousin on the shoulder.

Their bantering slowly died off as they resumed drinking in silence.

"How are you holding up?" her cousin finally asked her. The last four months had been rough what with her stepdad going to prison, children picking on her sister, a mob trying to burn down her mother's house until she had to take care of her kid sister. Cold shivers ran down her body just thinking about it.

Giving her a small smile that she hoped like hell her cousin bought, "Am fine, I'll always be fine."

As if seeing through her act she just nodded, "If you need anything, anything at all just call me."

She tried to hold back tears threatening to flow, "Thanks." She would not cry. She had cried enough for a lifetime.

Laughing through a sniffle that had escaped she raised her bottle in cheers, "To a better end of the year."

Her cousin raised her bottle and was about to say something when she remained frozen. Her eyes were wide with shock as if she had seen a ghost.

Before she could turn back to look, Sasha heard the voice she thought she would never hear ever again, "Hello princess."

It seemed like the year just kept serving her shit.

Serving her even the dead.

DADDY CRUSH.
CHAPTER THREE

Present day.

When you find yourself peeping into a man's house from the bush is when you start questioning all your life choices.

"If you want I can just come down there and steal that baby for you," Roxy said and Sabrina knew for her she actually could.

"No thanks just let me handle this in a civilized way. I will just go there and explain to him that I am the relative of that baby and then he will hand him over and we shall walk away," it felt like a cliché talking about civilization while she was a grown ass woman peeping at his house from behind the bush.

"He could be an axe welding murder or just a baby hogging madman," trust her friend to have an over active imagination.

Rolling her eyes even thou she was sure her friend could not see her, "Yes all those are real possibilities."

"Am serious thou if I do not hear from you in the next thirty minutes am coming down there."

"I can live with that," she said but Sabrina still did not hang up, talking to her friend calmed her down.

"Rose did a lot of stupid things but this is by far the stupidest thing she ever did," Roxy added and she did not disagree with her.

Her parents had named her young sister Rose and they had adored her and spoilt her rotten. They had been trying to get a second baby for a while that when she finally came there was celebration. Then when they died it was just the two of them and she kind of picked up from where they left off. By then she was only seventeen and had to raise a ten year old child. When the social services came she pretended she was eighteen so that they would not take her sister away from her. Her parents had been cleaver enough to weasel some cash away for them. Thou it was not much but plus the odd jobs she could get they managed just fine. Rose had never lacked for anything; Sabrina had made damn sure of that.

Sometimes she thought that she and her parents were actually responsible for the way Rose ended up. Rose had done so much shit in her life sometimes even disappearing for days on end but she always knew Sabrina would be there for her. So when she had called this time she thought it was just normal sister act until the next day when she called again. To tell her that she was in labor and heading to the hospital to give birth. Would she please meet her there?

She had taken the first bus to the city. Only she was still too late to save her baby sister this time.

Guilt ate at her, maybe if she had arrived sooner, looked for her more she would not be dead.

Tears she did not know were falling slipped down her cheeks," I still can't believe she is gone," they took a moment just to reflect. Taking a deep breath, "Yet this is not the time to be sad I have a little baby waiting for me to rescue her."

Roxy, "Go get them tiger, and remember I am here for you."

As she disconnected the call she was grateful she had a friend like Roxy by her side. She did not know what she would have done without her in the last ten years.

Taking a deep breath she turned to face the house, "well here goes nothing."

*******

Leo was a reasonable and responsible man, he did his duties when he was a kid and when he was in the navy he always had his fellow sailors back. Out there alone where the threat of attack or being high jacked was a real possibility; they always had to be ready. He could work two days straight with only coffee as a backup. Hell he ran five miles daily no problem.

Yet the baby that had been crying continuous for the last two hours put him on edge. Several times he wanted to just pick her up and place her outside. Or drop her off at the nearest hospital. Or better yet just call the policemen and tell them the truth that he had technically kidnapped a baby from the hospital. All those were better options than listening to baby Bella cry over and over again for no reason. Every time he thought about it all he saw were the mother's desperate eyes so he continued to rock her as he paced around.

It was as if she knew that her mama was dead. As if she knew that he did not have a clue about what he was doing. The lady at the store had shown him how to change diapers and mix her food when he went to pick up supplies. He thought he had done it right, making sure the milk was at the right temperature before feeding her.

Suddenly she burped and just like that stopped crying and fell asleep.

Peace at last, he thought with a sigh. Slowly he placed her on his bed where he had shoved chairs around to keep her from rolling off. If she was going to live here he had to get her a crib soon

After placing her very gently on the bed afraid sudden movements would wake her up, he just sat by the bedside looking at her. Poor baby, she had a tough life ahead of her, he thought. He just hoped the demons of the mama's past would not come to haunt her in future.

He would protect her the best way he could, he thought as he stood up and started to straighten up. It was amazing how quickly a house could get dirty with a baby in it. They had only been around two hours and it was like everything was dirty. He liked his house clean, he was not OCD by any chance, but the Navy had just taught him that everything had its place. He loved everything being in its rightful place.

He was cleaning up the kitchen sink when the doorbell rung. Afraid it would wake up Bella after it had taken him hours to put her to sleep he rushed to answer.

A short, curvaceous woman holding two paper bags stood by the door. The first thing he noted about her was that she looked harassed.

Before he could ask her if he could help her she had shouldered her way in.

"Well hope you are hungry, I make a mean pancake," she said as she proceeded to the kitchen as if she owned the place. He was still standing there gapping after her when he had pans move around in the kitchen.

Well it seemed today was the day strange people walked into his life, he thought as he closed the door and followed her to the kitchen.

This ought to be interesting.

BLOOM

SNEEK PEEK

JERKINS

This morning could not come any earlier for him; he had felt restless all night only falling asleep for about two hours before he bolted up awake again. Almost losing Linda had made him realize just how stupid he had been in keeping up with a sham of engagement. Actually he had realized it before and broken it off and was looking for a way to apologize to Linda when he got the phone call.

He could not forget that moment it was as if his heart dropped to his shoes when he had the news and all the way to the hospital he was chanting, please let her be okay.

God had answered his prayers and he was not going to lose her again, not ever even if he had to tie her to his side. That was why not spending the night by her side did not bode well with him but he needed to come up with a strategy on how to tell her how he felt. After screwing up a simple I love you was not going to cut it, he had to do it big and convince her to take a chance on him.

His first alarm rang and he was off the bed, first visiting hours were at eight and if he hurried he would be there thirty minutes early. Maybe he could charm the nurses with his celebrity status to let him see her before her family got there. What he had to do was best done in private.

For some unknown reason he was not surprised to meet Ken by the elevators, they were all in the same hotel. They did not speak just nodded at each other as they got into the elevator and pressed the ground button. They kept the same silence all the way to the hospital and Ken even stopped with him when he purchased some flowers.

He appreciated the effort he was making to accommodate him even if they did not voice it.

When they got to the hospital door he turned to Ken, "Buy me five minutes." He did not know if it would work but he had to give sneaking in a shot.

"Five minutes," Ken said as he stalked off to go charm the nurse on duty.

He even managed to sneak past the desk guard who was busy dozing off and he made it to the room Linda was assigned. As he opened the door he smiled, he felt good about this, and this was the beginning of their love story. The door swung open and the first thing he noticed was that the bed was empty.

No, this could not be happening. He closed the door again to recheck the room number; yeah he had the correct room. He heard a whimper that seemed like a hurt dog nearby as a sob wrenched from deep within, the only reason the room would be empty...

No, no, he could not finish that thought, she was fine. She had to be fine, they had forever together.

He did not even hear the footsteps coming up behind him as Ken approached saying, "Hey buddy your five minutes are up.

He turned around, he was sure he looked like someone shell shocked.

"Empty," he whispered hoarsely then blankness just embraced him and he was out.

CURSED

SNEEK PEEK

"Ever heard of a phone you damnass," she asked climbing from the bed, she did not even try to be graceful about it. She did not wait for an answer thou just left him seated there and stomped into the bathroom which was not far away. She lived in a studio apartment so she had a single room that represented the living room, bedroom and kitchen with a separate bathroom. It was terrifying how many times she had woke up with a saucepan in bed with her.

When she was done, she flushed the toilet, splashed some water on her face and emerged from the bathroom to find Hunter still seated calmly waiting for her.

"You lost your phone remember?" He said as if she had not left the room mid conversation.

"Yah I do," she sat with her legs crisscrossed on the bed and hugged a pillow. She needed reinforcement from him and the pillow would have to do for now. "What do you want now?"

"I came bearing gifts," he said holding out roses, "sorry for the way I behaved earlier."

"Seriously look around, do I seem like the kind of girl who is into roses?"

Shrugging, "No but the florist did mention that red roses symbolize passion and I wanted you to have them."

No one ever thought to buy her roses.

She was a tomboy but one's in a while she liked the pretty smell of flowers. Not that she was going to let him know that.

She laughed lightly, "Do you think maybe he was just trying to make a sale and meet his quota of the day?"

"Pretend all you want, I know you love roses," he said with a smug smile that made her want to punch him.

Stretching out her hands, "Okay gimme," burying her face in them she enjoyed the scent for a minute of two. "They do smell really good."

When she looked up at him he seemed to be adjusting himself on the seat.

Smiling up at him, "Things getting a bit tight for you there buddy."

He smiled, you know the smile a lion gives a deer before they pounce on them, "You have no idea." It was now her turn to adjust herself.

"About earlier today I am sorry, things got too intense in the car and it brought up a lot of buried feelings and I did not handle it well."

Curious, "Like what kind of feelings?"

"You know normal, love, lust and this pure blinding passion."

Looking down at the roses, "you do not even know me that well how can you say love?"

He stood up and came and sat beside her on the bed. Taking her hands into his, "that is where you are wrong, I know you, all of you."

Looking at him, "That is why you are wrong, I am not her whoever you think I am, I am not her. Somehow you are looking for me to fill this gap of someone I did not even know."

Read more.......

