

Author's Remarks

If you are not a person of romantic dash, please don't read this story. You will be bored to death with it. But if you are a dreamer, arrange yourself comfortably in a chair, take a cup of tea and enjoy reading. I am sure you will be delighted with this story.

All the personages of the story are made up. They have nothing to do with the prominent historical figures of the epoch. They are just the fruit of my imagination created to make you now laugh then perhaps cry. Anyway, I wish you only positive emotions.

Good luck!

Chapter 1

It was early in the morning that Ingrid made up her mind to drop in at her friend's place for a cup of tea. She took her car, a luxury black Nissan Teana bought three months ago, the car of her dream, and drove proudly through the city streets enjoying speed and good music. She kept the speed of 35 mph, the wind was blowing into her face combing her dark hair at leisure, the trees and the houses were dashing nearby and melting far behind the morning mist.

As it was early and she chose the remotest route from the downtown, the traffic was not yet heavy and the morning air was refreshing, clean and cool.

The car lowered the speed, gently crawled on the winding road leading upwards to the foot of the house, the tires kicked the gravel with a squeeze and the sound of the engine died away. Ingrid was right on the spot. She left her car in the shade near some other one, came up to the gate and pushed on the doorbell button. There came the barking of a dog. In a minute Ingrid was let in by Jessica whose cozy house created some amiable and relaxing atmosphere.

Jessica and Ingrid came to the kitchen talking. On the table Ingrid found a chocolate cake and biscuits with tea waiting for her.

Ingrid considered Jessica to be her friend. They were partners and shared the business working together on a project. Ingrid brought the papers she'd been working on for Jessica to sign.

-So you have finished everything?

-Yes, everything is ready and all we need is your signature.

-All right, said Jessica, looked through the document and signed it.

-And now, she said, - you must try the cake. This is the recipe I found in a book. Do you like it?

\- I like it a lot, replied Ingrid, chewing the cake and smiling at her. –Oh, it's wonderful. Truly tasty.

\- Is it? Well, I'm glad you like it. Actually I don't fancy cooking.

-Oh, don't say so.

A large black cat touched Jessica's arm with its paw and looked right into her eyes with its demanding green eyes. It was sitting on the couch near Jessica and observing the eatables on the table.

-Oh, no Molly. You've eaten a good deal today. Look at you. You'll put on weight.

-Kittens are like humans, said Ingrid. They always need attention and understanding.

-Oh, yes, agreed Jessica. –By the way, how are things with Sam, does he show you his attention as he used to?

-Certainly, Ingrid brightened and gave way to daydreaming. - He gives me flowers, perfumes, kisses. We spend much time together. Oh, and also money. She laughed a little. –Yet, sometimes he may be too busy to pay me a visit or take me out. And sometimes, he seems to be rather distant in his thoughts and emotionally disconneted.

-Oh, don't worry. The thing is that he loves you. Everything else doesn't matter.

-Well, you must be right. Maybe the problem is in me. I may be nagging and irritable when I' m tired. That's the point.

-Yes, sometimes we hurt the dearest people unwillingly and regret about it. But you are intelligent and reserved. You've always considered the other people's thoughts and feelings.

-Right you are. Sometimes I'm apt to forget about my own troubles because of the problems of the others I try to help to solve... Oh, dear, Ingrid jumped up to her feet. –Its half past eight already. I must be off.

She grabbed her jacket and purse.

-Thank you for the tea. I had a pleasant time with you.

-You are always welcome, Jessica smiled at her again.

Ingrid looked into the window... and a took deep breath of astonishment, for there was only vacant space on the place where she had put her car not long ago.

-Oh my God! - cried Ingrid, her face growing chalk-white.

-What?

Jessica ran to the window. –What happened?

-Nothing, said Ingrid, trying to be calm. –Except that my car is missing.

Chapter 2

When she ran out into the yard Ingrid could hardly believe her eyes. There were just some faint traces of the tires in the thick mud near the tree and the grass was tramped. Nothing suggested that some ten minutes ago the car was there.

Ingrid buried her hands in her hair and wrinkled her forehead in despair.

-No, I am shocked. I'm terrified. How could it have happened that I didn't notice!

-You couldn't have, probably, - supposed Jessica.

Ingrid dashed from side to side.

-Come on, sit down, we'll do something.

-I can't sit down, I can't sit down, she shouted.

-Lets call the police, - Jessica suggested.

They returned to the house, Ingrid took up the receiver and dialed the number. -My car is missing. It is stolen, -she said. They needed the license plate number and the color of the car. She gave him all information they requested. They seemed promising to help.

In a minute Ingrid was sitting on the bench near the house, the thoughts dashing like lightning in her head. Jessica was beside her. She tried to calm her down.

You shouldn't worry, -Jessica said. The police will easily find your car, you'll se.

-I don't believe it, -murmured Ingrid.

Jessica placed her arm round Ingrid's shoulders to console her.

-Look, you just think and...Her talk was interrupted by the telephone call. Jessica rose, found her cell phone in the bag and pressed the button "Yes"

-Hello, darling! It was a young man's voice. – Did you get my text yesterday?

-Oh, yes I did, - replied Jessica

-Good. And what do you think of the idea?

Jessica paused a minute. –Well, you know, I'm just a little busy now. Call me later..., or no, she stumped in hesitation, I'll call you later in the evening when I have free time, OK?

-I need you, Jess, - said the voice. –I'll be waiting for you whenever you call.

-All right, Jessica hurried up to finish the conversation. I'll phone you. See you soon.

-Bye.

Ingrid couldn't have heard that conversation because Jessica had taken some distance when she talked. And she talked cautiously so that her friend couldn't suspect anything. Besides, Ingrid's thoughts were occupied with other problems, mainly with her stolen car.

Jessica approached Ingrid, sat beside her, took her hand in hers and said:

-Come on, cheer up, girl. They'll find your car.

Her friendly support helped. Ingrid has always believed Jessica and trusted her in everything. She calmed down a little, and Jessica gave her a lift home.

When she came home, Ingrid received a call from Sam, her beloved. He told her he was busy next day and he couldn't go with her to the cinema. Ingrid replied she also wouldn't go there because she was distressed because of her car theft. Sam said he was very sorry and asked if he could help her. Ingrid replied she would cope with it herself and everything was not so bad.

Yet she was angry. She had been saving up so much money to buy that car. And now it was stolen! She had worked so hard to earn for it but alas...

Chapter 3

Ingrid felt like in prison in her own house. The four walls were very oppressing; she needed a drop of fresh air and something to relax. She remembered about the ticket to the cinema and decided to use it. The thought of going out alone somewhat embarrassed her, but she had no choice as Sam had said he wouldn't go. So it was a good opportunity to let her hair down.

She opened her dresser and took a gown at random. It happened to be just a plain blue dress. Ingrid didn't try to look nice as she was alone and in trouble. Her dress was matching her blue eyes and she wore white shoes that were very becoming to her. She arranged her hair looking in the mirror, took the bag and left for the cinema.

There were few people in the cinema, but it was rather stuffy there. Ingrid took her place in the middle row and waited for the film absorbed in her own thoughts, looking into distance. "It's a pity I'm alone here", she thought. "I wish Sam were here".

Sometimes people's wishes do come true, but they regret about them. They wish they hadn't wished it then.

Ingrid raised her eyes and saw...Sam arriving and with Jessica. They walked hand in hand, looking into each other's eyes, smiling and flirting. It was obvious that he was flirting with her, and she enjoyed it now keeping some distance, now yielding to some of his jokes and bursting into laughter. They didn't look merely like friends and one could easily guess that there was something between them.

The two sat in the front row but one. They paid no attention to the surrounding people and obviously failed to spot Ingrid in the dimly lit hall, but her eyes kept pursuing them furiously.

The film no longer interested her. Sam and Jessica were so close to each other talking about something in a whisper. Ingrid felt hot under the collar when their lips met in a kiss. It was so hurtful to see it all. Meanwhile, they kissed more and more, and then Jessica flung her white arms round Sam's neck. Ingrid was beside herself with rage. She couldn't stand it any more. Everything was clear now. She didn't remember how she slinked off from the cinema hall, got home and sank into oblivion for several days. She didn't talk to anyone, invited no guests, her telephone was silent. She was sitting and thinking or walking in the garden and thinking. Hardly did she ever feel like eating.

Ingrid hid her thoughts about the stolen car somewhere far in the mind. The betrayal of her beloved man and her "true" friend was worse than all the rest. She knew that Sam had been a bit strange lately, but Jessica! Her best friend and partner. Just to think of it! That's unbelievable. And so horrible.

Now, what was to be done? Go and tell Sam that she has seen him together with Jessica and make a scene? No, that's not wise. And not really like her. Pretend she hasn't seen anything? Well, maybe there is such a way out, but nothing can be treated as usual and just forgiven. Ingrid frowned. She would lose Sam but so much the better. She must cross him out of her life forever and forget about him. But how? And what will she do when she comes across Sam? Suddenly it dawned on her.

She rang Sam and told him she wanted to see him. They agreed to meet at 3 p.m. in the nearest café.

Ingrid was nervously waiting until Sam turned up, happy and cheerful. He found her sitting at the table and quickly approached her.

-Hi, Ingrid!

He leaned to her and kissed her on a cheek. It was the first time she felt disgust and disgrace when he did so. –How are you?

-I'm fine.

She was afraid lest her voice should betray her. She tried to sound confident and convincing with all her might. –I just wanted to talk to you.

-What about?

-About us.

There followed a pause. In her mind, Ingrid was searching for words .

– You know, I've been thinking about us, analyzing and I have come to believe that we are not a good match.

Sam listened to her with his eyes strained with suspicion. Ingrid pretended to pay no notice.

-Well, he said. –What do you mean?

-I mean that we have different expectations, thoughts, plans, wishes, intensions and so on. We are different, quite different.

-You are right. But sometimes different people get on well together, replied Sam, slightly confused with the direction of the conversation.

-Yes, but I think that's not our case. We are different, that's the thing. We just strive to different things in life; our goals do not coincide. I'd been trying to change something but you didn't help me and all was in vain. And not long ago I've met a person whom I consider my second half. He suits me in everything and I think we may share our joys and sorrows. He is like a true friend for me.

Ingrid hadn't lied so before. It seemed to her she was talking such an obvious nonsense that Sam would laugh at her in a minute. But her words were more convincing than she felt inside. Sam was silent pondering everything over. Ingrid wished she knew what he was thinking about. In a while, he broke the heavy silence with the following:

-You know, I've also considered it. We are so different indeed. And there is a real chase between us. So maybe you are right. It is time for a brake in our relationship. And... try to be happy with your beloved. What's his name, by the way?

-Stephen.

Ingrid chose the first name that came to her mind.

-Stephen, - pronounced Sam and it seemed to Ingrid that he said it with some hidden contempt. A treacherous smile curled his lips.

Chapter 4

Heart-broken and exhausted as she was, Ingrid was going home. Her thoughts circled around Sam. Did he believe her at all? She never knew. He just swallowed everything she had told him without questions. He looked as if he had been waiting for this conversation, as if he had expected it to happen. Anyway it doesn't matter now. Ingrid made up her mind to stay alone for some time. What's the use of today's men? They either sail under false colors like Sam and deceive you all the time or become alcoholics and abusers. The knights of the past are all gone forever.

Ingrid decided to live her own life and forget about everything. She needed comfort and rest.

-Excursions! Everyone is invited on our excursions! - announced a loud voice beside Ingrid when she was crossing the street on the way home trying to suppress the gloomy thoughts about Sam.

\- Excursions! Excursions! - repeated the vendor. - Would you like to go on an excursion, young lady?

"Yes, it's quite a good idea to go on an excursion and forget about everything, Ingrid thought. –World is full of wonders after all. I may then keep my eyes open instead of sitting at home and digesting all the failures of the day."

-What can you suggest? She inquired.

-Oh, lots of exciting things, answered the vendor. –Practically all the historical places of interest.

-I prefer something special.

-Then I suggest you an excursion to the cave. It is thrilling! You won't regret, I promise you.

Ingrid reckoned it was something she had never tried before and said excitedly:

-That'll do.

-In that case I advise you to wear warm clothes because the temperature in the cave is quite low.

-Thank you, replied Ingrid and went home.

Next day was very suitable for the excursion. Ingrid went out and looked at the sky. It was shielded with thick clouds. The warm sunshine changed to stream of summer breeze to cool the air. It was neither cold nor hot.

Ingrid headed for the excursion bus. The birds were singing merrily in the trees and it raised her mood. Yet some unknown feeling stirred inside her. Her intuition told her something was going to happen that day. Something unexpected and strange.

Meanwhile Ingrid took her seat in the bus. It was rather comfortable and next to the window, so that she could see the landscapes passing by. When they moved, the bus window was offering fantastic views.

In four hours they came to the destination. The guide called the group of tourists and they followed him. Ingrid felt good among them.

The cave was cool and dark inside. When the eyes adapted to the dimmed reddish light of the walls, they inspected everything with curiosity. The interior showed that many years ago people had been living here. The walls displayed some simple drawings and engravings dating back to some distant epoch. The walls glittered with some moist like morning dew. The guide was telling something vigorously and leading the group into some dark room but Ingrid didn't listen to him, inspired by everything new and unusual. She paused for a moment. Something was so enticing her to stay and she couldn't resist it. Ingrid approached the glittering wall. She found some words written on a small stone near the wall. She identified it as Old English. She had learnt this language at the university never knowing she would use it anywhere. No matter how scared she was to leave the group and to get lost in the cave, Ingrid couldn't resist the temptation and tried to decipher the words. Those were the following: "This is the door to the ancient past. If you want to look into it, please turn this stone upside down". It was a crazy thing to do but there was something drawing Ingrid to the stone, forcing her to take it. So she did and in a while the world began to change in her eyes. Some bright light flared her and ebbed. She sank into the pitch dark. Some cold wind flew from underneath and carried the smell of fade. Ingrid fell down unconscious.
Chapter 5

When she was awakened by the odor of smoke on the air, Ingrid heard some voices and screams around her. They were very strange. She opened the eyes and observed a terrifying sight at once - a fire in which people were burnt. They screamed and yelled and fell down to the flame. Other people were hustling about. Many were crying.

Ingrid didn't move. Her breath was taken away. She was scared. Somebody came up to her. It was a young woman who had ancient garments on.

-Adlwérig? , said the woman. She spoke Old English. Ingrid understood it approximately as "Are you feeling unwell?"

(Here and further it is implied that all the dialogues are represented in medieval English. But the equivalents in Modern English are offered).

Ingrid collected her wits and asked her:

-Where am I? –Who are those people?

Based on what that woman said, Ingrid understood that she got into Medieval England. The people burnt in the fire were betrayers and pagans. They were punished.

The woman led Ingrid to her home where she lived with her family. It was a large castle.

The medieval England abounded with castles which Ingrid found to be very beautiful in architecture but very cold, bleak and comfortless inside. There was only the fireplace to warm the room. The grey stone walls were icy, moist and obscure in winter. Obviously people often lived through starvation and suffered from different diseases incurable at those times.

Ingrid got dressed in medieval clothes and found it very uncomfortable at once. On the contrary, the food was all natural but it tasted odd as compared to that of the 21st century. Ingrid enjoyed this simple food. The cooking utensils made of clay impressed her as being too plain. Poor dwelling conditions, the lack of the simplest conveniences and hygiene, uneducated and workless, unskilled people, absence of communications- all that shocked Ingrid as inadaptable. It was very hard to get accustomed to it at once.

Ingrid rummaged in her bag (luckily she had her bag with her) and took out her cell phone. But there was no connection. Everyone was beyond the reach. Yet, the gadget itself sparked immense curiosity of the surrounding people. It took Ingrid a good deal of explanations to introduce a mobile telephone into the medieval society. Nobody could understand what a cell phone was. People touched it with their hands in such way as if it were golden, shook it and talked to it willing to hear each other. It amazed them.

Beside the telephone, there were a few make-up items in the bag, just some eyeshades, lipstick and cream. The cosmetics produced a stormy impression on the women. They were eager to try everything. Soon, the supplies of eyeshades and lipstick decreased.

Not only did the women try Ingrid's cosmetics but thy also looked into her mirror which became an object of their admiration. People were also fond of her hand watch. Honestly, Ingrid has never wanted to be in the centre of attention, but now she appeared to be surrounded with it. She was showered with questions about the contemporary world. She felt slightly ill at ease. On the other hand, Ingrid became a bit proud of being paid attention to and receiving support and understanding.

Already in a week Ingrid was beginning to get accustomed to the new world and the situation didn't seem to be so awkward. She made new friends, the family that accepted her was very friendly. There was a woman two years younger, Angelina, and they became friends with Ingrid. With time passing, everything seemed not so terrible and unusual. Ingrid was beginning to take it easy. Life was going its usual way.

Chapter 6

Ingrid was arranging her hair and combing it in front of the mirror when Angelina asked her:

-Look, we are going to the amphitheatre today. Will you join us, Ingrid?

\- And what's there in the amphitheater? Ingrid asked.

\- Oh, it is a sensational and memorable event. The two knights will fight for the daughter of the King. That will be quite something. You must see it!

-Does everyone go?

-Yes. A lot of people will come to see it. Let's go.

Ingrid applied a touch of rouge, consulted her mirror once more before she was satisfied with her looks, and left for the amphitheatre with Angelina.

The amphitheater was a quite large, with people crowding around and humming, ladies whispering something to each other and waving their fans. It was very hot and the people were sweaty. They had been waiting for half an hour before the battle began. Ingrid was beginning to be bored when it was announced that the knights were to start. The people grew noisy and impatient with expectation. Finally, the knights made their appearances on the arena and attracted everybody's eyes at once. The iron helmets, the special garments, the real swords and the real knights themselves- everything was so striking that Ingrid grew fascinated more and more. The knights took out their swords and crossed them. Everyone heard the clatter of iron with which they started.

-Who are those knights?

-One of them is a noble knight. That one, see? His name is Stuart. His father is a friend of the King. He is expected to win. They say he is in love with the Princess.

The other one is just a simple man though also a knight. His name is John.

\- I see, replied Ingrid.

As soon as the battle began, it became clear that both knights were very skillful warriors. Their technique was perfect. They were almost equal in strength. The duel (Ingrid called it so in her mind though it wasn't a duel) became a ferocious one. The two knights fought relentlessly, their heavy swords dazzling in the sunshine and whistling in the air. It warmed up the interest of the crowd and kept Ingrid in awe because in her mind she pitied both of them, it was a heart-braking scene. The rivals were exchanging heavy hits of the swords and fierce glances. Everyone observed it excitedly, holding the breath.

The success was changeable. They both exhibited irreproachable skills and perfection. The heat was in the air and in the hearts of the people. Everyone grew impatient. The knights grew exhausted. Something was going to happen.

Eventually, one of the knights used some technique unknown to the other one, attacked him fiercely and may him sway. The defeated man fell on the ground. Everybody screamed with excitement. But who was the winner? He took off his helmet and revealed his handsome face with green eyes shining with victory, and curly fair hair. He smiled triumphantly.

Looking at him, Ingrid gasped with admiration. The faces of the audience bore surprise.

\- Is it the noble knight who has gained the victory?

\- No, replied Angelina, embarrassed. –This knight is unknown and unpopular among the authorities. He is said to come out of a poor family. Nevertheless, the victory was destined to him. Now he is to marry the daughter of the King, the lovely Olivia.

Those were the words that hit Ingrid in the heart. Some unknown feeling has just been born in her soul- something like jealousy. She couldn't explain it even to herself. She realized it was unfair, but she wished that knight fought for her and she wished he won for her. Oh, how she wished it.

She didn't feel so much jealousy even when Sam betrayed her with Jessica. Those were painful memories but compared to this event, the pain and anger caused by Sam's tricks began to ease. Those past emotions were replaced with the new involvement of her heart, though solemn, hopeless and desperate. On the way home Ingrid fell into some weird depression, so silent and wistful that she was not even listening to the joyful and happy impressions of Angelina who tried to share her opinions with her.

Chapter 7

Stuart was not in the least satisfied with such development of events. He was defeated. He didn't want to admit it even to himself, but it was evident and everyone knew it. His pride was broken, his name was blackened, his dignity was diminished. He was measuring his room with quick steps, dashing to and fro. Curses flew from his lips.

-Damnation, he hissed. –I am defeated. By whom? By that county pauper. That's incredible!

He came to see the King to express his indignation. The King thought everything over, shook his head and said:

-In spite of the fact that your father and I are friends and I love you as my own son, I can't go back on my word. I've promised that the winner and not the loser would marry my daughter. I agree that the competition has taken an unexpected turn. But I am not entitled to change it. Otherwise I shall fall in the eyes of the people. My good name will be blackened. I'm very sorry.

\- But my Lord, pleaded Stuart, you know me well and you are aware of the fact that I am a noble knight and a good match for your daughter, and that fellow doesn't belong to any noble family. He is poor. He is nobody in fact!

But the King was determined.

-I said no! -He began to shout. Do you understand me? Does my word mean anything to you?!

-Yes, your Majesty, murmured the angry Stuart and trotted back to the door.

Stuart wasn't going to give up at all. He decided to stand his ground and to win Olivia by fair means or foul. The very same day Stuart met John. He said:

-Congratulations. You are the winner and the most skillful warrior. Be proud of it!

-Thank you, John modestly said.

-And you know, I am one of the King's faithful friends and the King trusts me. Let's not be rivals any more. Let's become friends. You may always rely on me. I may be of great help for you. Deal?

John accepted his friendship and they exchanged a handshake. Stuart left, and John had some uneasy feeling about it. It was not without reason.

After their conversation, Stuart hired a man, paid him a pretty good sum of money and asked him to hit John with a poisoned arrow. At first, the man refused to do it, but Stuart was threating and he finally agreed.

Meanwhile, John was going home, tired and joyous at the same time. Suddenly, he heard some sound like whistle in the air just behind him. He swiftly looked about him and saw an arrow approaching him at tremendous speed. John stepped aside and the arrow hit the bark of a large tree. John looked back. He saw a man run away. John turned out to be a good runner and he quickly reached the offender, grabbed his hand and pushed him down. He took out the sword which he always had with him and put its sharp end to the throat of the man.

-Tell me who sent you! - demanded John.

The offender kept silence, frightened.

-Tell me the truth or I'll cut your throat.

-It was Stuart, hissed the scared man. –Your rival.

John let him go, came up to the tree where the arrow was struck, took it out and felt the smell of poison coming from it. It dawned on him that they would never be friends with Stuart. They were rivals as before, even more now.

Chapter 8

The King and the Queen were talking about their daughter and her marriage. It was going to take place in a week. Everything was being carefully prepared for a luxurious wedding.

\- Is the wedding dress ready? - asked the King.

\- Not yet, but it is going to be a gorgeous one. The respectable people and all the authorities will admire it, while the poor will choke with envy, the Queen giggled tartly.

\- Oh, don't say so, the King reassured. – Everyone in my Kingdom loves and respects Olivia. No one is going to envy her.

\- Do you know the bridegroom by the way? Who is he?

\- I don't know him personally, but I am sure he is a good person and he will be a good spouse for our daughter.

\- I don't care what kind of person he is. Whoever he might be, he should come from a noble and respectable family, said the Queen abruptly. –Do you know his parents?

\- Well, the King was fidgety a little, I don't. They live rather far from here. (He lied blindly). But they are said to be noble.

John's origin was kept in secret from the Queen and her daughter. The King suggested Stuart to become a husband for his daughter. Stuart had wished it long ago. But later, the King noticed that Stuart evinced deceit, treachery and meanness in his actions. The truth always came to the surface and it angered the King. But as he realized the Queen was a woman of hot temper and cold calculating mind, he knew that she had taken fancy to Stuart. And Olivia was a chip of old block. She had taken after her mother. The King didn't fancy Stuart as a match for Olivia, so he arranged a competition between the two knights one of which was supposed to be Stuart and the other one could be any volunteer, so that the chances to win should be equal. And John volunteered because he found out about the competition when he was in the town. The King knew that John was a good knight and perfectly mastered the sword. The King agreed to chose John as a rival for Stuart.

-All right, said the Queen suspiciously. –We'll see.

Chapter 9

Ingrid was returning home from the market after she had bought some food for the family. Angelina had asked her to do so and given her some money. The road was hot with the day's sunshine, stony and dusty. Ingrid grew thirsty. The heat was oppressive. Ingrid decided to cut the long road short by going through the wood. So she turned to a winding wood path and disappeared in the thick foliage of the trees and grass. The wood breathed with a pleasant cooling breeze. A forest stream sparkled in the bright carpet of flowers. Ingrid neared the water. A small bird of blue and green coloring sat on a flower and sang. The bees hummed in the air and drank flower nectar in search of honey. The emerald grass glistened with drops of dew. Ingrid marveled the bird for a while. Then she picked up a leaf of some plant, rolled it and wanted to scoop some water from the stream and drink it. She leaned down to the stream.

Suddenly, some hand grabbed her neck, pressed it down painfully and a hoarse men's voice said:

-Now, my dear girl, you will not escape from me! Alone in the forest. Well, well! He ticked with his tongue.

Ingrid was frightened to death. She noticed numerous scratches and spots on the man's hairy arm and there was a smell of garlic on his breath.

Ingrid stirred and tried to shout but she couldn't.

\- Hush, the man threatened. – Be quiet. There's nobody to hear you, stupid girl.

Ingrid thought it was a robber because she was carrying a basket of food. But he pushed her down to the ground and started unbuttoning her dress. It dawned on her that he was going to rape her.

\- Help! Help!!! She cried in despair, blood rushing through her veins.

-Shut up!

He covered her lips with his palm. –Nobody hears you here.

-Why are you so sure about it?

Some voice came from ahead like a miracle.

\- Don't touch her, or you'll have to deal with me, said a pleasant and confident voice, and the stranger whistled his sword through the air.

Ingrid looked up and...couldn't believe her eyes. It was John, the same knight who had won the competition, in flesh and blood. She saw a challenge in his brave green eyes. Her offender rebelled and got hold of his sword. Once more there came a clatter of iron. But this time John defeated the rival only with several hits of his sword. The blackguard fell down and crawled away in a fright.

Ingrid was standing aside, confused and baffled. Everything happened so quickly and suddenly that she was completely at a loss.

John came up to her.

-Are you all right? He asked.

-Yes, thank you, answered Ingrid, weakly. A faint smile appeared on her face.

\- What's your name? He asked.

\- Ingrid, she replied.

\- He didn't hurt you, did he?

\- Oh, no. I'm fine. Thank you very much. It was so kind of you. And brave. I don't know what I would have done without your help.

\- Don't mention.

A serious look on his face made his features even more handsome then she had observed it during the competition. His face was wearing a calm and noble expression.

\- I am a knight and it is my duty to defend people, he said.

\- Oh, I've seen you fight against another noble knight for the Princess. I was really impressed. You revealed so much courage!

\- So you were among the audience. How did you find out about the competition?

\- I came there with my friend Angelina. I live with her family.

\- Where are you going now? He was interested.

\- I'm going home from the market. We live in the village near the forest.

\- Really? I also live there not far from the forest. So we are both on the way home.

They left the forest and turned to a green lawn with bushes of wonderful white roses all in blossom.

\- I am also going home through the forest because it is cool and comfortable here, John explained.

\- Right you are, agreed Ingrid, smiling with pleasure.

\- Why did you decide to take part in the competitions? You must be in love with the Princess?

\- No, I've hardly ever seen her. I can't say what made me interested in it. Maybe it was out of sheer interest, just to know whether I win or lose.

\- But it was very dangerous. You could have been wounded!

Now Ingrid remembered that the upper button on her dress was still undone. She flushed and quickly buttoned it up. John didn't seem to pay attention to it.

\- Don't mention. I've got used to danger since childhood. It hardens the spirit of a knight.

John took his sword, cut a rose carefully and presented it to Ingrid. The latter grew so excited that she captured the rose fervently and cut her finger with a sharp thorn. Some drops of red fell on the delicate white petals and colored them with stains.

\- Oh, no! She said. How careless I am.

The worried John cut a slice of cloth from his white sleeve and wiped her injured finger.

-There, there, he said and kissed her hand.

It was a moment of delight for Ingrid. She felt like in Paradise when he was paying court to her. She has never even dreamt of it!

John looked into her eyes. They exchanged glances. She was enchanted with his deep kindness in the serious green eyes. They emitted such magnetism that Ingrid sensed some new, irresistible feeling capture her heart, mind and soul. She was aware of John's engagement with the Princess, but there appeared a flash of conflict inside her, sharper and more painful than swords. It tortured her soul. Now she was beginning to regret going to that amphitheater and meeting John. And also, traveling to the epoch of cruelty and horror.

Chapter 10

Olivia was in her room when she heard a knock on the door. She has just put on a new fancy dress and was choosing the necklace and earrings.

\- Come in! She answered.

The door was opened, and a stalwart, robust figure of Stuart crossed the threshold of her room.

\- Good morning, my sweet lady, he said.

His words and the intonation with which he pronounced them revealed much jealousy and bitterness.

\- Let me disagree with you. I am no longer "your sweet lady" because since now I shall belong to the noble knight who has won my heart.

Her face reflected irony.

\- Oh. How touching!

Stuart gave an envious giggle and came up closer to Olivia, peering at her from the corner of his eye. –Only you should know that your "noble" knight is not noble at all.

\- What?

Olivia stared at him in astonishment. – What do you mean by this?

\- I am telling you John is not a noble knight in the least. He was born and brought up in a common country family in the village near the forest. He is unknown, unprivileged and, to put it mildly, as poor as a church mouse. That's what he is!

His words baffled Olivia and stirred her evil.

\- You are a liar! She didn't believe him. – You've made up this story to confuse me and to distance me from my future spouse. It is so convenient for you to blacken his name in my eyes. You want to convince me that he is nobody and nothing because you are afraid of him. He is stronger than you and more skillful. He defeated you, loser!

Her derisive laughter now made him feel uncomfortable. A flame of rage ran through his nerves.

-I've told you the truth, I swear, he exclaimed in irritation.

\- Well, everyone has his own truth, you know. But this time, your truth and my truth are different. I know you can lie as good as I do. This is what we have in common.

A rapacious smile ran over her lips.

\- Believe me, Olivia. Only I can make you happy. I'm a noble knight and a rich man and a friend of your father...

-And a loser! Olivia added tartly.

After those words, Stuart grew silent and hot under the collar. His got malicious. She was scornful.

\- Oh, don't talk to me like this! You know I am a Scorpio and can easily fly into passion. Don't tease me.

\- Do you think you know what passion is?

Olivia was provoking him.

That was the last straw for Stuart. He exploded with ardor, captured Olivia, kissed her furiously, pushed her down on the floor and took her by force. They became lovers.

Chapter 11

When she arrived home, Ingrid was overwhelmed with anxiety. She entrusted her story to Angelina, her closest friend. The latter was listening to her and catching all the details about how John rescued her. Ingrid was talking with admiration about John, as if she was in love with him. Angelina guessed it and hurried to warn her friend.

\- Mind that he's going to marry the Princess, Ingrid! Be careful. Olivia shouldn't to find out about your feelings. I have heard she's a cruel woman, just like the Queen. Forget about John. It will be better for you to do so, believe me.

\- I adore him, Angelina. And I am grateful to him for saving my life. He behaved like an angel and like a real knight! From now, he will live in my heart. But I won't intrude into their relationships with Olivia.

\- Oh Ingrid, God bless you, dear!

Angelina embraced her warmly.

When Angelina left, Ingrid took out the rose that John had given her that day. It was still fresh and lovely. But the delicate creamy petals were slightly stained with blood. Ingrid looked at the rose and recollected John with solemn sadness of heart. Then she hid the rose into a box with her necklace, closed the box and put it under the pillow. She was tired and fell asleep right away.

She saw a wonderful dream.

It was a warm summer evening and she was in the castle arranging her clothes. A faint but very winsome voice reached from the outside. The voice was singing a lovely song and its tune stirred Ingrid's heartstrings.

She looked out of the window and saw John kneeling on the ground and singing a serenade for her. She ran out of the castle in anxiety. His delightful voice and the thought that he was singing it for her because he loved her made her heart leap violently. She was in the seventh heaven with happiness.

One the lovely serenade was over, she thanked him for it. He said he had composed the song for her because he was often thinking and dreaming about her. He appreciated her and as it seemed to Ingrid, admired her. Then John got to his feet, came up to Ingrid, looking into her eyes tenderly, his hands slowly undoing the upper button of her mauve dress. He removed a lock of hair from her face, and their lips joined in an affectionate kiss...

Chapter 12

When doubt overcomes a person, it is necessary to verify everything. Olivia became unsure about the origin and social position of the person who was going to become her husband, especially after the conversation with Stuart and his fervent persuasions. Hesitation undermined her confidence. She didn't exclude the possibility of being deceived.

Olivia called one of her servants:

\- Valentine!

\- Yes, my Lady.

The servant appeared in a hurry.

\- I have a special task for you. Go and find out everything about my prospective spouse John. I mean, I need to know who he is, where he comes from, who he deals with, I want to read him like a book.

\- But...

-No "buts"! Do what I say! I'll double your wages.

The confused servant was prone to submission.

\- And keep me always in contact.

\- Yes, my Lady.

She let him go and soon her mind delayed the gloomy suspicions concerning John and replaced them with the expectations of triumph as she was thinking about her future. She went to her mother Queen to settle some questions about the entertainments and guests invited to the wedding.

Chapter 13

-Wake up, Ingrid! It's time to go!

Angelina came to wake her. Ingrid was still sleepy and she caught the last drops of romantic dream already escaping from her. She opened her eyes unwillingly.

\- Ingrid, you've been sleeping so long today and smiling so sweetly. I suppose you've had a pleasant dream.

\- Oh, yes, it was a nice dream indeed.

\- Let me guess. You were dreaming about John, weren't you?

\- How do you know?

\- It is not difficult to guess after you have told me the story about the rose.

Ingrid was frowning. She let her eyes down.

Angelina changed the topic.

\- Look, we are going to the river today. Will you join us?

\- Certainly, I'd like to!

She changed her mood and brightened up.

It was a pleasant fresh morning with sunshine mixed with white mist and cool dew on the juicy green grass. A light breath of wind stirred the water in the river and made some ripples on its smooth surface, like a cloth, reflecting the sky, the sun, the green banks and the trees.

Ingrid, Angelina and Angelina's parents went on a picnic. They settled themselves comfortably on the lawn near the river and had lunch.

After lunch, it was getting hotter. The sun rose high in the sky and the air became sultry. Everybody was going to return home when Ingrid wished to refresh her face with cool water of the river. She rolled her hair in a bundle, took off her earrings and placed them into her box with the necklace where she kept the dried rose - a wisp of sweet recollections of her heart. She left the box in the grass at her side, leaned down, dipped her hands into the cold and transparent water and splashed it over her face. She had to hurry because Angelina called her. She left the river, forgot about her box, and it was resting silently in the long grass waiting for someone to take it up. And it didn't have to wait for a long time...

Chapter 14

An old man in poor shabby clothes with a stick in his hand was wandering on the lawn near the river. He seemed to be looking for strawberries. He was holding a huge sack in his hands; he picked the berries, inspected them carefully, and put them into the sack or discarded them if he found rotten ones. The man seemed to be as busy as a bee. Though a keen observer would surely notice that the berries were beyond the range of his interest. Time and again the man was looking up, his narrow sly eyes following someone, someone he knew well. He had a special task. He was spying. About ten steps ahead of him, two young men, John and his friend Edward were strolling. They were having a friendly conversation. The old man was keeping an eye on both of them.

\- Are you happy you are going to marry the Princess?

Edward asked.

\- Well, actually I've never even seen her. I decided to take part in the competition merely out of interest. And I won.

\- Certainly, there were a lot of volunteers...

His right boot struck against something in the grass. He bent down and took up a nice box.

\- Oh, he said. –It seems to belong to some lady, doesn't it?

\- Let's see what is inside of it, suggested John.

They opened the casket. It contained a white necklace of small beads, some plain green earrings and a rose slightly spotted with blood.

I guess I know whom it belongs, said John.

\- Do you?

Edward was surprised.

-This lady lives in the castle of Angelina Gray. She is the guest of the family. I know her.

The old man raised his head, let the sack fall down from his hands. He strained his eyes and he was all ears.

\- Yes, I've seen her with that necklace and earrings on, John continued.

\- And the rose? Edward wondered.

John only shrugged his shoulders. He didn't want to let the cat out of bag.

\- Lucky you are, said Edward a bit sadly, you know a lot of young ladies here, and you managed to win the favor of the best of them, the beautiful Olivia.

-Well, who knows? They say, don't count your chickens until they are hatched. Anyway, I think we should return the box to the owner.

-Then you go and give it to her and I have to visit my grandmother who is ill. See you later.

-Take care.

And they parted.

Chapter 15

On the way to Ingrid, John was a little concerned. Not only did he think about the box carelessly left in the grass, but he also wondered about the rose kept in it. Why did Ingrid keep that rose? Was it just a memorable thing for her or was there something more to it? No doubt, it was the very same rose he had given to her for, there were bloodstains on it. The rose meant something to her. And this made his wonder. What would he do if he were Ingrid? Why should he keep that rose dried in the box? And his common sense told him that only a woman in love could keep that rose. The thought struck him as weird and thrilling. Did she have any feelings for him?

So he was walking absorbed in thoughts and unaware of being closely watched from behind.

When he approached the castle, John saw a wonderful scene: some country youths were singing and playing medieval music in the yard. The ladies, including Angelina and Ingrid, were dancing. He unconsciously turned his view to Ingrid. She had a light pink dress on and her lovely dark hair was falling down in waves. Fresh rouge on her face highlighted her charm. Her dancing was so natural and graceful. Something in her appearance made his heart sink. John understood that he conceived some secret affection to her, unknown before. And that began to worry him because in six days he was to marry the Princess. And now all his thoughts shifted from Olivia to her. That was wrong. He shouldn't think about her.

John was on the point of going home when Angelina called him.

-John, come here and join us!

Ingrid looked about her and noticed John. She gave him an excited smile. Frankly speaking, she didn't think to meet him any more. But here he was, the knight that stirred her feelings. He was like an angel that came down from the Heavens. She caught his ogle and let her eyes rest on the ground.

He was the first to break the silence:

-I've found this near the river. I think it's yours.

Ingrid was startled. She even didn't know she had lost the box. It simply slipped out of her memory. But how?

\- Where did you find it?

\- Well, it was my friend who found it. Edward and I were walking near the river when he accidentally came across it. At first, I had no idea it was yours. We opened it and I noticed the familiar necklace and earrings...

-Thank you so much.

She hurried to take the casket looking into his eyes gratefully.

-John, Ingrid, come up here! We are waiting for you!

Angelina called them.

They obeyed and followed her. John was simply bursting to ask Ingrid about the rose but Angelina checked his attempt with her invitation.

Evening was approaching and coloring the sky with a mild, rosy-yellowish sunset when all the people left after dancing to their heart's content. John and Ingrid were left in privacy walking in the garden near the castle.

John said:

\- I have to tell you something very important, Ingrid.

\- What is it?

She asked with some apprehension, but he soothed her fear with a tender glare and took her hand in his.

- You know, I've been always looking for something in my life, but I didn't understand what it was. I just felt that something was missing. Later, it dawned on me that it was the lack of love- the true love. And I believe that every person has his or her second half, so I have to find mine. Then I fought for the heart of the princess whom I hardly knew and who didn't evince any interest in me. And when my desperate searches came to an end, you appeared on the horizon as if sent to me by the God. So I realize that I've been looking for you all my life. You outshined all the women I had known, you are so irresistible and divine.

Ingrid was impressed, astounded in fact. And wordless. She brightened with happiness. A beautiful butterfly settled on her sleeve and waved its wings as if also amazed by the situation.

\- Now I understand that I love you, Ingrid.

He continued. Ingrid was moved with his words to the point of tears. She didn't even dream to hear this from him and hardly believed her ears. His candid and effusive words overwhelmed her heart with warmth, trust and admiration. She felt the same for him and he read it in her eyes. Then she leaned down to his chest and embraced him. Sweet emotions warmed her heart but she had to talk about the sad reality:

\- I also have to tell you something important. I am afraid it is difficult to explain and you will hardly ever understand it but... I am a woman of the 21st century.

John was in silent shock while she continued:

-You see, it is a long story. I don't really live in your epoch...

She told him how she had got into the medieval epoch. John was listening to her without interrupting, he was astonished. Then Ingrid showed her cell phone to prove that she didn't make up her story. John believed and disbelieved her at the same time. He was baffled.

- I need to think it over, but whoever you should be, that doesn't change anything because I love you. I wish I could get into your time and see the world you had been living in, and stay with you forever.

His face leaned towards her and their lips shared a passionate kiss. The last rays of the evening sun slipped between the lines of their straight noses and shone on the outlines of their faces from aside. The sunset was so charming that evening, the burning background with the silhouette of the two people kissing. A silent tune of some pleasant music reached from the distance. It was a fantastic evening.

Chapter 16

Olivia's face yellowed with rage. Her eyes were flashing lightning.

-You say, Valentine, they were kissing in the garden?!

-Yes, my Lady, but...

\- Curse it! How could it have happened? The noble knight who had once fought for me kissing some country girl. What a disgrace!!

Her face darted fury.

\- And what was after it?

She asked with an evil suspicion.

\- Well, after the kiss he had seen her home and they parted. That's all.

-Oh, she has cast a spell upon him, I know.

\- Maybe it was just a kiss and nothing more.

\- Shut up! I pay you for the information and not for your philosophic nonsense. Go out!

\- But my Lady, should I continue to follow him or is it enough?

Olivia thought a little and tried to conquer her anger.

\- Keep on watching him. I want to trace his every step, his every movement.

\- May I leave? My Lady?

\- Yes, and tell Lewis to come.

\- Yes, My Lady.

He disappeared in the chambers. Soon Lewis, another servant of the Princess, was before her.

\- You called me, my Lady?

-Yes. Do you know the village nearest to the forest?

\- Certainly, my Lady.

\- Are you aware of the place where so-called Angelina Gray lives?

\- I guess I am.

-Good. She gave an evil grin. –Then you'll have to deliver a present to her guest, Ingrid, as far as I know. And tell her that this present is from John, is it clear? She will understand. Keep your own counsel about everything.

She handed him the present – a cake she had carefully and thoroughly stuffed with poison. It was meant to be a surprise for Ingrid from...John.

Chapter 17

Lewis was approaching the castle with the gift of the Princess in his hands when he caught sight of Margaret, an acquaintance of his and a friend of Angelina. She was far from him, obviously returning from the wood. He was afraid lest she should notice him and turned aside. He fastened his pace in the opposite direction but it was too late. He didn't escape from Margaret.

\- Lewis! Is it you?!

Silence.

\- Lewis!

Now it became clear he had nowhere to run.

\- Oh, hello, Margaret. Haven't seen you for ages, he said. – How are you?

\- Fine. And how are the things with you?

She came up to him, smiling.

\- Not bad, thank you.

\- Where are you heading for?

It was the question he was most afraid of. He made up the answer in a hurry:

\- Oh, I have to carry those things to a friend. I was asked to.

\- And what is it in your hands wrapped in red? It looks like a present.

I don't know. They just gave it to me wrapped in this cloth already. I didn't open.

\- I see.

\- Are you invited to the wedding of the Princess, Margaret?

He changed the topic.

\- Yes, I'd like to be there. They say, the wedding dress will be magnificent. Besides, I've heard lots about the entertainments. And the guests will be numerous because many people are looking forward to this memorable event.

\- Right you are... Well, will you excuse me? I must be off now.

\- Certainly, I won't keep you waiting. See you soon.

\- Bye!

He readily escaped out of sight.

Chapter 18

-Good morning, Miss Gray! May I see Ingrid, your guest?

-Surely. Angelina answered him.

-Ingrid! Come here please!

Ingrid appeared.

-Good morning, said the visitor. –I have to deliver you a present. It is from John.

\- What is it?

She was surprised.

\- I have no idea, answered the man. - You may unwrap it yourself if you please. Here.

He handed her the package and left.

Ingrid and Angelina unwrapped the box. It contained a cake. The women exchanged their delighted glances.

Let's put it on the table under the tree, Ingrid suggested. –I'll bring it there.

-Ok, Angelina agreed.

Angelina took the cake that turned out to be quite heavy and carried it to the table but stumbled against a stub of an old tree and let the cake fall down splashing on the grass all around.

-Oh no! What a shame!

She was scolding herself for her clumsiness.

Angelina rushed to her.

-It's ok. Don't worry about it. Everyone can stumble. That's not your fault.

Yet Ingrid frowned.

-John will hate me when he finds out that I have spoilt his present, such a nice cake!

\- What cake? John was passing by and decided to drop in. Ingrid looked about herself and saw him.

\- Oh, John, I'm so sorry. How could I have been so clumsy? I don't know.

\- What do you mean by this?

\- You sent me a cake and I let it down on the grass. That's terrible!

\- Wait a minute.

John interrupted her in a wonder. –I haven't sent you any cake. Where did you find it?

Ingrid turned her interrogative eyes to him.

-You haven't sent me the cake? This cake was delivered by a man who said it was from you. It wore this red wrapping.

She showed him the red cloth.

-Very strange.

John wrinkled his forehead in thought and his beautiful straight eyebrows.

\- How did he look like, that man?

Margaret approached them, greeting.

\- Hi friends! Glad to see you.

- Hello Margaret, said Ingrid.

Margaret looked around and saw the red wrapping of the cake.

\- What is it? I've just seen this red stuff in the hands of Lewis, the servant of Olivia.

Chapter 19

Olivia lit scented candles, put on her fancy night dress, and was looking out of the window of the castle waiting for Stuart. The night covered the land with warm ambient darkness. The grasshoppers were singing, and the stars were twinkling. The glitter of the moon reflected in the water of the river was swinging on the waves as if trying to run somewhere far away. Olivia was peering at it and scheming something evil. Her lips stirred in a sneer.

There was a knock on her door.

-Come in!

She thought it was Stuart. But the door was opened and Valentine appeared on the threshold in the dim light. He entered the room.

\- Good evening, my Lady!

-Valentine, why are you so late? I was going to go to bed already. In ten minutes, I wouldn't have let you in at all.

She expressed indignation.

\- I'm sorry my Lady, but I wouldn't have disturbed you if I hadn't got serious news for you.

\- What news?

\- Well, I don't know how to say but...

\- Say as it is!

-To put it mildly, he began, -our plan failed.

\- How is that?

Olivia grew fidgety.

\- That girl Ingrid let the cake down on the grass when carrying it to the table. Besides, Lewis was noticed with that cake in the country by some girl supposed to be a friend of Ingrid. She saw the cake in her hands and told her it had been brought by Lewis, your servant. Then John arrived and denied sending her the cake. So this is all.

\- Why do you always bring such bad news, you devil!

She shouted at him burning with anger.

-I am so sorry, my Lady, but my task was only to get the information. I wasn't involved into the schemes. Perhaps, Lewis is to blame for his lack of caution and negligence. It isn't my fault.

- But you could have done something to prevent the things from taking such a turn instead of simply looking on!

-Oh, I wish I could, my Lady.

A faint consolation sounded in his voice.

-Oh yes, she hissed. -Lewis is to pay for everything, right you are.

\- Now, tell him and Derek to kidnap that girl and put her into the tower together with the pagans sentenced to death. She will rot there... no she will be burnt, said Olivia with silent rage. –You are still here? Go and do what I say, and get out of here. Now!

-Yes, my Lady.

Valentine hurried to escape.

In a minute, a knock on the door interrupted Olivia's gloomy thoughts.

-Who is it? She was irritated.

-It's me, my dear.

The voice of Stuart broke the silence of the room.

-Leave me alone! I don't feel like talking now.

Stuart opened the door.

\- Well, my dear, he said. Who says we are going to talk? Don't you want a bit of love?

\- No, not now. I'm so tired tonight and not in my best mood. Just leave me alone, please.

\- Oh, no my dear. It was you who asked me to come to you tonight. And I see you have been waiting for me. Look, you've put on your best night dress and lit the scented candles. Everything is perpared for me, am I right?

\- Yes, but now I've changed my mind.

\- What happened?

\- Nothing. I just need rest.

\- No, you don't. You are so anxious that it is unlikely you will fall asleep soon. You are infuriated with something. What is it?

\- It's not your business, she rebuffed. I've told you I'm not in the mood.

He hesitated just a moment.

\- Well, as you wish. But I'm telling you I'll find out everything. You will regret you haven't told me yourself. Remember my words!

He left.

Chapter 20

It was late at night that Lewis and Derek found the castle where Ingrid lived. The dim light of candles emerged from the windows. People in the castle were having supper at that time. The clatter of dishes came from above.

It is so unusual that we dine here under the candlelight, said Ingrid. – In the 21st century, we have electricity and the light is so bright that it is almost like in the day time.

\- So you don't need any candles at all?

Angelina wondered.

\- No, we do need some. But only for special occasions. For a romantic dinner, for example.

\- Oh, how curious! - Exclaimed Angelina –Tell us about it. Did you have such a dinner?

Angelina's mother looked at her with reproach:

-It's not good of you to ask such questions, Angelina. Mind it! You are asking about personal matters of Ingrid.

Angelina flushed a little.

-I'm sorry, she apologized.

-It's OK, Ingrid replied. Actually, I had no romantic dinner opportunity because Sam, the young man whom I loved, didn't care about me. He cheated on me.

-Oh, no! Poor girl.

Everyone was concerned.

-But I suppose he is punished. In our epoch, he would be burnt!

Indignation was in her voice.

\- No, Ingrid replied. – He is not punished because there is no law to make the cheaters responsible for their actions. Besides, we were not married yet.

-To be honest, I don't like it. Angelina rebelled. - He must be responsible for this outrage.

Ingrid stayed silent and indignant.

\- Don't be sad, my dear girl, Angelina's mother placed her arm round her shoulders to cheer her up. –Would you like another cup of chamomile tea?

\- Yes. Thank you.

\- Treat yourself to cottage cheese and honey, my dear.

\- Thank you, it's delicious indeed.

\- You know what I think, Angelina began, - Ingrid is still young and charming. She will find the right person to love her. But it has to be a kind, devoted and affectionate man.

\- Right you are, Angelina, her mother replied. Look at the young men of our country, for example John. A lot of ladies dream about him. He is loyal and reliable. I wish you had come to our epoch a bit earlier. Then John wouldn't have fought for the Princess.

Ingrid spread her lips into a wistful smile.

\- Be sure Ingrid, you will soon meet your knight, said Angelina. – By the way, about knights. I know an excerpt from "Beowulf" by heart.

And while she was reciting, it Ingrid turned on the recording function on the cell telephone. When she finished reciting, everyone applauded.

-It's amazing, Ingrid exclaimed.

-Oh, it smells like smoke, said Angelina's father all of a sudden.

-Excuse me?!

-I say I feel smoke in the air. It seems to be going from outside.

-Fire! Fire! The voices were heard in the yard.

Everyone ran out in a hurry.

The wooden hut near the forest was on fire. There was no fear that the fire would damage the castle because it was made of stone. But the flame could spread into the forest.

Everyone hustled around in search of buckets, pots, anything to bring water from the river. Angelina and her mother hurried to the river. Ingrid was asked to fetch a large tub for rainwater in the yard. She had scarcely taken some ten steps when she was captured. A large hand of a man was put on her mouth to prevent her from crying for help and a harsh voice said: "Only a word and your head will be off!" Ingrid was dragged somewhere far away in the pitch darkness of the night.

Chapter 21

When she recovered her consciousness, Ingrid looked about herself. She was lying on the floor in a dark, close and stuffy room. She raised her head resisting almost unbearable pain in the neck and noticed with disgust that the chamber was dirty and slippery. Ingrid felt dizzy. The situation was perilous and oppressive. Ingrid made a step and her right foot slipped as if on the soapy floor and she nearly fell down when her hands managed to grip something nearby, evidently some stone protruding from the wall. She felt some moist on it. Perhaps the stone was covered with moss. She leaned towards the wall and stayed there for a while. The cold surface of the stone and the support helped her not to fall into a swoon again though she felt sick and unwell. She looked around in the room. It appeared to be a long dark corridor with high ceiling and only one small window high above her. A faint ray of daylight climbed through that window to poorly light the prison-like room. Later on Ingrid noticed a door in the wall but it wouldn't open.

Ingrid was alone. The woman realized she was in trouble. Ingrid lacked fresh air and she was very thirsty. She wished someone could rescue her.

Suddenly she heard some voices in the distance echoing in the corridor and cried for help. The door was opened by a man.

-Don't shout, - followed the words.

He put a bowl of porridge, a small share of stale bread and a pot of water before her. Ingrid followed his movements with the eyes almost mad with shock.

-Let me out of here! Please help me!

No answer.

-Who are you? Why are you keeping me here?

-You are one of the condemned. You are in disgrace before the royal family.

-But I didn't do anything wrong. Please, let me out... You said the royal family?

-Yes, it was the will of Princess Olivia to condemn you.

-Princess Olivia?

-Yes. You are one of those who offend her.

-I've never offended her. I don't even...

-I don't care whether you offended her or not. I am only a watchman here. My duty is to bring you food and to lead you to the executioner tomorrow. You and the others.

-Executioner?! What's going to be with me tomorrow?

She was pale with horror, her heart leaping violently.

-You will be burnt.

Those words hit Ingrid like a knife in the heart. Her knees trembled and she fainted.

Chapter 22

Angelina and her parents managed to conquer the fire very fast and neither the castle nor the forest was damaged. The wooden hut was almost completely destroyed with the fire but it was not a big loss. It could be easily reconstructed if needed. But the trouble was that nobody knew what had caused the fire. The hut couldn't have flared up for no reason. The most surprising was that the fire happened at such a late hour, at night. It was very odd.

Another strange event rocked the village, no one could find Ingrid. Everybody lost sight of her. The forest and the surrounding area were thoroughly searched but to no avail. Angelina and her parents asked the people of the country whether they had seen her but it was useless. Ingrid was missing.

However, there was a hint. Angelina found Ingrid's cell telephone in the grass not far from the place of the fire. Angelina collected it and pressed some buttons on it. She was astounded to hear her own voice coming from the device. The recording was turned on. Angelina heard herself reciting the excerpt of "Beowulf" the very same evening at supper. She has never dreamt of hearing her voice recorded! The poem ended with a generous applause. Then there came the words of her father "It smells like smoke!" "Excuse me?" –Angelina recognized her own voice. "Fire!" "Fire!" -the voices in the yard. Then silence. Then a hustle – a clatter of dishes and distant voices and screams all around. Then- rustling of the grass, splashes of water and crackling of the fire devouring the wooden hut. And then she heard somebody's suppressed sigh and shriek and the harsh voice of a man: "Only a word and your head will be off!" And then- silence again.

Angelina wanted to reproduce the voice but she didn't know how to do it. The voice struck her as a very familiar. It seemed to her she had heard it somewhere.

Chapter 23

-What is it, Angelina?

Her father appeared just in time.

-It seems to be Ingrid's tele... I don't remember what she had called it.

-Let me see.

She handed the cell phone to her father and he looked it over.

\- Oh yes, this is the thing. She must have lost it.

\- Fancy that! This thing can remember and reproduce voices.

\- Are you joking?

Her father displayed a skeptical glimpse of his eyes. He looked awry.

\- No, I'm quite serious. Angelina reassured him. – Just look here.

She turned on the device to demonstrate how it worked. At that time Margaret joined them. They listened to the recording together.

Once more they heard their voices, the conversation at the table, Angelina's presentation of the poem, the screams about the fire and so on. And on hearing the last phrase Margaret recognized the voice of Lewis saying "Only a word and your head will be off!" These words were as if welded into her memory.

-Edward!

Mrs. Gray called the young man passing by. Edward looked around, caught sight of Margaret, Angelina and Angelina's father, and greeted them warmly. They shook hands.

\- Where are you going, my friend? Mr. Gray asked.

-To the smithy. My sword needs sharpening.

He took the sword out of the sheath and pressed his finger on the edge of the sword to show it was not sharp enough.

\- Oh, I see, said Mr. Gray. –As you are heading for the smithy, please tell John I want to see him.

\- Certainly I will, followed the answer. Edward left.

\- How do you think, what has been done to Ingrid? Angelina asked Margaret.

\- I think she has been kidnapped, but I have no idea why.

\- Neither do I. I suppose she is kept in some cold and dismay place and... maybe they raped her. Oh my god! My dear friend!

Angelina burst into tears and buried her face on her father's shoulder.

-There, there, he said. Don't think about the worst. Everything will be all right.

Chapter 24

-Mr. Gray, Angelina, what happened?

John noticed they were in grief.

-Thank God you are here, said Angelina, all in tears.

\- But what is it?

Angelina told him everything about the kidnapping and mentioned the recording. They reproduced it together and heard the awful words once more. No doubt, the voice belonged to Lewis.

\- I'll go and find out everything right now.

John was very decisive.

John found Lewis in the street. The latter seemed to be going to the market. Their conversation was short and precise.

  * Oh, isn't it the courageous knight of John! He began. – Glad to see you, old friend.

  * And I can't say I am also glad to see you. And I am not your old friend, anyway. Just listen to this!

He turned on the recording.

Lewis was stunned, especially when he heard his own voice saying "Only a word and your head will be off!"

\- What is this? He hissed.

\- Tell me where Ingrid is or your own head will be off!

\- What are you talking about? Asked the frightened Lewis as John put the edge of his sword to his throat.

\- Don't pretend you don't know. We have recognized your voice. You've kidnapped Ingrid. Tell me where she is, now!

He was threatening to cut Lewis' throat, and the villain had no way to escape.

-She's... in the tower.

-What tower?

For the condemned. She is to be executed tomorrow.

\- What for? Who told you to bring her there?

Silence was the answer.

\- Tell me or you will be executed right now, John demanded. –Tell me.

He shook him.

\- Princess Olivia ordered to put her into the tower and to execute her with all the condemned.

\- What for? What has she done?

\- I don't really know, my honest word. Ask the Princess.

\- John pondered for a while.

- All right. Where is that tower?

Chapter 25

"I will be burnt! Today I will be burnt! Oh no!" This fatal thought tortured the heart and mind of Ingrid. "So this is the dreadful medieval execution I had seen." She remembered every bit of it – the big flame and the people screaming with pain in the hot embraces of the fire-tongues like in hell. The sight was unbearable. "No, no", - she thought. –People shouldn't be burnt. It is cruel and inhumane. In the 21st century, the death penalty is abolished but I can't return there. I wish I could return home." But alas! She couldn't escape the reality and the reality brought her to the medieval epoch, imprisoned her in the tower for the condemned, and prepared her for the execution. "What for? What crime have I committed? What felony do I have to pay for? Why is the world so cruel to me?" Ingrid was crying and trembling like an autumn leaf on the cold wind. She was beside herself with terror, rage, the medley of feelings and questions never to be answered. "It's not fair. Not fair", dashed through her mind.

-You do-o -n't w -a-a –a -n t to die-e-e, do-o-o y-o-u-u? She had some strange voice behind her all of a sudden. It made her wince and look around. A tall bluish silhouette of a woman stepped out of the darkness and noiselessly neared Ingrid. It was not a real person, merely a shadow menacing to her. The figure emitted some devilish laughter.

Ingrid froze with fear, tears running down her cheeks.

-Who are you? She asked in hardly hearable voice.

In a jiffy two more figures appeared to sight, moving in the darkness and threatening her.

-We are the souls of the executed- executed- exe-cu-ted (echoed in the darkness). We were burnt ten years ago but we sti-i-i-ll rem-e-mber that da-a-y!

Their voices sounded unreal. Those were ghosts. And they were talking to her.

-Tomorrow is your tu-u-urn. You will jo-o-o-in us. Get re-e-a-dy!

One of the blue silhouettes droned and the three of them moved towards Ingrid as if to touch her with their icy skeleton-thin hands. Ingrid felt their deathly breathing on her.

Suddenly something changed in her soul rapidly. She felt some longing for life-so strong that she chased all the fear, collected her wits and dashed to the window. Unbelievable force was leading her. Ingrid merely understood what she was doing. She ran away from the dangerous silhouettes still beckoning her and laughing like devils, broke through the window – the only point connecting this hell of darkness with the outside world - and fell down.

Chapter 26

The window from which Ingrid jumped out was rather high and she would have got crippled or seriously injured or even died... but for John. She fell into his embraces and they both landed on the ground. Ingrid opened her eyes, dazzled with the day sunshine, and understood that she was rescued. Then she grew very ashamed as she found herself to be still lying embraced with John and feeling the gentle warmth of his body.

-Are you all right?

He asked at last.

-Oh, yes, thank you.

Ingrid hurried to jump to her feet and withdraw from John. Then she saw Angelina, Angelina's parents, Edward and Margaret approaching. They were very happy to see her alive. Everyone embraced her heartily and kissed her.

-Thanks God you are alive!

-It is only thanks to John that I am alive. He rescued me from the certain death once more. He is a real hero!

Everyone was expressing gratitude to John and praising him. Soon all the happy people returned home.

People showered Ingrid with questions at once. She was answering fervently and telling them about her misfortunes.

-Who were you talking to before jumping out of the window? John asked. – I heard some voices reaching from the window, - he added.

-Those were ghosts, Ingrid replied.

-Excuse me?

John didn't fancy the answer.

-I said I'd been talking to the souls of the women punished by the Princess about ten years ago. They told me I was to be next to die. That was the last straw. Overwhelmed with emotion, I found some strength to withstand it, some unreal instinct to survive. But the only thing there was left to do was to escape through the window though it was very risky. Anyway, I had no choice and this seemed to be better than burning in the fire. Thus I had a tiny bit of chance to survive and I decided to try it whatever it might be. So I jumped and then you were sent by the Heaven to rescue me. But how did you know I was in the tower?

-Oh, it is a long story. We found this thing that remembered the voices.

-This is my telephone. I lost hold of it when somebody captured me.

-It was Lewis. And Derek helped him.

-Lewis?!

-Yes. We recognized his voice.

John handed her the cell phone. Ingrid turned on the recording and listened. Then it dawned on Ingrid that Princess Olivia had sent the guard to kidnap her and imprison her in the tower. John proved her guess:

-I found Lewis and made him tell where you were. He was acting according to the will of the Princess.

-I didn't do anything to hurt her, I swear, - said Ingrid heartily.

-I believe you. Olivia turned out to be a mean and heartless creature. It's time to put the end to this disaster. I'll tell her there would be no wedding.

-Be careful. She is so treacherous.

-I am not afraid of her. She doesn't deserve your tears, - said John tenderly and wiping the moisture out of Ingrid's beautiful lashes. Then he kissed her and she brightened with joy and happiness.

Chapter 27

The rain was coming down in buckets at night. Cold wind was rushing and whistling through the air bending down the trees, breaking the flowers picking off their delicate soft petals and leaves, flinging them up and down, bringing them into a whirlpool and scattering all around. The sea turbulent and the sky was illuminated with flashes of lightning.

The royal castle looked silent and somber, often displaying the sharp outlines of the roof and the towers in the lightning. Loud thunder was followed by a squeal of a cat somewhere not far from the castle. The thunderstorm lasted till the morning.

At dawn, the heavy clouds were driven away with the wind, the sky cleared out, and the first rays of the warm sun were promising good weather. The violent wind of the night changed to a light breeze sweeping together the scattered petals of the flowers and leaves as if trying to apologize for having damaged them. The birds were singing merrily in the thick branches of trees all in verdure.

The royal family got up late in the morning and had breakfast. After that, the King was busy trying to solve the state problems and to make the people's life better. The range of tasks he dealt with included elimination of poverty and diseases, cleaning the streets of the towns and countries, supplying food and fresh water to the most disastrous areas, strengthening the military forces, punishing the criminals and so on. His intensions to achieve the well-being of the country were shared with the King's nearest people.

All those state affairs had nothing in common with the interests of the Queen. She didn't share the opinion that the King should strive for the wealth and good of the people. She was preparing to celebrate her birthday and invited all the authorities she regarded as useful for her, only the richest and the most respectful individuals. She was giving orders to her servants and guards.

Princess Olivia had nothing special to do that day, so she went out for a walk with a friend of hers. She met Lewis in the garden. He was nervous and frightened.

\- Everything is lost, my Lady. Our plans are frustrated. But it's not my fault at all. It is...

\- Will you tell me what happened at last?

Olivia rudely interrupted him.

\- Oh, it's a trouble, my Lady.

The Princess was growing more and more impatient.

-Well, we set the hut near the castle on fire, Derek and I. Everyone ran out of the castle to bring the water from the river to put out the fire. Then we kidnapped that girl and threatened her. But she had some device with her that could remember the voices. I've never seen such a thing in my life. The gadget remembered my voice and then somebody found it and recognized me. It was the only thing that betrayed me, I swear.

Olivia wrinkled her forehead with irritation.

\- What are you talking about? What's that thing that remembered your voice? It's nonsense.

-This is the truth, I swear. I wouldn't dare to tell you a lie, my Lady. John found me and threatened to kill me. He forced me to tell him where we kept the girl.

\- What an idiot you should have been to tell him the truth! Are you crazy?!

Olivia got into a fury. She was beside herself.

\- Where is she now? Is she already executed?

\- I am afraid not yet, my Lady. But honestly I don't know.

A shepherd appeared in sight with a herd of sheep grazing on the green lawn. They were guarded by a dog accompanying the herdsman. The dog trotted forward and approached Olivia.

\- Are you off your base, Lewis?! She shouted. –How could you have...?

She felt something pulling her dress from behind and sharply turned back her head. She was surprised to see a dog chewing on her glamorous dress.

-Go away, you, trash!

She collected a small stone near her feet to fling it into the dog. The latter disliked her behavior and answered a snarl and a loud bark attacking the Princess.

Olivia swayed in a fright, stumbled and collapsed into a pool of dirt remaining from the night of rain and thunderstorm. Now Olivia's dress was covered with dirt all over. Mud was on the face running down the cheeks and the neck. The hands were smudged as well. The Princess was hurt and wet to the skin in addition to burning with rage.

Chapter 28

In an hour or so, John arrived to see Olivia determined to tell her everything he thought about her mean and treacherous tricks. But on seeing her face pale and all in bruises his anger changed to pity for a while. He asked her what had happened to her.

-Oh, nothing, just trifles. I fell down and hurt myself.

It was evident she was trying to hide something – something that would show her in an unfavorable light.

-So what do you want to tell me?

She asked with an evident feeling of apprehension.

-In spite of my greatest respect and gratitude for you and the royal family, I have to admit that your dishonest actions in relation to my dearest friend Ingrid and me made reconsider my promise to marry you. I am bound to tell you that everyone is aware of your trying to capture and execute the innocent people.

Olivia went pale.

-What are you talking about, John? Who told you this nonsense? Oh, I know, you must have collected this from some envious people who try to ruin our relationship. Don't believe them.

-You are not right, my Princess. The liars are always unmasked and the truth comes to the surface. I can prove my words if needed.

He told her everything he knew about her sailing under the false colors. She pretended to faint –the last thing she could do. The servants hurried to help her and called for the doctor. John left.

The Mother-Queen canceled the wedding preparations to cheer up her daughter.

\- Come on Olivia, take the things on the chin.

\- It's easy for you to say so. You don't suffer.

\- Do not say so, my dear. It concerns every one of us. The wedding is canceled, and that brings disgrace on our royal family.

\- We have to do something about it.

She was dashing to and fro across the room. – I am burning to revenge. I hate them both with every my cell!

-They must die. Then nobody will reveal that the wedding is disaffirmed, - the Queen suggested.

\- But how? What would you do if you were me?

\- I am an experienced woman and I always find the right decision. You'll see.

The Queen looked scheming and enigmatic, her eyes glittering with evil.

-Tell your guards to capture him and her bind them, put them into a boat and leave the boat in the sea far enough from the bank. They will be drowned.

\- A good idea, - Olivia brightened. –You are so clever and so evil, mother!

\- And do you like it?

\- I love it! I'll show that country pauper who I am. And she will regret being in my way. I promise you, mother.

Chapter 29

The first touch of fall was approaching. The sun was not as bright as in summer; the sky became a cold, dark blue abyss overcast with heavy clouds hanging low over the earth.

A single yellow leaf of some tree rested on the carpet of green lawn, accidentally forgotten by the wind. It was the first reminder of autumn and a sign forecasting the change of weather. Soon, this emerald landscape will sink into the cool and moist autumn fog obscuring the scenic view.

Ingrid took up that golden leaf trembling in the breath of wind and twisted it in her hand toying with it at leisure.

-Look what a nice leaf. So curiously carved!

She showed it to John when they were walking in the garden.

-You look so wistful, -he said. –What are you thinking about, my sweetheart?

-Well, it is difficult for me to say, but it seems to me we are not destined to be together.

That news gave John quite a turn.

-Why?

-Because of me, -she answered. –I am the reason of all the troubles. Whoever I deal with, everyone gets into trouble. Ill luck pursues me and you will suffer as well. I don't want to be an obstacle in your life.

\- And you never will. You are the spirit in my heart. I live with the dreams of you, I breathe with the dreams of you, and you are the best what I have. As for the troubles, remember- every cloud has a silver lining. It is not your fault that the Evil exists on the Earth. You are the most harmless creature I know.

\- But it was because of me that you decided to go back on your promise to marry the Princess.

\- Yes, and thanks to you I realized what kind of person she really was. You opened my eyes.

She looked at him. There was so much fondness in the glance of his green eyes that the ice of her self-reproaching hesitation melted. She smiled.

-You are an incredible optimist. Just a minute ago, I was ready to fall into depression, and now I fall in love again. You bring me back to life.

-To fall into depression isn't the worst thing. Someone may fall into a pool of dirt.

He told her the story he heard from one of his friends who had heard it from one of the servants of the Royal family.

Ingrid was laughing.

-So you say she fell down into the mud?

-Yes, I'm telling you, the dog of the herdsman scared her, she lost the balance trying to take away her new dress out of the dog's teeth and landed in the pool of rain water.

-Poor Princess Olivia! - Ingrid said ironically.

-Oh, she deserves it, John answered, - It serves her right!

They went on talking about something in a peaceful and soothing manner walking in the garden near the castle, still unaware of the danger approaching.

Chapter 30

The clatter of iron stirred the air and made John and Ingrid look swiftly around. The sight of five weaponed men whose faces were wearing malice promised no good. Those were Lewis, Derek, Valentine and two more persons John and Ingrid didn't recognize. The newcomers attacked John all of a sudden and captured Ingrid. They took out their swords and so did John who was always ready to defend himself and to protect those whom he loved. They crossed the swords. John was fighting bravely but the aggressors were fierce and the forces were unequal – five against one. Yet one of the Princess' servants who obviously came here to fulfill her wish was busy keeping Ingrid with her arms wrung back. She twitched her lips, cried for help, tried to break away but her hands were tightly pressed like handcuffs by one of the enemies. She was eager to run away from the attacker and help John but she couldn't.

The other four men were fighting against John. It goes without saying that John was a skillful warrior; he knew the sword-mastering techniques since the very childhood. He fought courageously and cautiously, yet luck was not with him that day because the four men joined their forces against him. He was wounded.

-Look out John, exclaimed Ingrid who saw that one of the aggressors was intending to hit him from the back. John looked back and escaped the blow in the last moment. But soon his strength lost him and he was no longer able to withstand the enemies who captured him.

John and Ingrid were fastened together with a rope and put into a boat. The five men left them in the open sea in the boat far from the bank. Now they were at the fortune's disposal – to be precise – at the misfortunes disposal. On that day, the sea was extremely rough. The waves were high and strong. It looked like a sea storm. The two persons were tied together. Previously, Ingrid had had a hope that John would rescue her, and now John needed help, too. He quickly rummaged in his mind in search of a way out, at least something. But he saw nothing, besides he was wounded. They seemed to have no chances for survival. He thought they would die together. Ingrid had the same on her mind. They were both exhausted and wordless. The scream of Ingrid was heard when the waves of the cruel sea turned the boat upside down. John and Ingrid were already in the cold water and seemed to be drowned...

Chapter 31

John and Ingrid didn't remember how they found themselves in a cave. It was almost dark inside. Only the reddish light of the walls illuminated the mysterious interior. Ingrid looked about herself. Everything seemed to be so familiar to her. Especially the small stone with an inscription "This is the door to the future. If you want to look into it, please turn this stone upside down". Ingrid was astounded. "Yes, this is the very same stone. Unbelievable!" she thought.

The groan of John who regained his consciousness and was no less astounded than she reminded Ingrid that they were tied together. John was wounded and needed medical help. Besides, they were both wet, cold and hungry.

Ingrid stirred her hand and felt an acute pain in all her body. The rope was so tightly bound that it was cutting into the skin. Ingrid examined the rope and saw a knot on it. But it was too far from her hands and she couldn't reach it. She bent her head in attempt to unbind the knot trying to do it with her teeth. It took her some ten minutes to loosen the rope. Then John somehow reached the knot with his left hand and slowly untied it. Then they easily loosened the rope and took it away.

-How are you feeling? John asked at last.

-I am not sure whether I am alive or not. Pinch me!

John crawled up to her and embraced her. They were both alive and it was great!

When they got out of the cave, Ingrid was excited to notice the same landscape she had seen there before. The outlines of the modern buildings showed in the distance. They returned back to the 21st century.

-We are at home! At last! Exclaimed Ingrid in elation.

Then she had to explain everything to John. He hardly believed the story, but the surroundings so unusual for the medieval epoch made him believe her.

Then, the two people faced a problem of how to get home with no money, dressed in medieval garments, totally exhausted, cold, wounded, lost in the deserted cave about 80 miles away from the town. John and Ingrid were discouraged. They sat on the sandy ground near the cave thinking.

Chapter 32

After a good deal of thinking, Ingrid remembered at last that she had cell phone – always her help-me-out "friend". It was kept in a water-proof case. She found the list of numbers and ran through the names with her eyes. She found Tracy, one of her friends, and called her. Tracy didn't answer. Then, Tracy called her back.

\- Hi Ingrid, haven't heard from you for ages. Where have you been?

\- Oh, it is a long story. Look, could you be so kind as to give me a lift home?

\- Sure. Is your car broken or what? Just tell me where you are.

Ingrid told her how she had got there in brief.

-What?!

Tracy didn't expect to hear such a story.

-Look, I have no money with me and I am, to put it mildly, a bit in trouble. You'll hear the rest later. Oh, and I will be not alone, you'll see.

Tracy was bewildered.

-Ok, stay there. I'll come for you.

-Thank you. See you soon.

Ingrid was relieved.

In about 40 minutes, Tracy made her appearance near the cave. She was a pleasant-looking Afro-American woman dressed in a short dotty blouse with ends tied in a bundle and some plain jeans. The woman was a bit overweight but pretty in a way. Ingrid didn't consider Tracy to be her best friend, but she was somehow trusting her. Sometimes they went shopping together or enjoyed a cup of tea in a café. Tracy was easy-going and had a good sense of humor. It was easy to deal with her.

Tracy saw a strange picture: Ingrid was sitting on a stone right in front of her, her medieval outfit still soaked with seawater and wrinkled with the bottom of the dress all dirty as the dress was long enough to reach the ground, and her hair once arranged in a gorgeous hairdo now was all tousled and wet. Tracy met her with her eyes wide open.

-Wow! She exclaimed. –Ingrid, you look weird!!!

-There is no time to explain. Please help us, - Ingrid asked for help.

At this moment, Tracy's sight fell on John, also in medieval clothes and with a sword, wet and wounded. He looked very ill.

-Hi! I'm Tracy.

She gave him a faint polite smile.

The answer was a strange language Tracy had never heard.

-Don't talk to him. He doesn't know our language, to be honest, he is a medieval knight and who speaks only Old English.

Tracy's eyes widened with amazement, she kept silence for a while looking at him and then said, -Well, I guess you've had a pretty good adventure, haven't you Ingrid?

-I'll tell you everything in detail on the way back home.

They had to make an enormous effort to help John get in the car. Tracy delivered John and Ingrid to Ingrid's home. Ingrid remembered at last that to take a warm shower and to get changed in comfortable clothes was a great pleasure after all that medieval dirt. Then she went to the shop and bought some clothes for John to prepare him for the visit of doctors. The doctor said that the wound on John's shoulder was a very weird one. But Ingrid didn't dare to tell him that he was wounded with a real sword centuries ago. Who would have believed it! The doctor wanted to ask the young man about everything, but the latter couldn't talk. Anyway John received all the necessary medical help.

Chapter 33

Three weeks passed...

John and Ingrid were having breakfast in the kitchen and entertained a fervent conversation.

-You see, John, there is quite a difference between Old English and the modern language we use. The language has lived a long life since the Middle Ages and changed considerably on all the levels from phonetics to grammar. Some letters used in Old English are forever gone. Besides, many words have changed their meanings. For instance, in Old English, the word "villain" means "servant", but the contemporary people use it in the meaning of "thief", "rascal".

-So it has become negative?

-Yes. But sometimes it can be vice versa, for example, "fame" means "common talk" or "rumor" in Old English. And in our time, this word denotes that someone or something well-known, respected and worshipped by many.

\- What about changes in the grammar?

\- Plenty of them. All the numerous cases have been reduced to only two of them – common case and possessive case. As a result, verbs have lost all the personal endings save for the third person singular in the present simple tense. The declensions of Medieval English are no more used. I think that some changes have been quite good. They improved the language, made it more simple and flexible. Hundreds of years passed since the Middle Ages, and people were constantly changing and developing the language created by their ancestors. Just like a sculptor makes a new masterpiece, people manage to turn a rough grey stone into a sparkling diamond, polishing it all the time, accurately carving all the ribs if this stone and deleting everything unnecessary that can spoil the impression of perfectness. So now we have a magnificent jewel of language spoken in a business-like as well as elegant manner my millions of people all over the world.

Ingrid fervently spoke in Old English about the modern English which was her native. John listened and enjoyed every her word.

-But we must not forget the language of our ancestors no matter how harsh and unpolished it may seem for the people of the 21st century, said John.

\- You are right. By the way, thanks to my knowledge of Old English and my keen interest in the Celtic culture, I had a chance to meet you and we managed not to get lost in the intricate labyrinths of the past.

\- You are the most valuable treasure that I have now, he said.

-Treat yourself to biscuits, replied Ingrid as if to chase away the confusion. Will you have another cup of tea?

-No, thank you so much.

-I see you do not like the food of the 21st century, Ingrid smiled looking at him.

-The food of your time tastes very unnatural and strange. It is almost uneatable. In my epoch, we didn't have such things you eat now. Everything was simple, tasty and useful for health. But this food is like poison for me.

-Yes, the food often includes chemical substitutes that cause harm to health. But we can't do without it. On the other hand, we have the conveniences our ancestors haven't even dreamt of. A hot shower for example. Who would have thought of it in the medieval epoch?

-This is something unreal and good. Now that I have tried it once, it is impossible to do without it.

A telephone call interrupted their conversation. Ingrid took up the receiver and heard:

-Miss Ingrid Armstrong?

-Yes, this is me.

\- This is Inspector David from the police. We've found your car.

-Really?!

Ingrid shone with delight while listening to the details. John was wondering.

-Who was that?

-It was from the police. They found my car!

-A car is a thing rushing on the road so fast like a lightning?

-Well, a bit slower I think.

Ingrid was smiling.

Then they went to the glass corridor leading from the kitchen to the yard. Through the glass, they saw lovely autumn chrysanthemums all in blossom. The pale autumn sun warmed them up and the wind tossed their heads a bit. Ingrid opened the glass door leading to the yard and stepped forward. The smell of faint but sweet and delightful smoke from the autumn leaves filled the air.

-It smells like autumn, said John thoughtfully embracing Ingrid and putting a warm white shawl round her shoulders to warm her up. They were both looking far into the distance beyond the outlines of the skyscrapers and the horizon, their eyes solemn and wistful.

Chapter 34

A large, fluffy, well-fed cat curled itself comfortably on the sofa. It seemed to be sleeping peacefully, head on paws. But a slim, bony hand of a woman stroked the cat's head and hid her long bright red artificial nails into the fur. The cat stirred unwillingly, opened its narrow slits of eyes, purred and devotedly licked the thin hand of the woman with its little rosy tongue.

-Jess, don't you think it's enough for that cat today?

The man sitting near her pretended to be indignant.

-Why?

-Because caressing that cat you are forgetting about me.

-Are you jealous?

Jessica was in a playful mood. She gave a chuckle.

-I think it is time for somebody else to be jealous, replied Sam enigmatically.

\- You mean Ingrid?

-Yes. What do you think she will do when she finds out about us? What will her reaction be?

-Well, pondered Jessica, she will be distressed to the point of tears, poor girl. Her face was bearing an ironical expression. - And I shall have to make up some story to reassure her and make her believe we are friends.

-Why is that?

Sam didn't get it.

-Don't you understand, \- Jessica began angrily, - that we need her in the Company? She is very hard-working and reliable, and a good expert. She can do a lot of things I am not knowledgeable in. It is due to her that the Company is prospering.

-For mercy's sake, Jess, give up that foolish idea. There are no irreplaceable people. We can always find somebody to work for us.

-Right. But we will have to get used to the new person, to study her/his character, abilities and all the weaknesses in order to manage them. And it takes time. We don't have much time for everything. And as for Ingrid, we can read her like a book and easily manage her.

Jessica came up to the looking glass to arrange her hair stroking it energetically with a comb. Suddenly she froze in astonishment with her hand hardly holding the comb at the roots of her hair. Her glance was fixed to the background in the mirror where a beautiful dark-haired woman appeared to sight. It was Ingrid.

-Don't you even dream of it, - she said. –You will not manipulate me any more.

With a gesture of her slim hand, she removed a lock of hair falling down her face. She was also looking into the mirror.

-Oh my God, Ingrid! Is that you? Where have you been all of this time?

Jessica stepped back a little as if there was a ghost before her.

Sam was sitting on the sofa in the corner of the room, also bewildered. Even the cat woke up, stirred, stretched forward its paws and head, and looked around the room with somewhat troubled eyes.

-Ingrid, do not misunderstand us. Let me explain you everything. We didn't mean anything...

-I don't want to hear any more lies of yours because I'm already fed up with it. It's time to put the end to your falsehoods.

-Ingrid, but we are... Jessica began again but Ingrid interrupted her.

-I know who you are. You are lovers. You betrayed me – my beloved man and my best friend. Who could have thought!

Sam and Jessica exchanged glances. Ingrid went on:

-I am here to tell you that I resign.

-But what about the project? Sam intruded. –You were the one to begin it, and you have to finish it. We pay you for this job.

-You didn't think about me when you cheated on me, so why should I care about your project?

And she left the room.

In a week, Ingrid was managing the affairs of a new large construction Company. She was a very good architect. Her office was on the tenth floor, convenient and spacy. Sitting at the table, she was working with a large pile of papers well arranged in folders. A modern desktop computer eased her work. She solved some sophisticated tasks and had a vast field for creative work. When she was tired a little, her eyes rested on the stunning views from the window, the high skyscrapers far away near the horizon and the sea.

John was also hired as the Company employee, a window-washer. The knights were of no need in the 21st century.

Chapter 35

A bright shining morning sent the first rays of the sun into the kitchen where John and Ingrid were having breakfast. Silence was interrupted with the clatter of dishes and their voices.

-Do you prefer black or green tea? Ingrid was preparing a sandwich for herself and another one for John.

\- In the morning, I prefer black tea to green tea, he replied.

\- Oh, that's just like me. I also usually have a cup of black tea without sugar in the morning.

\- I see we have much in common despite the great difference in age, he said.

\- What difference? You are three years my senior. That's all.

\- Let me correct you, my lady, seven hundred three years.

\- Oh surely, I have forgotten about it. How thoughtful you are. And so polite!

\- In my epoch, we were taught to be always courteous and caring in respect of others. But as far as I see, the people of your epoch are rather different. Not only do they demonstrate impoliteness and disrespect, but they also behave rudely and aggressively. In my times, nobody could have thought of using foul language but now it has become a common routine thing to deal with people who are swearing a lot. Such rude and disgraceful manners are provocative, and it goes without saying that evil breed's evil. It leads to moral degradation. People dislike to each other in their hearts. But on the surface, they seem to be as sweet as sugar.

And he took a lump of sugar in his hand. Ingrid was listening to his thoughts with admiration. He continued:

-For example, what do you mean when you say "Good morning!?" You just say so because you are obliged to thanks to your good manners. But you do not mean it is really good.

-Yes, there is an old saying that politeness is half good manners and half good lies, inserted Ingrid.

-That's what I am talking about. In the 21st century, politeness is nothing more than acting and deceit. We pretend to be those who we are not. Medieval people had a strong conviction and strong belief that helped them and guarded their souls against the evil. They were afraid of doing something that would make them fall in the face of the society. But in the 21st century, there are individuals who are not scared of anything. They commit crimes, do horrible things and then go to the church completely sure that all their sins will be forgiven and forgotten. Every next day they continue all the disgraceful activities. What a dreadful time we live in!

Following this unhappy conversation, they both went to work.

Ingrid got used to her new job and made some friends in the Company. The position satisfied her, and the salary was quite good. She worked hard and sometimes she needed some ten minutes or so to digress from the complicated project and look into the window. Her eyes were amazed with the city stretching far in the distance. Meanwhile, no one of the employees suspected that the windows in their Company were washed by a real medieval knight!

Chapter 36

John attended the school of fencing on weekends. He joined the group of beginners but didn't say a word about his medieval experience. Yet he impressed the instructors as being quick-to-learn and skillful. They praised his abilities of mastering the sword and admitted that sometimes he demonstrated the techniques they never heard of. He gave the impression of having practiced fencing for many years. Soon, everyone considered John to be the most successful in the group but for John it was not important. All he strived to was a link between the past and the present. In the Middle Ages he was a knight. And it satisfied him. But when he found himself in the 21st century, his vocation came to nothing. He was a knight and became a window-washer. John didn't want to lose a half of his life, and that school of fencing became a good opportunity for him to practice the technique, to find an area of communication and engagement. He learnt to be a fencing instructor. Later, Ingrid also joined that group.

In the evening, when John and Ingrid were home from work they practiced fencing just for fun. John still had his heavy medieval sword. He didn't take it to the fencing school. Ingrid purchased a sword for herself in some specialized shop. They both enjoyed it and their neighbors often heard some strange sounds like clatter of iron from their apartment. But John and Ingrid kept that secret.

Dealing with swords at home without any protecting suits was a hazardous activity, and John often reminded Ingrid about it, but next to him she was fearless.

-Do not pity me! She said. –I understand that we can't be equal, but let me at least strive to achieve a bit of your skills.

\- You do not realize all the possible danger. Mind it that it is not so easy for you to swish through the air even this light sword of yours for a long time.

John tried to give her all the advantages in the "duel".

-Do not use this technique now, he suggested. –It demands a long time of training to learn to do it correctly. You may hurt yourself. Take care!

-Do not worry about me!

She swayed his warning with her sword which slipped from her awkward hand, made a scratch on her arm and fell down.

John flung aside his sword and looked at Ingrid half with reproach and half with fear for her.

\- Nothing, just a scratch, its ok, she said. Then she sat down into the chair, troubled a little.

\- Let me see it, John demanded.

He examined her arm to make sure that nothing was threatening her health.

\- You know, John began, when you have this red dress on and your hair falls down your shoulders, he continued dreamingly and enigmatically...

\- What? She wondered.

\- You are so beautiful!

\- Really?

Ingrid's eyes brightened.

\- In my epoch, women were not allowed to take swords in their hands. But you look lovely with this in your hands.

\- Please go on, Ingrid was fascinated. –I love it when you talk like that.

\- I have to tell you something very important, said John and his face grew serious.

\- What is it? I am listening to you, my dearest knight.

\- But it is necessary for me to know that you are ready because you have to answer me whether you agree or not.

Ingrid rose to her feet, made a playfully serious grimace, got hold of John's sword left on the floor and put it to his neck.

\- And now, she said pretending to demonstrate her authority over him, if you don't tell me everything, you, the medieval knight, will regret having got into the 21st century!

John admired her imagination and decisiveness. He played into her hands and seemed to be completely defeated.

\- Now that my forces fell and I am conquered by you my mistress, have no way out and acknowledge my awkward position (he knelt before her), so the only thing I can say is... will you marry me?

Ingrid stepped back and lost hold of his sword, amazed by his words. Silence filled the room for a while. At last, Ingrid came to herself and said:

\- When I found myself in the Medieval England and saw you the for first time on the arena fighting fearlessly and violently with that noble knight for the favor of the Princess, sword in your hands, my heart sank and I thought, I wish I were that Princess. I wish he were doing it for me! Oh God, he must be ready to pull the chestnuts out of the fire for that woman."

John was embarrassed.

-What chestnuts?

She laughed. –No chestnuts. It is an idiom that means that a person is ready to do everything in the world for somebody he/she loves.

-And what is an idiom?

-It is a phrase to be understood not literary. You do not consider the meanings of separate words of the phrase but accept a phrase as a whole and remember it as an equivalent to description of some situation or feeling, etc.

-I see. In Old English we had the similar things. But those were called differently.

A little pause followed.

-I agree, said Ingrid and leaned towards him as they kissed.

Chapter 37

Their wedding was a delightful one with lots of joy, flowers, congratulations. John and Ingrid decided to make it a family ceremony, so only the closest people were invited. Ingrid felt it was her day, the day that all the world seemed to be at her feet. And that wonderful day changed to a magnificent evening when John and Ingrid returned home. At first, Ingrid didn't recognize her apartment as everything was decorated with flowers and a path of petals of white roses on the floor was leading to her room which was half-lit with candles in candlesticks on the table. The candles emitted a light but very pleasant fragrance. She looked into the window and noticed that it was closed with the new beautiful green curtains that made the room look romantic. On the bed, there was a huge red stuffed heart of silk cloth with the white letters embroidered on it. She read:

And I need you now tonight

And I need you more than ever

And if you'll only hold me tight

We'll be holding on forever...

-Oh dear, Ingrid was impressed. –Is it for me?

-Everything in the world is for you because I love you.

Ingrid was overwhelmed with emotions.

-You know what I miss most of all? She said.

-What?

-Angelina. She was my best friend.

Ingrid found her cell telephone, searched for her records and chose the fragment of Angelina's reciting the Old English poem of "Beowulf". Ingrid switched it on to hear the voice of her medieval friend:

Hwæt! We Gardena

in geardagum,

аþeodcyninga,

þrym gefrunon,

аhu ða æþelingas

ellen fremedon.

А Oft Scyld Scefing

sceaþena þreatum,

5monegum mægþum,

meodosetla ofteah,

аegsode eorlas.

Syððan ærest wearðа feasceaft funden,

he þæs frofre gebad,

а weox under wolcnum,

weorðmyndum þah,

а oðþæt him æghwylc

þara ymbsittendra

10 ofer hronrade

hyran scolde,

а gomban gyldan.

þæt wæs god cyning!

But John already covered Ingrid with kisses and soon they sank into a delicate passion of the night. And the medieval poem was concluded with a loud applause.

Ende

THE END

