Apocalypse Now
**APOCALYPSE NOW**

Watch and Pray that you may be counted worthy to escape the wrath of God coming.

André Cronje

# **Copyright**

Licensed for personal enrichment and may be used for edification and motivation. No part may be reproduced for profit or resale.

André Cronje © 2020 Copyright

Conceptual Art by André

Special thanks to King James.  
For light and truth come from God.   
So does peace, love, and joy.

# **The Author**

André is a South African born Huguenot descendant, living in Paris, whose books and art exhibit his love, hope, and faith in the living God.

www.About.me/Andrecronje

www.SunshineinParis.Org

Like a potter molds his clay, so he shapes and forms his philosophy on a variety of topics, often poetic, and sometimes dramatic.

# **Your Menue for Disaster**

Copyright

The Author

1. Bittersweet

2. Theater Of Blood

3. Confession Of A Killer

4. A Flight From Hell

5. Live Once, Die Twice

6. A Flood Is Coming

7. The Fish Man

8. Trick Or Treat

9. Dear Facebook

10. Amazon's Pandora's Box

11. Charlie's Angels From Hell

12. Things You Won't Find

13. The Womb Raiders

14.Beauty and Terror

15. Prepare For The End

16.Come Up Here

17. Born Again

18. End Time Facts

19. Which One Are You?

20. You Be The One

21. Apocalypse Now

22. The Battle Of Armageddon

23. The Midnight Call

24. The Season And Reason

25. God's Wrath

26. God Wants You To Know

27. He Is Alive

A Blessing For You

# **1. Bittersweet**

An angel appeared to me from heaven, with a little note I wish I never read. Eat he said, bitter you swallow, though sweet tasting to your lips.

Oh no, bread of sorrow, bittersweet, give me cupcakes and candy, but you, I don't like to eat. I am sick, and my appetite is gone.

Please bread of sorrow, bittersweet, why must I eat? Smile on me with fun and laughter and leave me tender happy with juicy meat.

Oh bread of sorrow, bittersweet, back so soon? Pass me by, one more time and party, life is short and I am living it up.

Oh no, bread of sorrow, bittersweet, it's you again, I thought I told you, to pass me. Not today or tomorrow, come again, perhaps another week?

Bread of sorrow, bittersweet, don't you listen? Who gave you my number? Go next door, and serve my neighbor, but leave me in peace.

Oh, bread of sorrow, bittersweet, what a menace. Spam me not, I have rights you know. Go, clear my space, lest you face the arm of the law.

Bread of sorrow, bittersweet, don't you ever stop? Now will I take you to God in prayer, for you often come uninvited to trouble me without reason.

Oh God of mercy, and of grace, bread of sorrows I am forced to eat. Forgive my sin and my pride. And save me from this trial I'm in. With the wine of joy and bread of love, change my appetite with Jesus' love.

# **2. Theater Of Blood**

What a performance the preacher put up for the crowd. They all the same. Just like that friend of sinners, sitting with drunkards and prostitutes. The other day he turned water into wine at a wedding. Can you imagine? People are drowning, while he walks on water. He even ruined a rich man's pigs' business, when he cast out demons from that maniac. What was he thinking? Now that crazy walks around clothed in his right mind telling everyone God did it. And what's this healing the sick on a Sabbath day? He is messing up our show, he needs to go. Thirty coins of silver and justice will be blind. We checked out his accountant. Would be easy as pie, no math. Come Friday, look for the kiss. All is set, we're not risking another adulterous debacle. This time we will hit the nails on his hands and feet. And center him between those two miserable thieves we caught. That would make a nice cover page for Time to come. Whatever it takes, we need to preserve our traditions and status quo.

Friday came and it was a bloody show. Then the light of the world went out, and darkness fell on the earth. That was God's foolish plan to save humanity. Dead and buried the healer and king of the Jews were laid to rest. All he did was good, but they paid him with evil currency. It was finished. But not God's plan, written and spoken long ago when Hosea said after two days will he revive, and on the 3rd day will he arise and live again. And so it happened when Christ rose from the dead to fully restore eternal life for everyone, who believes in his salvation name. The devils shamed and defeated, but Jesus Christ won his Father's love and attention: This is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. Praise his name and give thanks to God for his gift and grace. Joy to the world a Savior King was born, and peace. Bethlehem star, the bright morning star, you will always shine brighter than the lights in all the world.

# **3. Confession Of A Killer**

I nailed him, he said. Where did I hear that expression before? His claim of his kill, rip through my soul. He shows no remorse, no regret as if he is a mighty opponent worthy to be recognized. Just like some on crusades to clean turn good into evil, nailing the upright wherever they go. They are not shy to show it their hands stained with the innocent blood of people who shines as a light in a dark world. Christ sustained fatal injuries from the nails. And when someone offered him something for his pain, he said no. Because he needed to feel your pain. Did you even know his name? You killed him, who died for you? Did you know that three days later he rose from the dead? Not to take revenge on a world he loved. For the Son of God came to seek and save the lost.

But some say, I nailed him not. Yet your sins cried out for blood and sacrifice so you can go free. Surely his blood was shed for all the world. Freedom from sin, guilt, and condemnation for anyone who believes on his name. Now he turns sinners into saints giving them power over hell and death, they become children of God. Can you hear him, listen, he is calling your name? I died for you that you may be forgiven. No matter what your sin or shame was, on that cross, the lamb paid it all. In his name will the Gentiles hope. In the name of Jesus Christ, whom they nailed and rose again, King of kings and Lord of lords.

# **4. A Flight From Hell**

You are destined for hell like everybody else without exception. Everyone once was on the same flight. What makes this one-way trip so interesting and appealing are the benefits of immediate gratification. Lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life are naturally included. You can have whatever you want, do whatever you want. As long as you do it without getting caught, shamed or killed. No rules, just fun. Your flight was already booked the day you were born, and your course set. The flight will take you anywhere you want to go called Paradise on Earth, but it seldom warns you of an engine failure, fuel loss or unexpected disasters. The pilot is, of course, the lord of darkness. An expert in disaster, lies, and deception. A hell of a nice guy. A party animal, and the chief of evil staff. He promises you anything and everything to get your soul in exchange. It's a bargain you can't refuse and a promise you'll never see. If you do get a bite, you can just taste the salt is missing.

But in steps Jesus, a friend of mine, who gave his life for his sheep. They know his voice, but strangers they will not follow. He is the captain of their soul. With fire in his eyes and a sword in his mouth, he speaks not like the hypocrites of old.

This plane you chose is going down, and your soul is at stake. Let my people go Satan! The battle is on. Sinners scatter in the valley as the lines are drawn. The son of God versus the god of this age. Souls are wasted, and souls are saved. Eternally lost though the cost was paid. The victory cross prevented another airline disaster. Blameless without sin he hung on that cursed tree. Hope turned to misery as he went down in the grave. Death cheered for joy and fear spooked the weak. God knew the end all along. Check the facts and the empty grave. This battle had a resurrection song. He is not here, he has risen. Death where is your sting? God made the way, while you were sleeping Christ died for whoever who will believe on him also never to die. And if you die yet will you live. Now that is a better deal, I am outta here. Where will you go, you crazy it's dark out there? It doesn't matter because I now his light is in me. I once was blind but now I see, a sinner but now a saint. Jesus come live in me.

# **5. Live Once, Die Twice**

To live once is not enough, and to die twice is too much. No one wants to die, but around the world, you can get a job, where you have no choice but to die-die, before you can get your paycheck. But the strong love tough jobs, and refuse to quit, waking up every morning to go back for more. This die-die expression can also be found in the bible. Right in the beginning of Genesis, God said to Adam: If you eat of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, you will surely die, die. Still, Adam lived to be 930 years old, before he died. "Die" is mentioned here twice in the Hebrew text. But translators only penned it once. For it is appointed to all man to die once, and thereafter the judgment. So everyone dies, but not everyone dies twice.

Revelations make it clear that a man will die twice. The first death happens before judgment, and the second death, as a result of the judgment of God. Death and hell itself will be cast into the lake of fire, prepared for Satan and all his angels. But not before death has given up its dead and the sea it's dead, to appear before the White Throne Judgment Seat of God, where each man will give an account for his own works whether good or evil. Everyone both great and small, rich and poor will appear naked before their Creator and Judge, without a lawyer to defend them, and without a priest to speak well on their behalf. Yes, each man will speak for himself, even the dumb, but Christ is an Advocate and High Priest for the believer. Then the books will be opened and whosoever name is not found written in the Lambs book of life, will be cast into the lake of fire alive, where they will burn forever, which is the second death. Thus, the second death is far worse than the first death people die on earth. Because hell offers no fire escape and the second death is final. But whoever calls on the name of Jesus will be saved.

A guy called Lazarus had two sisters, Martha and Mary, who believed in and loved Jesus. Then one day Lazarus became seriously ill and died. Jesus happened to be out of town, doing his Father's business. And even when he received the urgently call, he did not rush back to heal his friend and even missed the funeral. When Jesus finally returned, his friend was already dead and buried for three days. Both sisters were sadly disappointed on his return, and one of them even made a comment: Lord if you were here, my brother would not have died. True Jesus said, but he will live again. Yes, I know, at the Resurrection was her reply. But Jesus responded: I am the Resurrection and the life, whoever believes in me will never die, and even if he dies, yet shall he live.

So, you only live once, without God, but die twice in the end. But if you have died once with Christ, God will give you another life without end. He who believes in me will never die. Stop! Imagine this for a second. People die all the time, but Jesus said you will never die. Will you never die, die? Wait a minute Jesus: Isn't it written that it is appointed for all men to die once? Jesus continued: Even if you should die the first death, you will live again. The second death has no power over the believer who has part of the first resurrection. Beloved, you are blessed if you hear what the Spirit of the Lord is saying to the church. Death is swallowed up in victory. The good news is, that after Jesus wept as his friend grave, he prayed to his Father in heaven. Saying, thank you Father, that you hear me always and that this death is for your glory. So he told the people standing there with him: Roll away that gravestone. But Lord, his sisters objected: He is dead three days and smells like death. Yet they obeyed his instruction, for he who spoke creation into being and breathed life into Adam, became flesh stood before them, the word of God, send from heaven to earth. Lazarus come out Jesus shouted! And silence. Eyes gazing at the tomb, then popping as they see the mummy-wrapped body appeared. Untie him, Jesus said, for the man was going to need a bath and clean clothes too. And when the crowd saw this, they believed in him and praised the God in heaven.

I am he who was dead, Jesus said, but now I am Alive. Why do you look for the living among the dead, the angels said to Mary Magdalene at the tomb of Jesus? He is not here, He has risen. And for 40 days after his resurrection, Jesus showed himself alive to his disciples and others, before he ascended to heaven, before their very eyes. Take comfort, he said. I will not leave you as orphans. My Comforter is with you. He will remind you of everything I said. He who died once for the sins of the world now lives forevermore and will never die again. So will you. Death has lost its sting. Christ promised the abundant life, because you believe in him, who died and rose from the dead. He is the living bread, the bread of life. Jesus is alive, and he will come again.

# **6. A Flood Is Coming**

As in Noah's day before the great flood that destroyed the whole earth that then was, so this present day can we see the reconstructed Ark of Noah now completed (https://arkencounter.com). Then God himself shut the door, as the heavens and the earth burst forth with waters 40 days and 40 nights nonstop. I had great Sunday school teachers who taught me many bible stories that sparked faith in my heart. Of course, Noah and the Ark with all the animals, lions, bears, and the little ants is still my favorite. And Jonah who was swallowed by a whale also got my attention. The preacher was in the fish's belly three days before he was finally spat out onto a beach. Talk about preparing for the sermon of your life. Both these men taught us the importance of faith and obedience and that disobedience has consequences. The future seems like a mystery but it is not really. The book of Revelations does warn everyone. Even Nostrodamus has his own prophecies of the end times. Wouldn't people care to seek for a way to escape? Did you know that 14 years before the sinking of the Titanic a book was written called the Wreck of the Titan by Morgan Robertson with eery similarities. Perhaps a coincidence or a preiminicen? But the proud boasting widely published that not even God could sink the Titanic could have possibly be her doom to a watery grave on her maiden voyage. A real reminder that as mortals we should always revere and fear God, creator of heaven and earth if you have hope in God to live with him for eternity.

A flood is coming, like the world has never seen. A natural disaster, combined with a spiritual eclipse. A flood of evil will sweep through the nations. Where anarchy will rule the day. And because of lawlessness, the love of many will go cold, and the off-screen heroes will be hard to find. Mother Earth has gone into labor. The apocalyptic birth of what is coming is irreversible. Many foresee the obvious signs and ignorantly call it global warming. Many floods around are raising an alarm but not the media has now refrained from showing the increase of natural disasters around the world. We live in a bubble away from disaster. But the nations seem clueless on what to do, to avoid it and to get out of its destructive path. Vanity, why do the nations rage and plot vain things against the Lord and his anointed ones? All the kings are like grasshoppers and the nations are like a drop in a bucket. There are no plan B against the coming wrath of God, except to turn to him and to ask for forgiveness. All flesh is like grass and who can stand in the day of his wrath. For it is wise to fear God by departing from evil. The question remains, 'What can you do to prepare yourself and your family from the coming Apocalypse? When a woman goes into labor, she eventually gets contraction pains before giving birth. Mother Earth's water broke, and she is in labor pain. And when he who resists, is suddenly raptured then the walls will no longer withhold the floods of evil and deception already at work. Will not the birth pains of an aging earth cause the hearts of men to meltdown in sorrow and fear? Revelations warn that even the cosmic heavens above the earth will roll up like a scroll and the stars will drop like leaves in the fall.

Look at the news and listen for this is the time more than any other time in the past, that you will hear people say: We have never seen anything like this, nor have we heard of things like that before. On 26 Dec 2004, the day after Christmas, an unprecedented modern-day tragedy took place. Who could have imagined such a thing, that in less than an hour 300,000 people were swept from coast to coast to their sudden water grave, and cities and neighborhoods completely wiped off the map and destroyed? There was no warning, because no one knew the signs. The Tsunami appeared in the early morning hours while many were peacefully sleeping, and others enjoying a sunrise breakfast on the coastal cities. Without warning the seawater began to reverse backward deep into the ocean. People watched this strange phenomenon unfold before their eyes. They joked and took pictures. Would you have been standing on the beach watching this strange phenomenon and taking pictures, not knowing that seconds later those waters will come back with a vengeance as a killer wave? So will it be in these last days. Life will carry on as normal and then suddenly an event will take place and the doors in heaven will be shut like God did with the Noah's Ark 5000 years ago recorded in Genesis 6. Only Noah, his family, and an Ark full of animals survived. Noah moved with fear, obeyed God to build and prepare for a worldwide flood. Jesus said, when you see these signs you will know the end is near. One couple who survived the modern day tsunami on boxing day gave to their daughter a Noah' boat filled with animals as a Christmas gift. By heaven's grace, this whole family survived the flood just like Noah and his family. Think about this for a moment. Man's response to God's warning will either trigger an avalanche of His wrath to come or enabled His mercy to escape the same and live.

# ** 7. The Fish Man**

Look, Mommy! A fish just spat out that man. If it happens today, would you grab your phone and film or help him? It depends. The media guy would take his shot of fame, the crowd would Instagram the moment, while a few good men would naturally jump in to help this horror looking man that just crawled out of the sea onto the sandy beach. Yip a whale came pretty close and spat him out. Kinda like someone vomiting, not a pretty sight. Nonetheless, on this beautiful sunny day, the beach was packed. There was no text messaging, so I guess afterward the beach was empty, ofcourse for different reasons.

So, is this story real or fiction? Jonah is one of my favorite childhood heroes. A true story of a Hebrew prophet who had no compassion for his gentile enemies. But isn't the God of Israel also the God of all the nations? Well, then it was not like that. Yet God wanted to show mercy to the people of this particular city. So God sends his prophet, who not only had to warn the people with his message, but also show them with this action that God is indeed a God of mercy.

And then there is Jonah. He bought a ticket to sail the seven seas. But Jonah's cruise ship was no love-boat adventure. Nope, instead of 5-star cuisine, entertainment, and fun, he found himself fighting for his life amid rotten fish and stomach acid eating and burning his flesh and skin. And there was no medic or balm to soothe his pain. And after three days, he looked like a Mummy from hell you would rather want to avoid. That was no Instagram moment for sure. No wonder the people repented when they saw him Baywatch walking from the beach like the Man from Atlantis. The news of his arrival echoed through Nineveh, a huge metropolitan city of that time. He also had no sleep for 3 nights. But now he was ready to obey God. He knew the outcome, but he hated the people so much that he did not want them to escape God's wrath to come. He was now fully equipped to give his greatest sermon ever that would shake a city and a nation. If for any reason his message fell short of convincing the people to repent, his horrorific survival tale would add persuasion to convince them that he indeed he was sent by God to warn them of a coming disaster. And they did hear him, and they did turn from their wicked ways. And God did show mercy to that city. God's love for a people, that were not his people, is a message of hope for all nations. May God turn your city and nation upside down that when they see and hear the goodness and the terror of the Lord of the harvest would send his messangers. May the people too cry out to the God for mercy and forgiveness just like Nineveh who repented and was delivered from God's wrath to come. Maranatha, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. So the Spirit and the Bride cry: Come, Lord Jesus.

Like a thief in the night will he come, and in a twinkling of an eye, will they who love his appearing be caught up together to be with him forever to stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Who thought that Jesus would come last night? Or maybe tonight, or perhaps tomorrow morning? The bible says, many were invited to the supper of the Lamb, but they were too occupied with life as normal: buying, selling, marriage, and perhaps preparing for that great big next holiday. Maranatha, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And the Spirit and the Bride say "come, Lord Jesus, come".

Turn to God and ask him to open your eyes that you will know the signs of the coming apocalypse to save yourself and your whole family alive. Take caution, for the people continued to live life as normal until that day God said to Noah "It is time". Watch therefore and pray that you may be found worthy to escape the coming wrath of God A wise man hears and increases in wisdom and knowledge. Buy the truth and sell it not for strong spirits of delusions will go forth and deceive many because they loved not the truth but preferred darkness because their deeds were evil. Signs are not only for direction, and information but are also there to warn strangers and travelers to watch out for things not yet seen. Yes, we can be ready to enter into the Ark with our whole families, if we like Noah find favor with God, and by our obedience to God's word escape the corruption and the lust that is in the world. God is holy and commands men everywhere to repent and to be holy as He is holy. God is merciful and will forgive your sins when you repent. Jesus said I am the way the truth and the life and no one comes to the Father but by me. This is the same Jesus who went around Israel doing good and healing all that were oppressed of the devil. We celebrate his birthday each year even his death on the cross for our sins. But he prophesied his own death and resurrection. And this he did. God raised him from the dead. The promise still remains when Jesus spoke yet again "whoever shall believe on me shall live, and even when he dies shall he yet live, for I am the resurrection and the life". I am he who was, who is and is to come again.

# **8. Trick Or Treat**

Halloween candy, costumes, and casting spells. Everyone invites a demon out for play. Evil turns up good because it's fun and daring. Witches craft their wicked spells to stir hell's quarters with sinister excitement. Because this party night goes deeper down to the Abyss. Demons lose looking for lovers of darkness hiding from the light. It is sacred and a bloody holiday rousing witches sorceress and cults to practice their magic and witchcraft, and every detestable thing God hates. Ignorant or innocent humans on the altar, and curses flying with sickness, accidents, and all kinds of voodoo. Fear is their domain, and evil their common game. Trick or treat here they come walking down the street. But if Satan is your best friend you would want to celebrate this day. But if God is your father, you take pleasure in heaven's glory.

Some believe their magic to be working, but they are listening to the devil's lies. Because now, after watching Harry Potter, Lord of the Rings, and other Scary movies glorifying witchcraft, many have become hypnotized by spells, fear, and the lust for demonic powers. Are you also dull in hearing not seeing evil as wrong? Don't you know that the gospel truth will set you free from lies and deception? Fear and panic attacks come from the devil, but you have not received a spirit of fear, but of love, power, and a sound mind. Fear not for Jesus is a rock and greater is he who is in you than he who is defeated roaming this world to devour. There is hope for the believer, and curses can be broken by the power of Jesus name. Christ destroyed the darkest powers, hell and death have lost its keys. You know that the tombstone of Jesus rolled when Christ rose again. Death has lost its sting now you can sing hallelujah. So these signs follow them who believe: They cast out devils, heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, and raise the dead.

Don't be conformed to this world, and don't dress like Satan alias Santa Clause. Same four letters, but different outfits. Should you continue to celebrate this evil day which God hates but the devil's love? You may think it is cute when kids dress like the devil or resemble some kind of evil. But when they act like the devil, you realize they never put off that suit. But some argue that their kids dress as angels. Remember demons' ones were angels too before Lucifer's party turned rebel against God. Don't be surprised, but Satan often comes to men as an angel of the light too. Tell your kids the truth about Halloween and Santa. When evil temptation comes knocking at your door resist it by the power of the Holy Spirit living inside of you. People used to put crosses on their doors to keep count Dracula away. You have been clothed with Christ. You use the name of Jesus. That's your power and authority. Jesus has nothing in common with Satan. You are the salt of the earth, but if the salt has lost its taste its good for nothing. Trick or treat, you can keep your candy and your evil spells. It has no power over God's children who walk in the light. So as children of the light shun evil. Resist the devil and he will flee. Put on the whole armor of God and keep standing. For the light shines in the darkness and darkness cannot overcome it. Put away the deeds of darkness that the light of Christ may shine through you. You have nothing in common with darkness. And every day belongs to God, but some celebration parties are the devil's dance floor, and your feet are moving to the rhythm of his beat, yet you will not dance to the music of David's harp in God's house to please the Lord. My beloved is not the spirit of the Lord. Christ is still the greater one in you if you abide in him, and he in you. You have died with Christ and are a new creation. You died yet you live. Jesus said I am the good shepherd and my sheep hear my voice and will not follow that of a stranger. Yet the Bible warns us of false prophets and evil shepherds who lead the people astray even to celebrate evil. Come out and be separate yourself from those who still cling to evil and its schemes and touch no unclean thing. God wants his children to set apart from the world's pleasures and powers? You are a peculiar people, a holy nation a chosen priesthood?

So what can you do? Hide in the basement with the lights off? Of course not. Let your light shines in the darkness for darkness cannot overcome it. Halloween is the one day a year when neighbors come to your door expecting to receive something. So give them what God has given you! You are the light of the world. Let your light so shine among men that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven. Put on love as a shield that the truth spoken may work the righteousness of God. And put on the full armor of God for your fight is not against flesh and blood, but against the powers of darkness and the evil forces at work in your city and nation. For this reason, Christ Jesus came into the world to destroy the works of the devil. You are a warrior king to rule and a priest to minister grace. You are free. Remember that Jesus has given you his name, and in his name demons flee. Whatever you bind on earth is bound and whatever you loose is loosed. You have been given greater authority to trample on serpents and demonic powers. Jesus said rejoice not that demons obey you when they are cast out but rather rejoice that your name is written in the Lamb's book of life. Is your name in that book then you have eternal life? His name is above every other name. In the name of Jesus, devils were cast out of the oppressed and the sick healed. It was in faith in his name that made you born again. Jesus is Lord. Walk with him walk in faith pleasing God. Walk in love, for love is from God. God is love and he is perfect who causes his sun to shine on all men, both good and evil. You do the same.

# **9. Dear Facebook**

We've been friends for a while and you often make me smile. But lately, you keep knocking at my door. It seems someone is playing the fool - Facebook's War. Now you have offended me, again. More than once, actually. The first time you killed me. I died that day. I wanted to rage, but I am kept my cool. I did not even have a chance to say goodbye. It was not Facebook suicide you know. So many friends yet so few like, love, or laugh. To think you care or even know my name. You remind me of Alexis. She is quite the A-i. I know it's silly, over a billion facebookers, half aren't even real. Faceless cowards, some, who scheme and abuse from hidden rooms in darkness. Not on this platform you don't. Facebook is a medium that record names, faces, and activities. And like many companies will offer you cookies for your appetite. But be aware, lest you sell your soul for a morsel of bread. For there are men inside that Trojan horse, who lie and wait for open minds, in the sleep of the night. Now, Face another Book. One where angels record names, faces, and deeds of all kinds of men. Yip, privacy matters is public domain, when Wicky- Leaks yell your name from the rooftops and city scrapers. Either you will Face the Book of life and see paradise, or Face the Book of the law and its judgment. Either way, like a black box in flight, it records every word and deed, good or evil, and it will be opened, after your death. But that's not the end. For men who overcome dark temptations will be rewarded not with cookies or candy, but with crowns of life and brand-new names.

But show and tell, is between you and God. And you know, not only can he keep a secret, but he also has the power to wash away your sin and shame. Jesus friend of sinners turning water into wine, be my friend and save me too. But wait there is more. Noah built an Ark. The sand ran out the hourglass got full. And because of sin, the world would not cruise with love and truth at the helm, or at the foot of the cross. So God was forced to start all over, with a giant zoo and a crew of eight.

So this social platform is renowned and from time to time has turned into a giant boxing ring. Where opponents would throw punches with glove-less words, wrestling ideas that challenge the conscious and the deceitful heart. But common to man, they always push the limits, walls, and boundaries. You have to face it, where there are winners, there will also be losers. How far can you go before it's too far? How much can you hide and not get caught? How low can you go and still be on top? The golden rule is this: Do unto others what you want them to do to you. But instead, we take selfies of ourselves or pictures of everything else, missing out on the most important thing in life. But God is not like that you know. He showed you love is gentle like a dove. When they bruised him, he didn't fight for his rights or crown. Did he cry treason when he was kissed and betrayed by a friend? Did he sue them for dimes and dollars when Pilate washed his hands and Nero found nothing worthy of death? But often perverse men who profit from crime uses their knowledge of good and evil to push through crooked plans and questionable agendas. Instead of arming the innocent to fight back and subdue the attacker, they roll out the tanks poking holes with lies and speaking evil of what is good. Hiding demons in textbooks teaching kids and students critical thinking is hate speech. But if someone is awake and alert, he can eliminate the threat and save the day. But the walking dead no longer wants his neighbor to be the local hero. They rather want men to be passive, on medication, open-minded to every kind of doctrine, demon, and deception. Don't you know there are false prophets and teachers who teach heresies, and lies? They have no intention to keep the truth or care for your precious soul. You have a choice, to go one way, or the other. If you love darkness you will hate the light. That is hate, but love reproofs, to heal not to condemn. And to remove the sting of death, it will hurt, but you will be OK in the end. Not so for many who love their dark rooms and shady deals. For them, the good cop is the bad guy. But you must choose. Whose side you on? Either you side with crime, or you stand for justice. But don't lose your humanity in trying to slay the beast. 666 is his number but don't take that mark, or you'll be damned forever. You need love and a lot of patient endurance if you want that crown of life.

Having said that, are you now building an Emporium, by oppressing those whose religious, political, or social opinions differ from your atheistic future, with subtle bullying and scare tactics, crying hate speech, or violation of standards, when it is nothing but fair speech, and goodwill? Does not your standards push you to violate laws of human rights by monitoring, deleting, harassing, and silencing the ones who are not confused, from protecting values, and freedoms that made a nation great in the first place? Using common sense, and freedom of expression is healthy communication and acceptable, but forcing rainbow views, agendas, and ambitions that violate, disrupt, and destroy values, opinions, and mindsets, that's wrong. You may think it is old fashion, but have you seen the latest trends? Is the prevention of sharing information that educates and informs others of things happening around the world, not anti-social? Bending wills to what is contrary to normal behavior, which is abnormal and wrong. It's like the enemy cutting off vital communication that could save lives when others are warned to avoid dark dungeons where dragons like to hide and play. But sadly, the watchmen on the towers are censored and warned not to sound the alarm when they see the enemy lurking. Even those who keep to themselves in search of the truth that sets the captives free are hashtagged and alienated by the push of a button. Of course, not everyone will be happy when you spoil their party. But some may find comfort knowing they are alive because you said something.

Can a man serve two masters and still keep both of them happy? Either you will love the one, and despise the other, but no one can please both if one is dark and the other is light. I shared a video post about a girl who felt sexually harassed when a transgender man entered the girl's locker and stared at her while she was getting dressed. Immediately, my account was locked. I had to go through a rigorous security check identifying the faces of my friends which was really creepy. Then I was forced again to change my password for probably the fourth time in only a few weeks. There was nothing wrong with the video post, except what is sinister with our society today. He, she, they, them and us, is - am - are something other than what you see and know to be true, and therefore you are wrong to be right about who they are because they think themselves otherwise. Can you imagine describing your attacker to the Police? No one can force opposites to be the same. Otherwise, we become the Ai's - heartless people without souls, callous and cold. And you want peace and love when you can't even be kind and respectful to all people? Love is not blind, and peace comes with a price. Do you now block and delete to silence men and women created in the image and likeness of God, from voicing their just concerns? The school already blamed the girl for being the problem. Disregarding her safety, privacy, and right to a safe place within the gates of education. You can easily forgive them, and love others, but educated men, priests and medical professionals who know better, those hypocrites, knowing facts from fiction, lies from truth, without a red face, they agree in silence, and openly protest, to inflict sorrow on them who holds dear truth and justice. Make no mistake. Good and evil don't agree. Night and day are separated for a reason. If this is your standard, it is because you have fallen short from the glory of God like all men in need of the savior, Jesus Christ. But I was happy to see that post reappear on my wall, not knowing I may add, if these or any other post are now restricted, and only visible to me and to a selected few.

They who are afraid of doing evil are wise in doing good. People are not only confused about gender issues but also about many other things. Perversion is the new moral fashion. Whatever is Sodom like is Gomorrah's cup of tea. But the sin of those two cities was worse than an oil spill. The wickedness of that generation was unprecedented. Sexually disillusioned and outright evil with bestiality teaching kids to embrace a world of lust and demons with magic and pride while parading themselves on the highway of self-destruction. So fire and brimstone rained from heaven and they had no umbrella. It does hurt a community, but God's wrath worked healing to the land. Nothing escaped except Lot who found grace with God and his family. It was headline news then and now, to warn everyone who loves life, to love God, and not to love ballroom dancing with Sodom or to eat Gomorrah's candy. Two-thirds of the world's population will be destroyed during the Apocalypse coming, but why? Why is God angry with the wicked, every day? Because he sent his love and they hated his name. They even laughed at his plan and refused his hand. To them who perish the cross is foolishness, but to whoever believes, it is life from the dead, forgiveness, and mercy. It is not God's will that anyone should perish in their sin, much rather that all be saved through Jesus Christ who died and rose again to life on the 3rd day. God is not the author of confusion. Don't turn good into evil. Think, to be a god over fools is not wise. The God of heaven is upright and doesn't lie. Has he spoken and will he not do it? If he promised, it will surely come to pass. It is Satan the father of lies who comes to kill, steal, and destroy. But resist that devil in Jesus name and he will flee from you. Fear not man who have no glory, but fear God who is able to cast both body and soul into hell.

Mark my words for they are life to all that will keep and practice them with a sincere heart. We all deal with issues. But we need to be bright and to walk in the light. If you hear God's voice and listen, then will he show mercy, heal, and pour out on you his Holy Spirit? The truth will set you free. Be kind and love. Because you too were once in darkness, and an outcast, but now through Christ Jesus the beloved you have been accepted and welcomed into his kingdom and glory. So my friend, with great power comes great responsibility. I'm praying for you.

# **10. Amazon's Pandora's Box**

I made my peace, now I will release,

the beast in Amazon's Pandora's Box.

What's inside? Open up!

It may not be what you expected.

Hidden from public sight,

crawling in the dark of night,

a looming thief, or perhaps a robber?

But who would dare to kill a bear,

If no one writes to tell the story?

So let's rap and pack that pretty box?

It comes with a mojo and a smile,

Hush-hush, why the secrecy?

Stop beating around the bush.

Show and tell, but don't cast a spell?

Let's open Amazon's Pandora's box.

What will you find? Happiness?

Depends on what's inside.

Don't be surprised when truth cuts through the lies.

It's a shame when writers alive and well,

have to beg and claim,

for lost books and stolen names.

A loss of income, but how much?

Like ghost riders in the wind,

they roam the haunted jungle,

billions of revenues lost each year.

But now Book tango's cha-cha-cha with Google play has ended,

Stop singing Amazon's the Beast and turn down that music.

But they would not, like hyenas to a carcass.

If you have made a mistake correct it. No shame.

But no, they like to feast of ghostwriters' ashes,

licking up the blood of slain authors still alive,

to fill up their silver rotten coffers.

For a dollar and a dime, someone profits from crime,

Pontius Pirates five star cruising the seven seas,

while authors drown in penniless tears.

Fact or fiction it's not clear.

But check the news it will appear,

Something sinister will disappear.

And no need to be Catholic, Orthodox,

or a knight in shining armor,

to slay that dragon in Amazon's Pandora's box.

Some authors can't afford publishing houses,

and so they google play in Amazon's jungle.

The platforms are good for both sides,

but greedy beast feast on secret sales.

Support real authors and let them know,

you bought their book from whatever web.

That they too may continue to live and write,

with love, peace, and joy to everyone.

# **11. Charlie's Angels From Hell**

Holy Cow, they did it again,

whispering sacrilege at the funeral parlor?

Show and tell how to intoxicated

Chanel with the scent of death,

funneling evil artistically without a spell.

Comical they poke obtuse holes,

To curse on sacred land,

minds aroused with anarchy.

And with sticks and stones

they potter craft to invite,

Charlie Hebdo, dead and gone.

Like a haunted ghost

their demons party and cartel,

Burning unholy incense with pressing Tabac,

Public and proud they assault,

With insults and injuries,

Using blunt objects of democratic speech

to spread hate that contaminates

lost souls darkened by the hour.

What are they thinking,

for crying out loud?

Mohammed, they laid to rest,

Now mocking Christ, the saving

King of the Jews.

Wicked and nasty, they post to shame.

Claiming innocence while horse riding

liberty and the press.

What are they exposing,

playing immoral lawless games?

Sounds like Lucifer evil to the core,

To stain and profane,

the sacred and the holy,

Fearing no one.

Not even God on judgment day.

# **12. Things You Won't Find**

No friends or comrades,  
no party or bar,  
no rest or calm,  
no crime or dime,  
no shops or malls,  
no police or 911,  
no drink or drunks,  
no food or fats,  
no justice or law,  
no heroes or history,  
no politics or protests,  
no sport or channels,  
no medicine or cure,  
no family or trees,  
no holiday or work,  
no escape or bail,  
no light or candle,  
no happy hour or end,  
no uber in or taxi out,  
no good thing, you will find in hell.

Jesus went to hell. Sin were the cause. But God who is just, would not condemn an innocent. And so God raised Jesus from the dead, just like he said. Don't listen to liars. Read the report for yourself. It's true. Over 500 eyewitnesses saw him alive for forty days after his public death and burial. Play twist with Santa and it spells Satan. Ho, ho, ho! he may fool you again. He ain't called the deceiver for anything. But Jesus rebuked him, cast demons out, and made a public spectacle of principalities, and powers, as he took possession of the keys of hell and death, when he rose from the dead. Some may laugh and joke. But you don't want to take the highway, to hell. You can hardly stand the burn of a heatwave. No! No hero will come to your rescue. Fans will be lost forever. It is a place of torment. If you can't face hell on earth, or the heat in the kitchen, how will you endure hell, fire, and brimstone forever? Jesus said, come to me, and I will give you rest. He surely will.

What happened to Jesus after his resurrection, is no mystery either. For 40 days he appeared alive to his followers, before he ascended to heaven on a cloud to sit at the right hand of God, till he comes again. You know he said: I will be back. You believed the Terminator. Believe Jesus too. He now lives to intercede for everyone who comes to him before God's Holy Throne. And he continues to write names in the Lamb's book of life. He went to prepare a place for those who believe in God, and in him. Jesus is the way, the truth and doesn't lie.

How can you be sure of your place? By faith in him alone. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whoever believes in him will never perish. God did not send Christ to condemn the world, but to save the lost. That is why he was called a friend of sinners. He rescued prostitutes from certain death, thieves, and murderers, they all found a second chance. Friend, don't let the devil lie to you. He may throw you a party, and give you gifts, but he will take you down with him. There is no other name by which man can be saved, but by the name of Jesus Christ alone. Jesus will welcome you into his kingdom if only you will accept his love invitation. If you do pray with me now: Lord, I accept, and believe that you are the way the truth and the life. Jesus save me. Now the bible says when you believe, get baptized for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will be saved.

# **13. The Womb Raiders**

One hundred percent of all aborted babies die before their time. That was until I saw aborted babies that survived the trauma of medical genocide. ( _https://humandefense.com/meet-born-alive-abortion-survivors_ ).

The tiny life in the womb raked prematurely by medicine and science before the baby's umbilical cord can be cut and clipped by loving physicians and midwives. There is no blue or pink. Only a red stain wiped away in the whitewashed Kampf chamber. No one stands in silence, no priest for prayer, nor any congratulations wishes. Only a counselor to pad your back and send you away empty-handed. The cry after a slap on the bum won't be heard. Welcome into the world with smiley faces, this was just for good luck. You will have many more of these as you grow up. Now that we have your attention, let's clean you up and put you to rest safely in your mother's loving arms. She will be your friend for life. Dad too will show you the world. In happy days and sad ones, your parents will always love you. They the reason why you are alive. They might have been scared, but they were happy to see your day. And because they did not cave to the notion that children are a pain, they carried you till you could run free on your own. Big families are still the grand prize. It's greed and hate that kill the little ones. Love will always welcome another. Look at China. Over a billion people. Are they starving? No. Who feeds the birds and animals of the earth? Your heavenly father does all of these things will he not take of you and your family?

Sadly, with every abortion, this love, and compassion are ripped even from the hearts of those who used to care. Whoever wants to join the army, the police, the medical field, or fire brigade, has this call of duty and a love for fellowmen. Leaders, lawyers, and politicians start out the same but there is a demon on the way with an enticing offer for gain and power. You know the saying money blinds the eye, but truth is an eye-opener. Who sold the family's birthright to corporations who now turn physicians into doctors of death? Satanists are prosecuted by the law for slaying cats and goats for their unholy rituals, while these licensed to kill professionals are presented with a "Get out of jail" free card. A miracle in a womb is no magic wand. Nor is a mother's womb a tomb. It is the Creator's room, where he forms, and fashions tiny little miracles from a small seed, but now have been explored and broken into by Womb Raiders. You bet there are treasures to steal. Kings and queens, professors and artists, and the list goes on whom the world will never see or hear. For there are doctors who act as the Reaper, scraping the womb, ripping legs and arms into tiny parts big enough to add a price tag. And like dogs for a bone, they profit from indirect sales and goodies while their oath to save lives soak in infants' blood.

These womb raiders wear sponsored badges of honor killings, long enough to be an umbilical rope around their own necks. Their obstinate executions make the Mafia look like boys on the block, and Isis like boy scouts in comparison. The Mammon ties between Science and Medicine have been the cause of the world's largest holocaust. But it is a tiny drop into the abyss of death and destruction, of the Apocalypse. They honor themselves, but not in God's eyes, they can't. They own the killing fields of infants. Not even all the wars in the world have seen so much blood and bones. For the honor of a warrior is to die in battle laying down his life for those he loves. But these medical-certified men, use tools as cold as their hearts and a seared conscience. For 30 pieces of silver Judas Iscariot sold the Messiah, to religious hypocrites. The cursed money was stained with blood. He healed the sick, but they complained. He raised the dead and they shut their doors. He only did good, but still, they crucified the son of man. Have you become a medical hypocrite with an oath to save a life, except when you can profit blood money? Cowardly they whisper no words to speak up for the babes in the womb in fear of losing payroll or static-status, not fearing God's wrath to come? Have you taken an oath of silence, when the blood of the innocent cries out to God? And to expand their market dominance and superiority these legal drug lords are always in the market to explore uncharted territories to find more sustainable resources by regulating laws. More revenue means salary increase, bonuses, and greedy investors.

So where do they go? To the boardroom and secret chambers, where they plan big and dream to reach the stars where God dwells? But no, their dreams will drag them down to the abyss if they repent not. Into dark spaces and secret chambers, they consult with principalities and powers that be. First on the moon means visibility and all the social benefits and media that accompany it. If the strong are not beatable you look for the weak. If adults don't buy into your product you find their kids. But to uproot good values, and belief, they decided to start small. Kids have become their subtle battleground of Psychiatric manipulation and LGBTQX infusion. The war for mind control and body manipulation has changed gears. Spoil the child to boil the pot. Their lust for money has infected them and is spreading like a bloodsucking virus. Count Dracula may scare you, but he 's in fear of the light and the cross like all devils. We are a sick society in need of healing, repentance, and forgiveness. Everyone has sinned. We all fall short of God's glory. There is no one righteous. Dependent on the seriousness of a disease, an infected person needs to be quarantined less the disease spreads to other individuals or even parts of the same body. Life is the same. This is scientifically proven and a medical fact, so often ignored. The declassification of sicknesses has allowed the spread of disease and quantum-sized the infected. Only a small portion of salt is still keeping humanity from rotting to its core. Hypocrites they are for passing laws against street drugs while they themselves are pushing drugs in plain sight onto ignorant subjects who can't wait to take their next happy pill. How many healthy people do you know who have been labeled "chronic for life" attached with a heap of mellow-out medicine? Turning active people into vegetable zombies and suicidal champions because of the fear of death if they stop using pills that will not cure them. They are no patients for life, and fellow citizens of a drug trade that is rigged with kickbacks and special rewards for outstanding performers. At least drug addicts have the notion that they need to get off the stuff before they crash and burn.

The law should protect but now the law allows. Medicine should heal, but now they steal. Science should reveal and discover but now they go dark and undercover. And all of these; the law, medicine, and science are good but wicked men shifted their head office to the temple of God and turned it into a marketplace for a profit. That is why Jesus made a whip and drove out the thieves and robbers from the holy place. No one can worship God and mammon. Either you will love the one and hate the other. The law must protect. But if the law is funded by men with a Hitler ideology, they be killing Jews and think they are doing God a service. Have you lost your humanity for a paycheck? Washing your blood stained hands while people thank you every day for saving their lives? It doesn't profit that way. You need to come clean under God's law of kindness even in the womb. Only a fool would say there is no God, right, with the same breath God gave him to breathe? Can Science, Medicine, and Politicians wash their hands and hide behind a humanistic law? Can any man excuse himself before God? He who created the eye, will he not see? And he who created the ear will he not hear the outcry of innocent blood even if there is no public outcry? Will you cry for your rights but look the other way when it comes to darkroom killings? People everywhere lock their doors in fear of crime, while some recklessly pride themselves with an open mind policy. Hypocrites for being so hospital having open borders without walls yet hide themselves behind armored gates and strings of security policies. With a conscience seared some politicians show their support for power. Greedy Corporations support it for profit. From liquid assets to liquid ailments, prescribed, promoted, and sponsored by the beast with many heads. There is a reason why dragons and humans don't coincide.

But where there is a giant corporation defying the simple with fear, there will always arise a simple one, anointed of God, who in the name of the Lord will speak and declare the end of these entities who enslaved the masses with fear, lies, and deception. For your fight is not against flesh and blood. And your weapons are not man-made, but mighty through God to pull down strongholds and to cast down the imaginations that exalt itself against the knowledge of God. Taking every thought captive to the obedience of the word of God. For his thoughts is not your thoughts. His ways are higher than yours.

The same power that took Christ up a mountain and showed him the kingdoms of the world with a promise. Bow down before me and all of this will be yours. The world can be celebrating just because Jesus said: Get behind me, Satan! as he went to cross. Dead and buried, he went to the grave and to Hades down below, and took the keys of hell and death, and rose again on the 3rd morning? This is the good news of the gospel story. But selling one's soul for fame and fortune is nothing new. Esau gave up his birthright for a pot of soup. Judas did it for a few pieces of silver. Many over the ages have done the same and despised the most precious gift God gave to them and the world. The life and light of Christ his son, the only way to the Father's heart and presence. Christ will return as King of kings to rule the nations with a rod of iron. There will be justice and there will be the truth. And the little voices that have been silenced will cry for joy.

Christ did not come to condemn but to save the world. All have sinned. Every one of us, in need of salvation, and to turn back to God. He came to save us from a life of self-destruction to forgive and to cleanse our hearts and a guilty conscience. Will you now despise the goodness of God and his long-suffering towards you and not respond to the invitation? How else will you escape God's judgment, if you have no Advocate in heaven or merciful High Priest who lives to make intercession for you? Come now God has a free gift for you. Though your sins be red as scarlet, he will wash you white like snow. Jesus said I am the way the truth, and the life. He is also a merciful savior and knows your name and your pain. If you have been guilty and are ashamed, he will wipe away your tears and comfort you in all your fears. Jesus lives and that is why, if you believe my message, you will experience God's love for you. He is greater than your past or present sins. Ask him now, whatever you want, and listen, he will answer you.

# **14. Beauty And Terror**

Countless prophecies in the Bible already have come to pass with German precision, and with Japanese miniature detail. Shall we not look at it more closely? Blessed is he who reads, and they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein, for the time is at hand. The book of Revelation has 3 major divisions, chapters 1-5, 6-20, and 21 to 22, which can be divided into smaller parts. Chapter one starts with the revealing of the son, who was dead, but now is alive and well, standing before John in all his glory. Chapters 2 and 3, are the time period of grace to the gentiles. That is where you are at right now, followed by many comings. The coming rapture of the church into heaven, when the Lord will say: Come up here! in chapters 4 and 5. More in particular to the five wise virgins, for the foolish five who did not watch and prayed, were left behind. And when he who resists is taken out of the way, then will come the revealing of the antichrist, and the false prophet by his side who will force the world to worship the Beast and to receive his mark of damnation. This takes place in chapters 6-18 when the coming wrath of God is poured out on the sons of disobedience, not reserved for his beloved. Followed by the second coming of Christ in Revelation 19, when every eye will see Him, even they who pierced him. Then in chapters 20, he will reign as King of kings and Lord of lords for a 1000 years before the coming Judgment of the dead and the living. And finally, in chapters 21 and 22, there is coming a new heaven and a new earth with a new Jerusalem without end.

Revelations will unleash a brand-new reality show. One that will keep people glued to their mobile phones and television sets. Anxious and afraid for updates and news of what will happen next. Family, friends, colleagues, and strangers will not only be watching the live-action unfold on screen, but they themselves will become starring actors in this true-life drama as the script unfolds verse by verse, and chapter by chapter as it is written by God in Revelations 6 to 19. This reality show will take place in real-time, over seven years, and many men, the brave, the rich, the poor, and kings included, will find themselves in terror, helpless, and in total despair, not knowing whether they will live or die. Sigh :( It is coming! And every heart will melt, and all the hands will be feeble, and every spirit faint, and all the knees will be weak as water. Behold it is coming and will surely come to pass says the Lord. Ezekiel 21.7

John, what did you see? Tell us, is it true? Did you see him? Tell us, what did you hear? What John saw, shook him. What he heard startled him. Faithfully he recorded what every word and vision. He saw Jesus alive. Alive, in all his glory. He heard his voice like the sound of many waters. I Am, the First and the Last, the Alpha and Omega, the Beginning and the End, the Almighty. His hair was white like wool and his eyes like a flame of fire. His feet were like bronze as if it stood in a fiery furnace. He would see Christ twice. Once standing in the midst of his church, and the second time, at his second coming riding on a white horse with a double-edged sword coming out of his mouth. Clothed in a white garment dripped with the blood of those he has slain. And on his thigh, the names written: King of kings and Lord of lords. It was such a fearful sight for John and he fainted like a dead man. But Jesus touched to wake him up that he may write down the end of days before it all begins. He saw many things after that even the Throne Room of God, and the wrath of the Lamb to come. And in the end a new beginning with a new heaven and new earth purified by fire, where God himself will live to the joy of all nations and people.

The coming Apocalyptic Horse Race has only four riders. The first to cross the starting line will be the Antichrist riding a white horse of peace, followed by the red camel of war and the greyhound of famine, with the black pony of hell and death on their tails. Thus, will peace race off the earth till Christ returns on his white Stallion. Is the book of Revelation a mystery too difficult to understand? Isaiah's response to the people in his day was: It is because there is no light in them. But you are not in the dark when the light of Christ shines in you. For you have the unction of the Holy One and need not that any should teach you. He will show you. God has also given the church the gift of the five-fold ministry. Evangelists, preachers, teachers, prophets, and apostles are all his instruments to build, and establish his church to maturity. He will reveal to you the things that were, things that are, and things that are to come. The Apocalypse, in reality, is a book of beauty and terror. It's quite the opposite of Beauty and the Beast where the beast is loved and accepted, like Planets of the Apes that fantasize bestiality. But he has given us his Spirit, and by his word, we have this power to escape the corruption that is in this world through lust. The book of Revelations is filled with historical truths, poetic symbolism, and even cryptic revelation, which give the church a detailed prophetic end-time vision. But the world cannot receive it, for it has not the Spirit of God in them. But what about the predictions of Nostradamus? Some hail him as a Doomsday prophet, and indeed the news of looming wars and destruction of any kind cause a cold chill, and fear in the heart of men, who only longs for peace and safety. His predictions offer no hope and no peace in the end. Revelations, however, provide hope for some and judgment for the rest.

Spiritual things are spiritually discerned and cannot be carnally discerned. Inspired men of God wrote down the words of God, visions, and dreams they received, revealing God's will from Genesis to Revelation. In everyday terms, the Apocalypse is the Revelation of what is hidden inside Pandora's box. It is not the only book predicting an epic finish to a world in rebellion towards its Creator. Daniel, Isaiah, Ezekiel, and many other prophets, even Peter, and Jude wrote about the terror events and the earth that will be destroyed by fire. No, it is not global warming as some scientist wants you to believe. But things are heating up. And love is growing cold. And though the seasons will never end, the extreme climb or fall of temperature, will create many catastrophic disasters. It is no secret - God wants you to know. The Lord said, Ask, and I will reveal to you great and beautiful things you know not. Son of man, you now have been given unprecedented insiders information as to the will of God, to understand what John his beloved apostle saw. Blessed is he who hears, he who reads, and who keeps this prophecy, for the end time is near. And in the end, there is a reward, for each and everyone who endures. Amen.

Daniel's end-time vision had been sealed up until the time of the end, but Revelations is the unveiling and how the end will unfold before your very eyes. Prophets like Isaiah, Ezekiel, Jeremiah, and many more prophesied in detail the horrors of God's wrath, which men will face if they repent not of their evils. Before it happens, God has warned you, that when it happens, you may believe and not be taken by surprise. It is said that God uses prophecies to build faith in his people, because it requires faith and patience for that which were spoken and is written, to come to pass. The predictions of Nostradamus and the Apocalypse are not the same. Biblical end-time prophecies include an escape clause for those who fear God and hoping for his mercy and salvation. Man's response to God's warning will either trigger an avalanche of his wrath to come or enable him to escape the same and live.

# **15. Prepare For The End**

The wealth of a man is his strong fortress, but the poor trust in God. If you have the money you can stock up and prepare a special room for the day and hour. But you will not be able to hide from the face of God when the heavens roll open like a scroll and God is seen from the earth. Even kings and mighty men will run and cry that mountains will fall on them. Why? Because of the wrath of the Lamb. The Day of judgment has arrived. For seven years Jacobs trouble will cover the whole earth. Keep in mind two-thirds of the world population will be wiped off the planet through wars, plagues, famine, and death. If you are one of the lucky few to survive, you will have lived to see family, friends, stars, etc die. Remember this will be a reality show and live-action. You will have your role to play, either running or fighting for your life.

But how do you prepare for the Apocalypse you cannot escape from? For the ground will open up and swallow men alive as if it is not already happening. The heavens will become weird and things people never saw will appear to torment them wishing they could die five months long. No brand or star will rescue them, even if they google their names. So you better stock up on the most important book in history and know the only name God has approved, by which man can be saved. And for those who are afraid Jesus would say: Fear not. God has not appointed you to endure his wrath. You can escape the 7 years Apocalypse if you keep praying that God to keep you from the hour of trial that is coming on the whole world, and count you worthy to escape it. But if you are not afraid now, you will be when it suddenly starts. There are some practical things you can do. Not everyone will need all of these things all the time. But you be the captain of your own evacuation and survival plan.

Electricity: Blackouts will be frequent due to natural catastrophe, and the aging structures. Cellphones, wifi and internet networks will be down as signals fail. And if you are a Facebooker or Instagrammer you may experience a lot of withdrawal symptoms during this time like a caffeine addict on ice tea. Candles will burn out and battery power will diminish, so get yourself rechargeable and solar light devices, and you may just see the light of day. Electricity and diesel dual-powered generators will be your best investment here if you want to avoid the campfires in your living room.

Safety and Security: The safety and security of everyone will be compromised. Fear will be the norm of the day. Heart failure will kill many people because of the distress. 'Sick' people will appear everywhere shooting up where no one expected. The love of many will grow cold because of the increased lawlessness. Trust will be out the door and paranoia will spread like a disease. Neighbors will spy on each other, instead of neighborhood-watches and solidarity. You should plan of evacuation and a place of hiding, which also serves as a storage facility for essentials in case of emergency. You and your family might need to stay there for days before 911 will finally be able to get to you. Simply because the Police will be too busy to respond to all the calls all the time all at once. Some neighborhoods will have roses, while others will feel the sting of the thorns of crime. The law and justice will be stretched, and in other places non-existent. The sad thing about safety is that even a friend might sell you out for a few lousy bucks. Having a firearm is definitely recommended.

Wars and rumors of war: If you don't have peace with God now, you will not find peace at that time. Wars will no longer be contained in inner conflicts far away. Warzones will include your neighborhood when world war three happens. In war, many hide. Bomb shelters are already a normal addition for the rich. But biological warfare will kill at random, simply because they have no mask to breathe in the pure air.

Famine and drought: This will lead to a shortage of food, the rationing of food. The shortage of food will starve to many skeletons and bones. Lines of people hoping to get basic food supplies. People falling dead while standing in line either from the heat or from a disease. Water will be rationed severely. Inflation will shoot through the roof and many will lose their property and businesses will close down. Other things about water and food are that it can become polluted and contaminated. So bottle up. Because now it is still cheap. Have some good wine and oil for cooking. Dry foods like pasta, flour, tin food, and seed if you can grow your own garden. Livestock on will always be a great value.

Diseases and pandemics: Like the Coronavirus, and the black plagues that will sweep through cities and neighborhoods. Like the coronavirus, it will continue to cripple the nation's economy and prosperity. People will become bankrupt and unemployed overnight. Which will affect the family especially the poor? Stock up on masks and gloves and anti-inflammatory medicines. Have a medicine box for critical situations. Hospitals and doctors may be overloaded by the time you need urgency. And because life is in the blood it is always best to avoid eating raw meat with its blood to avoid being contaminated with viruses that may jump from animals to humans.

Natural disasters: The 2004 Tsunami took everyone by surprise. This will reappear in rapid session without warning. Japan knows the collateral damage that comes from the raging sea finds no resisting barriers. Invest in Life jackets for each member of your family perhaps even boats or any floatable device. But the flood hits your area boats may sink, but those life jackets could be a lifesaver for your loved ones. Besides nature, you will also the dying off of masses of animals. During this time pets and animals will become more disturbed and attack their owners and people. Either due to heat strokes or some kind of disease. And when panic sets in, things will turn uncontrollable in a crowd.

Money: Gold always has been the number one investment. For money burn and loses its value. You will ultimately enter into a time when no one can buy or sell without the mark of the beast. Those who take its number or name will be damned forever. They will be cursed people, who for a short time period enjoy the luxury of the beast. But boils and sores will cover their bodies, and their souls cast into the lake of fire forever. It will be a moneyless society for the most part but never, never, never take that mark on your hand or forehead.

Non-Essentials: Perhaps a good idea would be to see what essentials a camping van contains. Things that can cool you down in excessive heat conditions and things that can warm you up in extreme cold. You may need to have a survival backpack or a trunk of stuff that you may only need once or twice a lifetime. But in the Apocalypse, the essentials will become too expensive for the poor or sold out. Toilet paper is already a commodity woman fight over.

# **16. Come Up Here**

Come up here, come up higher, for I have things for you to watch and see, Come up here to the top of the stairs. Let go of the ladder of success and let's go higher than any elevator can take you. Look beyond the dreams and visions you have for this earthly realm. I am calling you higher than the sun, moon, and stars.

Come up here into the heavens where I have prepared a room for you. Come up here my child for this is where you belong. You are invited to my banquette I am preparing for you. Don't let your heart be troubled, you believe in God, believe also in me, for I have gone to prepare a place for you. If it was not so, I would not have told you so. But now open your ears and hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. You heard my voice and my call.

Come up here. For it's all by my grace and love for you. Only believe and be glad. Praise and sing for I am your joy and peace. I gave you my word and my promises. I will never leave you and I will never forsake you. Fear not for I am with you till that final hour. So, come up here, for I have many things for you to watch and see. Watch and pray and keep walking in the light of my word for all to see. I am coming soon.

Many mockers and deceivers there will be, but in a twinkling of an eye, I will catch you up to heaven to be with me. Be patient and wait for my trumpet call. Soon I say to you again, and the world will see you no more. Get your lamps burning with extra virgin oil. Don't be left behind. For when I shut the door, they will cry but I will not listen to open it again. Warn them for me but to you I say, come up here.

# **17. Born Again**

Thank God, it's Friday again. Every weekend I would hitchhike 60 km to go home and then to return to military base early on a Monday morning. A family of three stopped and picked me up. This ride would impact and change my life forever. We talk about many things, and then we start talking about God. Why not? After all, we all seem to have our views and opinions about God. I believed in God, and I did go to church every Sunday. I even have been a deacon before going to the army. I never smoked or drank in my life until I joined the army. Sexual immorality wasn't really a sin for me because I did not see it God's way. And having a personal relationship with God was not a reality for me, even though I religiously prayed for my food and some other things.

But then the daughter asked me a question I could not answer. Instantly I knew something was missing in my relationship with God. When I got home, I prayed and said, God, I don't have this joy she was talking about, but I want it. I did not even know what the joy of the Lord was. I suffered from depression and fear and always thought suicide was a good way out. Thank God he gave it to me. My wells always overflowing in the presence of God and his people. A double portion you can say. God dipped my feet in oil to dance and sing as David did. Truly I can say the joy of the Lord is my strength and it was birthed by the word of God spoken to me which I believed and desired more than anything else. You too can have this joy. God promised.

After that, I ran into a friend of mine while looking for a good time in the city. It was a quick hello and goodbye, but he shared with me four words, that changed his life, and consequently mine as well. I remember that exact moment because when he spoke those words, I literally felt a cut in my heart. The feeling was so strong that I wanted what he had, even though I did not know what it was. I am born again, he said and then he left me there hanging as he went on his way. But two weeks later I finally understood what it meant to be born again, by water and by the Spirit, as we were singing the Revelation 19.11-16, song. For the first time in my life, I was filled with God's joy in my soul. It was a gift from God and all I had to do was believe and receive it. You see this gospel of the kingdom will be preached among the poor. He made me rich. He gave me an inheritance I knew nothing about. I was made a co-heir with Christ and king and priest unto God and his Father.

Two thieves were crucified with Christ that day long ago. One on each side of the King of the Jews. Yes, I tell you he was more than just the king of one nation. He was the king of kings. The one thief on his left joined the crowd cursing and mocking him to save himself like he saved others. But his partner in crime on the right side of Christ rebuked him, saying: We deserve death, but he has done nothing wrong. And then he said to Jesus, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus responded to him by saying, today will you be with me in paradise. Hallelujah. Just before he died this sinner found love and forgiveness from a merciful God. Which side are you on? With the one who knew he deserved punishment or his defiant partner who even in the face of death, feared not God but cursed his way into hell? Jesus, remember me and save me too, I believe you are the Savior of the world, send by God, not to condemn but to save. I believe you died for my sin, and that God raised you from the dead. Come live in my heart. I believe in you, with all my heart and I praise your holy name Jesus. Thank God for his gift, which is eternal life through faith in Christ our Savior.

Your sins are forgiven, washed in the blood of the Lamb, and you are born again, by grace and faith in Jesus Christ. Welcome into God's kingdom. You are now a child of God and no longer the devil's play-toy. You are precious in God's eyes. Guard your faith, for it is precious and has many rewards. For it is written, the just will live by faith. Tell someone what Jesus did for you, read his word. Pray dayly and find a church where you can live and grow. I release on you and your family the peace of Jesus till he comes again. Continue to watch and to pray that you may be counted worthy to escape the coming wrath of God, to stand before him without shame, blame, or spot. Shalom.

# **18. End Time Facts**

The book of Daniel and Revelations in the Bible accurately predicts the end of the world from the beginning; before it happens, God told you so.

2. Mother Nature's frequent increase of natural disasters is warning signs of the earth's birth pains leading up to a global catastrophe.

3. Only those who watch and pray will be raptured ready and escape the coming horrors of the wrath of God on the sons of disobedience.

3. Then will the antichrist will be revealed, the one who comes with peace corrupting many with flattering, but a destroyer of good.

4. During this time, a foreseen false prophet will arise, performing various illusions and signs, deceiving many to believe in the lie.

5. Dreadful plagues and disasters will bring misery and pain to people worldwide.

6. The wrath of God on the sons of disobedience is inevitable on every living creature that will destroy two-thirds of man and beast.

7. Torment, fear, and despair will grip the hearts of all those who readily received the mark of the beast on their hands and foreheads.

8. Seven long years of famine, drought, floods, hunger, war, disease, death, and destruction will plague men like never before in history.

9. Exalting himself above every god and speaking astonishing things against the God of gods, he then goes to sit in the midst of the temple as a god, while he plunges the whole world into utter darkness and despair.

10. Then, Christ returns as the Messiah and usher in 1000 years of peace on earth as He rules and reigns from Jerusalem, the capital of the world.

11. Both the antichrist and the false prophet will be condemned alive to the lake of fire and brimstone for all eternity.

12. Technology and science will continue to advance while humanity for the first time in history will live in total peace without war.

13. At the end of the 1000 years, a rebellion to remove Christ from the office will take place, but those who take part will be crushed.

14. This is what the LORD said: "I will return to Zion and will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem.

15. God will judge the whole world and if your name is not found in the Book of Life, you will perish in the lake of fire, with Satan to be tormented day and night forever, which is the second death.

16. But because of God's mercy, an escape clause was included before one's death to be saved from the coming wrath of His indignation.

17. God has no pleasure in the death of any man who dies in his sin, but rather that sinners will turn to Him in repentance and live.

18. Behold the day comes, burning like an oven all the proud and them that do wickedly, to stubble.

19. But fearful, unbelieving, murderers, sexually immoral, abominable, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars shall have their part in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.

20. And so, in the end, will come the new heavens and earth, and the former shall not be remembered nor come to mind.

21. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who hold the truth in unrighteousness.

# **19. Which One Are You?**

The one who builds communities, or destroys families with terror and immorality?  
The one who lives by conviction and purpose or the seared conscience who fears not even God's anger?  
The one who positively influence others or negatively impacts the economy with crime?  
The one who seeks solutions, or the easy way out?  
The one who finishes well, or gives up quickly?  
The one who encourages, or offends even a child?  
The one who forgives, or the merciless killer?  
The one who respects rules, or the foolish rebel?  
The one who loves, or curse truth with hate speech?  
The one who does good, or finds loopholes for evil?  
The one who shows mercy, or the revengeful stone?  
The one who seeks peace, or calls for a holy war?  
The one who enrich the poor, or despises God?  
The one who believes in God, or an atheist fool?  
You could be the one or the other, but think twice,  
for there is a prize and a reward  
greater than the Oscars gold.

# **20. You Be The One**

You be the generous giver people admire.  
You be the hope everybody is hoping for.  
You be the strength to the weak and defenseless.  
You be the light that displaces the darkness of despair.  
You be the courageous one, that strengthens the timid.  
You be the refreshment to a thirsty soul.  
You be the positive influence of a healthy society.  
You be the success that motivates the rest.  
You be the healing ointment to the sick and dying.  
You be the voice speaking out in the midst of silence.  
You be the one standing up when others cowered down.  
You be the one to do something when words are not enough.  
You be the one who brings a smile to a weary soul.  
You be the one to keep love going, even if it hurts.  
You be the one to step up and step out doing good.

# **21. Apocalypse Now**

The world is at war. Peace has skyrocketed off the earth. No one feels safe anymore. Even familiar friends and family members could be a potential Trojan horse, opening the door that would infect everyone in their well-protected community homes. It happens unnoticed. You can't even smell the spirit of death that buddy rides this Coronavirus. Like the Black plague and Spanish influenza, it spreads everywhere. An enemy of the state of health, and a wrecking ball to flourishing economies. It's not the worst of its kind. Nonetheless, it wants to make a name for itself, as it leaps onto the world stage. An unseen villain that doesn't want to be touched. It thrives off the fear of many, except for a chosen few strong and courageous ones. Who by prayer and faith in Jesus Christ have raised a protection shield and a lively sword to heal the stripes of the wounded and dying. Where are all the superheroes? What name or brand offers hope to the blind and naked? Bars have run dry, shelves swept empty and clean. Borders are shut as the buzz of city life fade into ghosted shells. And nations have gone into hiding. But this is only a trailer of the coming worldwide reality show called "Apocalypse Now".

In these trying times of separation, when fear and panic sets in you are forced to adapt and to make room for something new. For some it's a party, and for others it is sheer hell to stay home safe. Distractions may be helpful but sometimes misguided. And the torment of fear itself doesn't comfort the weak and frail. The one thing I can encourage you with, is that you should reflect on the spiritual significance of the events that are happening all over the world. Floods, the dying off of species in unprecedented numbers, the frequent increase of natural disasters, famine, droughts, greens burning up, not to forget the weird signs in the skies, and the lack of empathy towards those dying of hunger, and towards the poor. Now you stand face to face with a pandemic in hands. You are no longer a spectator of events far away. You are part of a real-life drama that is unfolding. A sudden disruption of your happy life could be more than just mother natures aging spells. In the quiet of the night, even in your busyness, God can come. First, you will hear his voice, before the thunder and lightning fell. Perhaps he is inviting you to come under the safety of his protection. Maybe he is warning you of a greater disaster around the curve. One that you and your loved ones can escape from if you would only respond to his gentle voice of kindness and mercy. Everyone needs to watch and pray, for we are nearing the end of days. And if you are looking for answers to all human suffering and the meaning of life, then the word of God will bring light when everything seems dark and unpredictable. His love will bring you peace of heart and mind, whether you will live or die, you can live with Him. God is not dead, he lives among the living.

# **22. The Battle of Armageddon**

Ezekiel saw a vision of the greatest battle the world will ever experience, twice. It started with the invasion and assault on Israel. As you know the Jews are about to rebuild the 3rd Temple and worship of God will mean many will have to forsake their old ways of godless living while others will have to divorce themselves from their idols in the homes and hearts. The God of Israel will not share his glory with man nor idols. And the nations will come to know God in his fury when he sanctifies himself and his names before the gentile people because they are no longer willing to embrace the love of God which is found in Christ his son. This is when he who resists will be taken out of the way and God pours out his Spirit on Israel. But it's a time of Jacobs trouble, God's wrath, and Babylon's sorrow.

There will be pestilence, and a shaking, fire from heaven, then the presence of the long-awaited Messiah with his feet on the Mount of Olives. He comes as King and he is Lord. It is the time of the great supper of God. But first the battle and among the dead, kings, princes, mighty men, and their horses. Scripturally, the battle of Gog and Magog begins at the Battle of Armageddon, and it will end in the same place a 1000 years later at the second attempt to destroy Jerusalem. Ezekiel 38 and 39 play out in Revelation 16.12-21, and chapters 19:17-20. But in Revelation 20.7-15, you have the conclusion of this epic battle drama between good and evil for the rightful owner of the holy city.

The Battle of Gog and Magog can best be pictured as an Armageddon blockbuster. And because of its success ratings and positive reviews the sequel Armageddon, The Final Assault, followed a 1000 years later. Ezekiel delivered a personal message to Gog. The whole battle and its aftermath are described in two chapters before the focus is shifted to the 3rd Temple which will soon be erected.

God says it is coming. It is done. Ezekiel 39.8 It's the day he warned you about. The end of the world is not the end of life. It will be the end for many. Death and destruction many movies have tried their best to capture. Ezekiel's vision is like a script God gave him. Now make your movie and let it end that way with the devil as the defeated villain. But no matter how bad he gets, it is sure to turn in the end. Christ the hero will save Jerusalem, the city of peace. Satans plans will be interrupted at the start of the battle, when he is bound and thrown into a bottomless pit prison for a 1000 years. And like a career criminal who shows no remorse or change in behavior, he jumps right back into action to deceive the nations to revolt against Christ Reign for a second time.

God never changed the script of how the Battle of Gog will end. Even a 1000 years later, with different characters, and a modern version of an old classic, the exact same ending is written. For this reason, it seems hard to tell why the villain in the first movie reappears in the sequel. Can you imagine a two part story with different characters? It would be inappropriate. Now, of course, with a sequel, you can't have the same ending. The villain loses twice. First time he was inprison, but the second time he will be cast into the lake of fire and brimstone without parole.

Three times Christ is victorious. First time when he came to destroy the works of the devil but was rejected by his own. In Ezekiel's version the movie doesn't close immediately where you see the heroes alive after a heavy battle. The scene actually continues to show Israel will pick up and dispose of all the weapons 7 years long, while they for 7 months continue to search and bury the dead scattered all over the battle area. The opening scene of the sequel, Armageddon, the final Assault, will have the backdrop of Jerusalem and the world living in peace. This is a time when soldiers became civilians and weapons were turned into farming equipment. A time of great peace when war finally ended under the peaceful reign of Christ. For out of Zion will go forth the law and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. Then at the end of a 1000 years, Satan will be released. Of course, he spared no time to get back to his old self, deceiving the nations in an attempt to try once more to break free from God's law and the iron rule of Christ.

But you already know who wrote the script and how it will end. The same movie director who did the Passion of Christ has done Armageddon Two. The victory is always certain but because people have not read the book of Revelation they don't know how beautiful the end will look like. So they believe the lies of the Lord of the flies. They give their eyes and ears to fake news as if it is April fools day. Have you not heard that the Lord God is from everlasting to everlasting? The Creator of the beginning and the end, the Alpha and Omega. He is the First and the Last.

If you want to avoid Revelation 6 to 20, you have to watch and pray, and repent now. And if you want to live with Christ in the new heavens and the new earth as pictured in Revelation 21 and 22, you need to give your life to Christ today. For he is able to keep you and present you in his sight without blame, without spot, and holy. Like any action movie, you need a real hero that would come back from the dead just to save you. That is how much God loved the world. This kind of love is real. Jesus loved and obeyed his Father to the point of death on the cross. That's the part of the script with a twist when God raised his only begotten son from the dead. To honor him by no other name, but the name of Jesus Christ man can be saved. He is the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in him will never perish but have eternal life.

And this is where Armageddon, the final assault, will end. At the great white throne of God, who will judge the living and the dead. Then those whose names are not found written in the book of life will be cast into the lake of fire which is the second death with the satan, his demons, hell, and death to burn forever as a memorial before God. But those who found grace in his loving presence will live in the new earth without sea, where the lion and the lamb will dwell together and where death, pain, and darkness will no longer exist. Selah.

And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse. And he that sat upon it was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he do judge and make war. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns. And he had a name written, that no man knew, but he himself. He was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood and his name is called The Word of God. And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean. And out of his mouth goes a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations and to rule them with a rod of iron. It is He who tread the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. And he has on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, KING OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS. Rev 19.11-16

# **23. The Midnight Call**

At midnight the call went out, He is coming! Immediately the wise grabbed their lamps filled with extra virgin oil in eager anticipation, for they were ready. But the foolish had to stand in line, to buy more oil, for their lamps would not shine. And by the time they finished their shopping spree, the Bridegroom had already come and gone. It was too late, and now they have to wait, till the end of the Apocalyptic time for his second coming. It would have been wrong, but they knew it all along, that they had to watch and pray, to be counted worthy on that specific day, to escape the wrath of God, the anger of the Lamb, never intended for a bride so pure and divine. It all happened so suddenly, in a twinkling of an eye, the lights went out and darkness swept in, over the crowds. Nations deceived and fooled, now the man of peace would stage-arrive, with a beast inside of him ready to be unleashed. Bewildered by witchcraft the people believed his lies. The false prophet would make him shine, yet this angel is that devil from hell. Seven long years and many bitter tears, when two-thirds of the world's population would perish by war, famine, death, and pestilence. You heard me right, your chance of survival out of three would be one. Fear and panic will soar as lawlessness gain the upper hand. He who wants to control the earth is himself the lawless one. Six, 6, six, don't get caught up in the mix. Cursed, and doomed is Lucifers named and numbered. But in the hour when Rome burns to rubble, and Jerusalem is surrounded, the son of man will appear in the sky, as Lord and King. Battle ready and with the sword in his mouth will he slay kings and mighty men gathered at Armageddon. And when all is finished the Prince of Peace, the one whose eyes were like a fire will reign a millennium while, before the Final Judgment of the wicked begin. But there is a glimmer of hope. The gospel truth is so simple: Repent and be baptized for the remission of your sins, for the kingdom of God is at hand. Harken now before the trumpet's sounds, for surely God cannot lie. The truth will set you free, only believe Jesus is the One. Once he was dead but now he is among the living. Death has been defeated and to live you must be born again.

Like a thief in the night will he come. In a twinkling of an eye, will they who love his appearing be caught up together to be with him forever and stand before the judgment seat of Christ. When the Ark was ready, the animals entered in and so did Noah and his family and God shut the door so no one else could get in afterward. Likewise, will He shut the door on the foolish virgins caught by surprise by his unexpected return. And shouting from the outside they will plead with the King and say: Please open up the door and let us in. But he will answer them, Go away I know you not. God warns all men to watch and pray that they may be found worthy to escape his coming wrath.

# **24. The Season And Reason**

Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign of your coming, and of the end of the world? And Jesus said to them: Be careful that no man deceive you. Many will come in my name, saying, I am Christ, and will deceive many. You will hear of wars, and rumors of wars. Be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines, pestilences, and earthquakes, in divers places. All these things are the beginning of sorrows. Matthew 24

Blessed is he that reads, and they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep the things which are written therein, for the time is at hand. The book of Daniel and Revelations in the Bible accurately predicts the end of the world from the beginning; before it happens God told you so. Israel always has been a sign and wonder to the nations. But now for a short time, God's grace and salvation have come to the gentiles.

The frequent increase of the Acts of God reflected in Mother Nature's anger, are warning signs that the 70th week of Daniel and Revelation 6 to 19, are soon to be fulfilled. In a twinkling of an eye, will those who were worthy be raptured, and escape the coming horrors of God wrath on the disobedient sons. And when he who resists is taken out of the way, then will the antichrist will be revealed, also known as the man of peace or perdition, who will corrupt and destroy many with flattering lips and deceitful lies.

At the same time, a false prophet will perform various signs and illusions to deceive the people to believe in lies. Dreadful plagues and disasters worse than Egypt's 10 plagues will cause global pandemics of misery, pain, and death. The coming wrath of God on the sons of disobedience is inevitable. Two-thirds of mankind will be wiped from the earth and who can hide from His anger? Torment, fear, and despair will be most severe on those who readily received the mark of the beast on their hands and foreheads. Seven years of famine, drought, floods, hunger, war, disease, death, and destruction will plague men like never before in history. Exalting himself above every god and speaking astonishing things against the living God, the antichrist then will go to sit in the midst of the temple as a god, while he plunges the whole world into utter darkness and despair.

In the end Christ will return on the Mount of Olives as Messiah and usher in a 1000 year reign of peace as King in Jerusalem, the capital of the world. Both the antichrist and false prophet will be cast alive into the lake of fire and brimstone. Technology and science will continue to advance while humanity for the first time in history will live in total peace without war. And at the end of Christ's peace reign, a rebellion will rise again against his rule. But fire from heaven will consume all of them. Then God will judge the living and the dead, and whoever's name is not found in the Book of Life, will also be cast into the lake of fire, which is the second death. But by God's mercy, an escape clause was included for those who want to be saved from His wrath.

But of the times and the seasons, brethren, you have no need that I write to you. For you know perfectly that the day of the Lord comes as a thief in the night. For when they say, Peace and safety, sudden destruction will come upon them, as a woman about to give birth to a child and they will not escape. But you, are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief. You are all the children of light and the children of the day.

# **25. God's wrath**

For God has no pleasure in the death of any man who dies in his sin, but rather that sinners will turn to Him in repentance and live. But behold the day is coming burning like an oven, all the proud and them that do wickedly, to stubble. And the fearful, unbelieving, abominable, murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars will have their part in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. And after this will come the new heavens and the new earth, and the former will not be remembered, nor come to mind. Salvation belongs to the Lord and to those who come to Him for salvation.

For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who hold the truth in unrighteousness. For that which may be known of God is manifest in them. God has shown it to them. For the invisible things of God from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even His eternal power and Godhead so that they are without excuse. Because of this, when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. And changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man, and to birds, and animals, and creeping things. So God gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts of their own hearts, to dishonor their own bodies between themselves. For they changed the truth of God into a lie and worshiped and served the creature more than the Creator, who is blessed forever. For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections. Even their women changed the natural use into that which is against nature. Likewise the men also leaving the natural use of the woman, burned in their lust one for another. Men with men working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves the recompense of their error which was fitting, as they did not liked to retain God in their knowledge. Thus God gave them over to a reprobate mind, to do things which are not convenient. Being filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness, full of envy, murder, debate, deceit, malice, whisperers, backbiters, haters of God, spiteful, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents. Without understanding, covenant-breakers, without natural affection, implacable, and unmerciful. Knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the same but have pleasure in them that do them.

Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous his thoughts and let him return to the Lord, for He will have mercy upon him and God will abundantly pardon. There is none righteous, no, not one. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Blessed are they that do his commandments that they may have the right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city. If you confess your sins, he is faithful and just to forgive you your sins, and to cleanse you from all unrighteousness. Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins. God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell, and delivered them into chains of darkness, to be reserved unto judgment. And spared not the old world, but saved Noah and eight family members, a preacher of righteousness, bringing in the flood upon the ungodly. Turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes condemned them with an overthrow, making them an example unto those that after should live ungodly. The will of God for you is to open your eyes, and to turn you from darkness to light, and from Satan power unto God, that you may receive forgiveness of sins, and an inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in Jesus Christ.

Cry, for the day of the Lord is at hand. It will come as a destruction from the Almighty. Therefore will all hands be faint, and every man's heart will melt because of fear. Pangs and sorrows will take hold of them like the pain of a woman giving birth. They will be amazed one at another with their faces aflamed. Behold, the day of the Lord comes, cruel both with wrath and fierce anger, to lay the land desolate. And he will destroy the sinners thereof, out of it. Even the stars of heaven and the constellations will not give their light. The sun will be darkened in his going forth, and the moon will not cause her light to shine. And I will punish the world for their evil, and the wicked for their iniquity. And I will cause the arrogancy of the proud to cease, and will lay low the haughtiness of the terrible. I will make a man more precious than fine gold, and men like the golden wedge of Ophir. I will shake the heavens, and the earth will move out of her place, in the wrath of the Lord of hosts, in the day of his fierce anger. And you, flee the wrath of God to come. For it is surely coming.

The great day of the Lord is near, almost here, and speeds up, even the voice of the day of the Lord. The mighty men will cry bitterly. That day is a day of wrath, a day of trouble and distress, a day of wasteness and desolation, a day of darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness, and a day of the trumpet and alarm against the fenced cities and high towers. He will bring distress men that they will walk like blind men because they have sinned against the Lord. Their blood will be poured out as dust, and their flesh as the dung. Neither silver nor their gold will be able to deliver them in the day of the Lord's wrath. The whole land will be devoured by the fire of his jealousy, and he will make speedy riddance of all them that dwell in the land.

And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark in his forehead, or in his hand. The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever: and they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast and his image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name.

# **26. God Wants You To Know**

Is the book of Revelations a mystery or too difficult to understand? Isaiah's response to the people in his day was, "it is because there is no light in them". But you are not in the dark when the light of Christ shines in you. For you have the unction of the Holy One and need not that any should teach you. He will teach you by his faithful ministers the word of God: Evangelists, Preachers, Teachers, Prophets, and Apostles are all his instruments to build and establish his church to maturity. He will reveal to you the things that were, the things that are, and things that are to come.

The book of Revelations is filled with historical truths, poetic symbolism, and inspired cryptic revelation, that gives the church a detailed prophetic end-time vision. But the world cannot receive it, for it has not the Spirit of God in them unless they believe. Spiritual things are spiritually discerned and cannot be carnally discerned. Inspired men of God wrote down the words of God, visions, and dreams they received, revealing God's will from Genesis to Revelations. In common terms, the Apocalypse is the revelation of what is hidden inside Pandora's box. It is no secret. God wants his people to know. Jehovah said, Ask and I will reveal to you great and wonderful things you know not. Sons of men, you now have unprecedented opportunity to see and know God's plan before it is deployed as the Lord revealed it to John his beloved apostle through a messanger angel. Blessed is he who hears, and he who reads and who keeps this prophecy, for the end time is near. And in the end, there is a reward for each and everyone who endure. Amen.

Daniel's end-time vision had been sealed up until the time of the end, but Revelation is the unveiling and how the end will unfold before your very eyes. Prophets like Isaiah, Ezekiel, Jeremiah, and other prophets, prophesied in detail the horrors of God's wrath to come, which men will face if they repent not of their (d)evils. Before it happens, God sounded the alarm, that when it happens you may believe and not be taken by surprise.

Revelations will unleash a brand new reality show that will keep people glued to their mobiles and televisions for updates and news. Family, friends, colleagues, and strangers will all become one of the Apocalyptic Reality Series Generation that will not only be watching the action unfold on screens, tubes, and mobile, but they themselves will become starring actors, heroes, backdrops, and true-life witnesses as the script was written by God in chapters 6 to 19 unfolds verse by verse. This reality show will take place in real-time, over a 7-year period, and many men, the brave, rich, poor, and kings, will find themselves in terror, helpless, and in total despair, not knowing whether they will live or die. Choose now and ask Jesus to prepare you to be ready for his return and the rapture of his church.

Revelation is a prophecy revealed to inform his servants what is about to come to pass in its set time. Scripture talks about the fullness of times for the gentiles. John was only the scribe who recorded what he saw. What has he seen? First and foremost and most importantly here he saw Jesus in all his glory standing in the midst of the 7 candlesticks. Why did Jesus appear to John your brother and companion in tribulation? Remember the last time John saw Jesus was with the other apostles and the 500 witnesses in Acts One when Jesus was taken up into heaven alive before their very eyes and sat down at his Father's right hand until his enemies are made his footstool. In like manner, God raptured Elijah to heaven in a chariot of fire before the very eyes of Elisha's servant and the school of prophets who were watching from the sideline.

And he informed me, and talked with me, and said, O Daniel, I am now come forth to give you skill and understanding. At the beginning of your supplications, the commandment went forth and have come to show you what will happen, for you are greatly beloved. Therefore, understand the matter, and consider the vision. Dan 9.22-23 The secret things belong to Jehovah God, but the things which are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law. Deu 29:29 For surely Jehovah God will do nothing, but that he reveals his secret to his servants the prophets. Amos 3.7

God wants you to know. Know what? From Genesis to Revelations God clearly tells a man that He sees and knows all things and that nothing is hidden from him whether in the past, present or future. Science and the Pope with his Lucifer telescope are observing space and beyond even to the dark matters which could easily be the forbidden fruit hoping to get some signal from outer space that there is life. But the invisible God became visible in Christ his son demonstrating his love for the world. God speaks in many ways. Sometimes, through a still voice, other times through circumstances or people, but mainly through his written word. Jesus often re-minded Satan that it is written and we are to resist these evil forces as well. In revelations 2 and 3 you will see how Jesus constantly commands the church to listen and to hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. Yes, God gave us his logos word. And the logos word became a Rhema word from God that transformed us from darkness into the kingdom of his light. He is the same word send from God who became flesh and blood, a merciful high priest who was tempted in all things as you are, yet without sin. Who now sits at the right hand of the father and lives to make intercession for us. God wants you to know that judgment is coming. Jehovah said, will I hide from Abraham that thing which I will do? And God said to Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me. For the earth is filled with violence through them and, behold, I will destroy them with the earth.

# **27. He is Alive**

Deadman walking, seen alive by many. He was dead but now He is alive. He has risen from the dead. He was not the first but he is the firstborn from the dead. What did John saw? In John 19 he saw his beloved friend, and master crucified on that cross. How it must have ripped through his heart. To love someone so dearly, and then to watch him die before your very eyes. Helpless and unable to stop the execution. But his sorrow would last but for a moment, because 3 days later, he saw Jesus Christ alive, risen from the dead. What did Mary and Peter saw? Mary saw an angel, and then she saw her beloved son, the Christ, who told her not to touch him, for he has not yet gone to his Father. What did John and Peter saw? They saw the empty grave. He is not here, he is risen. Allelujah.

Jesus is Alive. This is him, portrayed in the midst of the church, in Revelations 1, and this book is his Message to anyone who is willing to read it and to listen. AlleluJah, He who was dead, is alive. In Him was life, and that life was the light of men. God raised Him from the dead. Witnessed by his disciples and more than 500 other followers, for 40 days after His resurrection, until He before their very eyes were taken up into heaven. I am He who lives and was dead. See, I am alive forevermore, amen. And I have the keys of hell and of death. Wow, Jesus our Prophet, our Priest, our Savior, he lives. He is no more dead. His grave empty. He is risen. That is the joy of every Christian. We remember his death by breaking bread and drinking the wine which is his flesh and blood broken for us, but we eagerly await the return of Christ now seated at the right hand of God. Because of this hope, we cleanse ourselves from that which contaminates, to pursue holiness in the fear of the Lord who lives and has the power to cast both body and soul into hell.

Jesus is alive and was dead. He is risen, and Death and Hell have been defeated. Hallelujah Jesus is alive forevermore. Jesus is no longer hanging on a cross. Where are the happy faces and the empty tomb in the Catholic church? Look and see his grave is empty, He is risen. Now, here in John's vision, Jesus is standing alive in the midst of the 7 Candlesticks which is the 7 churches, saying: I am the resurrection and the Life. He that believes in Me, though he were dead yet will he live again. And whoever lives and believes in Me will never die. Do you believe this? John 11:25-26, 1Cor 15:14.

What God has shown Jesus, He now has revealed to his church in this prophetic book. Just like Jesus often spoke in parables so is this prophecy for the same reason. But this you have an unction of the Holy One and need not that any should teach you. For whatever He hears He will reveal to you, for He speaks the will of God. Let him who has an ear hear what the Spirit of the Lord is saying to the church.

Then the thunderous voice spoke and said: Write down the things you saw, and that which is and the things that would be after that. Jesus was standing alive and in the midst of His church. Remember Jesus is the head of the church, above the Pope and the Queen of England. They are mortals and serve His purposes and likewise have to submit under the Christ. Neither is there any doctrine, or revelation higher than that which Christ already has revealed through His apostles and prophets which are the foundation of Christian doctrine and beliefs.

What did John saw? As a disciple of Christ John saw the promised Messiah in action and all the miracles Jesus did. He saw the Son of God and wrote about him and all the words He spoke. He saw the Word of God and how the word of God was made flesh and dwelt amongst men. Then He saw Christ, the hope of Israel, betrayed, mocked despised and beaten and pierced dying on a cross.

With indescribable sorrow, he gathered with the rest of the disciples mourning his cruel death. But Isaiah prophesied and said, Joy comes in the morning. Three days later at the rising of the sun, John, together with Peter, and Mary first saw the empty grave before they saw the risen son of God. At first, they perceived not, nor did they remembered his words, that He would rise again. But an angel appeared to Mary who searched for his body, saying: He is not here, He has Risen. But blessed is she among women, the mother of our Savior, chosen by God, as a virgin she gave birth to the One they called Emmanuel, which means God with us. Touch me not he said to her, for I have not yet gone to My Father. But go tell the good news to the brethren. HalleluJah.

And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people. Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him. For the hour of his judgment is come. Worship him who made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters.

# **A Blessing For You**

May the Lord bless and keep you. May he cause his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you. May he lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. May you also prosper, and be in good health, even as your soul prospers. May he bless your bread and water and heal you from every disease. May he reveal to you your inheritance you know nothing about. May your eyes see the Father's glory in everything, and may your ears hear the gentle voice of his Holy Spirit. May your name be found written in the Lamb's book of life, as you continue to love God. In Jesus name amen.

www.sunshineinparis.org

THE END
