

Ascension

By A.H.French

Published By A.H.French @ Smashwords

Copyright © 2019 A.H.French

Smashwords Edition, License Notes

This book is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This book may not be resold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you are reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return it to your favorite ebook retailer and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of the author.

CHARACTERS

Allonin, Tri-Rep

Manara, Watcher, council member

Elder, leader of "watchers"

Roger Griffen, Allonin's best friend

Betty, Roger's wife

The Phantom/shadow, Allonin's mentor

Table of contents

CHAPTER 1 500 Years of Peace.

CHAPTER 2 Tabitha and Allen

CHAPTER 3 Short Vacation

CHAPTER 4 Trouble Brewing

CHAPTER 5 Bad News, Good News

CHAPTER 6 Ultimatum

CHAPTER 7 Doomsday

CHAPTER 8 Robots?

CHAPTER 9 Meeting of the Minds

CHAPTER 10 Shocking Good News

CHAPTER 11 War

CHAPTER 12 Ending War, Once and For All.

CHAPTER 13 Manara's Family.

CHAPTER 14 Robots, Puzzle!

CHAPTER 15 Planet Hunting

CHAPTER 16 A Divided House

CHAPTER 17 The Council

CHAPTER 18 Replacements

CHAPTER 19 The Phantom Shadow

CHAPTER 20 The Council

CHAPTER 21 Mother

CHAPTER 22 Exodus and Ascension

CHAPTER 23 Meeting The Phantom

CH 24 Epilogue;

CHAPTER 1 500 Years of Peace.

Five hundred years of peace and prosperity. Allonin, Commander of the Milky Way defense forces, sat and reflected on all that had happened during that time since the Warmongers had surrendered and been sent back to their own galaxy. There had been some bumps along the way.

The first hundred years after the war was a call to all the races something had to change. It was decided that a council had to be created with the power to govern all the races including those without stardrive technology. At first it didn't seem that this would happen. But with representatives from all the worlds meeting on neutral ground,(a rather large asteroid) it came to pass that give and take on the vital issues was the secret to a galaxy council. Full members were to have two representatives And others one. Full members had stardrive. The races that didn't were considered junior members. They would become full members when they had achieved stardrive technology. Though in the minority they had the full members trying to garner their votes at crucial times. The council was like a galactic court. When an injustice was brought to their attention they had the Tri-reps do a full study and give their findings at a full member meeting. The Tri-rep organization was thought by all to be an impartial investigative unit. Through tough times they proved that they could govern to everyone's satisfaction After a short period of adjustment, the races went on to peaceful trade with one another.

The Humans and Monsatts were the envy of all the races. With two different viewpoints they found solutions to many difficult problems.. .The Monsatts brought ships with rudimentary stardrive and the two races were admitted to the council immediately. In less than a decade they had come up with improvements that made their ships as fast as the Motherships of "the watchers". They also made extraordinary breakthroughs in medicine, health, and geriatrics. Sickness became a thing of the past. And best of all they went out of their way to help other races with problems. However, they were barred from helping anyone get stardrive technology. Even better, to show the other races their dual living arrangement, they renamed Earth, Monsatt human, and Mars, Human Monsatt. Though the other races thought it funny, the names stuck.

The hybrids and "the watchers" were not sitting by and watching. They built smaller ships and made it possible for anyone to visit any other planet. Their luxury ships could handle up to six hundred passengers and had the means for each individual to leave the ship with breathing tanks and protection from the elements for all the planets. This bought the races closer together in peace and friendship. Soon, the races wanted private ships for business, to take twenty or less customers, or families if they could afford them. The luxury ships were swamped by vacationers wanting to see the different worlds. It was a very lucrative enterprise. They also were making improvements to the automated colleges and universities They built another city on Eden that was strictly for students that wished to get their degree in half the time of ordinary schools. They covered all the arts and sciences. For a long time there seem to be no problem to big for the races to conquer. But the time was coming when chaos would raise its ugly head.

The hybrid race, an offshoot race of "the watchers" propagated by the infusion of Manara's blood and Allonin's had a slow start. But, as their offspring grew to adulthood, they were off to the races. Twenty adult hybrids turned into a hundred, a hundred into a thousand. They multiplied at an unbelievable rate. Twins and multiple births became normal. Scientists were spending a large amount of time trying to understand this. It started with an earth man moved into an improved robot body followed by a fusion of "watcher" blood and his improved blood from the robot body. This was tried, to save him from a nuclear blast that left him almost lifeless. From then on there were unbelievable changes in him. Even after five hundred years, he was still changing. He now glowed all the time. If the glow intensified; beware. By now the hybrids were on safe footing and were looked at as the savior of "the watcher" race, by most.

The races that had started the occupation of the dwarf galaxy, next door to the milky way, Had been changing barren worlds into planets for the living. Bringing large asteroids of ice to these planets, fast growing trees from "the watchers" planet that produced many times the oxygen of most plants. Alien ingenuity had made many planets that were dead, alive and thriving. The Tri-reps had built a large space station near the planet that "the watchers" and hybrids had made a second home. To break up the trip between the galaxies, all the races had made the effort to build a large space station so as to be able to stop and refresh themselves. The fastest ships could make the trip in about ten days. However the slower ships used a month from one to the other. Yes, the last five hundred years had been good to all the races.

His mind wandered back to his children. Manara and he had decided that fifty children would suffice to keep things lively around their home. As the children reached the age of eleven or twelve they would produce another child. Sometimes they were surprised with more twins and a few triplets. The first two were twins, Tabitha and Allen. At the age of ten it was decided to have them live on Eden so they could make friends and attend school. That kept Tabitha and Allen quite busy as they grew to adulthood. Manara had a staff of excellent care takers, keeping the estate among the best kept on Eden and doting on the offspring of Manara and Allonin.

CHAPTER 2 Tabitha and Allen

Tabitha had shown promise of being a strong Seer. She was trained and educated by one of the best in the art and soon surpassed her mentor. Her ability made it hard for her to be around any large number of people. Therefore, most of her time was spent at her father's estate. Many of the problems within the races were foretold by her and resolved before becoming a major problem. She was called upon many times when other Seers had a premonition of disturbing events that were not clear to them. During her training she had met a young Seer who like her had fallen in love at first sight. After a few months it was obvious they would always be together. Soon, her father came home for an R&R break. It was then she had Jerry come over, and together told Manara and Allonin of their plans to be as one. Mom and Dad were elated and set about planning a wedding while they were home. The day after the wedding was the end of R&R, and Manara and Allonin transported up to their orbiting Mothership and left to join the other ships on the perimeter of the galaxy. Another three month tour of duty before their next month of R&R.

Tabitha, as a seer with outstanding qualities, Was adept at long range telepathy. Almost every day she would chat with her mother or Allonin. So, no matter where they were, Tabitha kept them informed. After a day had went by with nothing heard from Tabitha, Allonin sent a query to her to see if she was all right. She answered immediately. She was sick and would be for awhile. Allonin was beside himself till Manara told him it was "morning sickness" from being pregnant. So Allonin messaged her to call if there was anything he could do to help. Her response was immediate. Thanks dad, but I will survive.

As they moved out of orbit, he pondered the thought of Allen out here in command of his own Mothership, keeping tabs on his old quadrant, which included Earth. As a boy, he had been a handful. Always getting into something and then laying the blame on whoever was nearby. As he approached his tenth birthday, Manara and Allonin decided he needed to be around youngsters his own age. They enrolled him in a school nearby their residence. Manara decided to stay on Eden while the children were in school. As Allen approached his thirteenth birthday he became withdrawn and spent much of his time away from family and friends. Manara took notice of this and sent a message to Allonin. He replied instantly his R&R was starting the following morning and he would be there by breakfast. After a bite to eat, he spent some time with Manara and Tabitha. He Asked if they would like to shop as he was going to be busy for awhile.

After they left He found Allen on the patio. Sitting down beside him, he told him they needed to have a chat. Before Allen could answer, Allonin touched his shoulder and transported them to Mars City and that little ice cream shop on the corner they had stopped by a number of times. As they waited for their sundaes Allonin asked what seemed to be the problem. He started to deny there was a problem, but Allonin stopped him by raising his hand. "Son; do you think your mother would lie to me? Do you think me so dense that I can't see there is something eating at you. Between us, we can resolve this and get on with life." Allen hesitated, then admitted he had a problem and didn't know how to get it straightened out. "Dad, they recently started giving tests in all our classes. They hand a sheet to you with a number of questions written, a space to do your figuring, and a place to put your answer. I read each question and the answer just pops into my head. So I write it down and continue. Using less than one third the allotted time. Soon I get the paper back with a zero for a grade. I don't understand." Allonin looked at his son, and with a smile, told him tomorrow they would go into the school and get this straightened out. Finishing their ice cream, he transported them back home.

The following morning they entered the school and went to see the director. After explaining the problem with him, he called a meeting of all the instructors. When all had seated themselves, the director asked for an explanation of the problem. Allonin sat and listened as each instructor gave the same reason for the grade given to Allen. There was an undercurrent of dislike for Allen and others that they called half-breeds. When all had finished and the last had seated herself, Allonin stood and looked around the room at them one at a time.

At last he spoke. "I know most of you are intelligent and well meaning tutors, but among you there is building a real dislike for the hybrids and some of the other races that came here for an education. Let me explain a little bit of what has happened over the years so that all of you could enjoy your lives and the success of this institution, along with the peace and tranquility for the rest of the galaxy. I will not show you the agony, pain, and loss of my humanity, nor the killing that had to be done for you, to avoid slavery and death. For those that foment hate and mistrust among you, let me tell you a few facts. I am the first hybrid and the rest are my offspring. We are trying to treat all "watchers" as equals and save you from extinction. Now to get to the root of the problem. If my son got all the answers right without showing the path of how he did it, you should be encouraging him to continue, not hold him back by refusing to give him the grade he earned. If anyone here thinks my son cheated in any way stand up and state your reasoning. As For the one or two who have perpetrated this into a problem; I know who you are and it stops here or you will suffer the consequences." Not a person in the room stood; and after a moment, Allonin told them he considered the problem resolved. If not, he would personally take those causing the problem to teach in a galaxy that thrives on slavery and murder. Think about it. Looking at his son, he smiled and hoped today would be a good day. He would see him at dinner tonight. Allonin smiled, nodded at the head of the institute, and bade all to have a nice day as he left the room.

Hence fourth, the institute not only changed for the better, it actually went out in search of students from other planets to think seriously about getting their education through this splendid and forward thinking school. Allen thrived and was second in his class. He took six months off and then applied to be tested for the Tri-rep corps. Not long afterward the second set of twins began to expand their field of vision and find out where they fitted in. Manara and Allonin continued having children and had them with them on the Command Mothership till they reached the age of ten or eleven. They were then sent to the estate and continued their education till graduation. The proud parents spent as much time as possible with them. As per the agreement, Allonin ceased his fathering duties with other female "watchers" after a period of ten years. In this five hundred year period, hybrid numbers had rocketed to almost eight hundred thousand and would surpass the one million mark in less than three years.

CHAPTER 3 Short Vacation

When the three month period of watching the perimeter and checking the warning satellites was done, they returned to Eden and put the Mothership in orbit. After spending a few days with their offspring, they decided to visit Mars city and see how the Humans and Monsatts were progressing. After transporting to the city center and looking around, they were quite surprised at all the changes It was now a quiet bustling city. Gone were all the noisy motors and honking horns. The inhabitants moved by anti-grav vehicles and moving sidewalks. Soft music could be heard which was pleasant to the ears. As they entered the center They stopped and stared. The statue of Andy was still in the center of the hall; added was a statue of Josh. A Monsatt teacher was there with a group of children explaining what each statue meant to Earth and Mars. Andy he explained was the mate of Commander Allonin; who with their team had saved the 2 planets and the human race. He then told the children about Josh. He was a brilliant scientist who also helped make Earth and Mars habitable again. He was also responsible for the genetic changes, working with the Head of medicine, Amie.

The instructor continued on and the two of them made for the council chamber. Knocking on the door, they entered and found the council debating the use of a new medicine for saving a species being ravaged by disease. The speaker turned as the door closed and with a squeal ran over and gave each a big hug. It was Amie. She thought she would never see them again. The news she received when out of the lab or OR made it seem as if they were no longer able to travel to Mars and Earth. The entire council sat there in stunned silence. Amie turned and patiently explained to them that this was Commander Allonin and his wife Manara standing in there presence. Most of the council had only heard about them and the effort made to keep this galaxy safe. They never expected to see them, much less meet them. The council leader came over and stated, " You are the father of Commander Allen who protects this quadrant, aren't you.?" "We are his parents". Manara said and told them Allonin was Commander Allen's superior. It was then, the Monsatts came forward; each touching their arm and thanking them for helping their race in their hour of need.

Allonin told them their visit was to see the changes that they had accomplished on both worlds. It was truly amazing what they had accomplished and how well both races had melded together. After a short stay they made their departure as soon as possible. Stopping for a day at Earth city 1, as the Monsatts and Humans now called their first city, Allonin and Manara were surprised at how fast the city had transformed into a vibrant and bustling city. Thanking each of the council for a tour of the city, they returned to Eden and spent a day at home just relaxing. The following morning, the elder stopped by and asked Allonin if he had heard the news coming in from the dwarf galaxy. He hadn't heard a thing, but was keen to find out.

CHAPTER 4 Trouble Brewing

Given a brief outline of what had transpired caught Allonin by surprise. A few transport ships had disappeared and an outpost had been completely destroyed. The elder asked Allonin if he would go and see if he could aid the Tri-reps in finding out what was happening.

Allonin said he would leave immediately. The elder thanked him and left to attend a meeting of Diplomats on that very subject. Allonin called Manara and she asked what the elder wanted. He said, "Alert the team; we are leaving for the dwarf galaxy at the a half hour ago". Messaging mother, he had her check if the Mothership was ready to go. She messaged back that all systems are green and ready to activate. Manara had their things packed in minutes and together they transported up to the Mothership. The team had just put the planetary ship in its cradle and were on their way up.

Once the Mothership was under way, the group met in the solarium and Allonin filled them in on the information he received from the elder. They had a little over a week to get things in tiptop shape. Allonin wanted everything running smoothly. Mother suddenly closed her eyes and whispered " oh no!" Everyone wondered what was wrong. Mother opened her eyes and announced that a Mothership had been destroyed. The seer on board messaged that most of the crew had made it out safely and were in the scout ships and the fighters. They had managed to get most of the fighters within the defense screens and had entered stardrive immediately. Luckily, nothing was in the way as they switched over. They were on the way back to the command center to make their report. The seer said it was a wise idea to have a secondary tank for the central brain to shift into when an emergency arose. Tell Commander Allonin we are truly in his debt for the idea.

Allonin quieted everyone, as he needed to concentrate. Sending out a message to the seer on that ship, he was immediately answered by a seer named Naomi. He proceeded to tell her he needed to know who the best pilot was in the fighter squadrons. She answered there were two. Tell the Commander to exit a light year away from where they were attacked. Have those pilots take their fighters at a relative high speed around the area the ship had been attacked. Do not use screens or engines. If they see any debree that looks alien, slow down, grab it and leave at top speed. Hopefully they will find something that will help explain these attacks. We will be there in about a week. I will expect a full report and will give the Commander my heartfelt thanks for bringing back as many as he did. saying goodbye to Naomi, he signed off.

"Well team, what do you make of this. What kind of ship could get past the shields, and cause a Commander to have to blow up his ship to escape" No one had the faintest idea. They had taken on the warmongers five hundred years ago and had only four ships disabled excluding Allonin's Mothership. Even so, it had disabled a couple ships when the Commander blew it up. They came up with all kinds of ideas. There was a simple way to blow each of those ideas out of the water. For four days they paced, met, and drank coffee to no avail. On the fifth day, tired and frustrated, they orbited the space station that was home for the Tri-reps in this galaxy. Before transporting over to the station, he told them all to take the day off and find something relaxing to do.

Upon his arrival at the commanders quarters, he was met by the Commander and ushered into his office. The Commander handed him a case with all the info on the outpost and ships that had been destroyed. While he was perusing the folders, the commander bought him a drink. Allonin asked if there was anything else on the problem. The Commander replied that the two fighters he had ordered back to the sight of the destruction had found a fair sized chunk of one of the ships that had attacked them. Allonin asked to see it immediately. The Commander had an orderly take him to the storage area and upon seeing it, Allonin touched it and immediately transported it to the Mothership. He asked mother to run tests on it and see if she could find any clues as to how it worked and send news to Eden he was bringing it back for the scientists to go over it. Going back to the Commanders office, he requested, "all ships stay away from that area and to shut down all outposts and bring Tri-reps back to base. Doesn't appear as shields are effective; so have the corps use the cloaking device and see if that helps. If not consider having all ships return back to base. I won't take up any more of your time and I want to get this object back to Eden. Good day Commander." Once back on board he Told mother to initiate cloaking device and return as fast as the ship could get there. In a little over eight days they were orbiting Eden and Allonin transported the alien material down to the science labs. From there he took the file on the loss of ships and outpost to the council chamber. He made a brief report and handed the file to the elder and left.

CHAPTER 5 Bad News, Good News

All was quiet for ten days; but Allonin knew it wouldn't last. At lunch on the eleventh day, a seer felt a problem had arisen. Upon delving deeper she found a planet populated by a non air breathing species had been attacked. A space station and a science lab had been destroyed. There were no survivors. Upon hearing this, Allonin and Manara went to the science labs to find out if they had found anything worthwhile in that chunk of alien material. They were directed to the a lab filled with scientists and engineers. All were clapping or patting the back of one of their people. One of the scientists looked over as Allonin and Manara entered. The leader of the group walked over and told him he had arrived at the precise moment they were to try a theory one scientist had come up with. He explained the artifact was in reality a space ship, damaged but usable for what they were going to try. They went into the large building and there it was hovering about three feet off the floor. The leader explained they had found the jagged edges worked like a circular saw blade. It could tear any material known to them to shreds in seconds. That left them only one option. Keep them outside the defensive shields. Over in a corner was a number of shield generators that had been ripped apart by this machine.

Dr Mintra thinks she has come up with the answer. Standing to one side with another small shield generator, she set it up and attached it to another unit. When ready, she flipped a few switches and told the operator controlling the alien ship to try and get through the shield. The little ship started spinning and speedily rammed into the shield, It bounced back like it had been hit with an invisible bat. The operator tried a number of times, but could not get through the shields. After the test, Allonin walked up to her and, with a hug, thanked her for all those in the Dwarf galaxy that she was going to save. " How does it work and how many units can you make in a week?" She thought a minute, then proceeded with this narrative."In simple terms, the alien ship senses the shields wave length, then matches it and slides through. Once inside it is programmed to attack the ship and destroy all life inside. When complete destruction has been accomplished, it travels to a set point and repeats the same process. When all living things in the prescribed area are dead; they as one return to home base. What I have determined is that a shield generator attached to a signal generator that changes wave frequency 10,000 times a second can act like a brick wall, so to speak." After seeing the test results, the scientific team said it would have at least a hundred units available when Allonin wanted them.

After thanking each member of the team personally, Manara and he transported over to the Council building and gave the elder and the rest of the council the good news. He planned to have all the units aboard and try to get there as soon as possible. He also stated that if a seer was available in the chamber, the council would be aware of the results as they became available. After they finished their report, they transported home to spend some time relaxing and meeting up with friends and acquaintances. He notified mother that delivery of a number of units would be shipped up to the Mothership this week. She was to store them in the Command ship. When the units were uploaded and secured, the elder messaged Allonin that everything was ready and he could leave at any time.. He messaged the team to go to the Mothership as they were leaving immediately. Once underway, he messaged Naomi they were on the way and to tell the Commander of the station to have the ships that were near and available to be prepared to have some alterations done to protect the Motherships from the attacks. Though by stardrive standards they set a new record to travel to the Dwarf galaxy, it seemed to Allonin they were creeping. At last they dropped out of stardrive and proceeded to the Tri-rep space station.

Contacting the Commander of the station, Allonin requested a team from each Mothership in port be in a conference room on the station in an hour to get the field generators and the installation instructions. The Commander of the station said he would have the teams in room 4 and they will be there at or before the time set. Holding the main cables of the units in his hands he was able to transport a dozen at a time. When all the units were in the room, he then transported #2 with the instructions for installation. Now was time to have a cup of coffee and wait for the teams to arrive. Using a mock up of the shield generator, they went through the process with each team on installing the field generators so there would be no chance of error. They spent another hour answering questions about how they worked. Just before they finished, Allonin got a message from a seer in the science lab that miniature units were in the process of being shipped so the starfighter ships would also be protected. Upon hearing that, the teams were elated that the fighters would have protection as well. In less than six hours the ships were off to relieve other Motherships so they could come to the station and be assigned generators. Word spread fast and it was bedlam in the station, The Commander let it go on for an hour, then put everyone back to work. Allonin's Mothership stayed in port until the shipment of generators along with the miniature versions were unloaded and teams were installing them. Word came by seer that one of the first ships to be equipped had come under attack. The shields worked as planned and the Mothership picked the little monsters off with ease. Unfortunately, cargo ships and ships not belonging to the Tri-reps did not have that protection. When these areas or ships were attacked there was complete destruction of all life.

CHAPTER 6 Ultimatum

With that news, Allonin requested a Mothership be assigned to him for a reconnaissance mission. The Commander saw no problem and immediately assigned one of the Motherships in port to him, with an announcement to the team on that ship, they were under the lead of Commander in chief, Allonin, till he relieved them to return to their respective duties. The Commander of the other ship (the Peronus), sent a message to Allonin that he had received his orders and awaited commands from his Mothership. Allonin sent a message he was transporting over and would give him the details of what he had planned. Arriving on the bridge he was surprised to see the Commander was a "watcher". He introduced himself and the Commander replied he was Commander Talon and was very glad to meet the man who had beaten the warmongers and sent them home with their lives and little else. From there they went up to the solarium and ordered their drinks. After getting comfortable, Allonin explained what he was going to try to accomplish.

With Commander Talon 's Mothership cloaked and new shield modifications on full, he was to shadow Allonin. "We will also have the shields on, but won't be cloaked. I need two of your best starfighter pilots ready on a seconds notice to come from behind and toss magnetic pads onto a couple of those ships. We won't fire till your starships have engaged their shields and started back to your ship. Under no circumstances is your ship to fire a single round. Is that understood? "Yes sir. If I might ask; What if you run into problems?" "We have an escape planned if needed. Our communication is to be by seer or the telepathy from the brains." After setting the course and departure time, |Allonin transported back to his ship and had everyone apprised of the plans. They would be leaving in about six hours and all were expected to relax and rest up. This operation could end up very badly and everyone knew it. As he got up from the meeting, they all agreed they would follow him to Hades if that was where he was going. And with smiles, they all went to find something relaxing to do.

Mother made everyone aware that the time to depart was in ten minutes. Allonin had mother send a message to Commander Talon with time and course to take. Mother had put the course into the computer and when the time came left the dock of the station and headed for the point to enter stardrive. In thirty six hours they arrived where the first ship had disappeared. Allonin took the ship on a circular spiral, acting as though they were looking for evidence of what had transpired when the first ship had been destroyed. After about twenty minutes, he sent a starfighter out to check on some debree. The starfighter spent about five minutes looking and then started to return to the ship. Just after passing through the shields, a swarm of little ships appeared. They reminded Allonin of a swarm of bees. Checking to be sure the shields and signal generator were active, he turned and started to leave. Commander Talon's seer notified Allonin that the two fighters were ready to launch. He then told the seer when the Mothership turned to face their adversary was the best time to deploy them and let loose with the magnetic tracers.

When he thought they were close enough, he turned the ship one hundred eighty degrees and waited. They were closing in in the shape of a wedge and unknown to them, two star fighters on their tail shot a couple magnetic pods. They hit and adhered to a couple of the alien ships. Seeing that, they swung about and returned to the cloaked Mothership. Commander Talon sat in his command chair and watched the collision of alien ships as they hit the revamped shields. Three quarters of those little ships had bounced off the shields and Allonin's team were raking them with lasers. After a loss of half of their ships they retreated and stopped. Mother told Allonin the pods on the ships that were hit with the magnets were sending a signal loud and clear.

After a few minutes had passed the alien ships went to a new heading and left. Allonin sent the seer a message that Commander Talon should follow him about a.. .25 light year behind. Within a few hours, the little ships had returned to their home world. Allonin stopped about a thousand yards from them as they orbited the planet. "Mother, can you get a fix on the point of origin for the signals from the planet to those ships." After a minute she appeared and, on a hologram of the planet, she pointed out the exact location. Closing his eyes and concentrating, he sent his hologram into that building.

He was surprised to find only two aliens in the building. He stood there silently waiting and soon one turned his way and saw him. After shooting at him a few times with no effect, they waited for him to say something. He messaged mother to send a translator unit down so he could start a dialogue with them. When he uttered a few words, they talked to each other and soon the unit was reacting to their words. with the basic language understood by the unit, Allonin informed them to relay this message to their leaders. "All attacks on the federation of planets would stop immediately or their race would cease to be. Heed this warning" He and the translator unit disappeared and left them to relay the message to those in charge. The Motherships turned and left the planetary system, heading back to the base. For a few weeks all was quiet. The Tri-rep fleet had started their rotation for keeping an eye on the various populated planets with no outward sign of a problem. One morning as Allonin was preparing to go back to Eden, He felt the start of all out war on some of the planets. By Telepathy he was able to reach some of the seers on Motherships that were near those planets. What he had feared had come to pass. Calling his team to get to the Mothership, he went to the station Commander and had another Mothership join him as soon as possible.

CHAPTER 7 Doomsday

A Commander Gnashoby of the Mothership " Triton" called and reported for duty with his team and were under the orders of Commander Allonin till he released them to return to the station. Allonin, not wanting to waste time, transported to the other Mothership and personally instructed them as to their duties. They were back up and were to stay ten minutes behind in case an alien vessel tried to sneak up on him. Keep shields at peak intensity and signal generator on at all times. Stay cloaked and keep a close eye on my ship. When We turn and leave the planet, you also turn and get out as fast as you can. Don't ask questions, just do it. If all goes well, we will meet you back at the station. With those orders given, Allonin transported back to his ship and had mother send the co-ordinates and time of departure to the "Triton."

Allonin took #4 and had mother meet them in the armory. There Allonin showed them one of the "dark matter" devices he had transported onto the ship before leaving Eden. #4 looked it over and concluded he had no idea what it was nor if it would work. This weapon was, and is, to be used as a last resort. As they explained to me, Once activated, there is a one hour delay in the detonation controls. We are going to send this down by a starfighter on remote control onto the alien planet and leave at all possible speed. If it works, these war happy aliens will be no more and peace will return to this galaxy. This is going to affect all of us to some degree. I expect to sit down and have a meeting of the mind with each and every one including mother. I firmly believe it was better to inform you of the strategy for ending this war, than have you surprised at a later date. We had better go sit down with the others and make this known.

After the talking had subsided, Allonin was asked how this "dark matter" differed from matter and antimatter. The only thing I can tell you is the device is round about twelve inches in diameter and when it detonates, it first reduces what ever it is in contact with and then explodes. The planet, according to the scientists on Eden, would become about a quarter of its original size and then go nova like an exploding sun. Hopefully our distance and shields will protect us. If not, we will have saved millions of lives by forfeiting ours. I've asked Manara if she wished to transfer to the "Triton" and she refused. Each of you has the same option. They looked at one another, nodded, stood and in unison stated, " where you go, we go." The time was fast approaching to be on their way.

After a light meal, Allonin had #4 attach the dark matter device inside the starfighter and set it up for manual delivery by him from the Mothership. At zero minus one minute the Motherships left the Tri-rep space station and just before stardrive started, mother synced the two ships a quarter light year apart and they were off to their meeting with the Aliens. After thirty six hours, the ships dropped out of stardrive. Allonin slowed down to enter the solar system. What he saw was frightening. There had to be close to a hundred thousand of those little ships circling the planet. By telepathy, Allonin opened the bay and proceeded to move the starfighter out side and on its way. Careful not to hit any of those ships on the way down, he maneuvered around them and sent the ship to rest on the bottom of a lake. Allonin Turned the device on and had everyone strap in. We must get as far away as possible in the time left to detonation. Mother, keep all sensors trained on the planet as we want a report on how this device worked. " Allonin instructed the seer on the "Triton" to leave as soon as possible if you haven't already. Just outside the solar system, Allonin slowed the ship and waited. He instructed mother to get all info on events for the scientists on Eden, then go into stardrive. As they watched, a large flash was seen and mother immediately entered into stardrive. There was a violent shaking as they left, but after mother assessed the ship in its entirety for damage, she reported only minor problems. On the way back they looked at the tapes and sat in awe at what they saw.

The planet started to shrink slowly and when about a quarter of its normal size it stopped. A bright flash followed and the planet was gone. Other planets in that solar system were moved out of their normal orbits. Smaller objects, such as asteroids and small moons, were turned into dust. In a year or two, the Tri-reps would return and tape the physical changes to the solar system and send it to Eden for scientific examination. Two days later they orbited the space station and relieved the "Triton" to go back to its duties for the Tri-reps. the team went over to the station for a twenty four hour layover to relax and get rested. Allonin reported to the Commander that other than a few alien ships that were not at the planet, all should be safe. Keep the shields and generators working for a week just to be sure. Leaving the Commanders office, Allonin and Manara checked out the station and found a number of things to do to relax. The following day they said their goodbyes and started for home. Allonin took the time to see mother during the three week trip to Eden to ask about the robots.

CHAPTER 8 Robots?

Sitting in the solarium, with a drink in hand, mother proceeded to give Allonin a short history of the "robots" as they were known by "the watchers". "The early experiments provided a human like replica that would handle the chores around homes and factories, and keep their cities clean. It became evident that the robots could work and run their factories. Become teachers and educators for their offspring. They were adept at filling the trade ships and running goods to other planets in the galaxy. At that time, they had but a few cargo ships: the ships being barren except for storage. They weren't much larger than the scout ships of today. All was well till a couple of ships went missing. One of the returning ships had detected a fleet of ships out at the edge of the area they normally used for trade routes. Sending out a ship to greet the new arrivals, they soon realized that their galaxy was in dire straights. The ship had been totally destroyed before a word could be sent. "The watchers" set about increasing the number of robots to make an army and build large transport ships. The robots fought well, but it was a losing battle.

After early battles with the race known as the warmongers,"The watchers"decided to leave their galaxy and find a safe haven elsewhere. To do this they would need many ships and would need to hold the warmongers at bay till they could all leave. The robots were then reprogrammed with a more advanced brain so they could produce the ships needed. Oh so slowly, "the watchers"gave ground to that savage race, but time was their enemy. It was plain to them that only about ten percent of the population could be put in hibernation in the ships available. In the end the savages made the choice for them. The warmongers broke through the defensive line and attacked a number of planets."The watchers gathered as many of their people as they could and each ship left in a different direction. A set of co-ordinates had been given to the computers on board those ships. When all that had managed to escape converged at that point in space, there were but ten ships. They waited a week, but no more ships came. All but a few of "the watchers" were in hibernation. Those that stayed awake made sure that all the ships were on the same path before joining those in hibernation.

After five years they were awoken by the computers and found they were less than a light year from this galaxy. slowly they made their way to what is now the planet Eden. By count, each ship had about one hundred thousand people. Billions of their race had been eradicated by the warmongers. Very few of the robots were with them. Ferrying those robots down to the planet to start building factories, they soon started producing more robots. Each new complex that the robots finished meant another twenty thousand people could be awakened and soon the entire race was on the planet and so started what you see today. For a time we watched and helped new races avoid the pitfalls of war. It soon became evident that ten ships were not going to be able to keep up. More ships were needed and many robots to keep them operational. They came up with advancements in brain tissue, thanks to a quiet, shy, research scientist. The robots could work side by side with whoever was to command these ships. That was when the tri-rep organization came into being. It was decided that this race of manufactured robots would not be allowed to reproduce nor be mated to the opposite sex. Over time they were refined till you see what they are today. Their life is still to serve and this makes them happy. Their mental skills are above the average human and, unless told, anyone would think they were humans. Following protocol, I sent reports to the council and scientists daily about the melding of the robots and their new Commander. As I saw changes in Andromeda, aka Andy, I felt that a very close relationship was developing and reported it. She was close to overstepping the bounds set by "the watchers".

Months before you ever asked to be mated with Andy, the council. had been debating the pros and cons as she was slowly going beyond the limitations that were set for all robots, but this gave our scientists data which showed there was no harm being done. From the first day, I sent reports on all four robots to the scientists to see how they melded with a new master. The reports ended after your first quadrant run. By then they could see a marked difference in Andy. She was the bar that caused the rest to strive to be better. She had mother send messages to the scientists, asking for an explanation of what she was feeling. They in return told her to continue, as she was doing fine. In the end she was more a woman than many of the female "watchers." All the traits, love, anger, happiness, sorrow, and wonder, were all new to her. She had to stop daily and try to understand these things you call feelings. And understand them she did. Do you have the rudimentary ideas behind the robots now? "Allonin thought for a minute, then smiled, nodded his head, and said " yes; but I never considered them robots."

"Truth be told, I feel for them because they cannot go with us to the next level. I also don't know if "the watchers" that are staying here can become what the race was a millennium ago. I shall talk with the elder and suggest he have the history of their race bought to the forefront of discussion to show them they have to regain that stamina and fortitude from their past. If not, they will be but a memory in a thousand years." Rising out of his lounge chair, Allonin left and went to his quarters. He sat down with a cold drink and pondered what was to be done with the robots once the Hybrids and "Watchers" were gone. He stretched out on the sofa and descended down to his inner core. A number of possibilities appeared as he watched the flame. He mentally grabbed one promising idea and looked at it from all aspects. This one just might work and he then returned to rise from his prone position to find Manara sitting across from him. Knowing where he had been, she waited for him to give her an indication of what his thoughts were. Taking a sip of his now warm drink, he proceeded to tell her his thoughts. " I was getting a history lesson from mother about the robots a little while ago. The thought crossed my mind that there would be an over abundance of robots after the hybrids and "Watchers" leave this plane of existence. I found a possible solution for this. Before I say more, I want to go speak with the leaders of the Galactic council. " Manara said this was more the business of the Council on Eden than anyone else. He agreed that she was right. He thought, on the way they should stop and talk to the Earth and Mars leaders before going to Eden. Connecting to a seer on Mars he relaid his need to speak to the leaders of both worlds within the next day or two. The answer was, meeting in two days at Mars city Council building.

CHAPTER 9 Meeting of the Minds

Allonin with Manara by his side entered the Mars City Council Building and went up the elevator to the meeting room. Upon entering the room, he was met by Josh, Alice, Amie, Commander Allen, and a number of Monsatt councilmen and council women. After everyone was seated, Allonin looked at each and started his narrative. "We will be heading into a somewhat large dilemma in the near future. The hybrids and I hope many of the " watchers" will be leaving this plane of existence. Eden will for the most part become a race of a few hundred thousand residents. This is the crux of the situation. What will "the watchers" do with over three million robots. There is also the robots that are an integral part of the defense force in two galaxies. I don't mean to scare you, but the safety of the two galaxies, will for all intent and purposes, fall on your shoulders. The melding of your two races into one has put you at the forefront in leadership. If you will accept responsibility for them, not only will I try to get " the watchers" to abdicate the robot project, but will try to get you all the processes used in providing them from inception to final product. You would get more in return than what you would expend and they would be happy to be a part of your world. The Tri-rep organization would also be a part of your world. In closing, sadly there are a few thousand hybrids staying behind. That, of course was their choice. My son, Commander Allen is one of those staying. Meeting his wife and children, I can understand why. The hybrids that stay will be of immense help to you in the future. Debate among yourselves and when you have an answer, the seer on board his Mothership will let me know if you accept. If not, I"ll have to try making other arrangements. Thank you for meeting with me."

Leaving the chamber, they went down to the street and before leaving, he transported Manara to that little ice cream parlor, that they loved so much, for a banana split. That is where his son found them. Getting ice cream for himself, he asked if they thought the human/Monsatt race would accept the proposal. Knowing that this would be a burden for a few years, he told Allen he wasn't sure. Another subject came up that had been bothering Allen. "Will there be any communication between us after you leave?" Manara took his hand and told him they would find a way to not only communicate but also see their children. It might not be in the physical sense, but their children would know their grandparents. Finishing their ice cream they left and took a grav car back to the pad where the ship was birthed. With hugs they parted and Allen left in the grav car to see if the meeting of the council was still in session. Leaving Mars City, and slowly speeding up, They switched to stardrive as they approached Pluto's orbit. Asking mother to have drinks ready they went to the solarium and stretched. out. Mother shimmered into the solarium shortly after the refreshments. Allonin gave her a short version on the meeting they and asked her what thoughts she had on the subject. Her answer was, it was a sound idea and would benefit all of them. He had one other thought and asked, if possible would she be interested in going to the next level with them? If not, would she be happy becoming part of Commander Allen's Mothership? Something very strange took place at that moment. Mother's normal blue hue turned into a rainbow of colors. Once she returned to her normal blue, Manara asked her what happened and was she all right. Mother thought she was okay, but the question caught her off guard and for a moment she was stunned by the offer. The answer to both questions was; YES, a thousand times yes. Allonin told her he was working on both ideas and as soon as he had an answer he would tell her immediately. Before leaving she told him she wished he had been a Tri-rep a thousand years ago. The last five hundred have been astounding and she faded away.

CHAPTER 10 Shocking Good News

Half way to Eden Allonin got a call from the seer on Commander Allen's Mothership. Once linked up the news was as follows; Amie and Josh had made an Earth shattering discovery. Working on gene splicing they accidentally came up with a number of chromosomes that were unknown in either culture. However, they would work the same in humans and monsatts alike. They had stumbled on the way to rid themselves of disease. Life would be measured in thousands of years instead of hundreds. a spin off was that human and monsatt minds would double the amount of brain that could be used. That would put them on par with "the watchers" and a few other races in the galaxy. Before breaking the connection, Commander Allen said to tell you The council voted yes to your proposal if it comes to pass. A week later they orbited Eden and transported down to the estate. The rest of the team would follow after making sure everything was ship shape. they barely had time to say hello to the staff when a call from the elder came for them to be at the council chamber immediately.

Wasting no time they transported to the building and entered the council chamber. The elder along with the rest of the council looked agitated and very nervous. Nodding to each, he asked what had them so nervous. The elder said a seer had a premonition that something bad was going to happen very soon. Your daughter has also checked with the seer and sees the same sign. A seer assigned to the council entered and had news that the warning satellites had sounded the alarm. There are over a thousand ships heading for this galaxy from the same direction as the warmongers had over five hundred years ago. Did the satellites give a time frame for arrival? Within two weeks give or take. Looking at the council, he stated the obvious. We go to a war footing immediately.

CHAPTER 11 War

"I must return to my ship and make sure everything is starting up and hopefully get to deployment status asap." He and Manara left and transported up to the ship. Mother attach the amplifier to yourself and send " Red Alert" to all ships. Get the mothballed fleet out of storage and get the teams on them and moving. Our seer will give you the co-ordinates where we will meet this armada. I will send out the alert to the hybrids and they will be aboard our fleet shortly. Manara, get the monstrosity of a ship loaded with the children and scientists same as last time and have them go to the dwarf galaxy. Under no circumstances are they to leave that ship, as they may have to make a long voyage to yet another galaxy.

Hour by hour reports came to the ship and mother kept Allonin updated every minute as to plans already in place. In no time fifty hybrids had come aboard and reported for duty. It would be a week and a half to two weeks getting there. In that time he checked out his people on the plans and how to execute them. The practice had them transporting down to the command ship from the open room he used to use for meetings with "the watchers." They practiced sending holograms of themselves around the ship and homed in on mother and the arsenal on board. He yelled, he screamed and after a week he apologized, but he wanted them all to go home safely. They were his children and he worried about this war and the effects it would have on them. For those that didn't know the history of his past meetings with the warmongers, he told them all what transpired and the weight he carried for the killing he had to do to keep our galaxy free. We will be joined by the fleet that was mothballed a century ago and the warships from a number of races that are part of our union. He expected at least a thousand hybrids to be there when we arrive and thousands more will be coming. We're not sure, but the seers estimate at least two thousand ships are in that fleet. How many are warships, we don't know. But we do know this. Every ship in that fleet must be scrap metal when this is over. If we succeed in total destruction, I will be asking for volunteers to go to their galaxy and remove every last one of them forever.

Two days from the edge of the galaxy and reports came in that about twelve hundred ships would be there. Unfortunately, about five hundred ships with slower drives would get there a day later. As the day came to arrive at the co-ordinates, a message came from a seer on board one of the picket ships. They were under attack. Mother notified Allonin that three ships had been lost with all aboard minutes afterward. Allonin's approach to the coming battle was simple, but might catch the warmongers by surprise. He divided the Motherships into three groups and positioned them to a three pronged attack. Half of the starfighters were held back and once the Motherships engaged the enemy they were to swing around behind the enemy and attack from the rear. The hybrids that had the power to use holograms were to go to the enemy ships and find the arsenals. once that was accomplished, they were to occupy the ships crew while another hybrid transported to the armory and set a timed bomb to go off in two minutes. They were to stick to the ships in the middle as the motherships would be attacking the front and the edges of the enemy fleet. Within minutes the battle had started. Allonin had mother try and find the ship that was directing the enemy fleet. Mother pinpointed the ship on his vid screen and closing his eyes he sent his hologram to that ship. Much to his dismay the armory had been distributed among their attacking fighters so he couldn't blow the ship up. Returning to his body he then transported to the enemy ship and fried the brain that was maneuvering the ship. With the loss of the brain all course changes had to be done manually as well as firing weapons. Allonin sent a half dozen starfighters to attack that ship. After what seemed like an eternity, the lead starfighter sent word the ship was dead in the water and was about to blow up. Allonin called the fighters to go back to their previous positions and continue the attack.

The odds were just about even as far as fleet size and Allonin thought they had won, but suddenly everything they launched at that fleet bounced off and exploded harmlessly out side their shields. The enemy had a new defensive array and nothing they had could stop them. Suddenly Allonin's fleet was being forced back. the enemy once more had the advantage. He sent a message to the seers on the ships still in transit not to advance as they were taking casualties. He could not come up with any idea how to stop them. Suddenly a light went on in his brain. Sitting back and closing his eyes he sank down into his core and stood in front of that flame; his essence. Floating into its center, he let options go by on how to save his people. Almost to the point of giving up his answer came to him as clear as a ray of sunshine. Climbing back up to his earthly body, he sent messages to the fleet to back away slowly. When he again sent a message, they were to turn and make the best speed possible away from the enemy.

Allonin went down to the armory and found what he was looking for. A small black ball about the size of a basketball. Attaching a timer to it he told mother to send out pulses so he could find them and to put all their energy into the shields. He then faded from view. He landed in an aisle on a ship in the middle of the their fleet, and luckily no one was there. Going into the first door he saw, he set the device down and set the timer for two minutes. and armed it. He sent his hologram to the flag ship of their fleet and stood behind the leaders on the bridge. He cleared his throat to get their attention. As they turned, he told them they should have listened to the last crew he sent back. Now they were destined to oblivion. Bringing the hologram back he sent the message to the seers and transported back to his Mothership. "Mother, get us out of here as fast as you can. A rather large explosion will happen in a minute." Allonin checked the vid screen and saw his fleet had turned one hundred eighty degrees and were racing away. Checking the screen for the warmongers, he timed it right to see that fleet squeeze together and then blow apart. Whatever that new defensive screen was, it held most of the destruction inside and very little damage was done to Allonin's fleet. Within minutes the light and smoke disappeared and there was nothing left of that fleet.

CHAPTER 12 Ending War, Once and For All.

Having his fleet slow to a stop , he sent a message to all the hybrids to pick one from each ship to come to his mother ship. Roughly a hundred and fifty came to a hanger and sat down. Allonin asked them to reach out to all the ships, including those that had been held back, and ask for volunteers to accompany him on the trip to rid the universe of any and all warmongers still alive in their home galaxy. Unfortunately, we can only use hybrids for this exercise. Go. When you reach three hundred volunteers, we will use my Mothership and two others for this mission . Calling the Commanders of the battle group, he asked for two Motherships to go and consider a crew of one hundred hybrids per ship. Within minutes he had his two ships. He asked Manara to return to Eden with Commander Allen. He would stay in touch somehow. She objected, but He said he couldn't afford to lose another love. When all was ready the three motherships left and headed for the warmongers galaxy. Pushing the engines as much as they could, it took almost eight months to reach their target. Using the map from Allonin's memory, they methodically started from the outside in and gave assistance to those that had been subjugated be the warmongers. Planet by planet they wiped the hated race off the face of each planet. When they finally came to the planet that had caused so much upheaval, Allonin had a starship loaded with another dark matter bomb . By remote control he sent the cloaked fighter down to the planet and sank it in one of their lakes. The three Motherships left the planet and at the edge of their solar system they watched as the planet blew up . They had bought a few reps from some of the terrorized planets to see the end of their misery. They dropped each rep at their planet with a promise that the galaxies would meet on a friendly basis. When the time came, they would set up a space station half between the galaxies and contact them with the co-ordinates where they would set up treaties for the mutual benefit of all. Seeing as they had no telepaths nor seers, it was agreed "the watchers" would send an envoy to each planet and gather representatives to a meeting aboard the space station. After a layover for rest, it was time to leave.

Heading back to the milky way, they were relieved that finally peace and harmony was theirs. It took a little over three years, but was well worth the time and effort. Allonin had mother hook him up to the amplifier and he sent word to Manara they were on the way home and never again will the warmongers be a problem. After eight months they finally orbited Eden. Transporting down to his home he was met by Manara, and #1,2, and 4. He took the time to shower and shave, have a short meal and see the staff before Manara and he went to the council chamber. He gave a brief report on the mission and also brought up the subject of refreshing "the watchers" memories of what their race was like before coming to this galaxy. They needed to wake up and start living again or they would be gone in a thousand years. He said he would be back in the morning as he had something else to discuss with the council. They left and had a quiet evening at home. They both vowed to never be apart again for long periods of time.

CHAPTER 13 Manara's Family.

Sometime during the night, Allonin awoke with a start. Something was wrong, but he couldn't put his finger on it. Without getting up he lay back and relaxed. Closing his eyes he ventured down to his core and stood before the flame. Entering it he thought it might give some clue to the unease he felt. But nothing surfaced. Feeling at ease and comfortable, he relaxed and stayed awhile. It soon became evident that he wasn't getting anywhere. so back he went to that beautiful girl that was sleeping next to him and fell asleep. A soft kiss to the cheek woke him up and taking his hand led him to breakfast. After seating themselves, Manara said she had a surprise for him. He noticed that two more plates had been set down; then Manara called softly; mom, dad, breakfast is ready. As they entered Allonin stood and shook hands with both as Manara introduced them. He must remember their names; Vernal was her dad and Celine was her mother. During breakfast he found out that her father was an industrial big wig and her mother was a scholar at the university in the next city east of them. They spent most of the day with idle chat and after lunch her father asked about a tour of the Mothership. Not wanting to be seen as overly protective of his pride and joy, he said why not. With the four touching hands He transported them onto the ship. Mother appeared and asked if something was amiss but Allonin said all was well and he was seeing that Manara's parents got a look at a Mothership. After a brief tour of the areas allowed, they proceeded to the solarium for a drink and relaxation before returning home. Vernal remarked it was quite the ship and often wondered why they had never made space yachts for the rich to travel to different planets. Though both Allonin and Manara were council members, They had no idea if it was ever proposed. Celine on the other hand was impressed with the ship and amazed at the size of the vessel. Allonin told her this ship was only two thirds the size of an ordinary Mothership and was just the right size for them in their travels.

CHAPTER 14 Robots, Puzzle!

After a good nights sleep and a hearty breakfast, they sat down with #1.2. and 4 to get a feel for what Allonin had in mind for the robots. He laid out the picture as it now stood and offered up what he thought was a good idea. The day was coming when the hybrids were to leave. In fact, after the council meeting , he was going to start looking for a suitable planet for a debarkation point. He also pointed out that "the Watchers" could be part of the exodus. It would be up to them whether to leave Eden or not. With the hybrids it would also be by choice. This change to a higher plane was to be totally voluntary. He felt that the human/ monsatt races would be replacing "the watchers" as the prime drivers in the two galaxies. Humans and Monsatts were a majority of the Commanders on the Motherships. They, too, had seers that were invaluable on those ships. The genetic changes in the two races was improving their use of telepathy and it was only a matter of time before one or the other showed signs of instant transport being viable for them. It was almost instantaneous when they all came to the same conclusion. It would seem to be better to align the robots and all scientific work and manufacturing of them with the human/monsatt world. After a short pause as all thought about it the heads started nodding. That is what I plan to address the council about today. Sending a mental call, he asked the elder if the council was available for a meeting. Answer came, they were already in the chamber. "Cross your fingers; here goes." After Manara took her council seat, Allonin went to the center of the u-shaped table and stated his idea and the reasons behind it . When he had finished, he said there was no hurry and to take a hard look at the prospects he had put forth. The elder stood and asked Allonin about the alien race in the dwarf galaxy and had it been totally destroyed. In answer he replied they were leaving immediately and would report back as soon as he had the final answer.

Heading back to their home, Manara said she was fairly certain they would accept the plan put fourth for aligning the robot population with The human/monsatt races. Checking the estate and insuring all was okay, they all headed for the Mothership. Allonin and Manara transported up as #1,2,and 4 brought the planetary ship back to its berth in the hanger. Signaling mother as he entered the bridge, he made it known they were heading for the dwarf galaxy. She replied that the co-ordinates were in the command chair's computer. They left orbit and headed for the edge of the solar system; entering stardrive at that time. With almost two weeks with nothing important to do, he had mother set up maps of the dwarf galaxy in his office on the vid screen. She new that he was up to something and she would know what it was in good time. Manara came by and brought him a drink along with a sandwich. She also knew when the time came he would explain what he was up to. With mother checking in and Manara taking him to the sauna and hot tub daily, it slowed him down; but finally he had what he wanted. Sitting down with mother and Manara, he gave them a brief explanation of what he was up to. Using the chart of their path to the Tri-rep space station and imposing it upon routes that the Motherships used to check their areas, he had come up with an area he wanted to check out for a debarkation planet for the hybrids. So, for the next couple of days, he was happy to spend all his time with the team .

Inserting the Mothership into an orbit around the space station, he told the team to go ashore and enjoy a twenty four hour leave. Taking Manara by the hand he transported them to the entry to the Commanding officer's duty office. Knocking on the door a voice said " come in Commander Allonin". With a grin he opened the door and followed Manara into the office. Knowing what Allonin was there for , he handed him a disc and a brief case full of material. The short version is we came across about a hundred of those little alien ships. they were circling around an area, but going nowhere. all have been destroyed . We haven't seen one in months. He told the Commander this was good news and hoped there would be no more problems. If there is a reason for my team to be here again, a seer can reach me, twenty four, seven. Upon leaving the office, Allonin asked if she was up for hot tub, sauna, and champagne. A wicked little smile gave him his answer. As they got ready to enter the sauna , he messaged mother not to allow anything or anybody to bother them till morning. At eight o'clock, ships time, mother chimed and ordered breakfast for them. After donning robes, they entered the living room to the news that everyone was aboard and ready to go, at their pleasure.

CHAPTER 15 Planet Hunting

Shortly before noon, they messaged the space station they were leaving orbit. Mother had put the co-ordinates in for their search and after reaching the edge of the solar system they entered stardrive. moving at the slowest speed they were within the area after a ten hour cruise. Allonin had mother move them to the center of the search area and drop out of stardrive. Turning the sensor array on full spread , they started their search. Hour after hour they spiraled outward. Manara said, after another planet was rejected, it was time for dinner. Having mother take over the watch, they all went to the dining area for a meal and a little relaxation. Asking the three robots about their downtime, he was surprised to find out the three of them were considered hero's by the robot population as well as the station in general. It was considered a stroke of genius getting rid of the aliens and their attack ships. Now the dwarf galaxy planets could explore and expand their civilizations in peace. It's always nice to be appreciated laughed Manara. #1 offered to take the first watch so mother could spend time checking the ship for problems. Not being tired Manara and Allonin took the second watch. #2 and 4 each took the watches after that. After waking and taking a shower, Allonin and Manara sat down in the living room and had breakfast. Mother chimed and appeared as they were getting the plates and silverware put into the cleaning unit. What brings you to our suite so early asked Manara. Mother sat down and coyly asked if they would like to see a marvelous planet that fit the criteria of their search. Exiting the living room through the door onto the bridge, they were stunned by what was centered on the screen. The sensors read it as a planet about the size of earth's moon, oxygen and nitrogen was abundant, gravity, about .7 of norm, and no inhabitants. Plant and animal life was abundant, water was up to standard rating. Temperature was 82degrees at the equator. In all respects it was exactly what Allonin was looking for. Mother, put all info into memory along with co-ordinates from here to Eden. "All done and done ", she replied. "Lets go down and have a look", said Manara. And with that the two of them transported down to the surface. They had picked a spot near the shore of one of the continents and was surprised there was no salt in the ocean. Allonin messaged mother to have #1,2,and 4 come down in the planetary ship to see what paradise looked like. Then mother appeared and was sure they were on Eden when the first motherships had arrived. Mother stated the obvious, this was exactly what he was looking for. "Ready to head home?" she asked. They immediately set off on the journey home.

CHAPTER 16 A Divided House

After two weeks they were orbiting Eden and were happy to be home. They got word Commander Allen was up for his R&R month and would be home in a day or two. Tabitha asked if a party would be a great way to welcome him home. Manara called Mother , and she was there in a flash. "Tabitha thought a party would be a great way to welcome Allen home. Would you like to give her a hand in setting it up?" Mother was so excited she started to glow. " I'd love to" was her swift answer. Allonin was busy preparing for the meeting of the council later in the week. As he sat there , the feeling of something not right came again. He settled back into his chair and went into his core flame and watched as information passed by. He was ready to leave when Tabitha appeared in front of the flame. He exited and asked if there was a problem. She looked at him and a thought passed from her to him; You feel a foreboding in your mind also.. He nodded his head and told her he couldn't pinpoint what was to happen. Just as he said that a sharp pain entered his mind and he knew a hybrid had died. She also felt it. Come into my study when you return to the earthly plane. She disappeared and he rose to awaken once again. Closing the door as she entered, she asked if he knew who it was. He shook his head as his eyes watered and she saw the agony in his eyes. Trying to keep from crying, she said the party would be canceled. and started to leave. "No, things will be okay by the time Allen gets here." Manara came just as Tabitha left. "I felt a void just now. Is it what I think it is?" "Yes, one of our children has died." A seer called from the next city over and relaid the news that a Hybrid had been assassinated. "I'm sending word immediately that all hybrids are to have their shields activated until further notice." He then looked at Manara, opened a drawer and slipped a belt around her waist. "Turn it on and under no circumstances are you to remove it till I get to the bottom of this. Find Tabitha and make sure she also has a shield belt on and energized." Manara left to find Tabitha and Allonin messaged mother to make sure the message got out and all hybrids were on Red Alert. The following morning word had spread a hybrid was dead and authorities were looking into the death. That evening The guests for the welcome home party arrived and were shown to their rooms. There was to be only about a dozen there for the party ,but only those from outside the city were staying with Allonin and Manara. The last to arrive were Vernal and Celine. Allonin received a message from his son he would be there in an hour.

When Allen entered the house, a lot of noise and hugs caught him by surprise. When things quieted down all were ushered into the dining room for the party. It was nearly midnight when they finally broke up the party and the guests left. The family decided to have drinks on the patio and settled into chairs and divans to go over events of Allen's latest trip around the quadrant. There was nothing of import to go into. He liked a routine trip. Vernal asked Allen if he had heard the news about the assassination of a half breed. over in city 2. It got so quiet you could hear a pin drop. Before anyone had a chance to say anything, Allonin walked over and told Vernal to come with him. Taking him by the arm, Allonin marched him out into the garden so they would have privacy. Allonin looked straight at Vernal and said, " how did you know the death was an assassination. Vernal replied, "it was the news of the day."Nothing in any paper or broadcast said anything about an assassination. Furthermore, it was a hybrid, not a half breed." You antagonized me for a reason; what was it. In answer , he said, "to get you alone so my wife and daughter would not be in the line of fire. Allonin's aura started to expand and turn golden red.

Off to his right he heard a slight noise, but never took his eyes off Vernal. Vernal started to reach inside his jacket and Allonin told him he would be dead before he touched the weapon. Stepping to one side he saw two "watchers" standing at the edge of the garden. Reaching deep inside he brought the flame to its highest intensity. He glowed like a small sun and a sudden blast left the two men a pile of ash. Turning to Vernal, He said , "I hate to do this ,but you leave me no choice." Walking over, he placed his fingers on Vernal's forehead and knew instantly this was the uneasy feeling that he had felt the last couple of days. Removing the weapon from inside Vernal's jacket, he escorted him back to the patio. Vernal sat like a man meeting his doom. Allonin laid the weapon next to Allen and turned to Celine and Vernal and told them what will transpire in a short period of time. "The council will be made aware that there are a number of "watchers" that wish to eliminate the hybrids entirely. I wanted to wait until I had the chance to make it known the hybrids are leaving to go to the next higher level of existence. Furthermore, the "watchers" would not be left behind.

The opportunity to join us is not mandatory. Each and every one will voice whether to come or stay That includes the hybrids. Vernal, I know you are part of this so called resistance movement. From your mind I also know the other leaders. This will be revealed tomorrow at the council. But right now you and Celine will tell me whether or not you will go with us." Vernal jumped up and said they were not going. "Evidently, you did not understand or were preoccupied. Each one will voice whether to go or stay. Vernal, your choice". He said he was staying. "Celine, your choice." "What about Manara and all the grandchildren" Manara said she would follow her husband. Vernal started to say something, but looking at Allonin, he changed his mind. Celine said she was going. "Then I suggest Vernal, you leave now and don't come back. Celine, you will be our guest till we leave. You should also know Vernal the minds of your accomplishes gave a great amount of information on your group." Allonin then walked him to the door, opened it and pushed him out. Manara looked at Allonin as he reentered the patio and said he didn't have to transmit what took place in the garden. He replied that by doing so there was no question in anyone's mind what had transpired. looking at Celine, he said he was sorry she had to see that, but I can't pick and choose who should see a transmission. She told him she had feelings something was wrong a few months back. "Do you think he really would have killed his own daughter for being married to you?" "I can't answer that question. Know that Manara is considered the mother of the hybrids and go from there."

CHAPTER 17 The Council

Before going to bed he messaged the elder to have the council there in the morning. There were very serious things they needed to know and the sooner the better. Allonin had four Tri-reps keeping a close eye on the house that night. A light kiss on the nose woke him up the next morning. Manara had a way of putting a smile on your face, no matter what the circumstances. Handing him his robe, she took him by the hand and led him downstairs to the dining room. They hadn't been served yet and in walked Celine to take a seat next to Manara. As the housekeeper arrived with breakfast in walked Allen. The housekeeper asked what he would like for breakfast and he said the same as everyone else and sat down. During the meal Allonin told Celine she was welcome to go with them, stay here, or if you have other business to take care of, a pair of Tri-reps would be accompanying her while outside the residence. Celine looked at Allonin and asked why she needed them. "I don't want to alarm you, but I saw more in Vernal's mind than I had expected last night. These people Vernal has been associated with have no problem eliminating others that don't agree with them. Till we get the debarkation point set up, I want you, Manara, and all the hybrids safe." Saying that, Allonin rose and excused himself to go get ready for the council meeting. Getting dressed, after his shower, he came to the conclusion The only way to be sure of everyone's safety was to bring it out into the open and make those responsible know that should anyone be harmed or attacked these leaders would be found and executed for treason. Whistling as he came down the stairs, he was met by Manara and her mother. Both would be with him today. Taking each by the hand, he transported them to the council building.

Upon entering, he had Celine sit in his chair which was next to Manara's. Most of the council members were already there. As the last arrived and took their seats, Allonin went to the front of the table and asked that no one interrupt him till he was through. " Last night an attempt was made on my life. Two "watchers and my Father-in-law made the attempt. The two assassins are no more. Vernal was about to reach for a weapon, but stopped when I told him he would be dead before it cleared his coat pocket. I walked over and put my hand on his forehead and was dumbfounded to find there is a serious movement to eradicate the hybrids. I want the council to know that from his mind I gleaned the names of all the leaders, the place where they are setting up an armory, and the people who are not hybrids they intend to assassinate. The leaders who are in this room may as well admit their membership and know if any harm befalls anyone on this list, I will see you executed. When I have finished you will have a choice to make. "

"The second item I want to make clear is this. I have found a place for a debarkation point and all hybrids are aware of it. We have also found that any" watchers" that wish to elevate to the next level of existence will be welcome to come with us. Each hybrid can transport up to six watchers to this utopia when we go. It will be your duty to find out how many want to go and who wants to stay behind. If more than 50% of you wish to join us I have to ask that you put the robots under the care of the human/monsatt planet and give them all the information on producing them. I don't see as a couple hundred thousand watchers or less needing two million plus robots, not including those on the ships of the tri-reps and trading ships. Human and monsatt, alike have agreed to this and each can help the other make this a better galaxy. It is now time for all in this room to make the choice, go or stay. That includes those in on the conspiracy. Those that wish to go will need to stay and those wanting to stay on Eden should leave." No one left. "When the day we are to go to the staging area arrives, a hybrid will come and transport you to the staging area. You need not bring anything with you. All we need will be there already. If you have questions, ask them now.

"Is this to be a one way ticket? "The councilor that asked stood up and looked a little dazed. Allonin smiled and told him, once there, you will never want to come back. He went on to ask about homes, food, transportation. Again Allonin told him He need not worry. A second councilor stood and asked what to do if his mate didn't want to go. Allonin repeated the statement, "it is a personal choice for each. This way there will be no finger pointing later or blame put on anyone's shoulders." Another stood and asked what is the time line; months, years, decades? To answer that question it will depend how long it takes you to get answers from the population. I shall take responsibility for watchers on Motherships and the dwarf galaxy. This will take about a week to ten days. The elder walked over and placing a hand on his shoulder said, "if anyone else came here and stated what you just said, I would have serious doubts. As your crew once said, I will follow you to Hades if you ask". After that, Allonin with Manara and Celine following, left.. Once outside, he turned on his private shield and punched the 3rd button. Ladies, as long as you are within fifteen feet nothing can harm you. It was too nice a day to go home immediately, so they walked around for a while and settled into chairs at a coffee shop and enjoyed a cup of their favorite blend. While sitting there he received a message from Allen. A prominent industrialist was found dead this morning at his residence. His wife was at his daughter's residence and will be notified shortly. Allonin looked at Celine and taking her hand, gave her the news. Taking Manara's hand he transported them home. As Celine started up the stairs, Allonin said that anything she needed was hers for the asking. Manara followed her mother up to her room. A little later , Manara came down and said she had given her mother a mild sedative and she was sleeping. He walked over and gave her a hug and as he let her go she said "you are going to the dwarf galaxy aren't you?" He nodded his head and said with luck he would be back in forty eight hours.

CHAPTER 18 Replacements

Closing his eyes he pictured the Commanders office on the space station. He carefully opened one eye and then relaxed and opened the other. He heard a crash and as he turned around there was the Commander looking at the floor where he had dropped his drink. Allonin smiled and told him that was the first time he had tried to transport from Eden to the dwarf galaxy. The Commander called an orderly to clean up the mess and then told Allonin to please send a message when he was going to do that. After they shared a short laugh the Commander asked what he needed. I can communicate with the hybrids from here, but need to know where the Command "watchers" are located and if they have a seer on board. The Commander told him to contact the hybrids and he would have the info for the "watchers" in minutes. Sending mental notes to all the hybrids about the exodus, he was surprised that all were going. Also if you have any "watchers" on board that are seers, find out if they plan on coming also. I will have replacements for everyone once I have an actual count. Will take about a week and they will be on the planet of debarkation. You can transport them to your ship and meet me at the planet when this is done. The Commander came in and reported they only had two "watchers" as Commanders and their seers were Humans. Taking the sheet he messaged the first seer and gave her a message for the Commander. Within a minute the answer came back ; yes! The second was a repeat of the first. Come immediately to the station and replacements would be there. He then told the station Commander tomorrow there will be two replacements for the watchers. " Bye for now", and he was gone.

Returning home he found Allen and Manara chatting on the patio. That was quite a sensation transporting from here to the space station in the dwarf galaxy. Manara looked like she was going to faint. Sitting down beside her he asked what the problem was. She thought he was going to hop to Mars, then a checkpoint between the two galaxies, and then onto the space station. She had no idea he was going from on place to the other in one jump. She didn't think it was possible. Just then Celine came out to join them. What, Celine asked, was not possible. Manara explained to her mother that Allonin had went from home to the tri-rep space station in the dwarf galaxy in a single jump. After Celine did a little mental calculation, she looked at Allonin and said ,"you are an amazing young man". She then took a large sip of her drink and just smiled at him. Allonin told them that all the hybrids in the dwarf galaxy will be going along with two "watcher" commanders. I haven't got the numbers yet, but I'm sure there are enough replacements for them.

Two days later he had the numbers and transported to Mars city and explained his need for twenty Commanders for the hybrids and watchers in the dwarf galaxy. The council touched base with the nearby tri-rep facility and made the neccessary arrangements. The two replacements for the watchers were present in short order. Allonin said, "gentlemen we are going to the space station immediately". Placing a hand on their shoulder, he closed his eyes and again pictured the commanders entry door. The two commanders with him looked a little pale, but otherwise in good shape. The commander was standing by the door and thanked the two officers for their timely arrival. The commander told Allonin the two "watchers" were down in the mess hall having a bite to eat. Saying goodbye to the three of them he headed down to get his travelers and go to the debarkation planet. With them in tow he had his team on the planet take care of their needs and again went back to Mars city. Sending out a call to local hybrids he soon had a dozen standing in the council chamber. Also there, was the twenty replacement commanders. "Okay gentlemen, touch the shoulders of a couple replacements and lets make tracks to the planet."Dropping them off, he messaged the hybrid commanders to leave their Motherships and come claim their replacemnts. Once all were installed in their respective Motherships, the hybrids were to go to the planet to help ready the area for incoming travelers.

CHAPTER 19 The Phantom Shadow

Coming back home never felt so good. Allen had to leave for his next eight week check on his quadrant the day before Allonin got back. He did, however, leave a tape for his father to see. He watched it twice before He messaged Allen that he would see him before they left for the planet. He went downstairs and had Manara catch him up on the latest news in Eden. When Celine came down, they retired to the patio. Celine was almost back to normal. The death of her mate was not as chaotic as Manara and Allonin thought it would be. She was cheerful and said she was ready to return to the classroom. Allonin told her the time was short before they were to leave for debarkation. She was returning so that she could have something to do to keep her mind occupied. Manara leaned over and gave her a hug; telling her she understood. Celine arose from the chair and gave Allonin a hug and thanked him for all he had done for her. Manara followed her mother upstairs and soon returned to tell Allonin she had transported her mother back to the university, She had also noted a few tri-reps around the area trying to look inconspicuous. Allonin chuckled and told her, Celine would have bodyguards till they were ready to transport.

The last few weeks had been a nightmare. Manara suggested they make use of the sauna and hot tub, with a drink to go also. It seemed like a great idea and said last one in is a rotten egg. She was adding water to the pit before he entered. "Guess you're the rotten egg", she said and laughed as she thought of him covered with broken eggs. It was a fun afternoon and slowly he relaxed and enjoyed remembering the days when he sat and studied her as she went about being the perfect mate. Five hundred years and she was just as stunning as the first time he saw her. Little did he know his life would be this good. Feeling water splashed in his face brought him back to reality and there she sat with a twinkle in her eye. "Where did you go", she asked. "Back to the first time I saw you. Little did I know then what an amazing woman you were and still are." It was time to exit the hot tub and dry off. Hand in hand they went to get dressed and have dinner. After dinner, Tabitha and Manara left for the city to enjoy a little girl to girl time. Allonin decided it was time to visit his essence and see if the shadow would show. Soon he was in front of the blaze that was his essence and for once everything looked normal. The area near the flame darkened and there was the phantom. That eerie voice came into his mind and gave him a mental slap on the back and said, "well done. Looks as though you will soon be with us, though it will be a short time till we leave. Relax and open you mind completely, there is much you need to know of this plane. The watchers did much to elevate themselves to this plane. They fell short because they lost the initiative to strive forward. They just plain got lazy. You came along and have now, with your hybrids, given them the opportunity to get to the next plane. You and Manara are now the leaders. I hope you don't get lazy What you accomplish with those races you leave behind can earn you the rite of passage to where my race is going. This is the task that awaits your race. If you succeed, we will be there to greet you Now on with the basics you need to know. In a very short period of time he was aware of all that place offered. Thanking his benefactor as he disappeared, Allonin returned to his bed where he had been before. The girls were back and he could hear laughter as they went out to the patio. He arose, splashed a little water on his face, and went to join them.

"Well, looks like you two had a busy day", he said. There were a number of bags from the different places they had visited. Manara reported there was a distinct change in the people on the steers. Some were overjoyed and others looked sad. Allonin told them this was the way it will be till we travel to the planet. On a brighter note he asked if they would like a peek at where they were going. Both looked at him with a questioning stare. "Open your mind and I will show you what the phantom showed me. As they relaxed, he sent a picture of what was in store for them. "What you have seen is but a glimpse of our future. Mother once told me there was a belief that the elves, who went back to their home world, had a touch of magic. This is way beyond the stories she related to me. If there is a paradise, then this is it." Both, mother and daughter, looked at him with astonishment. "Is it really like that " Tabitha asked. "Yes, yes it is", he answered. Both sat back and closed their eyes to rerun that picture through their mind again.

CHAPTER 20 The Council

At noon the following day, Allonin was messaged to be in the council chamber within the hour. He and Manara entered the chamber and except for the councilors the room was empty. Fearing defeat, he took a deep breath and went to the center of the table. The elder stood and smiling gave him the numbers of those going with the hybrids. Ninety two percent of the race were going. That left less than a hundred thousand to live in Eden. It was also received by a landslide to turn all scientific information over to the human/monsatt planet. They would also be in charge of the Tri-rep organization. It was splendid news for all involved. Before leaving, he had the council open their minds and he sent the same information to them as he had to Manara and Tabitha earlier. The look of awe on their faces told Allonin all he needed to Know. With a smile, he and Manara left and transported home.

Once there, he sat down and messaged the seer on Commander Allen's Mothership. She said she would get the information to the commander and he would be in touch with the council that represented Earth and Mars. He also sent word that the new Commander in chief of the Tri-reps and the defense corps was to be Commander Griffen. Saying good bye, he broke the telepathic network. Fearing that those staying behind might make trouble, he had another thousand hybrids report for defensive security in each of the four cities. He also messaged the two bodyguards with Celine to bring her back to his residence. He told Manara, he wasn't taking any chances knowing the kind of people that belonged to that group that tried to assassinate him and the life of the hybrid they took before. He had mother notify all the hybrids the number of "watchers" that were also going with them.

CHAPTER 21 Mother

The last thing he had to do was attempt to make mother a part of the exodus. Transporting up to the Mothership, he had mother join him in the solarium. What is the situation down on Eden. "Ninety two percent are going with us. Ninety nine.five percent of the hybrids are also going. The other half percent know how to join us in the future if they choose. Now, it's time for you. I believe I can make it possible for you to also go. Are you game to try? " "As the saying goes, I'll follow you to Hades if you ask."

"This may take a try or two, so be patient", he said. "Try to relax and allow me to enter your mind. Scanning Mother was like scanning a library. He searched and searched and was about ready to quit when he found this empty spot in the very center of the brain. Settling in, he very carefully enclosed an energy bubble around a spark in his essence and removed it. Very carefully he set it in the very center of that barren spot. He very quietly asked mother to concentrate on this spark near him and see if she could enlarge it. He waited and waited, and as he was getting ready to admit defeat, the spark started ever so slowly to build. He told mother to be careful as she didn't need a bonfire or an explosion. When he was satisfied it would work, he came back out.

Once all was back to normal, he explained to mother that the fire was her essence. She should from time to time go into her center and check to be sure it was of a fairly good size. Three feet in height and three feet in diameter should suffice. She was still not sure what he had done. He explained that she now had a part of him and they were tied to each other through eternity. You can come with us and leave the material you behind. She appeared in front of him and she looked like all the colors of the rainbow were fluctuating through her. "Are you sure?" she asked. His answer left her dumbfounded; "you can't go,I can't go." "Why in the would you do this, Allonin" ? Again he answered; "You've been with me over five hundred years and should know the answer. We are Family". With a see you later, he was gone.

After returning home, he told Manara what he had done and she looked at him, then looked again at him. You never cease to amaze me. After a minute, he told Manara they had another duty to fulfill at this time. Taking her hand, he closed his eyes and pictured Commander Griffen's bridge on his Mothership. As they materialized, there was a gasp from one of his team. Robert turned and smiled at seeing Allonin and Manara on his ship. Robert turned and gave the bridge to his #1 and took Allonin and Manara up to the dining room. Looking at Manara , he asked if she could call Betty to join them? "She is on the way", Manara said. After Betty arrived, they got down to the reason for the visit. "Robert, as of now you are the Commander in chief of the Tri-reps and the defense forces. My son Allen already knows and has sent messages to all parties involved. Handing him a set of gold bars, he stood and saluted him and congratulated him on his promotion." Robert looked at the bars and said , " these are real, aren't they?" Allonin quipped, "yes,yes they are."

With that over, they settled in for a little celebration. Allonin told him "there are things you should know; Earth and Mars are now in charge of the robots and the scientific means to produce them. Next, we will be leaving within the next six months. Third, there will be less than one hundred thousand "watchers" left on Eden. Robert, keep a close eye on them. Have at least two hybrids on your team at all times. The malcontents on Eden Tried to eliminate me and did kill a hybrid. You should have your personal shield turned on whenever you are out in public. If you need advice or help, call for my son, Allen. Also know that humans/monsatts are the leaders in this galaxy after we leave." "Good luck Robert" Manara said. They said their goodbyes and transported home. " Well, husband of mine, what's left to do to finish this"? Manara asked. "I think we're down to the exodus. How about a skinny dip in the pool?" She laughed, but was up and running out the door to the pool before he had time to stand. Instead of running back into the house naked, he transported them to their bedroom to dry off and get dressed when they exited the pool.

CHAPTER 22 Exodus and Ascension

Allonin sat in his office on the Mothership and contemplated the things that could go wrong during the exodus to the planet and the ascension to what he believed was utopia. Mother shimmered into view and sat across from him never making a sound. "Mother" he said, When I was a boy I grew up on a farm. We had all kinds of farm animals and pets. There was a special place that drew me . It was on the bank of a stream about ten feet wide and the water was so clear You could see the fish swimming on the bottom. I often wondered how deep that stream was. I found a tree branch and removed the small limbs and struck bottom with it in the stream. Pulling it back out I realized the water depth was more than twice my height. I never ventured into the stream, cause I didn't know how to swim. I never tried to catch the fish. It was more fun to watch them. Our ascension to that plane above reminds of that time in my life. That time was almost utopia for me as a boy. I couldn't go back to that place in time nor will we be returning to this life." Mother then said to him, " that is a good analogy, but has one exception. Here you will be doing just the opposite; going to a utopia instead of leaving it behind." He thought for a minute then said to her, "now you know why I was taking lessons from you. Thank you."

Over the course of the next two weeks he gathered the numbers and places that needed hybrids to transport the ones that were going with them. Sitting down with mother, the calculations went more smoothly. The totals though large were manageable. There were nine hundred fifty thousand "watchers" and one point two million hybrids to get to that planet. The largest numbers came from Eden. He thought that fifty thousand extra hybrids would be sufficient to handle any problems. Having one hybrid taking two "watchers" would not put a strain on them. Setting up one hundred check points at fifty yards apart, with two ten foot squares in each, we can transport six per block, six hundred at a time onto the planet and moving them to the next block transport them to their new home. Using seers to send a signal when to transport the next group using numbered colors ( red,1 for the six hundred, red,2 for the next six hundred) repeating after reaching ten should make a workable solution rather than trying to move over two million at once. We should be able to completely finish in less than twenty hours. The hybrids will have to select one of a hundred patterns set in the squares with two hybrids and four watchers per block. . He had the council distribute the color and number and the place to be at the time for their transport. One hundred squares were set up in the country side. Buildings were set aside for hybrids to transport off world "watchers" to Eden. "The transport will start in one month" said Allonin.

During that month , the hybrid population were apprised of times and places and drew lots for their number and pattern. They also started bringing off world "watchers" back to Eden. Allonin spent time with Commander Griffin and his son, Allen, to smooth out any questions or problems they weren't sure how to handle. Taking Allen aside one day, he gave him a pattern to draw the next time he went to his essence. His son looked at him with a puzzled look on his face. " That said Allonin is the pattern your mother and or me will home in on to keep in touch." "Will this really work?" Allen asked. "We can't be sure, but it is the best way we could come up with. And one more thing; when the children are old enough, you bring them also or your mother will have both our hides." A hug from his son and then he transported back to Eden.

As the time neared for transition, there were a number of attempts on the lives of hybrids without any success. The council and other high profile "watchers" were given hybrid protection and soon the assaults dwindled down to nothing more than nasty remarks. The day before the start of transport, those going went to the assigned spot and waited. At dawn the next morning, Allonin contacted the seers on the transfer planet and Eden to start. There were very few problems. Mostly, someone wanting to take something special with them. As the last hour started Allonin went to find mother. Laying his hand on the tank he transported it to the transfer planet. "Mother , he said, you and I will be the last ones to go. I will mentally take your essence along with mine and we will join the rest in our new home." Manara walked over and joined them. The three of us will go together. At last it was time. Allonin looked around at the barren area that was a bustling sea of bodies a few minutes ago. He then closed his eyes and they left.

CHAPTER 23 Meeting The Phantom

There was a light shimmer and the three of them had arrived. Looking, first at each other, then at themselves, they still had their bodies, but they were more like opaque than flesh. Mother looked at herself and exclaimed " I am the same as when I was a hologram." "Yes said Manara, but you are no longer living in a tank." Turning around and around, Mother said " this is awesome. Allonin, I'll always be in your debt. You have done the impossible." She then floated over and gave him a big hug and a kiss on the cheek. As they surveyed the surrounding area, they couldn't help but laugh. The mixed race of hybrid and "watcher" were acting like kids at a circus. The elder floated over and told Allonin he was now the leader and they would have none of his excuses. Over two million souls had voted unanimously he was the one to lead. "Let's hope we can continue as we are today ", replied Allonin. The ex leader told Allonin, "We have strived for a place like this for over eighty thousand years and you gave it to us in a little over five hundred." To which Allonin answered, "you must remember, that at death's door your race took the chance of bonding my blood with Manara's, so any changes were the effort of your people as much as mine."

There appeared a dark cloud in the sky that seemed to hover above them , As it dropped down bodies appeared that were dark and ghostly. Allonin floated over to a bare spot on a knoll and waited. One of the bodies separated from the cloud and dropped down next to Allonin. Then that voice entered his mind that bought back the memory of that sandy beach and the ocean. It was there, he had first heard that voice. " Welcome said the phantom. We are extremely happy that you have finally made the journey." "I, said Allonin, am glad I finally have the chance to meet you in person. Shall we have that long awaited talk about this place and what the expectations are in the future. It took awhile to cover the basic ideas, but Allonin felt that in time they could succeed. As they finished, Allonin asked him his name. " Allonin, you couldn't possibly pronounce it, so while we are still here among you, call me Ezera.".

Upon returning he spotted the elder coming his way. He stopped and waited for him. "Allonin, I have a question for you." "I will answer any question you have if I have the answer, he said" What would happen to "the watchers" if the hybrids came to feel we were excess baggage?" Allonin placed a hand on his shoulder and said; "your blood runs through my veins and my blood runs through theirs. Manara's blood runs through many of them also. If any turn their back on you, they turn their back on me and Manara. This family will never be divided. You have my word." "Thank you. he said; I will spread the word to those that were hesitant about coming."With a smile he floated away humming as he went. Allonin looked out over all the people and truly felt that all would be fine.

CH 24 Epilogue;

All of the children that mother had tutored for Allonin and Manara were waiting to once again be with the one who had taught them so much. Off to the side Allonin and Manara watched. "This, Allonin said, is one of the best days we've had in a long time." Together they sat and relaxed, knowing they had a larger area than before to keep an eye on. Knowing they could be anywhere in this universe in seconds, made life a lot easier. Allonin looked at his mate and was surprised that she glowed on a par with him. A short time later, they pictured that pattern they had given their son, Allen, and were extremely happy that they could and would interact with him and his children. Allen was to be what Allonin was to the phantom. Like the phantom, he couldn't voice exactly what to do, but could give him hints. That was one of the basic rules of this new life. Hopefully, one day, his son would do for the race of man and monsatt what Allonin had been able to do for the "watchers". In the meantime, he had a lot of living to do with Manara and, of course, mother. Yup; life was good.

The End ###

About the Author

I was born in upstate |New York and moved to a number of residents in my early years. In 1986 I met my soul-mate and in 1999 we retired and move to a small town outside of Nashville, TN. To keep my mind from going stale and a little prodding from my wife, The first book came to life. With a lot of help from her and our daughter Beth I got the first book finished.

Book 1 The Tri-rep

Book 2 Trial by Fire

Book 3 Ascension

