 
# Bad Boss

## Lolah Lace

**BAD BOSS**

By

Lolah Lace

Copyright © 2020

By

Lolah Lace

www.lolahlace.com

Cover Design by LLPro

* * *

**CLICK TO SIGN UP!**

Subscribe to Lolah Lace's mailing list to receive my email newsletter for the latest news, freebies, and Advanced Reader Copies.

This eBook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This eBook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

Lolah Lace is no way affiliated with any brands, songs, musicians, public figures or artists mentioned in the book.

All rights reserved.

The unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this copyrighted work is illegal. No part of this book or its text may be reproduced or transmitted, downloaded, decompiled, reverse engineered in any form, including electronic or mechanical, without written permission from the publisher, except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical articles or reviews or without the express written permission of the publisher.

This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, businesses, places, events, and incidents are either the products of the author's imagination or used in a fictitious manner. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, or actual events is purely coincidental.

# Contents

Explicit Adult Content

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Chapter 9

Chapter 10

Chapter 11

Chapter 12

About the Author

Lolah Lace Novels

# Explicit Adult Content

This book is considered Romantic Fiction with erotic and elements. This is for mature audiences only. This book contains profane language, mild violence, extreme sexual situations, and adult themes.

# Chapter 1

I hated waiting around. Today I had to wait for my mother to pick me up from work. I felt like I was back in high school. Here I am, a twenty-eight-year-old woman waiting for my mother to pick me up. I could've gotten an Uber but my mother would've died if I wasted any money. I still didn't know how much it would cost to fix my piece of shit car.

So instead of getting home at a reasonable time, I had to wait around until she got off from her work. I had to hang around my job for an extra hour. It was a ghost town here at Trubeau Technologies.

Instead of sitting in the lobby or the cafeteria I stayed in the mailroom. I didn't want anyone to see me here after hours. I felt kind of stupid just hanging around. I knew it was all in my head but I thought people would know I didn't have a husband or a boyfriend. Maybe they would ask me why I didn't call an Uber. Who knows? I think too much. It's my business, not theirs. So, who cares?

I had my head down in my cell phone when I looked up and saw him standing above me. It was Jerry Fletcher. I made sure I remembered the name of every employee I had come into contact with since I started this job.

Jerry worked upstairs somewhere. He was a very thin man in his fifties. He was losing his hair, but he didn't seem to care. He came down to the mailroom a few times a week, but he never said more than good morning to me. He only talked to Martin Turner, my stuper-visor, I mean supervisor.

I wasn't sure what Jerry did at this business but I knew he was an important person at Trubeau. This company had only employed me for six months. So I was quite sure he didn't even know my name.

My area, the mailroom was in the basement and the big wigs never came down here. They sent their secretaries to handle whatever packages they were shipping or picking up. I knew nothing about the mail operation although I worked in the mailroom. I was a purchaser. I made sure there were enough printer paper, staplers and office supplies nice and handy.

I hoped I wasn't in trouble. _Why would I be?_ I couldn't recall doing anything I wasn't supposed to be doing. I was always a model employee at every job I ever held. If he was looking for Martin he was out of luck. Martin rarely ever stayed a minute after five.

I watched as Mr. Fletcher's eyes scanned the room. There wasn't much to see in the basement.

"Hello." He spoke first.

"Hello, Mr. Fletcher, did you need something?" I stood because it felt strange to be sitting.

"Yes, maybe. Are you the last one here?"

Clearly, I was. "Yes, it's just me. My car is in the shop. I'm waiting for my ride to come to pick me up." I didn't want to tell all my business, but I was feeling a little nervous all alone in the mailroom with Mr. Fletcher. I needed to give him an explanation for why I was the only one still at work after six.

"Huh, well it's a good thing for me you had a little car trouble." He smiled warmly but I couldn't return his smile because I didn't know where he was going with his odd comment. "Your name is Robin right?"

_Shit, he knows my name._ "Yes, Robin MacDowell."

"How long have you been working here?"

"Just about six months."

"Things working out so far?"

"Yes."

"I'm here in the mailroom because I was hoping someone would still be hanging around and supervisor Turner isn't here?"

"No, he's already gone home for the day." We already established that I'm alone. "Did you want to leave him a message?" I didn't know what good it would do. It was Friday. The work-week was over.

"No, that won't be necessary. Maybe you can help me."

"I can try."

"One of our employees quit her job without any notice."

"That's not good."

"Terrible actually. I have this position I must fill as soon as possible."

"Oh."

"I guess I can offer it to you since you're the only one here."

"Okay, am I qualified?"

"I'm sure you are. The position has weird hours. I know I'm not supposed to ask this but do you have children but—?"

"No, I don't have any children."

"That's good, only because this job would take up some of your free time. It has unconventional hours."

I had nothing but time. I wasn't in a relationship. I didn't even have any prospects. I stopped going to the library book club meetings months ago. I was free as the breeze.

"Robin, let me cut to the chase. Do you know Andrew Trubeau?"

"The man that owns this company?" _Why would I know him? Hello, I work in the mailroom._

"Yes, he runs and owns Trubeau Technologies."

"I've never met him."

"He needs a personal assistant. The last assistant quit without proper notice." He said that already.

"That was very unprofessional." I didn't know what else to say.

"Yes, it was, but Mr. Trubeau has a hard time keeping assistants."

_Why?_ "I've never been a personal assistant before."

"It's technically not hard at all. You get his coffee. You get his lunch. You shadow him when he has meetings. You take notes. You basically just do what he asks."

"Sounds simple enough."

"It is. It's not the work. It's more of rather or not you match up, work ethics and personality wise. Normally, Mr. Trubeau has two personal assistants. There's Sharon Rudd, she is more of an administrative assistant. You would be a runner, an on-body personal assistant. You would work closely with Sharon but you would probably have more personal contact with Mr. Trubeau. Sharon works nine to five from her desk. Your hours would be up to Mr. Trubeau. Is this something you would be interested in?"

_Not really. But I couldn't say that._ "Yes, I'm interested."

"Good, very good. So this is a salary position. You'll make eighty-two thousand per year. Full health benefits, life insurance, and a few other perks."

I tried to stay stoic when he rattled off the salary amount. Eighty-two thousand dollars was almost triple what I was currently making at this company. I was screaming on the inside but playing it all the way cool on the outside.

"There's no probation period because you're already an employee of the company. It's like a promotion."

It was more than a promotion. It's a life changer for me when it comes to salary. All I had was an old car and an expensive apartment. I wanted to be a homeowner. If I could do this job I might end up getting my little boring life in order.

"I'm definitely onboard."

"Great, I can get all the paperwork together and you can start on Monday."

"What time do I start?"

"For the first day go straight to Trubeau's office. Be there at eight A.M. I will send an email to Sharon Rudd. She will have all of your paperwork. She'll take over and tell you everything you need to know Monday morning."

"Where is Mr. Trubeau's office?"

"He's on the tenth floor, corner office."

"Thank you, thank you for the opportunity."

"It's not a problem. I actually think you'd be a good fit for Mr. Trubeau's team."

"Thank you."

My cell phone buzzed. I knew it had to be my mother. I didn't look down at it. I didn't want to be rude to Jerry. He had just given me an upstairs job, right out of the blue. He had just put money in my empty pockets.

So many things in life were random. I happened to be at the right place at the right time. Running around getting coffee can't be that hard.

It was nice to have good news. I couldn't wait to tell my mother about my fantastic promotion. I was moving out of the mailroom. I kind of thought I would be here forever.

"Is that your phone?" Jerry inquired. He could hear it buzzing.

"Yes, it's probably my ride."

"Oh, by all means, take the call. I will see you on Monday. Just report to Sharon Rudd on the tenth floor."

He said that already. "I will be there. Thanks for this opportunity."

"Thank you for being onboard. See you on Monday."

Jerry left me standing alone in the mailroom. I wanted to scream, but I had a fear of hidden cameras. I held my excitement and called my mother back. She was waiting in the parking lot. I grabbed my purse and left the mailroom. I so hoped this worked out. I needed this.

# Chapter 2

My weekend was pure bliss. I picked my car up from the shop on Saturday afternoon. I was five hundred and thirty-two dollars poorer because of it. I didn't care as much as I should've. That was because I had a new job and my first check would make up for the repairs.

Saturday night I went out for dinner and drinks with my close friend Michelle. I helped my mother in her garden on Sunday. I was pretty excited when I woke up on Monday morning. I made sure I got eight hours of sleep before my big first day.

My confidence cloak was on and I was feeling good. My hair was blow-dried straight. I had it down. It hung right at my shoulders. I wore minimal makeup, and I tried to make it look natural.

When I arrived it was just as Jerry said. Sharon had all of my paperwork. I signed all the standard documents. I even signed a non-disclosure agreement. I knew this was standard with big companies. I didn't think I would have any corporate secrets to sell but who knew what I would be exposed to as a personal assistant.

Sharon Rudd was an older woman. She appeared to be in her late fifties. She had dark blonde hair she had pulled back in a bun. She looked like she belonged in a library instead of this office. It wasn't an insult. She just seemed very nice and helpful. She was warm to me. I really appreciated that because being new usually sucked. Jerry stepped into the office. I'm sure to make sure I showed up. I could tell he was relieved to see me.

Sharon's office was the first room you came to once you exited the elevator. I had my own smaller office down the hall. I had a desk in the mailroom but it was in a huge room with no privacy and with nine other people.

I only had a few minutes to sit behind my desk and gaze out my window before I had to go meet and greet my new boss.

Andrew Trubeau was thirty-two and a self-made millionaire. He was also easy on the eyes. He acquired a few small companies, combined them and made Trubeau Technologies. I Googled my boss. There weren't many things online about him. I knew he wasn't married, and he gave to various charities. He also made Forbes Top 500 most successful American Companies list.

I was a little scared and excited about my new job. I wanted to impress the boss because I wanted to keep this job. It paid three times what I was making in the mailroom. Something I couldn't really stop thinking about.

I was dressed to impress in my dark gray Calvin Klein suit and matching pumps. I felt like I could do anything. I strolled down to the end of the hall. The boss' office took up one side of the building on the tenth floor. It was a bit more than just a corner office. His door was open so I walked into the spacious room.

The boss' office was huge, bigger than my entire one-bedroom apartment. His office was decorated like it was straight out of Elle Décor. The luxurious space was spotless and astatically pleasing to the eye. It must be nice to have money like this. I knew I had the right office because this floor only had a few offices and a large conference room. _Where was Mr. Trubeau?_

"Who the fuck are you?"

My heart jumped at his booming voice.

There he was walking out of a door I hadn't even realized was there. Maybe it was a bathroom. He looked like his pictures, tall, White, with bright blue eyes and dark brown hair that was strategically disheveled. He was well dressed in a dark designer suit. He looked like a rich guy even with his five o'clock shadow.

"Hello, who the fuck are you?" He repeated his bad-mannered question.

"Robin MacDowell." I decided against extending my hand since he was being a Grade A, Whole milk, jackass.

"Why are you in my office?"

"Jerry Fletcher sent me. He, ah, hired me." I stumbled over my words.

"He sent you?"

He snickered, as he looked me up and down. I didn't know why he held so much disdain. I looked presentable. I had on my best office suit. My hair was clean, neat, flat and office acceptable. I was pretty damn cute today. He'd better recognize.

I decided to ignore his rudeness. I needed this coinage, and I wasn't going to let some rich prick rattle me. "Yes sir, he sent me."

"Why would he send you to me?" He pointed at me and pointing is rude.

"I'm sure he had a good reason. He said your assistant quit without notice."

"Huh, that was a week ago."

"Mr. Trubeau, do you have something for me to do?"

"Don't get comfortable. I don't think I want you here."

"Really, I haven't messed up yet."

"Yet." He raised one of his dark eyebrows.

"I already work here. I came from another department."

"Is that right? I've never seen you. Where did you work?"

"The mailroom."

"Is that in the basement?"

"Yes, sir." I'm sure he knew that already. Maybe he didn't.

"I don't care. I don't think you'll fit in up here."

"I don't understand. What's the issue?" _Especially because I hadn't even spilled coffee on him or misplaced an important document or forgot to schedule an appointment._

"The issue is—"

I knew it wasn't because I was a woman. All of his previous assistants were women. Sharon told me that much earlier.

Fuck it! I might as well state the obvious. There are only four point five minorities working at this company. "Is the issue that I'm Black?"

"You would love that just so you could sue me for racial discrimination."

"I'm not trying to sue anybody. I'm just trying to do my job."

"And what's that?"

I didn't understand his hostility or his dumb questions. "Jerry told me I was going to fill the position of your on-body personal assistant."

"I'm going to have a talk with Jerry."

"In the meantime, do you have a task for me?" I nervously smoothed my hands down my skirt.

He paced the floor as I waited for his answer. "You can leave now if you're weak. I'm a tyrant. I'm very demanding. I'm an asshole. If you can't cut it, you can leave now."

_I need this check. How does the asshole take his coffee?_ "I've had lots of experience working with tyrannical, demanding assholes."

He chuckled, and it made him less maniacal. "If you do anything I don't like you're out of a job."

"I'm fired?"

"Yes, that's what it means to be out of a job."

That's drastic. "If this doesn't work out, I can't just go back to the mailroom?"

"You would do that?"

"Yes, sir."

"Don't call me sir. Call me Trubeau."

"Okay, Mr. Trubeau."

We both just stood there staring at each other. He hadn't fired me or dismissed me so I was pretty much a lady-in-waiting. Or a prisoner of a stupid office war.

"So what's your name again?"

"Robin MacDowell."

"The first thing you need to do is wear better clothes." I couldn't help but look down at my attire.

"There's nothing wrong with my clothes."

He raised a lone eyebrow. "If I say there's something wrong with your clothing, then there is something wrong."

"Okay, my clothes are hideous. What would you like for me to wear?"

"I didn't say they were hideous."

"No, you didn't. My mistake."

"You've met me. Do you think you will last two weeks as my assistant?"

"Yes, I know I can." _I'll just go cry into my pillow every night._

"Positivity, that's a start."

"Yes, it is."

"I'm going to give you my company credit card. You'll need it to make purchases for me. First, I need you to buy clothes that make you look like you belong at this company— like you belong with me. I need you to leave the office and go to the mall. Oakbrook Mall is just a few blocks away. You need to buy two weeks worth of clothing. You said you can last two weeks, correct?"

"Yes, I can."

"We'll see. Buy enough outfits to last that long. I don't want to see you in the same thing twice within the two-week period. So make sure you buy enough items to cover ten days. No, make it fourteen days. I'm not that picky about the shoes but they have to be heels. A woman your age in flats looks like she doesn't care. The appearance of my company is very important to me. You don't have to buy ten pairs of shoes if you don't want to. It's entirely up to you. You have three hours to shop for yourself. I need my lunch on my desk at exactly one o'clock. I'm not a vegan. I'm not a vegetarian and I eat gluten. You can pick my lunch today only. It's your first day. Don't fuck it up."

"I won't fu— mess it up. Are there any stores you prefer that I shop for the clothes?"

"Neiman's, Lord, Macy's, Sak's, whatever women's designers are at the mall. Get a few handbags to match and a fifteen-inch black laptop bag as well."

"What is the spending limit?"

He chuckled. "Do you really have time to look at price tags? You have three hours to buy ten, fourteen days worth of clothing and then you have to hightail it back here with my lunch, the food you hope I will enjoy."

My heart was doing cartwheels inside of my chest. He named every expensive store in the mall. It sounded like I didn't have a spending limit. There must be a catch. He's probably going to say I stole his credit card and went on a shopping spree. That's just too sadistic. He couldn't have time for that idiotic bullshit.

When the job is over, I probably have to give the clothes back. That would be stupid. I heard things about Andrew Trubeau but I never heard anyone refer to him as stupid or cheap.

Mr. Trubeau reached inside the top drawer of his desk and handed the company credit card across the desk.

"I can trust you."

"Yes, your company does background checks on its employees and we are also fingerprinted."

His top lip curled. "That is true." He placed the credit card in my hand. "Don't buy a house."

"There's enough on the card to buy a house?" _I probably shouldn't have said that._

"You will have access to an Audi. The car belongs to the company. Therefore, it belongs to me. Do not damage my vehicle. There's a car waiting for you in the underground parking garage. Sharon will give you a key."

"I've never had a car accident."

"I don't care about your driving history. Take care of the things I lend you."

"Yes, of course."

"I still don't think this is going to work."

_Duh! Don't think about it._ "I'm sure it will." I pressed a smile out of my anti-smiling lips.

"You certainly aren't anything special."

"I wasn't trying to be special. I'm just trying to do my job."

He raised an eyebrow at me. I had a slick mouth, and that wasn't going to change. Sure he was the boss but I've had plenty of bosses in my life.

"Were you issued a company cell?"

"Yes."

"I can track your whereabouts from the cell and the car."

"Okay." I involuntarily shrugged.

"Leave my office."

I scurried out of his office. He wasn't that bad. I was lying. He was far from welcoming. He was a big-time jerk. But who cared? I needed _mucho dinero_.

# Chapter 3

I was supremely proud of myself. I got through day one without a scratch. Trubeau talked to me like I was gum on the bottom of his shoe but I ignored him. He ate the lunch I bought for him with no tantrums or protests.

Bossman didn't give me much to do on the first day. I wasn't complaining. I was counting my blessings and chilling. I was thankful for this promotion. I had a new wardrobe and an eighty thousand dollar Audi I was allowed to take home with me.

Monday was a breeze, so I hoped Tuesday would be the same. I got to work on time with his special coffee. A vanilla bean latte prepared just the way he liked it. When the tyrant texted me with one word—coffee, I knew I had to get off my ass.

I hurried down the hall to give him his premium blend cup of Joe. Maybe vanilla bean made him act civilized. I was going to soon find out.

His office door was open, so I entered. He was standing with his back to me. He was looking out the walled window and out into the world. Before I could speak—

"I don't give a fuck!" I saw his cell phone up to his ear. He wasn't talking to me. "You tell him to get his shit together or look for another goddamn job. No, fuck that! I don't give second chances."

I loathed rich, rude assholes and Mr. Trubeau was that in a nutshell. I actually didn't know any rich people, so that wasn't true at all. I wanted to back out of the room without being noticed but he had summoned me to bring his coffee. This wasn't a life-changing dilemma but at the moment I didn't know what to do. Did he want the coffee or did he want to shout profanities into his cell phone?

I kept my eyes on his firm backside. He had a really nice ass. I tried not to stare, but I didn't have anywhere else for my eyes to land. His back was broad and muscular. I could see how fit he was through his blue button-down shirt. His hair looked darker than yesterday. Maybe it was wet. I didn't really get a chance to inspect him yesterday. I was too nervous. I was just trying to survive his hazing or whatever that silliness was.

It was wrong to look at Mr. Trubeau the way that I was. Like he was a real man, a dateable man— a sexy man. So I quickly looked down at my new shoes. I took a tiny step backward. He didn't even know I was there. I could just silently exit. I could make a run for it. I was going to just come back in a few minutes.

"Where the fuck are you going?" I stared up from the carpet and right into his arctic blue eyes— eyes that jumped out against his tan skin and dark hair. In a millisecond he was in my face. _How did he get to me so fast?_

I wasn't able to think when he was so close. He gave me an evil glare. _How could an evil glare be that sexy? Magic?_

"I was going to just come back later," I whispered. He was clearly still on the phone.

"Give me my fucking coffee. That's what I pay you for." He waved his hand around in a dismissive way before turning his back on me.

_Bastard!_

I put his java down on the desktop.

He strolled around his desk and dropped his toned ass in his black leather chair. He spun it around. I guess so he didn't have to look at me. Not a problem. I didn't want to see his ass either.

This would be the first time in my life a man was so blatantly impolite to me. There was only so much abuse I could take. I didn't like him cursing at me. He hadn't really reached the limit with me. I could take a bit more of his stank ass attitude before I kicked the shit out of him. Money was money. I needed money. If I could just get through the first week, I'm sure he would simmer down. As long as he sees his bullshit doesn't affect me he will calm all the way the fuck down. Hopefully.

You would think having money would make you a nicer person. No way, not Mr. Trubeau. He was a real jackass. He better be glad he has his good looks and his money to fall back on. Without those two key elements, he wouldn't be shit.

I was back at my desk in no time flat. Something was going on. He was going off on someone and I was glad it wasn't me. I had a few tasks on my second day. I had to get his lunch. This time he had a special order. I picked up his dry cleaning. I scheduled his hair appointment. I sat at my desk and binge-watched a few episodes of Safe on Netflix.

I would have a much harder day tomorrow. Trubeau let me know in an email I had real work to do on Wednesday. So far, I still liked this job. I didn't have a problem running around like a chicken. I hated being cooped up in the dank mailroom. I had my own office with a window and all the other little advantages that came with working for a big boss. I even had a free gym membership. I may use that membership but not right now. I loved ice cream too much for the gym at this particular time in my life.

Mr. Trubeau let me go home at five. I was feeling okay about day two with the boss until I stepped into the elevator. My old boss Martin Turner was standing there. I had never had any real problems with him but he wasn't exactly the person I wanted to see. He was a little too familiar and too touchy-feely. In the past, I just ignored him.

"So, you got a promotion I hear?" Martin asked although I knew he had the answer.

"It's not really a promotion. I work in another department." I tried to smooth it out when I shouldn't have to explain myself at all.

"I have to do your job and mine until they send me a replacement."

"I'm sorry Martin. I had to start this new job right away."

"So you're working for the big boss."

_It's his company. Technically, we all are working for him._ "Yeah."

"How is he?"

"I don't know. I just started yesterday."

"I heard he was bad news."

Bad news? I didn't understand what he was getting at and I wasn't interested. I couldn't wait for the elevator doors to open.

"I signed papers. I can't talk about him to anyone."

"Not even your old pal." We were far from pals.

"No, not even you." Martin was only about ten years older than me. He was all right looking but he wasn't my type. He was a light-skin Black man with freckles and curly hair. He might even be bi-racial. I never asked because I didn't care. First, he wasn't my type in the looks department. Second, he was very married.

Ding! The elevator doors parted, and I darted out of the steel box. We were both in the same underground garage so Martin followed me out. I had my own parking spot close to the elevator door. I would escape this uncomfortable small talk soon enough.

This would be an awkward parting, and I knew it. I had to pop the locks on a brand new Audi while Martin's jealous ass was near.

I didn't have a choice, so I did it. The lights flashed, and the cat was out of the bag.

"So this is your car?"

If ever there was a good time to use the N-word, it was now. "No, this is a company car. I have an old Toyota Corolla." I got so tired of shrinking myself so others could feel bigger.

"Damn girl you are really moving on up. I believe I deserved that job."

First off, most men can't deal with being bossed around by another man in the way that a personal assistant is bossed around. If Trubeau had a dog, I would probably have to walk it and pick up dog shit.

Martin was the supervisor of the mailroom because he enjoyed telling people what to do. I don't want to be in charge. It's nerve-racking. I was the assistant manager at a clothing store when I was younger. I wanted to punch every employee that couldn't follow the simple rules. Being the boss was super damn stressful. Who knows why Trubeau acts the way he does.

"Martin, I don't know why you feel that way. I have to go."

Martin purposely walked too close to me. He made me bump into the Audi to get away from him. I almost dropped my laptop bag.

"Jerry Fletcher got you that job. Are you fucking him?"

"Martin, what is wrong with you?"

"I'm pissed that you got a better job than me."

"Running around getting coffee is a better job?" I was trying to be cool when I was just a heartbeat away from hitting him with this fucking laptop and cussing him and all his kinfolks out.

"I know someone in human resources. I know how much money you make. You make a lot more than me."

"Look, I don't know how much you make and I don't care. It's none of my business"

"I bet you sucked Jerry's dick."

"I bet that's also none of your fucking business."

"Bitch!" Must men always throw that word out like it's an insult? He shoved me hard up against the car. "Who the fuck do you think you are?"

I tried to swing my purse at him but he swatted it away. I twisted my ankle but managed to stay up on my feet.

"Martin, take your ass home!"

"So now you're giving me orders?"

"Get the fuck on or I'm screaming rape."

"Don't give me any ideas you backstabbing hoe."

_What? That doesn't even make sense._

"Leave me alone!" I raised my voice, and he got the message. He shoved me one more time, just so it was painfully clear he was a bitch-ass, bitch-made, trash bag, light bright, ninja fucking turtle.

He backed away and walked off like he didn't physically assault me. But that was exactly what happened.

If I become a card caring member of the #MeToo movement. I'm going to also become a member of the #CommitedAHomicide movement.

I tossed my purse and laptop in the passenger seat and jumped inside the guaranteed security of the car. I peeled out of the parking garage mad as hell. God was going to have to grant me serenity or forgive a murder. I wanted to kill that punk.

# Chapter 4

"You're wet."

It was the first thing that came to mind when I walked into Trubeau's office with his vanilla bean latte. He was standing in his office wearing pants. His hair was wet, and he was drying his shirtless torso with a bath towel.

I tried to look away but I couldn't. He had abs forever. Eight abs exactly, I counted them as fast as I could. They seemed to appear in high definition 4D.

"I took a shower."

"You have a shower in your bathroom?"

"Yes."

"Why were you dirty?"

I knew I had stepped over the line. It was too late to take the question back. _Sex— it had to be sex._ Why else would he be showering at work this early in the morning?

Trubeau glared at me. I watched him towel off his damp hair before tossing the towel in the wastebasket. His gray shirt was carefully laid over the back of his chair. He picked it up and started putting it on his model-like body.

"Do you really want to know?" He walked over to me with his shirt on his body but open in the front. I could see a little trail of hair marching from the front of his pants and up his abs.

"Instead of working out at home I came in early for a meeting with Jerry Fletcher. The meeting ended early, and I was able to get a workout in at the gym down the block. Do I need your permission to shower in my own office?"

_So this was the sarcastic version of Mr. Trubeau._

"No, of course not. That's silly." I was too flustered. My mind was turning into a vodka-filled Jell-O shot. "I just was shocked or startled."

"Clearly, you've been ogling me the entire time you've been in here. I assume you're here to give me my coffee."

Shit! I looked down at the designer paper coffee cup in my hand. "Right, here." I shoved the cup into his bare chest.

Trubeau took the coffee. "Is it hot?"

"Not too hot. Not too cold." I sort of giggled. _Why was I acting weird?_

He took a sip of his coffee and licked the access off his lip with his tongue. This man was sexy. Now I was curious. I wanted answers. My big mouth was going to get me fired, but he was so close to me and the workout seemed to put him in a different mood. I would label it as a semi-good mood.

"Mr. Trubeau, what happened to your previous assistant?"

"Do you really want to know?" _Huh, was that his catchphrase? I'd never ask a question I don't want to know the answer to. Who has time for shit like that?_

"Yes."

"I don't think she could handle the fast pace. Her work ethic was terrible. Apparently, she had other things going on. She quit on a Friday and flew to Vegas and married a man twice her age on Saturday. I believe she didn't want a career. I think she was one of those young women that wanted to be taken care of."

"Oh." I didn't expect to hear all that.

"Do you want a career?"

"Yes."

"Do you want a man to take care of you?"

"I don't know. I want to have my own money. Every woman wants a man to support her. It's not always financial. There are many ways to take care of someone."

"I have to keep you here late tonight. I'm having a dinner meeting in the conference room. Is there a boyfriend that's going to be pissed at me for making you work late?"

"No."

"Really, you have no one waiting for you?"

"No, I don't." _Nosey much?_

"Well, that's good for me. I get to have you all to myself."

"Yes, it's good for you. Can I leave now?" I needed to catch my breath and break out of his charming little web.

"I never called you into my office in the first place. Leave." He turned his back on me and just like that he was back to being his asshole self.

I left his office and went right back to mine. I loved having an office.

The day was long. I was able to go out to lunch with my former co-worker Marcella. She worked in the mailroom and I had to tell somebody how my ex-supervisor Martin clowned me in the parking garage. Marcella hated Martin. She thought he was a piece of shit and she was a gossip so she had all the dirt on people. She was seeing Hector, a guy that worked in human resources so Martin knew better than to mess with her.

She told me Martin had a baby with a teenager that his wife didn't know anything about. Her receipts were the child support payments that were being taken out of his payroll check. I didn't know if it was true but it felt good to sit down and talk shit with her. She was Mexican and Dominican and the only friend I had at this job. Marcella told me I should file a sexual harassment case against Martin. But honestly, it would just end up being a case against Trubeau Technologies and I wanted to keep my job.

Lunch with Marcella made me feel better. I just wanted to make a good impression with my boss. Trubeau was entertaining tonight, and I didn't want to mess it up. Trubeau was having an evening meeting in the conference room with some of his colleagues. I had to order dinner and make sure the room was tidy. I had to set out the food and drinks. I had to basically host a casual dinner party for four. I knew I could handle it.

Three stuffy White men showed up around seven. They were all dressed business casual. One man even had on jeans. I escorted them to the conference room. I could feel they were checking me out. It didn't bother me. I was used to men looking at me. I made sure I was well put together. I was curvy. They definitely had something to ogle.

My ass was hard to hide and my breasts were a little more than average. If a man was into fat asses I had the deep brown version of J.Lo's ass with thick thighs to match. If they were into big boobs, I had that too.

Usually, White men tactfully took quick glances at me. It was barely noticeable, so I'd just ignore them and go on with whatever I was doing. Even though Trubeau told me his visitor's names, there was no way I would remember them. I thought of them as the short man, the pale man, and the tall man.

One was the pale man because he didn't have any tan although we were in the middle of summer. The pale man's eyes followed me the entire time I was in the room. He probably has a thing for milk chocolate women. I didn't have to serve them but I was advised to stay close by if I was needed. Close by meant in the adjoining room. I set the food and drinks up buffet style so I was sure they could handle everything on their own.

All the talk was about the business of Trubeau Technologies. I heard them talk about expansion, outdated products, manufacturing in China, and a laundry list of things that made me sort of proud of this self-made millionaire. Trubeau was only thirty-two, and he had built an impressive empire all on his own.

When they all left the building Trubeau went back into his office. I cleaned up all the food and trash. I knew we had a cleaning person for that but I took it upon myself not to leave a mess for the next woman. When she arrived in the early morning, she would only have to grab the garbage bags I left in the hall by the door.

It was almost eleven. I wanted to be in bed by midnight. I had to make one stop into Trubeau's office so I could be dismissed. He was sitting in his chair with his eyes closed.

"Excuse me, Mr. Trubeau."

He opened his eyes. "Yes."

"Did you need anything else?"

"Yes, a ride home. I've been drinking and you have not."

"Okay. You want me to drive you home?" I was just making sure I heard him correctly.

"Yes, is that a problem?"

"No, of course not. Do you want me to pull the car up to the front entrance?"

He smirked. "No, I think I'm capable of walking to the parking garage."

"Right."

"Let's go." He stood and followed me out of his office. He waited outside my office door while I shut down my computer and grabbed my things. I followed him out to the elevator. He stood close enough to me that I got a whiff of his cologne. It smelled rather expensive. It smelled like he had bathed in a golden tub of sex, red roses, chardonnay with strawberries and pinecones. I wondered if his cologne lasted the entire day or did he re-spray it?

_Fuck me, my panties were getting misty._ _Nooooo!_

When the elevator doors opened, I could think straight. He followed me to my Audi— his Audi. He got in the passenger seat and secured his seat belt.

I was nervous about driving such a rich man around. Like if something happens to him it would actually be on the news. If I crashed with only me in the car, it was cool. I was nobody. I was carrying precious cargo tonight.

He didn't seem intoxicated at first. He put the GPS on his phone for me. He walked to the car like he was on a runway in Milan.

"Homer was really impressed with you."

_Who_? "Homer?" That must be the pale one. It didn't matter. "So he enjoyed my food choices?"

"I would say he enjoyed you. I told him you had a boyfriend."

"Why?"

"He has a lot of money and a boat. I didn't want him to whisk you away. Remember what happened with my last assistant."

"He also has a wedding ring." They all had on wedding rings.

"You noticed that."

"He doesn't care. He cheats all the time."

"I care."

"You do?"

"First place will always be better than second. You should know. You're successful."

"You're right. Being number one has a certain appeal that being number two can never live up to. What if Homer were single? Is he your type?"

"No."

"And why is that?"

_Because he isn't you._ "I don't know."

_I don't think I'm going to be able to keep this job._

He chuckled and a very sexy cheek dimple made a rare appearance. "I think you know." He closed his eyes.

_What did he mean by that_?

"Turn left at six hundred feet." The lady cell navigation voice said.

I had to listen to Navi for the rest of the way. Bossman fell asleep within the twenty-two minutes it took to get to his house. I didn't have any problems getting through the security booth. The guard saw the car or my sleeping boss. He let me in like I belonged. I dropped him off at his mansion and drove off more confused than I had been in a long time.

My apartment was twenty minutes from his house. When I got home, I stripped off all my clothes and curled up under the covers.

Please don't dream about Trubeau's abs.

Please don't dream about Trubeau's lips.

Please don't dream about Trubeau's butt.

Please don't dream about Trubeau's cheek dimple.

Please don't dream about Trubeau's dreamy blue eyes.

Please don't dream about Trubeau at fucking all.

# Chapter 5

I knew I did a good job yesterday with the conference dinner. Trubeau didn't have to tell me. It was the first time I had ever seen him appear happy. He was smiling with his colleagues. I supplied good food, wine, and imported beer. I was surprised I had to drive him home last night. I was more surprised I was summoned to his house the next day at seven in the morning.

I felt rested even though I didn't get much sleep. I made it on time to Bossman's house. I had never been in this neighborhood until last night. It looked really beautiful in the morning. I couldn't see much in the darkness of last night.

Trubeau lived in a posh gated community not too far from his headquarters. He had a few offices across the country. He really had loads of money. It didn't seem like he cared much about it though. He never questioned one charge on his company credit card. I only used it for work-related charges but he never said a word about the cost of anything.

An older White lady housekeeper let me in. _Huh, that's a rare thing to see._ She walked me to his in-house gym. Great, he was shirtless and sweaty as he cycled on a stationary bike. I slowly walked up to him as the housekeeper left us alone.

His body was so nice.

Trubeau looked over at me. "You're on time."

"Yes, I am." _Put a shirt on!_ _I haven't had sex in eight months. Geez, give me a break._

"Good." He was breathing heavily.

"That's what you're wearing to the office?"

_What now?_ "Yes, I can go home and change if you like."

"No, it looks nice."

"Ah, thank you." The compliment threw me off.

"It's been four days. This job is very demanding. I'm just getting warmed up. If I need you to drop everything and fly out of the country can you do that at a moments notice."

"Yes."

"Do you have a valid passport?"

"Yes."

"Good. Don't worry I have no trips planned in my immediate future. There is a charity event coming up this Saturday. Are you free to work on a Saturday night?"

"Yes."

"Okay good, then you will need a formal evening gown. Do you need your hair styled?"

"Do you think I need my hair styled?"

He shrugged. "It looks fine every day I've seen you. It's entirely up to you."

"I can do it myself."

"Where's my coffee?"

"Oh. I didn't bring it. I was going to get it on the way to work like I always do. I'm sorry."

"You're taking me to work. I left my car at the office."

"Yes, you did."

"I could've called a car service or I could've driven one of my other cars but I thought I should wake you up early and have you drive out of your way." He was staring me down and waiting for my response.

"That was very kind of you." I joked.

"Yes, it was. I got ten minutes left then I'm going to shower and get changed. You can watch me sweat or you can explore the house."

"Do you have a sex dungeon?" That just jumped out my mouth.

"No." He didn't look at me. "Should I add one?"

"No, you shouldn't."

"Will I run into any naked women?"

"No." He turned to look at me with his devilish eyes. "I don't do sleepovers."

"I'll explore your house."

I left him alone in his gym before I had a full-blown orgasm. _Is he taunting me? Is he trying to seduce me?_ No, that's stupid. Rich people are just weird.

I did explore his amazing house, as much as I could explore before Trubeau texted me to meet him at the front door.

He was in a dark blue suit. He really knew how to dress and his clothes looked like they were tailor-made for him. Everything just lay so perfectly on his chiseled body. I followed him out the front door.

"I'm driving." He took the car keys out of my hand.

_Oh my, he touched me_.

I got in the passenger seat and hoped he wasn't a reckless driver. I didn't want to start the day with an upset stomach.

He pulled out his circular driveway like a normal driver and I was able to relax.

"I picked a suit that matches your dress."

I hadn't noticed until he mentioned it but we were matching. "What will people think?"

"Does it matter?" He smirked in my direction.

"No, it doesn't. You're the boss."

"You're the first person that has worked with me that I didn't hire."

"You hired Sharon?"

"Yes, Sharon was my sixth-grade teacher."

"I didn't know that."

"She saved my life. That was the year my father died. I had a few months of hardcore juvenile delinquency. She really helped me get back on track. My mother was grief-stricken and at her wits in. Mrs. Rudd got me interested in martial arts. It changed my life."

"I can definitely see Sharon as a teacher."

"The best one I've ever had. She cared about her students. She cared about me."

"How did she end up working here?"

"When I became Trubeau Tech, I went back to her school and offered her a job. I needed to have an administrative assistant I could trust. She didn't want to leave teaching but I offered her more money. She tutors kids after work and on the weekends."

"You couldn't trust any of your previous assistants?"

"I didn't trust anyone back then. I was newly rich, and I thought everybody wanted something from me. I'm older now. I can read people much better now. I needed an older woman I could trust. I was tired of my female employees parading around in short skirts and provocative attire trying to entice me. I was young, but I wasn't an idiot."

"I don't think anyone thinks you're an idiot."

He smiled as he looked out the front windshield. "The clothes are a test. If I give you my credit card and you go out and buy appropriate garments, I know where your head is. I have to play these games to see who people really are."

"I don't. I don't." I was stuttering. "You were testing me?"

"Yes." He raised an eyebrow and looked over at me. I quickly closed my mouth. I was in shock.

"Okay." Now I had to sit in the passenger seat and question every single item I bought with his credit card.

"The assistant before you bought all the wrong clothes but she was very young and definitely not my type. So I kept her on, only to have her quit. That was a big mistake."

"I don't know what to say. To base anything on someone's outer appearance is discriminative. Men shouldn't dictate what women can or cannot wear in the workplace."

"You may be right in theory but we are both living in the real world. Why did you pick conservative attire when I gave you the option of buying whatever you wanted?"

"I dress conservatively in the workplace because I don't want any unwarranted attention. I just want to do my job. Women are constantly harassed in the workplace."

"Have you been sexually harassed?"

"No." I spit that out quick. There was no way I was going to pour my heart out to Trubeau. I wasn't going to tell him about Martin Turner or the guy from the fourth floor that rubbed his hard penis against my ass in a crowded elevator. I was never going to mention the lesbian that touched my left breast and acted like she was brushing lint off my sweater.

The rest of the ride into work was silent. Sexual harassment was a heavy topic. I was just happy that the conversation was over.

My day was filled with paperwork and calls. All the calls had been directed to me since Sharon left early for a doctor's appointment. Today I really earned my paycheck. Trubeau was expecting some important documents from someone overseas. I was checking online to see when they arrived. All packages come to the mailroom first. For obvious reasons Trubeau never got his packages directly. There was always the possibility that someone was trying to bomb or poison him because he was wealthy and had many competitors. He was on that Forbes list so that made him something special. He had security, and he told me he always changed his daily routine. He was so low-key. I didn't think he had much to worry about.

I had to stop in the ladies' room before I made my way to the mailroom. I was drying my hands off when my job cell phone rang. It could only be Sharon or Trubeau. It was Trubeau. He had been on my ass all day. I answered the call and shoved the cell phone back in my pocket. Thank God for wireless Bluetooth earbuds.

"Hello." I exited the ladies' room and rounded a corner.

"Has my package arrived?"

"Yes sir, tracking says it's in the mailroom. I'm on my way to get it right now."

"Hurry. I needed that package hours ago."

"Okay, I will be right there. Bye." I stuck my hand in my pocket and ended the call.

I walked into the mailroom and didn't see anybody. I started looking for anything on the ledge that hadn't been sorted but had Sharon's name on it.

"Boo!"

If I hadn't just used the bathroom, he would've literally scared the shit out of me— well the pee out of me. My heart was beating fast. Why was Martin such a bastard?

"Hi, Martin. I'm just looking for a package."

"So your slave master sent you down to the fields." I could feel his hot dragon breath on me.

"What are you talking about?"

"You're not smart enough to have that job on the tenth floor. You must be sucking that White man's dick."

"Martin, I'm here to pick up a package for my boss. He's your boss too."

"I work for my check. You suck the White man's dick for yours."

I couldn't believe this bright skin bastard was talking to me like he was plucked straight out of Botswana. He had a lot of nerve. I was brown he was almost translucent.

"You really need to stop. I know your mother is White. You're not just light skin. You're half White. You sound like a damn dummy."

Martin grabbed a thin box off the ledge. "Is this what you're looking for?"

"Give me Mr. Trubeau's package."

"Let me suck one of those big ass titties."

"You are being really unprofessional. You already attacked me in the parking lot and I didn't go to HR."

"And you better not."

"Please give me the box."

"Let me see your nipple."

"No, you are the mailroom supervisor and a grown ass man. I said no and meant it."

This muthafucka grabbed at my chest and I stumbled backward trying to get away from him.

"Stop! Don't touch me! Stop!"

Martin reached around and grabbed my ass. "Get your hands off me!"

I managed to grab his cheek and scratch the shit out of him. I dug my fingernails in deep. I was trying to draw blood. He had to let me go. I grabbed the box out of his hand and ran out of the mailroom. As soon as I entered the back elevator, it hit me— tears.

I wiped my face and when I got to the tenth floor. I went right into Trubeau's office and dropped the package on his desk.

I tried to rush out of the room.

"Hey! Wait."

I turned back to him with what I believed was a resting regular face. "Yes."

"You okay? Your eyes are red."

"Yes, I'm fine. I just have something in my eye. I have to use the ladies' room."

I didn't wait for him to dismiss me. I left the room only to go into my office and be mad as hell. This day is over. Tomorrow is another day.

# Chapter 6

My day was going well and it was almost over. I walked into Trubeau's office Friday evening with the documents he requested. I walked around his desk. He looked up at me and sometimes his eyes did weird things to me. This was one of those times.

It was almost time for me to go home. He told me he wasn't going to keep me late.

"Did you hear the news?"

"About David Patterson?"

"Yes, it's all over the news."

"I cannot believe he killed himself. Suicide at his age."

"Did you know him well?"

"We were only business acquaintances. We golfed together a few times. I don't understand it. He had everything. He had everything I ever wanted. He had a booming business, a beautiful wife, and two smart kids. Why would he hang himself?"

Did Andrew want to be married with kids? He already had a successful business. I don't know why I pictured him as the kind of man that would never marry. He seemed to be above convention. I had no idea who David Patterson was until TMZ posted his suicide. It's still a very sad thing to hear. His wife and kids must be in so much pain.

"A lot of people secretly suffer from depression and mental illness."

"I said a lot of inappropriate things to you on Monday. I remember saying you were nothing special. I didn't mean it. It was rude."

"It was extremely rude but I have thick skin."

"It's really nice skin." His eyes were stalled on my cleavage. I put a little Fenty Beauty Fairy Bomb on my décolletage.

"Thank you."

He finally looked back into my eyes, which wasn't really that much better for me. His dreamy blue eyes were rather unnerving. I survived the week with dry panties by simply not looking at him for too long.

"It's Friday. Congratulations you made it a full week."

"Maybe you should celebrate by having a drink when you get back to your apartment."

"Maybe I will."

"Don't forget to pick up the ball gowns after work."

"I won't. As soon as I leave here I'm going right over to Sak's." My stomach was feeling tingly. I wanted to flee. I had a night of Cupcake Moscato and masturbation waiting for me at home. "Is there anything else for today?"

"Yes, one more thing."

I stood there waiting but he didn't say anything else. "Should I take notes?"

"No, that won't be necessary. Oh look he's here."

I turned from Trubeau to see Martin Turner standing behind me.

"Robin, you remember Martin your former boss from the mailroom?"

"Yes." My heart started beating fast.

"Come in. Please, Martin, have a seat— you too Robin."

"It's nice to meet you Mr. Trubeau." Martin commenced to sucking up.

"Yes, it is," Trubeau said.

I faked a smile. I sat in one of the two chairs in front of Trubeau's desk. I took the seat that was closest to me. Martin had to take the other. Andrew didn't bother to take his seat.

"Seems like you two would be happier to see each other."

I cut my eyes at Andrew. What was he doing?

"Martin, I called you up here to discuss an issue that can't be overlooked at this company. I'm not going to lie. I have never heard of you until yesterday. Robin never mentioned you. Martin, you are one of the many employees that work for me that I have zero interaction with."

"This is a large company and you're a very busy man." Martin was making excuses for being a regular Joe.

"Yes, I am busy, much too busy for pity issues concerning my employees. I remember sending Robin to the mailroom yesterday to retrieve a package that had arrived."

"Oh yes, I gave it to her personally. Was it damaged in some way?"

"No, the package and its contents were in pristine condition but my assistant didn't return in the condition that I sent her."

I knew I'd better be quiet but Martin wasn't me.

"I'm sorry. I don't follow." Martin was slow.

"No, it seems you do follow. The surveillance footage from the cameras in the underground parking garage proved that you follow, you stalk, you threaten and you harass."

"I, I, I was—" Martin stuttered.

"No, shut the fuck up! I guess the sexual harassment policy I put in place means nothing to you."

"Sir, I can explain."

"You can explain away security footage?"

"Robin and I just had a little disagreement. Whatever she told you about me are lies. We used to date and we were talking about our past relationship."

_This lying ass ninja!_

"Robin would never date you."

That was the God's honest truth. How did Andrew know? Martin didn't look like a toad but he was just as slimey.

"She's dated a lot of guys that work here."

"You're a terrible liar."

"No, Mr. Trubeau. Robin is the liar."

"Here's the issue. Robin has never mentioned you. Nowadays people wear these nifty earbuds that sit inside your ear. Women with long hair have the little device in their ear and men like you are none the wiser. I was on a call with Robin when she entered the mailroom yesterday. She tried to end the call but hit the wrong button and I heard your entire conversation. There was no relationship. You're just a predator. I thought I would just suspend you but you didn't come clean. You blamed the victim like the low-life piece of shit that you are. You owe Ms. MacDowell an apology."

"I do. I was out of line." Martin turned his attention from Andrew to me. "Robin I'm sorry for any pain or suffering I caused you. Truly sorry."

_Was his dumb ass sorry about lying on me just a minute ago? I mean damn, this so-called brother basically called me a thot for no reason at all._

Martin's mouth was wide open. He couldn't believe what Andrew was saying and I could barely believe him myself. He never let on that he was on the other line. I knew the line wasn't clear but I assumed he hung up but hadn't cleared the line. Cell phones were tricky that way.

"I hate to do this to your wife and two kids but I'm firing you."

"Mr. Trubeau, I need this job."

"I know you pay child support to your third child. If you really needed this job why would you behave in such a reprehensible way? You don't have to answer."

"What happened was completely out of my character."

"All that White slave master crap was just low. When a woman says no she means it. You're fired. Leave the building. If you're thinking about causing a scene, you shouldn't. You don't see security guards because I don't need them. I have a black belt in karate. I also have this." Andrew reached into his desk drawer and placed a shiny black handgun on top of his desk. "I don't need a gun. I just think it's a beautiful piece of hardware."

Martin slowly got up on his feet. I didn't watch him skedaddle his clear ass out the door. But I was sure he hightailed it out of that office.

"Are you okay?"

"What?" I was sitting outside my body.

"You're just sitting there like a statue."

"You fired him."

"I had to terminate him. How do I know he's not doing this to some other woman? Martin Turner is a liability."

"He's a pig."

"That too."

Trubeau walked around his desk and knelt down in front of me. "Why didn't you say anything to me?"

"I can handle my own problems."

"I never said you couldn't but everyone isn't as strong as you are. There's nothing wrong with asking for help. Remember, Sharon, helped me."

His eyes were penetrating my force field. "Now that you're looking at me like that I probably should've said something."

"I'm not a monster Robin."

"You're not?"

He flashed a crooked smile and I almost fainted. "I'm not a monster today. Come Monday morning I'm a beast." He stood and looked down on me. "Take my hand." He held it out and I took it. He pulled me to standing. "Go to Sak's. Go home and relax."

"Okay." I felt like some programmed robot that did everything he told me. I was being paid to do what he said. I was afraid if he told me to open my legs I would do that too. I couldn't tell if he was flirting or just being his normal hot and cold self. I really needed to know his zodiac sign. I didn't believe in all that stuff but I just couldn't figure this man out.

He let my hand go. "Oh thank you— the Martin thing. I know he was a liability to your company but thank you."

"Yes, he was a liability to my company but I fired him for you. In a weeks time, you have become a very valuable asset to me."

I wanted to believe Trubeau. But this guy was so fucking smooth. Was he really being honest? I didn't have a clue how he really felt or if he felt anything at all.

"Thank you." I gulped up some air and I left Trubeau's office.

That was a day.

# Chapter 7

I thought about Trubeau all Friday night and I had the nerve to be happy that I was going to see him at this charity event that was being held downtown. I picked up four dresses from Sak's Fifth Avenue after work on Friday. The most expensive dress of the four was over nine thousand dollars. I picked the candy apple red Versace dress instead. It was half the price of the other dress but I loved the color and the webbed design on the back of the dress.

I wore my hair down with a part down the middle. My makeup was a bit more dramatic and red matte lipstick was the highlight. I looked like a million bucks or at least 5K. Trubeau had handpicked each dress so I knew he approved of all of them.

I drove to Trubeau's house. It made sense. This was work-related, not a date. There wasn't any reason for him to pick me up. I arrived at his place at seven and was let in by his housekeeper. I waited in the foyer for an entire minute before Trubeau came down the stairs in his black tuxedo. This man looked good enough to eat but I was sure he knew it. I wondered why he was single. He was a sight to behold.

"I'm glad you chose the red dress. It was my favorite. You look beautiful."

"So do you."

"Don't we make a pretty pair?" I'm not sure why those words caused butterflies in my stomach but they did.

I didn't respond for fear it was some kind of trap or test. But we looked so good together.

"Are you ready to rub elbows with the upper crust?"

"Yes, I will follow your lead." He smiled with all his teeth. _Damn, they were really white._ I had to smile back.

"We're going this way."

I followed Trubeau through a room and into a garage. When the lights came on I saw cars, a black Land Rover, a Purple Tesla, a red Porsche, and a blue sports car. I didn't know what it was. He opened the passenger door to the unknown blue car and I got in. He got in and I waited for us to leave the garage.

"This car is nice. What kind of car is this?"

"A Bugatti Chiron."

Someone other than rappers bought Bugatti's. You learn something new every day.

"I've never been in one before. Is it rude to ask how much it costs?"

"It depends on who's asking. This car cost two point nine million."

"Okay so let's make sure you don't drive down the street on the wrong side of town."

"Are you afraid we'll get carjacked?"

"Well, it happens."

"It does. But I don't live my life in fear. You don't have to worry. I will protect you."

_With that gun? I ain't forgot about the gun_. "Right, if it comes down to me and the car, you're going to pick the car. Men love their cars."

"Love is a strange word. I enjoy and like certain cars but it's an object that can be replaced. So if I had to pick between you and the car I will always pick human life."

"Good thing I'm a human and not an alien from another planet."

"Good thing for me." He half-smiled. "I don't think an alien can get my coffee order just right. Just a heads up, my mother will be at this event."

"Your real mother?"

He took his eyes off the road to roll them at me. "Yes, the one that carried me in her belly for nine months. She is big into this charity work. She points me in the right direction and I show up and give away money."

"Are you really going to give this expensive car to a valet?"

"It's insured."

We entered the festivities and we weren't at the event for fifteen minutes when his mother appeared from the crowd. She looked good for her age although I didn't know her age. She was fit and well dressed. She had chestnut brown eyes. Her hair was blonde and in a flawless French roll. Her jewelry looked classy and expensive. Her evening gown was long and black. I was so happy I didn't wear the black Elie Saab gown.

She approached her son with arms spread and kissed his cheek as they embraced. I was nervous. I wasn't sure why. I didn't have anything illicit going on with Trubeau.

"Mother, this is my personal assistant Robin MacDowell. Robin this is my mother, Gloria Trubeau."

We both extended our hands at the same time and shook.

"It's very nice to meet you Mrs. Trubeau."

"You as well Robin. You look very nice tonight."

"Thank you."

"So Andrew, why would you hire someone so pretty?" Mrs. Trubeau smiled as she checked me out.

"Mother, I didn't hire her. She was hired by another employee at Trubeau Tech."

"Oh well, that makes sense."

I stood quietly and wondered what she meant by that.

"Mother, I can see Laura Monroe eyeing you from across the room."

Mrs. Trubeau looked for the woman in question. "Gosh, she's waving at me. I must go to her. Please don't leave without a proper goodbye."

"I will find you like I always do." Trubeau gave his mother a kiss on her cheek.

"Robin, hope to see you later dear." She grabbed my shoulders and gave me two air kisses on both sides of my face.

Mrs. Trubeau dashed off leaving me with a sense that she was royalty. Her son grabbed two champagne flutes of a tray as a server walked up to us. He handed one glass over to me. I took it.

"My mother is a gem. She loves this lifestyle. She was poor most of her life. My success has literally put her in a world she only dreamed about. She flourishes in this environment. I can't believe she gave you air kisses."

"She looks like she belongs in this world and that's what matters." I came up with that off the top of my head.

"Why aren't you drinking?"

"I didn't know if I could."

"Yes, as much money as I'm going to spend at this gala we can at the very least indulge in the free champagne."

I took a sip from my glass and swallowed the best champagne I had ever tasted in my life. I needed more.

I wrote the checks for various charities and Trubeau signed his name on them. After all was said and done, he had given away a total of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

As the night progressed I had three glasses of bubbly and I was feeling tipsy. I was trying to act sober but the alcohol was stronger than any I ever had. Maybe I consumed too much too fast. I blame my boss. He should have cut me off.

My thoughts were getting fuzzy. I remember the valet pulling up in Trubeau's Bugatti. I remember getting in. I must've fallen asleep in the car. I woke up to my boss holding the passenger door open and the words—

"Can you walk?"

"Yes." I stepped out and almost hit the concrete but Trubeau lifted me over his shoulder. That was all I remembered of that Saturday night.

My eyes opened on Sunday and I was in an unfamiliar bed. I lay very still and pieced together what happened and how I got in this position. Fancy car, charity event, champagne, sexy boss in a tux— now I get it.

I had a mild hangover. I was so embarrassed. I drank too much in front of my boss. I sat up in bed and looked down at myself. I was wearing a gray sleeveless t-shirt and panties. I was alone feeling like crap until he walked in.

"You're up."

"Yes. What did I do?"

"Nothing really. The champagne didn't hit you hard until you were in the car. I couldn't let you drive yourself home. I put you to bed."

"And you removed my dress."

"Yes, I did. The dress was really tight. I had to remove it so you could move your limbs."

"I wasn't wearing a bra."

"I know. Do you think I saw you topless?"

"Did you?"

"Yes, I saw them, both of them. They are really— lovely. I put the t-shirt on you and tucked you in. Your virtue is intact."

I was too shocked to revisit the topless part. "What time is it?"

"A little after twelve."

"You let me sleep that long?"

"I didn't let you. You kind of did it all on your own."

"I have to go home."

"I'm not stopping you."

"I don't have pants. I don't have shoes. I can't put the dress back on. Do you have something I can wear?"

"Something like what exactly?" His perfect eyebrow rose.

"I don't know. Women leave things at men's houses all the time."

"Huh," He placed his hands at his waist. "I don't have any women's clothing. I can give you a tee-shirt and sweat pants."

"I would like that. I also want to apologize for drinking too much."

"It happens. Stay put. I'm going to get you something more suitable."

Trubeau left me alone in the bedroom only to return with a few items that were oversized but wearable for my drive home.

My boss had seen me naked all because I drank too much. He didn't fire me on Sunday. So hopefully, he won't fire me officially at the office on Monday.

# Chapter 8

Things were strange on Monday morning. I gave Trubeau his coffee and he didn't really have any other tasks for me the entire morning. He didn't call on me. He wasn't demanding or overbearing. He didn't have any rude, clever or sarcastic remarks.

When I left to get his lunch I stopped at Sharon's desk to see if she wanted me to pick her up something.

"No thanks, I brought leftovers from home."

"Okay."

"How was the party, the charity gala?"

"Oh, it was really nice, very elegant. I think Mr. Trubeau is mad about my behavior at the party."

"I highly doubt that. He never said anything to me. He said the event went well."

"He didn't say I had too much to drink? It wasn't on purpose. I can usually drink champagne with no problem. This champagne was stronger or something. I don't know. I just didn't handle it well. I fell asleep."

"Andrew didn't mention anything like that to me. He said he had a good time."

"Really? He's acting kind of weird with me." He wouldn't even look at me this morning. "Would you tell me if he was going to fire me?"

"He's not going to fire you. I would never let him. You are fitting in really well as his assistant. You haven't made any mistakes."

"Okay, he just hasn't said two words to me all day."

"Robin, oh, that has nothing to do with you. He's going to stay in his office all day."

"Why?"

"Today is the anniversary of his father's death."

"I didn't know that."

"You wouldn't. Just act like this is a free day. He's probably going to be very quiet all day. His mother may even show up later."

"I met her at the charity event."

"Was she nice to you?"

"Yes, I thought so."

"She loves pretty people." _Did Sharon think I was pretty?_ "Did she try to set him up with any women at the party?"

"I don't think so."

"You would know. She's been trying to get him married off for a long time now."

"Really? It shouldn't be that hard."

"Andrew is very picky when it comes to women. He's not the kind of guy that could be set up. He has to make all the decisions himself."

"Oh well, that makes sense. It's getting late. I have to get his lunch to him on time. I don't want to be yelled at especially after I messed up at the event."

"Okay. Don't rush. He's probably not even paying attention to the time today."

I left Sharon's desk and took the elevator down to the parking garage. I didn't know how to handle all the things I learned about my boss. The new information didn't help me understand him better. It just left me with more questions.

**ANDREW**

* * *

I had a feeling my mother would show up at my office to make me feel better. When Sharon called me from her desk I knew it was the woman that gave me life and never let me forget it.

I waited for my mother to enter my office. I hoped she wasn't trying to take me anywhere. I was very comfortable in this chair behind this desk.

All the work I paid for took at least ten years off my mother's looks. She never let me forget how grateful she was. She also let me know she had more than a few gentleman callers. Seeing my mother in her new life was a thrill for me. She spent many years alone mourning my father.

As she entered I stood and walked toward her.

"Andrew, my baby."

"Mother, you look lovely." I gave her a kiss on the cheek and stood until she took her chair in front of my desk. I walked around the desk and sat.

"You look so handsome today. You look just like your father did when he was young."

"Thank you." She said that all the time.

"You seemed to be in good spirits at the gala."

"I had a good time."

"And you bought a woman with you."

"Robin, my new assistant?"

"Are you sleeping with Robin, your new assistant?"

"No, I'm not." _Please don't give me the third degre_ e.

"Well, that's a pity. I hope you aren't still hung up on that Valerie girl."

"No, I am not. That has been over for a long time."

"You need to sleep with Robin. I know she's Black but I wouldn't have a problem with it. I'm not a racist. I had sex with a Mexican before your father."

"Mother, I thought my father married a virgin." I joked.

"That's cute."

"Robin is my employee. So intercourse wouldn't be a good idea regardless of her race."

"Oh well, that's an odd answer. You must be attracted to her."

"What are you talking about?"

"You said it wouldn't be a good idea. You didn't say it was against company policy or a lawsuit waiting to happen."

Technicality. "I should've said those things."

"But you didn't. You said it wasn't a good idea and I'm sure you know some bad ideas turn into good ideas."

"I'm curious. Why do you care whom I'm sleeping with?"

"Because I know you and you are becoming more and more of a recluse. I don't want you to turn into one of those eccentric old rich guys that have to hire prostitutes to get a human connection."

"Mother." I walked behind my desk and planted myself in the chair. "I think that's not even remotely a possible future for me."

"Well, Andrew I would like to be a grandmother before I die."

"You are going to outlive me."

"I hope not. That would be tragic. You're rich and handsome. You can marry anyone you want. They will sign a prenup just to be with you and have nice things."

"Mother I did not hear you use the word love once."

"Andrew, dear, you're very lovable. Of course, they will love you."

"Did you love my father?"

"Of course, you know that he is the love of my life."

"I don't know. You talk like love isn't important."

"Yes, you know why?"

"No."

"Because I had it with him and I don't expect to ever find it again. Your father was my soul mate. He was so attractive and funny but he was penniless. It didn't matter to me because I loved him."

"Maybe I want that too."

"You deserve that, but with a prenup."

"Yes, of course."

My mother always seemed to make me feel better. I may be smart when it comes to business but she was good at reading people. She didn't have to play games or test them. She just had a sixth sense. She sensed my attraction to Robin. If Robin weren't my assistant I would ask her out. I'm not sure she would say yes. I probably shouldn't have removed her dress. I probably shouldn't have looked at her tits. I didn't remove her panties and I didn't look inside her panties. That should count for something.

Robin walked into my office without notice. Which was the way she always entered. She had my lunch. I wasn't hungry but I was going to let it sit on my desk and throw it out later.

"Mr. Trubeau I have—" she stopped talking when she saw my mother.

"Lunch." I finished her sentence.

"Hi, Robin. It's nice to see you again."

"Mrs. Trubeau, hello."

"Andrew, you make her call you Mr. Trubeau? Robin please, call my son Andrew. Mr. Trubeau was his father."

"Ah, he's my boss so."

"He may be your boss but he's not the King of England. He's a regular man that does regular things. He hasn't hit on you has he?"

"Mother, stop."

"No, Mr. Trubeau—"

"Andrew." My mother corrected Robin.

Robin looked at me. "Robin please call me Andrew so my mother can stop."

"Okay, Mr. ah I mean Andrew. There's enough for two. I'm going back to my desk now." Robin practically ran out of my office. I thought her exit was adorable.

"See mother you scared her off."

"That girl wants you."

"No, she doesn't."

"Of course she does. Does she know you have a big penis?"

"Oh my God, mother. She has never seen my penis and you haven't seen it for decades."

"Your father was huge and the last time I saw yours you were following his footsteps."

"A big penis footstep?"

"Well DNA or something. You're his clone. He would be so proud of you. She's really a looker. You have to admit that."

"Robin is not ugly on the eye."

"I didn't say marry. I just said have sex with her. Sometimes you're so grumpy. You could marry her. If Brad Pitt and that guy off Grey's Anatomy can raise Black kids then I'm sure you could. You can do anything. If I had Black grandchildren I would be this new age, cool, liberal grandmother. I could be like Kris Jenner, she has loads of Black grandchildren."

"Mother, I need to get back to work. I will take everything you said under advisement especially because I know just how much you love and admire Kris Jenner."

"Really?"

"Yes, I will even stare at Robin's boobs and ass the next time I see her." I already do that but now I have a permission slip from my mother.

"Great. And you should also eat something. Women love men with muscles, money and a little body fat."

"Good to know. Thanks for the motherly advice."

My mother stood. She walked over to my chair to grab my face and kiss me on the top of my head.

# Chapter 9

After a week, I was beginning to fall in love with the Audi. I needed to work toward buying one of my own. I stepped off the elevator in a nice sleeveless lavender blouse and a pale blue blazer with matching pale blue pencil skirt. I don't know why I wanted to look exceptionally good today. I told my beautician to change my hair and she made it wavy. I greeted Sharon at her desk. She told me Trubeau was in a much better frame of mind today.

I put my purse and bag in my office. I took my blazer off and I was on my way. I had to admit I missed being bossed around. I walked into Trubeau's office with coffee like I did every morning.

"Good morning Mr. Trubeau." I placed his coffee on his desk.

"I thought you were calling me Andrew."

"I don't know. Yesterday was confusing. What should I call you?"

"Come here." I walked around to his side of the desk but I didn't know where I was going to stop and stand. "Sit." He patted the top of his desk. I placed my ass on top but kept my feet on the floor.

Trubeau leaned back in his chair with his legs open. I looked down at his crotch and then back up at him. I hoped he didn't see it.

"My friends and family call me Andrew."

"So I can't call you Andrew?"

"Sure you can. Are you my friend or my family?"

"Which is better?"

"Do you show your tits to your family?"

"I didn't show you anything. You showed yourself." My tits.

"Are you mad about it. You shouldn't they are really nice."

"I know they're nice. I see them every day."

He chuckled. "I'm jealous. I bet they taste great."

I stopped breathing. I wasn't prepared for that and I didn't have any snappy comebacks.

"Robin, how do they taste?" He scooted his chair a bit closer to me.

I needed a comeback. "I'll put them in my mouth tonight and have the report on your desk by Wednesday morning."

I was moving into dangerous territory or I was being willingly dragged. I got off that desk with a quickness and strolled out of his office.

It was clear Andrew was flirting with me. I was flirting back. Flirting doesn't mean anything. Right?

I sat down at my desk and didn't know what to do with myself. I waited an hour and texted Andrew:

ROCKIN ROBIN: Can I leave to take the dresses back to Sak's?

BOSSMAN: What dresses?

ROCKIN ROBIN: The 3 extra gowns for the Charity Event.

BOSSMAN: Keep them. You'll probably wear them in the future.

ROCKIN ROBIN: Okay.

* * *

I wanted to scream. I smiled instead. It wasn't that the gowns were expensive. It was the possibility that I could wear them somewhere out on the town with Andrew. I think I can admit there was a mutual attraction between us.

I texted Marcella and told her to hold all the mail for Sharon Rudd and Mr. Trubeau. I really just wanted to take the elevator down and chitchat with her. I didn't have to act super professional with her. She was from the West Side. Her first kid's dad was in prison. She was a real regular person like me.

"You got Martin fired." Her first words to me.

"He actually got himself fired."

" _Chica_ , seriously? My _novio_ in HR told me Mr. Trubeau called HR and wanted Martin's file. They even pulled security tapes of Martin. That _cebra coño_ got what he deserved."

"What's _cebra coño_. I speak like three words of Spanish."

"He's a zebra pussy."

Couldn't help myself I laughed out loud. "Damn, you know everything. I didn't have to say anything. I came down to the mailroom last week and I had my earpiece in my ear." I flipped my hair back so she could see the earbud sitting in my ear. "I thought I hung up with Andrew."

"Andrew?"

"I mean Mr. Trubeau. He was still on the line listening and he heard Martin talking shit and attacking me."

"Martin needed to go. He was doing too much. His loss is my gain because now I've been promoted."

"Oh my God Marcella, congratulations."

"You mentioned my name to someone important. So thank you."

"Jerry Fletcher only asked me because I used to work in the mailroom. He asked me who knew the job. He needed someone to fill in for Martin. I didn't know it would be permanent. I didn't have anything to do with it really."

"You're so modest and so humble."

"I'm going to take you out to lunch tomorrow if you're free."

"You don't have to do that."

"I know but you didn't have to drop my name."

"Okay, I will let you know if I can get away."

"Is Mr. Trubeau keeping you busy?"

"Yes, he is." _He's keeping me flustered. He's keeping me daydreaming. He's keeping me wet too._

"If I was you, I would give him some pussy. He got rid of that asshole for you."

"He didn't do that for me."

"Yeah right." She rolled her eyes.

"Screwing your boss is very unprofessional and I don't think he wants my pussy."

"No, no I'm quite sure he does. He has a dick. He's straight. He had a fiancée a few years back."

"He did?" News to me.

"Yeah."

"What was her name?"

"I don't remember. It was something like Sally, Callie or Mallory. It doesn't matter. She's gone. You're here."

After a little more chitchat with Marcella, I went back to the tenth floor. I made sure I got Andrew's lunch order on time. He was on a business call. I slipped in and slipped out. He never even looked up at me.

A little after five, I was summoned. I walked into his office.

"Sit." He ordered and I took a seat. He stood and walked around his desk just to sit on top of the desk right in front of me. I had a direct view of his man parts.

"Are you coming in to work tomorrow?"

Odd question. "Yes, why wouldn't I?"

"You have a report you're bringing in tomorrow morning. I wanted to make sure you weren't going to give my report to the competition."

"I don't think you have any competition. Do I?"

He grinned and his dimple popped out his cheek. I wondered if he's just as sexy cleanly shaved.

Nosey me popped out.

"Was your mother trying to set you up with someone from the charity event?"

"My mother is a riot. She's always trying to set me up with someone."

"Do you think you should be dating right now?" Just because I couldn't have him didn't mean I wanted to see him with someone else.

"Is there a right time to date?"

"I don't know. You're busy with work."

"You don't even know whom she has in mind for me. You might really like her choice."

"I doubt it." I was pissed at him. I don't know if he was playing games with me. One minute he wants to know how my tits taste. Another minute he's telling me his mother is setting him up.

"What's wrong with your face." _What?_

"What are you talking about?"

"You look mad."

"I'm not mad." _Yes, I was mad and jealous too._

"You look mad. I can fix that."

He unexpectedly leaned down and kissed me. It only took me a second to join him in the kiss. He was a good kisser and I couldn't say I was surprised. He guided my tongue to do whatever he wanted.

"Robin."

"Yes." Lord!

"You're beautiful when you're mad."

"I wasn't mad." I was salty as fuck.

Andrew grabbed both my elbows and pulled me to standing. He wrapped one arm around my back and placed his other hand on my neck.

"I have to stop kissing you."

"Why?"

He kissed me again. "Because we have to work together."

"That's true."

My nipples tightened when he kissed my neck and trailed his tongue up to my mouth. "But you taste so good."

"Do I?"

"Hell fucking yes." Andrew rubbed his thumb on the delicate skin of my neck. "I have to stop this."

He looked me deep in my eyes and I was so glad he was holding me. I could've fainted right there in his arms. It felt like he was fucking me with his eyes.

"One last kiss." I couldn't believe I could boldly say that to him. I had become hungry for his mouth.

"One last kiss." He groaned in my ear.

"One last time and then I'm going home."

"Okay, one last time."

I closed my eyes and I waited for his lips to touch mine. His kiss finally came and so did I. My panties were warm and wet. I had never had an orgasm from a kiss before now. I got scared. I felt tears welling in my chest. As soon as he released me from his lips, I put my hands on his chest and pushed away from his heated embrace.

I had a lump in my throat and I couldn't speak a syllable and certainly not a complete word.

Run, I told myself but I just walked away instead.

# Chapter 10

The next day I said good morning to Sharon but I had a feeling my day was not going to go well. I hoped Sharon was in the dark about the attraction between the bossman and me. I didn't want anyone to think I was sleeping with the boss to get ahead or just to get anything. I said a silent prayer. I went into my office and there were a dozen white roses sitting in a vase on my desk. I walked deep into the room and Andrew was standing in a corner watching me.

"Robin, I'm sorry."

Sorry, for making me cum all in my little panties that didn't stop my orgasm from oozing down the inside of my thigh. Sorry for letting me know what I was missing and probably will never ever have. Is he sorry because he smells so fucking good? I don't know why he's apologizing to me with these gorgeous flowers that clearly didn't come from the local grocery store.

I placed my laptop bag, my purse, and his coffee on top of my desk. He took a step toward me and I really wanted him to stay on his side of the room.

"Robin, I'm sorry I kissed you. I have put us both in a precarious situation. I don't want there to be any issues. I am literally doing what I fired that other guy for. I'm not proud of myself." He waited. I waited. "Are you not talking to me?"

"I don't know what to say. It's early."

"Yes, it's early. I like having you as my assistant. You're smart. I don't have to say things to you multiple times. You know what I want without me saying it. I don't want to do anything to mess up our business relationship."

_You should've thought of that before you peeled me out of the Versace dress._

"I agree. I like this job. I want to keep this job."

"I stepped over the line. I was a bad boss. I want to draw a new line."

"Cool." _Did I just say cool?_ It's too early for this. "I will make a spreadsheet of what's not acceptable in the workplace."

"Huh?" _He never got any of my jokes._

"Andrew, I mean Mr. Trubeau, I'm joking. It's a joke. We are both adults. I think we can manage to act appropriately."

"You're right. Call me Andrew. I'm just going to bring my coffee to myself." Andrew grabbed his coffee as he walked by my desk to exit the room.

Why did that feel like someone cut a huge chunk of my hair out? I don't know. It just felt like someone took something away from me.

The day was going rather well for me although I felt like I just got dumped by the captain of the football team. I took Andrew lunch but the rest of our communication was professional and through text message. I had to stay late to help him prepare for the quarterly meeting he was going to have with the board members. The board was mostly made of his family members.

There was no tension between us that I felt. It was almost nine at night. We ate separately around six. I was putting together a few graphs for the PowerPoint when I looked across his desk and saw his eyes on me.

"I'm almost done."

My fingers tapped the MacBook keys. I picked the MacBook up and walked it around the desk to show it to him. I probably should've connected the Mac to the Whiteboard but I didn't think about it until now.

Andrew slid his chair over to make room for me behind his desk. I wish I had a chair. I should've thought to roll mine in here. I didn't think of that until now.

I started showing him all the slides and he didn't say a word.

"Are you okay with it?"

"It looks great. I think we've done enough for one day. It's pretty late. You can come to work at noon tomorrow."

"What time are you going to be here?"

"Seven or eight."

"If I go home and go straight to bed I'll be fine. I can come in at my regular time."

Andrew reached on top of the desk and closed my screen down. I thought he was going to hand over my MacBook and tell me to go home. He didn't do that. He took the laptop and placed it under his desk.

Cautiously, I looked down at him. He took his hand and rubbed my thigh.

_Okay, so what is happening_? "What are you doing?"

He didn't answer. He stood over me and even in four-inch heels I had to look up at him.

"I really wanted that report this morning." That report? "Now I want more than a report."

"Turn around."

"What?"

He started crowding my space. My butt was pushed against his desk. He was standing over me with his legs locking me into confinement.

"Turn around." I heard him but I didn't obey. I didn't have to. He spun me around. "Bend over, put your hands flat on the desk and I'll do the rest."

"We can't. I have to go." His hand rested in the middle of my back.

"No, is not an option. I'm going to fuck you. Bend your ass over my desk or I will push you over."

I was completely taken aback and secretly turned on by his rude behavior and brutish demands. I didn't bend and he pushed me. My hands flew out to stop my face from crashing into the desk. I was bent over his desk— my boss' desk. I tried to lift myself and he pushed forward. His hard dick was brushed against the fabric of my dress.

"Robin, stay down. I'm trying to control myself."

_This is control?_

A gush of air hit my ass cheeks because my dress had been pulled above my waist. His hand rubbed my ass cheeks.

"Don't move." His voice was like thunder. My panties were being cut away. I could hear sheers slicing through the fabric. My face was hot. I was sweating all over.

"Your ass is so sexy." He groaned from my backside.

My insides were already leaking from arousal. His perfect body was pure sex. Denying I wanted to feel him inside me was getting old. My feet were flat on the carpet and my hands flat on the desk. My pussy was wet and exposed. I couldn't see what he was doing behind me but I heard his belt buckle jiggle. I heard his zipper unzip. I heard his pants slide down his legs and land on the floor.

His hands stroked my ass in strong erotic circles. I fought the desire to press my ass back and search for his dick. I needed to feel him. I needed to merge with him. I needed to feel Andrew deep inside me. His strong hands gripped my thighs apart. He urgently spread my legs further open.

He grabbed me by the waist with one hand. With the other hand, he guided the head of his cock to the opening of my dampened pussy. He used his dick head to rub and play around with my lower lips. He let his dick glide around my drenched opening. He was teasing me and making me want him more.

I wanted him now.

"You are so wet. Do you want me to fuck you?"

"Yes, please. Andrew please." I wanted it and I was willing to beg for it. "Fuck me, pleaseeeee." I couldn't believe I was asking him to fuck me.

He slowly guided his rigid dick to my lubricated opening.

_It hurts!_ My head screamed as he filled me up. It was a tight fit. I hadn't had sex in forever and although I couldn't see his dick it had to be king-sized. No man had ever filled me up like him.

I held him snug inside my taut walls. I didn't have much choice. I made it a comfy place for him. He was pushing himself further down and deep inside me.

Andrew moved slowly as he held my waist. He pulled my ass back on his cock. Then he inched almost all the way out of me before leaning back into me. I felt my essence coat his cock with every powerful thrust. My ass rolled off his length and bounced back down again. My creamy sex milk coated his dick completely. I was so embarrassingly wet.

I tried to roll my hips in circles but his size was overpowering.

"I wanted you the first time I saw you!" He moaned as he controlled the rhythm and the tempo.

We fit tightly together.

I slightly bent my knees so I could get adjusted to his massive dick. I felt his balls smash against my ass. He hit my spot and my eyes rolled to the back of my head.

My legs were getting weak. He didn't notice or care. He started ramming me hard and fast over and over and over. I was screaming now and I tried to stop myself but my throat had other intentions.

"AHHHHHHH! OHHHHHHH!" over and over. I couldn't shut the fuck up. His member was a church sermon that made me shout.

"FUCKKKKKK!" He came inside me just as my orgasm shattered like glass. I collapsed onto the desk with Andrew on top of me. We were still attached. He released all his cum inside me.

_Oh, my! He probably should have pulled out._

His dick was throbbing inside me. I couldn't believe that it happened. Well, I could but I couldn't. It was just weird— good weird. _What do I do now?_

"Disregard everything I said this morning."

"Yeah." I could barely get a word out.

"Robin."

"Yeah."

"What do you want me to do?"

"Don't move. Just be very still."

"Okay, I'm cool with that."

"I'm going to go home now. But don't look at me when I leave."

"What?" He rose up a little but still had me in a tight embrace.

"No, no don't move."

"Okay sorry." He held me tighter against his bare chest. _Where did his shirt go?_

"Pull out. Slowly."

I could still feel him inside me. He was still hard. He slowly removed his dick and I was able to breathe again. I stood up straight but he still had one of his palms covering my breast. I was so focused on the bottom half of my body I never felt him remove my tittie out of my damn bra.

I wanted to run out of the room but I knew I would fall. My legs felt dead and my heels were too high.

He hands left my body. "I'm going to sit down."

"Okay."

"Let me pull your dress down."

"Okay."

I felt his hands on my hips and then I felt his mouth on my ass. He didn't pull my dress down. He started licking my ass instead. The tip of his tongue grazed my asshole and I bent forward a little.

"Andrew." I sighed but it was too late. He had spread my butt cheeks and he was tonguing my forbidden hole.

His mouth was working me over and then his finger was strumming my clit. He was trying to make me cum again. What he was doing was working. I was climbing higher and higher.

In seconds I had another orgasm. I pulled my dress down and dashed out of his office like I was Cinderella.

That just happened.

# Chapter 11

There was no turning back now. We had crossed the line. Some people could act like a kiss had never happened. But sex, you can't act like that never happened. You could block bad sex out but I would never be able to block or forget sex with Andrew.

How the hell was he born with the last name Trubeau? Seriously. Truly – Beautiful?

I listened to the radio on my way into work. Every single radio station had love songs playing simultaneously. Even if I wanted to feel down about my tryst, FM radio was determined to make me feel blissful.

I entered the office and Sharon wasn't at her desk. I smiled when I saw my white roses blooming on my desk. I should've taken them home with me but my Cinderella sprint didn't come with add-ons. I put my stuff down and went to face my superior.

I walked into his office with his vanilla bean coffee in one hand and a bottle of water in the other. He was gazing out the window. I didn't think he heard me enter the room. I stood there and just watched him. I was mustering up the courage to say something and trying to fight all the flashes of how he sexed me. I was trying to keep my panties dry.

_But he stuck his tongue in my ass hole. I can't stop thinking about that._

"I have your coffee."

He whipped around to engage me but he kept his distance. I appreciated that. I didn't want to end up bent over a desk this early in the morning. _Or did I?_

"Sharon took a personal day. Are you okay?" He ran his hand through his thick hair.

"I'm great." _This is awkward._

"How do you feel?"

"Normal, how do you feel?" I asked.

"I don't feel normal. I feel really good."

I placed his coffee on the desk. "Okay, I will be at my desk."

"Hey."

"Yes. Do you need water?" I raised the water bottle.

"No. I wanted to talk to you about last night."

"Oh, okay." _Last thing I wanted to talk about._

"Please come closer."

I walked a few steps forward but made sure I stayed on the opposite side of his desk. I looked down at the desk and back up at him.

He opened his mouth but it took a second for words to come out. "I, we, had unprotected sex."

"I'm not on birth control."

"You're not?"

"No."

"So."

"I'll just take the morning after pill."

"You will?"

"Yes." I reached in my pocket and produced the Plan B One-Step box.

"Where did you get that?"

"I went to the pharmacy this morning before I got your coffee. I was going to take the pill when I got back to my desk."

"Okay."

"I can just take it now." I didn't play games. He needed to see me take the pill. I was acting really nonchalant but I was feeling really emotional. The sex was better than good and I couldn't stop thinking about it— and him. I just wanted to leave the room.

I sat the water bottle on his desk. I removed the pill from the box and released it from the foil wrapper. I cupped the pill and opened the water bottle. I opened my hand so he could see the single pill in my palm.

I closed my palm and raised my hand.

"Wait."

_Why?_ _Why? Why? Am I waiting?_

"Are you going to be sick or something?"

"I don't know. I've never taken it before."

"Oh. Did you charge it on the card?"

"No."

"I think I should pay for it."

"Why would you pay for it?" I was being a smart ass. It was better to be hostile than an office booty call.

"I feel like I should pay. I didn't wear a condom."

"Fine. Give me half of forty-seven dollars." I popped the pill in my mouth and turned the water bottle up to my lips. I drank the water like I was dying of thirst. I didn't know how I felt. This was all new to me.

I recapped the water bottle.

"Are you really okay?"

"Yes, I'm just fine."

"You said the same thing when that supervisor attacked you in the mailroom."

"What do you want me to say?"

"I don't know. I can't stop thinking about you. I want you to know I have never ever done anything like that before."

I kind of believed him. "I haven't either."

He started coming around his desk and I started to panic. My feet were planted firmly but he almost knocked me off of them when he wrapped his arms around me and pulled me into a kiss. Not just any kiss, a passionate kiss, an epic kiss that can never be forgotten.

"Robin, I don't want this to stop. Do you want me to stop?"

Hell no! "No, I like this." _I almost said YOU_. I'm so glad I didn't put all of my cards on the table.

"I couldn't sleep last night thinking about us." _Us. Is there an us?_ "I think we should have dinner at my place tonight, only if you want to come over. I don't want you to come to dinner because you feel obligated. I'm not trying to force you to do anything. I want to date you outside of this." He raised his arms out. "I don't know if you're interested or did you feel pressured. I've never done this so I don't know what I'm doing."

He was so sexy and adorable when he was rambling on and on.

"You didn't coerce me. I wanted to. I want to have dinner with you."

"That's good. Great." He beamed. "I'm not good at reading people. You're like me. We don't really show our emotions on our face." That was true. "I know we've only known each other for eleven days but I like you."

He had counted the days. Why did that make me like him even more?

"I like you too." _Shit! I said it anyway._ I wanted to say more but I was afraid. I was really falling for Andrew and I didn't really know what to do with what I was feeling.

"I will keep my hands to myself at work."

We worked the entire day together without touching each other. I sat in on a meeting because Sharon was off. She usually did all the administrative type work.

I went home at four. I showered and changed before I drove over to his place. I didn't have any problems at the gate and the security guard even told me good evening Ms. MacDowell. He knew my name. At first, I was taken aback. I thought he had run the license plate. But the Audi wasn't registered in my name. Realizing Andrew gave him my name made me feel special.

# Chapter 12

After dinner, Andrew took me for a drive in his Land Rover. He drove us downtown and we went for a walk on the pier where we rode the Ferris wheel. We ordered gelato on the beach and talked about our dreams. He told me he wanted to be in a relationship. He told me he was tired of being alone. I listened more than I talked because I was afraid this wasn't real.

Mr. Trubeau seemed to be a real romantic. He was full of surprises and that intrigued me. Why was he still single? He was a modern day Prince. There had to be a catch but I prayed he was what he had shown me.

A little after midnight, Andrew pulled into the open space next to his Bugatti. He turned off the ignition and the garage door descended behind us. We both unbuckled our seatbelts.

"Robin, I have a confession."

"What is it?" I turned my body toward him.

"I'm afraid I'm going to mess this up before it even gets going."

"Why?"

"It's new. I've been single for a very long time."

"I've been single for a long time too. Maybe that makes us perfect for each other."

"Yeah, I think it does. Do you want to work for someone else in the company? You know to be someone else's assistant so we can see each other and not work together every day."

"Is that what you want?"

"No, I want you close to me. But I also want you to be comfortable. You're getting me coffee. Bringing my mail. Getting my lunch. Are you going to be okay with that?"

It was really not much of a difference than the things I did for my past ungrateful boyfriends. I didn't get a salary, health insurance or a car from those bastards.

"I'm okay with working for you. I want to make sure you eat and have coffee." _I like taking care of you._ I couldn't say that part out loud.

"Good. I didn't want to give you to someone else."

"You don't have to. I want to work for you."

Andrew leaned over and kissed me. I reached over and placed my hand on his lap. He stiffened in my hand.

"Move your seat back." This time I was giving the orders. He did as he was told and his driver's seat glided back from the steering wheel. I straddled his lap facing him. I made sure my tits were right in his face. He lifted my sundress up over my head and tossed it in the passenger seat.

I bent to kiss him while he reached around and unhooked my strapless bra. My breasts spilled out. He grabbed them in his hands. He reached for the truck's ceiling light and turned it on. He reclined his seat back a little and gazed at my breasts.

I lifted my bottom down and felt his hard dick. I was hoping for this and didn't wear panties under my dress. I felt his stiffness pressing into my skin. I lifted my body and let my nipple brush against his lips. He opened his mouth to taste my melons. His warm hand gripped my ass. He slapped my ass cheek hard.

"Raise up."

I moved up on my knees. So he could unbuckle, unbutton and unzip his jeans. He lowered his jeans enough to free his huge dick. He reached for my butt and palmed my bare ass. He ran my fingers into my ass crack and made circles on my forbidden hole.

He took a soft bite of my nipple with his lips.

"Aghhhh!!!" I cried out in ecstasy. I wanted him inside me. His dick was in front of me instead of inside me. I took a look down at it.

"Robin, baby. Sit down on it." His voiced hummed in my ear and sent shivers down one side of my body.

I lifted upward and let the tip of him rub my pussy lips. My heart started beating fast as I prepared to open to accommodate his girth.

My eyelids closed and I held my breath as I lowered myself down onto his steel pole. I let myself spread open before I started rocking back and forth on his stiff member. I opened my eyes to see his handsome face. He was staring at me. I bit my bottom lip and rolled my hips.

He placed both his hands on my waist then trailed his fingertips up and down my bare back. My breasts jiggled around and bounced up and down as I hurried my pace. I was falling in love with this man's dick. I wanted to make him come. I wanted to make him love me.

I ground my hips deep down on him so I could feel him in my chest.

He looked into his eyes. "Do you like my cock?"

"I love your huge cock," I told the truth.

"Can you take it all?"

_Uh, I thought I had it all._

He grabbed my shoulders and fiercely pushed me down onto him. He rammed me hard from underneath. He was fucking me now. He pushed me down until I was deeply immersed in the length of my cock. I tried to rise up for a bit of relief. But he wouldn't let me escape. He plowed into me like a jackhammer. He was fucking me fast and hard and lifting me so high I had to place my palms on the ceiling so I wouldn't bump my head.

"Oh, Andrew!"

He grabbed me by my neck and pulled my body tightly onto his. The tilt gave him more leverage and rubbed at the tip of my clit. I had a massive orgasm as he came and blasted cum inside me. I couldn't move. I was wet with sweat and cum fused together with my bad boss. I think he worked five pounds off my body. I'm going to have to eat more and take vitamins to hang with him.

"I want you. I want this every day." He spoke into my breasts because I was leaning into his face. I was tired but had enough strength to lean back. I pushed his wet hair back and looked down into his eyes.

"You can have it."

"Robin, I really care about you. I don't want to mess up with you."

I had a suggestion. "We could just take it one day at a time."

"That's a damn good idea." There it was, his adorable cheek dimple.

My boss, Mr. Andrew Trubeau had somehow crept into my heart and into my under-used pussy. I can't wait to spend more time with him. Is our future going to be filled with office desk sex, car sex, walks on the beach, flowers and ice cream?

_Shit!_

We didn't use protection.

We need to have a plan A.

So there is no need for Plan B.

* * *

Look for book 2 **BADDER BOSS**

* * *

# About the Author

Lolah Lace is a best selling author of Interracial Romantic Fiction in various sub genres. She currently resides in the Chicagoland area. She started her writing career as a teleplay and screenplay writer before switching gears and tackling a novel. She has published over forty novels. Lolah Lace is also the creator and screenwriter of the BWWM movie Single & Ready. Her latest standalone book is Sweet Love a rockstar interracial romance.

Thank you for purchase. All heartfelt reviews are greatly appreciated.

**TO REVIEW THIS BOOK @ SMASHWORDS**

Lolah Lace Smashwords Books

* * *

Don't forget to join my email newsletter for news, discounts, freebies and the chance to possibly get upcoming Advance Review Copies of upcoming releases.

**CLICK TO SIGN UP!**

* * *

Lolah Lace titles are available at website: http://www.lolahlace.com

To buy books at Smashwords: https://www.smashwords.com/profile/view/LolahLace

  Facebook

  Twitter

  Instagram

  YouTube

# Lolah Lace Novels

Lolah Lace titles are available at her website:

http://www.lolahlace.com

* * *

**_Balls To The Walls books by Lolah Lace_**

**_Let's Play Ball (Book One)_**

**_Line Of Scrimmage (Book Two)_**

**_Full Court Press (Book Three)_**

**_Free Agent (Book 3.5)_**

**_Bases Loaded (Book Four)_**

**_Flag On The Play (Book Five)_**

**_Out Of Bounds (Book Six)_**

**_Standalone books by Lolah Lace_**

**_Sweet Love_**

**_Business Vacation_**

**_Violation_**

**_The Boss Lady_**

**_Logan Enchanted_**

**_A Constant Reminder_**

**_Zebra Crossing_**

**_Someday At Christmas_**

* * *

**_The Boss Series_**

**_Bad Boss_**

**_Badder Boss_**

**_Baddest Boss_**

* * *

**_The Dating Series_**

**_Single & Ready_**

**_Single & Ready 2_**

* * *

**_The Truth Series_**

**_The Truth Behind The Lies_**

**_The Truth Behind The Lies 2_**

* * *

**_The Selita Series_**

**_Yellow Ghost_**

**_La Femme Selita_**

**_La Belle Selita_**

* * *

**_The Heart Novella Series_**

**_Heart of Glass_**

**_Heart of Stone_**

**_Heart of Gold_**

* * *

**_Fox Brothers Series_**

**_Hunters Hit List_**

**_Five Night Stand_**

**_(Coming Soon) Scarlet Fever_**
