

Back Cover Blurb

Claire holds the keys to her future, in more than one way.

As if the recent death of Claire Stevens' parents isn't enough, someone wants to steal Honeycreek Bed and Breakfast right out from under her. But Claire isn't about to roll over and let them. She's prepared to fight.

Jace Brown is Brookfield's main attorney, and after delivering the bad news to Claire about her property, he knows all about being on her bad side.

As Claire gets to the bottom of this scandal, she's surprised to have Jace by her side, fighting along with her. The attraction is instant, but can it last after the dust settles?

BED, BREAKFAST, AND YOU

Copyright © 2013, Lacey Wolfe

Smashwords Edition

Publisher: Southern Girl Press

Edited by Tara Chevrestt

Proofed by Ella Jade and Tamaria Soana

All rights reserved. Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above, no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form, or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise) without the prior written permission of both the copyright owner and the above publisher of this book.

This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, brands, media, and incidents are either the product of the author's imagination or are used fictitiously. The author acknowledges the trademarked status and trademark owners of various products referenced in this work of fiction, which have been used without permission. The publication/use of these trademarks is not authorized, associated with, or sponsored by the trademark owners.

www.laceywolfe.com

Bed, Breakfast, and You

The Brookfield Series Prequel

By Lacey Wolfe

Acknowledgments

I would like to take a moment to thank my wonder support system. I have made some great friends in this business who are always there with a shoulder to lean on. Thank you Ella Jade, Tamaria Soana, and Tara Chevrestt for always being there.

My editor, the wonderful Tara Chevrestt, thank you for everything you've taught me. With each round of edits I receive, I learn something new.

To my readers, I hope you enjoy this short story about Jace and Claire. And thank you for continuing to love the Brookfield series as much as I do!

Welcome to Brookfield, Wyoming. A fictional town you'll fall in love with. There will be secrets, scandals, and suspense. But the passion will be strong and the stories heartwarming.

The town is filled with little shops and some of the best restaurants around. The stores close early, but there is always someone around to give a helping hand. But with any small town, there will be gossip.

Enjoy your stay in Brookfield. We hope to see you again.

Chapter One

Jace pulled up to Honeycreek Bed and Breakfast. He sat in his car a few moments, gazing at the land as the sun set. A lake was nuzzled next to the main building. He assumed this place got its name from the small pond. Several small cabins were nestled around the water. At one time, this inn had been the place to stay. But unfortunately, the owners, Mr. and Mrs. Stevens, passed away six months before. They left the business to their daughter and rumor had it, she was back in town and staying there. Only he was coming here tonight to deliver bad news. He typically had someone who did this for him, but they'd recently quit—leaving him to do the dirty parts.

After he exited the vehicle, he quietly shut the door. He held the manila envelope in his hand a little too tight. Taking a deep breath, he climbed the wood steps and paused in front of the door. He remembered Claire Stevens very well. She was a petite blonde with a temper to go along. But if memory served him right, she had been gorgeous as well. She'd been in Brookfield's pageants and always won. Claire had a smile that could knock anyone dead and a killer body. She'd gone away for college and he hadn't seen her since—until now.

Jace knocked on the door then stood back. He waited a minute before he knocked again. Was she not here? He stepped off the porch and saw a red sedan parked to the side. Right about now it would be nice to have a number. He sighed with frustration and walked back toward his car, kicking the rock gravel on his way.

"Someone does not look happy," a female said with amusement.

Jace glanced up and saw her approaching him from the direction of the cabins.

"What can I do for you?" she asked.

"Claire Stevens, man, you haven't changed a bit."

She cocked her head to the side and flashed her winning smile. "Thanks, but do I know you?"

"Jace Brown. I was a few years ahead of you in school."

"Ah, well, Jace Brown, what is it I can do for you?"

He cleared his throat as he stared at the bombshell before him. "I'm actually here about this place."

"Oh yeah. I figured someone would be showing up before long with paperwork for me to sign since this place is all mine."

"That's sorta why I'm here." He'd never felt so flustered to give someone bad news. He motioned toward the Inn. "Can we go inside and sit?"

"Not in there. I'm staying in a cabin. I can't bear to sleep in there. The loss of my parents is still too fresh."

"Understandable."

"Follow me." She spun around and trotted toward her place.

Jace's eyes were glued to her behind. She wore dark jeans that hugged her in all the right ways. As she went up the steps, he was worried he might spring free from his own pants. He wiggled slightly, trying to hide the erection that was beginning. Claire didn't seem to notice.

She pointed at a couch and he took a seat.

"Would you like anything to drink?"

He'd love to sit and play catch up, but he knew once he gave this bad news to Claire, she'd kick him out. "I'm fine."

She shrugged and tossed her locks behind her shoulders. The cabin was small and consisted of a living area, an eat-in kitchen, and a doorway he assumed led to a bedroom. It had probably been at one time a designated cabin for the couple looking to escape the every days of life and get lost with one another.

She returned with what he assumed was a cup of coffee and took a seat in the chair directly in front of him.

"I'd like to say first I'm sorry about the loss of your parents."

"Thanks, it's still so weird they aren't here. I hadn't expected to be so young when I lost them. I thought I'd be married and have kids." She took a sip of her drink. "But that's life, I suppose. You never know what tomorrow is going to bring."

"You're right."

"So, what's in that envelope you're clutching so tightly? The deed or something?"

He took a deep breath and handed it to her. "Unfortunately, no."

Claire held the envelope and stared at him. "What do you mean? They owned this place. It's been paid for."

"You're correct about that."

"Then what? Tell me."

"They haven't paid taxes in several years. And with their death and the back taxes owed, this property is in line to go to auction. Unless you pay the back taxes."

"What? Are you kidding me?" She tore the envelope open and pulled out the papers. She was silent as she skimmed through the documents.

Jace knew the numbers she was looking at and it would be a miracle for her to be able to save the place alone. He hated this part of his job and he supposed this was why it was so hard to keep his assistants. Giving folks this type of bad news was hard.

Claire set the papers down on the table beside her. "I need time. This can't be right. I know this isn't right."

Jace nodded. "I understand. But you don't have long."

"No crap." She crossed her arms. "Thirty days. I read it. Just know one thing. I'm not losing this place. I grew up here and I plan to run this place until God takes me home one day as well."

"I hope so."

Claire drank from her mug again and then said, "Anything else, Mr. Brown?"

"No. My phone number is in there if you have any questions."

"Then I guess you're welcome to go."

Jace stood and watched her a moment. But she said nothing else, just stared down at the papers in front of her. He let himself out and as he walked back toward his car, he decided he needed to get an ad in the Brookfield paper pronto for a new assistant. He didn't want to do this again.

* * *

This couldn't be right. Absolutely not.

Claire pulled the cell phone from her back pocket, but then stared at the blank screen. Who was she going to call? She'd only been back in town a short while. Sure, she could call her friend Seth Hampton, the sheriff, but he had bigger problems than this. He had a town to run.

She placed the phone down on the table next to the papers, then propped her face in her hands and stared at what was in front of her. The amount her parents owed didn't make sense. There had to be something else going on and she was going to get to the bottom of it. She needed to get into their office and have a look around. And perhaps calling Seth wasn't that bad an idea. With his help, they'd have this solved in no time. And Honeycreek would once again be open.

Chapter Two

Claire took a deep breath before pushing open the glass door that led to Jace Brown's law office. The place was dead inside.

"Hello," she called.

A chair rolling echoed through the quiet office, followed by footsteps. Jace appeared. "Claire, hi."

"Is this a bad time?"

"No."

She eyed the empty desk. "Assistant off today?"

"I'm hiring a new one."

She nodded. "Anyway, can we talk a moment?"

"Sure. Come in and sit down." He motioned toward his office.

Claire went in and had a seat in front of his desk. After he sat down, they stared at one another a moment. She had to admit the man was hot. He wore a navy business suit and not a hair was out of place on his head. His green eyes had a sparkle to them.

"I get you're like the town lawyer or whatever, which sucks for me at the moment. Guess I need to head up to Jackson Hole. But I don't believe this. Something funny is going on and I intend to find out."

"You have every right to. But what exactly do you think is going on?"

She grinned. "You work for the other side. What makes you think I'd tell you?"

He tilted his head to the side. "Why are you here?"

She leaned forward, letting her cleavage show. She knew she had a killer rack and Jace was happy to oblige by looking. "I'm just letting you know I'm going to fight this. I'm not going to roll over and let someone take my family business."

His gaze diverted back to her face. "I think you might need to accept the fact that things might have been tougher for your parents than they let on. Honeycreek was once a very popular place, but in the last few years more tourists have been going elsewhere."

"It's a good thing I just finished my degree in business." She cleared her throat. "And what you might not know...when I began business school, my parents let me control a good portion of their assets. And I know for a fact those taxes were paid. I signed the checks."

Jace's face went white.

Claire smirked and rose. "So, Mr. Brown." She leaned forward again, her hands on his desk. "You can see why I'm not going to roll over and let someone take something that's rightfully mine." She straightened and headed toward his office door. "Oh, by the way. I've already contacted Seth Hampton."

She left feeling very pleased with herself. Whoever thought they could pull a fast on her had another thing coming.

* * *

It wasn't even an hour later that Jace heard the door open and shut again. He left his office, hoping it might be the interviewee he had coming this afternoon. At this rate, he might hire her on the spot.

"Sheriff," Jace greeted, "what do I owe this visit?" As if he didn't already have an idea. Claire hadn't been lying.

"Got a second? Can we talk somewhere private?" Seth asked.

Jace motioned to the empty office. "It's just me here."

"Ms. Stevens was by to see me. I'm guessing this isn't a surprise to you though."

Jace chuckled. "She's been by here today as well."

"She brought me her paperwork. And her story is correct. The taxes have been paid. She even has bank records showing where the money has been removed from the account."

"Crap." Jace rubbed his temple. Who the hell would mess with the property taxes?

"Any ideas who might be up to this? It's gotta be someone on the inside at the tax department." Seth cleared his throat. "If you know anything, now is the time to tell me."

"I don't. I swear." The town was so small, only a few people worked there. And it had to be a long-term employee. "I'll help in any way I can. Just let me know what you need."

"I appreciate it. I'll ask Ms. Stevens to cool her temper and cut you some slack. At the moment, she really dislikes you."

"We'll get to the bottom of this. I don't want to be on her bad side."

Seth laughed. "Me either. I'll see you soon, I'm sure."

After the sheriff was gone, Jace slumped down into a chair in the waiting area. Of all the times to not have anyone else working for him, now something was going on. The first thing he needed to do was go down to the tax office and question them himself.

* * *

Claire sat with a stupid piece of paper in her hand with a number on it: E56. Looking at the screen that said what number they were on: E55. They'd been on E55 for the last fifteen minutes. Why did she have the feeling they were ignoring her on purpose?

Her foot tapped loudly. She could care less if she was annoying the women behind the counter, because they were frustrating her. She let out a loud sigh and the older lady shot her a glare.

"It'll be a few more minutes." Irritation laced the woman's tone.

Claire rolled her eyes. Of course it would be. This place was deserted.

The door from the outside opened and to her surprise, Jace walked in. He didn't see her. He walked up to the front, skipping a number. Jerk!

"Mr. Jenkins here?" he asked.

The older woman behind the counter smiled at him as she approached. "Not yet. We've been trying to get a hold of him."

"Tell him I need to speak to him. It's an urgent matter."

Claire wondered what was so urgent for Jace. She was the one with a matter that needed to be taken care of right then.

"I will, Mr. Brown. Is there anything else I can do for you?"

"No." He turned from the woman, glanced up at the ceiling, and then finally noticed her. "Claire."

"I'm beginning to dislike you even more. I've been sitting here for twenty minutes. It's dead as can be. Those ladies back there are ignoring me," Claire said.

"I'm sorry about that."

"E56. Now serving E56," The overhead intercom blared.

Go figure. "If you'll excuse me."

She brushed past Jace, feeling a strange jolt in her body from the touch. She glanced back at him as he left the building. Her eyes watched his ass for a moment. Man, that gentleman could wear a suit in the right ways to make a girl swoon. No, I should not be swooning over him.

"What can I do for you?" the woman asked.

"I need to speak to someone about a tax mistake. Something happened in the records department and I've got the papers to get it corrected."

"You'll have to make an appointment. And as you heard, Mr. Jenkins isn't in."

"I'm sure someone here can help me."

"I'm sorry, we can't. But if you leave your name and number, we'll get something scheduled soon," the woman replied.

Claire moaned. "No. That doesn't work for me. I need to get this cleared up today."

"Ma'am. I'm going to have to ask you to leave."

Claire looked at the name tag on the woman's shirt: Mrs. Moore. She was going to make a note to remember her name and give it to Seth. "Fine. Give me a piece of paper and I'll write my info down."Mrs. Moore pushed a pad toward her. Claire wrote the required information down and pushed the pad back. "If I don't hear from anyone in the next day or two, I'll be back. Be sure to tell Mr. Jenkins that as well."

"Have a nice day." Mrs. Moore smiled.

As she left the building, Claire couldn't shake the feeling something was off. Someone was against her and she couldn't figure out why. Why would someone want her parents' property so bad that they would go to this much trouble? Why not just approach them and ask if they could buy it? Right about now, she'd love to sit down with her parents and find out what they might not have shared with her.

Chapter Three

Claire walked around the inside of Honeycreek Bed and Breakfast and made notes on things she wanted to do before the grand reopening. Hopefully by the time she was ready to open, she'd be ready to sleep in here as well. When she first arrived, she'd planned on opening it almost right away, but with this tax crap, she knew she needed to wait. Which meant she had no money coming into her pocket.

She remembered Jace needed a receptionist. Maybe she could temporarily work for him—the enemy. Then she'd be on the inside and she'd have access to files. She was brilliant. Why hadn't she thought of this before?

But would Jace hire her?

The chances were pretty slim, but it never hurt to ask.

She headed back to her cabin to find the card he'd given her with his info on it. She'd much rather be shot down for the job over the phone than in person. The papers were now in her bedroom on her nightstand. She sifted through them until she found the small rectangular business card.

She pulled her cell phone from her back pocket and dialed the number.

"Jace Brown speaking," he answered.

"Jace, it's Claire."

"What can I do for you?"

She smiled, now wishing she could see his face. "I'm calling about the assistant job. Do you still need someone?"

"Yeah, but—"

"With this mess going on, I could temporarily fill that position. I have no money coming in since I can't reopen Honeycreek at the moment. And it would be a win-win for us both," she explained.

"Yeah, but—"

"I just can't see how it would be bad. You have someone to answer your phones and I'll be able to make some money. And if I'm being honest, it might help me find the bad guy. Unless you're the bad guy."

"Can I speak now?" he asked.

She giggled. "Sure."

"I'd love to hire you, but that would look odd, wouldn't it?"

"What's so odd about it? I need a job and you're desperate to hire."

"I'm not—"

"Yes, you are. So how about it? I'll be there in the morning at eight sharp," Claire said.

He sighed. "I'm not going to get a word in, am I?"

"The sooner you give me what I want, the sooner I'll be out of your hair. And I have a feeling you'd like my case to get solved quickly. So, if you let me help, we can solve this together."

"What about the sheriff? Isn't he working on it?"

"He is. But I've never been one to sit around and wait. I like to take control." She grinned. "If you know what I mean," she added the last part for the laugh. She was sure Jace's eyes were wide at the moment.

"I'm only agreeing to this because I do need the help. I have no idea how this is going to work. But I guess I'll see you at eight tomorrow."

"Great. See you then." She ended the call.

That had worked out better than she'd expected. Then again, she hadn't even given the poor man a chance to speak. She plopped down on her bed. Hopefully tomorrow she'd be one step closer to solving this mystery.

* * *

After placing the receiver back in the cradle, Jace stared at it, wondering if that conversation had just happened. This probably wasn't a good thing. Claire working with him would be a mistake. She didn't let him get a word in edgewise. Tomorrow he'd fix it. He'd tell her sorry. Even as much as he liked her and believed something was going on, she was technically the enemy, since he did all the legal things for the tax office. Having her on his payroll would put him on their bad side. Then again, they were up to something. Or someone was.

Tapping his finger on his desk, he thought of Claire's parents. They'd always been lovely people, and very active in the community—unlike his parents. Small town life hadn't been for them. They'd raised him in Brookfield, and the first chance they got, they left. They visited from time to time, but his mom was now pursuing a senior modeling job in California. Jace didn't fully understand it, but his parents' were devoting all their time to making his mother famous.

Jace had visited them a few times in California, but it wasn't for him. He liked Brookfield. He was just waiting to find his perfect woman so he could start his own life. Jace enjoyed the way everyone knew everyone here and there was always someone around if needed. Brookfield was still one of those places that if your car broke down on the side of the road, someone would stop to help—not assume the person had a cell phone and had already called for help.

In his eyes, Brookfield was perfect and he never planned to leave.

Ding. Ding.

He pushed away from the desk at the sound of the door opening upfront. Who's here now? Ah, the girl who was supposed to interview. Crap. And he'd practically told her this position was hers.

"Hi," he greeted her, recognizing her right away. She currently worked at the tax office as well.

"Hi, Mr. Brown. I'm sorry about having to reschedule the interview." She smiled sweetly at him.

"It's no problem, Ms. Wilkins."

"Please call me Tonya."

"Tonya." He took a deep breath. "I would like to apologize, but the position was literally just filled."

Her smile faded. "I don't understand. You made it seem like this was a done deal."

That he had. "I-I," he raked his hands through his hair, "I'm really sorry."

"Is it because I had to reschedule?"

"No. But the person I hired is only temporary."

"I would be full time, not temporary. Isn't that better?"

Yes, yes it was. He needed someone full time and here he had the perfect candidate. "I've got an idea."

Tonya perked up again.

"Maybe you can both work here part time for now. And when she's finished here, you can get started full time."

Tonya shrugged. "I guess that would work."

"Good, good. I'm glad. When do you want to start?" he asked.

"I can start now." She tucked a bleached-blond strand behind her ear.

"I'm happy to see you so enthusiastic. But today is just about over. How about tomorrow around one?"

"All right." She stared at him a moment, her brown eyes studying him. "I guess I'll see you tomorrow at one."

She spun around on her heels and left. Jace watched as she went down the sidewalk and out of sight. He wondered if he should find it strange that she worked or had worked at the tax office and now wanted to work for him. It was probably just a coincidence, small town and all. But still, he'd keep his eye on her.

He laughed. As if that young woman had anything to do with Claire's troubles.

* * *

Claire opened the front door to Jace's law office, a tray of coffee in one hand. She set the tray down on her new desk. Jace was in his office already, lost, as he stared blankly into his computer monitor. He was a very attractive man. She wondered how much of a dating life he had. Not my concern, she reminded herself.

"Morning," she greeted.

"Claire, hi. I was just answering my morning email. I'll be out in a minute."

She nodded and went back to her desk. She pulled the rolling chair back and took a seat. She bounced a little, enjoying the comfort of the chair. His former secretary couldn't complain about the seating.

She had her own computer. She leaned forward and switched it on. As she waited for it to boot up, she took a sip of her coffee. A few minutes later Jace appeared.

"Is that for me?" He motioned toward the other cup. She nodded. "Wow, thank you."

"No problem."

He took a sip then said, "We've had a change of plans."

"Oh." She had a feeling she wouldn't like where this was going.

"Since you're here only temporarily until your case is solved, I went ahead and hired someone else too. She'll be in at one and you can leave."

"Can I get a raise?"

He spit his coffee out. "Can you what?"

"A raise. I need money, after all. And since I can't open Honeycreek and start the renovations I wanted to, I took this job thinking it was full time. Now you've sprung this on me."

She watched him. It appeared the wheels were turning fast in his head. It took everything in her to keep a straight face.

"I can't give you a raise. I'm sorry."

"Can you let the other girl go?"

"Claire, did you not hear what I said?"

"I did."

He sighed. "I'm going to drink this coffee in my office."

"Okay. What do you need me to do?"

He stared at her blankly. "I don't know."

He walked off, leaving her by herself. God, he was hot when flustered and she loved doing it to him. Sure, she could make his life easier and not purposely irritate him, but what fun would that be?

It was probably good he'd hired someone else as well. She could spend her afternoon doing what she could herself to Honeycreek, so once this mystery was solved, she could get the place open. She had so many visions and couldn't wait to get started on them.

Now to figure out who might want her parents' land. She spun the chair around and opened the filing cabinet behind her. She thumbed through the files, but wasn't seeing anything with her parents' name or Honeycreek on it.

"Looking for something?" Jace asked from behind her.

"Just trying to familiarize myself with everything."

"If you're looking for a specific file, I've already pulled it and have it tucked safely away."

She turned back toward him. "What would I be looking for?"

"Okay, let's cut the crap."

Wow, coffee gave this man a jolt and it excited her. She'd remember to bring him a cup again.

"I get you need money, but I doubt you're hurting that bad. You want to get to the bottom of this and you think working here will help. And it might. But you have to put your trust in Seth that he'll get to the bottom of this."

"I trust Seth. I don't trust you."

He grunted."I want you out of here as much as you don't want to be here. The sooner this is solved, the sooner you're gone. And let's get something straight," he glared at her, "I'm not the bad guy. I'm not trying to take your land. And I want to find the culprit as much as you do. Do you have any idea how bad this makes me look?"

She nodded. "You're right. I'm sorry."

His body relaxed. "Thank you. Now can we move on?"

"Yes."

He handed her a list of two names. "I need you to deliver papers to them. And yes, their taxes haven't been paid either."

"I have to give them the bad news?"

"Yup. Have fun." He went back to his office, but before entering, he glanced back at her. "While you're out, I need more staples."

"Not a problem."

She saw him smirk and then he disappeared inside. If she was going to have to go out, she'd make use of her time wisely.

* * *

Seth grinned and leaned back in his chair. "I think you have a crush on Jace."

"Do not," Claire argued

"He's all you've talked about. And you think this whole thing revolves around him."

"He started it."

Seth laughed. "All he did was deliver the news he had to. He had no idea someone was up to no good. If you'd leave it to me, I could get this solved fairly quickly."

Claire raised an eyebrow. "Oh yeah, and what have you done?"

"For one, I got a warrant and Cody is down at the tax office right now getting all files that have to deal with Honeycreek."

"That's good."

"And Mrs. Moore said you were down there." He gave her a stern look.

"Yeah, so?"

"So, if you'd let me do my job and quit causing more problems—"

"Wait a second. I didn't cause any problems at the tax assessor's office. They ignored me and still, no one has called me back. I need to talk to someone named Mr. Jenkins. He's probably the one who wants my land."

"Mr. Jenkins? I doubt it."

She sighed. "And why is that?"

"He's getting ready to retire."

Claire crossed her arms. Apparently everyone here in Brookfield was wonderful and no one could see any of them doing what she was accusing them of. At this point the best case scenario was when they got the files on Honeycreek, they'd discover there had been a mix-up at some point and yes, the taxes had been paid. Because they had.

"I'll do my best to stay out of it and let you do your thing."

"Thank you. And I promise as soon as I have a lead, I'll let you know. Deal?"

"Deal." She glanced at her watch and saw it was almost noon. She'd better hurry back to the office, even though she was set to leave at one. "I'll see you soon, Seth."

He nodded. "I don't doubt that."

As she was heading to leave, she heard him call to her, "Oh, if you need any woodwork done, be sure to keep Mark Thomas in mind. He's new in town."

"Will do."

As she left the police station, she told herself she needed to listen to Seth, but something in her gut told her to keep digging herself. Seth took such pride in Brookfield. He'd made it pretty clear he didn't think any of the people she suspected had done anything. So, who did that leave?

Chapter Four

Claire was running late getting back to the office. Jace would probably fire her, but hopefully the sub sandwiches currently sitting in her passenger seat would help put her back in his good graces.

Once she found a parking spot, she grabbed the brown bag and ran toward the office. She entered, breathless, and even worse, hated seeing an extremely attractive bleached-blonde sitting at the desk. My desk.

"Hi, I'm Tonya. Can I help you?" she said sweetly.

Claire wasn't sure why she felt so jealous suddenly, but seeing this woman there really irritated her. "Claire. I'm the morning secretary."

"Oh, hi. Nice to meet you."

"Same here. Jace in his office?"

"He is." Tonya stood and blocked the pathway to Jace's office.

Claire grinned at her and then brushed past her to the office. She paused in the doorway. His back was to her and he was on the phone in what seemed to be a heated discussion. Backing out slowly, she turned and bumped into Tonya.

"Sorry," Claire said, irritated with this woman already.

"He's been in there awhile. He doesn't want to be disturbed," Tonya said before sitting down at the desk again.

"I'll sit and wait, I guess."

Claire had hoped they wouldn't have to mingle, but Tonya sat there with a big smile on her face. Finally, she leaned forward and in the quietest manner she could, said, "He's hot, don't you think?"

Claire perked up. Had Tonya really just asked her that? But before she could answer, Tonya continued, "I'm hoping that maybe I can snag a date with him."

It was then Claire noticed how Tonya was dressed and the jealousy she'd been feeling really took off. Tonya wore a low-cut v-neck shirt that was very tight. And Claire swore she could see the tips of white lace.

Claire's jaw ached and she realized she'd been clenching her teeth. "Oh, yeah?"

"As long as you're not interested." Tonya paused to take a deep breath before adding, "I wouldn't want to have a problem between you and me."

"You can have him." The words came out much quicker than Claire had intended.

"Good! I can't wait to make my move."

Something in Claire's chest squeezed. And then it felt like something snapped in her. She began to feel angry at Tonya. Jealousy was coursing through her body as her muscles tightened, and Claire couldn't understand fully why. Sure, Jace was a very attractive man and Claire enjoyed getting a rise out of him, but that was it. There was no way she was developing feelings for this man, was she?

"How do you know Jace?" Tonya asked as she stared at her manicured nails.

"We went to high school together. He was a year or two ahead of me, I think. I don't remember him well."

"I bet he was popular back then."

Claire hadn't taken the time in all this mess to dig out her yearbook and look up Jace to see if she remembered him. That would be the first thing she did when she got home. "I'm sure he was."

"Any advice on how I might be able to get him to notice me?"

Claire's focus diverted back to Tonya's rack and she snickered. "I'd say you're dressed the part."

"It isn't too much?"

Claire wasn't sure what to say. It was too much and it screamed "I'm desperate. Take me".

"He'll notice."

"Good." Tonya laid her head on the hand she'd recently been admiring. "I'm sorry to hear about your parents."

"Thanks." She never knew what to say to a total stranger. "It's still so strange."

"Well, you seem to be doing great."

"What other choice do I have? I can't bring them back. All I can do is move on and honor their memory." She looked at her watch and then stood up, removing her sub from the paper bag. She then set the bag on the desk. "Give this to Jace, okay?"

"Sure thing. Though he probably won't be too hungry. I brought him homemade lasagna."

Bitch! Claire wanted to kick herself for having such a thought, but come on. Even if she wanted to compete with Barbie here, she couldn't. She'd come in dead last.

"He can always have it tomorrow. See ya, Tonya." Claire turned and left, feeling defeated and hating herself even more for feeling that way.

* * *

Jace set the phone down. He'd called Mr. Jenkins and hadn't expected things to get so heated. The man was upset about the situation with Claire and the police now questioning them. Apparently several officers had been by with a warrant to collect paperwork. Mr. Jenkins was certain the taxes hadn't been paid and his staff would never make a mistake. He then demanded Jace put a stop to this. But how? Claire was a determined woman and he agreed with her. Someone had made a mistake or wanted her property.

His stomach rumbled. He'd missed lunch. As he went into the main part of the office, he glanced around for Claire. He was certain he'd seen her not long ago. She'd left that morning and never returned. Hopefully she'd remembered the staples.

"Hey, Tonya. Did I see Claire?"

She twirled a lock of hair around her finger and he almost expected her to blow a bubble with the gum she was smacking. "You did. But she's gone."

"Did she happen to leave staples?"

Tonya shook her head in an odd way. Her breasts stuck out and he had a feeling the girl wanted him to look at them. "I got you lunch though."

"You did?"

"Yes. I hope you like subs."

"I do. And thank you. That was very sweet of you. Did you run out? I don't remember you bringing this when you came in." He picked up the paper sack.

Tonya's smile faded for a moment then it went back on. "It was in my bag. I ate mine while you were in the office. So, what can I do?"

"I really need staples."

Tonya giggled. "Looks like your morning secretary is no good at her job."

Jace wasn't sure why, but hearing Tonya say something negative about Claire annoyed him. "I had her running a ton of errands. I'm sure she didn't mean to forget."

"It's her job not to forget. Would you like me to run out?" she asked.

"No, I think I got it. Can you handle answering the phones for about an hour?"

"I can handle anything you give me."

Did she just say that? Was she possibly referring to...? "Good to know."

Jace locked his office door, and as he took a bite of his sub, he left. Something wasn't right about that girl. She was coming on to him strong. Between the shirt with her breasts spilling out, bringing him lunch, and then that comment. Sure, he should be flattered. And his dating life had been non-existent lately. But Tonya was young. She needed to grow up a little more. He wasn't even sure how far over legal she was.

Twenty minutes later, Jace had the staples he needed. And as he drove back to the office, he found he was headed in a different direction. And before he knew it, was sitting at the light that if he took a left, he'd be heading to Honeycreek. When the light turned green, he hesitated a moment and finally when someone honked the horn behind him, he pressed the gas and went straight through the light. He didn't need to go to Honeycreek. The more things got personal with Claire, the more he liked her. And Seth's words rang through his head. She dislikes you. But Jace also knew there was a fine line between love and hate. However, pursuing a relationship with Claire right about now probably wasn't the best idea.

* * *

Jace watched Claire as she made her way up the sidewalk toward the office. She carried a tray again with two cups of coffee from The Roasted Cup. He could get used to that. And with Tonya bringing lunch, he'd be set.

"Morning," she said as she came in.

"Good morning to you."

She set her stuff down on the desk. "Coffee if you want one. It isn't homemade, so I hope that's okay."

Homemade? "Coffee is coffee, right?"

"I'd like to think so."

As she got situated, he took a moment to give her a once-over. She wore a pair of black slacks that made her ass look amazing. In fact, he could stare at it all day. She also wore a light blue blouse that she had left unbuttoned. And if she wasn't wearing a white top under, he'd get an eyeful of her luscious breasts. But Claire kept them covered—unlike Tonya. Claire's breasts he wanted to see a little more than he was willing to admit. He'd gotten a good eyeful of them the day she stormed into his office. Perhaps he could come up with a way again to reenact that scenario.

"Something wrong?" she asked.

She'd caught him. "Sorry, zoned out a moment. Guess I should get to work."

"Oh, before I forget," she dug through her purse and handed him something, "staples. I forgot to leave them yesterday when I left the sub sandwich."

"You left a sub?"

"Yeah. Maybe Tonya put it in the fridge or something. She said you'd already eaten the lasagna she brought you. So if she doesn't bring you something homemade again, you've got lunch."

Homemade. He got it now. But why the hell had Tonya lied to Claire and in return told him she'd brought the sub?

"Thank you. That was very nice of you." He turned and went to his office.

Taking a long gulp of coffee, he still couldn't understand why Tonya had fibbed. Obviously she liked him, and for whatever reason, thought claiming she brought the sandwich would get her one step closer. But then as he thought over his conversation with Claire, he got a sense she was irritated by Tonya. The homemade comment and she wasn't her usual self. His last few encounters with her, she'd been feisty. But this morning, she was just here.

He set the cup down and popped his head back out the doorway. Claire was getting the computer booted. "Everything go okay yesterday?"

She looked up. "Yeah. I hated having to give those folks the bad news. Sorry I was so hard on you."

He chuckled. "It's okay. If what was happening to you was happening to me, I'd feel the same way."

She smiled slightly and it was the most beautiful one he'd ever seen. He was experiencing one of those heart-stopping moments. "I left a list on the desk of things I need done this morning. If it's too much, just leave it for Tonya."

She nodded. He went back inside his office, needing a moment. He couldn't believe the way being in a room with her made his heart pitter patter. She'd only been back in his life a few days and he couldn't understand why he was falling so fast for her. He'd always found her attractive in high school and if memory served him right, besides being popular for her looks, she was also one of those girls who did things to help others. In fact, he remembered she used to head the committee to keep Brookfield clean. Every Saturday, a group of kids would walk around cleaning up trash, among other things.

He was pretty sure she didn't remember him though. He hadn't been in the popular crowd. And when he was in high school, if you didn't play football, you weren't anyone. The only thing that kept him from being a complete no one was that he played on the school's baseball team and he'd been one of the best players.

* * *

The morning went by fast. Claire had stayed busy with paperwork that needed to be typed up. She moaned loudly as she stretched her back. She'd never been one to sit for long periods of time. She liked to be active.

With her work done, she pulled out her binder that contained her to-do list for Honeycreek. There really wasn't much that needed to be done. Her parents had kept the place up-to-date, minus the bedrooms. For now, she'd open a cabin or two and possibly two rooms at a time. She didn't expect to be busy much right away, so it would give her time to get the place ready. Honeycreek stayed active during the summer. It was cool usually. But the winter months were busy as well. Brookfield always got a good bit of snow. The lake froze over and it was a popular place to ice skate. The last few years though, her parents had been closing in the winter. Which she'd argued with them until she was blue in the face that it was a mistake. They didn't listen. It was then that things at Honeycreek started to go downhill, and the tourism in Brookfield went down. She wanted to help the town and all the small businesses. Honeycreek being open year-round was the key.

When she left she would go by the hardware store and get some paint samples. The only place she might need help painting was the large foyer and dining area, because of the vaulted ceilings.

"Lost in thought?" Jace asked from beside her.

"Oh, sorry. I was done with work and going over what I needed to do later."

"Can I see?" She pushed the binder his way. After a moment he said, "Do you need help with anything?"

"Probably. It's a bigger project than I expected it to be." Claire sighed, not because of the work ahead, but because of how close Jace was. She could smell his cologne and it was driving desire through her body at rapid speed. She almost felt the urge to wiggle in her seat she was getting so worked up.

"Let me know. I like doing things like painting." His face was close and it was taking everything in her not to reach out and touch the stubble.

Claire laughed to break the connection. "Why?"

He shrugged and took a step back. "I don't know. I enjoy changing the color and stepping back to admire it."

"I can see that. I might take you up on it then. I don't think I can do some areas by myself."

"Maybe I can come over and give you a few ideas." His gaze locked on hers.

Jace and her alone—not a good idea. Yet her mouth didn't listen. "That would be great. When did you have in mind?"

"I could come tonight." He looked at his watch. "Maybe even now. I'm done for the day. Perks of owning your own business."

Her heart raced as she nodded her head like an idiot. "That would be great. What about Tonya?"

"Already called her and told her we were closing early today. If you're up for it, how about I go home and change, then drive over?" he suggested.

"Uh, yeah. That works." She was going to see this man out of a suit. As good as he looked in one, imagining him in a pair of jeans got her motors really pumping.

"I'll see you in a bit." He winked and went into his office.

Claire took several deep breaths as she packed her stuff. She left quickly and without telling him bye. Before he got there, she needed to get her emotions and hormones under control. Otherwise, she might do something she'd end up regretting.

* * *

Jace climbed the steps of Honeycreek. He assumed Claire was in there since he'd knocked on her cabin door and gotten no answer. The door was cracked so he took it as a sign he could let himself in.

When he entered, he stopped. Claire was bent over and he had no idea what she was doing. All he saw was miles of creamy skin, long, lean legs, and a pair of short-shorts. His cock liked the view as well and pressed on his zipper, wanting a better look obviously.

Claire stood slowly and glanced over her shoulder. Her blond hair was up in a messy ponytail. "Hey."

He tugged at his waistband to reposition his pants. "Hey."

She placed her hands on her hips and he saw she wore a tiny tank top. A low, cut one that left little to his imagination. He needed to turn around right now and leave. Otherwise, he would kiss her, and more if she allowed it. And at this moment, his second head was really hoping she wanted to meet.

Trying to get his mind on anything else, he glanced around. The ceilings were tall in the main room. At least twenty-four feet. The sun shone through the windows at the top, illuminating the entire room. This room was all wood paneling, but the real kind, like a log cabin. Not much had changed in the décor since he'd been here as a child. He hoped Claire kept it the way it was and didn't modernize it too much.

"This is the room that's going to be a pain," she said. "The ceilings are so tall. And I must admit I'm a little afraid of heights."

"How? You were the cheerleader that they always tossed in the air or whatever." And the boys also got a peek at the blue bloomers.

"I hated it." She smiled. "I can't believe you remember that. Or me, for that matter."

Claire Stevens was not someone a man could forget. And even with a few years added, she still stole his breath. "I've got a ladder to get up there. It won't be a problem."

"Cool. I don't want to do anything though until this mess gets cleared up. I was just doing some cleaning."

She could clean his place any day dressed like that. "I'm sure it will be soon."

"You look nice out of a suit. I hardly recognize ya." She winked.

He was going to take that as a compliment.

"I hate that you drove all the way out here for nothing. Guess I should've thought about that before."

"It's no problem at all." He stepped inside a little farther and glanced around. "I volunteered."

"Can I get you a drink or anything?"

"Yeah." His throat felt dry.

"Soda okay?" she called as she headed in the opposite direction.

"Uh-huh." His gaze was on her ass. If those shorts were just slightly smaller, he'd get a shot of her—enough! He had to quit. But when she came back from wherever, carrying a red can, his cock sprang to life again. And this time, he was certain she noticed. Oh yeah, she noticed.

As she handed him the drink, he could tell by the smile she wore that she knew he was hard. Crap. How was he going to look her in the face now? He wasn't some fourteen-year-old boy. He should be able to control it.

"What are you going to charge for the paint job?" she asked as she took a seat on one of the leather couches.

He sat on the same couch. "Nothing. Just supply pizza or something."

"You're easy to please."

More than you know. "That sub you brought the other day was really good."

"Thanks. I wasn't sure what you liked on it, so I kinda guessed when I had it made."

"You had all my favorites put on it."

Silence stood between them and he was glad. He needed the time to compose himself and get his emotions under control. He wanted to inch close, wrap his hand around her neck, and let his lips explore her. But he wasn't sure if she felt the same way yet.

"I'm sorry for the way I acted and how I accused you of things you didn't do," she said. "I jumped to conclusions. Obviously, someone has done something and I intend to get to the bottom of it, but I was wrong to assume you had anything to do with it. It's just hard. If my parents were here, they could help. But they aren't."

Jace scooted closer when he saw her eyes grow moist. He offered an arm and Claire took it, laying her head on his shoulder.

"I hate that they were both taken from me. It's not fair. And all I want to do is let their dream of this place live on. And someone is getting in the way. I don't understand."

"You have a great piece of property here and could make someone very rich if they could get their hands on it. I'm sure your parents have had offers throughout the years from big companies wanting to buy it from them."

He felt her head nod.

"And that's the only thing I can think of. Whoever it is sees the money they could get if they pull this off."

She sat up and stared at him. "Well whoever it is has never met me or else they'd know I will fight for what I want with everything I've got."

He stared into her eyes. When she licked her lips, he couldn't hold back any longer. He reached out, yanked her to him, and kissed her.

He expected her to push him away and slap him. But she melted into him, giving herself. She opened to him, letting their tongues meet in the middle. He held her tightly around the waist and her hands returned the favor by clinging to his neck.

He tilted her head back so he could deepen the kiss. His other half below the belt returned to standing position, only this time he didn't care. He wanted Claire to know exactly what she did to him.

Jace broke the kiss momentarily to trail his lips down her neck to her collarbone, giving himself a peek at what she had inside her shirt. Damn, she had a full set and his tongue begged to taste. To dip down and lick between her breasts. Claire must have sensed how he felt. She pulled his face back to hers. And then she spoke and nearly gave him a heart attack.

"I think we should go back to my place and sleep together."

Chapter Five

"You w-want...you want t-to..." Jace stuttered.

"Yes. I want to," Claire said. She'd wanted to since she walked in and saw he had a hard-on. And when she spotted it again, she found herself wet. He wore a pair of jeans better than she imagined. And the black t-shirt—heaven. "We're attracted to each other. Let's just do it and then move on."

"This is a one-time thing?"

"I guess we could do it more. But I think we need to at least once. We're both single and at the moment horny. Why not?"

Jace stared at her and her nipples puckered. She reached down for the hem of her shirt, ready to take it off when he stopped her.

"God, I can't believe I'm going to say this. But if this is a one-time thing, I don't think we should."

She placed her hands in her lap.

Jace continued speaking, "I want to. Please know that. And right about now, if my dick had a gun, it'd shoot me. But let's be honest. No one can sleep together only one time. Someone is going to want more. And I should be honest. That person will probably be me."

"You like me? I've been so mean to you."

"You've turned me on every single day. Your sassiness does it for me."

She laughed. "Is there something wrong with you?"

He shook his head. "Not that I know of. I enjoy being around you. When you're in the room, no one else exists."

"Typically, it's only you and I in a room."

"And typically, in my mind, I'm imaging pinning you to a wall."

"Then do it."

He groaned and she loved getting that type of reaction out of him. Knowing he was having as hard a time as her controlling himself, made her even more moist.

"We can't."

She leaned forward, placing her lips right by his earlobe. "If we can't have sex, can we at least play?" She placed her hand on his shaft.

He sucked in air and before she had time to think, he shoved her down onto her back and stole her lips. She knew she wasn't being fair to him—again. He'd given her valid reasons why they shouldn't, but she didn't care. She wanted it. Wanted him. And as his hips ground into her, she knew there was no turning back. Whether they went all the way right here on this couch or not, they were about to learn a bit more about one another.

* * *

Jace sat on the brown leather couch. Claire had disappeared back to the kitchen area. He couldn't believe they'd fooled around and if he had wanted, he could've sunk into her warm opening and probably found a slice of heaven. Yet he'd turned her down all because he wanted more than sex. He didn't want to sleep with her only once. He wanted the whole damn shebang.

"God, you're sexy sitting there in only a pair of jeans. I don't think I'm satisfied fully," Claire said as she came back in the room. "I hope cheese puffs are okay. It's all I could find in there that hasn't been opened."

"I don't need anything fresh."

She giggled. "This is food left from my parents. Figured it was best to get something still sealed. My 'fresh' food is back in my cabin."

"Why don't you stay in here? It's gorgeous."

"I plan to. I'm hoping once I make a few changes and get opened up, I can. To be honest, the time I've spent with you is the longest I've been in here since they passed. It's hard to bear, not seeing them in here. I know I have to. I can't exactly run the inn from my tiny cabin."

Jace still had both his parents. He couldn't imagine losing either of them, let alone at the same time. "I'm glad to have assisted you helping you stay in here. I'd be happy to help again."

She popped a cheese puff in her mouth. "I bet you would. But if we take this back to my place, I could make us something to eat after."

"You know food is the way to a man's—" He stopped himself.

"Well, my food isn't gourmet and homemade. More like a boxed meal."

"About that. Tonya didn't actually make me lasagna."

"What do you mean?" she asked.

"She claimed the sub was from her."

Claire's eyes widened. "The one I brought you."

"Yeah, she—"

"Why would she do that?" Claire interrupted.

"I don't—"

"Ah, I know. Silly me. She told me how much she wanted you and I bet it's all in a ploy to seduce you." Claire laughed. "Guess I beat her to it."

"Wait. What? Is this some sort of bet or something?" Anger flooded him.

"No. Don't start getting an ego. I told her she could have you."

Jace wasn't feeling much like going back to Claire's cabin at the moment. And he was glad they hadn't slept together. The feelings he had for her weren't returned. "I should go."

As he stood, she reached out and wrapped a hand around his wrist. "I didn't mean to upset you. It's just when she approached me about it, I didn't think you were interested in me."

"Of course I was. I had the hots for you in high school. But you never noticed me and why would you? You were too busy making sure everyone noticed you." He regretted the last part the moment it left his lips.

Claire released his arm. "It's probably best you go. It seems like we keep going in circles with one another."

He grabbed his shirt off the couch and put it on. He had to agree with her. One moment they were hot and heavy, the next...well, he wasn't quite sure what had happened.

"I'll see you in the morning?" he asked.

"You bet."

He looked at her once more, at her blond hair a mess from fooling around. She was the sexiest woman he'd ever laid eyes on. And yet, she seemed to be just out of reach.

* * *

"So you think you have a lead, but you can't share it?" Claire pushed her way through the glass door, tray of coffee in one hand, cell phone in the other. "I wish you could give me something."

"I know. And as soon as I have anything solid, I'll tell you," Seth said on the other line.

"Hopefully this will all be settled soon and it can be put behind me. I'm itching to get Honeycreek open. Winter is coming and I want to see this place filled up the way it used to be."

"Same here. Say, did you give Mark Thomas a call like I suggested?"

"No, not yet. I've been a little preoccupied. Where does he work again?"

"Country Furniture," Seth said.

"I might need to stop by there. I want to put in a few new beds."

"He's your man."

She glanced over her shoulder and saw Jace in his office. That was her man—maybe. "I need to go. Work calls."

Seth chuckled. "I still can't believe you're working with Jace. Even more, I'm surprised the people at the tax office haven't started to make a stink."

"It isn't illegal. Besides, Jace has kept the files that have to do with Honeycreek away from my greedy hands. I couldn't look at them if I wanted."

"Smart man."

"Yeah, I guess. Keep me up-to-date."

"Will do. See ya." Seth disconnected the phone call.

Claire set the phone and her purse on the desk. She debated bringing Jace his coffee, but decided to wait. Typically she always felt confident around a man, but there was something about Jace that threw her off her game.

She had to admit she was an attractive girl. She grew up doing pageants and in return had gotten full of herself. She'd yet to have a real solid relationship because she always knew she could get someone else whenever things went sour. But when she lost her parents, her thinking changed. She realized how shallow a person she was. And that wasn't who she wanted to be. Life wasn't about being the beauty queen. That didn't get anyone far—unless you were Miss. America.

And Jace brought on a whole new set of feelings she'd never experienced before. The way he looked at her made her feel something she couldn't describe. She couldn't pinpoint how he made her feel, but being in the same room or even within a distance of him put her stomach in knots. Was this love? Was it possible for it to happen so fast?

She took a seat at her desk and decided to get started on the tasks she needed to do that day. She'd made a few notes the day before on things Tonya could do, but since they'd closed down early, she'd go ahead and do the work.

"Hey," Jace said.

"Coffee." She pointed.

"Thanks. I've got to be at the courthouse today. Can you handle everything until Tonya comes in?"

"You're leaving?"

"I am a lawyer and I'm due in court." He set a key on her desk. "If you need to leave for whatever reason, this goes to the front door only."

"All right. I'll see you later, I guess."

He nodded and grabbed his coffee. At the front door he turned back toward her. "Want to get dinner tonight? I feel like I owe you."

"You don't owe me."

"I'd still like to take you out," he insisted.

"Sure."

He grinned. "I'll pick you up." And he was out the door.

Claire took a long drink of coffee as she watched him walk out the door. She sighed knowing the morning was going to be long and boring. She'd have her work done in no time and then perhaps a few interesting phone calls would come in to pass the time.

By the time one o'clock rolled around, Claire was ready to get the heck out of that place. If she knew Tonya had a key, she would've taken off an hour before.

Finally, the perky girl came in, carrying an oversized lunch box. Today she wore a tight dress that hugged her body like a glove. Her light hair was curled tightly and she had a slight Marilyn Monroe look to her.

"Good afternoon." Tonya eyed Jace's door.

"He's out for the day. He's in court, I guess."

Tonya stuck her bottom lip out. "Shucks. I brought him lunch. Today I made homemade chili."

"You mean you actually made something? You didn't just claim to." Tonya glared at her and Claire did her best to keep a straight face. "You know, if you're interested in Jace, honesty is key."

"I didn't think he'd find out," Tonya said very matter of factly.

"He might not have if he hadn't spent the afternoon with me yesterday." Claire knew adding that last part was the kicker, but she needed to put this girl in her place. She wasn't happy that she'd pretended she'd brought the sub and lied about the lasagna.

"What do you mean Jace was with you? He closed early."

"He did. And he came out to Honeycreek and we spent the afternoon together. He's also taking me to dinner tonight."

Tonya looked as though she might actually turn red. "You told me you weren't interested."

Claire stood and started to gather her things. After she placed her purse on her shoulder, she said, "Things change, I guess."

"I guess so." Tonya spun around on her heeled foot and went back out the door she'd come in.

Claire followed her and hollered, "Where are you going? It's your shift."

"I quit!" She kept walking.

Claire moaned. She really should've kept her mouth shut. Now she had several more hours of boredom ahead of her. One day she'd learn, "If you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all".

* * *

Jace parked his car in front of Claire's cabin. As he climbed out, he glanced toward the inn. He couldn't wait to see this place open again. Even though he grew up in Brookfield, he'd spent a lot of time here. His dad loved hunting and the wooded area behind Honeycreek was perfect.

As he was about to knock on her cabin door, he heard the sound of rocks crunching. Looking over his shoulder, he saw her pulling up. She was still dressed in what she'd worn to work today. And as she made her way in his direction, she didn't look happy.

"I need your cell number for the future." Her tone was full of irritation.

"What happened?"

"Tonya quit."

"She what? Why?"

Claire unlocked the door and he followed her in. Claire stopped so suddenly that he bumped into her.

"Sorry," he said but then froze himself. "What the hell happened?"

He gently pushed Claire forward so he could get a better look. Someone had been by and torn her place apart.

"Who would do this?" he asked.

Claire spun around and glared at him. "Whoever wants my property. I was angry before, but now I'm pissed." She pulled her phone from her pocket and he had a pretty good idea that she was calling Seth.

Chapter Six

"Nothing missing. That's a plus." Claire plopped down on her couch.

Seth and Jace joined her. The police had come, taken pictures, dusted for fingerprints. And like usual, as soon as they knew anything, they'd get back in touch with her. It didn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that whoever wanted her property was behind this. But what were they looking for? Or was it just a plot to scare her?

"I can't believe someone would do this," Jace said.

"Don't worry, we'll find this person on top of whoever is after your property," Seth reassured her.

"It's the same person," Claire snapped and tossed her hair behind her shoulders. "This is Brookfield, for heaven sakes. Crime is low. I doubt that I have more than one enemy."

"I'd have to agree," Seth said.

"Well, you aren't staying here tonight," Jace chimed in.

Claire huffed. "Yeah, and where the hell would I stay?"

"With me," Jace said.

"You've got to be kidding."

Seth chuckled as he stood. "I'll let you two fight this out. Before I go, is there anyone else you can think of that might have done this? I know we should focus on this as a whole. But did you piss anyone off recently?"

"Tonya Wilkins. I kinda couldn't keep my mouth shut and made her mad, causing her to quit today."

"I'll add her name to the list of people to talk to." Seth wrote on a small pad and then placed it back in his pocket.

That would really piss Tonya off. "Good, because the more I think about it, if she can lie so easily, she might be behind all of this."

Jace was the one laughing now. "She's barely twenty. What the heck would she want with Honeycreek?"

"You never know." Claire crossed her arms.

"Well, if you think of anything else, let me know, Claire. I'll see you around, Jace." Seth grabbed his jacket from the back of the chair and left.

Claire slumped farther into the sofa. Maybe it was silly to think Tonya had anything to do with this, but one should never underestimate a scorned woman. And Tonya hadn't been happy to learn about Claire's time with Jace. It was possible that Tonya came over here.

Then again, Tonya had no idea that Claire was staying in the cabin. The police had checked out the inn and other cabins. Untouched.

"Want to pack a bag?" Jace asked.

"You're kidding, right?"

"No, I'm not. You can't stay here."

"I'm not getting chased from my home," she argued.

"Then I'm staying here because you're not spending the night here otherwise."

"Fine." Claire stood and started to put her place back together. "You better put the whole couch back together, because that's where you'll be sleeping."

He snickered, but didn't say anything.

An hour later, she was thankful her place was tiny. It wasn't back the way she wanted, but much better than before. Jace had helped the entire time, but hadn't pushed her to talk. She liked that he understood her need to think.

She grabbed an extra set of sheets and pillows from the linen closet and tossed them onto the couch.

"You got anything to eat, or can I still take you out?" he asked.

Claire glanced around. "I'm up for going out."

"Good, because I need to stuff my stomach before I can sleep on that couch."

She laughed. "Let's go."

"I'll drive." He opened the front door and held his arm out to her.

* * *

"So, are you mad at me for Tonya quitting?" Claire asked and took a bite of a meatball.

"No. I would've had to fight her off all the time with a stick." Jace picked up a piece of garlic bread.

"She was very interested. I'm surprised you weren't."

"I've got my eyes on someone else." He gazed at her.

Her cheeks flushed, and for once she was silent. Something he didn't think he'd ever seen.

"I never asked, but I assume the answer is no. Are you seeing anyone?" he asked before taking a bite of the bread.

"Let's hope not, since we got hot and heavy the other day."

"Good. I was worried a jealous boyfriend might hunt me down."

She twirled more spaghetti around her fork. "I've never been good with relationships."

"How come?"

She set her fork down and pushed her hair behind her ears. "I never cared to in the past."

"But..."

"No but."

"Sounded like you were about to say one." He had hoped at least she was about to tell him she wanted a relationship in her future. The very near future.

She took another bite of her spaghetti. "I don't know if I'm ready. I wouldn't mind having a little fun though."

"And I won't settle for just fun."

She grinned. "You're not like most men, are you?"

"I wouldn't say that. But to you, I don't want to be like most men. I want to be your man."

Claire stared at him for a moment, then picked up her drink and turned her head to look around the restaurant.

Jace loved Luigi's. It was the best Italian he'd had in his life. He traveled a bit a few years ago, and no one's marinara sauce could touch Luigi's. He often thought this was Brookfield's best-kept secret. Then again, so many of the small shops here were superior to any place he'd been. Perhaps it was Brookfield that was the secret.

"Thank you for bringing me to dinner. Before all of this happened, I was really excited about it," she said.

"Oh yeah?"He raised an eyebrow.

"Yes. It isn't that I don't like you. I'm just not looking for anything serious right now. You have to understand, I have a lot of drama at the moment. And once it gets settled, all my attention will be on getting Honeycreek up and running. It wouldn't be fair to you."

"Why don't you let me decide that?"

"Jace."

"I'm a lawyer. It might be for this small town, but I have weeks where I work into the night. Yet I think you're special enough to try with."

"You barely know me."

"But from the moment you entered my life, it's felt complete." Reaching forward, Jace took her hand that sat on the table. "It's why I can't settle for fun. You deserve something real, not part time."

She pulled her hand away. "I need a to-go container. What about you?"

Jace chuckled. "This is the first time I didn't finish my meal here."

Once their food was packaged and paid for, they headed out front. The air was cool and the sun had set. The streetlights were on, but the town was mostly dead.

"Want to go for a little stroll?" he asked, offering his arm.

Claire gave him a stern look before intertwining her arm with his. They walked at a slow pace and neither of them spoke. A few of the shops, such as The Cookie Jar and The Roasted Cup, still had OPEN signs lit up. But other than that, everything was closed.

They stopped in front of The Reading Corner. The lights were dimmed. Jace had met the store owner Alyssa Duncan a time or two, but he mainly knew her brother Cody, who was typically at Seth's side when on the job.

They turned and started to head back up the street. They stopped at the crosswalk by Queens Ave. That road was currently the deadest road in the town. The local church was at the end, and on Sunday's the road was like a parking lot.

"Nothing has changed much," Claire said.

"Nope. It seems to always stay the same here in Brookfield, Wyoming."

"That's good. I like that about this place. It's the perfect place to raise a family."

Her saying those words tugged at Jace's heart. He was so attracted to her, not only physically, but emotionally.

"I guess we should be getting back." He led them back toward his car.

"Jace," she said as they got there.

"Yeah."

"Do you really have no idea who would be after Honeycreek? You've been around here and I've been gone. No rumors or anything?"

Jace sighed. "I wish I had some sort of idea, but I don't. Whoever did this kept their mouth shut. This town is small. It shocks me to not have an idea."

* * *

Claire unlocked the door to the cabin. She wasn't tired. Not. One. Bit. Her body was on fire after that walk with Jace. Touching him and being so close. It had taken everything in her not to kiss him when they'd gotten back to his car. When she'd first said his name, she was certain she would. But something stopped her. Oh right, she'd chickened out.

She glanced at the couch. The place he'd be sleeping. She'd be in her room, wishing she was out here with him. She eyed him as removed his jacket. His hair was a mess from the slight wind tonight. But damn, he was sexy. She wanted to run her fingers through it as she explored him.

"You really don't have to stay here," she said.

"You're not getting rid of me. I'm staying." Jace sat down on the couch. "The only way I'll leave is if you come back to my place."

"Oh yeah. I don't feel much like sleeping on a couch."

"You wouldn't. You'd be in my bed."

"Would you be in it too?" Crap! Did I just say that out load?

Jace stood and walked toward her. His eyes were dark with passion and she knew at that moment he was feeling the same desires she was. Only he'd been honest all night about how he felt. The feelings she had for him scared the shit out of her.

She backed up, but he kept getting closer. Finally she bumped into the wall behind her. She stared into his eyes.

"Do you want to be in my bed with me?" he asked.

Her breathing was heavy. She willed her mouth to tell him no, but her head betrayed her as it began to nod.

Jace smiled and leaned closer, placing his hands on either side of her head. She could smell his aftershave and goodness, it was the best scent.

"We can't keep playing these games," he whispered, sending a chill down her spine. "I told you how I felt at dinner."

"You did. And I told you how I felt."

"That you did."

Jace growled and pushed away from the wall. He headed back in the direction of the couch.

Claire took in a deep breath and missed having him so close. Why did this have to be so hard? Or was it? She could give in and admit to herself she'd love to see where things could go with Jace.

"Jace," she called.

He spun back around, but didn't say anything.

"I want you to be that man."

"What man?"

"The man who's going to give me more than just fun."

It took him no time to make his way back to her. She gripped his shoulders and wrapped her legs around his waist. He carried her toward her bedroom and softly laid her on the bed.

"You're not just saying that to get me in bed, are you?" Jace asked.

Claire giggled. "No, I meant what I said."

Jace claimed her lips and the fireworks went off behind her eyelids. She knotted her fingers in his hair the way she'd wanted to earlier. He explored her body, sending every nerve in her on end. Being with Jace was going to be magical and she couldn't wait to go to those heights with him.

Needing more, she started to tug at his shirt, pulling it over his head before tossing it across her room. She caressed his chest, amazed at the definition he had. Slowly, she started a trail down to his belly button with her fingers, and as she dipped lower, his hand grabbed hers.

"Not so fast. I'm trying to get myself under control. One touch and this will all be over."

"Hell, no." She grinned. "We're just getting started."

Claire reached down and tugged her shirt off. Jace stared at her breasts, moaned, and began to let his tongue explore. She wrapped her legs around him again, bringing his still-clothed bottom half right to her center. His erection pressed into her and she knew at that moment taking this slow wasn't going to happen. The sooner she got him inside her, the better.

"Let's not play," she whispered. "Take me right now, anyway you want."

Jace pulled back, staring down at her. "Where have you been all my life?"

"Right here."

It took no time to get naked. Jace tugged Claire to the end of the bed and grabbed her ankles, laying them on his shoulders. As soon as he sunk deep within, she closed her eyes, knowing there would never be another man for her in her life.

Chapter Seven

Jace wished like hell when he woke the next morning that it was Saturday. He wanted to stay in this warm bed with Claire all morning, and perhaps have a repeat of the night before. But it wasn't Saturday and after being in court the day before, he had things that he had to get done.

Rolling over, he stared down at Claire. Her blond hair fell in her face. He pushed it away so he could get a glimpse of her sleeping. She began to stir before opening her eyes and gazing at him.

"Good morning," she quietly said.

"A good morning it is." He kissed her cheek. "It would be even better if I didn't need to get into the office."

"Can't you take the day off?"

"I was just trying to figure that out in my head. Unfortunately, I didn't come up with anything."

"I can make coffee while you shower."

"I really should head back home. We didn't think this through. I don't have clean clothes."

"You look much better out of them anyway." She kissed his chin.

Jace groaned and told himself he needed to get up. But his body had other ideas. Pushing Claire onto her back, he nudged her thighs open and gave her a proper wake-up.

* * *

Claire sat at her small kitchen table, sipping coffee and playing on her laptop. Jace told her to come in late if she wanted, and she was taking advantage of having a lazy morning. Setting her mug down, she stared at the screen, not really sure what she was looking at.

This morning she had waves of emotions going through her. Being in the same room with Jace made her feel at ease, and when they'd connected, it actually felt like they'd become one. Even thinking that felt a bit cliché, but there was no other way to describe it. Claire had never been a saint and made men wait long to hop in the sack. She enjoyed sex and wasn't ashamed of it. In her mind, the sooner they slept together, the sooner they knew how compatible they were. And her and Jace, well, they were made for one another.

The way he looked at her got her every time. Her stomach fluttered and her heart went pit-pat. Her usually catty banter often turned into her with a loss of words. This was new for her. No man had ever made her lose a train of thought—until Jace.

Leaving the kitchen, she went into her room. From under her bed, she dug out her high school yearbook and found a year they both would've been in school. He remembered her, but she had trouble recalling who he was. The town wasn't big and the classes were small. There was no reason she shouldn't know him.

Scrolling through the pictures of the senior class, her finger stopped. It was him. Only a different name. Jackson Brown. She stared at the photo, realizing Jace must be a nickname. But as she studied him, she remembered who he was and couldn't believe she hadn't put it together.

The girls in her class all had a crush on him. He was smart and quiet. He didn't run with the in crowd. But had an unforgettable face. And he'd played baseball. Man, could he wear those gray pants better than any other man. Much like the way he wore a suit. Hot.

She skimmed a few more pages of the senior class. He didn't appear in too many of the photos, but she wasn't surprised. At least in the time she went to school, you had to be somebody for the yearbook committee to fill the pages with your face.

She closed the book and decided to begin getting ready for the day. With Tonya gone, she wasn't sure what her new hours were going to be. Hopefully Seth would have news soon, and she could put all her time and effort into Honeycreek.

An hour later, she was dressed and ready to go. As she gathered her things, she heard someone knock on her cabin door. She peeked through the peephole and saw Seth.

Opening the door, she greeted him, "Hey."

"Got a minute?"

"For you, anytime."

He grinned and came inside. "Coffee?"

"I think there is a cup or two left. Just turned it off because I was heading out."

He poured himself a cup and then took a big gulp before leaning against the counter. "I've got a pretty good idea at the moment."

"You do? Is it Mr. Jenkins?"

"That would be simple. The tax assessor. No."

"Who?"

"When you went down there, you said you weren't treated with the best service, correct?"

"God, no. That Mrs. Moore was not the nicest lady. In fact, I'm beginning to wonder if she even passed my message on. Mr. Jenkins never called me, unless of course he couldn't because of this mess."

"He could've called you, but you're on to something," Seth said.

"Mrs. Moore?"

Seth nodded. "We've been asking around and it turns out, she approached your parents a few years ago about buying Honeycreek. About the time they started to close for the winter. Of course, your parents told her no. And it wasn't long after that, that it appeared they'd stopped paying their taxes. Though the case was never sent over to Jace until after they passed away."

Claire sat down at the kitchen table and rubbed her temple. "Where has the money I've been paying gone? It came out of the bank account and the checks were made out to the tax office."

"She cashed them since she worked there, we assume."

Claire almost couldn't believe it. "Has she been arrested?"

"People get funny when they know they've done wrong." She didn't like the tone in his voice. "Seems she's gone missing. Taken a vacation of sorts suddenly."

"You're kidding. Is there anyone who might know where she is?"

"I've got two officers questioning her granddaughter right now. And I've got a feeling the granddaughter is who trashed your place. Her fingerprints were everywhere."

"Who is the granddaughter?"

"Tonya Wilkins."

Did he just say Tonya? "Tonya...the same Tonya?"

"Yup. It's a small town."

"You're not kidding about that." She sighed. "What can I do to help?"

"I'd like for you to let us keep a police officer on the property. Tonya could come back."

"I can handle her. I did once."

"So far there haven't been any homicides since I became sheriff. I'd like to keep it that way," Seth said.

"You're being silly." Tonya and her grandmother might want her land, but they weren't going to kill her for it. "Jace stayed here last night. He probably wouldn't mind the couch again tonight."

Seth raised an eyebrow at her and then in the direction of the couch. Crap. She was certain the pillow and blanket she'd given Jace still sat there, neatly folded. "So, uh, you two together?"

She grinned. Seth was like a brother to her. They'd always been close, but never anything more. Claire had been an only child and Seth's family had treated her as their own. Heck, she fought with him and his sister Kimberly like they were siblings.

"You really want the details?"

"I didn't ask for details. Just want to know if you're seeing him. Last I heard, you disliked the man."

Claire shrugged. "I no longer dislike him."

"Might this be someone you'll finally settle down with?"

"Thought you didn't want the details?"

Seth chuckled. "I like Jace, always have since school. He wears his heart on his sleeve though, and I don't want you doing a number on him."

"Don't worry. I'm not going to break his heart. I think there might be a future for us."

Seth nodded. "I'm gonna head out and check with Cody to see if he had any luck tracking Tonya down. If you see her, let me know. I have a feeling she's going to play the disappearing act as well."

After Seth was gone, Claire made sure all her windows were locked. She didn't think anyone would break in again, but she couldn't be certain. At least Seth and his guys were on the right track.

Once she was in the main area of Brookfield, she parked her car and headed over to The Roasted Cup to get her usual coffee order for the day. She was sure Jace needed a caffeine pick-up.

As she waited on her coffee, she noticed a man sitting off to the side. The back of his shirt had the Country Furniture logo. She didn't recognize him, but figured he might be the one Seth had been telling her about.

"Excuse me, are you Mark Thomas?" she asked.

"I am." He looked up at her and she saw a very attractive man.

"I'm Claire Stevens. I own Honeycreek. I'm going to be doing some remodels and Seth Hampton recommended I get in contact with you. He says your work is great."

"That's nice of him. What are you looking to have done?"

She pointed at the vacant seat and he nodded. She sat down. "I really want to redo the beds in the inn to be made from old trees. Right now they are metal frames, but I want it to have that woodsy feel. Do you know what I'm talking about?"

He nodded. He wasn't the most talkative man, but Claire could look past that.

"Is it something you'd be interested in?"

"Yeah. I can do that. What's your timeframe?"

"The rooms are all fine the way they are now, but one by one, I want to redo them. So really, it's about money and your time."

Mark smiled. "I hear you. Why don't I get some estimates on price and get back with you?"

"That's great. Do you have a business card, or where are you staying?"

Mark reached behind his back and returned with his wallet in hand. He then placed a business card in front of her. "When you're ready, give me a call."

"Claire Stevens," a woman behind the counter called.

"Oh, that's me. Thank you again! It was nice to meet you, Mark." She pushed the chair back and then went to get her coffee.

With the tray of coffee in her hand, she left The Roasted Cup and crossed the street to Jace's law office. She pushed the glass door open and was greeted by Jace right away. He wrapped his arms around her waist, bringing his mouth to hers. She held the tray to her side, trying to not spill it.

When Jace ended the kiss, he took the tray from her. "I missed you."

"It hasn't been that long since we saw each other."

"It was long enough."

"I suppose you're right, Jackson."

Jace handed a coffee to her. "Ah, you must've looked me up."

"Oh yeah, and just so you know, I thought you were hot."

"Oh yeah. I doubt you even knew who I was."

"That's where you're wrong. I did. And I had a crush on you. You were the smart guy and you wore those gray baseball pants as though they were a second skin on you."

Jace placed a hand on her waist again. "You drive me insane, Claire. I'm ready to take you again."

She pressed herself against him, not caring this time if she dropped her coffee. "We could always lock the door and go into your office."

"I like you're thinking." Jace pulled away.

Claire set her coffee down and as she turned back toward Jace, she saw Tonya on the other side of the glass door.

"Lock the door," she said.

Before he could, Tonya opened it with a jerk. "Don't you two look rather cozy."

"I thought you quit," Jace said.

Claire picked the phone up off her desk and dialed 9-1-1. Into the phone she said, "Send Seth Hampton to Brown's Law Agency. His suspect is here."

"Suspect?" Jace stared at her.

"Yes, she's the one who broke into my house. She's also Mrs. Moore's granddaughter. Mrs. Moore is behind this property scandal."

Chapter Eight

"Let me explain," Tonya said.

"What could you possibly have to explain?" Claire placed her hands on her hips. "You broke into my place. Your prints were everywhere. Don't tell me you're trying to deny it now."

"I'm not, it's just—"

"Save it for the sheriff." Claire held her hand up.

Tonya slumped against the wall. "I don't have to stay here. I can walk out this door."

"Go ahead. I'm not going to stop you."

Jace took Claire's hand. "You're welcome to go."

Tonya huffed and then stood straight. She turned quickly and began to push the door open, but several officers stood on the other side. "Crap."

Claire smiled, not being able to help it. A few seconds later, the police were inside and Tonya started to cry. In some ways, Claire felt bad for the girl. She was young and she wondered if she really knew what she'd done, or if the grandmother had put her up to it. In all honestly, she might have suspected the girl to trash her house out of jealousy, but chances were Tonya could care less about Honeycreek.

The officers were talking to her and Tonya kept telling them she didn't know where Mrs. Moore was. Seth walked over to Claire and Jace.

"We're going to go ahead and take Tonya into the station. I assume you still want to press charges?"

Claire nodded. "Of course."

"As soon as I have information, I'll call."

"Sounds good," Claire said, relieved that this was all finally starting to piece together.

After the police left, Jace wrapped his arms around Claire. She placed her cheek across his chest and savored the smell of his musky aftershave.

"Now that this is all over, guess I need to start the hiring process again."

Claire pulled back and stared up at him. "It was only temporary. You already knew that."

Jace took her hands in his. "I can handle you working here being temporary, as long as you and I aren't."

She smiled. "It's not. You're stuck with me."

He captured her lips and Claire remembered the desk scene she'd been playing out in her head earlier. Breaking the kiss, she went to the front door and locked it.

"It's time to begin what we were going to start earlier."

With a giggle, she took his hand and led him to his office. His desk was neat and tidy. Peeking at him over her shoulder, she winked, and then turned her attention back to his desk. She took pleasure in pushing a stack of papers off the floor.

"Wait, you're going to make a mess."

"Ssh." She placed a finger to her lips and with the other hand removed her shoes.

Claire then proceeded to push the pencil holder off. With a sultry smile spread across her gorgeous face, she removed her shirt. Jace watched quietly because with each object that landed on the floor, so did an article of her clothing. Once she was down to only her panties, she walked around his desk, closed the laptop, and gently laid it on the floor. Reaching behind herself, she unclasped her bra. She climbed on top of the desk on all fours and motioned him her way.

"I've never had a hotter strip tease before," he said, his tone husky.

Claire sat on her knees as she began to work the buttons on his shirt. Not being able to resist herself, she explored his neck with her tongue. Once his shirt was unbuttoned, she sat back to admire his toned chest. She tugged at his shirt until it fell to the ground. God, this man was hot and all hers.

Claiming his lips, she let one hand wander down until she wrapped it around the bulge in his pants.

"Oh God, I think you're torturing me," he groaned.

"It's the good kind, at least."

She took no time after that stripping him of his pants and boxers. His hands explored her and when his fingers dipped into her center, her eyes closed and she moaned. He entered her, bringing her pleasure to a new level. She needed him now, good and hard.

"I hope you've got a condom."

"I do." He removed his fingers from her, and bent down to get his wallet from his pants.

A moment later, he was protected, had her ass on the edge of the desk, her legs wrapped around his waist, and her back arched as he slid into home plate.

Chapter Nine

"Jace." Claire poked her head into the spare bedroom he was currently using as a second office at Honeycreek. "I just got a text from Seth. They need me down at the station. You okay to stay here? I think Mark is supposed to be coming by to do measurements."

"I'm fine." His eyes never left the computer screen.

"By the way, where is he living? I always see him going toward the outskirts of town."

"He's staying in the Miller residence."

"Ah. Makes sense with Mrs. Miller out traveling the country. Which reminds me, I need to give Julie a call and see how life is treating her in New York City." She planted a kiss on his cheek. "I'll see you soon." And she headed for her car.

Over the last few days, Claire and Jace had fallen into an easy groove with one another. At first she worried the relationship wouldn't work well with her dedicating her life to getting the inn back up and running, but then Jace had a great idea. He was going to set up a second office for now in one of the spare bedrooms. She could work on the things she needed and help him all at the same time, until he was able to hire just the right person.

She'd even convinced him to bring spare clothes. Most of the time they ended up back at her cabin for the night.

She knew though that she needed to begin moving into a room in the inn. When it opened, she needed to be in the main building. For now she'd be doing the cooking and possibly the cleaning until she could hire an onsite housekeeper.

Claire parked her car outside the Brookfield police station. As she entered the small station, she saw Seth wave his hands in her direction. She made her way to his office and had a seat.

"So, you got news?"

"I do."

"Tell me you tracked down Mrs. Moore."

Seth smiled. "Of course. I've got statements from her and Tonya as well." He leaned back in his chair. "Thankfully it isn't too complicated of a story. Mrs. Moore went to your parents to buy it and they turned her down. But from what I gather, they'd been feuding for several years. A few times your parents led to her to believe that they were going to sell it to her. Obviously it's a shame we can't get their side of the story. But what Mrs. Moore didn't know was that you had taken over the accounting for the place. Tonya had broken into your cabin to find your proof it had been paid."

Claire shook her head. "I kept it with me. Even if I hadn't, you had copies."

"Who knows. Mrs. Moore figured it would be easy to acquire the land after your parents passed."

"Then she never met me." Claire grinned. "Anyway, what about the money? She stole it. So the taxes actually haven't been paid. What's going to happen?"

"This is going to have to go to court. Know a good lawyer?"

"Yeah, but he represents them."

"As far as I know, he works with the tax assessor office, not Mrs. Moore and Tonya."

"I hope I can afford his fees," Claire said jokingly.

"I'm sure you'll get a discount." Seth rubbed his temple. "I'm glad to see things working out for you, Claire. I'm happy for you."

"Me too. And I'm sure you'll find your perfect match before long."

"There isn't anyone in Brookfield for me."

"Then perhaps someone new will move in and steal your heart."

He raised an eyebrow. "No one wants to move here."

"Hey. Don't be so down about this place," Claire said.

"I'm not. I love it here."

"All right. If you don't need anything else from me, then I have an attorney I need to speak too."

"I bet you do. But the good news is you can get the ball rolling on getting Honeycreek open. I know Mr. Jenkins, and I'm sure your tax issues have been cleared up."

"Thank you for your help."

"Not a problem."

Claire stood and gave a little wave to Seth before leaving the station.

* * *

Jace stood in the bedroom that would be Claire's when she moved into the main building. He walked around, taking in all of the Stevens' things, and realized how emotional this would be for Claire. It would mean she'd have to pack everything up and decided what to do with it from there.

He wanted to help her in some way. If he got the ball rolling, maybe she could begin the process. The first thing that would have to go was obvious—the bed. Maybe once Mark finished up in the other room; he could give Jace some ideas. They could keep her parents' bedroom furniture, just new bed mattress and frame. Perhaps a fresh coat of paint.

On her mother's dresser he noticed a photo of Claire. It was from senior prom. She was decked out in a bright purple dress with sequins galore. He chuckled. Why was it years after these events, one realizes how crazy they were dressed, yet at the time, they looked hot? He set the frame back down.

"I'm done. Where you want me to leave these quotes?" Mark asked from the doorway.

"I'll take them. Before you go. Any ideas for a fresh look in this room?"

"This her parents' room?"

Jace nodded. "I want to help her move forward and thought you might be able to help."

Mark raked his hands through his hair. "You want the truth? Leave it alone. Everyone grieves differently and moves on when they're ready. You can't force it."

"I understand. But I thought I could help her."

Mark cleared his throat. "What were you thinking?"

"Keep the furniture. But a new bed frame at least. One that will match the furniture."

"I can do that. But I won't do anything until Claire wants it."

Jace felt irritated. What right did this man have to tell him to wait until Claire was ready? He just wanted his opinion. "All right. I'll give these to Claire." He held the papers up. "I'm sure she'll be in touch soon."

Mark nodded and left. Jace stayed in the room, wondering how Claire would feel about the changes he was considering. Surely she didn't want to stay in the cabin when the place opened.

He sat down on the bed. He'd been getting to know Claire more and more each day. And each day he was falling even more hopelessly in love with her. They hadn't yet said the words to one another, but he was dying to tell her. Some might think he was crazy for knowing so soon that this was the woman he wanted to spend his life with. A part of him was still scared that Claire was just having fun with him.

Jace stood up and began to walk out of the bedroom when Claire appeared in the doorway.

"What are you doing in here?"

"I asked Mark to look around and give me some ideas."

"For?" Her tone held a slight irritation to it.

"I wanted to see if he could make something to match up with the furniture already in there."

Claire didn't say anything. Instead, she brushed past him and stood in the room. She was still at first, but then began to tiptoe around, picking up random things and setting them down. Her hands ran along the mattress and when she turned back to him, tears trickled down her cheeks.

"I'm sorry I overstepped," he immediately said.

"No. I was thinking earlier actually about moving into the inn. Sleeping in here..."

"Maybe you could move into another room."

She grinned and shook her head. "I could never use this as a guest room. It wouldn't feel right." She sat down on the bed and patted the spot next to her. "Sit. Tell me what your thoughts were."

Jace sat and she took his hand. "I thought we...I mean you could keep the main furniture. A fresh coat of paint. New decorations, of course. Bed and mattresses. I asked Mark if he could make a new headboard and footboard to go with the furniture already in here. Since it was my idea, I'll handle the expense."

She squeezed his hand. "I'm not worried about that. I'm worried about sleeping in here and how it would feel."

Jace knew that would be weird. Anytime he walked into his parents' bedroom, it was odd. It was one of those rooms that kids pretended didn't exist because they sure as heck didn't want to know what might be going on in there.

"Jace," she said softly.

"Yes."

"When the room is ready, will you do me a favor?"

"Anything."

"Spend the night with me. I can't do this alone. I need you."

The last words she said pulled at the strings on his heart. "I'll do anything for you."

Claire slightly giggled. "I'd kiss you, but that'd be a little awkward on my parents' bed."

He snickered. "I'd have to agree."

Claire stood and led him out of her parents' room. As they made their way to the front door of the inn, he knew exactly where they were going.

"Wait," he said.

They stopped and Claire spun around. "Tell me you aren't about to put the brakes on this."

"I'm not. But I need to be honest with you."

She stared at him, waiting.

"I love you," he said it so fast he wasn't sure he actually spoke it.

"You do?"

Jace nodded. "You think I'm crazy, don't you? But I need you to know how real this is for me."

Claire wrapped her arms around his waist. "That's good. Because I've been trying to fight these feelings as well, but I can't. I love you too."

"Oh God, that's music to my ears."

"Now, let's go express the love in another way."

Jace scooped Claire up in his arms and practically ran out of Honeycreek to her cabin.

Chapter Ten

A few weeks later

Claire stood in the foyer of Honeycreek, not able to believe that in just a few days they'd be opening. And even more perfect, a fresh layer of snow had fallen and the weatherman was predicting a few more inches by the weekend.

"Hot chocolate," Jace said from behind her.

"Ooo, thank you. A nice treat, you bringing me something."

He grinned. "You won my heart with coffee each morning."

"I'd like to think I won it other ways."

"It's yours. I don't ever want it back."

Claire spun around, planting a light kiss on his lips. "I love you."

"I love you. In fact, I have something else for you."

"You do?"

"It's in my suit pocket. Could you get it?"

She set the hot chocolate down on the table near her and reached into his jacket, pulling out a small black box. "Oh my!" she gasped. "Is this...?"

As she stared at him, he took her hand. "Claire Stevens, I don't want to go through life without you. So far our relationship has progressed fast, and I'd like to keep up with the pace. Would you do me the honor of being my wife?"

"Yes!" She embraced him, not giving him time to even put the ring on.

Once she finally let go, he slid the most beautiful diamond ring she'd ever seen on her finger. It was a princess-cut diamond with several small diamonds nestled on each side.

Just as he tilted her head back to kiss her, a knock sounded on the front door.

"Perfect timing." She giggled.

"Not for me," he mumbled.

Claire went over and opened the door. A couple she vaguely recognized stood there. "Hi, can I help you?"

"Wow, you've grown up, Claire. I'm sure you don't remember us. We used to stay here every winter and loved it. When your parents closed in the winters, we were so sad, but even more saddened to hear of their loss. We heard Honeycreek was reopening. We want to book a weekend as soon as possible," the older woman said.

"Wow. That is great. Come on inside out of the cold and we'll get you all booked." Claire was ecstatic to have someone who wanted to stay there.

As she went over the details with Mr. and Mrs. Adams, she stole a few glances at Jace, who sat beside her, holding her hand under the table. This man gave her all the courage she needed. With him by her side, she could tackle anything.

The End

About Lacey Wolfe

Lacey Wolfe has always had a passion for words, whether it's getting lost in a book or writing her own. From the time she was a child she would slip away to write short stories about people she knew and fantasies she wished would happen. It has always been her dream to be a published author and with her two children now of school age, she finally has the time to work on making her dream come true.

Lacey lives in Georgia with her husband, son and daughter, their six cats and one black lab who rules the house.

www.laceywolfe.com

Email Lacey Wolfe: LaceyWolfe@live.com

Contemporary Romances

Brookfield Series

Finding Home (Continue reading for a preview)

Bare Necessities

The Brookfield Series – Volume 1 (Includes Finding Home and Bare Necessities)

Not Just Friends

Love Strikes Trilogy

Bidding Wars – Coming May 17

Erotic Romance Books

Amber's Muse

Tempting The Manny

Bound By Pleasure

The Naked Truth

Sarah's Chase

Letting Go

Hot Bods Series

Fool Me Once

More Than Useful

Accidental Love

Opposites Attract

Free Stories

Sarah's Chase

At the Beach – Volume 1

Holiday Kisses

Finding Home – The story that started the Brookfield Series

Available Now!

Chapter One

Welcome to Brookfield, Wyoming. We hope you enjoy your visit.

Julie Miller rolled her eyes as she passed the sign that welcomed her back to her hometown. It had been a long time since she'd been back. It was one of those places that never changed, and its people would take you back anytime with their arms wide open.

As she drove down Main Street, she took note the town was almost the same. Just a fresh coat of paint on many of the stores. The street lights that lit the darkened streets had all been replaced and now had a more modern look to them.

It was a ghost town though. Then again, what did she expect? It was eleven at night, and this was the small town of Brookfield. Nothing stayed open late. Everyone was probably home, nestled up warm in their beds. She had debated on going straight to her mother's house, but she was coming unannounced. It would be best to arrive in the morning.

At the stop sign, Julie took a right onto Steeple Lane and headed toward Honeycreek Bed and Breakfast. She pulled up to the beautiful house. The front porch was lit up. It was as if they knew she was coming. As she shut off the car, she sat a moment to compose herself. Returning here was more difficult than she'd expected. Soon everyone would be asking questions about why she was here and, even if she could avoid answering, they would all be able to see why.

Julie placed her hand on her belly. A tear trickled down her cheek as she remembered.

Pacing back and forth across the bathroom, Julie waited. Deep down she knew what that stick was going to say, but all she could do was pray it wouldn't. As if she even had that control at this point. What was done was done, and there was no changing it.

The timer on her cell phone went off. Biting her bottom lip, she turned toward the test. It was time to find out if what she feared was true. She had laid the box over the stick, and she now had to remove it to see if it would confirm her fear. As her arms shook, she pushed the box aside and stared down at the results.

"Shit," she said. "I'm pregnant."

Well, she had no other choice now. She was over three months late, and she had to tell Jeremy. She was scared to tell him. They'd never discussed children. Things were getting serious between them. She had just recently moved into his apartment since she was here all the time anyway.

She found him in the living room like usual.

"Jeremy," Julie said softly, feeling a lump in her throat.

"Huh?" he responded.

"We need to talk."

"Right now?"

"It's important," she said, starting to feel frustrated.

"Fine. What?" he snapped and then muted the TV. He turned toward her in his recliner.

She took a deep breath and blurted out, "I'm pregnant."

"You're what?" His voice was loud now.

"Please don't make me say it again."

"This is just great! I move you in here, and you get yourself knocked up." He shook his head, now noticing the test in her hand. "You're going to have to take care of that."

Julie hoped he wasn't asking her to do what she thought he was. "You don't mean..." she said.

"Damn right, I do. I don't want to be a father."

"What if I don't want to do that?"

He pointed toward the door.

"I have to leave?" Julie couldn't believe what was happening.

Jeremy didn't say anything to her. He turned the volume back up on the TV and returned to his show. Julie stood there, dumb-founded. Was this really happening? Not only had her life been turned upside-down by an unexpected pregnancy, but her boyfriend had just told her to have an abortion or leave.

Doing her best to hold it together, Julie went back to the bedroom. She had a decision to make.

And here she was. She had chosen the baby. Jeremy hadn't even given her a second glance as she'd left.

She grabbed her small suitcase from the back of her car and then headed in to check into Honeycreek Bed and Breakfast. As she stepped up the stairs, the front door opened, and Claire Stevens greeted her.

"Julie Miller, is that really you?" Claire said.

"It's me." Julie smiled, hugging the woman in front of her. "What are you doing here?"

"You're looking at the owner."

"I heard the news, and I'm sorry about your loss."

"Thanks." Claire paused a moment, and Julie wondered if the pain was still fresh. "So, tell me, what brings you here?" Claire asked.

"I need a place to crash for the night, so I'm hoping you have a vacancy," Julie said.

"You're in luck. Come on in, and let's get you settled. You must be tired after that long drive from New York."

Julie followed the petite blonde inside. It was warm and felt like a home away from home, which she was sure was just how Claire wanted her guests to feel.

Claire fiddled around behind the desk then came over, dangling a key in front of Julie. "I'll show you to your room."

"Do you need a credit card or something before I check in?" Julie reached into her purse.

"Your night's on me." Claire smiled. "There's a story as to why you're home, and I want to know it."

If only you knew. "Well, thanks. I appreciate it."

Claire opened the door to the room Julie would stay in. Julie glanced around, taking in the beautifully decorated room. The furniture was all made of dark wood. The bed had a gorgeous quilt and tons of pillows. Ah, the pillows. She yawned, ready to snuggle in. The last few days had been long and tiring.

"I can see you're tired. So I won't get the details tonight, but we will play catch-up soon," Claire said.

"Definitely."

"Breakfast in the morning?"

Julie shook her head. "I think I'm going to get up early and head out to Mom's. Looking forward to her cooking."

A mischievous smile crossed Claire's face, and she looked as if she had something to say, but Julie was too tired to figure out what.

"Well, get some rest. Holler if you need anything." Claire shut the door behind her as she left.

Kicking her shoes off, Julie wasted no time getting out of her clothes and climbing into the fluffy bed. Turning off the lamp, she pulled the covers up and nestled in. Without even a second thought, she drifted off and had one of the best nights of sleep she'd had in a long time.

* * *

The sun shined brightly through the windows. She wished now she had noticed the blinds were open last night. Pulling the sheets over her face, she closed her eyes for a few more minutes as she tried to wake up.

Finally, after battling with herself, she climbed out of the bed. She put her jeans back on and then pulled her hair up in a ponytail. A sudden urge to use the restroom took over, and she rushed toward the bathroom. This was something new—no bladder control. She didn't expect to already have to pee so much.

She quickly brushed her teeth then made sure everything was tidy as though she hadn't been there. Grabbing her suitcase, she left the room. She expected to find Claire up front, but she was nowhere to be seen. So she stopped by the front desk and scribbled a note, thanking Claire for the stay and saying they would talk soon. After all, she was going to need someone during this process. As young girls, she and Claire had always gotten along.

Outside, the sun was bright. There was a chill to the air, however. The few clouds in the sky were thick and fluffy. She bet there would be a light snow shower before the day was over. In fact, she was surprised to not see any snow on the ground yet. It would be anytime now.

The drive to her mother's house was short. She lived on the older side of town, and it was unchanged except that the trees had gotten taller.

Julie was excited to see her mom. It had been almost a year since she'd seen her. Julie had flown her out last Christmas to visit her in New York City. She'd taken her mother everywhere, showing her every tourist spot there was to see. Her mother had loved it and said it had always been a dream of hers to travel. Julie hoped one day her mother would get to. Her father had died about ten years ago, and her mother had never remarried. She had a few close friends, though, and maybe one day they would all get together and travel.

But for now, Julie needed her mom. She couldn't wait to have her mother embrace her and hold her tight, telling her it would all work out.

She pulled up to the house. It looked the same. A small ranch-style home painted a light shade of brown. It was time for a fresh coat of paint, that was sure. Perhaps she could get someone out here in the spring to spruce the place up. Her mother's car wasn't in its usual spot but instead pulled over near the picket fence. A pick-up truck sat where the car was usually parked. Maybe something was wrong with the vehicle, and she was borrowing the truck.

Climbing out of the car, Julie could smell bacon. A smiled crossed her face. Her mom was cooking breakfast. Shutting the car door quickly, she went up the front steps two at a time. As she turned the doorknob, she found it locked. Groaning, she dug through her purse until she found the key to the house and let herself in.

Loud music blared through the house. It was set to a local country station. This was so unlike her mother. In fact, as Julie looked around the living room and saw how untidy it was, she wondered if she was in the right house.

Following the smell of food, she stepped into the kitchen. Julie froze. A half-naked man stood at the stove, flipping pancakes. It was as if he sensed he was no longer alone. He turned, and Julie thought she was going to faint.

"Hi," the man said.

"Who the hell are you, and where is my mother?" Julie demanded.

I hope you enjoyed this preview. Finding Home is available in most eBook stores!

