 
#  Best-Laid Plans of Mice and Men

By Earnest Long

Copyright 2017 Earnest Long

Smashwords Edition

Smashwords Edition, License Notes

Thank you for downloading this ebook. This book remains the copyrighted property of the author and may not be redistributed to others for commercial or non-commercial purposes. If you enjoyed this book, please encourage your friends to download their own copy from their favorite authorized retailer. Thank you for your support.

# Chapter 1, Try, Try and Try Again

People often try to lose weight but they don't succeed. They do all the things they're supposed to do but they don't often seem to work. Sometimes people use their computers to help them such as printing a chart to put on the wall or to see their progress on a spreadsheet. Or perhaps you hear now that many people are imagining that they are actually doing the things they're supposed to do but are not in fact doing them. Instead, they are still having late nights up drinking, still eating unhealthy food, getting stiff playing computer games and other things like that. But even with making notes on a computer, they think they're still keeping to a health plan. Alternatively, somebody might plan to read more but sometimes for years, they don't read anything more than a tabloid newspaper. And there are many other examples like this.

Other people take up a hobby and the hobby takes up all their time. So, they can't even talk to their families or friends. They are either busy doing their hobby or they can only talk about their hobby that is boring to people who have to listen. Other people only watch movies and not any other TV that it affects their social skills. They enjoy movies for the light relief they have for them and don't want to watch any more serious programmes. Alternatively, they might have heard something about films in the past such as them being an art form for our modern times and just don't really feel interested in other forms of television, books or other entertainment.

And it seems that people do say that other people do just make excuses and they need to try doing something a bit better than that. For example, people say that you just have to say to yourself that you will do it because it's a reasonable thing to do and then you will. But all of these ideas can often come to naught. This is no matter how much well-meaning advice has been given to people that they still don't do it. Also, somebody can endlessly plan. To do this, they use a computer or paper. People look up things online such as health advice you're supposed to look up to improve your health. And they do other things you're supposed to do. But still, their plans like the best-laid plans of mice and men don't succeed. This book will look at these concerns about why plans don't work, they do work or they sometimes work but not well enough.

The following chapter in this book is Chapter 2. This is Are You a Mouse? It looks at how people use their computers well, badly or indifferently. It deals with such as planning on a computer instead of paper and if it is really just the same. Also, it is trying to keep to a health plan, having 15 minutes of fame and budgeting. Budgeting as a planning problem affects what you buy for yourself and so what you can do with what you buy as well. Possibly, many people today just need a computer for everything and possibly still as well a television. Also, it is whether you have savings. The savings could be spent in the future or give you a buffer against all kinds of problems you might otherwise have. Some of these things keep going in the third chapter. This is Only Plan You Need.

# Chapter 2, Are You a Mouse?

The early advice about computers was that they were better for planning than paper. You just had to follow a few basic principles anyone could understand so that your planning was many times over better. These basic principles were available freely to anyone who was a newspaper reader or television viewer. So, if they had a computer at work or at home, there was no excuse not to use it better. Computer company spokesmen often talked of these principles to try to sell more computers. And journalists interviewed many people involved in making personal computer software and personal computers about these principles really quite a lot in the early days. This was as the uptake of this technology increased and people that might not have heard it the first time still wanted to hear it.

Examples of these principles were that you could use word processors to edit a plan and you didn't have to write it out all over again. Also, you could use formatting tools to make what you said clearer. And you could use spreadsheets to do calculations much more easily and more healthily than a pocket calculator or pencil and paper. It was also a generally accepted principle that you would use your printer so you didn't have to read from the screen when the screen had radiation. This was a solution to the screen having radiation put forward. Nor did anyone normally say that the effects of screen radiation were cumulative but they said that you just had to take breaks after an hour. These were some of the basic principles involved. Literally, editing your plan could take 5 minutes. And then you could print your plan in 5 minutes and read it for half an hour. This was once you had done the work you needed to do to start with in typing up the original document. Also, adding to the document over time, you could get a much longer document and a much fuller document. You just had to make the start you did with it but otherwise you were OK for screen radiation.

There was advice about using word processors and spreadsheets in particular when this was the most popular early software. Indeed, it was almost the only software available on most personal computers other than games. It was a long time before digital pictures, video and photographs. And people hadn't yet heard of photo-editing software, video-editing software, music making software or digital art software. So for a time, they sold personal computers when really the only software available was spreadsheets and word processors. There was a market possibly for word processors in people wanting to write a novel and for spreadsheets in doing home accounts. Computer company spokesman interviewed on television though would emphasize the versatility of the software to do anything you wanted.

You could be a home professional or start your own business using it. As well, you could use it to start doing charitable activities such as running social groups for the elderly or other disadvantaged people. This was with a few friends who lived nearby. One of you might know about computers. Also, you might know somebody else that was a whiz with them and who would come into your home and do a few hours work on them. Or you could really organize any small-scale activity with just a PC in your spare room or your bedroom. This is if the activity involved just a few dozen people. As well, after the Internet, you could use a computer to research business opportunities, look for a job, do an online course or even work from home. But to start with, computers really only offered spreadsheets and word processors that you used to organize anything.

Nor were many home users when they first brought out home PCs connected to other computers on the Internet. This was except those that worked for colleges or big organizations. For example, most people didn't have e-mail yet. E-mail was a versatile communication and collaboration tool. Before that, people had to type a letter with a word processor and do a mail merge. So the Internet and e-mail were game changers for what people used their computers for. As well, you could e-mail WP files and spreadsheets. This made word processors and spreadsheets faster tools. Or you could use a word processor and a spreadsheet for text and figures going on your website. But later, people said the Internet was great just for consuming media as a customer. This is without being a designer, computer expert or working in technology. You could get entertainment, news and sport. So some people might not now be so interested in these other older ideas although some usually older people would still be interested in them. Young people would also be interested in doing creative arts on their computers. But then, they might post their works online as well.

Also, anyone wanting to campaign on an issue they felt strongly about would want to know about personal computers for the home and ask people what software you had on them. Later, computer salesmen would recommend people 'go online'. Home PC owners could join online campaign groups. These online campaign groups were people like them already online. This was easier than explaining how you could use a word processor, a mail merge and a spreadsheet for your campaign. Computers were also expensive if you used your printer a lot that it might cost as much in a year or even just a few months to do a lot of printing as the original computer you had bought. This was not what computer companies really intended for home users. Possibly, computer companies then felt relieved when the Internet came along. So, they had something better to sell. This was when some computer companies were wondering if they really had a good product to sell in computers. Or they were only really selling a dream of being a novelist or saving money with a spreadsheet. Later, there was getting a job or college place with computer skills you had brushed up on at home. This is when people forgot usually all they had learned on computer courses in a few months.

For example of how using word processors, spreadsheets and mail merges were not so good at home, paper and printers were a problem generally with computers. This was despite computer manufacturers and software companies recommending a printer for the sake of screen radiation. The original printers were not very good at printing large amounts of material anyway. This was when it was expensive to print, printers were poor quality, and you could get only small amounts of paper in the feed before you had to refill it. Also, printers gave off a lot of heat and made you feel uncomfortable. And the paper feeds were fiddly.

Even after the typewriter was outdated, people were still having problems with their PCs. This was without typewriter carriage returns and more fiddly feeding paper into them but people were still dying of heart attacks with the new PCs. Also, some houses had gone up in flames. This was when having too many bits of loose paper and too many paper files in their house. Often, as well, nobody really knew if they were achieving much and not even themselves despite having developed computer skills and having a computer. Computers also interfered with family life. Their friends as well could see evidence of what they were trying to do but thought they were sadly failing in it. Often friends, family and everybody else coming around to their homes just felt a bit put out seeing a computer. People might shun computer users because of this. And in this way, computer users could become isolated. Also, they could have poor social skills because it was time consuming to use computers and because of screen radiation affecting concentration. As well, somebody not taking regular breaks visitors might see as being just a cripple. If isolated or with poor social skills, people could become ill and victims themselves. Surely, this was the opposite of what anyone had intended when trying to change the world!

It was just not fun! Many people said this. So computer companies had this idea that campaigning or any use of a computer should be fun. At least, it was instead of not being fun at all. This was an aim for computer companies. Then, no matter what they were doing on their computers, computer users could still keep their friends, their job and home and have a girlfriend. This was such as if computer users still had good social skills. Possibly then to solve this problem, computers could become media machines. You could watch movies or read books on them. And this was just what anyone really wanted to do on computers. At least, this was what the marketing men said. And they had done many surveys on it and a lot of thinking.

Some people as well also might improve their social skills by becoming artists, writers or being able to say they were film makers to friends. But these might be special people only. They could manage better. Other people might not be able to talk the talk and walk the walk. So they could just use it for going online and getting more TV. As well, some people might read newspapers online and not get print newspapers. Also, students could use computers for their school and college work. And younger people or older people as well could look up encyclopaedias and learning tools, other resources and advice online.

Computers might now be just a consumer good. And this was what they should have been to start with. Before, they were still selling consumer goods but they were also selling a dream of having science fiction like technology in your home. Yet strangely, when you could use the technology just to watch a movie, it really was a bit even more science fiction like. And this was more properly from the science fiction movies and books. As well, it was when it hadn't really been science fiction beforehand that science fiction now even seemed normal. People in the past had asked questions in all seriousness when buying computers that were from sci-fi movies or political thrillers. But really, the lines at times were possibly just a bit blurred. This is as to whether computers were just a toy or you could do all these things in real life. As well, this was you at home with just several hundred bucks to buy a computer for yourself. And you might even have the computer you bought in a drawer in your bedroom without any more space to keep it. You bought it by going in a shop. Anyone could buy one. They just had to have the money and live near a computer shop. Later, computers were available from mail order catalogues. And later still after that you could order them online.

Computers were a toy for the home and a present to your secretary also. This is what some people used to say in the 1980s. And some business people would reluctantly agree only after everybody else had had computers already for years if they were really a good business investment or not. For example, in the 1980s, supposed seasoned businessmen would go to a shop in the local shopping centre in their lunch hours to buy a personal computer for their business. And they would take along a 17-year old who had just started working in their office to advise them on what computers and software to get. They would take this 17-year old along only because younger people were supposed to understand computers better than older people could do. As well, they only thought young people knew about computers because it had been in the newspapers that they did. And this as well was all young people even when they had only got a home computer from a games shop themselves. Or they had read everything in a newspaper or magazine or seen it on television. Yet, this is what many business people did when computers were new to everyone.

Almost nobody either had any computer qualifications. Many people who did have any computer qualifications didn't even want to work in computers. This was when they had a dose of radiation from the early VDUs. They felt it had affected their bodies, sexual health and their brains. And they had gotten this poor health when working at the back of the classroom doing a computer project on their own that was part of their course. Then, the teacher blamed them for not taking breaks assiduously enough after every hour. Also, this was in schools that had no other computers for any other subject other than computer science. Their schools were made of bricks, mortar and stone and were learning institutions in which they felt they had gotten damaged brains themselves. This was also unlike the other pupils who had gotten an education. At the time, people said that it was computers being new, the technology being untested and they compared computers to the frontier in the Wild West.

Really, people often blamed it on the technology being new that people got ill. Or people who got ill had not followed all the health advice that explained their ill health as well. And usually, somebody had properly given them all the health advice you needed. Really, they should have followed all the health advice better. Both of these ideas about the technology being new and people not following health advice annoyed some affected people. People did not volunteer to do something that was dangerous when they were children. Or this was as some people thought. Computers' victims thought it was obvious to everyone. They had also made normal efforts to follow the health advice. But this is without thinking that they were literally sitting in front of a microwave oven. This was to use a computer and do some computer programming, try a spreadsheet or word processor program or to play computer games on it. Why would they take breaks in this case? Nobody would go near a microwave oven knowing the health downside. That is no normal person, no normally intelligent person or no person who had a choice.

As for following health advice, in work, they often told new office workers it was impractical for them to take breaks from computers and use them for just not very long each day. This was if anyone was going to get any work done. Or the manager said that it was nonsense anything they said. This was that they were saying they had heard about the science. And because of the scientific warnings, they were saying they didn't want to work too long and take breaks. They felt they were entitled to breaks and special health at work practices. The manager would say that people starting work weren't qualified to judge. They weren't when not scientists themselves. And he was telling them as a manager that it was safe.

Later, there would be a guilt trip when computer users got ill. This was that they couldn't possibly have believed a manager. This was when he was just a manager. He didn't know! Really, employees knew he didn't any more than they would know. This was what he would now cheerily inform them. Also, they were entitled to read newspapers! And they could use their good minds and educations. They must have once had them, but had decided for some reason of their own not to use them. It could all be about intelligence. This was a guilt trip people only felt bad and angry about their IQ score.

Managers or other people who were in the office accused them for worrying. And people might disregard their other feelings. This is if only office workers it was normal to worry about brain damage. And that was if that they was what they were really talking about. This is even if people thought brain damage was more socially acceptable to worry about than intelligence. After that, people would say that if they were still saying they had brain damage, then a doctor or nurse would come to end their life. It is when you might expect a doctor or nurse to end your life for sound medical reasons. Or even, people were told the manager could just do it himself. This is when he knew how to do it anyway. He had been on a course to learn it. And a doctor had better things to do. So, he wouldn't bother coming to their office. This was when the brain-damaged person had already explained they had brain damage.

It was such a terrible thing they were saying. The bit of the brain that burnt off by the computer screen radiation is the top and the front parts of the brain. These are scientifically the distinctively human parts. And people who are complaining about computer screen radiation affecting them are really saying that they have only a reptilian brain. This reptilian brain is what is left in their heads. They are like the lower animals. Also, it is not like even lower mammals. But they are saying they have the brains of a lizard.

So office workers who have they feel been affected by computers best not complain about it. This is when they hear people talk generally. Or they might just have overheard someone else talking to somebody else. But it is really true. And people were saying that other people might be complaining about lack of intelligence as in IQ tests but they can't do any job now. This is any other job except as office workers. They can't get another job when they have no explanation about why they wanted to leave their previous employment. So they best keep working at their desk. And they can accept anything at all they're told to do. Or they can accept any work practices. Nor should they complain about anything. They can't when that would be giving the game away.

And they had done this to start with when they had agreed to use computers just because the manager had explained it. And all he had really said was that it was to his advantage if they got ill. Or it was whatever else they thought he was saying. They were some kind of pet he had at his home. Or they were prostitutes to him at work. This is if he had slept with them in his office. Nor had he said that they would actually lose their jobs if they didn't do it. Or any normal person would have gone on strike if the manager had actually asked for sex. Also, they would have asked when they started work what trade union representation they had. This was when other workers who worked there were members of unions and had their rights looked after. As well, this was just like any other workers for their company. Or it was any other good company. And there was a union for office workers they could have joined. But they never asked about it. If they had said they wanted to be a member of the union, then, of course, the company would have allowed them to join.

It seems that computers have been the subject of many guilt trips for many years. And this was long before people talked about Internet addiction, changing the world anxiety or anything else. Also, everything was a toy with a computer. People would make you feel guilty if you got ill. You must have realized this! You were just messing around pressing buttons on a toy. The manager gave you some real work to do that you should have realised was only your real work. And you really needn't have tried so hard doing anything he gave you also to do on the computer. Really, you were just messing around because they had a computer in the office. Or you had one in your home and so you played around on it. Nor was any activity you did on your computer normally worthwhile. This was as any real activity in real life. And it was just as you might have heard of beforehand. It wasn't when everybody knew computers had radiation. So, you could not have been putting any full competence towards it.

And people still did the same activities you heard about in the newspapers. As well, this was ever since the invention of newspapers. These things in newspapers were such as being writers, artists or film makers. But these people doing them were doing it differently to you. At least it should be obvious to you that they must be doing it differently. This was for them still to be mentioned. As well, it was for people not to talk about computers at the same time. What you had was a hobby. Or it was just a con trick. This was to persuade you that you were really doing art. Nor could you possibly have believed that you were an artist. A hobby was all it was if it was anything at all. But it gave you a dose of radiation. Also, everybody knows that computers have this radiation. But you still wanted one. For some reason of your own, you had wanted one. Or you had not thrown away one you were given. So, people were really just wondering why you were still using it. As well, they wanted to know why you were talking about your hobby so much. And you were not visiting art galleries. Or you were not reading other peoples' novels but writing your own one.

These guilt trips and people saying that computers were just a toy was what many computer companies seemed to think was the real justification for having one and them being able to sell them. You did not need to worry if you were the computer salesman that people were going to start a revolution. This is if computers were in fact just a toy. And the person was just throwing muses that they wanted to change the world. Any campaign organization might have computers. But obviously, some people used computers properly. Nor do they get their advice from a computer shop. How they used them differently from what a concerned citizen might think of doing at home was a matter of professional understanding. This was an understanding that they had as any organization. It was a bit similar to how businesses might use computers. Really, they knew what they were doing from sound organisational and business type sense. This was beyond the scope of many home type persons. Also, it was just how anyone competent would use computers. What you heard in the newspapers was just for dreamers. Or it was marketing that somebody had thought of. You were not sure what the marketing plan was. But then, some people buying computers had probably read it all in the newspapers.

At home, writing a novel was for amusement. Or it was so you could think you were a real author in your dreams. But you had a word processor to write it on just as professional writers used. So, your dreams could become more real. Your computer was a prop that helped you to pretend to your family and friends that you were really a writer. Your wife might show a friend your spare room in which you had your computer that was what you did. And her friend might be a bit interested. Also, your spare room with your computer in it was your den. This was similar to your father's generation having had a garden shed for men to get away from their wives. Saving money using a computer spreadsheet was so you could go to a theme park.

Or it is how you have heard celebrities talking about how they make art and think of themselves as artists that you get some better idea about what they actually do to be celebrities. As well, you get some better idea of art generally. Also, you can often make some of this art on your computer yourself. You can do so at least enough to get an idea about how to make art. Often the only thing that is missing is that you don't have a million selling record. And famous people don't necessarily use any programs different from the creative arts programs you've tried yourself. They may even be exactly the same ones.

And so much online is really art in one form or another. Music videos have a billion views some of them. And this billion views club is growing. Also, there are literally thousands of times more pictures and artworks available to see today. This is at a click of a button than you could have ever seen previously. And it is no matter even if people were keen art lovers and went to art galleries or their friends had paintings on their walls. As well, it is in a lifetime that people would not have seen so many paintings. This is as you can now see online. Today, people can see more paintings in a few weeks at their computer desks than they could have seen in a lifetime beforehand.

Nor did computer companies have to worry that they were giving some other companies competitive advantages and changing the face of business or what shops you got all changing for example. This was something everyone might be able to see. As well, you could completely swap around who were the business leaders. Companies a century old could go under and new companies take over. Possibly, they could in every single sector of the economy. This could even be heavy industry. And it was not just shops selling computers and making more money from them than their previous lines.

Also, companies could do mail merges and make a million overnight. This was in the heady days when people thought it was still very possible. And it was before people pointed out that the advantages and disadvantages were just like any other advantages and disadvantages of other marketing methods. As well, the companies that were doing it were not necessarily doing it just for their own sakes by themselves. Instead, they were paying other people to do it. These other people could do it cheaper because of economies of scale. Really, it was just normal business sense. They expected to be paid for what they did. But it was only just competitive with other companies. You would not make a million knowing how to do a mail merge anymore. At least, this was that you couldn't after even a very short time.

In the mid-nineties, the Internet was made available for commercial use. This meant people could pay for things online with a credit card. And things could be sold online and not just given away free. Large companies, colleges and the government had long since had e-mail and websites. But these had limited appeal to many people. It seems that academics and other people were reluctant to work on content without getting a good enough payment. So there was not much content, poor quality content and not a lot of content regularly updated. Though, the Internet and its possibilities were too good some people thought to waste. And you could waste this resource just because of this one deficiency about money some people thought as well. But then, if you paid people, you would then solve all your problems. And so you really could have a better more useful Internet. As well, people could make some money as well. The economy could also grow. Still, at the time, politicians did make a hefty profit by selling off the Internet. This was for people to use the Web commercially. That was what they sold when much of the rest of it existed already for non-commercial use.

In fact, some people say that going online offers companies genuine reductions in cost. Also, they don't need so many workers. And they can save money on this as well. But these reductions in the numbers of workers by one company another company might not make up anywhere else. Possibly, this decision then to commercialise the Web could in the end cause unemployment. Also, websites can be hosted in any country of the world. This might provide business opportunities for people in other countries that they didn't have before. And they might have other advantages they didn't have before as well. Readers will see how it plays out in full in the news.

Possibly, people could just get other jobs. This is when computers might really just be a bit overrated. And all you need is a cheap reliable source of labour usually for economic activity to increase in an area. Everybody might have a computer but people use their computers mainly all the same ways. This is as anyone else does it the same way as you that has the same computer. Also, this is just for things as people used a typewriter in the past quite often as well that people today will use computers for still. If computers were more efficient, then they could slash jobs. And nobody might replace these jobs. If one person using a computer can do the work of 100 previously, then it might just be common sense that you need 99 other jobs people can do not using computers. This though might be a tall order.

For example, people still use computers even in today's day and age for doing boring admin work. And people really don't do admin work that fast anyway that some people think either. It is hard time-consuming meticulous record keeping type work. But then, it is a million times faster than using a typewriter and just paper or the mail. Still, everyone already has a computer today. So there's no comparative advantage. Also, anything genuinely exciting, many people often can't be bothered with anyway. This is despite some media consumers expectations of businesses and other organizations.

Some people say though there is money an entrepreneur or a far-sighted existing business could make from exciting innovations other people are too slow to take up or don't want to take up. And some other people say that if these advantages are really all from genuinely innovative computer technology, then the company that is going to take advantage will likely be a technology company. It does not make economic sense for other companies to take advantage when the technology might change in a few years' time. Also, technology is only one competitive advantage and computer technology only one of the possible technological advantages. So there really are some business and economic arguments not to take up new technology or to leave it to somebody else.

Many companies just keep the minimum records and data that they need that is only what they need for legal reasons. This is all indeed after the first heady days about getting a competitive advantage using personal computers. Some people in business don't really feel computers are that productive. They don't feel computers are that productive when they read some of the things you hear in the press about them. Every company might not really be seeking to use computers more and more. Yet, this is what you still hear in some parts of the media. This is as well because of the experience of people using computers that some other people don't feel is so great. Generally, as well, people will try to avoid excitement. This is more than some people think.

Office workers sit in front of a hot screen on a swivelling office chair that is often at the wrong height in a stuffy office block. There is a coffee machine for people to drink coffee in their breaks. Coffee machines are so that people won't be poisoned. Other office workers presumably or cleaners would poison them if they had to share a kitchen to make snacks and drinks in their breaks and lunch hours. This new work phenomenon of people being poisoned was discovered in offices in the 1960s. Often, people don't even as well take their breaks. But they will drink their coffee with their coffee cup placed next to their computer keyboards, screens and wires. This is when computer keyboards and screens have electricity going through them. It really is not a good thing to look at. And this is no matter how you do it. As well, people clicking on a mouse in front of hot screens remind some people of paint drying. They just sit boringly clicking on the mouse every few seconds, occasionally using the keyboard or they also occasionally get up and go somewhere. Bullying amongst office workers some people say is chronic and almost universal in all offices. Also, there's a type of power playing office politics going on, 'power dressing' and attention to status symbols.

It does not really fill many people with confidence about office work that this is where businesses can make their profits. Nor when they know other things about computers do they think this is where the long-term future of the company lies or where it will continue to make its millions. Some companies think they realise all this and some companies think differently and are pressing ahead with more computerisation. Yet, many companies might not have many aspirations for computers. It is just a basic principle that computers mean you need less workers, you can do things you couldn't before and you save money. Nevertheless, some people don't like using computers and don't like investing in them. Many people don't like computers and would rather not use them. That includes people who make decisions about buying computers for their workplace and how much they or others will use computers.

The rises of China, India and other countries economically often at the expense of countries such as the United States and countries in Europe does not all have to do with computers and the Internet. These countries had wanted more power for some time and had been working on it for some time as well. For example, many previously third world countries had trained thousands of graduates and built up their education systems over decades. Also, they had been trying to get nuclear weapons for decades. Bill Clinton made a speech about the new world order in which he accepted the inevitable that these countries would become economically greater and America would have a reduction in the size of its economy in a few years' time. The end of the Cold War also increased the size of the economies of dozens of third world countries. This was the peace dividend. Before, young men from these countries had died by the hundreds of thousands every year. People in the army can't take part usually in useful economic activity. Now people that don't have to join can be business people, producers, workers and consumers. Also, newly expanding economies will use computers. This is just as any economically strong country in the world does already.

When some people see businessmen using computers, they don't though automatically think of massive productivity gains that will help them take over the world. Many businessmen don't like using computers at all. This might be because what they have heard about the health downside does not appeal to them. Also, it is costing something designing and using a spreadsheet. There has to be a profit from using a computer spreadsheet at the end of the day as well. And you have to be able to say how much a spreadsheet is saving you every month or making you. You can add this figure to the balance sheet or profit and loss account at the end of the year. This is in all seriousness.

And this is even if someone with a computer in their spare room thinks there is not something that serious about spreadsheets. He probably doesn't when he thinks of experiences he has had of them. Really, often somebody at home just messed around with spreadsheets to see what they were like and then didn't use them again. Also, the person who used them at home even for a bit thinks everybody has had the same experiences with them as he did himself. Companies do try to control the experiences in every detail that people have using their products. It is just so that a company has the same commercial offering to sell to everybody when this is useful for marketing. As well, everyone may as well have the same experiences anyway. This is when any product is usually just a throwaway consumer product and has no political or social value. Really, many commercial offerings are all throwaway in one way or another.

Business people who try to make their products more than just throwaway can come badly unstuck. It seems that people won't allow you to benefit other people. This is by something they can go and buy in a shop. But they don't mind if people are just wasting their money or trying to look good or feel good for the sake of their self-esteem. Also, they don't mind if people are becoming ill even if they were the most proficient users. Other people have feelings of vanity, jealousy, paranoia or depression and they need to give themselves a gift to feel better. This is OK then for most people if someone else is only trying to make money out of them. Such a product for vanity, status or self-esteem need not have any real value. This is except that some people can make money from it. Also, that is just how you keep the economic system going. People have to want new things and then mainly throw them away. There are some exceptions to this. Some of these are such as medicines or exercise equipment. But generally, the rule holds true.

An example of this idea that consumer goods are just throwaway including computers in the home is that someone looking at their spreadsheet software and designing a spreadsheet might at the end of the experience feel it was a bit of a joke. Their spreadsheet if they did it for home budgeting as far as they could see wouldn't save them money and nor could they or would they want to change their spending habits. Also, it just reminded them that they had bought so much stuff new that now was really just worthless. They might get money back on the insurance if their property was stolen or damaged but otherwise, there is no way they could get money for it. This is with trying to sell it anywhere. Part of this might be the market for second-hand goods that many people know. Or this is just a fact that people will find out if they want to sell something to make some quick money. Even in the computer age, it could still be that you went to an old-fashioned pawnshop as the only way to get money back on your property.

Also, if you were a single man living on your own, you might be able to control your expenditure. But with a wife and children spending your money as well, it might be impossible to change their habits even if you could change your ones using a spreadsheet. People's families don't want to change their spending habits, they won't listen to anyone else talking about the need to save money and they expect people with an income to pay for it all still the same. Indeed, many marriages are based on the idea that the husband will contribute to their wives' spending and won't criticise her. He won't often know what she spends it on and she will not tell him if he asks. So budgeting with a spreadsheet is pointless. Many men as well can still it seems get adequate money from jobs they have really not doing very much. These types of men might also get a computer for their home.

As many computer users know, you have an hour to use your computer only before taking a break for health reasons. Also, this is for the sake of your concentration in the normal sense of the word. You want to be able to use your computer and not make mistakes when using it and as well be able to do other things afterwards. Still, people have experiences of being on their computer for 3 or 4 hours together. They overuse their computers when frustrated they can't get all their things done in an hour. This might be caused as well by learning the features of the software whilst trying to do a task on the computer the same as a task you can do on paper. Also, the computer can crash and users could try to get it started working again. As well, they might be frustrated to get work done normally and not want to leave it after just 1 hour. This is just for the sake of finishing a task that lasts longer than 1 hour.

Keeping to just 2 hours on your computer with a half-hour break can be frustrating. Also, you might feel there is nothing to do in your breaks. Either a break is boring or people feel they are just wasting their time. This is when they might generally have other things they could be doing such as reading a book or doing something around the house. But some people say that they would only have this worry if the computer had affected their concentration or their computer crashed. As well, learning a feature of the software even for 5 minutes so you can use it in a document when you haven't used this feature before to do something that you would be able to do easily on paper can affect your concentration and push the end of your session to much later that it would be too long.

There are quite a few negative things to do with computers. These things can affect motivation or the ability to do anything else after using a computer. Computers affect your abilities and motivation to do anything else because computers can affect concentration and are bad for personal hygiene. But people will still use computers despite these downsides. They still use them persuading themselves that they can do better next time or something else like that. Also, people keen to use computers for what people tell you they can do on them that are so useful and interesting might ignore newspaper articles and TV news items. These newspaper articles and TV News items are about computers causing cancer and other things like that. It seems a long way in the future that they might get it and, as well, people don't necessarily plan to use computers all that time.

But once using computers a while, somebody might worry that they could get ill in the future. Or some computer users feel they've already made themselves ill from using their computers. Then, it is just a case of when you stop using your computer completely. Or people could use assistive technologies or other ways of using computers less. Ways of using computers less are such as you could use your hands less and use speech recognition instead. Or you could cut down on your hobbies. Instead, just use your computer for a budget or watching video. Alternatively, some people might keep using their computers still just because they have such poor concentration from using them in the first place.

Or it might be something such as the need to take a multivitamin, get up more often and get some fresh air or open a window. Possibly, people have poor concentration but they don't realise they've poor concentration. This is when they can't use their minds properly to work out what the problem is. Yet, they may have some idea though. Or somebody told them it or they read it in a newspaper. But then, people do not necessarily stop using computers if they do use them. They don't when they have poor concentration to make decisions as was said beforehand but also they might not have anything else much going on in their lives that seems worthwhile.

For example, they might not have many friends come round. So, they don't need to consume media to talk to friends coming round and then abandon any computer hobbies. As well, any friends they do have may also use computers. So their friends don't mind them talking about computers. This is when other people wouldn't actually understand anything they were saying about them. They wouldn't actually understand anything they were saying about computers if they generally did not use computers themselves at all for anything. People also feel that if they are members of cyber communities, then they don't necessarily need their own real communities as much.

You should be able to use computers, you hear, all right and just as any normal person would do. You would manage OK with something you were interested in. This is computers as much as anything else you would do so. But some people think when getting nowhere fast that they shouldn't have computers at all. Some other people as well say that it all happens as long as people still keep using their computers! Or it is that people just don't take breaks from their computers properly. This is when not taking breaks using computers might be the real problem.

So people go away from reading newspaper articles about computers causing people's problems but then want to go back on them to look up some fact that they're not sure of that comes into their head or some other advantage computers have for users. Also, if they have problems, they could keep a diary on a computer. That might be more useful than a paper diary. It might be when they have the word processor's editing tools to help them. As well, people can look up things online. And they can even copy and paste them in to their diaries or other notes.

Somebody might wake up one day having had a good sleep the night before thinking they won't use their computer more. But after a while, they might just feel too bored to do anything else. Or there is nothing on normal television and radio. Then, they go back on their computers all over again. The same other things happen again as well. So, their lives don't ever change. This is when they once more still don't take breaks from their computers. Or it is anything else that might be the real problem.

People don't take breaks or anything else still when they are the same people and they are doing the same types of things. So nothing changes. This is except that some people say they should just not use their computers. This is when obviously they must know computers are a problem to them. And that would just be the easiest solution if they didn't use them more. Also, this is without talking about anything else. Anything else and this is not a joke at least requires good concentration and a good mind to think about it. As well, this is as would be necessary to have good concentration and a good mind to find any solution for anything else the same.

Possibly, people think that practically if they really did take breaks a bit better and did not use their computers as much every day, then they could do all the things you're supposed to do on them. This is without problems. And using computers then might be well within their limits and capabilities of things they can do generally. Also, somebody could just somehow overcome their lack of concentration from screen radiation, sitting a desk, lack of air and these types of things. Then, they could do their computer tasks and other tasks better. And they could live a more normal life. This is after all. They could do this just the same way you hear that some people are able to cope with feeling tired from having lack of sleep. Some people are stronger than just that they feel tired and you could learn from that as well. This is both physically and mentally they might be stronger than tiredness or drink. And they have other strategies as well to help them. So, it is not all brute strength and concentration. Nor is it straining the grey cells on its own.

Some people say, 'you are too good to use computers'. But then, the person they're saying it to might think that computer users are really writers, artists, film makers and music makers. As well, they are the people changing the world that you hear about. And everyone does say computers are how people really do change the world. This is if other people might be using them differently. Yet, you don't know about it. But generally, what are people talking about? This is if everybody today is an artist. And they are on his or her own computer. As well,it is without going outside the home. There seems then to be a bit of an impasse. And out of this confusion there is still, people keep using their computers.

For an example of why people keep using their computer despite knowing computers affect their concentration is that people might regard that it is inexcusable and socially unacceptable to be rude to people. This is if you compare poor computer concentration to just being tired. Somebody shouldn't be rude to other people even if they are tired. Also, it is as if tiredness was the only reason to be rude. This is as well even if people can tell you're tired. But some people will still annoy you by their nonetheless speaking to you loudly and asking you too many questions. Alternatively, somebody who is tired might think that other people can't tell at all if you're tired. And nor do all people realise that somebody can't concentrate to speak very well or do things if tired. But then, people should tell them themselves and not just call other people rude. Also, this is when they might think you were indeed just yourself being rude. You could just think of a few things beforehand you can say to people who still keep talking to you. This is to make them stop talking to you if tired. Things you've prepared beforehand are easiest. You are too tired probably to think of many other things later. When tired, you can think of your own prepared notes again. Some people think there may be some way to do something similar with not having concentration on computers to general tiredness. This is just to learn from other life lessons they have had already. That is a good rule some people think most times to do.

Really, though, there must be at least some reduction in your own mental concentration when using computers. As well, it is even if you use them only for a short time. This unnecessary reduction in concentration for people who have computers at home and don't have to use them is at least logically more than against not using a computer at all for anything. Still, people still today drink alcohol or coffee, skip meals and live in airless rooms that affect concentration. Yet, other people don't criticise them for that. They at least don't say for example that it has affected their concentration and that's the reason they shouldn't do them. Instead, newspapers and other people usually only talk about damaged organs or other damage to health. This is as such from alcohol or cigarettes. That might mean if you think of it just like being alcohol or cigarettes, watching the late movie or anything else, then none of these things are so different with computers. Really, you might think it as well. You could just get on with your day and still be doing some things on your computer. This is if it really might make no difference to what you would do already with your day despite hearing about any downside. Or it is what you know about things since an adult and for example, you still had started drinking.

A worry with computers, though, is that you will never be able to defeat this tendency to lack of concentration or lack of motivation. This is if you use computers regularly. But then, reading books can also affect your concentration negatively as can normal television. And many other things do as well. So, what's the difference? And you have to do something like consume some media. Nor can you be doing absolutely nothing. Many things in life are like computers in that they affect your concentration. This is particularly if you use computers for a long time or years and you use them for really a few hours a day that computers will affect your concentration. But you don't just want to do nothing all day, do you? That would be boring quite genuinely. As well, you don't just want to do nothing in your spare time. And this is particularly today when there's so much anyone could be doing. This is even just looking at art, watching videos, reading or listening to music. You can do this online today. Or computers are better than hobby or art equipment that you can still buy from bricks and mortar shops or order online.

Still, overall, if you use computers a bit less but still a bit, you might be generally better off. You really could be better off after all. This is despite screen radiation affecting concentration. And this is particularly if you have not already used computers a lot. Temporarily, computers can improve your mind. You can play brain-training games, chess and other mentally stimulating games. You can look up facts and information and learn. And people get encyclopaedias, books, podcasts and radio online. As well, hobbies can be diverting. Also, they are mentally stimulating. This is if you try to get better at them. And many hobbies today, creative arts and other things like that now almost all use computers. Some you can't even do any other way.

Paper and older technologies had their own downsides. This is as well even for improving your mind. Possibly, things have not changed much. Yet, some people say that now computers are different. And it is not just the same as in the past. This is because you're using your mind when you have radioactive radiation that you didn't have before. Writing a diary on paper might even still though have a downside for concentration. And paper paints are toxic. Nor can you do a video making hobby or photography hobby today really without a computer. In the past, video or photography had a downside. But it was worse. This downside was toxic chemicals, fiddly cutting equipment and repetitive physical movements.

The most guaranteed thing to improve your mind is being a student. And even in the past, that had a downside. It did when writing and using paper affected your brain negatively. This was just like computers to keep your concentration. Paper has some of the same affects and some different to computers. Writing and reading seeing a line of text and following it with your eye affects your brain. And they also have negative affect the whole time. But you gain from studying in that you can learn facts and understand problems..

Really, some people might not want to be a student if they were to start thinking too much about it. This is some people don't feel the science of learning is so great a subject. Yet, most people would say that it is absurd to worry like this. Everyone knows students broaden their minds and will benefit from their studies. So, there is really no need to worry, is there now? There probably isn't. This is when it is well known that students don't have problems with their minds.

Yet, there is a worry that computers really are today a game changer. And they could affect people's brains in ways that haven't happened before. At least, it is to an extent not known for centuries. This is since the last new technology came along that changed things. Possibly, using computers, you are like a lab rat. And this is in your own bedroom or in your own living room you are. As well, it seems unnecessary. Nobody would surely want these problems!

That is unless people are confident for their own reasons that no harm was in fact in store for them from using computers. But nobody can really be sure of that. There might be some nasty future shock. 'Not enough research has been done'. You hear this said. And people such as legislators and educators don't often seem interested enough. This is when everyone says computers have advantages to them. You need them! Humanity can't do without computers already. So, there is no good reason to do worrying research. Yet, do computer users really know if their computers are harmful? It might be too soon to say how bad it is or if people are worrying needlessly. Possibly, more research does need doing. The research is not really being done into it that would change things. This is even if a lot of research has been done already. Also, people involved with computers may just be ignoring existing research.

But this idea that computers have a downside and not much of an upside for home users might exclude other ideas everyone knows about. These other ideas are such as today your TV is also a computer. So is your smart phone. Also, many other things destroy brain cells but people still do them. This could be drink, drugs and things like that. Also, things some people wouldn't normally suspect can affect their brain. These things are such as reading, writing, sitting at a desk, watching the late movie or skipping meals. Yet, people say computers really are different today from everything else before or out there still. And this is even if they say all these other older things will just continue the same as well. Or older things will also get worse. Computers might still be a newer bigger problem yet to have its full impact.

Screen radiation affects your concentration and screen radiation is as well poor for personal hygiene. Keyboards are also poor for personal hygiene as is sitting at a desk. Also, if you use computer keyboards too much, it can give you stiff fingers a sign of arthritis or carpal tunnel that is a pinching of the nerve at the top of the hand. Both of these are serious conditions. As well, looking at a wall directly opposite you because your computer is against a wall in your bedroom is bad for your eyesight. Also, it is bad for your concentration. Dust can accumulate behind computer desks. And it is hard to clean behind computers because of wires plugged in. Also, electricity in computer hardware encourages dust to settle near the computer. Computer hardware, wireless Internet connections or mobile phone microwaves, televisions and radios are carcinogenic. Nobody could want cancer you might think. This is even if prepared to put up with everything else.

Computers are very useful to businesses, governments, educational establishments, charities, any organisations and the economy. So, employers and the government encourage people to use them when there are such big upsides to everybody else in society as a whole. People could use computers for a short time only. Possibly, this is if they got a job in them. Then, they could just earn a bit of money for using them. As well, office work is 9 AM to 5 PM. Those hours have great health advantages. Or they do all other things being equal. As well, people could temporarily only do a computer job before going onto other jobs. And there are many other excuses like these ones are.

People, in fact, can learn about computers in really quite a short time. And this is something that other people sometimes forget when thinking about computers and whether you are getting ill from using them. It is for long periods that you have to use them and then you will probably get ill. Also, when you don't have a long period of training for office work if computers are then so easy to learn, it doesn't make it so bad if you do an office job just for a bit. You have not wasted you time doing too much training. Soon after, you can just get another different job. And this new job doesn't have to use computers.

But then for the person at home using a computer for their hobbies and interests, entertainment and looking things up online, they really don't have to do it. They don't, do they now? That is when all day for years some people use their computers. If they have done it for some time already, then it might now be too much. You really don't as well need a computer in the home for anything. And this is still today you don't. Also, it is despite everything you hear about computers being necessary in the home of the future. Other things you hear are about the technology being ubiquitous or changing everything for everyone. This is in the home but also it is everywhere else.

A digital TV could really still just be like an old-fashioned TV. This is even with a computer chip in it. As well, you can do many things you might still need to do on paper. Or you can do them with a normal phone that is not a smart phone. And you can still get old-fashioned looking radios that work the same. This is even if now the signal is digital and you have dozens of channels. A computer in your home is not compulsory. And if you do hobbies or creative arts on it or spend all your spare time going online to look things up but you still have terrible social skills, then you might need to reconsider. This is with your friends and family or girlfriend you still have terrible social skills.

Something is wrong! It could be the desk with a computer on it in the corner. And that is what is wrong in your life really! Your computer is all of your problems after all! Nor did you have a mistaken belief about it. This is as somebody once might have said to you that you were mistaken about it and you weren't thinking properly. And they said as well that you were deluded computers were a problem to anyone else at all but you. People are wrong to tell you that! And they say as well that you should just do better. You can't do any better! This is ever if going the same way you are. When you have too much radiation from a computer screen, you really can't do better and that's just a fact. Also, it is if you are sitting over an airless desk, you can't do any better often. You are the only one that is deluded. This is when really you already knew it yourself. Somebody might eventually say this to you. Also, somebody might tell you that nobody else has to tell you it still. They don't when you have your own mind you can use to think of these things.

Still, without a computer, you may not feel motivated. An example is to read when computers and the Internet can help you to learn and to read more. Also, you really could use a word processor, spreadsheet or some other program to organize your time better. Or you could do more exercise and keep more to a diet. Better time management includes making time for studying, making time for doing hobbies and interests and for budgeting. And some things you do can indeed help you tremendously to have a better healthier, happier and more productive lifestyle.

People can also get bored watching television. And the computer used just for consuming media might be no different from a television. Boredom can be a killer. It can as well affect people's social skills not finding things interesting. This is because if people have done everything already, then they are likely to suffer chronically from boredom. Their social skills will also get worse not doing much. Unfortunately, now as well, their friends might think they are taking the proverbial a bit in how they speak and other things like that. This is nowadays how they speak if they didn't have any problems like that beforehand.

So, people lose old friends. And they can't make new ones. Then, isolated from friends, family and the help other people can give them, they might just die of loneliness, neglect and never speaking to anyone or getting a helping hand. Or people might die who just lost their jobs. This is when they can't make any normal conversation with co-workers or they appear odd. Also, their employers could question what they have done in their work. No harm possibly then in just going on your computer some people will still say! This is when there is a more important idea not to become bored. This is people can become bored generally with everything and then they could in the end even die from boredom.

You can do a course online for a qualification. Also, you can get more TV shows and other videos online. Or you can read online. This is when there is more to read online. Online, you have more generally. This is of TV shows, radio shows, pod casts, text-based websites, pictures, photographs, art hobby websites and everything else. There is so much to do online. And it doesn't all involve using your own programs. This is when that might be too much typing. Your own programs might be more typing and mouse clicks than just using a browser, typing in a search term or following links. As well, you're unlikely to look at a screen for that long if it is somebody else's content. And it was not your own media file, diary or notes. That can be introverted and obsessive. Also, watching an online video might be like watching television. You just have more choice. This is when you can even put the picture onto your television from a computer. You can do so if you were connected properly.

And if today you use your computer all the time, then that might then be because you have already done too many different things in the past. Now, some people are very near to just being bored with all of the media. And that explains some people going on a computer and possibly using it too much for their own good. This is until you forget what you used to know of the media and so can read the same books again, see the same films or TV shows and you can watch new documentary videos when not already knowing all of the subject matter. You just have to get out of the habit a bit of switching on your computer. Instead, you can do something less interactive. This is such as reading an old boring book, reading a novel or old textbook, looking at a picture book or sitting through a movie or regular TV news.

As well, there are therapies given for addiction such as cognitive behaviour therapy that might be the only thing that works for some people. 'They are ill and they are an addict'. As well, people really might not be able to do much of other things if already bored. Also, people should not feel ugly about themselves by trying to plan too much and trying to change their lives or the world too much. An example of this is that people touch their face, pick their nose, rub their lips, or sit awkwardly when they feel ugly. They can disfigure their faces and their bodies can become twisted. Don't let this be you! Stop now before it gets like that. And if you do something like pick your nose, put the book down or stop whatever you're doing. And do something else. Or just do nothing and don't bother with any of it. That is better than having disfigurement or any other problems.

Ugliness is sometimes from reading self-help books. Self-help books really do tell people they can change the world, make a million before breakfast, end war permanently and all wars in the world permanently, end all poverty and all ill health on the planet and things like that. And their readers avidly consume all of the self-help books that say that. They are just the people to do it or somehow they had been chosen to do it. As well, this is even if nobody chose them but themselves. Also, all they did was to take the book down and buy it from the shelf of a book store. In thinking if mysterious other people expect great things of them, some people can have a moment of ugliness. This is when they do something like pick their nose. Then, they can end up ill or disfigured.

The books say that the casual reader is some religious or messianic figure. Really, this is just what a lot of self-help books really do say! You are like god! Or you can alter the real world the way that you would like it without other people interfering. And you don't need to worry about the real world at all really. When there is no world peace, you can yourself bring peace. Or if other things don't happen but people want them to happen, then you are yourself to blame for the world's woes. Also, the only reason there isn't world peace, a booming economy or anything else, self-help books say is that the readers of their books don't just get up in the mornings a bit better and do some exercise, read more, improve their social skills, plan business success or artistic success and have some healthy cereal.

As well, what self-help books don't say is that their readers are still going to be the people they are in real life once they have read and digested these books. Yet, self-help books completely ignore this one fact in anything in them. Nobody might actually want anything from people like who their readers are. Other people don't really want some other people to do anything and nor will people pay some folk money for doing anything or pay them any attention either. And they don't want people like them to find world peace either. This is because of who they are. People wouldn't for example listen to them if they went to the same Peace conference with them. Nor would some people listen to some other people ever at all in their entire lives.

Yet, there really are other people on the planet. And they will do everything without you. Nor do they necessarily even know about you either and not like you to start with. Things such as war, ill health and poverty probably will never end so long as there are human beings in the world. Also, if you died tomorrow or became a cripple or you couldn't talk or use a computer and even if your own nurses wouldn't talk to you, the world would go on just the same much as it does now without you. This is the world would go on just the same, no different and it doesn't need you even to have ever lived or breathed breath onto your mirror in your bathroom. The world really doesn't need you for anything, to change itself for the better and nor is the world finally not going to end because you personally put in the effort. Nor did you not show other people how to stop the world from ending if you knew some method.

It is just, some people think, that if they spoke, then the leaders of the world would pay attention. The world's leaders just didn't realise people didn't want the world to end. This was before you said something! Now political leaders and business leaders know that people don't want the world to end, they will do something about it! So, it won't end. This is when some people didn't realise that you didn't want the world to end! And you thought as well other people thought the same as you. But the leaders of the world thought nobody was bothered about the world ending.

Where did you get the idea from? Nobody wants the world to end! This is except a very few people. They don't want to give up consumer goods, see the size of their economies halve, other countries are not going to join in and halve the size of their economies or whatever else the justification is for keeping going the way they are. You can listen to them but mainly they are too ashamed to speak about it. Yet, they might tell you in private that this is the real reason.

Perhaps, you should expose them! This is even if you think it sounds reasonable once somebody had explained it to you. Other people might have other solutions or tell them what they think of it themselves. You could talk about what they said if you wanted to. Or you could just shut up. Instead, you can just do your cognitive behaviour therapy or any other therapy and read any self-help books that might work. But don't take them too seriously. Instead, realise there are different people in the world. And different people say different things not all of them helpful.

Possibly, somebody who had problems instead of worrying about them could just watch some TV. Also, they could read a bit or listen to talk radio. And 'don't just watch television all the time' is good advice. Generally, the only thing you have to do is to get enough media so you have reasonable socials skills. Also, you can revise what you did at school and college if you want to. That might also improve your general knowledge and social skills. You would want it in any social situation or for job interviews that your social skills were going to be good enough. Also, people could cook, clean, exercise and get to bed a bit earlier that might really help them as well. You can also remember to budget better. This budgeting will give you a cushion of savings or a decent pension pot. As well, keep up any job skills, keep up social skills for interviews and be physically fit.

Some people say that the only thing that works to help anyone in the history of any self-help books is if they 'get religion'. Yet, for some people, there is declining religious faith. This is in some parts of the world. People might just want to do some cooking and cleaning for themselves and that can be their religion. Also, people can at least know what their religion says. This is if only out of interest. Or it is because many cultural values come from it so it is still of interest. You might also make your peace. You could if say you were to die tomorrow. Take a multivitamin. Or do anything healthily. Also, remember to take medicines from the doctor. That could save a lot of ill health.

Really, you don't want any problems feeling tired either. Almost all your problems could be from tiredness, obesity or other poor health. This is just a fact often if you know already that you are in poor health. You might be unfit or ill now. Or you worry you will be ill later. In fact, being ill or overweight explains probably why some people can't keep up. They can't keep up with their activities, have normal social skills or do goals or any ambitious. This is actually a big idea in self-help but that might surprise some people. It is just that people don't get it when they read self-help books, This is despite what many self-help books say. Possibly, they don't say it in a direct enough way. Instead, self-help books give the advice to do exercise and other health advice saying only it is very important. But it is in the part of the text that contains other things or is in the middle of the book Or it is otherwise that readers miss it. And they don't do exercise. But they try instead the other things it suggests.

'Successful people are fit people for their jobs'. Not, 'dreamers should dream their dreams'.

It used to be a classic thing to say that a computer budget might save you money. In fact, some people do have complicated budgets at home. And other people find it hard to begin even to start doing a budget. This is when they fear it is going to be so complicated. Other people make notes on paper. But eventually if not making progress, people give up. Their notes get grubby and they can't always read what they said. As well, they missed putting some things down. These were such as where they got something that was cheap. In the end, people can have loads of notebooks all written on that they find hard to read. You really might need a computer to do a budget if it's that complicated! This is if you can't seem to organize your notes properly.

Other ways budgeting is complicated is that people cannot just buy the cheapest goods in the cheapest shops. Human beings need a variety of food in their diet for health reasons. This variety is as well completely necessary in diet for survival. In terms of supermarkets or food shops, brands, processed food, food labelled as unhealthier and more expensive food will give the variety people need. Also, the cheapest is not always the healthiest product. This is for food but also for other products.

The cheaper shops may not always be the best. For example, they might be some way away and there's a cost in fuel or in bus fares to get there. As well, it could take too much time to get to any cheaper shops. This is for some people always to go to them. And it might be difficult to carry heavy items back. It would be if it was a longer way or a longer wait. Packet size may vary. And a pack may have too much or too little in it. An example of this is tinned may have too many vegetables in them for one meal. This is if you were living alone. Or it could be too little as well if cooking for more than one person. Too many tins might be unhealthy because of tin poisoning. But they could be cheaper. Tinned soup might be a lot cheaper than fresh soup. This is then not a given that they are a straight swap except one is in a tin.

Making a plan for a meal and counting the cost of all the ingredients might reveal that some meals are a lot cheaper than others are. Meal costs might be a way of budgeting for some people. Still, it was deceptive for some people when they looked at the ingredients in the shop the total cost of the meal. Or you really wouldn't generally have known it was less expensive except if you had a spreadsheet to help you.

Again, some people feel they really need a computer to solve problems that might arise from complicated considerations like these. And if they'd use their computer, they might eventually save money. This is after some trial and error and making more notes. They would make more notes after they had been on different visits to the shops so they could get more data. Or, at least, this is the technological way of saying it. You would use such data for a budget spreadsheet. Sometimes you might have heard how people save with a spreadsheet and still get all the health benefits they would have had otherwise. Really, savings can be more money than some people even dreamed of ever they could make.

People can make notes about prices and pack sizes, the quality of items and other things like that. Still, some people say it's only temporary for example that you can eat all cheap stuff. This is when your diet needs more variety. And variety means buying almost everything in the shop people say with a laugh. If you don't have variety, you could get ill. This is if you budget too much. Eventually, you will have to go on an eating binge and eat all the foods you were missing. Or it could be more serious than that and you might already have damaged your body. Again, you might then want to look up things online about health, make notes and spend lots of time on your computer. This is if you plan to save at all on your food budget or any other budget.

Yet, people who do make big savings keep it quiet! They do when they don't want to make other people feel bad they don't maybe understand computers. Or it is they don't maybe understand even basic maths. Really, some people don't still even know basic arithmetic. This is from school. And that might be why some people spend so much. Or, their friends might know about them and wonder why they can't budget. This is if they have a good job or education. So, really, they don't need the money anyway! It's somebody's little joke. It seems some people get quite good pay for not doing very much. Yet, it is enough money not just to live adequately but well. Yet, they could live in more luxury. People could if they just made a better budget. This is with all their money.

It is problematic to talk about money and budgeting to anyone usually. Really, it causes arguments over who has most money. This is except that if people have a computer, then they might have a spreadsheet program already on it they could use. So, you could just tell them to use it. Or if they did not already have a spreadsheet program on their computer, they could get one for not that much. Or even it would be free. And why if they had gotten a computer for themselves don't they think of using a spreadsheet? This is to do a budget. To some people, it seems so obvious. And it is how to save money. As well, anyone could have told them.

It could end badly though if people talk about it to their friends this 'trick' of using a spreadsheet to save money. People's friends might just be jealous. And now, they ask for money. Alternatively, many people in the past did keep budgets. Generally, they were able to save a bit. But after a while, they couldn't be bothered with it. Nor would they want to talk about it when it is old news. And that's why for some people they don't talk about it. So you just have a date with a computer manual. This is when nobody will talk about it is one joke.

In fact, some people spend many hours on computers in their homes. They have this bit of blue light in front of their face sitting at a desk in their spare room. It is almost as if they're looking into an oracle. But the future might be bleak if they keep using their computers too much. And what have they really achieved by it in the end if they had kept going? You just have a couple of hundred sheets of printed paper off your computer with typing on them. Or nowadays, these bits of paper are also online for other people to read. It was your novel! Or your series of short stories. Also, it was an attempt at emulating fiction you'd read yourself. This was sadly perhaps in better days from when you'd been a keen reader. Also, you might have emulated marketing strategies you'd read about. Or people are the targets of themselves. These are for promoting creative work. Strategies are such as giving your characters funny unusual names, a name for a series of your books or something like that. It is all a quite amusing and a harmless diversion. But it is not worth getting into poor health. This is when you use a computer to do them. Or it really would be a mild diversions to amuse yourself or to pass some of your time.

Still, it is probably good as a hobby or as a pastime for a short time. And that means it is probably mainly teenagers do it. This is after all who really is doing it. Teenagers do it because they use computers at school. Most adults don't have the time, nor the inclination and nor can they remember their creative arts from school. And this is true even of people who've been to Art College that they've forgotten it all, Most have a year later. They could not draw now for example anything decent at all. Or it would not be anywhere near the standard they had achieved whilst at Art College. Mainly, they don't try. This is unless they have a lot of time on their hands or some other reason to do it.

Today, with the Internet having been around for some time, people who have left school a few years ago can still be posting things online. This is just with continuing what they did at school. Still, there seems to be an idea that writing and art is actually childish. And pupils shouldn't do it once they leave school.. So most stop doing art. Then, they're supposed to do something adult like get a job. This job often has nothing to do with the arts. Or it does have to do with the arts and so they can put doing art or posting work online on their resume. Anyone getting such a job in the arts is you hear an exception. This that arts students usually do other jobs. One absurd thing you hear is that some people say to teenagers that they would have to have been at least a million seller online to put creative arts on their resume for any job, This is even a job working in a shop stacking shelves. No employer would be impressed by anything else. Or they would think it odd if they even mentioned it.

Also, some people get a health warning about using computers after a few years using them. Not being computer addicts but instead just regular teenagers and students, they don't ignore it. And they stop using their computers from now on. They can live healthy lives after that. It is with just some modifications in what jobs they do or other activities they do. The problem really does seem to reduce to people being addicted to computers. This is as other people are addicted to illegal drugs or have a problem with alcohol. There are programmes for addicts for all types of addictions. But in some countries this does not include computer addiction. Also, as anybody knows about addiction from reading the newspapers, addiction programmes are not always successful. And some people go back to the drug. Computer addiction may be hard to get off.

The reader might decide if the best laid plans of mice and men are likely to succeed if the person at the keyboard is an Internet addict or computer addict or just an addict. And he is not some more regular person using a computer that you probably never hear about. This is because they might actually succeed quite well after a short time. And their success is described in other words without mentioning computers. Yet, successful computer people make headlines in the newspapers every day. They don't though mention computers are a part of their success. They don't because everybody today uses one. Really, you don't even have a choice about using one. So people often mention them only when they are a problem. Every successful person today uses one. This is if anyone even has a choice about using them at all to do anything today. People might not have a choice about using computers anyway because of the economy or because they are connected by computers to other people in other parts of the world. And this might be for even average jobs. Computers are ubiquitous. And this is in almost every field of economic, organized activity or any consumer or arts activity. But some people are addicted to computers. They are addicts when others probably aren't. This is unless you say everybody is a computer addict today. Still, that might be going too far.

In a short time that computers have been around, almost everybody has a general knowledge of them. Also, in the future, people might not need telling about computers more than today anyone needs telling about print publications or television sets. There used to be television addicts. And some people said there were newspaper addicts. Possibly, the level of concern in the future might be the same for computer addicts. This is as it was about television addicts in the past. That is unless they really are different! But then, who knows if they really are...!

Andy Warhol said that one day everybody would have 15 minutes of fame. And with the Internet today and home PCs, this is now possible. People can post work online. This might be comments they leave on other people's work that is creative work or they can post their own creative work. Also, they can leave comments in online newspapers. And they can leave comments on any video they see on a video sharing website that could be any kind of video. They can join chat rooms where they talk to other people using the keyboard. These conversations are for other people to see and recorded. So you can look at them later. Alternatively, some chat rooms use instant messenger. And it is really like a science fiction film to be able to see nine heads on the television or computer screen all listening to what you're saying and you clicking on one to hear them. Much science fiction has become true. This is with what they predicted at least for computer technology if not other technologies. Things that were science fiction were such as you could direct a computer by voice commands. Another was libraries on computer tapes and not on paper. Andy Warhol was a well-known artist of his day. Now, everybody can be some kind of artist. But some people wouldn't have been able to do it before today. This is when people doing it in the past needed more qualifications than just a laptop. Or it was software or peripherals or a camera. They downloaded the software from the Internet. It cost at most a hundred bucks. Even now, these new people are still writers, artists, photographers and film makers.

Some people feel uncomfortable that the lines are today blurred. If somebody with a smart phone were to see a major crash and they started taking pictures of the dead and dying, do they have a right to do that as a photojournalist might have done in the past? This was one working for the major newspapers. What people might think of somebody doing this is such as they might have seen a movie where a journalist literally waded around people, stepping over rags and legs in the street taking close up pictures of people's faces and injuries. When the viewer labels someone as a photojournalist for a major newspaper, then it might have made it seem all right. But when it is just someone with a mobile phone who claims the same rights and says he is going to upload it online, is it then to you, the bystander or viewer, still completely reasonable? You might ask questions such as if he was genuinely intending to upload it all online. Or you might ask if his homepage had similar items. But in the end, any such questions can come to naught or people don't want to talk about it more.

This is even if the lines weren't even more blurred today about who was an artist or not an artist, photographer, film maker or anything else as well. People felt comfortable with these old labels but now worry that they are meaningless. Alternatively, people say that there are really still artists but most of them today are schoolchildren. Some people say this quite merrily but then their listeners might not feel as comfortable. Also, it could be a similar thing for film makers. In the past, a documentary might take hundreds of thousands of bucks in cold cahs to make and take months to film. You would need a team of people doing it, a gravelly voiced presenter and everything else. But now, a home PC owner can do it for almost no cost in a day or two. And he can take any other photos and films or artworks he needs from the Internet. This is if prepared to bend the rules a bit.

Instead, people had downloaded their material online. Nor do they pay for the copyright or employ a lawyer. Don't worry about lawyers not being paid! That is possibly just a joke. Alternatively, in the future, lawyers might still make money from people breaching copyright online. But this is when you hear most people are getting away with it for now. Also, how many people posting online original work can afford a copyright lawyer to copyright it for them? They might not be able to afford one. This is when it could cost several thousand to copyright even a short work.

And with China and India withdrawing from the Berne convention, this complicates it as well. Some people think that copyright today has no longer any real value. Already, some major companies for the purposes of patents are taking designs to India or China and reimporting them to the United States and after that the rest of the world. It just remains for everyone to see if this is going to be the same as well for books, movies, artworks, journal articles and photographs.

It really could just be anyone who wants to read who is reading. This is print books or online. People who read as adults, their parents taught them as children that it was a good and normal thing as well to do. This is to read when adults themselves. Other children parents taught there was something wrong with books and reading and publishing. Possibly, it is confusing who reads. But wanting to read is really who does read. Books are affordable by anyone. And this is particularly now with the Internet. Also, you have films made of famous classics and other books.

Another idea is that it is people's levels of education. Uneducated people generally watch TV. And educated people read. Again, there is a shame in blaming education for why people don't read. And this can again confuse what people know about people who read books. A lot of television for educated people is below their level. And this is in all kinds of ways it is. So, by default almost, educated people read books. But somebody uneducated may love television. This is no matter if they were supposedly well educated. Today, even college graduates can sometimes like television.

Anyone could read a book who wants to. They just have to pick it up from the bookshelves. This is from a bricks and mortar bookshop, a public library or they can go to an online store. It is just common sense. Books are about everything and written for every type of readership. Possibly, people have forgotten important ideas. Literacy and cost were the most important factors in the history of getting more readership. The cost of books used to be quite high. So, poor people couldn't always afford them. This was except from libraries. But otherwise, they wanted to read. And many people did read that could afford it. They went to the new public lending libraries if poor and they couldn't afford to buy them.

# Chapter 3, Only Plan You Need

In this chapter, there are some elements of the only plan some people might ever need.

The basic principles with computers are to take breaks, not have a large high radiation screen but have a small low radiation screen up close to you, have an ergonomic desk and chair and to use a printer. Also, you should use the software that is most appropriate for the task you're doing on it. Spreadsheets are anything for figures and word processors are for anything with large bodies of text. Art software is for painting and drawing, photo editing for photographs and video editing for videos and so on. Writers use word processors. There might also be some good smaller tips to help you other than these.

For you always to be able to save money wherever you are and no matter what you're doing, use a computer spreadsheet for your budget. To do this, you need to know basic maths and arithmetic for a simple budget. This is one where you have a fixed income and you're just buying essentials and a few luxuries for your own home and personal use and not investments on the stock exchange or any other exchange or financial product. You particularly need to do a new budget when your circumstances change. That means you don't have to do so much data entry all the time. A spreadsheet on your computer and a word processor for making notes is enough to save you a lot of money. And once you've saved it, you can spend it again! Also, you can look up budgeting tips online or get bargains online. This is enough for you always to be in money assuming your income is not too low.

Don't do only one computer hobby. Instead, try different ones. They are easy to learn from books once you have the software on your computer to try them out. Or you might have done a bit of them at school or college in lessons. Then if you do more hobbies, you don't just use one part of your brain. People don't like this if somebody is talking to them. Really, they can tell. So it is poor social skills. As well, it can make you feel ill. Also, it is better social skills to talk about more than one thing anyway. You can make the conversation last longer talking about different things. And having a bit better mind that you use more of, you might not be so addicted to computer hobbies. As well, it is more interesting for you to have more than one hobby and not just one.

Some more computer tips are below. Learn all the features of your software. Really, it is often something that surprisingly can help. When you learn all the features and use them regularly, then things are just 10 times, 100 times, or 1,000 times faster and easier. This is when you know 100 percent of the most useful features and not 10, 20, 30... 60% or 70%. As well, follow all health advice for using computers such as to take breaks, ergonomic desks and chairs and everything else. Also, you have to spend the money if you want your health to be better. This is all the best hardware, software and peripherals that you feel would be easiest and fastest for you. And you can get the office furniture that will suit you the best.

A good tip is that you never use a laptop on your dining room table or even on a computer table but you get a proper desktop computer. Also, you have a proper keyboard and mouse where the keyboard has raised rows of keys. And you can get a wave keyboard if you are a big, fat or tall person. This is better than the standard size keyboard only designed originally for typists in the 1960s. You can recycle an old laptop by plugging in a separate more ergonomic keyboard and mouse to the USB sockets.

And another good tip is that you have a smaller screen that is one that is a design with less radiation as well. LED and LCD have zero radiation compared to other televisions. But you still have light radiation, electromagnetic radiation from electricity going through it and it is not completely safe. Also, you still have to get up to stretch your legs to avoid blood clots. So you'd still need to take breaks just the same. Light radiation can give you epilepsy and particularly changing images such as in video or scrolling with the other programs. Electromagnetic radiation can give you cancer. Both of these can affect personal hygiene and concentration even without high degrees of radioactive radiation from the screen as some people had beforehand. As well, a computer desk and table and office chair can take up room that you might not have enough of in your home. And they are difficult to clean behind and attract dust at the same time. But some people think it is worth buying a smaller screen and anything else that might help them if they get just a bit better concentration that might also reduce how much time people spend on their computers anyway. As well, they could do anything on their computers that they want them for in their homes better. This is with this little extra help.

You don't want to have too much screen radiation and nor light radiation or electric magnetic radiation. Nor would you want to sit too long at a desk. So try only to use your computer for 5 hours per week generally for everyone. You can do this if you use the productivity tools of your software. And one of the most important things is still to take breaks no matter what else you do. These will speed up how long it takes to do any task you're doing on it and mean you have better concentration. You'll have better concentration from not clicking on so many buttons as well as from generally spending less time on it.

Also, you need to balance out how much you use your computer and how much you watch television. In total, you can't do too much for both. Possibly, you want to get entertainment, news, sport, and not just do a computer hobby. That means you have to make some sacrifices for the screen time you have. You do have to make these sacrifices because of the science of screen radiation, light radiation, electromagnetic radiation, flashing images that can cause epilepsy and generally all of it that can cause cancer and everything else. You can use your computer more on one day and less on other days. Possibly, you could do this if you had too many ideas in one day. This was you didn't have enough time in just an hour or two to put them all down. But on other days, you might have shorter creative ideas. Or you might have none even. So, on these days, you could watch more television. And you would watch less days you use your computer more. Then, you might get to watch a decent amount of television still and not get such bad social skills. This is together with taking breaks so you don't get poor social skills.

Televisions have just the same screens as computers. Sitting near a computer to use it, you get more radiation. But don't sit too far away that it isn't a natural distance to read or you could go blind eventually. Therefore, you want your computer screen on your desk just behind your keyboard. But you as well want a small screen that is also one that has a low radiation emission. You can however watch the television from further away. But beware when watching television from further away that you don't watch things that have a lot of text on them. This could be news programs that have it. Or it is radio stations on your television set that have a graphic. As well, it can be reading the electronic program guide, watching smart TVs or watching videos online or anything else. Scrolling graphics are bad for your eyes and the brain behind it. Catch the news on the main station when it is on. And don't bother ever with 24-hour news stations and all their scrolling and text on screen.

Nor do you want to do too much handwriting or typing as that can give you arthritis or carpal tunnel. So, you can have your computer always turned on. Or you are able to switch it on immediately and start using it. As well, keep a backup of your files. And you don't want to mislay any paper files either. A computer word processor has tools to help you write and avoids too much handwriting and rewriting or retyping of notes. A printer also helps in printing things out so you don't need to switch your computer on to read them again. This also saves on handwriting out the same things again that are already on your computer just so you can see them when they're on your mind.

You want to divide your time up between television and computers so you don't do just hobbies. Instead, you also get entertainment, news and sport that are better social skills. Possibly, about 5 hours per week on your computer is enough or you will have to juggle between the two if you can't do that. Twenty-five hours is probably too much to watch television a week said one expert recently. So if you're going to use a computer at all, you can't watch much television. Possibly, the optimum time for television anyway is about 15 hours per week. This is both to get the benefits of the TV when it can convey a lot of information but as well, your social skills are not affected by poor concentration. Watching television should be less radiation when you're further away.

To plan your TV viewing, it can be difficult for some people with so many channels and so much choice to switch the TV on the right channel at the right time. An alternative that really does help is if you don't watch too much television. That will make it generally simpler and easier. Possibly, you might only watch two shows per day. As well, because of the amount of light from a TV, it is best to watch the television in the evening. This is with the curtains drawn and lights switched off. Also, you want to avoid screen radiation, flashing images that are from moving and changing images and scrolling and other things like that. So you really do want to watch less overall. As well, you need to factor in using your computer if you do use a computer and watch less television. And you need to think what else you could do that would be better and that you might be up to doing better as well if you had better concentration.

Just watching TV in the evening and only two shows per day will simplify your plan for your TV viewing. Also, just planning to watch two TV shows will greatly reduce the amount you might handwrite. This is on paper making notes about your TV viewing or that you would type on your computer if you did the same notes. You can use abbreviations when you write channels down. A listings magazine is better for planning the week but you might want to use the electronic program guide if your listings magazine is poor for some things you're interested in. Or you could get a listings magazine that has the same interests as you. When you do make this plan, you don't want it to be unhygienic and nor bad on your hands. Nor do you want it to involve sitting a desk for too long. Planning your viewing is so that you can get more decent TV. And you have the concentration to do other activities as well. But nor do you want to have a period of time that is too long to be occupied using your computer or handwriting at your desk.

You can use a number of abbreviations. Just write the channel number you get on your television set and not the name of the channel. But you can remember what the real channel is from the number. Another example is that you don't write out the title of any show. But if you do watch it, then you can write the title in a goals notebook. There are other ways to abbreviate. You could just write the day down once. Don't write the date. But just write the day of the week. Then, just write the first two letters of the day of the week. A 2-letter abbreviation is long enough always to see which day of the week it is. You can also abbreviate to just one letter the type of show it is. An example is M for movie. And N is for news. You can write the times shorter. It can be shorter if you don't write a 'double nought' on the end. As well, it can be shorter if you use the 12-hour clock. There should be no confusion either using the 12-hour clock if you mainly watch television only in the evening. Also, keep your page in a plastic pocket so it doesn't get grubby. And just write a brief heading at the top such as 'TV'. You don't need to date it if you have no other pages that it could be. After the week is over, you can throw out the 1-page guide you've written and start again. This is after you've written down everything in your goals notebook of the titles of films and TV shows you saw.

In your goals notebook, you can have page headings for movies for example so you don't have to say it is a movie each time in case you don't remember it is. Alternatively, you could just write the series down and not each time you watched one show in a series. Also, don't write down how long each show was to count out the number of hours you've spent on goals. In any case, you won't be able to do this if you don't write a show in a series each time you watch it. You are going to use your goals notebook to improve your social skills. This is so you have a note of what you've watched when you might otherwise completely forget it. The title of a book or film prompts your memory of it. So reading again your goals notebook, your social skills should improve.

Really, you can't do all the same things all at once. Then, you will get bored. There is a difference between different media such as television, radio and reading. So do a variety of each and don't just watch television. Also, there is a difference between different television shows. Just watch any television you're not that bored with already. With books, there is a difference between formal and informal, long or short, serious or trash, modern or old classics and everything in between. Also, you have poetry and plays and not just novels and short stories. There are also many different programmes on the radio such as dramas, situation comedies, stand up comedies, phone-ins and other programs, news entertainment, culture, education and sport. Try a variety of each and don't do one that was the same just after another the same. You should try to read every day, watch only a little television every day and listen to a bit of radio every day. Also, don't neglect cleaning, cooking, washing and going out for walks, chatting to pass the time of day or doing exercise in your bedroom or living area.

But don't try to do just very little because that leads to a downward spiral of doing nothing in the end. Also, you can revise your school and college work and any subject you studied afterwards from the library or from published books. This fills up some of the time and is good general knowledge. You can also use the Internet as a gimmick to help you learn or to read more again. Or the Internet can help pep up your conversation. This might be with something other people haven't heard. But you can still just take a break or go back to bed if tired. This is better than getting anxious and going on your computer and writing or doing creative arts or other things because you have the interactivity of your computer to help you when you're feeling tired and bored. Instead, if, for example, you know you really couldn't think of anything else but what you were doing on your computer to talk about if somebody asked you, then you can just go back to bed, have a good long sleep and get up feeling better. Just a rest might improve your social skills. But beforehand, you never just went back to bed. This is when this is what would help.

Your physical health plan is under the general headings, diet, exercise, sleep, personal hygiene, taking vitamin tablets, taking medicines and illnesses you have already. Diet is anything you eat or drink. It could for example include cookery tips and books of recipes. As well, it is about healthy eating such as having less sugar and salt in your diet. Exercise is about what exercises you would like to do, places you can go for a walk and things like that. Sleep is about having a sleep inducing bedroom, things you do during the day that can help you sleep at night and having a bedtime routine in the evening. Personal hygiene is cleaning, washing and laundry. It is also about hand washing, hygiene around food and other tips. A doctor might suggest you take vitamin tablets. Or some people might take a multivitamin tablet to help them when starting an exercise program. Other people might take it when they find it hard concentrate generally or struggle with using their computers.

It is a good thing just to want to be physically and mentally active or to look physically fit and muscled. Also, it could really help you if somebody got aggressive no matter if you weren't aggressive yourself to have some muscles or know some self-defence techniques in a fight. And don't worry if people will criticise you saying that in any situation you could just say that you weren't to blame for it or something like that. You can still do exercise for this reason when it might help you just that once that could really help you out as well.

Nor is there anything wrong in wanting to be mentally or physically strong when people ending up in nursing homes are going to be abused in them. Also, nobody does anything about it. So that must show you what the government and everyone else really thinks. As well, why are there so many attractive models and pop stars with toned muscles and things to say about themselves and their professions if it wasn't something generally attractive for everyone? It must be generally attractive to everybody to have muscles, good social skills and be generally mentally and physically strong. This is for them or for anybody that knows them.

Some tips are,

Avoid too much electromagnetic radiation from electrical appliances such as watching television or standing near a boiling kettle or a cooker that is switched on.

Drinking alcohol, late nights, eating poorly, not doing the washing or cleaning or watching too much television or using a computer too much will give you brain damage. Nobody wants brain damage. So, you just don't do these things.

People are not going to tell you all the time about everything you can do for your health. But they do it for themselves. This is if they're sensible people. If you keep talking about it but don't do it, you just sound like you're silly. That's all that explains it. You haven't done of it yet and they can see that. Otherwise, they might anymore. You just have to do it and not keep asking other people.

You cannot drink at all when no alcohol is safe.

Also, you can have a smaller television or computer screen and one that as a technology emits less radiation.

A good tip is not to have a clock radio when almost everybody with a clock radio by the bed has a problem with poor personal hygiene.

Nor have a lot of stuff in your apartment or house and try to box it or bin in it if you have too much.

And just keep to every possible piece of advice for physical or mental health or doing goals.

As well, don't have too much sugar in your diet and have a glass of water if you feel thirsty instead or a sandwich if really you're hungry.

Poor sleep is one of the biggest causes of illness. And you might not need to have any poor sleep if you're not working shifts and so you have the option of getting to bed earlier.

Self-help books and therapy can really help some people and this even includes if they go on to other types of self-help books explaining what is wrong with self-help.

A 'dose' of the news can help many people stop worrying about their own private lives.

Have your computer switched on all the time so you don't hand write. Use a printer so you can read what you write when off your computer. And try to take breaks from your computer and don't use it for too long.

For anything you do that you think might be negative, try to persuade yourself of the benefits of stopping it or changing it. You can build up an argument as to why you would change it that it is not a good thing anymore or the other benefits such as the health benefits of changing it.

'Life is a work in progress. Your ultimate goal is often only to keep living as well as you can day to day. Small successes every day will amount to something bigger in the end'.

'Don't drink, take other drugs or look at naked woman. Also, don't overuse your computer or not take breaks from it. Read and don't just watch television. You have the options of TV, radio or reading and you should do all three. As well, you can go to the park, cook or have some other hobby. And make a physical health plan and a plan for what you are going to do in your spare time and keep to it. As well, keep some money in the bank. Then you should be all right'.

The End
