 
_Big Ban Theory  
Elementary Essence Applied to Nitrogen,  
the Frozen Magic Island,  
and Sunflower Diaries 4th_

_Volume 7_

By Rod Island

Copyright © 2014 Rod Island

All Rights Reserved

SmashWords Edition

License Notes: This eBook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This eBook may not be resold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to SmashWords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the work of this author.

Please check out my other books.

Big Ban Theory

5) Big Ban Theory: Elementary Essence Applied to Boron and Sunflower Diares 1st, Volume 5

6) Big Ban Theory: Elementary Essence Applied to Carbon and Sunflower Diaries 2nd and 3rd, Volume 6

["Big Ban Theory" Series]

Sunflower Diaries (UNPUBLISHED)

Sunflower Diaries: Cryptology Applied to Basic Math and Current Technology, Volume 1 (UNPUBLISHED)

["Sunflower Diaries" Series (40 Volumes)] (UNPUBLISHED)

Magical M.E. (UNPUBLISHED)

Magical M.E.: Washington Wizardry Applied to 5/29 of 2013, Volume 1

["Magical ME" Series (40 Volumes)] (UNPUBLISHED)

Big Ban Theory (UNPUBLISHED)

1) Big Ban Theory: Elementary Essence Applied to Hydrogen and the Winter's Tale of Why Valentine's Day Got Canceled, Volume 1 (UNPUBLISHED)

["Big Ban Theory" Series] (UNPUBLISHED)

* * *

[Interview with Rod Island on SmashWords]

## Table of Contents

Nitrogen 1: "Magic Island" vs. Washington State Author Missing on Mount Rainier

Nitrogen 2: Fair Use of Copyright Law Revisited

Nitrogen 3: "Frozen" vs. Elsa the Dog Cited in "Curbside Prophet" by Jason Mraz

Chapter 4.1: Mayan Calendar Date 12/21/12

Chapter 4.2: English Royalty and England as "Eggland"

Chapter 4.3: United States Shaped Like a Chicken (Rod Island Read?)

Chapter 4.4: Prince William and Princess Kate

Chapter 4.5: Royal Wedding and Mathematical Genealogy

Chapter 4.6: Don't Skip Over Prince Charles

Chapter 4.7: Newborn Baby in the Royal Family

Chapter 4.8: Dawning of the Age of Aquarius with 2012 Miss Universe Crowned

Chapter 4.9: Sunflower Diaries, Volume 4 Conclusion

Nitrogen 4: Conclusion

## Nitrogen 1  
"Magic Island" vs. Washington State Author Missing on Mount Rainier

I'm going to jump right in with the news articles from 6/21 of 2014 to 6/22 of 2014. I had said in "Big Ban Theory," Volume 5 Preface the following:

" _I'm going to sit here in my room in front of my computer with my mouth shut. I'm going to hold my breath and squeeze out Psychic Manifestations where whatever I'm thinking (and not allowed to say) will surface in the Associated Press Feed."_

The following news articles that all surface on 6/22 of 2014 is an example of me holding my breath and pumping stuff into the Associated Press Feed. I said that my Psychic Abilities are plugged into the Earth's Electromagnetic Field that will manifest a physical anomaly that is unique or rare that will get caught by the public eye of the media. That unusual news article will rise to the top of the Associated Press Feed's news aggregator and appear on Yahoo.com.

1) News for 6/21 of 2014 reports  Mount Rainier search in Washington State for the writer Karen Sykes ends with a body found.

2) Karen Skyes is a prominent outdoors writer

3) I said that I'm an author

4) I said I'm from Washington State

I claim the Washington State author surfacing on the news is pointing to me. It also coincides with news about Carmelo Anthony.

1) News for 6/22 of 2014 reports  Carmelo Anthony is going to become a free agent

2) Carmelo Anthony was born 5/29

3) I'm born  5/29 when Rhode Island and Wisconsin became states

4) I said my author name Rod Island is a play on words with the state of Rhode Island that gained statehood on my birthday

5) Today is  6/22 when Arkansas rejoined the Union after the Civil War in 1868

I claim that the news article of the missing Washington State author printed in the news hours from another news article about a sports figure born 5/29 aligns with me as a Washington State author born 5/29.

Another event that surfaced in the news is something that ties back to where we are regarding the reprinting of my volume series.

1) News for 6/22 of 2014 reports a  Dear Abby column where a Lone Star transplant longs to return to the Empire State.

2) Lone Star = Lone Starr from "Spaceballs"

3) Lone Starr was played by Bill Pullman

4) Bill Pullman was born 12/17

5) The last volume "Big Ban Theory," Volume 6 reprinted "Sunflower Diaries," Volume 2 printed on 12/17 of 2012

There's also reference to the gag order or where I've been muzzled, which is a lot like being imprisoned or taken into custody.

1) News for 6/22 of 2014 reports  murderers wander with machetes at an idyllic Philippine prison.

2) I'm Filipino

3) I said that a ban has been placed on me

4) It's like being in prison

I claim that the news about the Philippine prison with low security is a lot like me under house arrest and with a gag order. It's not as terrible as some prisons, but I'm still being held prisoner.

The crime I'm guilty of?

1) "Making up lies about the Psychic Field"

2) "Making false claims about having Psychic Abilities"

3) "False accusations claiming certain people are guilty of 2nd Degree Manslaughter through negligence and carelessness with the Psychic Field resulted in death of innocent bystanders"

However, I would point out that if it turns out that I'm correct about the way the Psychic Field works regarding my theories and can manifest Psychic Abilities, then it would mean that I was wrongfully imprisoned and punished.

To illustrate my point, the biggest news story that surfaced, which I claim is a manifestation of my Psychic Abilities projecting themselves into the news would be the following:

1) News for 6/22 of 2014 reports  "Magic Island" has surfaced on Ligeia Mare on the Saturn Moon of Titan.

2) Psychic = Magic

3) Island = Rod Island

4) I am Rod Island

5) I am Psychic

6) I can do Magic

7) I said that whatever I say and do will surface in the Associated Press Feed within 24 to 48 hours of publishing

8) Ligeia Mare = Mare = Horse

9) I said in "Big Ban Theory," Volume 2 about the song "Dark Horse" by Katy Perry regarding Magic

Some skeptics and critics will be picking apart what I said. It would be really easy since we're talking about Saturn as a completely different Planet.

" _Oh, so you want us to believe you're this powerful Psychic who caused the Magic Island on the moon of Saturn to appear?"_

Well, I've been saying that I talk to the Sun using a mathematical language. Saturn is within the Sun's solar system as her body. However, I won't go that far because people aren't ready to believe a person could have abilities that extend that far. However, I claim it's possible because of Earth's Electromagnetic Field and where the Sun has a Heliosphere that functions on the same principles.

However, to keep it simple, I would stake the claim that when it comes to the timing of the news article and events of me writing, the Subconscious Minds of the astronomers observing this phenomenon subtly suggested the name "Magic Island." It's because the Subconscious Minds of the astronomers know all about me. I had said there's a Psychic Twitter Feed that is running off Earth's Electromagnetic Field interconnecting all of us.

So it wouldn't really be that I caused anything. It's really just more sleight of hand with the Power of Persuasion where you can have the Subconscious Mind subtly suggest a name so that the astronomers would call it that.

1) Saturn = S(AT)u(R)n

2) S(AT)u(R)n = Sun with ATR inside

3) ATR = A/TR

4) A = 1st Letter = 1 = God

5) TR = Opposite of RT

6) RT = Right

7) Right = Opposite of Left

8) TR = Opposite of Right

9) TR = Left

10) Sun with ATR inside = Sun with God Left inside

11) God = Opposite of Virgin

12) Right = Correct

13) Sun with God Left inside = Sun with Virgin Correct inside (Double Negative)

I said I'm a Virgin that can talk to the Sun as a living organism. I claim that I'm "right" about the theories regarding the Sun and Earth being alive and that you can use a mathematical language. I'm Rod Island and I'm Psychic ("Magic"). So that's how you'd get a "Magic Island" on S(AT)u(R)n Moon of Titan.

News for 6/22 of 2014 reports a Swarm satellite system reveals the Earth's magnetism is weakening

The Earth is affected by what's going on in the Electromagnetic Field. The news article says that the field is weakening

" _Measurements made over the past six months confirm the general trend of the field's weakening, with the most dramatic declines over the Western Hemisphere._

" _But in other areas, such as the southern Indian Ocean, the magnetic field has strengthened since January."_

My theory is that the Earth is alive. I claim the reason why it's weakening the protection over the Western Hemisphere is because it will allow solar storms and solar flares to hit the United States harder causing weather phenomenon such as lightning and other atmospheric changes.

There's the theme of the miracle:

1) News for 6/22 of 2014 reports  baseball player J. D. Martinez reinvents himself as a "Motown Miracle"

2) J. D. Martinez was born  8/21 when Hawaii became a state

3) My stepdad is from Hawaii

4) I mentioned about Elysia whose husband was born on 8/21 for Hawaii in "Big Ban Theory," Volume 6

Some readers, who actually do believe this news is tied to me may say:

" _Wow, that's neat! Do it again!"_

1) **It's not a toy** : This isn't something you just tinker around with for fun. We're talking about a living organism. Don't go poking and prodding the Sun for your amusement or entertainment.

2) **Using energy from the Electromagnetic Field takes energy** : Tapping into the Electromagnetic Field of the Planet Earth and the Magnetic Field of the Sun to do stuff doesn't come cheap. It takes a lot of energy for the Sun to spit out a solar flare in a particular active region.

3) **The Planet Earth and the Sun aren't pets you can boss around** : The Planet Earth is a living organism. It has thoughts and feelings like humans. The same goes for the Sun as a living thing. Don't be fooled thinking it's an inanimate object just because it's 109 times the size of Earth. You just don't see it move the way humans do.

If you're waiting for me to perform another "miracle" the next day, I can't promise you that. It takes energy to push stuff through the Associated Press Feed. Don't forget that I have to type this stuff out. I've been complaining about exhaustion and where I don't get a break.

For those of you who want to know how you can reproduce what I did, I can give you an answer.

It was a half hour of hard sobbing last night.

That's right.

You heard me.

I've been grieving over the termination of my relationship with [Redacted]. I'm not even allowed to print the name of [Redacted] under penalty of law. This all happened because [Redacted] didn't believe I had Psychic Abilities and [Redacted] flew into the arms of [Redacted] who consoled [Redacted] and claimed I was putting undue stress on [Redacted] by making up stories about the Psychic Field that are "untrue."

The Sun and Earth understand Love. This theme is regarding the 2013 movie "Frozen.") In order to manage your powers, it requires Love. I said that I'm a Virgin, and when people hurt me, it counts as a "Virgin Sacrifice."

Grief can be heard. Imagine taking a sobbing Virgin and plug that person into Earth's Electromagnetic Field as a megaphone or PA System that gets projected across the entire Planet. Just loud sobbing.

Imagine what it's like for Subconscious Minds that are plugged into Earth's Electromagnetic Field as a PA System and have to listen to loud sobbing for an hour. If you're a parent who has tried to sleep and are woken up to the sounds of a baby crying in the middle of a night, you can't go to sleep.

The more powerful the emotion like Grief, the more you'll see Psychic Manifestations in the news feed.

## Nitrogen 2  
Fair Use of Copyright Law Revisited

This is going to be a special edition about Royalty since it coincides with "Sunflower Diaries: Cryptology Applied to English Royalty, Age of Aquarius, and the Incredible Egg," Volume 3 (UNPUBLISHED).

Because of the gag order under penalty of law, you can no longer download this copy. However, I took a screen capture of the original link to show that the book does exist. There are 328 people out there as of 6/22 of 2014 who downloaded a copy of it prior to 6/19 of 2014 when it was taken off the shelf.

I have the original manuscript on my hard drive. So I know what I wrote. However, the part that hurts me in regards to the Psychic Field is that if I try to cite that I said something in that book that came true, you won't be able to verify it unless you can find one of those 328 people who is sitting on a downloaded copy.

I cut and pasted the entire manuscript in this volume "untouched." However, if I try to cite that I said something in this reprinted copy, skeptics and critics will just argue that I "inserted that there just now."

The only way you'd be able to prove that I really did print something before it happened is if you lift the ban on the original books where SmashWords.com as a 3rd party source shows that no other uploads or tampering has occurred within the manuscript or if you can view a copy owned by someone who downloaded the material before the book ban.

I took a screen capture of the web link because it shows the following:

1) Date of Publication

2) Word Count

3) ISBN

4) Web Link

It's to prove that the book does exist and was printed on a particular date. It's true skeptics and critics can just claim I made stuff up or doctored this copy of the manuscript. However, I'm not going to waste my arguing that point.

Either you believe me, or you don't.

If you don't, fine. I'm not going to lose sleep over it. As I said, it's already exhausting for me having to rewrite 84 volumes all over again. Other authors get to publish their stuff and make money off them. I had to publish my stuff for free to remain under the protection of the Fair Use of Copyright Law agreement to avoid Copyright Infringement and minimize as many legal entanglements as possible.

The number 1 way you will get tagged is if you make a profit off of your work without the person's permission mentioned in the story.

Here are the reasons why I claim this falls under the protection of the Fair Use of Copyright Law.

1) **Transformative Quality - Is the new work the same as the copyrighted work, or have you transformed the original work, using it in a new and different way?** I claim it's transformative because it has been "enchanted" or become magical. The content has become imbued with Psychic Properties that it didn't have before. It's like the difference between a regular or plain sword and an enchanted sword. They're not the same.

2) **Criticism and Commentary based on factual or historical events** : By citing news articles indicating the occurrence of an event, It's okay to give your own criticism and commentary (within reason).

3) **News Reporting** : I am allowed to report the news. I will cite news articles with screen captures to show that this is when a news article surfaced in the Associated Press Feed.

4) **Scholarship and Research** : This content is written for scholarship and research. It's my research from 2004 to 2014. It's also written for the purpose of educating people on the Psychic Field.

5) **Art** : I claim that when I take screen captures of the Associated Press Feed on Yahoo.com, it would be artistic because the image itself is a representation of a Psychic Manifestation. The things within the image fall into the category of an artistic view of the time stamp aligning with the news article that passed through the news aggregator at that time. It would be like taking a picture of a train as it passes through the station.

Since this content is free, it makes it less likely to be viewed as a Copyright Infringement since I, as the author, haven't made a single dime off of any pictures.

## Nitrogen 3  
"Frozen" vs. Elsa the Dog Cited in "Curbside Prophet" by Jason Mraz

I haven't seen the 2013 movie "Frozen" because I'm too poor to go to the movie theaters. I have to wait for it to come out on television or as a rental. Of course, it's ironic since I've said that the Hollywood Industry is a multibillion dollar industry where much of the stories are based off of stuff that has happened in the Psychic Field regarding my life in the last 10 years.

I've said that it's interesting that the Hollywood Industry doesn't pay royalties to the Consciousness of the Planet as the living author that created those works. The "human" author may have died, but the Consciousness of the Planet as the co-author is still living. The Planet should actually be receiving royalties.

I read the summary for "Frozen" on Wikipedia). The character is named Elsa. I haven't seen the movie, but I know enough about it to tell you that those things are based off of actual events. That's not a fictional tale.

1) Rod = Elsa

2) Psychic Abilities = Elsa's Frost Powers

3) Rod's "Magic Island" on Saturn's Moon Titan = Elsa's Ice Castle

4) Rod accidentally harming [Redacted] = Elsa accidentally harming Anna

5) Frozen Heart of [Redacted] = Frozen Heart of Anna

6) Rod forbidding [Redacted] to be with [Redacted] = Elsa forbidding Anna to marry Hans

7) Rod's Psychic Abilities penetrating the News Feed = Elsa's never-ending winter

7) [Redacted] searching for Rod = Anna searching for Elsa

Just watch the movie, and it's a metaphor. Everything you saw in that movie is already happening. [Redacted] had a Supergirl tag. Kristen Bell, who played Anna, was Supergirl in "Movie 43." She's married to Dax Shepard born 1/2 like Kate Bosworth as Lois Lane.

By penalty of law, I'm not allowed to discuss certain parties. However, anyone who downloaded the original copies before the book ban or gag order will know who I'm talking about if you have the original copies of "Big Ban Theory" Volume 2 through Volume 4.

It's a shame to be blocked because I claim it is Psychic History. It's World History in the making as you see how events around the world start to conform. I claim that people centuries from now who are familiar with this curriculum will be shaking their heads in disbelief wondering how the people of the 21st Century missed all the signs.

I would point out that Demi Lovato who sings "Let It Go" was born 8/20 like Amy Adams as Lois Lane. Amy Adams was born in Italy.

1) News for 6/21 of 2014 reports  Pearl Jam performed "Let It Go" in Italy

2) Pearl Jam is from Washington State

3) I'm from Washington State

4) It was performed on 6/21 of 2014

5) New Hampshire became a state on 6/21

It's the birthday of the father of [Redacted]. If you look carefully, it mentions about the daughter. There are 420 Likes referring to 4/20 for "Pot." If you've read most of my literature before the book ban, you'd realize why I'm being cryptic.

If you can understand why I'm being cryptic, then you'll start to understand why the Consciousness of the Planet was being cryptic when it forged all this information over the last couple centuries.

The Planet scrambled the data for a reason. It's so that when the time came to unscramble the information, the "Laws of Man" would not be able to properly gag or muzzle information that has been configured into a mathematical format because humans don't think that way.

Humans don't think like a Planet.

The Planet knew that (ignorant) people who lack the comprehension level and education would inadvertently try to destroy information that they don't realize is being brought forth to protect them and save humankind.

When I was talking to Elysia 2 days ago on 6/20 of 2014, she was telling me that I need to dumb it down. I told her that I can't really dumb it down much further. It's like trying to dumb down the explanation of the body organs of a human being. You can only simplify them so much before you reach a point where you just can't anymore.

That's the rut that I'm in right now.

I've dumbed down this stuff as much as I can. You, as readers, have to meet me halfway. You have to stretch your minds and reach for me to create a bridge of understanding.

I can't do all the work.

I'm stretched as far as I can go.

If you can't put together the clues that the Consciousness of the Planet is a huge brain in space with the Electromagnetic Field interconnecting people as Planet-Sized Brain Cells in the same way the electrical field interconnects our individual brain cells creating the Consciousness of a human being, I'm sorry.

There's not much else I can do for you.

If you can't put together the clues that the Heliosphere surrounding our solar system behaves like the Electromagnetic Field around the Earth and the electrical field around the brain which makes the solar system alive with the Sun as its nucleus, then I'm sorry.

There's not much else I can do for you.

If you can't put together the clues that the magnetic field surrounding the Milky Way Galaxy functions like the Heliosphere for the Sun, the Electromagnetic Field for Earth, and the electrical field for the human brain, I'm sorry.

There's not much else I can do for you.

However, if you can stretch your mind and look at Earth being alive as well as the Sun where there's actually a rhyme and reason to their behavior, you'll get to meet the Sun and Earth the way I have. You'll get to talk to them. You'll get to eavesdrop on the conversation in the Associated Press Feed with the Earth talking.

The Earth is always talking.

* * *

I published "Sunflower Diaries," Volume 13 talking about the song "Curbside Prophet" by Jason Mraz talking about Elsa the Dog.

1) Jason Mraz had Zendee Rose as an opening act

2) Zendee Rose is Filipina, and I'm Filipino

3) Zendee Rose was famous for her karaoke rendition of "I Will Always Love You"

4) Zendee Rose was born 6/21 when New Hampshire became a state

5) I'm bor 5/29 when Rhode Island and Wisconsin became states

6) Zendee Rose was wearing a Superman T-Shirt

7) I said I have a Superman Software Program

8) Superman's name Kal-El means "Voice of God"

I claim that when you take my Filipino, Superman, and 5/29 Rhode Island/Wisconsin tag to align with Zendee Rose who is Filipina and wearing a Superman T-shirt born 6/21 for New Hampshire that it aligns with the Curbside Prophet.

It's talking about the Psychic Field.

The way that Zendee Rose has a powerful voice able to come across clearly when she is singing "I Will Always Love You," or I(WA)LY as ILY with WA inside, is the same way I can use a Psychic Voice to plug into Earth's Electromagnetic Field as a PA System and you'll hear it. That's why Superman's name Kal-El means "Voice of God" because you're speaking the language of God or the language of the Sun.

Planet Earth will naturally respond to the Sun as its "Maker." The same goes for the Planet Saturn and Saturn's Moon Titan that produced that "Magic Island" that was reported in the news. It's the same reason why scientists have been scratching their heads wondering why the Giant Red Spot on Jupiter is quickly shrinking. It's referring to a red S/Pot.

Sheldon in "The Big Bang Theory" says:

"You're sitting in my S/Pot."

Sheldon's actually referring to a person named "S/Pot." I'll give you a clue about how Super Bowl 46 was nicknamed the Weed Bowl because the NFL teams Seattle Seahawks and Denver Broncos represented the 2 states that legalized Pot. 2014 Miss America Nina Davuluri who attended that Super Bowl was born 4/20 for Pot.

When I refer to the Giant Red S/Pot on Jupiter, I'm referring to the redhead Mary Jane in "Spider-Man" played by Kirsten Dunst born 4/30 like Johnny Galecki who plays Sheldon's Roommate Leonard. It would be Leonard like Leonard Nimoy who played "S/Po(T)" in "Star Trek."

If T is the 20th Letter for 20 as XX in Roman Numerals for the Female DNA Strand and CK is 3rd Letter for the 3rd Sign of Gemini and K is the 11th Letter for the 11th Sign of Aquarius, then CK means Gemini Aquarius or Double Aquarius as Leo for the Sun. I said the Sun is a woman. So Spo(T) and Spo(CK) mean the same thing.

If you don't know what I just said or how I did that, you'll just have to wait till I finish republishing the rest of the "Sunflower Diaries" and "Magical ME" Series that taught how to read the mathematical Kryptonian Language. That's why Christopher Reeve played a brilliant mathematician in "Smallville" before he passed away. He was a Cryptologist. His role in that television show was in 2004 prior to "Da Vinci Code" released in theaters in 2006 explaining to people what a Cryptologist is.

## Chapter 4.1  
Mayan Calendar Date 12/21/12

It's 12/20 of 2012 and the eve of the day before the 12/21 of 2012, which was the last day on the Mayan Calendar. There are a handful of people and religious zealots that think the world is really going to end. However, I think after Y2K, 5/21 of 2012, and the pushback date of 10/21 of 2012 that today's generation where people hype the end of days, the day finally arrives, and nothing happens.

Even the smarter soothsayers, spiritualists, and psychics have learned to stay away from publicly stating the arrival of the Apocalypse for fear of being wrong and what shred of credibility they have. So what you'll usually see is where they say that the Mayan Calendar or other days earmarked for the end of the world is more about some kind of spiritual transcendence. It's the supposedly the end of one thing and the beginning of the other. It won't be something physical that you can see, but something that is intangible and more like a state of mind.

In the spirit of the supposed end of the world that arrives tomorrow, I figured I'd challenge myself and see how much material I can publish as eBooks. I figure if it's the end of the world, I might as well get as much of my literature out as possible even if nobody reads it. It's a version of personal edification where in the last lap, you gave it your all and know on the last second before the world exploded and everybody died that you knew you put in the effort.

And if it should just so happen that the world doesn't get consumed in a fireball and tomorrow as 12/22 of 2012 is just a typical Saturday like any other Saturday, then at least I have more literature out there that has been published to entertain the masses and astound the scientific community about the wonderful world of the Subconscious Collective and the Consciousness of the Planet.

Some people may wonder why I write this like a blog, and it's because I named this volume set the Sunflower Diaries. They are not meant to be seen as technical manuals, instruction booklets, or dissertations meant to be circulated throughout the scientific community upheld as fact. It's just the meandering observations of an individual who accidentally stumbled across unusual phenomenon, did some research mapping out visual cues linked to calendar dates, and documented the results in a blog.

Therefore, it's a diary. It's a journal or an account.

As far as tomorrow being the end of the world where we all die, I don't believe it personally. You shouldn't either. As far as I'm concerned, that calendar date will pass by without a hitch. Maybe there will be a peculiar news article here or there. Perhaps an unusual earthquake? Maybe a nifty solar flare that gets spit out by the Sun? Who knows? But it will be a day just like any other day.

However, whether the calendar date of 12/21 of 2012 is real or not, it changes the priority of what I want published. My volume on Cryptology applied to the Entertainment Industry and Hollywood, which I believe has the strongest evidence aligning calendar dates and celebrities got shifted to the back as a lower priority.

I decided that Volume 4 published before 12/21 of 2012 would be regarding English Royalty. I felt that it's fitting because we're talking about England as one of the oldest countries in the world. When it comes to the theme of a new world order or spiritual transcendence, I think that pointing out the pattern of calendar dates tagged to English royalty is thematic. It would hint at that them about Intelligent Design and a direction for the world to go. If you think about it, the Mayan Calendar date 12/21 of 2012 was the last known Apocalypse date on the roster.

It means that after the calendar date passes, there won't be any other dates left on the Doomsday roster where we expect the end. While that may be a relief to some, it can subtly be disconcerting to others because it means the future is indefinite. Even though the Mayan Calendar Doomsday event was to expect something unpleasant, it also signified some finality. It signified an end to something. For good or ill, it was stating that it will be over. Sometimes things being over can be better than something that just drags on indefinitely.

It's just like relationships. Have you ever been in a relationship where you really didn't know whether you were together or not? Your relationship status was unknown. It just seemed to hang there. You don't know whether to stay or leave. It's the silence and not knowing that can bring you down. If you think about period after the date of the Mayan Calendar passes, that is technically where we'll be.

What are we to expect?

The world didn't explode killing all life.

I was expecting the world not to be here on 12/22 of 2012. So I didn't plan anything for the next week because I thought we'd all be dead. So I have some free time on my hands.

Now what?

Obviously, this is a tongue in cheek passage poking fun at the Mayan Calendar craze sweeping the Internet these last couple days. However, once all the jokes get old and there are no future Doomsday dates on the docket, I do believe that people will on some level wonder what's next for humankind. The whole 2nd Coming of Jesus Christ was a disappointing flop at the turn of the century. I'd even go so far as to say that atheists were secretly hoping Jesus would show up because even if they were proven wrong at least Jesus would tell them what they're supposed to do for the next 2,000 years before the 3rd Coming of Jesus Christ.

So in the meantime while Jesus appears to be indisposed, you'll just have to settle for the silly ramblings of a starving artist Cryptologist who is going to try to tell you that Earth is alive and like a Super Computer and that if you actually sit down and map out the calendar dates to flush out a coherent pattern that could maybe hint at Intelligent Design. If humankind can determine that Earth really is alive and know that our planet has been around for 4.5 billion years, then probably it also knew what was going on 2,000 years ago.

So, like, maybe you could ask the planet directly what humans are supposed to do.

Written in Real Time

Most likely 99 percent of the readership will be reading these volume sets after 12/21 of 2012. So why write a book that you think pertains to a Doomsday calendar event where it will appear to be a moot point?

The reason why I write this in real time and wanted this published during the time that the Mayan Calendar date came to pass is because people alive today will most likely remember how they spent the last 24 hours before the end of the world. Maybe the end of the world didn't happen, but believers or nonbelievers alike will remember what they were doing on 12/21 of 2012 as they were waiting around for destruction of the planet.

For example, remembering what you were doing on 12/21 of 2012 would be like people remembering when President John F. Kennedy was shot on 11/22 of 1963. It was a major event and tragedy in human history. This book is about numbers and cryptology. If you've heard of the unusual coincidences regarding the assassination of President John F. Kennedy and President Abraham Lincoln, I would go so far as to say that the Consciousness of the Planet as a Super Computer was alive during both assassinations. Maybe the Subconscious Collective knew about the numbers that linked both presidents. Wikipedia provides a list of the peculiarities of this urban legend.

The funniest meme I've seen circulating on Facebook is the Mayan Calendar 7 Day Forecast by Les Schwab Tires that showed a 7 day Mayan Forecast for the week. It showed the first 5 days as normal. Then Friday was over 1,000 degrees with pictures of meteors. Then there was no forecast for Saturday because Earth was destroyed, meaning there is no weather to report. I thought that was funny.

The other meme that I found funny was where it pointed out that there would be a baby boom 9 months from the calendar date of 12/21 of 2012. All those children conceived around that time were the offspring of parents who were idiots because they were gullible enough to believe the Doomsday prediction. It's where the people that really thought the world was going to end all decided to have a wild party and unprotected sex resulting in a swell of births. It may sound like I'm stating the obvious, but I just thought I'd point that out for those that still didn't get the humor.

## Chapter 4.2  
English Royalty and England as "Eggland"

If there's any country that would have interesting themes regarding Cryptology, it would be country that has a rich history. England has an advantage over other countries because they have kept really good records on their Family Trees. So publishing that book before or on 12/21 of 2012 is appropriate. It all comes back to the egg.

The egg can symbolize our solar system. The yellow yolk symbolizes the yellow Sun. The egg white symbolizes the solar system. An egg within an egg would be like God within God. In the movie "Men in Black," they talk about a galaxy that is on Orion's belt, but it's really talking about a galaxy within a tiny capsule. I make reference to "Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" where Earth is a Super Computer. The human mind is a replica or a miniature version of Earth. It can also be seen as a universe where each brain cell symbolizes a galaxy. Life tends to mimic itself on all levels. So when you see a single-celled organism with a plasma shell membrane, it's a replica of the Sun with plasma and is also spherical.

Following the egg theme with God, I'll show you an example of something laid out by the Planet using the shifting to tectonic plates that took millions of years to produce. That would be England as the Mother Country. In Celtic Mythology, Goddess Danu is the "Mother of All." She's in a pregnant state. I claim the Sun in our solar system is female, not male. She's a huge fiery ovum. She's spherical. Anything that travels to it would be a male counterpart as a sperm.

Using Cryptology and Algebra, I claim that the name England was encrypted. It has remained hidden until the right time when humankind understood Cryptology, Computers, and Encryption Codes to decode the information when the time was right.

1. England = E(N)gland

2. E(N)gland = E(G)gland when N = G

3. N = Nitrogen = 7th Element = 7

4. N = 7

5. G = 7th Letter = 7

6. G = 7

7. N = G

8. 7 = 7 (True Statement)

9. E(N)gland = E(G)gland when 7 = 7

10. E(G)gland = Eggland

11. England = Eggland

When you say Eggland, you mean "Land of the Egg." E as the 5th Letter of the alphabet aligns with the 5th Sign of Leo, which is the ruling planet of the Sun. That would be God. GG as 77 would be the 77th Element Iridium, which is IR on the Periodic Table, meaning Christ. Add all the Letters of Christ together, and it's 77.

I'll make my apologies once again if this is confusing or where I seem to be throwing all these things at you. This is why a geometry proof format projected through an ordered list on an eBook is the best I can do at this time to try explaining this stuff. Your Subconscious Mind can process large quantities of data at a high rate of speed. The Subconscious Barrier that separates your Conscious Mind from your Subconscious Mind is to remove a portion of yourself that won't get overwhelmed by the amount of data streaming through the Electromagnetic Field as a Communication Grid.

As of 10/31 of 2011, there were 7 billion people on the planet. So that means there are 7 billion Subconscious Minds spitting out data into Earth's natural Super Information Highway. The manmade Internet is just like the Electromagnetic Field housing a pool of information. That's why it's necessary to filter this information.

This geometry proof where you see me substituting the Letter N as the 7th Element of Nitrogen along with G as the 7th Letter is just scratching the surface. If Cryptologists start looking at the English language and the Periodic Table with abbreviated symbols linked by Atomic Numbers this way, I promise you that you start to see the reasoning behind the configuration. You'll start to see that there is indeed a Consciousness of a Planet that spent time forging these symbols and hidden meanings.

These encrypted symbols were developed over the last 2,000 years so that when it was time to unlock the information, people who were good at math would be able to make sense of the patterns. They'd start to notice that there really is a genetic code that has been woven into the information. There really is a rhyme and reason to why they have been configured this way.

If you know that there is a pattern that spans across centuries, you automatically rule out humans behind this. It's because the average human doesn't live past 100 years. Even if you had an organization that attempted to forge these patterns, they are too complex and woven throughout history all over the planet. No human organization could have had the manpower and resources over the last 500 to 800 years to pull something like that off.

So you are left with the idea that it must hint at the Consciousness of someone or something that has been around for centuries, if not longer. The only entity I can think of that would fit the bill would be the Subconscious Collective as the Consciousness of the Planet.

Who else could it be?

There's no one around that could live that long. It has to be the planet fiddling with history. Scientists remaining in denial about this while attempting to conduct experiments to further their advances in all sciences would be folly. The results are contaminated if they don't factor in that the planet can tweak the results. Minor changes to the experiment can cause the results to be way off.

God's AVE the Queen

The reason why I said AVE is because the 1st, 22nd, and 5th Letters spell 1-22-5 or 12/25 for Christmas Day. If Jesus is female as depicted in "Da Vinci Code" with Audrey Tautau, she would be a Queen, not a King. So you would say "God's AVE the Queen." Ave Maria would be the 12/25 Maria or Virgin Mary.

If G is the 7th Letter and D is the 4th Letter, then 7/4 would be when North Carolina rejoined after the Civil War. If O symbolizes Zero and 1 symbolizes God since God is in everything and 1 divides evenly into every mother, then the the O in G(O)D would phase out. You would be left with 7/4. So technically, Independence Day in the United States as a calendar date would spell GD or G(O)D.

The tallest elevation on the planet is Mt. Everest that was climbed on 5/29 of 1953. It was named after George Everest born 7/4 of 1790. If Mt. Everest is blade symbol in "Da Vinci Code" and the tallest one of its kind on the planet, that's the male aspect. If it was named after a state date historical figure representing North Carolina and Independence Day as well as 5/29 for Rhode Island as "IN RI" for "King of the Jews" or "In Rhode Island" along with the God Particle for the Higgs Boson with Peter Ware Higgs born 5/29 of 1929, then that's the state date pattern. The counterpart would be Sir Edmund Hillary.

I wish I could go into the song "Ray of Light" by Madonna. She makes reference to a zephyr in the sky. "Oingo Boingo" lead singer Danny El/F-Man (God Virgin Male) who sang "Weird Science" from the soundtrack (YouTube Video here) was conceived on 5/29 of 1953 when Sir Edmund Hillary reached the top of Mt. Everest.

The Heart of Gold mentioned in the song is like the Heart of Gold in "Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" by Douglas Adams. Do you know why God would be a girl?

1) G(OD) = G(IRL) when OD = IRL

2) OD = Overdose

3) Overdose = Too much of

4) IRL = In Real Life

5) G(OD) = G(IRL) when Overdose = In Real Life

As an Algebra equation, it's saying that when there is too much reality or people being too serious, that's an overdose. God will surface. Wouldn't you agree that science is running amok unchecked with no one smart enough to contest what they say about how God doesn't exist?

Their beliefs are told from a non-mathematical perspective that doesn't factor in Cryptology applied to the concept of Earth as a Super Computer with a linguistic operating system. If I wanted to show humankind its existence, I would tell people to compare the Super Intergalactic Highway that cut through our solar system in the book destroying Earth is happening conceptually.

If your mind is a replica of the Milky Way Galaxy, the brain cell that housed Earth is our solar system. Someone somewhere else okayed construction on the Super Intergalactic Highway unbeknownst to the people of Earth. What made it absurd was that while it's true you could file a petition, you need warp travel and the ability to travel across other solar systems to file said petition.

So plans were made to destroy the solar system to make way for construction. Just before Earth was destroyed like on the eve of 12/21 of 2012 as the end of the world, Ford Prefect played by Mos Def born 12/11 of 1973 drags Arthur Dent out of his house about to be demolished and has them leave the planet before it is destroyed.  Indiana became a state on 12/11 of 1816. They make their way to Helen Mirren born 7/26 as Deep Thought.

The Heart of Gold was hijacked by Zaphod Beeblebrox. The Improbability Drive functions just like a search engine. Notice that the Improbability Drive will be at all points in the Universe simultaneously before landing on the desired location.

That's a search engine.

If every host server connected to the Internet connects to the Internet, the Internet is the Universe. The Subconscious Collective is the same way as another plane of existence. If each human being emitting a homing signal that allows them to plug into the wireless Internet communication grid of the Electromagnetic Field, that's another type of universe.

If your human mind is a teeny weeny microscopic version of Earth with its Electromagnetic Field, but instead you function off an electromagnetic field, you've got a teeny weeny Internet running off your brain where all your individual brain cells are like stars or individual solar systems.

Life mimics itself on all levels.

You need the metaphors of the Planet and the Internet to perceive this. I wouldn't have learned this if it wasn't for my American public education system nurtured by Western Civilization thinking that other countries are trying to destroy.

So like Slartibartfast, I come to you and say, "Oh, I see you destroyed the Planet." It means that for atheists or non-believers in God where their mind is the Universe where there was one individual brain cell symbolizing our solar system with a tiny Earth, people "erased" the memory of that chip with Earth and built a Super Intergalactic Highway because they thought that the concept of God/Earth is just a myth or a fantasy.

So in this book, I pull you aside and say, "Okay, let's reconfigure your mind as the Universe and reinstall the copy of Earth where you used to believe that it really did exist and God was real. I show you how wonderful Earth is.

Do you know why dolphins are the smartest mammals on the Planet?

It's because their linguistic operating system is always saying "E! E! E!" When you say E as the 5th Letter aligning with the 5th Sign of Leo with the ruling planet of the Sun, the dolphins are continually speaking about the Sun as our God.

So when you hear me repeatedly talking about Earth and the Sun alive and you could just condense it into an animalistic monosyllabic word like "Moo," "Woof" or "Meow" by cow, dog, and cat, I say "E!E! E!"

Sun Sun Sun!

God God God!

Just like the dolphins that were sitting around enjoying buckets of fish, I noticed the Super Intergalactic Highway about to be paved through Earth, and said, "Wow, I better pack up and leave." So the dolphins left and said, "So long Tom and Hanks (Cryptology/Robert LAN-LG/Don) for all the Fish!"

Virgo is the 6th Sign. Pisces is the Fish opposite. Since most people have already lost their Virginity early in life, they're not Virgos. They're Pisces Fish.

So I drop a hint and say you should probably look into Cryptology and "Da Vinci Code" with Tom Hanks born 7/9 for South Carolina and Louisiana, author Dan Brown born 6/22 for Arkansas, and director Ron Howard born 3/1 for Ohio and Nebraska for clues.

The answer is 42 because the 4th Letter and 2nd Letter would be DB for Database. When you ask why something on Earth is that way, the answer is 42. It's Database. It means that was what the Sun chose and input into the database of Earth as a Super Computer.

When people ask why your laptop or computer is configured the way it is with a particular background, file system, and applications, you say 42. Because that's what you, like God over your own domain of your laptop, chose.

The name England has been around for centuries. If the name England was made a long time ago, it's hinting that some other Force or sentient life form fiddled with the name. The only rational explanation I can come up with would be the existence of the Subconscious Collective serving as the Consciousness of the Planet. If Earth is a Super Computer and was configuring the names of landmarks, it would have stored this information with a plan in mind housed in humans as planetary brain cells.

The Subconscious Minds of those people would pass the information on to the next Subconscious Mind with the same tags or to a child so that the data is preserved. That would mean using people's minds as storage facilities for information so that an important event isn't forgotten. One of the best movies regarding preserved data is "Men in Black 2" where Agent Kay neuralized himself to forget the information but he left a bunch of complex clues that he could figure out if he ever needed to.

The memory of a planet is a lot like the character Lucy in "50 First Dates" where she forgets everything in her short term memory. That's the equivalent of generations of humans who are born, remember things, and then they die. The memories have to be preserved so the Earth has to find a way to transfer the important data before the Subconscious Mind of the person with important memories shuts down (dies). That data preservation needs to be encrypted and set aside for future data retrieval when the time comes.

In the movie "Men in Black 2," Will Smith's character Agent Jay asks why Agent Kay would go through this convoluted process. It's done to protect the secret. It's an important secret. In another section of this book, I talk about Facebook and mutual friends. Just because one of your friends you trust is a mutual friend of someone asking to be your friend on Facebook doesn't necessarily mean that person is trustworthy.

Humans are naturally nosy. Look at how the paparazzi pry into everything. They follow celebrities around. Imagine if humans prematurely uncovered this encrypted data by the planet without being properly prepped and had everything explained to them. If this encrypted information was discovered too early, it could fall into the wrong hands. It could get uncovered by bad people who, upon reading and transcribing the information, may not want the status quo to change. If they found it before the good people of Earth realized what it was, they'd destroy the information so that it never gets discovered. When that happens, it's business as usual.

If the Consciousness of the Planet attempting to pass on this information to humankind is silenced, it's like being held captive where you're gagged and muzzled. Mother Earth would be held prisoner or captive. That's why it's so important that the good people of Earth invest in their education. Study your math, science, computers, and technology so that you don't get duped or fooled by sly or sneaky people that will try to mess with your head and confuse you. Bad people will try to exploit the masses by taking advantage of ignorance. Humankind suffers when people neglect their education and allow themselves to be led around by the nose by the bad people who studied and became smart.

Some people think that this is just a book about some interesting theories. However, it's a lot like the scene in "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" where the dad tells Indy to go to Berlin to fetch the diary that Elsa took. Indy doesn't understand what is so important about the book. The father says that the clues to passing the 3 tests are in it. Indy asks why the dad can't just remember it off the top of his head. The dad says that the reason why he put it in the diary was so that he wouldn't have to remember. This is something kind of like the diary of Dr. Jones

Indy says he doesn't understand why fetching the diary is so important because it means going right into the heart of Germany crawling with Nazi soldiers that will capture them on sight. The dad says that the search for the Grail isn't just about a cup. It's the battle between Good and Evil. It's about power. You don't want that power to fall into the wrong hands.

Information is power. This information is powerful. It can change the world. It can change how people view the world. It can put a stop to war, hunger, and social problems that plague today's society. However, there are some organizations currently in power that wouldn't want this information distributed because it could unseat them from power.

If you tried to publish a book like this 30 years ago or even 10 years ago, it could easily get buried or covered up. It's even documented online.

1. There was an assassination attempt on 5/13 of 1981 on Pope John Paul II by Mehmet Ali Agca

2. Mehmet Agca = Initials MA

3. MA = Mother

4. Mehmet Ali Agca was born on 1/9

5. Connecticut became a state on 1/9

6. It was on the 64th Anniversary of when the Virgin Mother was seen on 5/13 of 1917

7. 1981 – 1817 = 64

8. 64 = 6th Sign/4th Sign = Virgo/Cancer

9. Virgo = Virgin

10. Cancer = Eternal Mother

11. Virgo/Cancer = Virgin/Eternal Mother

12. Virgin/Eternal Mother = Virgin Mother

That was a mathematical sign. The Vatican, aware of the coincidence regarding the 64th anniversary, may have buried the information because they didn't want to create panic. It would look bad for the Catholic Church if it looked like they didn't heed the 3rd Prophecy. They were able to cover it up in 1981 or bury it with no one knowing because:

1. You didn't have the Internet that reports things worldwide every 4 hours

2. You didn't have the database of calendar dates available to the masses so they didn't know what happened on 5/13 of 1917

3. Twitter and Facebook for instant worldwide communication between the masses didn't exist

4. People don't bother to look at calendar dates

Even now, people reading this book still don't see the significance of calendar dates. That's why we're still in a very fragile time period. This information could still get buried. It could get covered up or people can get silenced.

What's sad is that I've tried to pass this information on to others for 8 years. I once tried to post this information in 2006 on a MySpace Cryptology Group. My posts got deleted and marked as spam. I've been constantly ridiculed and criticized about how absurd my research is just because I don't have a degree from an Ivy League school. There's a difference between a theory in a book and actually practicing it. I put my theory into practice every day as I transcribe the daily news feed every 4 hours.

If I wanted to mathematically prove that the Sun is female, I'd go in the other direction with the name England.

1. England = En(G)land

2. G = 7th Letter = 7

3. N = Nitrogen = 7th Element = 7

4. En(G)land = En(7)land

5. En(7)land = En(N)land

6. En(N)land = Ennland

7. Ennland = E-NN/Land

8. E = 5th Letter = 5th Sign = Leo = Sun

9. NN = 2 x 14th Letter = 2 x 14 = 2/14

10. 2/14 = Valentine's Day = Love = Venus = Female

11. E-NN/Land = Sun Female Land

12. Sun Female Land = Land of the Female Sun

It means that England would be a land belonging to the Female Sun. I claim that the Sun, as God, is female. To prove it, I would suggest you look at the female ovum that is shaped like Earth or the Sun as a sphere. A male sperm is tinier than an ovum. Pictures of an ovum under a microscope will show the sperms squiggling around the surface attempting to penetrate the ovum. If the sperm symbolizes the male and is smaller, then logic would dictate that if the Sun as an entity that created our solar system is spherical like an ovum, then it would be female.

Because this section was transplanted from an original 250 page manuscript, it got separated from my section on Alan Turing, mathematical biology, and morphogenesis. At this point, I don't know when I will get to that section or what volume it will be grouped with. I just wanted to make note of this in case people are wondering why there seem to be choppy sections talking about eggs and where I seem to hop around.

Many of these chapters got fragmented from the original manuscript. Because I chose to write about English Royalty, I selected the section on Prince William and Princess Kate and grouped it with the section about England that can be unlocked to mean Eggland.

I try my best to smooth out the chapters, but I'm under time constraints because 12/21 of 2012 is upon us. I still have to clean up the manuscript for publication and do book cover art.

Some people may wonder why I seem to jump in and out of my narration. I've mentioned how this volume set is configured more like a diary and not like a research paper being submitted to a science journal.

On top of that, it's just the calendar date in general of 12/21 of 2012. It's like a window of opportunity. I know the world isn't going to physically end on today's date. I just want to make sure my literature is published by this date. It's a date that will never come again. Once it's passed, that's it.

In Cryptology, you'll find that something that was mostly completed that landed on a specific calendar date has more meaning than something that arrived too late. These dates matter. When you turn in a research paper, it has to be turned in before the deadline, not after. When you take a final exam in college and have to finish before the class period is up, you turn it in whether it's finished or not if you want credit.

Maybe there are no official or hard deadlines for publishing an eBook, but for one that is about the Mayan Calendar Date on 12/21 of 2012, you kind of want to have it completed on time and before the deadline. If it was a book on any other topic that wasn't about a specific calendar date, then it's okay if the publication date is pushed back. Just not this one.

## Chapter 4.3  
United States Shaped Like a Chicken (Rod Island Read?)

I discussed in a previous section morphogenesis with the analogy of the chicken. Now we're going to take the same discussion about the chicken and the egg and apply it to history and geography. As I said, there's a debate on which came first, the chicken or the egg. The debate is still out on that. However, if we look at world history, England came before the United States. The United States seceded from England as the 13 Colonies. If the United States is shaped like a chicken and came after England that symbolizes the "Land of the Egg," then I would make the assumption that the Consciousness of the Planet as Earth claims that the Egg came before the Chicken.

The Chicken symbolizes the finished product or a final stage. The Egg remains consistent. Things that hatch from the Egg may not look like a Chicken, but the Egg is still an Egg. You can have partial evolution. For example, if one parent providing genetic code is seeking a compatible match, it may already have all the genetic code needed to make a chicken. However, if it couldn't find the perfect match, it may mate with something that is able to make part of the chicken but is missing some of the shape like the wings and the tail.

When you look at human deformities, it means that something went wrong while the embryo was developing. That could be a result of defective genes or incompatibility. However, scientists know what the embryo was trying to build. Something just went wrong with the construction process. So the complete form was never fully fleshed out.

In another section of this book, I talk about Alan Turing's research on morphogenesis tied to mathematical biology. For now, I'm going to talk about Political Morphogenesis with the United States as the Chicken. It requires the political borders of Mexico and Canada to cut the shape on the top and bottom. You need Canada to form the head of the Chicken. Then you need Mexico to cut what resembles the thigh or legs of the Chicken. The political borders were dependent on the wars and political ties that shaped the United States, Canada, and Mexico. I claim that the Consciousness of the Planet had a hand in crafting the political borders to cut the shape of the Chicken that it wanted.

The Consciousness of the Planet was always there while the generations of humans that fleshed out the history of events were influenced by their Subconscious Minds taking direction from the Subconscious Collective as the Consciousness of the Planet. It took about 400 years to hammer out what would unfold between these 3 countries. No humans live that long. So it had to be a consistent Force or entity that supervised this process. The most logical conclusion is a living planet.

I claim the reason why the Vatican Church is in Italy is because that country is shaped like a boot. You boot up a computer. If Earth is a Super Computer, then you'd boot it up. You have to K(IC)K it. KK is 11/11 as the 42nd State of Washington, which is 42 as the Answer. IC is 93 symbolizing the 93-million-mile distance between Earth and the Sun.

I should save this for the volume on cryptology applied to music, but I'll include it here to drive the point home about state dates and words as acronyms.

1) I claim that Kick is an Acronym

2) The 1987 Album "Kick" was by INXS

3) INXS = In Excess

4) Bass guitarist Garry Gary Beers was born on 6/22 of 1957

5) Arkansas rejoined the U.S. after the Civil War on 6/22 of 1868

6) Drummer Jon Farriss was born on 8/10 of 1961

7) Missouri became a state on 8/10 of 1821

8) Tim Farriss was born on 8/16 of 1957

9) Singer Madonna, meaning Virgin Mother, was born on 8/16 of 1959

10) The band made their debut on 8/16 of 1977 on the day Elvis Presley died

11) Saxophonist Kirk Pengilly was born on 7/4 of 1958

12) North Carolina rejoined the U.S. after the Civil War on 7/4 of 1868

People will want to know how Michael Hutchence who was born on 1/22 of 1960 and who committed suicide on 11/22 of 1997, factors into cryptology with music since he was the lead singer. I would point out that it was the same day, which was the 22nd. It's the Letter "V" for the Chalice. 1/22 is the birthday of Bill Bixby as the Incredible Hulk, who is opposite of Superman in Amalgam Comics. 11/22 is the day that John F. Kennedy, born on 5/29 for Rhode Island and Wisconsin, was assassinated.

The launching of INXS on 8/16 of 1977, on the exact day that Elvis as "the King" of music died and on Madonna's 19th Birthday, is symbolic. The 19th Letter is S for Superman in opposition to 1/22 for Michael Hutchence linked to the Hulk. The Hulk gets his power from anger. It's when people make him mad. Superman symbolizes goodness and doing what's right. My interpretation is that when the Virgin Mother (Madonna) is INXS (in excess or overdone), it's time to "Kick" or remove, resulting in the death or removal of "the King" or who is in power.

I'm trying my best to keep this simply restricted to a book establishing a case that Earth is a living organism that has been fiddling with human history. However, I'm barely scratching the surface about what I know. I'm just showing you Kindergarten Cryptology. When you start doing more advanced application of cryptology tied to mathematics and computer software programming with Earth as a mainframe computer, then you start getting into Global Positioning Systems (GPS), weather phenomenon, and cryptanalysis tied to seismology.

Actor Steve Carell was born on 8/16 like singer Madonna. Madonna is the Virgin Mother, was Brick Tamlin in charge of weather in "Anchorman." When you start applying cryptanalysis to the paths of tornadoes, you'll find that there's a mathematical selection that occurs with the location where tornadoes appear.

The tornado that touched down on 1/23 of 2012 in Birmingham, Alabama had officials scratching their heads. They had never seen a tornado that early and where it touched ground for 2 hours straight. On the very same day that tornado hit, the oldest Federal Judge Wesley Brown died at 104 years old.

1) Wesley Brown was born on 6/22 of 1907

2) 6/22 = 622

3) 622 + 104 = 726

4) 726 = 7/26

5) Carl Jung was born on7/26 of 1875

6) James Lovelock was born on 7/26 of 1919

The concept of God is usually associated with someone really old. God is associated with Justice or being a Judge. That's why they talk about Judgment Day.

1) The tornado touched down in Alabama on 1/23 of 2012

2) AL = Postal Abbreviation for Alabama

3) AL = Opposite of LA

4) LA = Los Angeles = City of Angels = Heaven

5) AL = Hell

6) 1 = 1st Letter = A

7) 23 = 23rd Letter = W

8) 1/23 = AW

9) AW = Opposite of WA

10) WA = Postal Abbreviation for Washington

11) Washington = 42nd State = 42

12) 42 = Answer in "Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy"

13) WA = Answer

14) AW = No Answer

15) AW AL = No Answer Hell

I claim this interpretation is referring to "Mathematical Sin." It's where people remain indefinite. God would symbolize 1. The number 1 divides evenly into everything. Its counterpart is 0 (Zero). Anything divided by Zero is undefined. If God as Judge "defines" as 1, then Zero would be Anti-God.

## Chapter 4.4  
Prince William and Princess Kate

The marriage of Prince William and Princess Kate on 4/29 of 2011 was a major event that the world could witness on the Internet. Everyone around the world got to see it happen. That's how much the Internet has changed our lives. The wedding wasn't just printed in the papers. You could also go online and watch it for yourself.

1. Prince William was on born 6/21 of 1982

2.  New Hampshire became a state on 6/21 of 1788

3. Princess Kate was born on 1/9 of 1982

4.  Connecticut became a state on 1/9 of 1788

5. Their engagement was announced on 11/16 of 2010

6.  Oklahoma became a state on 11/16 of 1907

Prince William and Princess Kate were born on US state dates and they also got engaged on a state date. The royal wedding was big news. The news for 4/1/2011 reported that Princess Kate Middleton is related to Ellen DeGeneres and Francis Scott Key (Neville, 2011).

1) Ellen DeGeneres was born on 1/26 of 1958

2) Michigan became a state on 1/26 of 1837

3)  Virginia rejoined the U.S. after the Civil War on 1/26 of 1870

4) Francis Scott Key was born on 8/1 of 1779

5) Colorado became a state on 8/1 of 1876

So the news revolving around them reveals in Princess Kate's lineage that she's related to 2 famous people born on U.S. state dates. And it doesn't end there. According to the Daily Mail reports, the  first person asked to be a bridesmaid for the wedding was 7-year-old Lady Louise Windsor. Louise is the daughter of Prince Edward, the youngest child of Queen Elizabeth II, and a first cousin of Prince William (Varin, 2011).

• Lady Louise Windsor was born on 11/8 of 2003

•  Montana became a state on 11/8 of 1889

The tidbits of information above were naturally overlooked but when scanning for Intelligent Design or planetary patterns, I would submit them as significant.

Lady Louise suffers from a condition known as exotropia, which causes the eyes to turn inward. When you look inward, the line of sight forms an apex. If Montana is Spanish for "mountain," that's like the blade symbol in "Da Vinci Code." The counterpart would be the exotropia that causes her line of sight to form an invisible chalice.

Using Cryptology applied to religion, notice that the Virgin Mother was the visible parent. God was technically the invisible parent. No one ever really saw God. If the mountain for Montana is visible, that would be the Virgin aspect. God would be the line of vision with Lady Louise Windsor's exotropia. It's something you don't see, it's just there.

So you could argue that Lady Louise Windsor's exotropia is symbolic of being touched by God or a symbol of God. Some people may find that peculiar, but it makes sense in our world today. Skeptics and scientists laugh at a lot of things that seem stupid on the surface. However, if you used Cryptology to decode the seemingly idiotic behavior or seemingly stupid incident, that's the way the Subconscious Collective tries to explain things.

In my volume on Cryptology applied to Hollywood and the Entertainment Industry, I'll cover a section regarding movies the public panned as terrible. However, if you applied a decryption code to the box office bombs, you'll find there was a reason why the movie did terribly. Sometimes, in order to explain things that happen in the Subconscious Collective swimming in the Electromagnetic Field that is non-physical, it's necessary to use nonsensical scenes that look silly in our reality but would make sense on the other side.

As for Lady Louise Windsor, it will be up to her to decide whether she wants to have that exotropia fixed. If she doesn't, it's okay. I would say that if there are other children around the world that have exotropia and other kids are making fun of them being cross-eyed that they can know that it's a symbol of the planet's union or relationship with humankind. It has to look inward.

When you look at plants that are asexual or have to self-pollinate, they have to look inward and inside themselves to germinate. When it comes to the Intellectual Plane of higher learning and human evolution, humans have to look inward and use their Mind's Eye to understand and internalize the information in order to see. From that realization, that is where you get the birth of new ideas.

You have to look inside yourself. For example, with my volume set, I can tell you everything about Cryptology. However, I'm an outside source. To really understand Cryptology, you have to internalize it. It has to come from within. You have to let Cryptology in. If you are like a skeptic that has a wall or block put up where you won't let it in, then it doesn't matter what I say. It doesn't matter if I give you all the best evidence the world has to offer.

I'll try to establish credibility and prove to you that I do know what I'm talking about.

Ken Jennings was the longest running "Jeopardy" contestant. He's from Washington State. He was born 5/23 of 1974.  South Carolina became a state on 5/23 of 1788. It's that state date theme. I'm from Washington State and born 5/29 when Rhode Island became a state. The God Particle is linked to Peter Ware Higgs born 5/29 of 1929. "Jeopardy" is a show about Intelligence and how much you know.

Maybe the reason why Ken Jennings is born on 5/23 of 1974 is because he was hand-selected to become the "Jeopardy" champion noted for the longest streak of getting the right answer. Just like Ken Jennings from Washington State and born on a calendar date, maybe it's hinting that I'm just like Ken Jennings where I'm answering questions and getting the answer right. All these theories I lay out in this volume set are like "Jeopardy" answers where I got the answer right.

I was watching the "Jeopardy" competition with IBM's Watson. Watson's final tally was $77,147. It's 11021 x 7. Ken Jennings wrote on his answer, "I for one welcome our new robot overlords." If you think of Earth as a Super Computer and technically akin to God, that would be like a robot overlord.

The scores on "Jeopardy" are easy to fix. The Consciousness of the Planet, as the Subconscious Collective, will send instructions to the Subconscious Minds of the "Jeopardy" crew that determines what questions will be put on the board. Then the Subconscious Minds of the contestants arrange themselves so that they'll be on the show at a specific day and time.

The Subconscious Minds of the contestants already know what the questions are on the board and the answers. However, what Subconscious Minds of contestants will do to fiddle with the scores is use nervousness and forgetfulness to delay the answers so another contestant beats them at the buzzer. That's how you can manipulate the "Jeopardy" scores.

I can cite 3 examples on "Jeopardy." On 3/16 of 2007, there was the first ever 3-way "Jeopardy" tie posted on YouTube. The final tally for the 3 people was $16,000 each. 3 contestants, $16K on 3/16. It's 3/16 on 3/16.

Then on 3/16 of 2011, there was the 1-person Final Jeopardy contestant. The other 2 contestants landed in the negative so they were disqualified leaving only one. It was the same day of 3/16.

When "Jeopardy" aired on 3/16 of 2012, I made sure to watch it because I was pretty sure something unusual was going to happen on that episode. It did. The contestant Sharla Zwirek of Medway, MA was slated to be locked out of Final Jeopardy because she was in the negative. However, the celebrity judges reversed the decision on one of her answers putting her back on the plus side so she could participate. The streak that was broken was how long only one person could get the Final Jeopardy answer correct. Both John Erier and Hannah Specter got it right.

This is an example of how to be an observant Cryptologist watching the numbers and dates. Nobody pays attention to them. So they pass people by. "Jeopardy" is one of the best places to look for because the episodes are pre-taped. So when you see a pre-taped episode of "Jeopardy" air where the questions align with what manifests in the Associated Press Feed that very day, you're looking at the Subconscious Collective fiddling with events. I would also point out that "Jeopardy" announcer Johnny Gilbert is born 7/13 of 1924.  Alabama rejoined the Union after the Civil War on 7/13 of 1868

Now what does this all have to do with royalty?

Well, I've been pointing out state dates. Announcer Johnny Gilbert is born on a state date. "The Price is Right" announcer was Rod Roddy. I point that out because that's my name and I'm of royal blood. The host Bob Barker is born 12/12 of 1923 from Darrington, Washington. He's from Washington State like me and Ken Jennings. Pennsylvania became a state on 12/12 of 1787. So Bob Barker is a state date baby like me and Ken Jennings.

Ken Jennings welcomed the new robot overlords. That cultural reference aligns with "Simpsons" Episode #5.15 "Deep Space Homer" that aired on 2/24 of 1994. In that episode, Homer goes into space and ants walk across the video camera looking like giant ant aliens. Kent Brockman says, "I, for one, welcome our new insect overlords." In that episode, Homer is the only employee who has never won the "Worker of the Week" award. He thinks he'll win it that week, but instead, Mr. Burns gives the award to the "inanimate carbon rod."

Homer uses a rod to rescue the shuttle. However, instead of being credited for his work, the news press celebrate the rod that even gets a ticker tape parade. That would link to Rod Roddy.

So once again, you ask, "How does this have anything to do with Royalty?"

Well, if you do your research on the origin of the quote, it's from "Empire of the Ants" by H. G. Wells. The top billing or main actress in the movie is Joan Collins born 5/23 of 1933 from London, England. She has the same birthday as Ken Jennings who was quoting that movie she was in. Both of them are born on 5/23 when South Carolina became a state.

That quote about welcoming new overlords to take over the world is referring to rulers and monarchy. The word "rod" means "ruler." I would claim that the Subconscious Mind of Ken Jennings knew about Joan Collins born 5/23 for South Carolina and his birthday when he wrote that on his Final Jeopardy Answer. If you can see how Subconscious Minds can influence things.

I guess the question now is whether you believe my story when I tell you that you have a Subconscious Mind that is your twin. Do you believe that this twin of yours that shares all the same memories and knows all your dirty secrets is plugged into Earth's Subconscious Collective via the Electromagnetic Field?

It reintroduces that old wive's tale that "God is watching over you." It's where the Subconscious Mind can use your own eyes and ears as live streaming webcam video feed that records and uploads what you do through the Electromagnetic Field to Subconscious YouTube that can be viewed by billions of Subconscious Minds.

You may not believe it, but I believe it. When you know that everything you do is being recorded by your eyes and ears behaving a like a bank security camera watching, you behave better. When you know there's a security camera trained on you, you are less likely to lie, cheat, and steal because you know it's all being stored and recorded.

When you lie to your parents as a teenager, the Conscious Mind of your parents may not know, but the Subconscious Mind of your parents know exactly what you did. You have all these kids in school bullying others thinking nobody saw them do it. It's all caught on tape by the Subconscious Mind.

## Chapter 4.5  
Royal Wedding and Mathematical Genealogy

Princess Kate is older than Prince William by 5 months. The age difference, where the female is older than the male, is significant. Both of them were born the same year (in 1982), while New Hampshire and Connecticut both joined the same year (in 1788), which was 194 years prior to Prince William and Princess Kate's birthdays. They were 6 years short of the 200th anniversary of those states. The 6th Sign of the Zodiac is Virgo for the Virgin. It means without the Virgin. They got engaged on a state date. I claim this is a hint of the Consciousness of the Planet doctoring the numbers.

The Internet was not around as a major appliance in American households in 1982. The United Kingdom may have kept the records of Prince William. The birth records of Princess Kate may have been recorded but no one except the Subconscious Collective knew. Like breeding horses, I claim that Prince William and Princess Kate were destined to meet. Their state date birthdates were already marked. On that fateful day when Prince William laid eyes on Princess Kate, that was a choreographed or staged event where the Subconscious Mind of Princess Kate coordinated efforts with the Subconscious Mind of Prince William so that they'd be there at the right place at the right time. All the conditions were right. It takes a bit of the romance out of it knowing that it was a staged event, but that's how you breed horses.

There was some talk that some people in the United Kingdom thought that when Queen Elizabeth II passes away, Prince Charles should be skipped and the crown goes to Prince William. From my understanding, Prince Charles symbolizes the preparation for Prince William and Princess Kate who were both born on state dates. Prince Charles ascending to the throne will give people some breathing room. To jump into having Prince William (with Princess Kate) wear the crown would be deemed too soon. People around the world will have to adjust to this idea and need time to let all this sink in.

However, I would like to think that when Prince Charles and Princess Kate take the throne, it will symbolize a new Golden Age. The role of Prince Charles will be to prepare the world for this upcoming event. It may not be in his lifetime to see the reign of Prince William and Princess Kate, but I believe that he is wise in the ways of understanding change and in preparing the people of the United Kingdom and the rest of the world for what's to come.

Choosing a mate based off of Family Trees will have a positive effect on society. Most people may pick a mate and get married mainly because of looks. Even if they say they don't judge by that criterion, survival of the fittest naturally surfaces in the dating world. Only the strong survive. As nice guys become submissive or passive to women that have their guard up, the guy who doesn't take no for an answer will overrun a woman's defenses. The men who are persistent tend to have a bullheaded trait that makes them arrogant or conceited.

There is a claim that attractive people pair off with other attractive people. That leaves individuals, deemed unattractive by society, with no choice but to mate with those who have less than desirable physical attributes. As time passes where generations of attractive people mate with each other, attractive babies are naturally bred. Likewise, when unattractive people mate with those who are also deemed as unattractive, unattractive babies possessing the general physical traits deemed unappealing are generally the results. In a perfect world there should be no discrimination based on looks, but genetics being forged in a particular manner after decades or centuries will naturally conform to what has been provided.

Introducing mathematical genealogy changes the dating landscape. Rather than an attractive woman basing her partnering decision on looks, she'll look at the Family Trees of dating prospects to see if a guy (who may not be physically attractive) has complementary calendar dates that would yield an offspring that is well-rounded mathematically. In a later volume, I will cover how number tags on people can influence the Subconscious Collective as the Consciousness of the Planet grabs people by the numbers and calendar dates on their Family Tree and put them on a certain path. Bad number alignment can lead to an undesirable path.

Nice guys get a chance rather than striking out all the time with women. If a nice guy approaches a beautiful woman at a bar, she won't automatically shoot him down. She'll ask for the numbers in the Family Tree. If the numbers sound appealing or are a close match to what she's seeking, she will give the guy a chance rather than dismiss him. It also applies to dating web sites where people can list out their calendar dates. Family birthdates cannot be hidden or faked.

In other volumes I will discuss the concept of natural bloodlines and artificial ones. After the release of this book and people become aware of this proposition, natural bloodlines will eventually fade away. As future generations of people attempt to forge their own bloodlines consciously and willfully, that becomes like a relationship that is an artificial diamond. A relationship like Prince William and Princess Kate's that was managed by the Subconscious Collective would be a natural diamond because no one fiddled with it. Prince William and Princess Kate married each other out of love and not because the numbers said so. That's what makes their relationship special and a model for future generations of royalty.

Queen Elizabeth, as the mother of Queen Elizabeth II, was born on 8/4 like President Barack Obama. It means that Queen Elizabeth II was born of a father whose birthday aligns with the state of Alabama, a mother who shares the birthday of the current US President, a sister who aligns with the state of Hawaii, and grandchildren recently married that align with Connecticut and New Hampshire. Queen Elizabeth herself was born on 4/21. When her birthday merges with her husband Prince Philip's birthday on 6/10, the numbers add up to10/3, the date Nevada became a state.

This is an important time period in history because it is hinting at a new age. When Prince William and Princess Kate ascend to the throne, they will ring in a new order. Queen Elizabeth I was born on 8/4. Her husband was King George VI, whose birthday landed on the day Alabama gained statehood. Her sister Princess Margaret has a birthday as that of Hawaii's statehood. I claim these birthdates surrounding Queen Elizabeth 1's relatives symbolize the coalescing of the informational genetic code of the Planet coming into existence during Queen Elizabeth II's reign, but not part of her era. Queen Elizabeth II became the Queen Mother, but her birth date with that of her husband's, lands on the date of Nevada's statehood. It means that she only lands on a state date with that genetic code configuration through marriage or with the union of her spouse.

Prince Charles was born on 11/14, off by one month with King George VI's birthdate. There's a story behind the one-month theme. 2012 saw a solar tornado on the Sun that lasted for 30 hours on 2/7 of 2012 followed by 2 solar flares that shot off together on 3/7 of 2012, which was exactly one month later. There are themes I've witnessed where events are off by one day or off by one month. When Prince Charles assumes the throne, this will symbolize the era where humankind is still getting used to the idea of cryptology with calendar dates having a significant meaning. People have expressed interest in skipping over Prince Charles and going directly to Prince William and Princess Kate, but they have to adhere to the established the line of succession. That symbolizes how there are Subconscious Minds of people who are anxious to get to a certain point, but it's necessary to work out the kinks first.

When Prince William and Princess Kate ascend to the throne, I assume (hope?) enough time will have passed for the idea of state date patterns and Earth as a living organism to be accepted. Humankind still needs time to adjust to this concept. The people who would truly understand this movement have to age like wine. They have to mature and settle into positions of power to be able to direct the masses. As I've said, I'm an anomaly. If I were a news article, I would fall under the category of bizarre news. In math, I would be an "outlier" or a point on the graph that is on the far end of the spectrum compared to the main bulk of points that are clustered in the center. That's because I'm the first one entering the scene. The rest who follow after me or who understand my research, will still be moving in.

* * *

Colin Firth won an Academy Award for the "King's Speech" in 2011. His character was based off of King George VI, who was Queen Elizabeth II's father.

1. King George VI was born on 12/14 of 1895

2. Alabama became a state on 12/14 of 1819

3. King George VI died on 2/6 of 1952

4. Massachusetts became a state on 2/6 of 1788

King George was born on a US state date and also died on a US state date. This is a key event in history. A lot of children with stutters embraced this film because it helped them see someone in power who had overcome his stuttering. Lionel Logue helped King George VI with speech therapy.

1. Matthew 5:5 states that the meek will inherit the Earth

2. Actor Henry Cavill will play Superman in the 2013 movie "Man of Steel"

3. Henry Cavill was born on 5/5 of 1983

4. 5/5 = Matthew 5.5

5. Superman = Kal-El

6. Wikipedia cites that Kal-El means "Voice of God"

7. Kal-El = Voice of God

If Earth has a voice, it would be a stutter because it repeats itself with the numbers. When television shows and movies imitate the voice of God, it's a booming echo. That echo that repeats in geological time at a slower state would sound like a stutter to the human ear. When looking at a sound wave of a person's voice, imagine the Planet's voice where the peaks and valleys represent a span of 6 months per valley or peak. It would be seen as slow to a human but fast to a Planet running off on geological time.

## Chapter 4.6  
Don't Skip Over Prince Charles

I don't know much about Prince Charles personally, but I felt sorry for him when I read in the news that the English people were suggesting that when Queen Elizabeth II passes, they should skip over Prince Charles and elevate Prince William and Princess Kate to the throne.

The reason why England should not skip over Prince Charles is because he will be a Transition Monarch. This revelation about number tags mounted on people and mathematical alignment of Family Trees will change how people will look at the world. Prince William and Princess Kate ascending to the throne symbolizes the official beginning of this new Golden Age of numbers. When you have a King and Queen that are born on U.S. state dates aligning with a genetic code, it's symbolic.

However, not everyone is going to be ready for it. Some people are going to need more time to adjust to this. That's where Prince Charles comes in. I believe the role of Prince Charles as King is to help ease people into the new era by serving as a symbol of familiarity of the old world order predating 12/21 of 2012 before anyone knew about these calendar dates. People need time to adjust. They need to get used to this rather than having it sprung on them.

Change is inevitable. However, change means facing the unknown. Some people are scared of the unknown. Some people could be afraid of when Prince William and Princess Kate ascend to the throne if they know that they are marked up with unique calendar dates. I think it will just be business as usual, but people can still be uneasy.

My theory is that the reason why Prince William and Princess Kate were born on U.S. state dates to soothe the third world countries that will be uneasy with the idea of the United States having historical calendar dates that were created by the planet. If you can establish Intelligent Design where the dates that states joined the Union were chosen by the planet, it's like saying God chose those dates. If the United States was "chosen by God" or where this Super Consciousness bestowed its favor on the United States by creating it, you're basically saying that the United States is a Holy Land. It was literally touched by God if you're willing to buy into the belief that the Earth as a living organism counts as God.

You can bet that third world countries who have been insulting the United States, treating America badly, burning America's flags, and shouting about how they are going to destroy America will be fearful. Fear leads to anger. They spent all this time trashing and spitting on the United States only to find out that it's a land blessed by God. They've been killing American soldiers that technically come from a Land of God. It totally screws up their recruiting process that depends on convincing their followers that they're fighting on God's side. However, if a mathematical formula can be used to prove that the state dates over the last 300 years were specifically configured into a genetic code forged by the planet, that's about as close to God as you get.

So, my theory is that the planet created Prince William and Princess Kate in England to serve as the buffer between the United States and the third world countries. The third world countries will be uneasy accepting advice or suggestions from the United States. However, if you have Prince William and Princess Kate as mediators that are "touched by God" because they are born on state dates, that softens the blow. I certainly hope that none of the third world countries try to assassinate Prince William or Princess Kate. To do so would be like to destroy something God created.

If you can prove that the planet that is 4.5 billion years old is alive, it's probably very wise and knowledgeable. I believe it knew what it was doing when it configured these calendar dates. So how could anyone who has been on this planet for a fraction of a millisecond question God that has been alive for 4.5 billion years?

The United States has been giving money to the Middle East. I once compared the United States to an abused beautiful female. The United States is like a well-off, college-educated female with the Middle East as an abusive, unemployed, and college dropout live-in boyfriend. The live-in boyfriend makes the girlfriend pay for the food and roof they live under. He doesn't have a job and couldn't get a job even if he tried. He spends his time hanging out with his other unemployed loser friends. While he hangs out with them, he's constantly telling his friends who stupid and pathetic his girlfriend is, even though she pays for everything.

However, the reality is that loser boyfriend couldn't get a better girlfriend if he tried. He should be thankful he has her in his life. Her friends ask why this beautiful female who could do so much better stays with this loser. It's because he's violent. If the female tried to break up with the loser boyfriend, he'll stalk her. He'll hunt her down and threaten her making her miserable.

How different is that from reading in the news that the United States government is giving money to the Middle East to "stabilize" the situation and keep the peace. That's exactly like the terrorized girlfriend with the abusive domestic partner. If you don't do what the loser boyfriend says and try to leave, he's going to hunt her down. That would be the same as the 9/11 bombings. A 9/11 bombing is the equivalent of an uneducated loser boyfriend hitting his girlfriend. She's the breadwinner and the one bringing in the money to put food on the table and a place to live, while he's unemployed and living off of her.

As I say throughout my volume set, when you learn how to read Cryptology, you learn that the planet speaks in metaphors. When you read so many metaphors day in and day out, you start using metaphors to relate to and understand what you see in world politics. That's why the American people are wondering why we bother to give money to countries that treat us like garbage and burn our flags. It's okay for them to kill our troops and spit on us, but they still have their hand out accepting American taxpayer dollars.

That's why it will be interesting to see the shift in power and the new kind of leverage American diplomats will have with the Middle East when it comes to light that the United States is a Holy Land blessed by a planet symbolic of God?

Some third world countries will be offended at the idea of the United States being chosen as being representative of the planet, but it's because American culture most closely resembles the Subconscious Collective. Not only does it use the most technology that runs parallel to what the Subconscious Collective does, but the large geographical expanse of the United States from the highest latitude of Alaska to the lowest latitudes of Hawaii, California, Texas, and Florida allow for clearer tracking of weather formations that are not easily visible in Middle Eastern countries where it's just all Sun.

I'm not too crazy about the vampire phenomenon, but I will say one thing about it regarding Cryptology. If it's true that the Sun is alive just like Earth, the vampire theme becomes true. Vampires can't stand the light. Their skin burns and they can be killed by sunlight. If the Sun represents God, then the sunlight is like something of God. It would mean that people who are against God would be against the Sun.

If the light represents truth or illumination, then those who lurk in the shadows or don't like the truth will hide from the Sun because it's painful. My guess is that maybe the reason why the Middle East has a lot of Sun is because the planet knew that some of the more antiquated ideals and beliefs would be in that region.

If the Middle Eastern people finally discover that Earth is alive and that the Sun is alive, they will be constantly reminded of the presence of God as the Sun because the Sun with its sunlight is always beating down on them to remind them of God's presence.

The Statue of Liberty is the abbreviation SOL, which means "Sun" in Spanish. It's a torch of light that serves as a beacon of freedom. It's held by Lady Liberty who is a woman. The Middle East is known for not treating women well or as inferiors. If God is linked to a woman, then I would think that would be proof as to why the Sun or God would side with the United States that is an advocate of women's rights. I don't think God would side with people who treat women badly.

As I said, the United States is like an abused female with a loser boyfriend that is jealous of her success while he's a deadbeat. That's why if there's anyone who should be standing up for the United States that is being mistreated by other countries, it should be the American women that enjoy the freedoms provided by the United States.

The United States, as Lady Liberty, is being abused by a world domestic partner that treats her like dirt and continually criticizes her, insults her, and tries to make her feel like she's worthless.

If any woman has ever been in a relationship with man like that, then she should see the parallelism and how it's a political metaphor.

That's why if you're just sitting on the fence about whether to believe these theories, you should take a good hard look at what's going on around the world and the injustices. If people got on the bandwagon and pushed forward this idea that Earth is a living organism and that we can follow or trace its movements through the Associated Press Feed, we wrestle control away from the religious leaders trying to tell us what they think God wants and can just ask "God" (Earth) directly what it wants rather than taking the word of what another human says.

Don't look at me as someone who wants the job of leadership. I don't want it. I don't want to sit around telling people how to interpret and read Cryptology. Go out and collect data for yourself. Learn to be a Cryptologist.

When I say this, it's not meant to be a cop-out. It's meant as words of wisdom from a dying parent. If I was to die tomorrow, would people be able to take the information from this book and be able to make something of it?

That's what true parents and real teachers do. They prepare their children and students for the future so that they can survive on their own. That's what it's like to be independent.

One of the main reasons why I developed this volume set is because I don't want to spend the rest of my life transcribing the Associated Press Feed for people. In all honesty, it's boring after the 5th or 6th year. I get tired of having to translate all this information for people. I would be quite happy to see new young budding Cryptologists take over from where I left off.

I don't need to translate anymore stuff. I already know what it says. I already know what the planet prints out. I would like to retire, but I can't because I'm one of the few people that know how to translate the data. So I'm stuck here. I don't really have a choice.

I know some people will tell me to just quit. However, it's just like in "Spider-Man 2." Peter Parker quits being Spider-Man. All the stress, failing grades in college, love life falling apart, and negative publicity from J. Jonah Jameson and the Daily Bugle just finally got to him. When he sees a physician to find out why he's losing his powers, the physician says that maybe it's because he doesn't have to be Spider-Man. Why do you have to do it? If you don't want to do it, just quit. You always have a choice.

However, at the end of the movie, Peter takes up the mantle of Spider-Man again because people need a superhero. It's not really about what he wants. Being a superhero is about something bigger. People need a hero that serves as a beacon. When I do Cryptology, I watch day in and day out how the Associated Press Feed prints out senseless violence and death. You'll see the number tags marked up on these people involved in these incidents. The world is ignorant to it. Nobody knows. Nobody ever bothered to look.

When you're one of the few or the only person who knows, the burden just sort of falls upon you to do it. How can you stand by and not do anything when you are in possession of knowledge that could save lives? Do you turn your back on the people who are in need of help and you know it's within our power to help them?

More people can do something about this. It's just a matter of investing your education. Learn everything you can. Be aware of your surroundings. If you have a computer and Internet access, you can be a Cryptologist as well.

## Chapter 4.7  
Newborn Baby in the Royal Family

Princess Kate's child will be one of the first of the English Royalty to be born after 12/21 of 2012. I actually entertained the thought of withholding this volume on English Royalty till after the baby was conceived.

While it's highly likely that Prince William or Princess Kate will read this book before the child is conceived if at all, making mention of the birthdates for Prince William and Princess Kate landing on U.S. state dates regarding a pattern contaminates the data stream. It means that when the child is born, we don't know if Princess Kate intentionally chose to conceive on whatever date it is naturally or because she read this book and tried to pin down a specific date. Even if Princess Kate has nothing to do with it, you could argue it's possible that someone in the Royal Family who got their hands no this book could have pulled some strings to see that the birthing was induced or delayed to change natural date that the baby would have been born if there had been no tampering.

Because this book will get published before the baby is born, we'll never really know. We'll only be able to go on the account of Princess Kate and the statement released by the Royal Family.

People may wonder what the big deal is about calendar dates and why someone would try to alter the date that the child enters the world. When people catch on that the Consciousness of the Planet as the Subconscious Collective has been sending instructions to the Subconscious Minds of mothers to have people born on very specific calendar dates, people may no longer give birth naturally. They may try to force the calendar dates or pregnant mothers will request for their doctors to give them a C-section so that the child will receive a birth certificate that says they were born on a specific date.

For example, what if people realized that calendar dates with specific mathematical configurations can unlock the Subconscious Collective that runs like a software program running off Earth's Electromagnetic Field? Once data decryption is applied to the Electromagnetic Field housing Earth's operating system as a Super Computer, people will naturally try to hack the system or find a way to exploit a loophole in the program in order to further their own personal agenda, elevate their family status, or gain power.

There are people walking around with Family Trees around the world that are like royalty. They don't even know it. They just have perfect numbers where their relatives are born on perfect dates. It makes their Family Tree look like a flawless diamond. Those perfectly mathematically configured Family Trees are like gold.

It's good for the general population because there's a belief that the world is currently on track to developing reproductive deterioration because of physical beauty as a desirable trait. It means that all the attractive people pair off with attractive people. The people branded as ugly or unattractive by society are cast out. So they have no choice but to mate with other unattractive people. It's not a very flattering explanation, but it's true. If you all the attractive people with perfect genes mate with other attractive gene people, you have a high probability of yielding an offspring who will look like the parents. If both parents are physically gorgeous, the child will most likely blossom into an attractive looking individual as well. It's not guaranteed, but that's genetics for you.

The same goes for unattractive people that are paired off with other unattractive people. The most undesirable physical traits in one parent merged with another person who is seen as unattractive will most likely result in a child who carries the same physical attributes of both "ugly parents." That's not fair to the people who got the short end of the stick when it comes to being rated on the beauty scale by a superficial measuring stick generated by society.

However, when you show how people can have perfect numbers and it's possible to achieve numerical perfection with genetics, future generations of single people will start factoring in other things rather than just looks. If you're an average looking guy, this is good news for you. It means that if you're competing for the hand of a really beautiful woman debating between you and a handsome firefighter, you may edge that hunky beefcake stud out because you may have a better Family Tree that is more compatible to that female than the handsome guy.

It evens the playing field for the average person.

You don't buy into this whole genetic, mathematical configuration for genes. However, try to see how this new way of looking at the world mathematically can make people cut down on using physical beauty as the ultimate determining factor on finding a mate. That will help fix society.

For example, if you're a single, plain-looking guy who sees a gorgeous female sitting at a bar, she'll most likely turn you down if you ask for her number and to go on a date. She'll look at you as plain and uninteresting and dismiss you. It's where you didn't even stand a chance because the minute she looked at you, she already made up her mind that she didn't foresee any future with you.

When you insert value into Family Trees, it means birthdates open the door. Let's say you walk up to the same woman. Rather than just rejecting you immediately, she asks to see your driver's to look at your birthdate and the day you went to the Department of Motor Vehicles to renew your license. Imagine if she looks and finds that your birthdate is the same day as her dad and the day you went to the DMV is the birthday of her mother.

Rather than rejecting you, she will understand the significance of calendar dates and how we're all interconnected and she'll give you a shot. She'll accept going on a date with you because she'll try to find out why her Subconscious Mind and your Subconscious Mind drew each other together mathematically.

Keep in mind that matching dates don't guarantee that you will end up with someone or the guy or girl of your dreams will pair off with you like it was destiny. All I'm saying is that it helps the underdog a little bit. It just opens the door for communication that total and flat out rejection. That is how the dating world is today. Prior to 12/21 of 2012 and the way people look at the world today, that's the dating scene.

So when we come back to my comment about the release of this book before the baby of Princess Kate is conceived, the date that the child is born matters. However, it is not as valuable as the children who were born prior to 12/21 of 2012 and the release of this book when birthing occurred naturally.

## Chapter 4.8  
Dawning of the Age of Aquarius with 2012 Miss Universe Crowned

Keeping in the theme of royalty, Olivia Culpo was crowned as Miss Universe on 12/19/2012 (Dreier, 2012). This is significant because  Rhode Island became a state on 5/29 of 1790. Olivia Culpo was Miss USA 2012. Miss Wisconsin's Laura Kaeppeler was Miss American 2012.  Wisconsin became a state on 5/29 of 1848.

It means that with Miss USA and Miss America, the crowns were taken by women who represented states that joined the U.S. on 5/29. When you couple this with the God Particle linked to Peter Ware Higgs born 5/29 of 1929, you're looking at mathematical alignment.

If you were to look at Miss Rhode Island representing the United States taking the crown of Miss Universe, it's a celestial theme. It's talking about the Universe and God. It's very fitting because this Miss Universe event happened just before 12/21 of 2012 symbolizing the end. In terms of metaphors linked to Intelligent Design, it's saying that the God Particle as 5/29 symbolizing God took over the Universe.

All this was printed out in the news and right under people's noses. This is Cryptology for you. It's all public record.

In my Volume 5, I'll talk about Cryptology applied to music. I'll cover the 1969 song "Age of Aquarius" by the 5th Dimension. The great part about YouTube is that you're too young to have heard the song, you can watch the music video here. A lot of people today will know this song because the movie "40 Year Old Virgin" had the cast singing the song in the end credits. If you look at the IMDb tag for the movie, it ends in 422, which aligns with 4/22 representing Earth Day. If you realize that the Sun is alive and like God, you should really heed the words in the song and let the sunshine in.

Aquarius is an abbreviation.

1) Aquarius = Aqua/RI,U.S.

2) Aqua = Water

3) Water = Knowledge

4) RI = Rhode Island

5) Miss Universe 2012 Olivia Culpo is Miss Rhode Island

6) U.S. = United States

7) Aqua/RI,U.S. = Knowledge Rhode Island, United States

When Miss Rhode Island symbolizing the United States assumed the crown of Miss Universe symbolizing the known universe, it was the dawning of the Age of Aqua/RI,U.S. She is a living symbol of the Universe and God. You'll never see anything like it ever again.

The reason why I say that is because her crowning as Miss Universe will be the last person to have been crowned before this book came out and before people knew about the data encryption code. Next year, if a new person is crowned, you won't be able to tell whether the person knew about the encrypted data feed and whether anyone behind the scenes tried to fiddle with the results to see who won.

This comes back to why the planet went through so much trouble to encrypt the data feed. Imagine if people like hardcore atheists didn't want to admit they were wrong about there being no God. If they uncovered the encrypted data feed before anyone else did, they could create a shadow organization that would attempt to destroy the evidence so that they could maintain their position.

This is what the 2006 movie "Da Vinci Code" showed what was happening with the Jesus Christ Bloodline. The family of the Jesus Christ Bloodline had to go into hiding for their own protection. They had to protect the bloodline because there would be groups out there that would attempt to exterminate them.

That's why you have Cryptology. It's so that when the cumulative intelligence of humankind reached a certain level, all the symbols would unlock. With the existence of the Internet to guarantee worldwide spread of the information, the proof would spread faster than opponents could react in time to snuff it out or bury the information.

The pageants were marked by the 2000 movie "Miss Congeniality" starring Sandra Bullock born 7/26 of 1964.  New York became a state on 7/26 of 1788. In the movie, Miss Rhode Island's Cheryl Frasier, played by Heather Burns, won. When asked what she thought was a perfect date, she felt it is April 25th because it's not too hot and not too cold. All you need is a light jacket.

## Chapter 4.9  
Sunflower Diaries, Volume 4 Conclusion

This volume covers dates and trivia tied to the Royal Family that I believe are indicative of Intelligent Design. I believe that the birthdates of Prince William and Princess Kate were no accident. I heard the story of how the two met. However, when you look at the Subconscious Collective that will herd or corral people like horses to be bred, some things are preordained.

When I read about American History and how the 13 Colonies separated from England, it makes me a bit sad because I really like England a lot. I think it would have been neat to have been born English. However, it wasn't meant to be. It was a different time period and the United States had to break off from the Mother Country.

Even when you refer to England as the Mother Country, it's the theme that England is our mother. As the world moves into this new world order of mathematics and computers, I think the United States will need the guidance and the wisdom of the United Kingdom now more than ever.

I secretly kind of hope that this book will make its way to Queen Elizabeth II before she passes away. I kind of like to believe that the reason why the Queen Mother hasn't passed away yet is because she's waiting on an unconscious level. Maybe she's waiting to watch the world unfold when it becomes apparent that Earth is alive and the rest of the world knows it's alive. I think it would be kind of a nice reassurance that the world is in good hands.

I would like to see Prince Charles take an assertive role in leading the world into this new era and paving the way of leadership for Prince William and Princess Kate. I think that Prince Charles is the perfect Transition Monarch between Queen Elizabeth II and Prince William. I believe he's necessary.

He has the wisdom and experience of a King who was not yet. He never became King because his mother lived to a very old age. I relate to Prince Charles because I'm of Royal Blood. My mom is very much like the Queen Mother. I spent most of my life as a starving artist living at home. How different is that from Prince Charles living at Buckingham Palace? Prince Charles is this aging prince that has not gotten to ascend to the throne.

Maybe it's a good thing. Maybe Prince Charles is a good position to not be King yet because when this information about Cryptology is released regarding Earth as a Super Computer and where people are going to see that a lot of things were staged, people may go into a panic on some level. When they go into a panic, they'll turn to their leaders.

I believe they will turn to Queen Elizabeth II as our Queen Mother. I believe that because Queen Elizabeth II has been ruling over the country of England for so long, she is seasoned and experienced to where she will be level-headed. Not to be crude or disrespect the Queen Mother, but she's too old to worry or be scared of anything.

Why would the Queen Mother be scared of discovering that Earth is alive? She has nothing to fear. If she was the age of Prince William or even the age of Prince Charles, she might worry at that age. However, she was born 4/21 of 1926. She's 86 years old. From what I've seen, she's fully in control of her mental faculties. She's as sharp as she ever was.

Queen Elizabeth has been alive to seen some of the most major events in history. If there's anyone who could determine whether this information about Earth and Intelligent Design is true, it would be her. She's got the resources. She could assign people in England to check this information out. England has some of the best archives on Family Trees and genealogy because they were keeping track or records of birthdates long before other countries did. The records of the United Kingdom's citizens are better than that of the United States that only started documenting things in the 1850s. If there was any country I would bet on that could verify the calendar dates of historical events, it would be England.

I think that Prince Charles has his best years ahead of him. While Queen Elizabeth II helps smooth the way for this new era, Prince Charles will be able to take what experience he already knows about leadership as a Prince by watching how his mother Queen Elizabeth II handles the way this all unfolds. Then when he ascends to the throne, he'll get to work in paving the way for peace with the Middle Eastern countries. That will set the tone for when it's time for Prince William to take over.

I believe that people need Prince Charles. He is sorely underestimated. The years that Prince Charles serves as a monarch will determine how much of an easier job Prince William and Prince Kate will have when it's their turn. I think that once Prince Charles realizes how crucial or important his role is during the fragile time period of transition between Queen Elizabeth II and his son Prince William, I think he'll naturally do a good job.

As for Prince William and Princess Kate, they are a power couple that I hope have a long life together. They'll be one of the last royal couples to be born before the world knew about the secret births and what the planet was orchestrating.

While it's true that the Subconscious Collective pairs people up like horses being bred, I hope that Prince William and Princess Kate will still focus on their love for each other. Love is really important. Whether it was preordained or not, I hope that they remember that when they first saw each other and knew they were in love that they hold onto that feeling.

They shouldn't let the stuff about Cryptology in this book saying they were already slated to be together undermine their feelings for each other. One really good movie they may want to watch is the 2005 movie "Bewitched" with Nicole Kidman born 6/20 of 1967, which is when West Virginia became a state. It's a story about a witch that wanted to find love. However, she didn't want to fall in love simply because she, or her partner, was under a love spell. She wanted it to be real.

Will Ferrell's character Jack Wyatt wasn't sure whether he was truly in love with her or if it was because of a spell. Maybe at some point in the lives of Prince William and Princess Kate one or both of them will have a midlife crisis or wonder if they really loved each other or because it was just a well-orchestrated plan by the Subconscious Collective to pair them together. Was that all there was to it?

I can't answer that for them. I hope it never comes to that. However, at the end of the movie, Steve Carell's character asks how Jack feels about Isabel. Does it matter that she's a witch? Does it matter if there was magic involved? Forgetting about all that, how does he feel about her?

They should consider themselves lucky in the sense that they are one of the few royal couples to get together free of worrying whether it was all staged or if their lives were doctored or manipulated. It would be a shame if the two spend too much time analyzing their relationship rather than enjoying each other's company.

The world will be watching them as the first couple even more so when its people will be unsure what to make of this whole thing where the planet is alive. I realize that's a lot more pressure for them as a couple when they already have all eyes on them in the public spotlight, but the world will need them now more than ever to serve as a Rock of Gibraltar or solidarity in the leadership.

This mathematical code is going to breed more princes and princesses with Family Trees that are perfectly aligned. That perfect alignment of numbers will elevate them in status equivalent to royalty. That's where Prince William and Princess Kate will need to set an example for these new people who are chosen as mathematical royalty that don't know what to do with their newfound power and influence. Those two will have to teach people how to be royalty.

I'm not talking about proper etiquette with how to use a fork and spoon. I'm referring to how you conduct yourself, treat others with respect, learn to listen, be open-minded, and know how to interact with others. It's regarding the last stanza of "If" by Rudyard Kipling.

If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue

Or walk with Kings - nor lose the common touch

What made the character Superman iconic was that he was like a God amongst men, but he never lost the common touch. He never let his powers or godhood cloud his judgment or get to his head. He had the most reason to brag, but he never developed an ego. That's what made Superman admirable. That was a result of good upbringing. He was salt of the earth. That's why people today still look up to him and consider him one of the greatest superheroes ever.

Superman actor Brandon Routh's child Leo James is born 8/10 when Missouri became a state. Prince William and Princess Kate are 6/21 and 1/9 for Connecticut. So you see the state date theme align royalty with an actor who represented a fictional character who was like royalty.

The world moves as one. Some people may not see it, but trust me. It does. The old world as we knew it did end on 12/21 of 2012. The new one is upon us.

## Nitrogen 4  
Conclusion

One thing I was expecting to happen was the natural alignment of the older "Sunflower diaries" Volumes in tandem with the overlapping "Big Ban Theory" Volumes. In this case it's with "Eggland" (England) and N for the 7th Element of Nitrogen aligning with G as the 7th Letter in the Alphabet.

I'm in a rush where I'm just skimming over my old volumes to prep them for publication every 24 hours (or as fast as I can barring any interruptions). So I'm not really bothering to look at what I wrote in the old volumes. I'm just printing them as is. I just don't have to do it because I have to stay on top of the Associated Press Feed.

The objective is to print on a daily basis if possible so that you can see about 4 to 6 weeks worth of news nonstop every day. Then you can see the snowball effect where news from the day before will relate to news the next day. It will align with something that was mentioned in an old volume I wrote that I'm publishing again. This is the Subconscious Collective matching data. They already know what I wrote. So they'll align the data.

This method is the best way to understand how powerful the Subconscious Mind is and when it works in conjunction with the Subconscious Collective that resides within Earth's Electromagnetic Field.

The people who are in the best position to read this are the ones who already read the previous volume series so they don't have to read this old content. All they have to do is just read the added "Big Ban Theory" chapters that will mark the news articles of the day. That was something I couldn't effectively do in 2013 because it takes a long time to compose 20,000 to 30,000 words. The content of the old volumes is already written and just piggybacking the new "Big Bang Theory" volume, I can publish faster.

Speed is the key.

Force = Mass x Acceleration

The objective is to push through the Associated Press Feed at a high rate of speed that skeptics and critics will no longer be able to easily defend the argument that it's coincidence or lucky on my part. When I can publish a steady stream of literature going from one day to the next where I'm nailing all the number tags like a marksman, the precision and accuracy of those news articles builds my credibility.

Will I miss a few news articles?

Probably.

Will all the news articles align with whatever I do?

No.

In fact, the reason why I won't always be able to hit the news is because it's making room for other new Psychics who will be Planet Cryptologists. There could be hidden Psychics that are doing things that are also making the news feed behave differently. I just happen to have the lion's share because I know the mathematical configuration that is bonded to my Family Tree.

This volume is sitting at around 21,000 words. I would've liked to add another 10,000 from the next volume, but I don't have enough time to clean it up and get it ready. It's 10:50 pm PST on 6/22 of 2014, and I'm just tired. I have to get up again tomorrow and start this all over with prepping the next volume to be out. It's like a newspaper publication, but where you only have one person who has to do it all.

I'm just hoping that despite people's skepticism on all of this, they'll wonder about why I'm doing this.

" _What is so important about this material that this guy is willing to rewrite the 84 volumes just to make sure we read it?"_

I'm hoping that even if people aren't sure what to think they'll at least give me credit for trying. I may come off as some crazy fool, but at least give me props for trying to get a message out about how important (I think) this message is.

Uncovering your Earth you live on and your Sun is a big deal.

This whole book ban and gag order knocked me flat on my back. I was getting ready to finally breathe a sigh of relief thinking I'm finally done. Now I have to do write it all over again.

How many authors do you know who would do something like this?

Telling you about the "Magic Island" and how I can do a Psychic Scream projecting my numbers into the Electromagnetic Field to be blasted across the Associated Press Feed isn't to impress you.

It's wake you up.

It's to tell you that it can be done.

It's to tell you that there will be more people like me who can do this. When I'm dead and gone, there'll be someone else who will do what I did. However, I can't guarantee that the next person will be a "Nice Guy" like me who cares about the welfare of humankind.

The next person might be a "bad person." It could be a person who doesn't care about you, your children, the environment, our world, or our solar system. He could be someone who is just interested in the money and power.

If people don't learn this content I'm trying to teach them "because it's too hard," then you have nobody to blame but yourselves when the wrong people come in power and start manipulating the Psychic Field for their own personal gratification and profit. You won't like it when it messes up your world or harms your family.

You'll just sit helplessly watching it happen.

" _And it all started with a Big Ban!"_
