

  **BloggyBook Winter Season 2013**

Marc Corn

Published by Marc Corn at Smashwords

Smashwords Edition

Copyright 2013 Marc Corn
Table of Contents

- Legal

- Other Books

- About this Book

- Feeling Sluggish

- Friday Yearning

- Saturday Gallbladder Pain

- Sunday Walk to The Park

- SuperBowl Monday

- Barking, Postman Jumps!

- Long Day, and Another Cold

- Day of Numbness

- Town visit, and confessions

- All This Death Talk

- Over Thinking Sunday

- Cold Monday Morning

- No Pancakes, and No Energy

- Late Night Energy Burst

- Hip Pains, and Redneck talk

- Russian Meteor, and Religion

- Gran Turismo, and Rejection

- Sunday Sinus Cold

- Friends, and inspiration

- Sneezing Sickness

- Town life, and inspiration

- Early Call, and Package

- Friday Fail

- Cold day, and Warming chat

- A New G String

- Winter Season 2013 Closure

- About Marc, and Social Links
Legal information

Copyright © Marc Corn 2013

All Rights Reserved.  
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in  
a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means  
without the prior permission in writing of the publisher,  
nor be otherwise circulated In any form of  
binding or cover other than that in which it is published  
and without a similar condition being imposed on the  
subsequent purchaser.

Awareness Pictures  
http://awarenesspictures.com

Published by Lulu Enterprises, Inc.  
http://www.lulu.com

ISBN: 978-1-291-31454-0  
eBook: 978-1-291-31484-7

  **Other Books By Marc Corn**

Moral Rat

Habit, Kicks and Laughter

InstaScrapBook: 2012 Picks
**  About this book**

This book series contains a blog post for each day of the season. I share many aspects of my life, and that includes struggles, funnies and family moments.

I wrote this book to keep track of my daily activities and to remember precious family moments that we never want to forget.

Life goes by really fast, it is like someone is turning the hands of time and not giving you a chance to treasure each moment we have in life.

**Dedications**

This book is dedicated to my family, friends and those who are silly enough to follow me on social networks. With each one of my books I thank those who have supported me, those thanks go to Cassie, Laura, Jeff, Steve, Carl and my parents Daniel & Janice.

_Never hold back, you can turn what could be, into what should be.  _

_  
_

_Marc._

_  
_

_  
_

### Feeling Sluggish - 31 January 2013

Over the last month or so I have felt sluggish, weirdly enough the feeling only occurs a few hours after I have eaten more often recently and even though this is a good thing, I am finding it is becoming a task to fill myself every 4-5 hours.

How did I manage when my eating disorder plagued me in my younger days? Must have been the pure rush of energy that we all experience through our teenage years, some people are blessed with this energy surpass their teenage years, wish I was.

Today is one of those days where energy has decided to appear in bursts, one minute I am full of energy and then I'm not. Someone must be playing with my inner energy switch and just picking when it wants to make me feel better. I am currently sat on the sofa with my newly purchased iPad Mini, as I write this, I am looking through our backdoor that overlooks our small garden, my belief is that I can get inspiration from anything or anywhere and if that means our mundane garden fills me with ideas then so be it.

I always get told by my doctors that the key to regain energy back is to keep active, I believe that they use this as a mind over matter, if you don't think about it then it won't be something you focus on. Sometimes this method works, but most of the time the lack of energy feeling beats me and I end up trying to sleep it off, and most of the time I wake up feeling more tired than I did before.

One last brief note, I have received the first retail copy of habit, kicks and laughter. Noticeably the pages are publisher grade, this means that the page costs are cheaper and Amazon are able to offer books at cheaper rates.

### **Friday Yearning** \- 1 February 2013

Well, today is Friday, that one day of the week we all yearn to come along every week. This week has been hit and miss for me, and being struck down with a cold most of the week has made it more long winded than usual.

Heading into the afternoon I had plans to get some food shopping, but tiredness got the better of me, so I asked Laura (sister) to go for me, all I really needed today was some kitchen roll, I have enough food until the early hours. So, with the spare time created from not going to the shop was used to chat one of my best friends Steve, I always love our chats because we relate on many levels and the chats can be a mix of subjects.

Apart from talking to much online I have been practicing more on the electric guitar, over the last few weeks I have learned several tunes, some old and some new. Today I decided to mix it up, I learnt the theme tune for "One Foot in the Grave," this an old TV show that was aired on the BBC during the1990s, and yes I know the show well.

The other tune I learnt after this was a song called "Sweet about me," I have learned this one before, but I misplaced the tabs for a year and it has been bugging me ever since to find the tabs again. I was in luck recently as it played on the radio, and when I heard it my first words were "that's the bloody song I have been trying to find," I was straight onto my mac searching for it and after a couple of minutes I had found what I needed.

In the evening I decided to make myself some Chinese style noodles, maybe I went too far because I ended up eating three packets and yes I was completely stuffed afterwards. So, with my gut filled and nothing else better to do, I have decided to get my duvet and crash out on the sofa. I still have many things to do, these can wait until another day, I don't know if I am being skeptical, but days seem to fly by lately and honestly there isn't enough hours in the day to complete each task.

If I could sum up my day I would say it was a sigh of relief, fun and utter laziness. Who knows tomorrow may hold more surprises and could be more exciting.

### **Saturday Gallbladder Pain** \- 2 February 2013

Saturday is upon us and oddly enough I am relaxing. Most of my days are normally spent undergoing a mixture of tasks, but today I have every need to relax. I woke up this morning around 7AM and the first thing that hit was an almighty pain in the gallbladder, once this starts I know that I am going to have problems all day with pain.

This problem only really bothers me when I become blocked up, due to my cerebral palsy I suffer from bad muscle tone and spasms. When I was younger I rarely suffered from bad spasms or bad muscle tone, normally it made things lose rather than tensing up. I think as time has passed and I have become older has taken its toll on my body, after all you only young for so long before age catches up on you. I know you may be thinking that I am only you, but the truth is because of my pains I suffer each day it really takes it out of me.

When I was 16 I could easily push past the pain and run around like any other person of that age, this is one thing I miss. I have very active nieces and I was able to keep up with them, but now with all my problems I can't do it. Most of the time I am sat on the sofa with a pillow and cover, this may be seen as being lazy and it really isn't. If I had my way I would force myself, but I am likely to cause more damage.

I haven't really done much today because of these pains, siting on the sofa and watch the TV and drinking plenty of fluids is all I have done. I have also written this at the same time. The best thing about today is that I hadn't made any plans, if I did make any plans I think I would end up struggling like a cripple, so it's an easy day.

For the rest of the day I will be relaxing, I could play the guitar or do some stuff on the MacBook, oh well I will take everything as it comes.

### **Sunday Walk to The Park** \- 3 February 2013

Easy like a Sunday morning, it certainly has been easy today. The day started out very easy, we all decided to walk over to the park with my nieces and just shoot up the breeze. When I say shoot up the breeze it felt like the breeze was shooting at me because the wind was so bitter.

When we were walking to the park I decided to let everyone walk ahead of me so I could take a few pictures using my iPad and iPhone. I was a man on a mission today, I wanted to find a pair of trousers with a pocket that was big enough to fit the iPad mini, to my success I remembered that I had some cargo trousers that had two pockets that would fit the iPad in perfectly. The iPad fitted, well only just. I couldn't get the zip to go across fully, but it was still secure.

After 15 minutes, we arrived at the park and as normal the girls ran off to the swings while we sat on the benches. I always find these times very relaxing, it's nice just to watch the world go by for a while. As time went on I decided to take my sister's bike and do a few laps around the pound, normally I wouldn't entertain riding a bike because I cause damage to my knees.

So, I shifted the gears down to first and started riding past the pond. I suddenly felt the front wheel become very soft, noticeably the steering was pulling to one side. I stopped the bike and looked at the front wheel, nothing looked out of place, all I noticed was that my trousers were covered in mud. I headed back towards where the girls were because I wanted to lean against the railing to steady myself while I moved the iPad to my bag, the last thing I wanted to happen was to get mud all over my new iPad.

Now with the iPad securely stashed away in my bag I headed off once again around the pond on the bike, it has been sometime since I was last on a bike, last time I remember being on a bike it was when I was younger. I only went around the pond once because I could feel my knee's starting to ache and my heart was beating faster than a drum. I got back to where the girls were, leaning up against the railing, but I couldn't get my leg over the seat because I was all stiff (that's what he said.) Eventually I got off the bike and hobbled over to the bench, my knees were starting to bruise and the pain was starting to make my eye's water.

So, it was time to head home. We were all starting to get cold, our hands were starting to go purple. I just wanted to get home, the cold weather was really getting to me and as always the cold was starting to play havoc with my joints. As you can guess it didn't take long to get back. I got through the door and kicked off my trainers, I was in need of some pain relief and a good old cup of tea.

Since I got back I have been taking it easy, and playing games with Hannah on my iPhone. She successfully ran the battery down in both of my iPhones and now all I have left with is the iPad, which is lucky because I needed to write this blog.

All I have planned for the rest of the day is to watch TV and walk Hannah back home to her mums (my sister Cassie), it isn't far really just around the corner.

### **SuperBowl Monday** \- 4 February 2013

There's nothing like starting a Monday really early. Today started off by watching the Super Bowl 2013, it started around 11pm on the Sunday and finished around 3am. I must admit I wasn't paying much attention to the game because I was watching all the chatter on twitter surrounding the event. Mostly the talk was focused on whether Beyonce was miming the national anthem, which she wasn't, but this didn't stop people from making jokes.

I must have been really tired because I don't even remember falling asleep, one minute I was gone and then the I was awake again. The funny part about this was that I remember falling asleep with the light on and the TV, but the best part is I woke up and both of them were switched off, how did I mange that? I must have super sleeping powers that remember to turn everything off for me while I sleep.

After breakfast I decided to play the guitar for a while, for my own amazement I decided to learn a "One Direction" song. This wasn't my usual choice of song to play nor was it something you would find in my music collection, but I just wanted to try something different. I skimmed over most of their tracks and I ended up finding one called "Whatever makes you Beautiful". I think luck was on my side because it didn't take me long to find the tabs for the song and it only took me twenty minutes to learn the song.

Every morning I check over each bookstore that my books are published in and my publisher forums. Today I focused more on the forums, giving any help I can to fellow authors with their queries.

While I was helping I decided to look though my publishers site to look at other authors books, it surprised me that there was such a wide variety of books and authors that had a mixed collection of published books. This is something I am aiming towards. I want to write about as many genres as possible to see what books I come up with, and you never know people might like them too.

The rest of my day has been spent chatting to Steve on FaceTime and catching up with pending book publications. I was meant to go shopping with my mum, but I had to get my sister to go for me. Don't get me wrong I would have gone myself, but I was suffering from a few pains in my legs. I guess it saved everyone time because I take ages to do the shopping, with my legs being weak most of the time I can't always force myself to do activities that will cause extra strain.

Most of my evening has been spent writing this blog post, and just relaxing. I haven't done anything else really, normally I would spend time going through social networks and chatting, but I couldn't be bothered because I needed time too myself.

### **Barking, Postman Jumps!** \- 5 February 2013

Today I was finding it hard to wake up, every time I looked at my iPhone I just said to myself just ten more minutes. In the end I arose from my bed at 8:48am, pains through my back kick started once I stood up and I knew I had to take a couple of tablets.

I decided to have golden syrup weetobix for breakfast, they are so tasty. When I spotted these in the shop initially I was only going to try them, but just after one bowl of them I was hooked, words of advice though don't have more than four in one sitting because you will get blocked up or it will cause stomach cramps. The best way to have weetobix is too warm them up in the microwave, I can't stand them being cold because the texture makes me feel sick.

After I cleared up the breakfast things, I heard a knock at the door, it was little Hannah, my niece. I thought why isn't she at school, turns out she had a cold, didn't stop her playing games on my iPad though. I remember having time off when I was younger and spending a lot of my time on the computer, dad always used to say if you're well enough to play that then you are well enough to be at school. I had nothing else better to do, I was sick and I would get bored easily so I needed something to do.

I also got to see Amber (niece) today, she is doing really well. I can't believe that she is growing up so fast and she is really forward in herself, she can smile now and stick her tongue out. All of my nieces seem to grow up really fast, Hannah is five, Mia is seven and Amber is six weeks old. The time just goes by, it won't be long before they are grown up young ladies and progressing into their teenage years.

Before Cassie (sister) and Karl went home, Karl noticed the postman was about to put post through the door, so he stood behind the front door and barked like a dog, the postman jumped out of his skin and we were wetting ourselves with laughter. I couldn't believe it made the postman jump, you would think they would be use to it all by now, most of the time our postman is listening to music, so on this occasion I think we caught him off guard.

Hannah decided to stay at ours for dinner, which is good because she can spend time with us. I always love having my nieces round, even though they are noisy at times, I treasure each moment with them. I just wish they could be small again so I could give them cuddles and go through all the baby years again.

We were meant to take Hannah back home after dinner, but she was burning up and asked could she stay at ours for the night. As always we said yes she could stay, we just needed to go collect some of her clothes and calpol medicine for the night.

After we collected Hannah's things, we went off to Tesco to get some shopping. As we went through the door I started to feel drained, this happens nearly every time I go there. We got everything I needed on this list, well with a few additions of course! I picked up a new book called "The First Last Kiss" it is a romance story about holding on to love ones that are slowly slipping away.

When we were walking around the shop I couldn't really focus on anything, depression kicked in and I kept on thinking bad things. I can't really go into what makes me depressed because I would be sat here for hours trying to explain everything, but don't worry I have a book coming out that goes in-depth and explains it all.

I was so glad to get home. Time to put my feet up and have dinner, then I will be going to bed.

### **Long day, and Another Cold** \- 6 February 2013

The day started out with me eating dinner at 12:30am, and yes I know it was late having dinner, but I wasn't hungry earlier when everyone had theirs. While I was eating dinner I switched on a TV program called "The Undatable's", the show follows special needs adults on their quest to find love, and to highlight their day-to-day struggles that make it harder for them to find their ideal partner.

I found the show very interesting, it proved that no one is undateable. If you think about it logically, we are in world populated by millions of people so, this means that there is a person out there for everyone.

Being as late as it was the sky seemed to be very light, normally it is completely dark, but I am guessing the sudden change with the weather has something to do with it. Over the last couple of weeks snow has battered most of the country, with many places seeing a tremendous downfall in a short space of time. The first bit of snow has only just started to melt and according to the weather man we are due more this week, this will explain why the sky is lighter because snow clouds reflect light causing it to become more brighter.

After a few hours I woke up and had breakfast. I remembered shortly afterwards that I needed to update my financial spreadsheet, which means I had the enduring task of going through my bank statements and updating the spreadsheet accordingly. I always make sure that I account for every penny, and I also forecast money three months ahead so I know what is going in and out.

I spent most of the afternoon asleep on the sofa, it felt like the energy had drained from my body. When I fell asleep at midday I thought the lack of energy was due to lack of sleep from the night before, but it seems like I have caught a bug. I couldn't believe that I had caught another bug in a short space of time.

There are some good points about being sick, you can rest all day and stuff yourself full of food. I don't know if everyone stuff themselves with food, but I do when I am sick, this is always a clear sign that I am coming down with something.

I decided to walk Hannah (niece) home with my sister (Laura) so I could get some fresh air and I also needed to pick up some shopping as I was running out of food, and mum also needed an energy drink as she isn't feeling very well.

Mum has morphine patches and the odd occasion she has bad side-effects from them, the side-effects leave her completely helpless on the sofa and unable to do much for herself. Hopefully the side-effects will pass quickly. I can relate with mum's side-effects because I am on similar medication and it hits me with the same side-effects.

After we dropped Hannah off, we walked across to Tesco to pick up the shopping. As we were walking around the aisles I spotted a drink called "That's how BLACK works". It is an energy drink that can be found in the United States and obviously our local store have been importing them along with other products. The name of the drink is what caught my eye, initially I thought it was a racist title, but after researching the drink it turned out to be a drink associated to Mike Tyson, he is a well-known boxer.

The drink has caused outcry by many organizations in the UK because it has been advertised as a premium "sex-energy" drink. I won't be going in-depth about this, but if you search it online you will see why people are upset.

We had finally got around the shop and picked up all the shopping, as we stood in the self-service checkout queue Laura politely informed me that she hadn't picked up a drink to have while we walk home, I told her that I would get one separately once we got to the other kiosk because I wasn't walking back round the shop to get one.

So with the shopping all paid for, all we had left to do was to pick up a drink. Now the plan was that we were only going to buy a drink, but as you can guess it didn't work out like that. While Laura was looking for the drink she wanted I noticed there was a book display next to the drink cabinet, and you can guess what happened next I brought another book. The book is called "Tuesday's Gone" and it was written by Nicci French, on the front cover it has a quote that caught my eye "The Mind is a Dangerous Place to Hide," just from reading that quote I knew I wanted to buy it.

Two hours later we got back home, and we were really glad to be back because it was getting very cold outside. Once I put the food away I sat down and watched TV. Today has certainly been very exhausting, but I have got through it and I will live another day.

### **Day of Numbness** \- 7 February 2013

Today started with some good news, my three latest books have been published on the Barnes & Noble nook store, admittedly this has taken longer than expected, but gladly its done now and I am very grateful.

This morning we were watching a TV program called "Wanted Down Under," it is about families who want to immigrate to Australia. The families get to spend one week in Australia trying out the Australian lifestyle and at the end of the week they vote whether they would immigrate to Australia. Sometimes I believe that people just use this as an opportunity to get a free holiday because most of them that choose not to emigrate seem that uninterested from the start.

Most of my morning was spent nursing pains and numbness, this was caused by a spasm attack I had last night while I was sleeping. I have had these attacks occur several times over recent months, most of the time they start off with a breathing attack. I have been told that this could be a form of sleep apnea, but I have also been told that it could simply be a trapped nerve, either way my doctor isn't too concerned about it.

When the afternoon came along I started to feel more exhausted and numb. I tried playing the guitar to take my mind off it, but my body was having none of it. This numbness always happens after an attack, and usually it passes after a couple of hours, but unfortunately twelve hours later I am still being affected by it. I always hate feeling like this because it makes my head feel heavy and I get very confused.

At around 2pm I retired to my bed for a nap, I couldn't stay awake any longer, the heavy feeling got the better of me. After a couple of hours, I woke up feeling more relaxed and better within myself, but this would only last for thirty minutes before the heavy feeling would hit me again.

The best thing I can do is get some more rest,

### **Town visit, and confessions** \- 8 February 2013

My day starts out in town at Costa coffee, decided to have a day with my sister (Cassie,) her partner (Karl) and mother (Jan.) I had my usual; two cups of tea with loads of sugar. We went across to Primark which, is a clothes shop, mum brought Amber (niece) some new tops. Afterwards, everyone decided they wanted something to eat so, it was off to Taco Bell for their usual lunch, tacos and nachos. I didn't have anything to eat as always, I will explain this later in the blog.

After they all had lunch, me and mum went across to ASDA (supermarket) while Cassie and Karl went to Ann Summers (naughty adult shop,) this is one shop I try to stay away from. I don't know why I get embarrassed, but I am sure I am not the only man who hates going into that shop.

As we walked through the shop entrance mum noticed there was a sale on clothes, and from experience all this means is that mum wants something new. I don't mind buying her new things, but I wish she would just ask me rather than being all quiet about it.

As mum was looking through the clothes she found a top that she liked, it was similar to one I brought her a few months before.

We got everything from the shop we needed, and for once we didn't get any added extra's, well I wasn't planning on mum wanting a new top.

Cassie and Karl were still in the shop, we got around quicker because they were at Anne Summers before meeting us in Asda.

The last thing we had to do was to collect some insulation tape from the pound shop. Cassie and Karl went off to the other pound shop while myself and mum went to the less busy pound shop. In the end we found the tape, it is a good job we did because I need to use some on my iPhone charger, the wire casing has split and I don't want to risk using it while the inner cables are visible.

While myself and mum were waiting for Cassie and Karl we sat on a bench, I said to mum that I would quickly pop across to WHSmith (bookshop) to see if they had a book I needed.

When I was in the shop I found the book I needed, but it was £18, it was a bit expensive for my liking. I thought the best way to save money was to download the book through an online store, and that's what I did when I got home.

So, we all met back up and walked back to the car. I was starting to get really tired and I had pains through my body. When we arrived home I needed to have food; I hadn't eaten anything since breakfast and it wasn't much. I was debating what to have, but I ended up just eating yogurts because it was something quick.

Going back to something I mentioned earlier about me not eating out. I have a long history of panic attacks, this has been going on for 11 years. I have only just started drinking while I am out the house.

When I was younger I went through an eating disorder that nearly killed me several times. There was one situation that happened when I was 13, while eating my dinner I started choking on my food, and at the same time I suffered from a massive panic attack. I remember it so clearly, it plays on my mind each day and I can't seem to forget about it, I was choking badly and my cheeks were turning red. The only thing that went through my mind was that I thought I was going to die and choke to death. So, from that point it scared me to death and I started to go downhill fast.

To be brief, I stopped eating a lot and I dropped down from seventeen stone to seven stone in the matter of months. I don't recommend this to anyone because this drastic weight loss had caused much damage to my body. As years went by of ups and downs we found out that my muscles had become weak.

The problem with this was that I had to change my diet to soft foods; things like yogurts, custard and food replacement drinks. One other problem was that I was producing too much saliva causing me to dribble, and even today I have to carry kitchen roll around with me so I am able to use that to dribble into. I know it may seem disgusting to some people, but I am unable to swallow it because I will choke.

Many years ago I sought help and tried to get it under control, but after many medications and failed attempts it couldn't be cured. The doctors put it down to my cerebral palsy and simply said that I had to live with it as there was nothing they could do.

This problem makes me very self-conscious, over the years people have bullied me for it and day-to-day I get snide looks from people because they are surprised that someone is dribbling into kitchen roll. I also get people making comments about it, saying things like "ewe, that is disgusting" or "look what he is doing." I don't know why people make a big deal over something I have no control over, it's not like I asked to be like this. So, as you can tell it has wiped my confidence.

The fears of choking still haunt me each day and it will always be at the back of my mind.

It is amazing how one event can change your life in an instant, one minute your life is fine and then it gets turned on its head.

As you may have guessed, it is because of my choking fear and dribbling is the soul reasons why I don't eat out. Maybe one day I will be able to put it all my fears behind me and be like other people, but until that day I will continue to try my hardest to ignore the fears and take each day as it comes.

### **All This Death Talk** \- 9 February 2013

Today I was planning to sleep in for a couple of hours, but my body had other plans to keep me awake. Saturdays in our house is the same every week, we all have breakfast while mum watches "Saturday Kitchen" on the TV. I don't see the interest in the show, it isn't like mum will make things from that show, if she did we would faint!

The pains in my legs have plagued me most of the day, it must have been all that walking yesterday, but saying that we didn't really walk far. I must admit that walking around has been very hard, mostly the pains are located in my knees, and from experience no matter how many painkillers I take; the pain will only numb rather than curing it.

As my boredom set in I started to read "The first last kiss," this is a book I brought a few days ago. I read past the first page and I started getting a bad headache, so that went out the window. Hannah (niece) was coming around today because my brother (Jeff) is coming to pick her up for a sleepover with my other niece Mia. Once they both get here they will be running me around everywhere so my boredom will soon disappear.

After mums program had finished, we just started having a general chat. The chat somehow got onto the subject of death, this is one subject I really hate listening too, let alone discuss it! When they started talking I instantly got up and walked out the room, it makes me feel physically sick even hearing about it.

If I had my way no one would die and life would be forever for everyone.

The utter thought of death pains full of fear and I personally have had breakdowns just thinking of the idea. I often think that there must be more to life itself, we can't just go through life and then be taken by death to look in the dark for the rest of eternity. If this was true then someone was playing a nasty joke when the world was created. I honestly believe that life will continue beyond your existing soul, and I will continue to live by that through my life, but like anything in life seeing is believing, only because we can't see what happens after death does not mean that an after life isn't possible. I am a man of no religious beliefs, but I am a man who believes in more than just the normal thought process.

Some people may call this illogical, crazy or insane, But as human beings we all predicate our own thoughts whether they are right or wrong.

The reason behind this thought process is very simple. When I was younger my great Gran passed away and a few months afterwards we had a visit from her, she sat on Laura's bed and pulled up her socks, Laura screamed help. Somehow along the line twenty minutes after, I woke up and without thinking I knocked on Laura's door. I asked her if she was okay, now I had no reason to do this and to this day I believe that my great Gran told my mind to checkup on her.

In the morning it became more apparent that great Gran was still in our house, the heating was on full and you could sense you weren't alone. Being very young at the time it scared me and I remember refusing to get my trainers from mum's room because I thought something bad will happen. Mum was starting to get very upset by what was happening and she had to openly asked great Gran to leave because it was starting to upset us. I know great Gran would never harm us or try to scare us, but at the time being young we didn't know what was going on.

As I look back on this event I know great Gran was only checking up on us. When she passed away we didn't get to say goodbye and I know this was her way of saying I am watching over you.

Whenever our family is in trouble there is always a white butterfly flying by, we always say that this is Gran watching over us.

As the afternoon went on I decided to play "Sleeping Dogs" on the playstation. When I downloaded this game it wasn't clear what the game was about, there was no screenshots or videos. So, I had to download it and find out myself.

The game is based in China and you're an undercover police officer working inside a gangster group. As you progress through the game you do jobs for people around the town and some of them involve fighting other gangs.

When I was learning how to fight the game went through many fighting moves, one of the moves demonstrated how you could grab someone and take their head off using a window shutter.

The fighting style incorporates karate and standard fighting moves, mostly the game focuses on using the traditional karate fighting style to add an authentic look.

The evening was finally here and I could relax, well I tried at least, but my body was still hurting and it was starting to annoy me! I have had all my painkillers on time, and I even took one anti spasm tablet to take the edge off of the spasms.

I think most of the time my body has become immune to the medication because when I first started taking it the pain used to be under control, but now I struggle to get any relief from them, it only takes the pain away for thirty minutes and flares back up again.

This is like going around in circles. If I don't take the tablets it makes me shake and crawling the floor with pain, and if I do take the tablets they give me side-effects. As I said before the tablets hardly work like they use too so that adds to it as well.

I will have to grin and bare it, nothing more I can do really, complaining won't cure it.

### **Over Thinking Sunday** \- 10 February 2013

As I look over the garden on this rainy Sunday I sit and wonder what I will be doing today. I have already started my day with a plateful of waffles and spaghetti, and I had all the cleaning done by 9am, apart from the hovering of course.

Today is the Chinese New Year; the year of the snake (蛇 She).

Here is a quote from a snake horoscope:

Ancient Chinese wisdom says a Snake in the house is a good omen because it means your family will not starve. This could be taken metaphorically to mean that a Snake could never have a problem with his family starving because he is such a great mediator, making him good at business. Or it could mean that a Snake would be willing to sacrifice his possessions, something the Snake has a lot of, in order to pay for his family's food. Any way it is interpreted is representative of the Snake's character and is a measure of the value he puts on his material wealth. The Snake is keen and cunning, quite intelligent and wise.

I spent most of my morning watching television and chatting on Twitter. The show "Big Question" was on and for some reason it always finds someway to annoy me, like this week they were banging on about how there should be a fat tax for people who are overweight.

This is discrimination in its purest form, it really annoys me, how can our government even think about putting this in place, we have human rights for a reason, and you can't take that right away from anyone.

The governments need to focus more on healthy eating, I am aware they have the "Change 4 Life" campaign, but there isn't many incentives for people to eat health or to lose weight. I must defend the government in way about this, some people expect to have everything handed to them on a plate and think the governments owe it to them. I fully commend those people who want to lose weight and eat healthy because they want to help themselves.

Those who lose weight are role models for those who are trying to achieve the same goal, the other majority who can't be bothered to lose weight cannot expect everything to be handed to them. As the old saying goes, you can only help yourself, no one can do it for you.

The afternoon came and I was starting to get very bad acid, this usually means my body is getting clogged up, and yes I know too much information, but it is true. I ended up taking two sets of medication because it was causing pain.

The tablets started taking the edge off the pain, but I could still feel an acid sensation across the back of my throat.

I don't know what came over me in the evening time, my depression just kicked in and I was doubting every part of my life. I know this may sound silly, but I suffer from this a lot, and in reality nothing has to be said or done to bring on these bad thoughts.

When I get like this, I start to doubt myself, books, and I start to think I have done something wrong. I know the reality is that I have done nothing wrong, but I can't seem to get past this block sometimes.

I have suffered from paranoia and anxiety for years now, it has messed with my head since I was thirteen years old, and I wish it would calm down at times because I feel that it is affecting friendships, family and my thinking process. Maybe I am wrong and this is all in my head just giving me grief or I am just allowing myself to over-think everything.

The best thing I can do is just ride the wave and let it all pass; I know my close friends and family will always be there for me, even through all my doubting and moaning they all stay to support me.

### **Cold Monday Morning** \- 11 February 2013

Monday started out cold with a light dusting of snow, it was a delightful change than the usual wet rainy days. When I woke up I had to force myself to get out of bed, it really wasn't easy because it was warmer in my bed and I didn't fancy pulling the covers off me to freeze my butt off, but unfortunately I had made plans with my sister (Laura) to grab a tea from the cafè and to get some food shopping.

We left the house at 8:15am, it was so bitter and the snow was flurrying in the air, with every flake that dropped to the ground it slowly melted as it laid softly on the ground.

The worst thing was I couldn't find my best leather coat, which mean't I had to use a thinner coat. I wasn't too pleased about using this coat, it couldn't keep me warm, in all honestly I would have been better off unbolting the hot radiator from the wall and strapping it to my back because it really couldn't keep me warm.

When we got to the cafè I went over and sat in our usual seats while Laura got our drinks, as usual I had my two drinks one hot chocolate and one tea. While I was waiting I browsed the internet on my iPhone to pass the time, I was mainly trying to catchup with comments on my social sites and checking half a dozen spam emails.

Finally ten minutes had passed later Laura arrives back at the table with our drinks, and noticeably she brought herself a hash brown panini sandwich. I always let her buy something small for her breakfast if it is early, it won't break the bank so it really doesn't matter.

I must have been in some sort of daydream because when we arrived at the cafè it barely had anyone sitting in there, and for some reason I wasn't paying any attention to my surroundings, all I did was focused on my drink and what we were talking about. When it came to leave I looked behind me and the whole place was packed, nearly every table was full.

While we were in Tesco I picked up a bit of shopping, and for a change we didn't buy any added extra's which was good, even though I had to resist the urge to buy another book.

The walk home definitely took its toll on me, everything was aching across my body, and to top it off the cold was turning my hands every shade of purple you could think of. I think next time I will remember to take my gloves with me because next time I won't feel like my fingers are going to fall off.

When we got home I was so glad, I could finally warm up and gain some sensation back into my fingers. I was also very hungry because I hadn't had breakfast yet and the last time I ate was the night before, so as you can imagine I was  really hungry and at the point I wasn't in the mood to wait around for a properly prepared meal.

With no time to waste I quickly placed all my food on the table along with my drinks, and obviously when you're in a rush you don't want anything to get in the way, but this is where my rush came to a standstill.

Mum went to use the landline, as she pressed the green button to make the call she noticed there was no dial tone, instantly I went over to my providers web page and checked whether there are any faults in my area. Turns out there was a major phone outage, the site itself didn't have much information about the fault so I decided that I would call them after I had eaten.

After I had eaten my food, I gave them a call from a backup landline telephone; I was half expecting to have an argument with them because this has happened previously. This time I was in luck, I got through to a woman who was very helpful. She totally understood my concerns and questions I had about their service, whether they take them on board is another thing altogether. I was told my phone line would be down for two days because someone had gone through a mains power cable.

I wasn't pleased about this because it meant we had to rely on our mobiles to contact people, and yet again the woman understood that this was a complete inconvenience. She offered us compensation, which is also known as a loss of service payment. This was fine with me because I shouldn't have to pay for those days I am without a phone line, even though I do understand that this problem wasn't their fault.

Once everything was agreed and clarified I just had to wait for the line to become active again.

The afternoon was in full swing and I started it out by having a long chat with my good friend Steve. I was really grateful for Steve's phone call because over the last few days I have felt very doubtful and the call helped me get a lot things off my chest. I have some fantastic friends, even though it is only a few people, those people make a huge difference in my life. While I remember I want to also thank Carl for being there for me in my time of need, both of you are amazing and I will treasure our friendships every second of each day.

Once I had finished on the phone to Steve I felt like learning a new song on the guitar. I had one song in mind and that was unchained melody, the best love songs of all time. Within ten minutes I had found the chords and I had learned the song. I have listened to that song many times in my life, so it wasn't much of a surprise when it came to playing the tune.

After an hour of playing the guitar, it was time to rest and settle down for the evening. I didn't want to push myself like I normally do because it makes me very tired and when I get tired it sets off my depression, and the last thing I want is that plaguing me all night long.

Today has defiantly been a good day, well apart from the minor hiccups of course, but like all of us we have ups and downs. 

### **No Pancakes, and No Energy** \- 12 February 2013

Today started out with a complete lack of energy and the inability to get myself motivated. I had a silly plan last night to have an early night, but it didn't work out that way.

The motivation finally kicked in, and with every bit of strength I pulled the covers off, then I continued to hobble into the kitchen to make a cup of tea and golden syrup weetobix, if you saw the way I walked into the kitchen you would have thought I was constipated.

Once I prepared my breakfast I went back through to the living room and placed it on the table. I did my usual, switched the television on and watched Frasier on Channel four.

After breakfast, I still felt like my energy hadn't picked up and I knew that I was going to struggle with this all day. Most of the morning was spent resting on sofa and drinking plenty of tea. When I get like this, I have to make sure I drink plenty because it keeps my sugar levels regulated, and, if I don't it will make me sleep all day.

The best part about my morning was seeing Amber (niece), I always love seeing all my nieces because they always make me smile, and it always helps take my mind off the pain.

Amber was suffering from a cold today, she was sick while Cassie (sister) dropped Hannah (niece) off at school. I tried holding Amber while Cassie was helping mum clean the kitchen, I didn't hold her for long because she was feeling poorly and wanted her mum.

Anyway, today is pancake day and most of Britain will partake in the tradition of tossing pancakes, and smothering them in huge amounts sugar. I won't be having any pancakes this year because I haven't got the energy to make any, I know they are very easy to make, but this time I will have to give it a miss.

The afternoon consisted of me repeating what I did in the morning, the lack of energy wasn't going to go any time soon.

While in pain I decided to watch "Only Fools and Horses" to try to take my mind off it. I always laugh at Delboy because he uses French phrase and tries to act like he knows the language, but in reality when he does use the phrases he is completely wrong; for example he will say Bonjour when he says goodbye to someone on the telephone.

If you have never heard about this show, it is a British based sitcom that is set in Peckham in the south of London.   The show stars David Jason who plays the lead role of the ambitious market trader. Delboy always had many quotes, but the most recognized was "This time next year, we will be millionaires." This saying wouldn't come true until very later on in the series, where they finally had a strike of luck.

I have been watching this show since I was really young, and I still watch it now 24 years later. So, if you haven't seen it before then check it out online, but chances are if you live in the United Kingdom you will have seen it twenty times over because of the repeats.

Back to my evening, I haven't got anything planned and I don't plan on doing anything apart from having an early night.

### **Late Night Energy Burst** \- 13 February 2013

The day started as the last one ended, that's right I have been awake all night, and this time it wasn't because of pain. I spent most of the night messing around in photoshop making book covers for upcoming book launches, I don't know where this sudden burst of energy came from, but I wasn't going to let it go to waste.

Once the morning started Laura (sister) went across to Cassie's (sister) house to pick up Hannah (niece) and Amber (niece), Hannah needed dropping off at school and Amber was coming round ours for the day.

As I mentioned recently, Amber hasn't been feeling well and today was no exception. She was sick a couple of times because her stomach was upset, luckily enough she slept most of the day so, there is a good chance she will sleep it off and get better soon.

The day didn't get busy until later in the afternoon, myself & Laura had to collect Hannah from school, but I had to get shopping before collecting Hannah. I couldn't face taking Hannah to the shop because I always give in when she asks for sweets. I always spoil my nieces and I know sometimes I should say no, but I am a pushover and I give in too easily.

After a quick dash around the shop, we went across and collected Hannah from school. The walk home was bitterly cold, for the life of me I wasn't going to take my hands out of my pockets.

While we were walking home Hannah started to talk about things she did when she was a baby. I remember loads of things Hannah done as a baby, one of the funniest moments was when she tried her first ice lolly and it ended up melting everywhere so, she decided to spread it all over herself and the table. Hannah found it amusing, she was in fits of giggles and her laughter was like a little old cackling witch.

When we got home I kept my coat on for a while, it was still cold and I needed to warm up. Dad laughed and said it isn't cold, obviously I must be living in some sort of cold bubble or something because it certainly was cold.

I ended up taking my coat off and continued to make a milky hot chocolate with loads of sugar; I have a really sweet tooth for sugar, when I put sugar into the cup I just pour it out of the container instead of getting a spoon.

Skipping ahead a few hours. The evening was in full swing, and as always it was quiet. As it was quiet I used this time to write parts of my book, it started out very easy, until I had to think and writer's block started kicking me mind seven ways from Sunday.

Writer's block is my ultimate enemy, it is like having a little person in your head that sweeps all your ideas under a carpet waiting for you to find them again.

After an hour, I ended up writing a couple of pages for my book, it really wasn't easy, but I got there in the end. I think it is time for an early night, my gallbladder has started hurting again and I feel really tired.

### **Hip Pains, and Redneck talk** \- 14 February 2013

As the day started, it greeted me with almighty pains across my left hip. I am definitely feeling the pain, it feels like someone is stabbing me with a hot knife.  I knew that I had to push past the pain because I had a busy day ahead.

I staggered out of bed at around 9pm, and believe me that was a struggle, my hip was pulling with every step I took.

Skipping ahead an hour in time, we decided to go into town for a quick bit of shopping, and of course no shopping trip is complete without a Costa coffee. There was one thing we needed to do before we could go to town and that was to take Laura (sister) to the hospital for her blood test, don't worry it isn't anything life-threatening, well it is hormonal so it could be life-threatening just to us instead.

After thirty minutes of waiting around the hospital, Laura finally went in to have her blood taken. While she was having that taken I sat with mum in the waiting area. We were both bored and had no choice to have a few laughs. The funniest part was when we heard Laura laugh, she sounded like a drunk redneck who drank too much beer. Myself and mum were in stitches with laughter, and it didn't help matters when I started doing impressions of a redneck every time she laughed.

Laura finally emerged from the cubical, she walked towards us smiling and said what are you two laughing about? While laughing we just replied oh nothing, don't worry. If she only knew that we were laughing about her, I think she would have slapped me all around that hospital if she knew the truth.

So with Laura's blood taken, we headed into town. As always our first priority was to get a drink from Costa, no shopping trip would the same without a quick drink from Costa, and it was even better because it was free!

I had a bit of a change this time, instead of having two large teas I had one tea and one hot chocolate. I know it may seem weird having two drinks, but I will explain this later on.

After we drank our drinks, we headed off to a clothes shop called Primark, I think I mentioned this previously when I went to town with my sister Cassie.

When we got closer to the shop I said to mum that I needed to use the toilet, I tried to run, but with this bad hip I just completely failed. Once I got into the toilet I noticed a woman was in there cleaning, might I add there were no signs up at the time saying a female cleaner was inside.

This didn't really trouble me, until I needed to urinate. I don't know if everyone is the same, but it always hard to urinate in front of the opposite sex.

Anyway, enough toilet talk. I went back to find mum in Primark. She was on the second floor browsing through some of the tops, at this point I was getting bored and very hot. I told mum that I would meet them outside because I needed to get some fresh air. So, I gave mum my card and headed outside. I was safe to let mum use my card, it wasn't like she could buy the whole shop.

When I got outside I decided to give Steve a call, it defiantly passed the time because not long after mum came and found me. I was surprised how quick they were, maybe it was that warning I gave mum about not spending too much on my card that hurried them along.

Skipping ahead again another hour. I wanted find some new books in WHSmith. After a few minutes it became clear that they had nothing I wanted, which is surprising because every time we go to Tesco I always find a book I want. After this, I started to feel very annoyed because I wanted to buy a new book. I must have been really annoyed because I walked out of the shop and told mum I was walking back to the car. So with this said, me and mum went back to the car and waited for Laura to meet us. To be honest with you it wasn't just the book situation that annoyed me, it was more to do with the pain I had in my hip.

If you suffer from pain, you will know that it can cause frustration when something doesn't go right, it causes you to become stressed or even depressed.

After about ten minutes, Laura met us back at the car and we finally headed back home. I was so relieved at this point because I could get home and have some painkillers, and a small meal to see me through until dinner.

I want to quickly go back to something I mentioned earlier about having two drinks. The reason for having two drinks is kind of simple, I have massive fears about choking. I buy two drinks to give me the reassurance that if I choke I will have another drink there to help clear it. Some people may see this as weird, but oh well, life goes on!

So in the end today was a good day, well apart from the pain in my hip, and the obvious mood swing at the end.

The rest of my day was spent relaxing and keeping myself topped up with painkillers. After all that walking, it had knocked the energy right out of me. I think the best thing I can do is have an early night, after all, it won't hurt to stay in bed for a bit longer.

### **Russian Meteor, and Religion** \- 15 February 2013

Today started out with a surprise bit of news, Russia had been hit by meteor strike. The meteor was said to weigh around 10 tones and it entered the earths atmosphere at 33,000 MPH.

I can't wait to see some of the news posted about this because you know there will be some religious nut groups who will say that god wanted this to happen and that the people deserved to be injured. These religious groups must live some sad lives, they don't realize that we are surrounded by meteors that hit the earth regularly, it isn't an act of god, it is reality, no one made it happen. I have seen these groups wish people to hell because they wouldn't follow what they told them to do. These groups are just cults and they use forms of media to spread their hateful message, and might I add they publicly throw celebrations when people are killed during tragic disasters. That isn't a religion that is just a few people with a messed up mentality about this world, and all it comes down to is control & attention seeking. This view maybe seen as wrong, but in any country you have the right to your own opinion and this is my opinion.

These groups sicken me, you don't celebrate when someone dies, for a start its none of your damn business. The funniest thing is when you ask these groups a question, they can't think for themselves, it is all out of a book, might I add that was written millions of years ago and rewritten several hundred times, it is just a big story, it will not save and nor will it be something you base your whole world around because you are wasting your time.

I am in no way against religion or people who choose to live by religion, but what I am against is when religion dictates your life.  You have to understand that you are in control of your own destiny, no religion is allowed to take this right from you.

Anyway this religious talk is starting to bore me to death, let's move on and talk about my day. After all the news reports, I decided to go through my monthly finances, it needed to be done because I hadn't updated my spreadsheet for over a month now.

As I was going through the numbers it became apparent that I could save myself money by canceling a few outgoings, which was surprising because it saved me a big chunk of money each month.

After I got all that sorted, we decided to do some shopping and grab a quick hot chocolate. The walk there was okay, but it was still cold, not really cold, but you could feel the cold wind hit your face.

When we got there I sat down in a chair and waited for Laura (sister) to bring over the hot chocolates. I didn't want to be sat around there all day, so when she came back with the drinks I ended up drinking them really fast, and yes it was two drinks again.

I want to skip ahead to the evening time because there is nothing major to report, well unless you like reading about the usual dribble, and if you are expecting this then you are going to be really disappointed.

As the evening set in, I found myself writing again and thinking of new story ideas. I came up with a few ideas, but I am always in two minds whether I should finish the story or not. Maybe I should finish one story at a time and keep the ideas for another time, after all, there is any rush.

Anyway, hopefully I will be able to have an early night tonight, but the chances are I won't because everyone stays up late in this house.

### **Gran Turismo, and Rejection** \- 16 February 2013

The weekend is upon us again, and I had pure determination not to rush anything. I got up around 8:30am, instead of rushing out of bed, I casually pulled the duvet off of me and sat up slowly. I hadn't made any plans, so it was a free day for me.

After I had my breakfast, I decided to go up to my room and play on the Playstation for a while. I hadn't played on it in over a week at this point and I needed to catch up on Gran Turismo. I have an addiction to this game, after all, I am male and anything motor sport related keeps us hooked.

The game is geared towards modifying your own cars and as you go through each event you earn credits to buy more cars or modifications for existing cars in your garage.

This morning I had to buy a new car because I needed it for an event I wanted to enter. The event itself had only one restriction and that was each car must be made in Germany, with only a few cars to choose from in my garage I had no choice, but to buy a new car. I had to put my thinking cap on because I couldn't remember which manufactures were German, the only one that I could remember was BMW. So with that said, I went across to the BMW dealership page and looked through their range of cars. I had to keep in mind that the event I was entering would contain other cars that were heavily modified for performance, and the car I required needed to be fully customizable.

I ended up finding a BMW M5, 08 edition for one hundred and thirty-two thousand credits, it was stylish and it also appealed to my inner speed ninja.  The car itself was only basic, it only had standard parts, which wouldn't get me far for the event it was being entered into. So this meant I had to spend extra credits to buy all the mods. I was lucky in a way because I had over one million credits that I had won in a previous event.

After ten minutes, I had the car fully modified and ready to race. The modifications worked perfectly because I won the event and I ended up lapping everyone in each race.

During the event I received a text message from one of my best friends Steve, which meant I had to pause the game, but I don't mind that because it wouldn't take me two minutes to get back in the zone again.

After a couple of texts back and forward, I told Steve about the new car I had brought on the game, he seemed really interested about it. So being me, I said I would give him the same car to see how he got on with it. I don't know if he has been on his Playstation yet to test it out, but I am sure he will love it.

Skipping ahead a couple hours. I remembered I needed to call Carl, who is also another one of my best friends. The call wasn't for anything particular, it was more of a catchup call because I didn't have time during the week to ring him. As I have mentioned before, both Steve and Carl are two amazing people and they have stuck by me through all my ups and downs.

While I was on the phone to Carl, my niece Hannah came upstairs and asked me if she could play Little big planets on my Playstation, I tried explaining that she could, but she needed to wait until I had finished on the phone and she also had to wait until I finished the event in Gran Turismo. She took it onboard that she had to wait, but if you know anything about children their idea of patients and time goes out of the window when they are waiting for something they want to do, every two minutes Hannah would ask me if I had finished yet and I would tell her no, not until this event is finished.

After ten minutes, I said to Carl that I would ring him back later, which he said that was okay, but I felt like I was being rude by going as quick as I did.

Once I had put the phone down, my sister (Cassie) shouted up and said come we are going to the park. This meant I had to go with them, which was fine because I needed to get out the house for some fresh air.

Skipping ahead to the walk in the park. As we were walking through the park, I started to think about things that were playing on my mind. I had this one thought that wouldn't go away, it was about rejection and those who have rejected me over the years. The rejection feeling stems from years of being rejected by so-called friends and even girlfriends. When it comes to rejection, I take it to heart and I start to think that I have done something to make it happen, the likelihood is that people just don't want to know me anymore or even care about me. I don't know maybe I am wrong, maybe I am just over thinking it, who knows really because people chop and change their minds more than anything these days.

What I don't understand is when people suddenly stop talking to you and they ignore your calls or texts, it is like they are saying screw you I don't want to know anymore. I always find that this way is very harsh, you should be allowed to know why they don't want to talk anymore, after all that would be the adult thing to do.

Anyway, enough of this rejection stuff, people are going to do what they're going to do no matter what happens.

Once we had reached the main playing area, I sat down on the bench and just watched the world go by. I needed to relax, these thoughts were starting to trigger my depression and that is the last thing I want to happen. After about twenty minutes, we all walked across to the pond to feed the ducks. I decided just to watch on because the grass near the pond was all muddy and I didn't want to get more mud over my trainers.

So, with the ducks fed, it was time to head home. I enjoyed the short walk with everyone, but I didn't enjoy those mind wrenching thoughts that plagued me for twenty minutes.

When I got home I needed to have lunch and take some medication, everything was aching and I needed the pain to stop, which it did after I had them.

The rest of my day was spent playing Gran Turismo again, you wouldn't believe how relaxed that game makes me because all the bad thoughts completely disappeared and it meant I was able to play the game with a clear mind.

Skipping ahead to the evening. As the evening came, I became really tired. I think that walk to the park had knackered me out, or it could have been that four straight hours of game play in the afternoon, either way I had fun during both activities so I don't care.

So, today was an easy day and fun was enjoyed by all.

### **Sunday Sinus Cold** \- 17 February 2013

Today started out with a lack of sleep and an almighty sinus infection. I ended up going to sleep at 2:30am. After feeling completely rejected yesterday, I couldn't settle my mind, it was kicking thoughts around my head. Most of the night was spent waking up every hour, I felt very unsettled and tired.

After I had breakfast, I decided to play on the Playstation. I wasn't in any sort of mood to do anything productive, well apart from a little bit of writing in the evening of course.

The morning flew by, when I started playing on it the time was 10am, and when I had finished it was 2pm. I was completely knackered, it got to the point where my eyes felt really heavy and the room felt like it was spinning, it was like someone had spun me around a million times and I was  ready to throw up everywhere!

While I was playing the Playstation, I started to upgrade some cars that I already had in my Gran Turismo garage.

I didn't really want to waste credits on newer cars because it would be a complete waste.

The car I focused on was a classic 1969 Volkswagen Beetle, it was a complete random choice, and it was also a risk to my credits because it wasn't very upgradeable.

So, after I upgraded the Beetle, it was ready to hit the race track to give it a good old run around. The race started out fantastically well, everything was going along smoothly, until I reached the first corner. When I turned into the corner it suddenly started lifting the opposite side I was turning, so if I turned it left, it would lift the right side of the car. I tried many configurations, but it was still trying to rollover. The only way it stayed on the ground was when I put the suspension down low, and as I said before it still didn't solve the problem.

As the race went on, the problem became easier to deal with. The actual problem was due to weight and speed, so as you turned sharply it would lift, but this all depended on how fast you were going.

Anyway let's move on a couple of hours. As the afternoon set in, I started to feel even more sick. This sinus infection was certainly running me into the ground and no matter what I did, it didn't want to settle down. I don't know if you have guessed, but I suffer from colds, flu's and infections a lot. I don't know if this will sound right, but I don't mind if I get a small cold. I know this seems weird, but there are some advantages about getting a cold, you tend to get hungry and this means you can eat loads of food.

The rest of my afternoon was spent talking with my best friend Steve on FaceTime, we had some good laughs as always. After I spoke with Steve, I spent time with my nieces, Hannah and Mia. They didn't run me around like they usually do, which was an advantage for me because I didn't have it in me to run around anyway.

Skipping ahead to the evening. Everyone had finally gone home and I could finally start writing again. I don't even know if it will go to plan, but I will wait and see what happens. I will probably do myself a favor and go to bed early.

### **Friends, and inspiration** \- 18 February 2013

The day started out cold and foggy, it isn't massively cold, just a light chill that can be felt throughout the house. I hope the weather starts warming up soon, spring is just around the corner and hopefully it will bring some sunshine.

Somehow the weather read my mind, the sun came out in all it's glory and there is nothing, but blue skies. This is such a change in events, the morning was cold and foggy and shortly after, it started warming up.

I always love the start of spring; freshly cut grass, flowers blossoming and warmer days, it utterly blissful! The only downside to spring is that wasps start to appear from nowhere, and might I add I hate the little pests! They're like little ninja killers with wings, and come out from nowhere to give you a right sting!

Skipping back to the early hours of this morning. I was having a chat with my best friend Steve. We were talking about how blogging has helped us both focus our minds, and how we inspire each other to carry on blogging.

Steve has always been a big inspiration to me, when I wanted to learn about photography, he spent many hours with me on the phone teaching me the basics of photography. I have come along way with Steve's guidance,   throughout the last year I have taken over one thousand pictures and some of the ones I have taken people have really loved them.

The most important thing Steve has inspired to do, was to carry on writing books. I initially wrote my first book in 2010 and it was a small success, but months afterwards I felt that  my writing abilities were substandard and I couldn't get past that thought, so with that playing on my mind, I gave up writing for whole year. When I met Steve later that year, I expressed to him how I wanted to progress more with my writing, again we sat for hours talking, coming up with story ideas. The funniest part was when we took those story ideas and twisted them completely, we just let our mind's wonder down the road of fifth and funnies.

When it came to writing I didn't have much knowledge on how to deal with grammar or how to construct a story that would until the end. This is where Steve helped me again, I received a package in the post, which took me by surprise. As I opened the package a book fell out, it was a book called how to write your life story, inside the book, it teaches you many writing styles and techniques that you could use in your own writing.

I couldn't thank Steve enough for sending the book because it has helped me tremendously. When I am writing I purposely have the book next to me so I am able to use it as a reference.

If it wasn't for Steve inspiring me, I wouldn't have written my other books, and this is a fact because I lost focus after writing my first book and the inspiration pushed me to carry on, no matter what I thought or how I felt.

So, if I had anyone to thank for the success of my books, it would be to Steve, with this said I send big thanks to Steve and one lasting message, your inspiration will never be forgotten and if I ever make big, remember it was because of you and I will make sure I look after you, will a sports car be okay?

The most of my morning was spent with Hannah (niece) singing along with music on my phone and playing Angry Birds Star Wars on the MacBook. She is a little master when it comes to that game, when we get stuck on the game we ask her to do the level and you can bet any money that she will pass the level.

I forgot to mention yesterday that Hannah was staying with us last night and tonight. She is off this week because her school is on half term, so mum arranged that she could stay over for a couple of days.

Skipping ahead to the evening. I spent some time on the Playstation (again) racing around on Gran Turismo 5, the one thing I remembered to do was to buy the BMW M5, 08 for Mark (another best friend). I was going to buy it when I did Steve's car during the week, but I was running low on credits. Before I could buy the car, I had to do a couple of events, it was lucky I had a few fast cars, so it didn't take me long to complete the events to get enough credits to buy Mark's car for him.

The reason I wanted to buy the car for Mark & Steve was because we play online together and I wanted us to have a race together using the same car.

I love our races online because if you have any stress, you can burn it up on the race track, and the best part is we have a laugh together. The one thing we laugh about is how  we try to knock each other off the road, or one of us tries to undercut on the track (I never do that, even though Mark & Steve do not believe me, don't know why...)

So, after all that fun, I started to relax myself for the evening. I am hoping that I will have an early night, but I will wait and see what happens.

### **Sneezing Sickness** \- 19 February 2013

Well, today started out with more aches and pains. I tried my best to get out of bed, but for the life of me, I really couldn't get up. The pain in my back and legs were terrible, I felt really stiff (excuse the obvious crude pun), and with every move I made the pain would shoot across my body.

After ten minutes, I finally pulled myself together and sat up on the sofa. I couldn't really decide what to do, one part of me was saying I can't be bothered to move, but then other part of me was saying go grab a hot chocolate from Costa Coffee. I was in such a dilemma, do I resist the urge to have a smooth hot chocolate, or do I stay at home and be a  lazy bugger? I bet you can guess the one I chose, and I am not ashamed to admit that a healthy addiction to Costa Coffee hot chocolate.

The walk to Costa Coffee was bitterly cold, my nose and ears felt like pins were being put through them. I was finding it hard to breathe because the air was freezing and it felt like I was breathing through a small straw, obviously I could breathe, if I couldn't I wouldn't be here writing this obviously, but it just felt like I couldn't breathe.

When I arrived at Costa Coffee I sat down in our usual seats, and I waited for Laura's partner (David) to bring the drinks over. I had my normal, two cups of hot chocolates with a load of sugar and David had a cup of tea. As I sat there looking over at the window, I just gazed across and watched the world go by as I slowly drank my boiling hot chocolate. The hot chocolate felt like I was drinking fire, with every mouthful I took I had to softly blow on my drink so that it would cool down enough to drink.

Once we finished our drinks, we made our way downstairs into to Tesco to pick up some shopping. I only wanted to buy a little bit of shopping to see me through until tomorrow. While we were going around the shop I felt my stomach fill with wind, the reason for this was that I hadn't had anything to eat. As went down a couple of isles, I felt my stomach become more tense, I couldn't hold it in, and suddenly I let out one of the loudest farts ever! I don't know why people were giving me looks of disgust, it wasn't like I could hold it in, I was going to explode if I didn't let it out.

After we picked up all the shopping, we headed back home to finally rest and have something to eat.

When we got home I started to make a small breakfast, and I use that term loosely because it consisted of three mince beef and onion pasties, which I would later regret eating. After I ate breakfast, I decided to take it easy because cold was starting to get worse, and over doing it would make me feel even worse.

So, as you might have guessed, my day has consisted of sneezing, coughing, taking medication and farting. I know, I bet your thinking why did he highlight farting? Well, the simple answer is the ultimate truth. I have been farting all day, and before you ask, yes I did use the toilet, but it still didn't stop them occurring throughout the day. If I carry on farting like I am, I think I will cause a hole in the ozone layer and NASA will have to put me on their radar so they know if I cause any more damage to the world.

Sneezing has been another thing annoying me all day, every five minutes I have sneezed, how can one person produce so much mucus? I have gone through three kitchen rolls already, and it is lucky that I am going back to Tesco tomorrow to pick up some more shopping, if I didn't I would have to start using couch pillows to sneeze into.

After reading through that part, I bet most of you laughed and thought, Marc your one sick person. Keep in mind that my humor is lighthearted, but also wacky. I don't intend to cause offense, but you either love me or hate me, either way, I still carry on being who I am regardless what anyone thinks, and if people don't like it then that's their problem not mine.

Anyway, as the evening came in, I sat and watched television. I couldn't be bothered doing anything else, being this sick knocks it out of you and the energy levels just go to an ultimate low. The evening at most was relaxing, it was a welcome change from the normal daily grind.

So, on this final note, it is time for bed. Well, that's if I don't sneeze to death or pull my back in the meantime.

### **Town life, and inspiration** \- 20 February 2013

Well, after that long day of sneezing yesterday, I thought I would have cleared most of this cold, ha, wasn't I wrong! Today started out with a bitter walk to Tesco, it was a needs must situation, I ran out of kitchen roll and I wasn't going to use toilet paper, one sneeze and you will blow a hole though it.

Anyway, skipping ahead. We got the shopping and we got back home in record time. If I remember we left at 9am and got home at 10:10am, not bad for a quick shop, and I didn't even have a Costa Coffee.

As we got through the door, mum decided to tell me that everyone was heading into the town and asked would I like to come? I replied well, okay then, but I want to grab a Costa Coffee while we were there. This of course was fine with mum, as she loves Costa Coffee just as much as me.

Before I knew it, we were away into town. I really wished I wore a better jumper because the wind had picked up and it was rattling through that town, and it was bitterly cold. The first stop made was to Costa Coffee. While I think of it, maybe I should get Costa Coffee to sponsor my blogs, after all I mention them a lot, sponsor please? Now who's wishful thinking? Anyway, back to what I was talking about. I had my usual two drinks, but with a slight change, instead of having hot chocolate on its own, I had a shot of caramel with it. That went down a treat, and I think I will have that every time I go to that Costa Coffee. I would love to get it from my local Tesco Costa Coffee, but it is only a franchise, and they don't do the shots like the proper Costa Coffee's.

So, we finished up our drinks and headed towards the shops. I always hate this part, it means I have to part with money, not much just enough to make want to cringe. I don't mind spending money on my family, but my mum must think I am some sort of bank because she always gets anything she asks for, this isn't a bad thing, and I am not complaining, but I just wished she picked a better time to spend money. So, mother next time, find a suitable date, only joking, after everything you and dad have done for me, you both deserve the earth. I know I wasn't the easiest child to bring up, after all the problems, you and dad were there standing by my side every step of the way. I couldn't wish for better parents, and no this isn't a suck up, it is simply the god's honest truth.

I have book in the making that will explain everything about my life and how my parents have turned their whole world around for me, and once you read it, you will fully understand me why.

Skipping a head several hours. We were finally home and to say the least glad. I did my usual, switched the kettle on and made a quick cup of tea. I brought myself something new to try, they were milk chocolate ice-creams. They went down a treat, apart from when I read they contained Soya milk, which I am allergic too. So, with a belly full of Soya milk, I had to ride the waves of stomach spasms, lucky I have medication to prevent it from flaring up badly.

After I had eaten, I decided to play on Gran Turismo. I didn't do any race events today, I just wanted to look round the dealership for another car that I had my eye on. The car was a classic Subaru Impreza, which is a classic rally car. First, I started out by modifying all the parts to the highest level possible, if that isn't greedy I don't know what is! Then, I painted the car light blue and changed the wheel rims to gold to match the original car. So, the only thing I had left to do was to take it out on the track for a test drive. When I took the car around the track, it didn't seem to have the power and control I was expecting, as I turned each corner the car kept on going off. I can only assume that the car requires more configuring before it will be up to racing standards.

After many hours of playing Gran Turismo, the evening was in full swing and it was time to unwind. The evening times always brings out my creative side, I sit on my sofa and think of new story ideas that people might love. I have sat for hours sometimes just thinking, thinking of what I could release next. The hardest part about writing new stories is bringing across to the reader as something new and exciting. I could write several stories in a week, but only one of them would make sense. This story writing isn't a waste, after all every story can be completed and enjoyed by millions of people if you put the time and effort into bringing the story together.

So, if there is one piece of advice I can give to new authors, and that would be never give up, even if you think it is rubbish, never give up faith, a true story comes from the heart, and you find that your work will be loved by millions of people, your needing the reassurance that you're not wasting your time, but time is great. And, those who love your will carry on supporting you, through good and bad.

Anyway, it is time for me to sign off and retire to my bed. I do hope that I have inspired many people with this post, and remember one thing, life is complex and it will test our full abilities, so when it throws you a lemon, just make lemonade and ride the wave we call life.

### **Early Call, and Package** \- 21 February 2013

The day started out with pains through my gut, lucky I knew what they were because some people mistaken it for a grumbling appendix. I am going to skip over the obvious reason why, but during the time I was in the toilet, the phone rang and since it was early, I quickly jumped off the toilet and ran into the living with my jeans around my ankles. I picked up the phone and said: hello, nobody replied, so I stood there waiting for about 10 seconds and suddenly it started ringing. After all that, a voice piped up and said they other person has cleared. I wouldn't mind, but that could have been something important since it was 7:10am. I can only guess the call was from a call centre that wanted to find out if I had been miss sold PPI insurance, wish they would stop ringing because I know I haven't and no matter how much I tell them, they go on like they know your financial situation better than you do.

Anyway, enough about that, but thanks for waking me up! The day started out really cold and it was lucky I didn't have to go out because I would end up with body parts dropping off. As I sit here writing, the heavens have opened and snow is flurrying in the air. I had a feeling that it would snow today because the temperature was staying at a steady 1c and you could feel the bitterness in the air.

After an hour of chatting to one of my best friends Mark, we decided to play Gran Turismo on the Playstation. We didn't do any head to head races, we just tried beating each others times around the track. During the game I was repeatedly disconnected because my wifi connection would become overloaded.

After a couple of hours went by, I had to sign off so I could take my medication, and the constant drop outs were starting to annoy so the timing was great.

When I was getting something to eat, I was interrupted by a knock at the door, it was the postman, he had a package for me. The package was from my best friend Steve, he sent me a new Big Bang Theory T-shirt, two iPhone docks (one for mum and one for me), Polar Express (for Hannah) and a Borat Mankini. I laughed when I saw the Mankini, but I don't think I will be wearing it any time soon, maybe I will wear it in a photo or a video, time will tell.

I really love the new T-shirt, the quote on the shirt says I am not insane my mother had me tested. The shirt is fantastic, I know some people might think that's weird, but I don't care I love it!

Mum and I really love the iPhone docks, they work perfect, and now mum can stop moaning at me about nicking my other stand, she sends a big thank you. I also can't thank you enough for the gifts, you are a true blue friend.

When I finished up lunch, it was time to move my cable modem upstairs. I was glad that I was moving the modem upstairs because I could take full advantage of my 120mb connection speed without any dropouts. This also means I can play on the Playstation and not get disconnected, which I am very pleased about because it was starting to get really annoying.

After a short while, Cassie and the gang came around. Hannah (niece) was her usual self, she gave me a big cuddle as always. I gave her the DVD sent and she was really happy, she said thank you Mr. Steve. Amber (niece) was lovely as always, she spent most of the time asleep, wish I could sleep that much.

Hannah is staying over tomorrow, which will be fun, but it also means I will lose my Playstation again. I don't mind her playing on it at all, it keeps them quiet after all, but sometimes I want to play it as well.

Anyway, I have started to feel much better after this morning's pain attack, and I think this cold has started to disappear, I knew it wouldn't take long, but it is always rubbish when I have a cold because I feel like I am dying.

I think I was wishful thinking because after a few hours on Gran Turismo again, I started to feel sick again and the cough was back again, at least the sneezing has stopped.

Before, I bore you all, I think it is time for me to rest. This cold is really starting to hit me and after waking up early in pain, it has all started to catch up with me.

### **Friday Fail** \- 22 February 2013

The day started with a very light dusting of snow, and when I say light I mean it, someone could rub more dandruff out their hair and make a bigger pile. I do hope this cold weather goes away soon, my body doesn't take cold weather well because it gets into my bone's and causes pain.

So, it is Friday again. I can't believe the week has flown by, and I thought winter was meant to be the longer months, I must be living in a faster dimension because each day flies by really fast.

As I mentioned yesterday Hannah (niece) is staying over tonight, she has been looking forward to it all week, we were meant to have her tomorrow, but she has to go and see her other grandparents, which is completely fair because we get to see Hannah most of the time. I wonder how long it will take before Hannah asks about playing on the Playstation, I do hope it isn't too soon because I want to have my daily drive on Gran Turismo.

Talking about Gran Turismo, I finally got up to one million credits again, I know it isn't something big, but I have worked hard to get it (yes I know, I am sad, get over yourself). I previously had one million credits and I ended up wasting all of it on so-called high performance cars that were complete failures.

I feel so tired today, it feels like I haven't slept all night. This might be because I went to bed late again, to be honest this shouldn't be effecting me, I slept most of the evening so I don't understand why I feel like this. I definitely won't get an early night tonight because I am sleeping on the sofa and everyone goes to bed late in this house.

Anyway, after a couple of hours, I decided to go downstairs to have some food. I wasn't really in the mood for anything big, so I just had yogurts and an ice- cream. I made my family laugh, it is snowing outside, and I am chomping down an ice-cream. My mum said to me: only you could eat an ice-cream while it is snowing outside, I just laughed and replied well, I don't care, food is food, I am going to eat it anyway.

Once I had finished my food, I went upstairs to do some drawing. I can't remember the last time I did some proper drawing, it must have been a couple of months at least.

Last year I went through a big drawing stage where I would spend hours drawing different cartoons, each drawing took a minimum of eight hours to complete, and this didn't include any colouring.

After a disastrous drawing session, I decided to give up because it wasn't going to plan and I was starting to get frustrated. The best thing I can do is stick my feet up and rest, maybe I should play the Playstation while I have a chance because I know Hannah will be playing it later on with Laura (sister).

Well, that didn't go to plan, I ended up feeling really faint and I had to lay down. After five minutes of playing the Playstation, I could feel my head become heavy, it felt like a dead weight had been dropped on my head. So before I completely collapsed, I jumped into my bed and just fell asleep.

After I woke up, I went downstairs to make some food, but this time something more nutritional. I ended up making some spaghetti from a tin. When I finished that myself and Laura needed to go across to Tesco to grab some shopping.

Anyway, to be brief we got the shopping and got back home. I feel terrible, but the walk done me the world of good.

So, the day is at an end, and it is time for me to rest, but I will leave you with this joke.

_How do frogs die? They Kermit suicide.  _

### **Cold day, and Warming chat** \- 23 February 2013

Today started out with a gentle tap from Hannah (niece) and a big cuddle, she said morning Marcy (Marky) it is time to wake up. So, with that said I got up and headed towards the kitchen. I switched the kettle on and made myself & Hannah a cup of tea, which she didn't drink might I add, she decided to eat six of my yogurts instead.

After we ate our breakfast, Hannah thought it was a great idea to pull around everywhere and jump on me. While Hannah was running me ragged, everyone finally decided to get out their pits and come downstairs.

Anyway, skipping over the usual routine, it was time to get Hannah ready to go home. As I mentioned previously, Hannah was going to see her other grand parents today, so she had to go home early.

After Hannah went home, we decided to head over to the park for a walk and to take some pictures. I wanted to have a walk because I didn't want to start feeling faint, like I did yesterday.

While we were walking towards the park, the snow started coming down even more, which started battering me in the face, keep in mind it has been snowing since yesterday morning and none of it has settled on the ground. The weather was really bitter, as the cold breeze hit my face, it sent shooting pains up my nose into my sinuses, and yes that was painful, it felt like someone was putting pins in my face.

After twenty minutes of taking pictures, we decided to head home because the cold breeze was hitting us and making us feel really cold, every time I took a picture it felt like my fingers were going to drop off.

When we got home I only had one thing on my mind, and that was to get the kettle on to make a cup of tea.

I really needed to warm up, it felt like I was carrying a bag of ice cubes up my jumper, see this is what I get for being really thin. While I was making a drink, I decided to have something to eat because I was starting to feel very peckish (hungry).

My lunch was the usual, spaghetti and yogurts, of course not mixed together, but as separate courses, it would taste awful mixed together, and that's coming from someone who has tried all sorts of combinations.

The one combination I remember eating was baked beans and monster munch mixed together. I always remember eating this after school, and I would sit up in my room watching children's television shows. These food combinations were something I tried when I was trying to gain weight, believe me, if you want a sure fired way to gain weight then this will work for you, but word of warning, when you gain weight it is meant to be done progressively and not rapidly because it can cause health complications.

I acknowledge that I no longer eat these food combinations because I have weak swallowing muscles and it panics me if I start choking on the food. My diet is very strict now, and in a way I am glad it is because I am very scared about choking.

Since the age of thirteen I have suffered from this problem and over the years it has gradually got worse. I have seen many specialists about this problem over the years, but each time had no success. The specialists concluded that it was my cerebral palsy causing the muscle weakness and I would have to put up with it for the rest of my life. This wasn't a shock to me, after all I had put up with it for years already and it seemed normal to me. The only let down to this is that I use large amounts of kitchen roll because I dribble a lot, this isn't of my own choosing, and honestly something I could do without.

Anyway, skipping ahead to the afternoon. I had the pleasure of talking to my two of my best friends Carl & Steve. We were talking for around three hours, it is always a delight change when we have our chats because we have such a laugh together, and the best part is that we are all really close. I speak to both Carl & Steve everyday, and they certainly bring a big ray of sunshine to my day.

After a few hours, I had to sign off to take some tablets. I wasn't in much pain at the time, but I just wanted to take the edge off the pain for a while so I could do a bit of writing. I have to take a mixture of tablets every four hours and if I don't take them the pain becomes unbearable, and it also affects how I feel or how I think if I don't keep the pain under control.

When I had my tablets, it was time to start writing again, at this point I had only written a few paragraphs in my daily blog, and in all honesty I felt like I was letting myself down by not writing much. I know many bloggers would say it doesn't matter how much you write, but I always aim to write one thousand words a day no matter how long it takes me.

So, the evening has come and I have spent most of the time watching television, I know, such a lazy evening, but oh well, we can't have an exciting life all the time.

I think the rest of my evening will be spent reading books and lying on the sofa, what a good way to end a cold and bitter day.

Before I sign off, I will leave you with this joke to warm up your laughing muscles.

My daughter was born yesterday. I named her after my mother-in-law, she's called 'passive-aggressive psycho'.

Credit: funnyshortjokes.com

### **A New G String** \- 24 February 2013

The day has already started and I still haven't been to bed, yet again I anticipate a long day ahead. When I tried to sleep my mind wouldn't settle, and it also didn't help that had pains across my stomach (yet again). I always hate getting like this, it keeps me awake for days, and because of all my medication it makes me overtired, and when I become overtired I start getting really grumpy. As you may well have guessed, this can become an evil road to go down because I take the medication to help with pain and most of the time I have to double the dosage, which in turn makes me feel really spaced out, or stoned as some people describe it as.

As I have mentioned previously, I don't take this medication for the sake of it, I take it because I needed too. These medications are strong, they are not something you can take whenever you feel like it because they have to be taken in a controlled manner, in my case I have to take them every four hours, and if I had a choice I wouldn't take them, but I have no choice in the matter.

So, it is silly o'clock in the morning and I am sat here watching Johnny English reborn, if you're not aware of this film it is a spin off to the previous Johnny English films. I would be surprised if you hadn't heard of the films because the main actor is Rowen Atkinson, he is famously known for doing his character act Mr. Bean, and he also starred in many British comedies.

When I was younger I always watched Mr. Bean, the show always made me laugh. I don't know why it kept me entertained, the comedy was simple, and you didn't even need to hear any words for it to make you laugh. The show didn't have much talking, but you didn't need to hear anything to work out what is going on because of the slapstick comedy style, you would instantly catch on that the humor was found within his actions and expressions. The one episode that I always remember, was when his mini got ran over by a tank and the emotion on his face made you feel sorry him, and somehow it made you cry.

Well, it turns out that I can sleep upright with my laptop on me. What an amazing trick, I was half expecting my laptop to be laid out flat on the floor, let alone it being on my lap! Anyway, my morning started out really cold and in pain (yet again), like I have said before, bring on the summer because I can't stand this cold anymore! What makes things worse is that I haven't cleared this cold yet and for some reason no matter what I do it still doesn't go away.

So, after all this moaning, it was time to restring my acoustic guitar, something I hate doing, but it needs to be done because the elder strings have gone all rusty and lost some sound quality.

After an hour of hard work, I finally replaced all the strings, which was good going for me because it normally takes me several hours. I did have a few problems while I was doing it, and that was purely down to my eyes going all blurry, which then meant I put two of the strings in the wrong place, but that was easily fixed.

The next thing I had to was test it, this gave me a fantastic opportunity to have a jamming session. I sat playing the guitar for over two hours and I enjoyed every moment of it. While I was playing the guitar, I decided to learn a new song, after all it had been awhile since I had learned a new song. The song I chose to learn was called Land down under, which was originally written and sung by a group called Men at work. The song was really easy to learn, it was a basic chord pattern (C, G, Am, F, G). I have wanted to learn this song for sometime, and gladly I did today, which was a fantastic way to end the afternoon.

As the evening was fast approaching, I decided to have a few races in Gran Truismo. I hadn't played in a couple of days, so it gave me a good excuse to rest and burn virtual rubber on the track. I had a bit of luck during my game play, I ended up completing the professional A-spec race series, and I also got the B national license. I was really pleased because I can now progress further in the game, hopefully this progression will last for a few more days.

After an hour of playing games, it was time to unwind and relax into the evening. I hadn't got anything specific planned, I could read a book or just watch a bit of television,  either way I didn't want to do anything stressful.

I started out the evening by watching some episodes of Frasier on Netflix. When I was halfway through an episode, I got a text message from Steve, he was inviting me to join a video chat with him and Carl, well I couldn't say no because they are my best friends and I would never pass up an opportunity to chat to them.

We had another couple of hours of laughs, and just a great time all round.

Anyway, the rest of my evening was spent relaxing. I didn't have anything else to do, so I just finished up parts of my books again.

So, with that said it is time to sign off, but before I do, I will leave you with these words of wisdom.

A life spent making mistakes is not only more honorable, but more useful than a life spent doing nothing.

Credit: George Bernard Shaw - brainyquote.com

### **Winter Season 2013 Closure** \- 25 February 2013

So, today is the last day I blog about myself during the 2013 winter season. I can't believe the 2013 winter season is coming to an end, if the weather was anything to go by you would think that we had months left of winter.

The good thing is that warmer weather is just around the corner and I can finally go outside without the fear of body parts falling off because it is freezing.

When I woke up this morning it felt like someone had kicked me in my hip, each time I tried to move it felt like I was trying to shift a 1KG weight! The only reason why I got out of bed this morning was because the house phone started ringing and no one else was awake to pick it up for me. So, as you could imagine, it was hard to get up and when I tried to walk it completely failed because I had to drag my left leg across the floor.

Anyway, enough about my drunken leg. After a few hours went by, I had to go and grab some shopping from Tesco. The walk to the shop wasn't so bad, the weather was calm and it was really mild, I still had to wear my coat, but it wasn't freezing like previous days.

As we approached Tesco, I noticed a sign saying buy two Easter eggs and get two free. I thought to myself I must get them now while the offer is on because the chances are the offer won't be on long and they would be snapped up quick.  So, while we were in Tesco we picked up the Easter eggs for my family. There goes my idea of just picking up what I needed, but oh well it saves me a job in March, and the best part was I got them at bargain price.

After an hour of walking around Tesco, it was time to come home. I was glad to be heading back home, I was starving, all I had to eat this morning was a few yogurts, and it didn't help that I didn't have any dinner last night. The reason for missing dinner last night, was purely because I knocked out  and fell asleep.

I don't make a habit of missing meals, it ends up making my stomach poorly and I end up feeling really sick, I won't bore you with all the usual vulgar information, but you can easily guess what it is.

When I got home it was time for me to have something to eat and a well-deserved drink. I only had something light because my stomach was poorly and I didn't want to run the risk throwing it back up again.

After I had something to eat, it was time to start writing the closing chapter of my new blog book. I have worked very hard on this book and I couldn't let myself down at the final hurdle.

The writing has definitely taken it out on me this month, I have written every day, and on average I have written seven hundred words a day. This figure alone is mind blowing, who knew that I could write that much per day! To be honest with you, I have surprised myself, and I don't think I would have got this far without the ongoing support from my close friends & family. The support itself has pushed me to keep focused and it has also helped me believe in myself.

So, it is time to say goodbye and to conclude this season. I won't bore with the rest of my day, it was the same as yesterday, resting and reading, so there wasn't any point repeating myself.

I hope you have enjoyed this winter season, it has certainly been a mix of emotions and adventures. I hope that the spring season will bring more fun and adventures, and I also hope the weather warms up because I have a lot planned.

The spring season blogs will start on March 1st and until then I will be taking a small break, this is simply to help me recharge my energy and come back with a refreshed mind. Before I go, I will leave you with this quote.

Too often we underestimate the power of a touch, a smile, a kind word, a listening ear, an honest compliment, or the smallest act of caring, all of which have the potential to turn a life around.

Credit: Leo Buscaglia - brainyquote.com

Until March,

Marc. 

### **About Marc, and Social Links**

Marc published his first book in October 2011, he just wanted to give it a try just to see if anyone would read it. After 3500 downloads through a kindle promotion, inspired him to write more books.

The latest book he wrote was called "Habit, Kicks and Laughter." Initially this book wasn't going to be released, but after showing a few people, it was clear by their great feedback that they loved it.

Marc, who suffers from cerebral palsy always tries to make the best of his condition. Every day is an uphill struggle, but he smiles through the pain to try to help others. Even though Marc struggles with his learning disability he still tries to write a lot and even if he makes mistakes he has great support on hand from his friends and family who proof-read many of Marc's publications.

**Social Links:**

Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/MarcCornBooks

Instagram: http://Instagram.com/VlogWithSid

Twitter: http://twitter.com/MarcSnappy

