 
Blu Dream

By

Suilan Lee

Blu Dream

Published by Suilan Lee at Smashwords

Copyright © 2013 Suilan Lee

Cover art by Liang Woo

Smashwords Edition, License Notes

Thank you for downloading this free e-book. Although this is a free book, it remains the copyrighted property of the author and may not be reproduced, scanned, or distributed for any commercial or non-commercial use without permission from the author. Quotes used in reviews are the exception. No alteration of content is allowed. If you enjoyed this book, then encourage your friends to download their own free copy. Your support and respect for the property of this author is appreciated.

This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, or places, events or locales is purely coincidental. The characters are productions of the author's imagination and used fictitiously.

Warning

This eBook contains scenes with adult language, and explicit sex scenes between adult males. It is intended for mature audiences only. If you are offended by such content, please remove this eBook from your files.
Chapter 1

Colston, Ohio was a small city two hours away from Columbus that had a peculiar habit of attracting big things. I worked for the Red entertainment and Media Company. This past week we'd spent every waking hour preparing the Colston arena for a live concert. Weird luck and the mayor's charm had managed to bring a genuine successful rock band to the sleepy town of Colston. Blu Dream, my favorite rock band, was coming to town. I still couldn't believe it.

"Liron, they'll be here in thirty minutes." Carol Bradley was the woman who'd handed me this job a week ago. She'd given me a critical look and hired me on the spot. I don't know what she saw, but my bank account was grateful. Carol was managing the local crew.

"Hurry," she said when I didn't move from the bench in the sun.

Carol hurried off toward the production office and I jumped off the bench. I'd been working since six o'clock in the morning. It was now five and if the band showed up, I had no hope of seeing the sun again.

I say 'if' because yesterday, Carol had spent the day on a bender all day saying the band was arriving. Blu Dream delayed in New York and we'd all gone home a bit let down by her tyranny. Stretching my hands above my head, I sighed and smelled my t-shirt. Ripe, sweaty, I wrinkled my nose at the stench. I needed to duck into the bathroom and wash up before I met the band.

Walking up to the front entrance, I smiled when I caught sight of the security team. Big burly guys dressed in black t-shirts and pants, their clothing did nothing to hide their sculpted bodies. I had a little orgasm every time I walked by them. I could imagine them frisking me; just the thought had me hard. The other day, Carol had sent me to the supermarket down the street. When I got back, my identification band had been in my pocket.

Lucas, the sexy Spanish one, had slipped his fingers into my tight jeans pockets and pulled it out.

"Liron," Lucas said my name now with a wide smile when I reached them. "Is your wristband in the pocket again?"

"Do you want it to be?" I asked matching his smile. Five minutes in the bathroom and that's all I'd need to get to know this stud.

Lucas chuckled and reached for my left hand. Blu Dream's management had come up with black wristbands with a barcode. One scan and my details showed up on Lucas's pad.

"Maybe we can frisk you later, in the back." Lucas promised his thumb caressing my inner wrist. A tingling thrill swept through me and I smiled. "My shift is almost over," he said.

"Frisk all you want, Lucas."

"Liron," Carol called again and I sighed.

"She's had it in for you all day," Lucas noted. "You shouldn't have told her off yesterday about making you stay longer."

"I can deal," I replied.

Winking at him, I ran into the bunker, past the production office where Carol was going through boxes of bulbs. The docking zone was busy with the stage crew carrying equipment up top to the stage. I navigated through their creative mess to the secluded quiet area where the dressing rooms were.

Five dressing rooms, two for the band's crew, three for Blu Dream. The wardrobe crew had shown up an hour ago and taken over the two dressing rooms belonging to the crew. Racks of clothing, and steel chests filled with supplies took up different corners of the rooms. My job description –dressing room assistant- meant I did what they wanted me to do from now on. Thankfully, the young woman in charge, Krista Jacobs, was friendly and she'd yet to demand the ridiculous.

But then again, this was only day one. We had four days with each other.

"Liron," Krista said when I walked into the messy bigger crew dressing room. "You and I need to spend some time in Milo's dressing room before he shows."

I wondered if I'd ever get such a proposition from Milo himself. I'd probably cream my pants. Milo Kai, lead singer of Blu Dream, was a dark haired six-foot tall gorgeous man. I'd had wet dreams starring Milo ever since I'd heard his first album at sixteen.

Krista pointed out two duffel bags on the floor. I picked both of them and followed her down the hall. We passed two doors and entered the largest dressing room of all. It had a comfortable relaxed feel. I was particularly proud of the sitting area. I'd helped carry in the two new couches, upholstered chairs and armchairs earlier. Blood red La-Z-Boy couches with spell binding cushions; I could imagine lounging on the three sitter watching movies all night.

Krista looked around the room with a critical eye. I'd reread the band's dressing room rider so many times it was engraved in my mind. Milo's dressing room was particular. He wanted a very quiet comfortable space, with no flowers in the room. Six post cards, five rolls of paper towels and bottles of water on a desk. Dressing space, one full-length mirror, and a long table where the rest of the band could join him for meetings or dinner. He also had a private bathroom. I'd stocked brand new towels, soaps and a stack of tissue paper, the most expensive on the supermarket shelves.

Krista nodded in approval when she left the private bathroom. "Well stocked, but be ready in case he needs to add something. Milo gets ridiculous about his bathrooms."

_I_ was ridiculous about my bathroom too. Krista's comment just humanized Milo for me.

She opened the duffel bags I'd kept on the couches. "Put these magazines on the desk, some on the coffee table. These scribbling notepads go on the desk as well as these pens."

I stared at the container full of pens and almost laughed. There were so many different types.

"Does he use them all?" I asked taking the clear container to the desk.

"Milo collects them. Each pen represents a city in the _Kaleidoscope_ tour."

"Oh wow," I stared at the container. "Should I get him one for Colston city?"

"It has to be unique." Krista pulled out a calendar, which she came to hang over the desk. "I've watched many entertainment execs try to impress Milo with crazy looking pens. He always leaves them behind and somehow ends up with a pen for his collection."

_Interesting_ , Milo had a hobby. I suddenly wanted to be the one that gave him the Colston city pen. I helped Krista add personality to the room. It somehow ended up looking like a hangout joint, with a videogame center in the corner, the two-sitter couch set up before the console. A flat screen television on one wall tuned to the fuse. Krista was a well of information. She talked about the tour so far, how they still had thirty more venues. Milo and his band mates were getting used to the rigorous schedule.

"You guys are lucky you're not getting them on the first leg. Things are always extra confused when we first start a tour."

I liked Krista. She reminded me of my older sister, Tara. Her attention to detail, her empathy, she obviously loved working with Blu Dream.

"Okay, now we head on to Rob's dressing room and then Kardis's. Are you going to be with me for the four days?"

"Yeah," I said, hauling more duffel bags to Rob's dressing room.

"Then your days will change to nights." Krista flashed me a big smile.

Carol had warned me on my first day at work. I'd balked at the idea but the amount of money I was getting for the ludicrous hours more than made up for the inconvenience. I'd be able to pay the final installment on my college bill.

"I'm all yours, Krista, although, at some point, I'll need to escape to clean up."

She laughed and looked at my ravaged clothes. "And here I thought you always look like that."

*~*~*

Milo Kai was definitely the most handsome man I'd ever seen. I'd seen good-looking guys in my time. Being only twenty-two, that didn't really amount to much, but still, I'd moved around. None of those men I'd thought handsome came close to the man I was looking at now.

The band posters and album covers lied. They probably did that on purpose to stop the already crazed fans from mauling Milo on sight. Just having him stand a few feet away was enough to explain why an arena capable of housing two hundred thousand people had sold out.

"Liron," Krista jabbed a long finger into my ribs and I forced my attention away from Milo. "You're drooling."

I blushed, bright red, like a ripe tomato, my cheeks hot with embarrassment. I hadn't blushed like this since third grade when Jane Finley had pulled my shorts down in gym class. All I could think about was how it would be like to be with Milo. Gosh, even the idea of kissing him had me hard. I wanted to kiss him and find out how soft his lips were.

Krista chuckled and handed me a black cap. I pulled it low over my face. Milo stood a few feet away chatting with Carol and the Blu Dream manager. Completely oblivious to my budding lust, I took the opportunity to study him unnoticed.

He would have made a perfect quarterback. His body trim and athletic, broad shoulders, slim hips and an ass that had me drooling. In fitted blue jeans, he was perfection. I wanted to touch and caress until I overdosed on the pleasure. He wore a black t-shirt that clung to his broad shoulders and a black cap on his head. I couldn't see what color his hair was. The Blu Dream posters stuck on the walls around us showed him with black hair but there were rumors that he'd changed the color for the tour. I decided he'd look good in any color of hair.

Milo finished with Carol and Krista pushed off the wall. Carol and Blu Dream's manager went off to deal with other matters and Milo turned to us.

"Milo," Krista said her tone warm and kind, as she would greet a close friend.

Milo smiled at her, the curve of his lips completely devastating me. I wasn't sure I could talk if he turned to me. Why would he even be talking to me? I wasn't part of his crew and-

"Liron," Krista said, pulling me back from the vortex of my imagination.

I glanced up to find striking blue eyes staring at me. Milo's arm was around Krista's shoulders. She touched my elbow gently, her gaze knowing. I fought my blush this time, though I wasn't sure what good it did me.

"Let's go. Milo has a sound check in ten minutes."

I followed them down the hall listening to Krista tell Milo about the dressing rooms.

"Kardis has a hangover," Milo said when she was done. He glanced at me speculatively. "Have the kid get him a cure."

_Kid_ , I scowled at the description. I'd outgrown that tag at seventeen. I was no 'kid'.

"I'll handle it," Krista intervened sending me a frown. She opened Milo's dressing room. "What do you think?"

Milo walked straight to the couch and dropped on it. "Give me five minutes quiet, Krista. Don't let anyone in here."

Krista nodded, took my arm and led me out. She closed the door and smiled. "He likes it."

"How do you know, he barely looked around," I complained.

"Not saying a word is a good thing, Liron. Now tell me you know a fast hangover cure. Kardis must have spent the night partying." She groaned dramatically. "I really hate his hangover drama."

*~*~*

Hangover drama was an understatement. Kardis was a big baby. Complaining about everything from the type of towels, we'd gotten especially for the band to the couches. I was proud of the couches so his complaints just irritated me. It didn't make sense that he complained, and then promptly stretched his six foot one body on the red couch. If he hated it so much, he should be asking we throw the darned couch out.

"Why the hell did you drink so much last night?" Krista complained, tight white lines appearing at the corner of her mouth. Even she was getting tired of Kardis's griping. I'd thought she had the patience of Job when he insisted he wanted his shirts dry-cleaned in thirty minutes. "You need to rest; all this complaining is not helping."

"I don't need mothering, Krista," Kardis said closing his eyes.

I left the room quickly when I got the chance, almost running into Rob Kingsley, Blu Dream's third member.

"Whoa, where are you running off to kid?"

The British accent was sexy, the nickname not so much. I looked up into green eyes and sighed. Rob was the pretty boy with perfect blond hair that fell just right and a wonderful smile. In another lifetime, he'd have made a perfect presidential candidate.

"I'm no kid," I said stepping back.

Rob chuckled and raised his hands. "Did Kardis scare you out of his room?"

"No," I lied. Looking up and down the deserted hallway, I decided I needed a break. "I'm going to get him a cure."

Rob's eyebrows shot up. "If it works, I'm taking you with us for the rest of this tour. We've tried everything from alka seltzer, coffee, honey, to bloody marys. Kardis is still grumpy as ever and Milo's probably hiding out right now to get away."

So that's why the five minutes of peace, I thought glancing at Milo's closed door. Biting my lip in thought, I smiled at Rob.

"I'll bring back a cure," I promised and ran down the corridor to the exit.

I ducked out of the bunkers and headed to the main arena parking lot. It was still light even though it was just after six o'clock. I took in deep breaths of fresh air happily. If it weren't for this job, I'd be at the beach on Lakeside swimming with my college friends. Getting my phone out of my pocket, I dialed Tara, my big sis. She was a registered nurse who worked at Colston Lake Memorial hospital. She would know what to do with the hangover dude from hell.

"Liron, I'm glad you finally called. You're ignoring my messages."

I hadn't had time to think about my phone in hours.

"I'm sorry; things are pretty busy around here."

"I wanted to know if you'll make it to dinner," Tara said clearing her throat making me pause in the parking lot. "Dad wants to see you. I thought we should talk about that."

I froze. The word Dad and specter tended to match in my head. The man was a judgmental prick who had forced me to pay my own way through college. You'd think it was because I'd told him I was gay. Nope, the fact that I didn't want to be a doctor had pissed my father off. That was summer four years ago. I hadn't set foot in his house since then. Yeah, I might have over reacted after our fight, but Dad had not tried to fix the rift either. Starting now was...unexpected.

"Tara," I started.

"I know," she said with a sigh. "You and Dad have a difficult relationship. How long are you going to ignore each other?"

"I don't want to talk about this right now." Family issues would have to wait for when I could actually think straight. "I'm sorry I can't make it to dinner, Tara. I'm still at the arena."

"Why'd you call?"

"I need a sure hangover cure."

I stopped at the entrance to the parking lot in surprise. Expensive cars surrounded my old green Toyota Supra. Clearly, I needed a new ride, but I was a struggling graphic design student. Tuition, projects and school supplies sucked away most of my money. Add on living expenses and buying a new car felt like a dream for the distant future.

Opening the driver's side door, I took pride in the fact that I probably maintained my engine better. My dad, the absolute bastard, had taught me the value of maintenance on a car engine. Too bad, we couldn't have a civilized conversation anymore.

"Did you get drunk again?' Tara asked with a huff. "It's only six thirty in the evening, Liron-

"It's not for me, jeez," I cut her off. The woman thought my life was a series of parties. My friends were hard partiers, but I knew when to control myself. Like now, with such a great paycheck about to come my way, I couldn't have any screw ups.

Tara laughed, a happy contagious sound that had me smiling.

"Band members?" she asked. "Which one, is it Milo? He seems the type. I can't believe you couldn't get me a backstage pass."

I sighed dramatically. The confidentiality contracts the crew had signed, not to mention the no-tolerance for unauthorized personnel demands were keeping us all in check. Management had put the fear of God in us in case we broke the rules. Any ideas of getting Tara or even my friends' backstage had disappeared the moment I met Carol.

To make up for it, I had gotten Tara prime front row seats for the final concert.

"Tara," I started to remind her. "You know I couldn't get you in. Security is so strict."

"Okay, spoil sport. You're turning into a real tight ass. Keeping the juicy gossip," Tara complained.

I started the car and drove out of the parking lot hoping no policemen were in sight. I didn't want to be caught talking on my cell phone.

"Whoever this is needs to hydrate. Water, juice, no fizzy drinks," Tara said. "Get fruits too, the juicy sweet kind like mangoes, apples, kiwi, and oranges."

"I thought you were going to give me a miracle pill or something simple that will work like magic." I complained driving to a Giant Eagle down the street.

"You wish," Tara continued. "Are you really not going to tell me who it is?"

"If they need to eat, why not burgers or pizza," I said diverting her question

"Fresh nutritious food, kiddo," Tara ordered. "Call me later and tell me this person's name."

"Ah huh," I hung up on her with a laugh. Tara was a gossip queen. She'd probably end up on national television disclosing Kardis's hangover habits if I talked.

*~*~*

"Drink," I said with my most stern tone handing Kardis another glass of passion/mango juice and watched him take it down.

For the last ten minutes, I'd forced him to drink three bottles of the expensive water we'd gotten for the band. He'd eaten a fruit salad from the caterer we'd gotten for the band, and now the juice I'd gotten at the supermarket.

Kardis had grumbled through it all, but he seemed better.

"Feel like you can stand on stage?" Krista asked. She sat in an armchair across Kardis watching me move from the table laden with food to the coffee table.

"Yeah," Kardis said looking at me. "You're one persistent kid, what's your name?"

I winced at the nickname and said grudgingly, "Liron."

"Just Liron," Kardis said with a raised brow.

"Liron Shaw," I answered my arms crossed against my chest. I shifted slightly my feet were killing me.

"Take a seat, you look like you're about to fall over." Kardis nodded to the armchair beside Krista. I turned to Krista to make sure I wasn't breaking a ' _don't sit with the band members_ ' code.

She nodded and I sank into the chair gratefully.

"I have a cousin named Liron," Kardis said studying me.

I returned the favor meeting Kardis's brown eyes. He had dirty blond hair that fell shaggily around his face. There was nothing remarkable about his features but his personality more than made up for the average looks. Demanding and absolute, he had an unwavering confidence that made you pay attention to him.

Kardis was also a stunning bass player. He was married with two kids, the only one in the band. Rob had a longtime girlfriend. A Brazilian model that was camera-shy when it came to social outings. As for Milo, I wished for the millionth time that he were gay. There were rumors but no actual proof. He'd been single for a while now and I couldn't remember whom he'd last dated.

"What are you day dreaming about?" Kardis asked bringing me back to the present. "Your eyes glazed over. Am I boring you? Do you think hanging out with me is a chore?"

"No!" I gasped shaking my head. If he were to complain to Carol, she'd kick me out in a second. I really did need this job. "I'm sorry it's been a really long day."

"Relax kid; I'm just pulling your leg."

"Will you stop calling me kid!" I scowled at him. "I'm twenty-two for god's sake."

Kardis stared at me for a full minute. I stared at him in shock. Telling off members of the main act was not exactly a good thing right before they got on stage. Relief flooded me when Kardis started laughing.

"I like you, Liron. Krista, you should poach this one. He's the first dressing room assistant that hasn't sucked this tour. He has a mind of his own."

I glowed. The simple comment made me so happy. I knew I was lost when I wondered if Kardis would repeat his comment around Milo.

The door opened and my heart stopped.

Milo walked in having changed into a navy blue button down shirt and black slacks. I could finally see his hair. Mink black, the rumor mills were wrong. Milo's hair was short on the sides long on top. He hadn't shaved and a dark five o'clock shadow graced his chiseled jaw. I wondered what it would feel like to run my fingers over his stubble. Press my lips against that jaw and take in Milo's delicious scent.

I jerked my gaze away before I made a fool of myself, not that I hadn't already. My red face wasn't something I could hide. Milo was crawling deep inside me with every minute.

"Kardis, how's it going?" Milo asked and I gave up fighting the attraction.

His voice was so sexy, fantasies of listening to him purr seductively in my ear, with me writhing under him in bed caught in ecstasy, took shape in my head. My cock was ready to burst in my pants.

"Better," Kardis answered quietly.

I glanced up to find Kardis watching me. I prayed to all the gods who would care out there that my face wasn't red. This blushing business was seriously making my life hard. Thank God, I hadn't removed my cap. Pulling it lower over my face, I stood and started clearing the coffee table.

"Sound check was good, we missed you," Milo continued. To my surprise and undying pleasure, he came up to the coffee table and took a piece of honeydew from the plastic container I was holding. His scent, clean and minty enveloped me and I breathed in deeply.

I tried not to imagine him wrapping his tongue around the juicy morsel. Turning away from Kardis and Milo, I decided to find Lucas. I was just horny and needed a distraction. What was wrong with me, lusting after Milo Kai as if he was my next-door neighbor? Nothing could happen between us, although a guy could dream.

*~*~*

Locked in a stall in the arena's public bathrooms, my mouth wrapped around Lucas's condom-sheathed cock, I worked to make him cum fast. Thanking him for the two times, he'd made me cum five minutes ago. He gave a harsh cry and came hard with me stroking his cock until he finished. I stood up, wiping my mouth with my palm and he pulled me into a short hug, pressing a kiss on my jaw, his mouth traveling to my neck where he sucked on my skin. I closed my eyes hating how flat this felt. No passion, no emotion, it was just a mutual moment of relief.

Lucas let go of me and I stepped back. He pulled off his condom and dumped it in the trashcan in the corner.

"When do you get off work?" he asked. We'd been flirting for a week, now that I had him, I didn't want him.

"Carol wants me to stay until the show ends tonight," I said refusing to meet his gaze. I zipped up my jeans.

Lucas moaned in disappointment. "When do I get to have you again?"

Buttoning my jeans, I smiled when Lucas pulled me closer and cupped my ass possessively.

"I'll let you know," I said hedging.

In minutes, we both righted our clothes. I allowed him to pull me into a quick kiss before we left the stall. I walked to the sinks and splashed cold water on my face. My body tingled deliciously, but my head was in confusion.

"Liron, don't keep me waiting too long," Lucas said as he left the bathroom.

I'd have to find a way to dump him. The sex was nothing special, no flaming heat boiling through my veins threatening to destroy me. Milo's voice alone had driven me mad with need. I closed my eyes just thinking about what it would be like with Milo. One kiss would probably set me off.

I left the public bathrooms unsettled. Strange, since Lucas had given me exactly what I wanted. A free no-string attached orgasm. Why wasn't I wearing a wide smile?

I returned backstage, keenly aware that the field was starting to fill with people. The security team had tripled. I went through four checks just to get backstage.

Krista was talking to the caterer when I found her. We had an hour left. The show was starting at eight-thirty sharp and Krista wanted the band's crew fed and bottles of water on the stage. I helped haul the cartons of water up to the stage.

Sound engineers, cameramen and the like were hard at work preparing for the show. The lighting was cool; bright lights illuminating the stage, I paused for a moment just to take in the vast arena. In minutes, Milo, Kardis and Rob would be standing here playing to a roaring audience. I'd watch it all free in the wings.

"What do you think?"

I turned quickly, surprised to see Milo standing a few feet away. My heart went into overdrive.

"Do you think we'll impress Colston?"

"You've impressed us just by showing up," I answered truthfully.

Milo chuckled and I bit my lip, amazed by that small rumble.

"Then it shouldn't be too hard to make a lasting impression," Milo said.

"Why did you choose Colston?"

Milo looked at me, his blue eyes bright with amusement. I was glad it was summer time; the evening light turned his eyes into bright blue orbs.

"Coz everybody else would have gone to Columbus," Milo replied with a grin. "I like your cap."

He reached out and removed it from my head. My hair wasn't exactly stylish right now. Sweaty, icky, dirty definitely not a sight for the great Milo Kai.

"Blond and cute," Milo murmured, he took a step closer.

I froze his face so close I could smell the scent of lemon and honey on his breath. "They're green like the sea, pretty."

I blinked. My eyes, he was talking about my eyes. I blushed. Thank goodness for the fading light. He stared at me for a moment before he wore my cap with a grin.

"Kardis was right. Don't disappear, Liron. We can talk later when the show ends."

"What?"

"My dressing room, after the show ends, it's a date." Milo walked away and left me gaping like an idiot.

*~*~*

An hour later, I stood at the soundboard letting Milo's voice wash over me. Soulful, thrilling, he looked like a dream on stage. Seated on a stool, the mic pulled close as he strummed an acoustic guitar, singing Kaleidoscope, I figured I'd died and gone to heaven. The crowd sang the chorus with him, clapping with the music. I moved my body to the beat, my soul flying with joy.

A soft touch on my shoulder startled me and I turned to find Carol smiling at me.

"I hear glowing reports from Krista. She's impressed with you. Good work, Liron."

"Thanks." I glanced at the stage when the song ended and Milo stood from his stool to start another song.

"I'm going to need you to come in around four in the afternoon tomorrow."

"Are you letting me go home?" Looking at my watch, I gaped when I realized it was almost eleven. "Oh, wow, I didn't realize it was that late."

"The band will head over to their hotel as soon as they're done. I have enough crew to handle anything they need. You should go home and get some rest."

What was I thinking?

Milo wouldn't have time for me after the concert. There were record label guests here to see them. I should know I'd helped Krista arrange the green room. Afterwards, Milo and the band would head out to whatever party their manager wanted them to attend. Milo had no time for me.

He must have been kidding about talking to me. Here I was taking it literally; I shook my head at my idiotic thoughts. Giving Milo one last glance, I let go of my crazy dreams and decided to head home.

*~~*~~*

Chapter 2

Tara and I rented a three-bedroom apartment on the fifth floor at Shoregate Towers on Lakeshore Blvd. She handled three-quarters of the rent when I had to pay school. Other times, we split half. After this job, I was going to be able to help her more with the bills.

The apartment was quiet when I walked in, with only a light in the kitchen. I found a lonely plate waiting on the kitchen counter with a note.

_'Sorry you missed dinner. Went to work a double shift, I'll see you tomorrow. Tara.'_

Sticking the note on the counter, I opened the plate cover, smiled when I found roast beef, mashed potatoes with gravy, and mixed veggies. My stomach rumbled in appreciation. I put the plate in the microwave and threw my keys on the small kitchen table. Stretching my arms above my head, I yawned. Gods, I was so tired.

After dinner, I took a shower, changed into pajama bottoms and sat at my desk in my room to check my e-mail. Tara had left actual mail on my desk, and I found a receipt she'd left with a smiley face under the pile.

It took me a moment to realize it was from a bank and had the name of my University on it. My bill was paid and my paperwork was ready for collection.

"What the-

Reaching for my phone, I called Tara.

"I figured you'd call when you found it," she said in greeting.

"Did you do this?" I asked staring at the amount on the bottom. "Tara, I told you I can handle it-

"It wasn't me," she said quickly. "Before you get upset, I hope you know this is for your own good. It means you'll be able to apply for jobs using your papers and-

"Was it Dad?" I cut her off feeling rage start boiling inside me. How dare he decide to meddle after four years?

She kept quiet on the other end.

"He had no right, Tara." Bunching the receipt in my fist, I stood and paced the length of my bed taking in deep calming breathes. "He had no right, how did he find out?"

"You're his son," Tara said quietly. "He went to your school looking for you. One of your professors helped him with the rest. You know how he is; he's grown up with everyone in this town."

"I don't want his money."

"Please stop being such a stubborn mule. It's been four years since you talked to each other. You're not a doctor, but you're still his son. Your DNA didn't change at all."

"Well, I wish it would." I threw the receipt on my desk and decided the moment Red Entertainment paid me; I was going to deposit the money into my father's account. Sitting at the foot of my bed, I shook my head. "Tara-

"I have to go, Liron. Please, sleep, get some rest and I hope you'll be thinking more clearly tomorrow morning. Okay?"

I sighed. "Fine, I'll see you tomorrow."

"Goodnight, kiddo," she said and hung up.

I fell back on my bed exhausted.

*~*~*

A loud knock at the door woke me up. Lifting my head, barely able to open my eyes, I looked at the clock blinking at my bedside table. It was only seven o'clock in the morning. Too early to wake up, hugging my pillow, I buried my head under the covers and ignored my visitor.

The knocking persisted and then my phone started ringing too. Groaning in frustration, I stumbled out of bed, rubbing my eyes to clear my vision. Who was waking me up this early? It couldn't be any of my friends, none of them ever surfaced before twelve.

I wrenched the door open with a wide yawn. "What do you want? It's too early in the morning for all the noise."

"Morning Liron," Milo Kai said.

Blinking sleep away, I stared at the tall figure with one hand braced on my doorjamb. He was wearing the cap he'd taken from me. Dark glasses covered half his face, and the stubble on his jaw was thicker. He looked luscious in black jeans and a light green V-neck shirt.

"Can I come in?" Milo asked although he didn't wait for the invite. He walked into the living room as though he lived here. "Nice place, do you have breakfast ready?"

I glanced down the hallway confused expecting to see Krista. There was no one, so I stepped back and closed the door.

Milo was in _my_ kitchen rummaging in the fridge.

"What are you doing in my apartment?" I asked confused.

"You ran away last night. I remember specifically asking you to meet me in my dressing room after the concert."

Running a hand through my hair, I stifled a yawn. "You didn't really mean that. You guys were busy after the show and I was tired-

"You ran away." Milo straightened, closed the fridge and placed the makings of a sandwich on the counter and four eggs. "Your fridge is stocked. Are you living with your boyfriend?"

"No," I answered when he looked at me with a frown. "My sister, how did you know where I live?"

"Employee records," Milo said with a small smile. "Where's your frying pan?"

"What are you doing?"

"Making breakfast," Milo grinned at me. "I just gave up a buffet to come looking for you."

"Why?" I asked confused. "Did I miss something? Krista could have called-

"Liron, relax." Milo broke two eggs into a glass bowl I'd never seen, not that I cooked very much, Tara did most of that. That he'd found a bowl was somewhat amazing. "How do you like your eggs?"

"Fried," I replied.

"Great, me too," Milo said with a wide smile. He opened a few more drawers coming up with a gas cooker lighter, plates and a knife. "Are you always this confused in the morning?"

Only when a freaking rock star was standing in my kitchen, I rubbed my arms and frowned when I realized I didn't have a shirt on. My hair was probably sticking up. Rubbing my jaw, I frowned at the thought of drool tracks on my face.

"Excuse me for a second," I said quickly running to the bathroom.

I splashed water on my face, brushed my teeth quickly. There was nothing to do with my hair; it had always been an unruly mess. Digging my fingers through the straight strands, I gave up when it stopped sticking up. Back in my room, I grabbed a clean t-shirt from the closet, and wiped my face.

I found Milo setting two plates on the kitchen table with coffee cups and orange juice in tall glasses.

"You look awake." Milo smiled at me when he glanced up. "Although, I miss the bed hair, seat, I'll bring the coffee."

Milo had made fried eggs, sausages and toast. He'd cut up a fruit salad and placed the bowls beside the plates. Tara would be ecstatic at the sight of such a breakfast meal. I reached for my orange juice when Milo returned with the coffee pot.

"You cook," I said when Milo sat down beside me and dug into his food. I watched him helplessly, sipping my orange juice.

"I do, are you surprised?"

"Shocked that you're doing it in my apartment," I replied putting my glass down. "Won't everyone look for you at the hotel?"

Milo shrugged, "Not for a while. You're not eating, Liron. Don't you like eggs?"

"I- Uhm-I like them just fine," I said picking up my fork.

He'd taken off his dark glasses and the cap. Cool blue eyes met mine. He had long, very dark lashes. My gaze drifted along the elegant curve of his nose to his lips. He took a bite of his eggs and I bit my inner lip, wanting to press my lips against his. He smiled and I dropped my gaze down to my plate.

"When you're not working backstage, what do you do Liron?" Milo asked.

I sat back in my seat. "I finished college in May. Just working odd jobs now until I find one that works with my degree."

"What did you do in school?"

"Graphic design," I said with a laugh, "nothing glamorous."

"Sounds like a lot of fun," Milo said sipping his coffee. "Why did you run away last night?"

"I didn't run away. I just didn't think you were serious."

Milo narrowed his eyes and studied me thoughtfully. "You don't like me. Kardis must have read you wrong. I should probably leave before this gets weird."

I panicked when he started to push his chair back. I didn't want him to leave. It didn't make sense that he'd found my house, but now that he was here. I reached out and held on to his arm.

"Stay," I begged with a soft whisper. "Please, Milo."

He relaxed in his chair. "I was hoping you'd say that. "I was going to have to find someplace else to hang out for the next couple hours."

"Is that why you came here, to hangout?" I asked.

"You're blushing again," Milo said reaching out to touch my jaw. My cheeks flamed and he chuckled.

I jerked away from his hand and reached for my coffee. "Excuse me; I'm trying to get over having Milo Kai in my apartment."

Milo looked around the kitchen and smiled. "I used to live in a smaller apartment than this."

I'd read that in one of the magazines articles written about Blu Dream. I'd have to remember to hide the stash of Blu Dream memorabilia in my room. Just in case, we ended up there.

"My mum was a nurse; she worked double shifts to pay for my high school. She had no faith in the public school system, so she sent me to this private academy with all the rich kids." Milo shook his head. "I hated every minute of it, but I couldn't tell her. She worked so hard."

"Is that why you started Blu Dream?"

"Nope, Kardis and I did that for money."

I laughed. "And the rock star life," I added for him.

"That too," Milo agreed with a chuckle. "You said you live with your sister? Where is she?"

"At work, she's a nurse too. Loves her job so much, she takes double shifts when there's a patient she's attached to."

Tara's empathy could sometimes be her undoing. She cared so much for her patients, when things went wrong, she hurt more.

"Is she older than you or is it the other way round."

"She's older, by six years." Milo raised his brow in question and I smiled and explained. "I was the unexpected baby. Tara lets me live here with her, and I help her with the bills."

"She's very sweet." Milo finished his coffee and stood. I watched him head into the small dining area, pausing to go through the books on the glass dining table. "Internal medicine books, gossip rags," he lifted a romance novel with two guys on the cover. "Is this one yours?"

"Tara's," I said, I barely had time for laundry, reading novels was a luxury I didn't have.

He flipped through the book for a moment before he placed it on the textbooks. "What do you do for fun?"

Milo disappeared in the living room and I stood taking my coffee mug to follow him. I found him browsing through the stack of movies by the television.

"Action, drama, action, epic, more action," he glanced at me and held up the Hobbit, "epic?"

"Not me," I shook my head.

He chuckled. "You wouldn't tell me even if it was."

"Hey, you're the one judging my movie choices. By the way, Tara is the one who got the Hobbit."

Milo returned the movies and moved the couch where I'd left my ipod the day before. He sat down and scrolled through my music.

"You like snooping around." I joined him on the couch, folding my legs under me as I pushed into one corner. "Is this what you do to everyone you meet?"

"Only you," Milo replied. "Blu Dream's music is on here."

"You have good songs."

Milo glanced at me.

"Just good?" he asked.

I shrugged and sipped my coffee. "What do you listen to?"

"Everything," he answered. "It depends what's happening. When I want to create for the band, I listen to nothing but our music. Other times, you can find me at a jazz festival, rap concert, or even a classical music session."

I wanted to ask him so many questions, how he could write such soulful music. Had he always known he'd be a musician? All of these questions, he'd answered one way or another in the magazines and books I'd read. Hearing the answers from him however, would be much better.

Then I thought, the people he met probably asked him these questions all the time. I wanted to leave a lasting impression on him. Biting my lip hard, I contented myself with just watching him scroll through my music.

"What are you thinking about right now?" he asked abruptly.

"Not much; just amazed to have you sitting on my couch."

"What will you do if I kiss you?"

_Lose my mind_ , I thought shocked.

He didn't give me a chance to answer. He closed the distance between us and suddenly, Milo's lips were against mine and I completely stopped thinking.

I tasted the coffee he'd drunk a few minutes ago. His breath was fresh, minty, like my favorite candy. His lips were soft against mine, brushing my own in a whisper, then more firmly. When I parted my lips, his tongue brushed my lips gently. I closed my eyes when he touched my jaw, deepening the kiss. His cool fingers sending thrills down my spine, I didn't want his kiss to stop.

He pulled back and a soft sound of protest escaped. I opened my eyes to find him taking my coffee cup, which was on the verge of tipping over. He placed it on the coffee table a few feet away and smiled at me.

"I've wanted to do that since yesterday. You stared at me with big green eyes, and blushed." He pressed a kiss on my jaw and sat back. "Will you show me Colston, Liron? Spend the day with me."

A whole day with Milo, I smiled at him. "Are you sure you don't want to spend it with your band mates. I'm not exactly equipped to deal with you."

"I'm spending my day with you." He insisted taking my ipod, he waved it at me. "I like your play list too. Come on, let's go enjoy the sun."

I drove Milo to the beach.

Imagining that he preferred not to announce who he was, I didn't call my friends. There weren't too many people at Lakeside Beach in the morning. I led the way through the trees to my spot, a secluded area away from the main beach where we wouldn't get a curious crowd.

Milo stripped down to his swimming shorts. He'd borrowed them from me at the apartment when I told him we could go to the beach. Taking off his sandals, he ran to the water and jumped when the cold water touched his toes.

I laughed as he jumped up and down for a moment before he finally took the plunge and ran in. I removed my t-shirt and sandals at a slower pace watching Milo swim in the water. This could be a dream; I thought when he waved at me the sun behind him. He looked so handsome. He beckoned me over and I started toward the water. If it was a dream, I didn't want to wake up.

We played like children in the water, we chased each other on the beach and build sand castles as if we were in grade school. When we got tired, we lay on the beach towels I'd brought along and slept under the sun. Well, Milo slept, and I spent my time watching him. When he woke up, he insisted on food.

I laughed because I'd read his rider for days before meeting him. My budget wouldn't fit his standards and there had been many. He must have noticed my hesitation because he reached out and touched my jaw gently.

"We can go to the local drive-thru," he said with a smile. "The Burger Place looked good."

There was no way we were going to eat in a fast food place. If this was the only day he would spend with me, I wanted it to be a bit memorable than The Burger Place. "We can go to a nicer restaurant, get some real food. There's a Chinese place close to my apartment-

"Done," he decided. "We can eat there too instead of take-out."

"What if people recognize you?"

"They won't, I do it all the time," Milo replied putting his sandals on. He held out his hand and I took it. He pulled me up and didn't stop until I was in his arms. He leaned to kiss me and I forgot all the reasons why he shouldn't be in a place like the Chinese Hundred Flowers restaurant.

His heat enveloped me, hotter than the blazing sun overhead. I clung to his broad tan shoulders, moaning when he pulled me closer to his chest. His fingers in my hair, his other hand sliding down my back, we kissed with abandon. Steeped in the magic of his lips, his intoxicating taste, I lost my reasoning capacity.

****

I drove us to the arena at four o'clock. Milo pulled his cap low on his head when we got close to the bunkers. Lucas was the only one checking the staff bands. I pulled my wristband from my pocket ready for check in. I gasped in shock when Lucas boldly dragged me into a tight hug and proceeded to run his hands over my back intimately before he let me go. He took my wrist, his touch too familiar, to scan my wristband.

"Where have you been?" Lucas asked leaning close. "You didn't call me last night. I missed you."

I was acutely aware of Milo standing in shock beside me. He didn't speak, and the smile he'd been wearing disappeared into a dark mask. He didn't look at me when he turned to enter the bunkers. Lucas reached out to stop him and stopped in surprise when Milo lifted his cap slightly.

"I'm sorry, Mr. Kai. I didn't recognize you."

"No problem," Milo said and kept on walking.

He didn't look back at me.

_I'm dirt_ , I thought. _No, worse than dirt, what was worse than dirt_?

Why was I even thinking about dirt? Gods, this wasn't my fault. I'd met Lucas first and hadn't known I'd end up in the arms of Milo Kai. Who in their right mind would have imagined the man would kiss me and send me flying off to space like an idiot? Why had he even come looking for me at my apartment? Rock stars stayed in their glass towers, getting drunk and partying until noon. How could I have known that he would show up in my apartment and turn my world upside down?

"Were you with him?" Lucas asked turning to look at me.

"No," I said with a shaky voice.

The denial was painful; I wanted to cry just for saying no. I pulled my hand out of Lucas's grasp and came up with a truthful explanation. "I went home really late and crashed on my bed the second I entered the house. I'm sorry I didn't call."

Lucas stared at me for a moment gauging my story. He glanced back to Milo's disappearing figure before he said quietly. "I'll be around after the concert ends, if you need me, Liron."

I nodded and hurried to the dressing rooms. I found Krista in Rob's dressing room. She was working with a seamstress to fix the length of Rob's trousers. Rob wasn't in the room I assumed he'd gone to talk to Milo. Krista grinned when she saw me and beckoned me over to sit next to her on the couch.

"How was it?" she asked.

"How was what?" I asked playing dumb.

"I know he showed up at your apartment. I'm the one who got the address for him."

She would have the access to my files. I frowned. "Why did he want to come over?"

She smiled mysteriously. "Didn't you have a good time?"

"So?" I asked. "Is it part of the tour? Do you look up a date for him in every city you go to?"

"No." Krista shook her head, a dark frown playing over her forehead. She stood and took my arm, dragging me out of Rob's dressing room and into the corridor. "Why would you say that?"

"It's not my first time working a concert, Krista. These musicians all have weird requests. I've heard stories."

"He's not like that, the only reason I sent him to your apartment was because I didn't want him wandering the city alone. Besides, you like him a lot; I figured it would be a great distraction."

"Distraction," I said quietly.

It certainly had been a distraction. We'd barely managed to keep our hands off each other after lunch. After eating at the Chinese restaurant, I drove us back to my apartment so that Milo could change. We'd ended up on my couch making out. Turns out, I couldn't get enough of Milo. I just wanted to keep kissing him until the world ended. Even then, I doubted we would know it was ending. I'd had kisses before, hell even sex with Lucas yesterday, none of it felt as great as it did just to kiss Milo.

"You're blushing again." Krista looked down the hall to Milo's closed dressing room. "Did something happen?"

"No." I thought about Milo's blank expression when Lucas grabbed me. "I don't know. Maybe I'm over thinking the situation. Forget we talked about this, what do you need me to do?"

"Well, the crew dressing room is pretty messy. We've been there all afternoon doing some alterations and making a mess while we fixed equipment. Will you get it all arranged?"

"Sure, I can do that." I needed to sidetrack my thoughts for the next couple of hours. Lucas was right; Milo was going away after two days. I couldn't allow myself to get more involved.

I carried out trash bags from the dressing rooms, arranged racks of clothing, packed unused equipment. When the dressing rooms were back to normal, I helped catering distribute bottles of water, and soft drinks. I served coffee to the crew. I ran errands hauling boxes of equipment and helping the stage crew when they needed it. I was in the cafeteria dumping more trash bags when Krista appeared at the door.

"Liron, you're needed in Milo's room. Take these with you?"

She handed me two hangers with pants and a pressed shirt.

My heart slammed against my chest as I walked down the hall. I hoped he wasn't mad. I wondered why he would be mad about Lucas. Then I remembered our kiss by the beach, our heated kissing session at my apartment and sighed.

_He might be a little mad at me_ , I thought.

Although, he wasn't dating me, and in two days, he was going to fly out of Colston and head to another town, or drive. I'd heard rumors about the band getting on a tour bus for the next leg. What did I know? Milo Kai wasn't my next-door neighbor and he certainly wasn't easy Lucas. I wasn't a monk, I'd had sex with other men, a couple women, and if he didn't like that then he could just shove it. What about him, didn't he have groupies lining up to take turns at his bedroom every night?

Hell, he might have had two of them in his bed last night. I stopped at his door and realized I was a little scared to enter.

The door suddenly flew open and there stood Milo without a shirt and in grey briefs. I couldn't look away from the considerable bulge in his underwear.

He took my arm and pulled me into the dressing room. Taking the hangers, he threw the clothes to the couch and locked the door. Pressing me against it, he braced his hands on either side of my head and looked into my eyes.

"Who is he?"

I blinked. "What-

"That security guy who grabbed you, who is he? Are you two together? How serious is it? I want you to break up with him."

He dropped his gaze and cursed under his breath.

"Milo-

"If you don't do it, I'll help you. I can't stand the thought of his hands on you." Milo's voice was harsh, he was trembling slightly and when he lifted his head and I looked into his eyes, I balked. _Ice blue fire, he was angry_.

"He's not my boyfriend," I said quietly, hoping to soothe the beast in his eyes. "We've been flirting. I met him for the first time last week. We had a moment yesterday-

"I don't want him touching you again." Milo repeated glaring at me. "This might seem ridiculous, but if you think I'm being irrational, you have every right to walk away from this right now."

He stepped back and unlocked the door. "If you think I'm being too much, Liron, leave. I won't touch you again, I won't look for you."

My hammering heart started painful squeezes. _What was he saying_?

"I find you beautiful," he said when I didn't move. He reached out and touched my hair gently. "Your blonde hair, the straight strands skimming your jaw, making me want to caress you. You look at me with such trusting eyes, I'm afraid I'll get lost in them. Your lips," he sighed and stepped closer, leaned to kiss me. "I want the privilege to do that all day, Liron."

"You can," I whispered.

"Not if he touches you. I might break him in half and you too." Milo shook his head. "I'm so jealous, Liron. I don't like to share."

I chuckled afraid of his intensity. Milo dropped his hands away and gave me space, giving me courage to reply. "I belong to myself, Milo."

"If you agree to be with me, you won't," Milo said with a hard tone. "You're going to be mine, Liron."

"Possessive much," I teased shakily moving around him. His clothes had fallen on the floor so I went to pick them up. "Stop scowling and get dressed. You're distracting me."

Unclipping the trousers from the hanger, I held them out to him and tried for a smile. He took them with a frown. "Where the hell have you been since we walked in? I thought you'd come straight in here."

"I was working."

He pulled on his trousers and buttoned them. "I've been going crazy thinking about you and that bastard together."

I held out the blue V-neck t-shirt that matched his eyes and watched him hide away his gorgeous chest. His hair was an unruly mess, my fingers itched to run through it and revel in its softness. Turning away from him, I went about picking up clothes he'd left on the couch and taking them to a rack in the corner.

"You didn't answer my question," he said behind me when I started hanging dress shirts.

"What question?"

"Are you going to be with me?"

He was leaving, how could I answer that question? I wanted him, there was no doubt there, I wanted him so bad, my body ached for him. One touch and I was going to be his slave, but to what purpose? We barely knew each other. My life was in Colston, and he belonged to the world.

"Liron," he prompted.

"Maybe we shouldn't think about that right now. Let's just get through tonight's concert."

"You promise to wait for me tonight, if you don't, I'll be very upset."

I finished with the clothes and turned to smile at him. "I'll be here."

"Promise me," he said with narrowed eyes. "I know where you live."

I laughed. "Is that a threat, Mr. Kai?"

"Mr. Kai just wants you to be around when he's done singing. Your turn to see my world, Liron, promise you won't leave."

"Well, when you put it like that how can I resist."

_How could I resist?_ There was no answer to my question, only Milo's blue eyes watching me as I watched him. There was need in them; I'd felt his need, tasted it.

I stared at him because I couldn't help it. I closed the distance between us because apart, we were both going to go mad. I kissed him this time, leaning up to press my lips against his. I moaned when he wrapped an arm around me and pulled me against him.

*****

My sister called me at around nine o'clock. I was busy arranging the green room for guests who would be meeting the band after the concert. Moving to a quiet corner, I answered her call remembering she'd just gotten off a double shift.

"What did you do to your school receipt?" she demanded the moment I answered the call. "Are you really that angry with Dad?"

Leaning my forehead on the wall, I took in a deep breath. "I'm not taking his money, not when he wouldn't be bothered for the past four years."

"You never went back home or called him, Liron. Listen to me, staying angry with Dad is not going to help either one of you. Your school is paid off, stop acting like a bastard and just call him. He wants to apologize."

I closed my eyes because she was right and I didn't want her to be. I'd spent four years holding on to my anger. Using that anger to get through each semester, especially when things had seemed extremely bleak. I wasn't ready to let it go.

"I'll have to think about this, Tara."

"Fine, just, don't wait too long, and since you're so busy, I'm going to pass by Colston U and give them this receipt. If I leave it up to you, you'll end up throwing it in the trash."

I was still going to pay Dad back. "Get some sleep, Tara. Stop worrying about me."

"I can't help it, you're my little brother. I'm home tomorrow in case you need anything. Good night, kiddo."

She hung up and I stood staring at my phone lost for a second. I didn't know what I would say to my father if I met him. The years had slipped away so quickly. Our house was across town, it took only twenty minutes to drive to it. I hadn't tried even once, not for Thanksgiving, Christmas or New Year's Day in four years. I was curious to know what would make my father change his mind.

Sticking my phone into my jeans pocket, I decided not to think about him until the concerts ended. I finished with the green room, arranging the furniture, keeping flowers to a minimal and making sure there would be refreshments.

An hour later, the concert ended, Milo, Rob and Kardis left the stage, sweating from their energetic performance. I made sure they got towels and bottles of water. They stopped at the Green room to make the necessary appearances. Their record label had brought guests and execs for a short meet. When they finished, Rob and Kardis announced they'd be going out for the night.

Amidst the ensuing excitement, Milo grabbed my hand and led me to his dressing room. He closed the door and pulled me into his arms. I went willingly, returning his fervent kiss, clinging to his sweat drenched t-shirt on the verge of losing control. He pushed me against the door, tugging the edges of my t-shirt. I trembled, a soft hiss escaping when his palms swept over my back, then down to cup my ass. He pulled me closer and bit my lower lip.

"I was thinking about you on stage." Milo whispered as he trailed hot kisses along my jaw to my ear. "What it will feel like to be inside you. How it will be when I take you all night until we can't move."

My fingers dug into his shoulders when he sucked on my neck, hard, marking me, his hands igniting my body as they explored. I wanted him too, needed him, _right now!_

A knock on the door interrupted us, and he cursed. "Who is it?"

"It's me," Rob said on the other side.

I stiffened in Milo's arms and he sighed. Stepping back, he cupped my jaw gently and pressed a soft kiss on my forehead. "Soon, Liron, stay with me."

I nodded and moved to sit on the couch as he opened the door. Rob walked in casually drinking water from a bottle.

"Did I interrupt?" Rob asked looking at me with a small smile.

"Yes." "No." Milo and I answered at the same time making Rob chuckle.

"Looks like you've got your hands full," Rob told Milo. "Don't disappear tomorrow, we have a full schedule."

"I won't." Milo promised glancing at me.

"Are you coming to the club?"

"No, I'm busy." Milo smiled at me and Rob chuckled.

"Great, I'll see you tomorrow then, around ten o'clock." Rob headed for the door.

Milo closed the door and turned to me. He pushed off the door and walked to his desk where he picked up a notebook and his jacket. Coming to the couch, he took my hand and I stood smiling at him. He kissed me and I stopped thinking for a full minute.

"Let's get out of here," he said quietly. Taking the cap he'd taken from me, he placed it over my head and dropped the jacket around my shoulders. "Don't let go of my hand, you hear me."

I nodded not sure what he was talking about; he led the way out of the dressing room. Krista met us at the docking zone where she had a security team flank us. Milo tightened his fingers on mine. His grip gentle and at the same time tight, comforting, it made me want to trust him.

When we got outside, I had the shock of my life. The mob was huge, blocking the exit, cameras flashing, crowds screaming the moment they caught a glimpse of Milo. I didn't see how we were going to get through. I lowered my head and followed Milo, my left hand clutched in his right, the other holding on to the back of his t-shirt as we followed the security team.

A short war of push and shove ensued, papers, toys and pens shoved at Milo's face. To a point where he had to stop and sign the proffered goods to get away, that's when I realized he was left-handed. He never once let go of my hand. We finally made it to the black limousine and he shoved me in first before he followed. Krista entered the front passenger seat and three of the security team joined us in the back.

"Are you alright?" he asked me when the car started moving. The driver had to honk each step of the way until we finally made it to the main parking lot.

"I'm fine, that was nuts."

"It was better than other times." Milo glanced at me with a short smile although I could easily read the tension on his face. We didn't talk on the short ride to the hotel. The main city was busy. It was Friday night after all. A crowd waited at the front entrance of the hotel. The driver chose to stop at a discrete side entrance in the alley. We headed straight for the elevator and once in, Krista handed Milo a key card and waved us off.

Milo's suite was on the top floor, a spacious room that was easily twice the size of my apartment. I stood in the middle of the luxurious living area feeling out of place. This was his world, far from mine.

Then he touched me, I turned to find him standing beside me. The distance disappeared and suddenly all that remained were two men needing each other.

*****

Milo turned showering into a sensual adventure. In the shower, he soaped my whole body, rubbing every inch of my skin with a loofer, then with his hands. He followed with gentle massages on my shoulders, down my spine to my ass. His lips on mine, he pulled me against his slick body, and I wrapped my arms around his shoulders and deepened our kiss lost in sensation. I returned the favor, running my hands over his the muscles on his shoulders, watching the soap glide over his skin, down his back to his ass. My fingers followed, massaging, caressing, down the backs of his thighs and legs. He turned and as my hands came up his legs to his thighs, the loofer fell to the marbled floor and I stared at his hard, slick cock.

I looked up to meet his gaze before I reached to touch him. His cock pulsed in my hands as I stroked him slowly. He was hotter than the water raining down on us. His cock was as hard as steel, the crown red and slick, just begging for my lips. I leaned forward and licked him. Tasting him, I closed my eyes and licked him again, wanting more. He hissed his fingers dug into my hair when I took him into my mouth and sucked hard. He was big; I sucked his swollen head, loving the taste of him. Popping him out, I licked him like, worshipped him with my tongue sliding over and under him, lapping greedily at his length, to the base and back up again. Using my hands, I stroked him, loving his harsh groan, and his fingers tight in my hair as I sucked on his cock greedily.

His hips jerked, and he thrust into my mouth, slowly at first, my tongue slid hotly over his length, my hands went to his hips as he thrust in to my mouth again. My fingers dug into his skin as his pace increased, I sucked him hard, even as his length reached the back of my throat, and I burned for air, little moans escaping as he thickened, burned hot, and then filled my mouth as he came with harsh cries. I swallowed his hot cum, savoring his taste as he pulled out of my mouth and reached for my shoulders.

Dragging me to my feet, I moaned when he covered my mouth with his and kissed me wantonly, his hands roaming my body possessively. His hands grabbed my ass, pulling me against him, grinding his hardening cock against mine. He reached between us and took my cock with his hand, stroking my length until I moaned, then he cupped my balls giving them a gentle massage. I gasped in pleasure, needing him. Every inch of me throbbed for him, my cock was hard against my stomach, and I wanted him to take me and do it hard. Leaning me against the tiled wall, he reached for shampoo and dumped a healthy amount onto his palm. Returning the bottle, he smiled and sunk his fingers into my hair, massaging my scalp. He washed my hair, scrubbing with the exact amount of pressure; I felt mesmerized by his hands. When he was done, he made me turn and face the wall. Hands braced against the tiles, I tipped my head back to him as he rinsed my hair, running fingers through the soft strands until there was no soap.

Leaning my head on his shoulder, I closed my eyes as his hands ran over my chest, stopping to play with my nipples, his right hand slid down to take my cock. I wanted him to stroke me, make me cum, instead, he just held me.

We stood under the hot water, his cock hard against my ass, while he held mine in a gentle caress.

When we got on the huge bed in his bedroom, I was ready to beg for him. Milo pulled back the covers and arranged the pillows in the middle of the bed. He made me lie down, my skin still damp from our long shower. My body throbbed pleasantly from his caresses and the hot water, I did as he asked, my hips raised by the pillows. Milo opened the bedside drawer and got a bottle of lube. He smiled at me and then I felt him climb onto the bed.

Caught in a passion storm from that moment; he teased me, played with me, and left no part of me untouched. His fingers delving inside me, driving me to ecstasy repeatedly, when he finally took me, I clung to him, arching in relief at his heat. Our bodies' slick with sweat, he cried out harshly when he came deep inside me, his mouth at my neck above me and his hands gripping my hips tight.

I passed out after that, woke up hours later to Milo moving in and out of me, his hand on stroking my cock slowly bringing me to a gratifying climax when he came inside me. We slept in a tangle of limbs, not wanting to let each other go even for a second.

*~*~*

I woke up in a warm cocoon, opening my eyes, a smile tugged at my lips at the sight of Milo deep asleep. His head on the same pillow as mine, his right arm over my chest, our legs tangled under the wrinkled sheet wrapped around my waist and one of his legs.

Milo breathed out gently and I stayed still watching him. I'd never actually slept with a lover before. Sleeping was intimate, waking up next to someone was...revealing. Waking up with drool down my chin would hardly be attractive to my lovers and there was the problem with morning breath. I brought my hand up to my mouth cupping my fingers against my mouth I blew into my hand to make sure. No stinky breath for me, thank goodness.

"Morning," Milo interrupted my little exercise and I scowled at him. He was smiling hard.

"Morning," I croaked with a blush hoping my eyes didn't have crap in them.

He chuckled and touched my jaw gently. "I don't think you have anything to worry about. Your breath is just fine."

I smiled and shook my head. "I can't believe you caught me doing that."

He leaned closer to press his lips on my jaw. I turned into him, my hands around his back. His kisses trailed to my mouth and I forgot concerns about morning breath. My body was ready for him, needing him. His hand slipped between us and he found my morning erection. I clung to him when he took both our cocks and stroked, slipping and sliding with our weeping pre-cum until we came. He had his hand covered with our mingled scents; he ran it up my back, fingers digging into my hair as he deepened our kiss.

We lazed in bed, caressing and exploring each other. I blew him twice he took me hard. I cried out in ecstasy the second time. He'd found that part of me that ignited every nerve in my body. I came so hard I found religion. We lay sprawled on the bed afterwards just staring into each other's eyes.

He was ruining me.

*~*~*

Thirty minutes to ten, we both showered and while Milo was fully dressed in black leather pants and a soft black shirt, his hair damp from our shower. I sat cross-legged on the bed with only a towel across my hips.

"I have to go home," I told him. I didn't have clothes to wear. He'd ruined my t-shirt last night in our haste to get into the shower and my jeans were dirty from working last night.

"Nope," he protested sitting on the edge of the bed. "Don't leave me just yet. I'll get you clothes."

He kissed me and I closed my eyes when he sucked on my lip. I wanted him again, seemed like all I could feel in the last twenty-four hours. Want more of Milo on me...in me.

"I need to do some errands,' I said.

It was a lie but he didn't need to know that. I wanted time away from him. Time to make sure that this was just very hot sex and I wouldn't crave it once Milo was gone.

Milo's eyes narrowed in speculation, in the next second, he stood up abruptly and hurried to an open suitcase in the corner where he pulled out clothes in a wild mess. Shirts, long sleeved Henley tops and jeans. He checked the labels muttering under his breath. A gray long sleeved t-shirt smacked me on my face. I reached for it just as black jeans flew to my head.

"You need a belt for those," he said and went into the closet.

Pulling on the shirt, I tugged the sleeves to my elbow and got off the bed to wear the jeans. They fit but the waist was a tad wide and I had to fold the bottoms coz the jeans were too long. Milo returned with a black belt, which he tugged through the loops on my jeans. I breathed in his clean, minty scent that I now knew came from his cologne, mingled in with his own.

"What kind of errands?" Milo asked close to my ear as he tugged the belt buckle into place.

I touched his black shirt, marveling at how it framed his body. "School errands, there are some documents I need to get."

"I can come with you," he offered quietly.

"Rob told you to stay. I heard Krista saying you have a full schedule today. You don't have time to come with me, Milo."

"Then stay with me," Milo begged. "Can't this errand wait until we leave?"

' _Until we leave_ ,' I thought with a scoff. He was leaving tomorrow evening, going to another city and would probably find another lover to keep him company. The lump in my throat didn't make sense to me.

"I'll be back before you know it," I promised, tugging his shirt, I gave him a small smile.

"Liron," he started but a knock on the door interrupted and he sighed. "Fine, run away for a while."

He smiled sadly. He kissed me again and I closed my eyes savoring the warmth his kiss sent sailing through me.

The knock came again and he sighed, pulling away from me. I ignored the uncertain glance he turned to me when he started for the door and picked up the socks he'd placed on the bed.

I wore my socks and shoes while Milo let Krista in. I found my dirty jeans on an armchair near the bathroom door. Searching the pockets, I got my wallet, cell phone and car keys, folded my jeans and left the bedroom. I found Krista and Milo in serious discussion. Krista touched Milo's arm when she saw me, halting their talk.

"Morning, Liron," she said in greeting. "You look well rested. I hope you're ready for breakfast?"

I shook my head and tried not to meet Milo's gaze. "I actually have to go, there's somewhere I need to be. I can't stay for breakfast."

I kept walking toward the door, hoping to make a quick escape.

"Liron," Milo said moving to intercept me. I grabbed the door handle and pulled it open before he could reach me.

"I'll see you later," I said quickly ducking out of the room.

He let me go.

*~*~*~*

Chapter 3

"Where have you been?" Tara asked the moment I entered the apartment an hour later.

"Getting my car," I said jingling my keys at her. "Got a ride from a friend and left it at the arena parking lot last night."

"You're working too hard." Tara complained from her perch on the couch. She was still in her purple scrubs, nursing a mug of coffee. The television tuned to a rerun of the Munsters. She'd obviously just come home from work. Dumping my dirty jeans on a small stool by the door, I joined her on the couch. I stretched out with a sigh resting my head on her lap.

"You look wiped out." She combed fingers through my hair. "How is Milo Kai? I haven't seen you to ask."

"He's good."

Tara tugged my hair gently. "That sounds so anticlimactic, did something happen?"

I'd had time to reflect during my round trip around town to get my car. I kept thinking of the empty feeling I'd felt after Lucas the night before. It wasn't the same with Milo; I could still feel his hands on me. Remember every kiss, and touch, Tara scratched my scalp and I met her inquiring gaze.

"Nothing important," I answered denying my emotions. I wouldn't allow them to make a decision until tomorrow night when Milo left.

Tara sipped her coffee giving me a speculative glance. "I'm going to go pass out in a few minutes, but before that. We need to talk about you and dad."

"I'm going to pay back every cent of his money." I'd collect my papers from school after receiving my paycheck on Monday, day after the band was gone. "I can't forgive him so easily."

"He's having a hard time, Liron."

Tara's tone had me sitting up. I knew that tone; I'd heard it when mom died. She'd used it to keep me calm, gentle, comforting. She was using it now to try to get me to forgive Dad.

"What's going on?"

"Dad was at the hospital a month ago."

I closed my eyes afraid. "Is he dying?"

"No, Liron," she said shaking her head. "He's not dying, I'd have told you right away. His doctor wanted him to take a few tests and change his diet. He's healthy, but that expression you're wearing right now is the reason why you need to talk to him. I told him the same thing."

The large wave of relief flowing through me made me scowl. I was angry with Dad, but having him get sick was another thing. Mom had died when Tara and I had been young; watching Mom struggle through her short illness had been hard. It was probably the reason why Tara had ended up a nurse. I didn't want to lose my dad.

Clearing my throat, I sat back on the couch and shook my head. "I don't know what to say to him."

"You can thank him for paying off your school."

"He refused to pay it in the first place."

"You managed to get through four years, Liron. He's proud of you," Tara countered.

I scoffed. "If he'd helped, I might have finished my courses last year, Tara. I'd be so far right now."

Tara sighed and raised her hand in surrender. "Fine, obviously that's a sore subject. Why don't we take baby steps? Since you're working nights, we can go over to his house for lunch."

"Today," I asked skeptic about family reunions. It seemed somewhat sudden; I needed time to get used to the idea of talking to my father.

"I see the wheels turning in your brain." Tara stood up and took her mug into the kitchen. She returned after a few minutes biting back a yawn. "We can go Monday after you pick up your transcripts. I'm off then."

I nodded and waved her down the hall. "Go get some rest, I'll clean up."

"Are you sure everything is okay? You're kind of subdued; I'm surprised my ears are not ringing right now about Dad's faults."

I shrugged. "I'm in shock." In many ways, I thought my brain filled with Milo.

"Shock my ass," Tara laughed.

She headed to her room and left me watching the Munsters. Allowing my head to go blank, I lazed around until one of my college friends called me out to the beach an hour later.

I spent the rest of the day hanging at the lake with the guys. We hit the coffee house on my street for lunch, and I worked on keeping myself grounded to reality. Milo seemed too good a dream and that's where he was going to stay.

I showed up for work at four, Lucas stood at the entrance again. This time however, he stepped back when I got close and allowed his partner to check me in to work. I couldn't bring myself to meet his gaze. I told myself I deserved the guilt I felt after the past week of flirting with him. I'd led him on probably as Milo was leading me on. Tomorrow evening, I'd be in Lucas's shoes too, watching Milo drive away from this city for good.

"You're late," Krista met me at the docking zone. "Milo has been asking for you."

I sighed. "I don't have to go in there if you have work for me. Are you sure, the dressing rooms clean? I can-

"I need you in Milo's dressing room. There's plenty of work in there, go now." Krista walked off toward the production office.

"Jeez, what's wrong with a simple hello around here," I grumbled.

Knocking on the door, I walked in to the dressing room and stopped when I found the room in disarray. Pizza boxes, plastic cups, empty water bottles, clothes piled in the corner and no Milo in the vicinity. There was a small pang of disappointment, but mostly I decided to concentrate on cleanup. Looks like Blu Dream's crew might have had a lunch in Milo's room, or some kind of party.

I was busy stuffing pizza boxes into a trash bag when Milo walked in. He looked...my heart could have stopped if that were possible. He'd changed from the leather pants I'd left him in at the hotel. He'd replaced them with rugged blue jeans and a sweaty green faded t-shirt. His feet were in sandals, and his hair was a wild mess. He drank water deeply from a bottle in his hand and I watched him swallow.

"Liron," Kardis said jolting my thoughts away from Milo. I hadn't noticed they'd come in together. "Where have you been?"

"I just came in," I said continuing my work. When the last of the pizza boxes were in the trash bag, I got started on the plastic cups and empty water bottles. "No hangover today?"

Kardis laughed. "I learned my lesson. I drank plenty of water last night to keep me hydrated. We missed you at breakfast this morning. I heard you ducked out of the hotel pretty fast."

"I had some errands to run." My gaze skipped to Milo who stood leaning on the wall by the door reading the label on his water bottle.

"So you guys have one more day in Colston," I prompted Kardis working fast.

"Yeah, Colston is unexpected. Great crowd last night, at the concert and for the after party," Kardis said dropping onto the couch. "We went over to a bar called Ricky's late in the night. I didn't expect such a good time considering the size of the place, but the crowd was entertaining."

"Ricky's can get rowdy, depends who you go with." Finishing with the trash, I stopped by the clothing rack and started hanging shirts. "Where are you headed next?"

"Chicago," Kardis answered. "We'll drive out tomorrow on the bus right after the concert. The crew has been planning packing logistics all day."

_So soon_ , I frowned pausing in the act of hanging clothes. Milo was still leaning on the wall. He'd ripped the label on the bottle to shreds. I scowled at the small pieces on the floor. I'd have to get that cleaned up before I left.

"Well, it's been great having you guys here." I told Kardis with a small smile.

"Kardis," Milo said quietly. "Can you give us a sec?"

Kardis turned to look at Milo with a frown. "Why? Liron and I are having a nice talk-

"You can have it later." Milo snapped his eyes burning when he turned to Kardis.

I picked up familiar leather pants from the floor and clipped them to a hanger. I placed the hanger on the rack, keenly aware of the uncomfortable silent communication between Kardis and Milo. It was obvious I was missing something when Kardis got up abruptly and stormed out of the room without a word to me.

The door slammed closed and I jerked my head up to find Milo staring at me.

"I hope your breakfast was good?" I said hoping to diffuse his bad mood.

"Is that what you want to talk about?" Milo asked pushing off the wall. He walked to the couch and placed his empty bottle in one of the trash bags I had sitting on the coffee table. "Don't you want to discuss why you practically ran away this morning?"

"I had errands, Milo."

I gave him my back and concentrated on picking up clothes and hanging them.

"Liron, I'm not stupid."

"I never said you were."

"Then why are you lying to me? Did you go to that security guard's house?"

"What?" I turned to find he'd moved around the couch and was now standing right behind me. "Why would you think that?"

He ran fingers through his hair, messing it up more, made me want to reach out and brush it away from his face. "What am I supposed to think when you looked so guilty leaving my hotel room this morning?"

"I didn't mean anything by it-," I stopped because I had no idea how to explain the panic threatening to suffocate me. He was so bloody intense, making it impossible to take this...fling casually. What did he want from me?

"Liron-

"You're leaving tomorrow," I reminded him meeting his gaze. "We had great sex last night, mind blowing for me. I need to make sure that it stays just that."

Milo stood so still for a moment I thought he hadn't heard what I'd said. I shouldn't have worried, I thought a minute later. He closed the distance between us, and fused our lips together. My fingers bunched his t-shirt helplessly when my arms went around him. Clinging to him, every cell in my body humming with excitement, I returned his kiss hungrily. I'd spend the day trying to forget the feel of him. Hoping to forget how tight he held me when he kissed me, how good he tasted, I could kiss him all day.

A soft sigh escaped when his lips trailed hotly along my jaw, changing to teasing bites at the curve of my neck and shoulder. He moaned. "You went to the beach without me; I can taste the salt water on you."

"My friends called me," I said softly in apology.

He lifted his head to kiss me again and I gave up logical thought for the next hour when he directed us to the couch.

*~*~*

"We're insane," I said lying under him on the couch, my fingers combing through his hair. "This is insane."

Milo lifted his head slightly to kiss my shoulder. "Admit that you ran away this morning."

When I didn't respond, he bit my shoulder gently and my fingers tightened in his hair. "Fine, I did runaway."

"Were you even going to school to pick your documents?"

"No, I came here, picked up my car and drove to my apartment."

"No security dude?"

"Promise," I said with a small chuckle when he licked the spot he'd bitten.

Milo shifted slightly to the side and with his head propped on his right hand, he said quietly. "Will it help if I tell you that I don't do this with all my dressing assistants?"

I wished I could believe him. I wanted to so badly, but I knew my own habits. I'd practically been with Lucas a day ago. If Milo hadn't noticed me, I figured Lucas and I would probably know each other better.

"Fine," Milo said before I could reply. "I haven't had it this good with anyone in a while. Is that an easier confession?"

"For me too," I said truthfully.

"That's a start." He touched my jaw and smiled.

"You're still leaving tomorrow."

"Then come with me," he said casually.

_As if it was that easy_ , I scoffed silently. Get on a bus with Blu Dream and head off to Chicago, for the rest of the summer. Forget trying to get an actual job and dealing with my father. What about Tara and the rent-

"I can't do that, Milo." I shook my head. "I have things I need to do here."

"Just for the summer until the tour ends in September, then I'll bring you back to Colston myself," Milos said.

I frowned turning to look at him. He seemed serious, his expression stubborn and set.

"You're crazy, Milo."

"That wasn't the response I was going for, but at least it's not an outright refusal. I have until tomorrow to change your mind."

"What if I don't change my mind?" I asked him quietly.

I could swear I saw sadness flit in his eyes, but it disappeared as fast as it came. So fast, I could have imagined it. Unable to give him the answer he wanted, I decided that kissing was better than talk. I had until tomorrow to get as much of him as I could.

Minutes turned into hours, hours into one magical night. Milo was magnificent to watch on stage, his energy spilling so wide into the crowd, the audience was in frenzy that night. After the concert, we went out with the band, Kardis and Rob bought drinks for the crew. Milo and I, well-, I got lost in him and didn't surface until the next day during the final concert.

My heart, after the hours of fighting to keep it untouched, broke when I helped Krista and the band's crew drag Milo's bags to the bus before the concert ended. Blu Dream had checked out of the hotel earlier and all their gear packed in three loaded tour buses for the next leg of the tour.

Milo kept asking me to leave with him, but I just couldn't right now. I hauled two coolers into the bus Milo was going to be using and took them to the kitchen.

Krista was already there checking a list.

"Where do I put these?"

She opened a cupboard built into the wall by her feet and I stuck the coolers in. When I was done, I turned to leave but she stopped me with a hand on my elbow.

"In case I don't get a chance to say it, thank you so much, Liron." She smiled and leaned to hug me. "You've been a great friend to have in Colston."

"If you're ever back here," I said although I doubted that very much, "don't hesitate to call me."

"You got it," she said and pulled back.

I left her in the bus and went to sit on a bench by the docking zone. The concert was still going, a few more minutes left before it ended; music instruments and Milo's voice filled the night air, mingled with screams from his audience. I leaned my head back to stare at the clear summer night and wondered at the blinking stars.

Milo had repeated his request for me to go with the band again today. We'd made love all morning in a frantic pace, greedily trying to burn the passion quickly. Instead of burning out, we'd only managed to fan the flames. Unfortunately, Krista had arrived too soon to break us apart. The band had spent the rest of the day answering questions from Colston journalists, and meeting gazillion groups that wanted to take pictures with them.

I'd left Milo doing an interview with a local reporter in order to make it to the arena in time to help pack up the buses. Now here I sat, I closed my eyes.

"Liron," Kardis said softly.

I opened my eyes to find Kardis and Rob standing a few feet away. Blinking back tears I hadn't known were coming, I pasted on a smile.

"You're done." I tried to keep my voice cheerful.

Kardis and Rob sat on each side of me on the bench.

"So, I heard you got an offer to come along." Rob tousled my hair with his fingers. "What's stopping you?"

"My life," I joked with a small laugh. I needed to find a job, and I couldn't leave Tara in the lurch for two months. I had responsibilities here.

"I can understand that," Kardis said gently. "I know we just met, but we're going to miss you."

"Don't get piss drunk," I told him in turn.

"Milo's going to miss you." Rob supplied bumping his shoulder into me.

I dropped my head, hating how sad I felt. "I'll miss him too."

"Here," Kardis held out a black narrow plastic card. "Don't lose it."

I stared at the card with the band's name stamped in the back and a barcode at the bottom. "What's this?"

"A backstage pass," Kardis declared with a smile. "The last concert on the Kaleidoscope tour is at the MSG in New York. In case you change your mind about coming."

Security poured out into the docking zone, and both Rob and Kardis stood.

"I hope you show up at the concert, Liron," Rob said just as Milo appeared at the exit. "You'd better get in his bus if you want to say goodbye."

I felt cheated. There wasn't enough time to say all I wanted to say. I entered the bus first, and sat on the couch waiting for Milo. I wished I could leave with him. I wished I could believe that there was more to us than inexplicable great chemistry. I wanted to leave Colston and find out what we could have, but-

The door opened and time ran out. Milo walked in sweaty from his performance, wiping his hair with a towel. He sat on the couch across me when he finally saw me.

"So," he asked with a raised brow. "Are your bags in the bus?"

I shook my head no, and watched his eyes turn a dark stormy blue. "I can't leave, Milo. I have-

"Things to take care of, you keep saying that," he said quietly. "What about you and me? Don't you want to find out if we can make it together?"

"You and I, it could be nothing." I instantly cursed my big mouth for the callous comment. This wasn't 'nothing', we weren't ' _nothing_ ', and I knew that. "I'm sorry, that's not what-

"It's what you meant, don't take it back." Milo bunched his towel and stared at the floor. "I understand, Liron."

He stood up and held out his right hand. I took it without hesitation, the hot thrills that ran up my arm familiar. I closed my eyes when he hugged me and pressed a kiss on top of my hair. I tipped my head back slightly when he leaned to kiss my lips. A soft comforting kiss that had me holding on to him afraid to let him go. He stepped back and I gasped at the hollow feeling in my chest.

"Not too many have the courage to leap off the edge to the unknown, Liron." Milo smiled and held out a small folded paper. I took it with trembling fingers. "In case you change your mind."

****
Chapter 4

I regretted walking off that bus. For love, I probably should have kept sitting on that couch and when Milo asked me if my bags were packed, I should have said yes, or made him stop by my apartment to get them. Instead, I'd taken a small folded paper and stuck it into my jeans, given him a chaste kiss on his jaw and walked out.

July ended without ceremony. I worked odd jobs in between interviews for a graphic design position. The job market was stiff and I was afraid I might not get what I was looking for.

Tara on the other hand got lucky and landed a promotion at the hospital, her paycheck doubled. Good news for her, but it felt like a kick in the mouth for me. I'd refused to leave with Milo thinking she'd need my help. Now, it seemed as though he was right about me not having enough courage to take a chance.

With each day that passed, every part of me missed him. Four weeks of regret, of needing and wishing, what-ifs were a dangerous bedmate.

Walking out of another corner office, this time at the Colins & Higgins advertising firm on Main Street, I loosened my tie and hurried to the elevator craving fresh air and sunshine. The questions asked by Mr. Colins had been grueling, my answers mediocre and even though I had a solid portfolio, I was sure I'd failed the interview. Not enough enthusiasm, I suppose. Milo seemed to have taken my zest for life when he'd left Colston.

That night, my shift at Wilson's Bar ended without problems. I worked from seven to closing time, which was just after one o'clock. I drove home sedately, strange but the relief that always hit me when I walked up the stairs to the apartment was missing. It had been missing for a while now.

I entered the apartment and stopped short when I saw Tara curled up on the couch laughing hard. She looked pretty in a short denim skirt and a sleeveless red top. Her long blonde hair fell down her shoulders in a silky cloud. She wasn't alone on the couch.

Our next-door neighbor, Neal Landry, sat on the couch beside my sister wearing a familiar expression. His eyes wide with awe, mouth slightly parted, he was clearly mesmerized. It pissed me off even though I liked the guy.

Neal was a math teacher at Colston high. Nice fellow, I grimaced closing the door behind me, when he wasn't crashing on my sister.

"Hey," Tara said smiling wide. "Did you eat?"

"I'm fine," I looked at Neal, "hi, Mr. Landry."

"Call me Neal," he said with a friendly smile.

He was handsome in a bookish way; his brown hair cut short to escape the summer heat. He usually wore it longer during the winter months; I remembered a brown riot of curls on his head. His hazel eyes were kind; they looked at me with slight apprehension, mixed in with slight defiance. He liked Tara enough to stand his ground. I admired him for that but I really wasn't in the mood to be nice.

Tara cleared her throat and I turned to find her scowling at me. She clearly wanted me to leave them alone.

I gave Neal a tight smile and headed for my room with a short wave in Tara's direction. I closed my bedroom door to the sound of a happy giggle from Tara. She was happy, I wasn't.

Turning on the lights, I dumped my portfolio and suit on the overstuffed couch right by the door. I'd changed earlier at the bar into a t-shirt and jeans since a suit wasn't really the best uniform for bartending. I sat down at my desk and found the paper Milo had given me that last day. I traced the number scribbled in blue with my index finger and I wondered if Milo had found a Colston pen for his collection. I'd vowed to give him the Colston pen, but that had completely slipped my mind that weekend.

I pulled out my cell phone from the front pocket of my jeans and punched in the numbers. When I was done, I sat staring at my phone as I'd done for weeks now. My finger hovered over the call button and I found that I simply couldn't do it. I didn't know what to say to him. I was afraid the moment I heard his voice, I was going to start begging him to come back.

Placing my phone on the desk carefully, I sighed and sat back in my chair. I'd turned into a cyber-stalker in the past month. I trolled through the internet haunting websites and blogs with news about Blu Dream.

The band was currently in Atlanta for two shows at the Georgia Dome. Milo's voice continued to enthrall millions, but all that mattered to me was whether he'd found another man to intrigue him. There were rumors about a secret lover, and that Milo wasn't going out with his band mates after concerts. The Blu Dream fans were convinced that he was staying at his hotel with his new lover. Each one of those rumors sent a deep dagger in my heart. Milo might have found someone else to fill my place, but I was still pining for him.

I rubbed my eyes to ease the ache forming behind them and forced myself to think of the future. I was better off planning for my next interview instead of dreaming and wishing for the impossible. Milo Kai was never going to be mine.

*~*~*~*

"Call him," Kardis insisted after we'd unpacked ready for the Atlanta concerts. "Krista gave you his number, stop being a coward and just dial."

"He's not ready for me," I said settling against the comfortable pillows on my bed.

My head was pounding again from all the travel. We'd driven all night to get to Atlanta and I hadn't slept much. Closing my eyes, I wished Kardis would leave. I even hoped the many young women prowling the lobby hoping for a glimpse of Blu Dream's members would distract him.

Cruel of me, I know, Kardis's wife was a sweet little woman who'd managed to keep her cool through the madness brought on by fame. Melissa kept Kardis grounded; I'd never want him to cheat on her. I was jealous of their relationship. The same way I was jealous of Rob and his Isabella, the exotic beauty who couldn't speak good English. She was a successful model who traveled as much as Rob did, and they managed to keep their relationship going.

_Why was my dear Liron firmly entrenched in a city that I'd just discovered four weeks ago?_

We would be so perfect for each other. I sighed remembering his green eyes staring at me when we'd first met in that hallway backstage. His eyes so wide, I'd fallen deep that first day.

Kardis called Liron an innocent, untouched. A smile tugged my lips. Liron was hardly untouched. I'd loved every moment we'd spend tangled in each other's arms. He made me want to possess him, have him look at me forever with his beautiful wide green eyes. I was mad with wanting him.

"Fine, if you don't call him, I will," Kardis threatened.

I sat up gaping at my best friend. "Please-

"You're not functioning. Work and sleep, work and sleep, when you can't sleep more work, you're fucking with everyone's peace of mind."

"It has to be his choice, Kardis," I insisted.

Love was a bitch I didn't mess with because I'd been down her road before. I'd gotten my heart broken for trusting too much, and not trusting enough. Meeting Kardis's gaze, I sighed.

"You were right, Liron's not like the others but, the moment you call him this stops being about me and him and instead it will turn into Liron and Blu Dream. He's not dating you or Rob; I want him to want me."

"Not every man is your ex," Kardis countered with a sigh. "Declan was a user."

"He cost me an obscene amount of money and a house in Maui to get rid of him."

I'd loved Declan with all my heart. Thinking my feelings reciprocated, I'd offered him everything; he'd rewarded me by cheating on me with a roadie. Declan was the one I'd trusted too much.

"Liron seems sensible. He paid his own way through school and he keeps it real," Kardis said as though he were trying to sell Liron's merits.

There was no need for the sales pitch. _I wanted Liron in my life._

"He's also living in Colston city, where his family is," I told Kardis falling back on my pillows. "I don't think I can make him leave them behind and come with me."

Truth was I'd loved Colston. The beach, Liron's handsome apartment, the bar we'd hang out after the concert that one night and the hotel room I'd never forget. Being with Liron, I closed my eyes remembering the feel of him against me. His slender body pliant against my much larger one, taking him, swallowing his heated gasps when he came; I turned on my side with a sigh. I took a pillow and hugged it tight.

I wanted him back in my bed.

"I'll give him this week," I told Kardis. "The moment we hit New York, I promise I'll call him."

"Are you sure?" Kardis asked coming around the bed to touch my shoulder. "You can always make the first move."

"I did, he turned me down. He has to make the choice, Kardis. The same way Melissa did with you. Our lives are not so easy."

Kardis squeezed my shoulder in understanding. "Fine, Milo. I'll wait until we hit New York."

*~*~*~*

"You're scowling again, do you hate my cooking that much?" Dad asked from across the table.

I stared at the grilled chicken on my plate and stabbed the piece I'd cut off with my fork. Taking a bite, I put on a strained smile and directed it to my father. This was the third dinner in the space of two months. August was on its second week now.

Tara was determined we reconcile, but I firmly believed in baby steps towards any goal. Except job hunting, that I didn't mind leaping with great strides. I still couldn't forgive my dad for letting me down when I made my own career choices. He was doing his best to make up for it, but I'm a stubborn bastard.

Dad put his fork down and wiped his mouth with a napkin. He was older than I remembered, his hair graying at the temple, when I'd left, he'd had a healthy black mane, strange how things changed with time. He watched me with green sad eyes.

"Liron," he started and I sighed knowing this was going to be another talk about forgiveness. "We don't have to do this if it's so hard for you."

"Tara asked me to come, so I came."

"You've always done what she asked of you." He smiled fondly and my scowl must have deepened because he continued quickly. "It's a good thing, Liron. At least there is still someone you trust in the family."

"I trusted you too," I said giving up on the food. It was delicious, but my appetite seemed to have flown out the window along with my patience. "Why the hell did you want to punish me for choosing to be a graphic designer? Why was it so important I become a doctor?"

"Liron-

"I'm really curious. If you tell me why, Dad, I swear, I'll do my best to make this relationship work."

"I didn't mean for our disagreements to go so long," Dad said quietly. "I thought you drove out of here to blow off steam and then you'd be back and we would talk. Instead, you never came back and I was too proud to look for you."

"You told me to pay for my own college. I went out to sort myself."

"I wanted what's best for you."

"Being a doctor wasn't what I wanted, so it wasn't best for me. You'd think you'd be more pissed about my coming out."

"I was wrong, you were right. I should have trusted the son I raised to make his own decisions. What you've managed to accomplish despite me is great, I'm proud of you."

The words came out so easily, I wondered if he'd rehearsed them. Gazing at him across the dining table, his green eyes so similar to mine implored me to believe him. He meant his words. My resentment protested against my father's simple disarmament strategy. Dad was giving me the apology I'd craved for four years without a fight.

"I need time," I said grumpily.

"You can have it," he said with a small smile. "Are you going to stop depositing checks in my bank now?"

He'd refused to cash them all. Gosh, he was so stubborn.

"Maybe you can use the money to go on that trip Tara keeps talking about. She said you got a ticket for a concert in New York?"

"I can't, got a new job yesterday." I was still surprised that Colins & Higgins had called me in for the position. It was low pay, hardly glamorous, but with hard work, I'd see a promotion in the next years. It was a start.

"That's good news. Why aren't you happy?"

I reached for the glass of wine he'd placed beside my plate and sipped. "I am happy. It's a step in the right direction for my resume."

Dad nodded in approval. He was pleased.

Sadly, I just felt...hollow, like that night after being with Lucas in the arena bathrooms. I hadn't seen Lucas since the day we tore down the bunkers in the arena. He'd tried talking to me, but my head was so full of Milo, I had no space for anyone else. Since Milo, I hadn't seen anyone. It didn't seem right somehow.

I left Dad's after dinner and got home at around ten o'clock to find Tara at the kitchen table paying August bills.

"How was dinner?" she asked when I opened the fridge.

"It went okay," I said taking out a can of soda. I popped it open and joined her on the table. "We're probably going to have a few more awkward dinners before we can go back to normal, Tara. I'm trying."

"That's all I ask." She signed a check and attached it to the electricity bill.

"How much do you need from me?" I asked. My bank account was moderately healthy, although I wasn't planning vacations just yet.

"Nothing, I still have the check you gave me two weeks ago. Save your money until your new job pays you." Tara glanced at me after a moment before she said quietly. "Are you alright? You've been acting weird lately."

"Weird?" I smiled at her and wrinkled my nose. "What does that mean, Tara?"

"It means you haven't been out partying for almost a month. Your friends have been calling, Tim and Van, they say you didn't show up for Van's birthday party last weekend. Should I be worried?"

"No."

There wasn't much to celebrate these days. My hand slipped into my jeans pocket and I pulled out the worn out paper Milo had given me. I'd caught myself dialing the numbers so many times now. Shaking my head, I looked up to find Tara watching me.

"Okay, something is bothering you." Tara leaned on the table and narrowed her eyes. "What's going on?"

I stared at the number for a moment before I gave in.

"I met someone when I was working at the arena."

"Is it serious?" Tara's eyes lit up with promise of romance. "Do I know him?"

"Kinda," I hesitated before I met her gaze. "It's Milo Kai."

Tara burst out laughing. I thought she was going to fall off her chair. And the tears in her eyes-

"Hey, I'm serious here."

"Yeah, and I'm dating Usher." She pulled napkins from a holder on the table and wiped her eyes. "Liron, you don't have to tell me his name. I'm happy for you either way."

"I am telling you the truth." I glared irritated by her laugh. This was important to me, I needed-, I wanted- _What did I want_? "I need you to listen, because I think I made a mistake."

"A mistake," Tara frowned sobering up. "Are you being serious?"

"Tara-

"Jeez, Milo Kai?" she asked in disbelief. "Why couldn't it be someone from around here, someone realistic?"

"I think I love him." Placing the paper on the table, I ran a hand through my hair and sighed. "Sounds insane but I haven't been able to think about anyone else since he left."

"You're serious. Jeez, Liron," Tara said her voice dripping with sympathy. Yeah, that pity thing she did so well pissed me off. Obviously, she didn't think Milo and I had any hope of making it. "The card you showed me, did you get it from Milo?"

"Kardis and Rob told me to show up for the band's final concert in New York." I shrugged. "It's in two weeks; don't know if I can leave my job so quickly."

"You're right, this is insane."

"Why?"

She grinned at me. "If it were me, I'd leave you right here, Liron."

_How touching_ , I shook my head. "Then I should have gone with Milo when he asked me to go on tour with him."

"He asked you to what now!" Tara's eyes were wider than I'd ever seen them. The pity was gone; she wanted to take my head off. "Milo Kai asked you to go on tour with him and you're sitting here because..."

"I didn't want to leave you in the lurch. We do pay rent and bills here. Jeez, Tara, I live in realityville."

"Well, I'm booting you out of the island, kiddo. Have I taught you nothing?" Tara demanded.

"What are you talking about?"

"I wish Neal would catch on and get serious. We've been dating forever. You meet a rock star, and he asks you to commit; I'm assuming you two did more than talk." Tara glanced at me expectantly and I blushed.

"Ha, that good," she said with wide eyes. "Was it kinky and hot or a slow burn?"

"Burning fire, scotching the sheets hot," I supplied with a wide grin. "I can still feel him on me."

"Okay, you're an idiot." Tara declared sitting back in her seat.

I dropped my head in my hands and groaned. "I don't know what to do. What if it was a fluke...maybe just one of those things that don't work?"

I glanced up to find Tara frowning at me. "That's not the reason you didn't go."

"What?"

"You're feeling obligated to stay here with me, because of the bills and Dad." Tara touched the electric bill. "Honey, I lived alone before you moved in."

"So, I live with you now. We look after each other."

"Yes, we do." Tara reached for my hand and held it tight. "And because we look out for each other, I think we should get you to New York for that concert."

"Tara-

"No, one of us has to follow love and it's definitely not going to be me. My love life is practically next door. So," she squeezed my fingers gently, "go find him."

"What about my job?"

"The concert is on a Friday night. You're off during the weekend. Go, see Milo, if things don't work out, you'll come back on Sunday and go on with your life."

_Go on with my life_ , I thought with a frown. As it was, I was anticipating days in an office, stuck in Colston forever. Milo's parting words filled my head and I suddenly wanted more than a dull office job.

_I wanted Milo and I to work out_.

When I saw Milo again, I didn't want to let him go. I drew my hand away from Tara and reached for the note Milo had given me.

I smiled at Tara and stood up. Walking around the table, I leaned to press a kiss on top of Tara's head before I hurried to my room to make a call.

*~*~*

"Liron," Milo's voice washed over me. My heart hammered in my chest, I was afraid I might be getting a heart attack.

Leaning on my bedroom door, I closed my eyes and managed, "Milo."

"I miss you," Milo said and I smiled. "Why did it take you so long to call me?"

I swallowed the huge lump in my throat. "I wasn't sure you'd want to hear from me. I let you go-

"That doesn't matter," Milo cut in quickly. "I was being ridiculous. You have a life in Colston; of course you had to stay."

"You're not mad?"

"Why would I be?" Milo asked his voice soothing parts of me I hadn't realized were aching. "Do you miss me?"

"Every day since you left, I wish I'd said yes to you."

There was a short silence then Milo cleared his throat. "How is your sister?"

"She's fine, a little upset with me."

"Why?" Milo asked genuinely concerned.

"I told her about you and she thinks I should have left with you." I slid down the door to sit on the floor. "She told me if you'd asked her, she'd have gone in a heartbeat."

Milo laughed, the happy sound wrapping tight strings around my heart. "Why she's a girl after my heart, Liron."

"I thought you might say that." I leaned my head back and confessed. "I got a job yesterday."

Silence followed my quiet confession, and then Milo asked, "So, you're going to be a graphic designer in Colston?" He didn't allow me to answer because he said with a strained voice, "Congratulations."

I didn't want his congratulations. I wanted his protests, the ones I'd heard so easily when we'd been lying in a bed together. The rumors I'd read about filled my thoughts and I choked out.

"Thank you."

"You don't sound happy," Milo said.

"You do," I retaliated.

"Only because it's what you want. Your sister will be happy; you'll help her pay rent and stuff."

"Milo," I didn't feel like talking about the merits of my new job. I'd called to find out if he still cared and this conversation wasn't helping me. "How's your tour?"

"We're in Boston getting ready to go to New York. Fans mauled Rob in the parking lot yesterday. I keep telling him to stop sneaking out for walks without a bodyguard."

"Is he alright?"

"Security helped him, but he lost a shoe and his favorite jacket to very persistent women. Other than that, his ego is pretty good."

I laughed. "What about Kardis, any hangover drama?"

"No, he's been hounding the caterers for fresh fruits and juice since Colston. For some reason the health wagon has hit the Blu Dream tour. I blame you."

"What about you?" I asked shyly. I was dying to know if the rumors were true. Who this secret lover was and why Milo was-

"I miss you, Liron." Milo interrupted my wild imagination. "I wanted to show you Boston, is it possible to convince you to get on a plane right now?"

I closed my eyes. "Milo-

"I know your sense of responsibility is my worst enemy. Would it shock you to know I resent your sister right now?"

A smile tugged at my lips for a second. "I resent your fame right now."

"Why?"

"Because," I said grudgingly. "Are you- I mean- Did you replace me?"

"Replace?" Milo chuckled and my cock hardened in my pants. "Define ' _replace_ ', Liron."

I scowled at the ceiling. What did he mean define ' _replace_ '? "Are you fucking some guy?"

Milo laughed. "Are you jealous?"

I pulled the phone away from my ear and hit the end button. No way was I going to be the idiot-

My cell phone rang, the opening strains of _kaleidoscope_ filling my bedroom. I answered it with a huff.

"What?" I asked.

"There is no one. Do you believe me?"

Hard to believe with all the rumors flying out of that tour, I sighed.

"Liron-," Milo prompted his tone hard to ignore.

"I believe you." The truth in my answer surprised me. I really did believe him.

"What about you?" he demanded severely. His question made me all warm inside, glad to know he cared.

"No one for me too," I told him quickly. I doubted there would be any time soon. Milo had taken over every wet dream I'd had since he'd left and invaded my waking moments too. I missed him in more ways than I could define.

"A cold shower isn't going to do it forever, Liron," Milo said bluntly. "We have to find a solution. I need you. Do you want me to talk to your sister for you-?

"No need to do that," I protested.

"Do you have to work in Colston?" Milo demanded. "I'm pretty sure there are companies you can freelance for. I'm not without means to help you if you decided to join me."

"What do you do when you're not on tour?" I asked before he launched into another offer to solve my problems.

"I have an apartment in New York, I stay there when I'm working but when I have off, I stay at my house in London. I share my time between the two cities."

Country hopping was probably like taking a shower for him. "Where will you be staying after the _Kaleidoscope_ tour?"

Milo fell silent and I felt a sense of foreboding before he answered. "Blu Dream's heading to Europe for another tour."

I was crazy to think this could work. When would we have time to learn about each other? Between the travel, and not seeing each other, if I abandoned my job in Colston to go after him, I'd turn into just another roadie. If he went to Europe, I'd be stuck waiting for him without a job here in Colston.

"Liron, stop thinking right now," he ordered. "I don't want you imagining the worst. This can work if we put a little effort into it."

"Maybe for a night," I told him truthfully. "I can show up for your concert in New York, but then I'll have to come back home."

"Are you losing your courage?" he asked.

"I just don't want to put my hopes up and then-

"Don't think like that," Milo cut in, "if you show up at MSG, I'll make sure you see that, Liron."

I wiped a hand down my face and thought about Tara's advice. _Love_ , I was going to New York to chase after love. I didn't want to be the idiot who ignored an invitation twice and lived with what-ifs.

"I'll be there." I promised him.

*~*~*~*

_Not too many have the courage to leap off the edge to the unknown, Liron_.

Milo's words to me the day he'd left Colston. I walked slowly toward the backstage entrance at the Madison square Garden. The arena was already filling with fans ready for the last of the Blu Dream _Kaleidoscope_ tour concert.

I held the card Rob and Kardis had given me in my sweaty palms. Water rolled in the depths of my stomach, caught on the fine edge between excitement and anxiety; I was making my choice tonight.

Like many of my choices, I'd continually asked a dozen times last night _. What if I was wrong?_ I'd asked that question a dozen times when I'd packed a suitcase unusually large for a three-day weekend.

Handing over the card to the two burly security men guarding the entrance with forbidding expressions, I took in a deep breath. Milo was a few feet away. They took longer to run the card, a jolt of fear went through me at the idea that I might not get to enter. I tried not to shake thinking what a letdown that would be. A soft sigh escaped when the security men smiled at me and waved me in.

A young woman dressed in black slacks, and a t-shirt that read Blu Dream/Kaleidoscope in the back led me to Milo's dressing room. She turned to smile at me.

"You look so nervous," she noted. "He doesn't bite."

I gave a smile thinking she was wrong. He did bite with the right motivation I bit back my laugh. The nerves wouldn't let up. _What if I was wrong?_ I thought again.

I'd talked to Milo every day and night for the past two weeks. Once I'd made that call, I hadn't been able to stop. Sharing every bit of my day with him had seemed imperative, when he'd done the same; a spark had ignited something I didn't understand inside me.

We could talk about minute issues like me walking through a Walmart and getting lost in the auto parts section. He'd tricked me into confessing that I did also get lost in the fabric softener section when buying detergent, there were some heady scents in those bottles. Then there was the night we'd discussed my playlist and I realized he'd taken my ipod with him. In a moment of weakness, lulled by his voice in my ear, I'd told him of my slight obsession with Blu Dream's music. His delighted chuckle played through my head every time I was alone.

We'd talked about his pen-collecting hobby. He'd told me it had started when Blu Dream first made it. Traveling so much, seeing so many different cities, he'd collected pens as a way to mark each city. When I'd asked him if he took a pen to mark Colston, he laughed.

"I forgot because you distracted me, Liron."

Last night, Milo had told me about his ex-boyfriend, Declan. Milo had paid off the entire Blu Dream crew never to talk about him. I'd asked why, he'd said it was because Declan had betrayed him.

"I loved him, and he threw it in my face." Milo confessed quietly. Irrational anger had filled me; I'd gotten this crazy urge to find this Declan and punch him bloody.

"I understand your hesitation to be with me, Liron," Milo had said last night. "Love comes easy, but trust is harder, I know."

He'd gotten me thinking last night after we ended our call.

_Did I hesitate because of trust_?

No. Fear was my reason, I was afraid to believe a man like Milo Kai could look at me with love. Crazy thinking when I'd been in his arms, felt him inside me, watched him touch me and I him with burning passion that had scorched us both.

_Love_ , I'd thought with a sigh. I'd never experienced it. Not with a man, the way I dreamed it should be.

With family, yes, I understood that intense sense of loyalty to kin for Tara and even my father but never romantic love.

The young woman knocked on Milo's dressing room. I stared at his name printed carefully on the paper stuck on his door. She opened the door and led me into a bright lounge with white couches, armchairs and glass stools. There was a desert landscape painted on the walls, garnished with white lilies and green leaves. Milo sat at a white desk that faced the wall scribbling in his notebook.

He glanced up and looked in the mirror a frown on his face at the intrusion. My heart skipped. When he saw me, his face brightened with excitement.

Yeah, maybe I did know what love was.

"Liron," he exclaimed dropping his pen on the table and standing up so quickly he almost tipped his chair over.

I grinned and before the door closed behind the woman who'd escorted me in, he wrapped me in a tight embrace. My face buried in his shoulder, eyes closed as I took in his sweet delicious scent.

I knew love, I thought, as a powerful clawing need filled me. It was this physical urge to see his face every waking hour of my days and feeling half-dead at the idea of never seeing him again.

Milo squeezed me against his pristine black shirt and I held on to his shoulders when he turned us with an ecstatic moan.

"You came," he said his fingers combing through my hair as he leaned to press a kiss on my jaw. "I didn't think you'd make it."

"I promised." My heart flipped over when he laughed in delight.

"I'm so happy to see you." He hugged me again and I held on feeling starved for him.

Every cell in my body danced in joy, rejoicing at the sound of his laugh, the same voice I loved to hear sing and talk to me. This had to be love, and I would be a fool to let go.

I pulled back to look into his eyes. The small separation was too much and in the next second, I'd closed our distance, my lips fused against his, my fists clumped in his hair as we kissed. I moaned when his arms ran down my back, my fingers tightened in his hair. We kissed hungrily, barely pausing to breathe. I knew in that moment that I would never let him go. I kissed him with desperation, and need, taking what I'd missed for two months, giving him back just as much. I held on to him, the spark inside me growing into a wild fire that consumed us forever.

*~*~*~*

I know you smile at that word ' _forever_ ', but I don't have another word to describe my life with Milo. The past four years have made me believe in forever.

I know now that my choice was the right one. The night I met Milo in New York, we didn't make any promises. There wasn't any need for them. I needed to be with him, he needed to be with me. Therefore, I stayed in New York, and when Blu Dream headed to Europe, I went with them. I stayed by Milo's side, getting to know each other and we fell deep in love. Milo is the love of my life.

I'd imagine you wonder if I ever returned to Colston city. I was born there, lived there, fell in love there, and of course my family still remains in Colston, so yes, I do go back to visit. Quite a lot now that I think about it.

Tara and Neal live together now, she moved into his apartment two months after I left Colston. We always end up at Dad's house for the holidays. It's always a treat to watch Milo working with my sister in the kitchen to make Christmas dinner. The first time Milo helped Tara baste the turkey, she'd almost hyperventilated. We tease her about it every holiday now.

As for my career, I work with Blu Dream's marketing team creating album covers and tour themes with Milo, Kardis and Rob. When I'm not working with Blu Dream, I do freelance work for other artists and institutions. I get to work from home, or whatever city I find myself in, traveling with Milo is an adventure, which brings me back to us.

Seems like all I ever wanted in life was to wake up next to Milo and have him kiss me as if we weren't ever going to see each other again. He doesn't collect pens anymore. Instead, he writes me postcards. Each city we go to, I find one tucked in my diary signed by Milo, I've amassed quite a lot of them in the past four years. I have boxes of them in the attic in our London home, each card too precious for me to throw away.

I jumped off the ledge to the unknown, and Milo caught me tight, enveloping me with his heart and everything we are today. Turning on our bed, smiling at the sight of Milo deep asleep, I brush hair out of his eyes and lean to kiss him. I'm happy because he caught me and gave me the happy life we live together.

*~*~*~*

About the Author

Suilan Lee loves writing and reading. When she's not doing those two things; she lives and works on a farm. She helps run the family business where she's constantly wrestling broken pipes, town gossip and family drama. She loves watching drama, great food, and a delicious hot cup of masala tea.

Connect with her on her:

Twitter: @LeeSuilan

Facebook: Suilan Lee

Blog: Suilan Lee Blog

Other Books by Suilan Lee

The Precious Teahouse

Kiss me to Spring Time

Bovian Image

Love (Ai)

That Dog Young Jae

Silver Ice

Find them on Smashwords.

