 
Bouncey the Elf and Friends

Bedtime Stories

Brian Leo Lee

Published by Brian Leo Lee

Smashwords Edition

Copyright 2012 Brian Leo Lee

Cover and Illustrations by Brian Leo Lee

Copyright 2012

The moral right of the author has been asserted.

All rights reserved

Contents

Bouncey the Elf Meets a Wizard

Henry the Caravan and the Troublesome Family

Bouncey the Elf and the Goblin Goldmine

Skipper the Kangaroo has a Lucky Day

Eddy the Lifeboat and the Seal Island Rescue.

Peta the Plane and the Lost Little Girl.

Swerlie-Wherlie and Bulfrey the Bull

Bouncey the Elf

Meets a Wizard

It was a lovely sunny day, so Bouncey the Elf decided to go for a walk. He went to find his backpack and put in a bottle of pop and a pack of biscuits.

He then set off into the forest with a bouncy walk, along the banks of the River of Dreams, singing a song to himself.

He was just wandered around when he saw a blue and red bird he had never seen before. It seemed very tame.

Suddenly, Bouncey heard a grunting sound in the bushes. It was a wild boar.

Bouncey was not scared, just curious, so he began to follow it.

The wild boar went here, there and everywhere. This way and that way, up tracks Bouncey had never seen before. He was really enjoying himself - until he realised he was lost.

'Oh no!' he said in a worried voice. 'It always happens to me.'

He was standing still, wondering what to do next, when he heard a strange noise - a whooshing - sound.

He looked up the path, and saw a big hill and what appeared to be the entrance of a cave. So he crept slowly towards it.

Bending low, he crept towards a big rock resting by a big tree and keeping as quiet as he could, looked into the cave and saw the strangest person.

He was tall, dressed in long dark robes with a tall pointed hat, patterned with stars. He had a long, straggling grey beard, pointed nose and crooked fingers, which held a wand over a bubbling cauldron.

'This must be the Wizard's cave,' Bouncey said excitedly to himself.

Kneeling behind the rock opposite to the entrance to the cave, he watched curiously as the Wizard threw something into the cauldron.

The Wizard then started to wave his wand again and - whoosh - a big puff of smoke came from the cauldron.

The sparks from the fire flew out all over the cave - some of them even found their way to the entrance, not far from where Bouncey was hiding.

He moved away hurriedly to avoid some of them.

The Wizard noticed his movement. 'Who's there?' he called out sharply, looking round with glaring eyes.

Then he pointed towards Bouncey with a bony finger. 'Come here,' he said in a stern voice.

Bouncey crept forward, shivering with fright.

'Who are you?' The Wizard asked loudly.

'I - I - I'm Bouncey the Elf,' stuttered poor Bouncey.

'Why are you spying on me,' demanded the Wizard. 'I usually turn spies into frogs or toads.'

'I wasn't spying - honest,' protested Bouncy in a trembling voice. 'I just came upon you by accident and was curious - please don't turn me into a frog.'

'Go and sit over there. I'll deal with you in a minute,' ordered the Wizard.

He pointed to a stool in the far corner of the cave.

Bouncey went and sat down, wishing all the time he had acted more sensibly and not played chasing games with a wild boar.

The Wizard waved his wand over the cauldron again - there was another - whoosh \- smoke and more sparks.

'U'm - that's finished now,' said the Wizard, taking the cauldron off the fire.

He turned to Bouncey. 'I won't be long. Don't touch anything.'

There was a little door at the back of the cave and the Wizard unlocked it and went through to the next room.

Bouncey looked around the cave. It was full of jars - stacked on stone shelves carved into the rock. Inside the jars were things like bat's wings and snake's eyes - lots of the most horrible things you can imagine.

He was too scared to move.

The Wizard soon came back with a little jug in his hand.

He dipped it into the bubbling cauldron, took a sip - and immediately disappeared.

Bouncey couldn't believe his eyes

There was a chuckle and with a snap of fingers, the Wizard reappeared.

'That's marvellous!' cried Bouncey, forgetting his terror.

'Oh! Just one of my little spells,' said the Wizard, a little more kindly.

'I'm going to a Wizard's party and this is what I'll be taking.'

'Is it far away?' asked Bouncey.

'It will take me a good week travelling on my magic carpet' answered the Wizard.

Bouncey's eyes opened even wider at the other mention of a magic carpet

By now the Wizard seemed quite friendly and he asked Bouncey if he would like something to eat.

He left the little jug on the table, went out to the room and came back with a delicious-looking piece of chocolate cake and a glass of ginger beer.

'Here you are,' said the Wizard. 'It's been quite nice to have some company. It gets a little lonely here sometimes,' he said sadly.

Then the Wizard smiled and said. 'I don't really change people into frogs and toads you know.'

Bouncey gave a nervous little laugh and then relaxed and enjoyed his cake and ginger beer.

'I'd better be off now,' said the Wizard, looking at his pet owl, which had just given two loud hoots.

He took out a key and locked the little door at the back of the cave. Then he poured the now cooled contents of the cauldron into a large green jar and jammed in the stopper.

The Wizard slowly walked to the entrance of the cave and snapped his fingers three times.

The carpet that Bouncey was standing on suddenly started to move.'

'Wow,' he cried, jumping off it quickly.

The magic carpet moved towards the Wizard, who sat down on it, keeping a tight hold of his magic brew.

'See you, Bouncey,' shouted the Wizard, as he waved goodbye and the magic carpet started to fly out of the cave.

'Oh,' called the Wizard. 'Don't worry about my cat, Loona. She can look after herself whilst I'm away.'

Bouncey waved back as the magic carpet went higher and higher until it was over the treetops and out of sight.

Loona, a big black cat had been half hidden by the warm fire and unnoticed until now by Bouncey, stretched out her front paws and stared at Bouncey with big shiny green eyes, before slowly going to the cave entrance and with a flick of her tail, disappeared under a nearby bush.

Bouncey was just about to go himself, when he noticed the little jug on the table.

I'm sure the Wizard won't mind me taking a little drop, thought Bouncey.

So he emptied his water bottle outside the cave and then went back and poured some of the magic mixture into it.

Then he walked out into the sunshine with a bouncy step and tried to find his way home.

After wandering around for a time, he was lucky enough to find a path he knew and was soon back at the Elf Village.

He was trying to creep through the palace gates when two guards noticed him.

'Come with us, Bouncey - the Elf King wants to see you.'

So Bouncey went to see the Elf King, who said sternly. 'You have been on one of your walks again without telling anyone - haven't you?'

'Well, your Majesty, I found the Wizard's cave.' announced Bouncey proudly.

'What do you mean?' exclaimed the Elf King. 'Nobody can go in there without coming out as a frog or toad.'

'It was alright, really,' said Bouncey. He then told the Elf King everything what had happened to him that day

Then he took out his water bottle. Unfortunately, he hadn't screwed the top on tightly enough. It had spilled out and there was only one drop left in the bottle.

Bouncey took a sip and disappeared

The Elf King was amazed. 'Where are you?' The Elf King asked.

'I'm here your Majesty,' replied Bouncey from across the room.

'Where?' asked the Elf King again, looking around the room and not seeing Bouncey.

'Here!' Laughed Bouncey who was standing behind the Elf King.

'Stop playing around, Bouncey!' ordered the Elf King in an angry voice.

So Bouncey clicked his fingers twice and re-appeared.

He then had to tell the Elf King there was no more magic mixture left.

'Oh dear, what fun I could have had with that,' sighed the Elf King.

'Never mind Bouncey, as a reward, you can go to the royal kitchens and ask for whatever you wish.'

So Bouncey rushed down to the royal kitchens and asked for:

\- a huge fresh cream chocolate éclair - a drink of fizzy apple juice and then a giant chocolate ice - cream cornet.

Bouncey, when he's in the forest, often looks up, hoping to catch a glimpse of the magic flying carpet and the friendly Wizard

Perhaps, one day, he will

***

Henry the Caravan

and the Troublesome Family

Henry the Caravan was waiting for the new seasons visitors. After having been repaired during the winter and receiving a new coat of paint, he was really sparkling at the start of the summer season.

'I wonder what sort of family I'll get for this first visit.' he asked himself. He waited and waited. Cars came by... but didn't stop.

'Oh dear! I hope I haven't been forgotten.' he thought sadly.

Suddenly, a car screeched to a halt by his front gate. A Mum, Dad and three children got out of the car. The children began jumping about shouting, at each other.

'Come on kids,' shouted Dad. 'Help with the luggage.'

'Oh! - You do it Dad,' said the eldest - a boy who was about ten years old. He ran up to the gate, kicked it open, nearly knocking it off its hinges.

The two little girls ran after him, screaming. 'Oh! Look at those lovely flowers, Mum.'

They then began to pull up several flowers growing alongside the path - of course they weren't there to be picked up.

Henry didn't know what to think. He was so shocked by their behaviour.

The boy went up to the caravan door and yanked the handle, much too hard. The door did not move. He then kicked the door, hard.

'Ouch!' exclaimed Henry to himself. 'That hurt!'

'Hey! Dad! The door's locked,' shouted the boy.

'Try the handle again, you silly boy,' snapped Dad.

The boy turned the handle more carefully this time and the door opened.

'Kids!' moaned Dad. He struggled with three large suitcases. Then, staggering up the steps and through the door, he dropped the suitcases, heavily onto the caravan floor.

'Cripes!' thought Henry. 'These people don't seem to bother about anybody's feelings.'

Then Mum came in with some more luggage and the two girls followed her into the caravan.

'Now.' Mum said. 'Where can we put those flowers? 'Let me see...'

She began to open the cupboards and in one of them found a lovely vase.

'Ooh! Look at this!' she exclaimed. Suddenly, it slipped through her clumsy fingers and smashed into lots of little pieces on the floor.

'Bother!' Mum said, as she kicked the bits under the table.

'Oh No! My best vase and she's not even bothering to pick up the pieces,' muttered Henry to himself.

Meanwhile the sisters had discovered the seats and had begun to jump up and down on them --- up and down --- up and down.

'If they don't stop they're going to give me a headache!' groaned Henry.

'Dad! Dad! Look at this, Dad. It's like being on a tambourine!' shouted the youngest girl excitedly.

'A trampoline - you silly girl,' replied Dad. 'And stop jumping on there - it's a seat.'

'Oh Dad!' grumbled the girls but they sat down quietly on the seat.

'Well now, we'd better get something to eat,' said Mum. She got out some biscuits and then started to make bread and peanut - butter sandwiches.

The children grabbed the biscuits first. 'I don't like these, Mum, complained one of the sisters and she threw them onto the floor.

Aaaagh! thought Henry. What messy kids and no manners at all.

Dad was thirsty and wanted a drink, so he asked the boy to fill the kettle.

He gave a big groan. 'Why me, Dad?'

'Because I asked you too, now hurry up!' shouted Dad.

Going to the sink, the boy turned the tap full on and water splashed out of the kettle, spraying everywhere, especially onto the carpet, which had just been cleaned for the summer season.

'Oh! Look at my carpet.' cried Henry to himself. No one bothered to mop it up.

Then Mum made some tea. Dad said he wanted lots of sugar in his cup.

So Mum picked up the bag of sugar but it slipped out of her hands and burst on the floor. Sugar spread all over, mixing with the water on the carpet.

Henry could hardly look.

'I suppose I will have to clean that up,' groaned Mum. She got a cloth and dabbed the carpet and seemed to make an even bigger mess than before.

Henry gasped. 'Oh! What a....! What a family! I must do something to stop them staying here.'

Meanwhile the sisters were jumping around again on the seats. 'We want to go to bed,' they chanted. They wanted to try out their new sleeping bags.

So Dad started to change the seats into beds. He had no sooner got the cushions arranged when the girls immediately started jumping up and down on them.

Then the two sisters began to have a pillow fight. Before you knew it, they had knocked an ornament off a table and then a lovely framed photograph of the campsite, fell off the wall.

What on earth are they going to do next! I can't imagine, thought Henry.

Soon the whole family started to get tired and after a lot of shouting, fussing and squabbling, the beds were made up and they all fell asleep.

Henry decided to stay awake, to try to think of a plan to get rid of this troublesome family. By the next morning he was ready to act.

The family awoke next morning, sleepy and grumpy. Dad wanted a cup of tea in bed. So Mum went to the sink to fill the kettle but there was no water coming from the tap.

Henry wouldn't let any water pass through it.

'Water's off,' said Mum.

'Oh bother!' grumbled Dad.

'Now then, lad, you will have to go and get some water from the tap outside. Will you get the water carrier, please.'

The boy pulled faces and moaned that he didn't want to and why couldn't his sisters do it.

Dad shouted at him in a great, booming voice, which sent him scuttling to the door.

The boy tried to open the door, but the door wouldn't open.

Henry was making sure the door would not open.

The boy pulled and pulled - then Dad tried as well, but it simply wouldn't open.

'Alright!' said Dad, 'Let's forget about the tea for now - we'll have something to eat.'

So Mum went to the cupboard where she'd put some food the night before but the cupboard door was shut fast.

Henry wouldn't let the cupboard door open either.

The girls started chanting. 'We're hungry! We're hungry!'

'Be quiet,' shouted Dad at the top of his voice. The children quietened down - they could tell he was quite annoyed.

'Well,' Dad said in a strained voice, trying to keep calm. 'We'd better open the window and shout for help.'

He tried to open the window - it wouldn't budge.

Henry wouldn't let it, of course.

Dad was starting to get a little worried - everything was stuck and there was no food or water to be had.

Even the games cupboard, to keep the children busy, wouldn't open.

'There's something weird about this caravan,' said Dad.

The family all hurriedly got dressed and sorted the beds back into seats again. Then they sat down to think of what to do next.

Henry then made the seat cushions slide onto the floor and the whole family fell down in a heap, all arguing about who had done it.

Just then the family saw the campsite Warden going by.

They caught his attention by banging on the window.

The campsite Warden came up to the window. 'Yes,' he mouthed.

Dad kept banging on the window and looking frantic.

The campsite Warden thought he had better investigate. He went around to the front door of Henry the Caravan and walked inside.

Dad looked at the campsite Warden in amazement.

'We've been stuck in here for ages,' he spluttered. 'We've got no water coming from the taps, the door wouldn't open and neither would the windows or cupboards.

'Look!' complained Dad.

He pulled at the games cupboard door with all his might - it opened easily, because Henry let it.

Dad ended up on the floor covered in games of snakes and ladders, draughts and ludo.

Looking around, the camp Warden noticed the wet carpet, covered in sugar, pieces of broken vase, bits of biscuit and broken ornaments and the damaged picture frame.

Guiltily, Dad looked at the campsite Warden and said, 'There's something weird about this caravan.'

'Well, I'm not staying in a filthy caravan like this,' interrupted Mum, not thinking that it was she and her family who had made the mess. 'Come on', she said. 'We're leaving.'

The whole family packed up their belongings and in no time at all, had driven away with loud grumblings from the grown-ups, moans from the children and the enormous revving of the car engine.

Henry heaved an enormous sigh of relief. In no time at all, the campsite Warden and his wife had cleaned him up and sorted him out.

He was sparkling again, waiting for a nice family to stay with him.

I'm sure he got one, don't you.

***

Bouncey the Elf

and the Goblin Goldmine

One day, Bouncey the Elf, decided to go for a walk in the forest. Packing his backpack with a bottle of pop and some of his favourite biscuits, he was soon ready to go on his trip.

Bouncey set off by crossing the bridge over the River of Dreams. He had only been in the forest for a few minutes, when he heard the sound of something moving through the bushes.

He stood still and watched. A baby deer came into view. The fawn stopped and with big, round startled eyes, looked around. Then it ran off down a little path not far from where Bouncy stood.

After waiting for a few minutes, Bouncey decided to follow the baby deer. He trotted down the path for some time - first turning to the right - then to the left, until he came to a small stream.

As Bouncy watched, the little fawn had a drink, then it jumped over the small stream and went to what he thought was a big bush.

'Oh look,' Bouncy thought to himself, realizing it wasn't a bush. What he thought were branches were actually the giant antlers of a daddy deer.

The animals were both very pleased to see each other and rubbed noses. Then, without a sound, they disappeared into the forest.

Bouncey looked around and realized he had no idea where he was. He was lost.

So Bouncey began to look for the right path. Suddenly, he heard a noise - strange, funny sounds. Feeling afraid, Bouncey knew right away what it was.

'Oh! No! not Goblins!' he said to himself in alarm.

Hiding behind a small bush, he saw two strangely dressed Goblins go by.

They wore funny looking hats, with candles fixed to them and they each carried a sack and a hammer.

The Goblins then went behind a big tree.

So, Bouncey being Bouncey, crept after them and saw a large cave behind the tree.

Suddenly, there was a flash of light - the two Goblins were lighting the candles on each of their helmets.

He watched carefully as they disappeared into the cave

When the candlelight was very faint, Bouncey crept to the cave entrance. There were little stone steps cut into the floor.

Very quietly Bouncey set off, down a long dark tunnel carved into the rock.

Crash! Thud! The sound of banging echoed all through the tunnel.

Bouncey looked through the gloom of the tunnel and could see a light in the distance. He could just see the shadowy forms of the Goblins. They had lit another candle and had stuck it in a crack in the tunnel wall.

He crept nearer, they were banging the wall of the tunnel with their hammers and big lumps of rock fell to the floor of the cave. The rock was shiny and it glittered and gleamed in the candlelight, a bright yellow colour. Bouncey could hardly believe his eyes.

It must be gold, he thought gleefully.

As he watched, the Goblins knocked more of the shining yellow rock onto the floor of the cave.

When they had a big pile, they stopped and filled their two sacks. Then, turning round, they started back the way they had come.

Fortunately, just in time, Bouncey quickly found a little hollow in the wall of the tunnel, to squeeze into.

He held his breath, as the Goblins staggered by him, with their heavy loads, muttering to each other all the time, their low voices slowly fading in the distance.

He was very glad to see them go. Goblins are really greedy, mean and nasty creatures. They can smell the best gold deep underground and they always wanted to keep it for themselves.

Now Bouncey knew that the Elf King would like some of the glistening golden rocks.

So when all seemed clear, Bouncey went over to the pile of gold rock, which he could only just see in the gloom of the now small candle flickering in the tunnel wall.

He put two big rocks of gold into his backpack and quietly and slowly made his way back to the entrance of the cave and climbed out.

Carefully, looking and listening for any sign of the Goblins, Bouncey made quite sure that they had gone.

Spotting a little track he hadn't seen before, he followed it through the forest until he came to the path that the little baby deer had used earlier that day.

Before long he had reached the stream and then the place where he had first seen the little fawn.

'Goody! I know where I am now,' he said to himself.

Bouncy happily skipped and bounced his way back to the Elf Village, even if he had a much heavier backpack.

When he arrived at the Elf Village gates, the guards told him to go straight to the Elf Kings' Palace.

So Bouncey went into the Palace and found the Elf King waiting for him.

'Hello, Bouncey' said the Elf King cheerfully. 'What have you been up to today?'

Bouncey smiled but didn't say a word. Still smiling he took off his backpack and turned it upside down in front of the Elf King.

Out fell his bottle of pop and a packet of biscuits.

The Elf King started to laugh - but then... the two large gleaming gold rocks dropped onto the floor - with a loud thud! The Elf King was astonished and very, pleased.

He knew that Goblin gold is much more precious than any other gold - it is so much brighter

'We can make some wonderful things with this.' said the Elf King with a big smile. 'Like necklaces, rings and maybe golden plates. Well done, Bouncey well done.'

Bouncey had then to tell the Elf King, all over again, his exciting adventure with the Goblins.

As a reward, the Elf King allowed Bouncey to go down to the royal kitchens, to choose whatever he fancied.

Bouncey was soon enjoying a meal of a chocolate milk–shake, a honey and peanut-butter sandwich and then, a huge strawberry ice - cream cornet, covered with chocolate syrup.

A few days later, the Elf King sent him a present of a very special golden goblet, which had been made from the Goblin gold.

Whenever Bouncey drank from it, he thought of his adventure in the forest, which had led him to the Goblin's gold.

For some reason though, he never could find that Goblin goldmine again. Perhaps he needed the little fawn to show him the way!

***

Skipper the Kangaroo

has a Lucky Day

It was the hottest summer Skipper could ever remember. It was so hot that the grass and the leaves on the few trees around were shrivelling up. Skipper's Mum and Dad were very worried; the water was drying up too

On this particular day, Skipper was really thirsty. 'I need a drink,' he gasped.

All of his little kangaroo friends were saying the same. The grown up kangaroos had gone off on their own to search for food and Skipper and his friends were lying on the ground among some big rocks

Skipper decided to move further under the largest rock he was resting by. 'There's some shadow here,' cried Skipper. 'It should be cooler here.'

He used his strong hind legs to dig into the shadow but as he dug, the ground suddenly gave way and he found himself falling down into a hole.

'Skipper!' 'Skipper!' shouted his friends as they tumbled down on top of him.

'Ouch! Be careful,' cried Skipper as he squeezed out from underneath them.

They all looked around. It seemed to be a cave but not the sort of cave made by under-ground streams. There were some marks on the walls of the cave.

'It's been made by humans,' shouted Skipper.

At one end of the cave they could see a small tunnel, so he decided to explore it. It did not take long. He soon came back to his friends.

'Come on. It's a lot better in here,' he told them.

A cool draught of air was blowing through the cave. Gratefully, Skipper and his friends crawled along a gloomy passage.

'This is great,' they cried, not scared at all. After crawling along for some time, the tunnel suddenly opened into another big cave.

Small holes had been cut into the roof of the cave and bright sunlight shone through them, so that the young kangaroos could see quite well.

Skipper and his friends stretched out on the floor of the cave to have a good rest.

As Skipper lay down, he hit something hard with his head. 'What's that? ' he said.

Turning his head, he saw something shiny on the floor. It did not look like an ordinary stone, because it was smooth and when Skipper let the sunlight shining through the hole in the roof fall onto it, it shone with all kinds of different colours.

'It must be a special kind of stone,' he said. 'I'll take it back with me, when we go home,'

He then settled down for a good rest. After a while, they all began to get restless and fidgety.

'I think we'd better get back now otherwise everyone will be worrying about us,' Skipper said to his friends.

He picked up his 'special stone' and they all made their way back through the tunnel. When they reached the hole through which they had fallen, Skipper and his friends, with a lot of scrambling, slipping and sliding, managed to climb out.

There were a lot of worried-looking mummy and daddy kangaroos wandering about.

'Where have you been?' asked Skipper's Dad. 'Your Mum and I have been very worried about you.'

'Sorry, but look what I've found,'

Skipper's Dad looked at the 'special stone' carefully for a while and then stopped feeling cross. 'Where did you get this?' he asked, quietly.

'Inside that big hole I fell into,' replied Skipper.

Looking more closely at the 'stone', Skipper's Dad said, 'I think you have found an opal.'

'An opal! What's that?' asked Skipper excitedly.

His dad explained that it was what humans called a 'precious' stone and they say that it is very valuable.

'I think I've got an idea,' continued Dad, as he called all the other kangaroos together and told them they were all going to visit the human farm in the next valley.

'We need food and water,' he explained to them.

Now on this farm lived an old man who was alone, except for a few chickens and a small herd of cows. He was kind to all animals - even vultures and the crocodiles, which often swam up the river, when it flooded in the spring.

The kangaroos did not know that many of the old man's cows had died in the very hot weather and he was now thinking of leaving the farm and going to town to find other work.

Skipper's Dad did not want to take food and water without giving anything in return - and that's where his idea came in.

The herd of kangaroos were not afraid at all as the old man came out to greet them.'

'Well, what's all this?' asked the old man cheerily.'

We've found this', replied Skipper's Dad, holding out the opal in his big paw.

The old man looked at the opal and his eyes nearly popped out of his head.

'Goodness me.' he said, 'That's the largest opal I've ever seen.'

Is that so,' replied Skipper's Dad. 'We know that it is valuable to humans and perhaps it could be valuable to us too.'

Skipper's Dad then told the old man about their problem of not finding enough food and water in this very hot weather.

Maybe, in exchange for the opal, they could have what they wanted. That is, food and water, while they all waited until the rains came again, bringing bubbling streams and fresh, green grass.

The old man agreed at once. Now he would be able to keep his farm and buy a new, larger herd of cows.

Skipper and all the kangaroos followed the old man to his windmill, which brought up water from deep underground.

As the windmill began to turn, there was a gurgling sound and water began to fill a trough. Soon everyone had drunk as much water as they all wanted and they all felt much better.

The old man then took a pitchfork, went into the barn and brought out a large bundle of hay.

There's plenty more when you need it,' he said kindly.

The kangaroos munched away happily and Skipper thought it was the best hay he had ever tasted.'

'You can rest in the barn if you like.' the old man said, adding, 'You may stay as long as you like.'

So Skipper and the rest of the kangaroos went to lie under a huge veranda, next to the barn. The veranda had been built to give shade to the cows in very hot weather.

Skipper and his friends stayed happily by the barn until the rains came again.

He was glad that he had been able to help, though did not realise just how much he had been able to help the old man too.

***

Eddy the Lifeboat

and the

Seal Island Rescue

Eddy the Lifeboat slid down the ramp of the lifeboat station, and crashed into the sea with a great big - sssplash!

'There's been a call for help,' explained the Captain to Eddy.

'A small plane has crashed on the cliffs above Sandy Bay at Seal Island. We have to try and rescue the crew.'

'OK! - Let's get going, as fast as we can then,' answered Eddy. He put on full-speed ahead as they raced towards Seal Island.

They had been going about half an hour when the Captain shouted.

'I say! Eddy! There's something wrong with your compass. The needle's spinning round and round.'

The compass was very important. It told Eddy which way to go.

'That is a big problem,' Eddy said in a worried voice.

After another five minutes the Captain ordered Eddy to stop the engine.

'We'll be going round and round in circles if we keep going on like this' said the Captain.

'Not only that, if we're not careful, we'll have to send out for a rescue party for ourselves.'

While they were bobbing up and down on the waves wondering what to do, a shrill voice suddenly piped up.

'Hello Eddy!'

Eddy looked down and what a surprise he got, there was Sal the Seal in the water.

'Why have you stopped?' enquired Sal curiously. 'You're usually dashing round trying to save people.'

Eddy explained what had happened. Seal Island was a long way and without the compass they were lost.

Sal the Seal was a very clever and helpful seal. She had an idea.

'If I swim in front of you, can you follow me?' asked Sal.

'I'm sure I can,' replied Eddy.

With the help of the Captain and a sailor who was on deck to make sure they didn't go too near, Eddy the Lifeboat chugged steadily on, following Sal the Seal as she swam slowly ahead.

They were not travelling at their usual hectic speed but at least they were going the right way.

About an hour later they saw the mountains of Seal Island and the high cliffs that plunged into the sea.

'Nearly there!' shouted Eddy above the sound of the engine and the splashing waves.

'Yes, I can smell the seaweed on the rocks,' Sal the Seal shouted back.

'I can hear my friends too. I think I'll join them now.'

'Fine,' said Eddy, 'And thank you Sal, we'll be all right now.'

'Any time,' answered Sal the Seal.' Just give me a shout if you need me on the way back.'

Sal the Seal then swam to join her friends basking in the sunshine on the rocks at the foot of the cliffs.

Eddy slowly circled around the rocks, which could be so dangerous. Many ships had been wrecked there, so he his way slowly to the far side of the island where the plane had come down.

When he got there, Eddy saw a small beach with a high cliff rising steeply above it At the top of the cliff they could see the crashed plane. Next to it, two figures were waving frantically.

'Now,' said the Captain, 'Let's see how near the shore we can get.'

So Eddy went as close to the beach as he dared. The sea was shallow enough for two sailors to jump down with a big rope and wade out to the shore. They then tied the rope tightly to a huge rock, so that Eddy would not float away.

One sailor, who was also an experienced climber, took hold of a much thinner rope and started to climb up the cliff, which fortunately was not as difficult to climb as it looked.

When he got to the top, he shouted down that the two airmen weren't badly injured and would be able to get down with some help.

So the sailor fastened ropes to both men in turn and soon they were lowered to the bottom of the cliff.

He then clambered down himself, knocking some loose pebbles down, which bounced onto the beach below with a loud clatter amongst the rocks, just missing the other waiting men.

The three quickly crossed the little beach and waded through the sea and arrived safe and sound on the deck of Eddy the Lifeboat.

The two pale and shaken airmen were taken below deck, given clean dry clothes and hot chocolate to drink.

'Well done,' said the Captain to the sailor who had rescued the two airmen.

The big rope was then untied from the rock and when the sailor was back onboard, Eddy was able to slowly back away from the beach.

'Well,' said the Captain, 'I think we'll need Sal the Seal to help us again. The compass is still not working properly.'

He sounded Eddy's hooter - twice. Blaaaahhh! Blaaaahhh!

Sal the Seal soon was splashing alongside Eddy the Lifeboat.

'Can you guide us again Sal,' asked Eddy. 'We've got to get back to the Lifeboat Station and my compass is still broken.'

'Certainly,' said Sal the Seal with a playful look in her eyes. 'Just don't go too fast and run me over, will you?'

'OK! Sal, I'll be careful,' replied Eddy with a big smile.

'Carefully now! Slow ahead! Eddy,' ordered the Captain.

Sal knew exactly which way to go and she led Eddy and his crew slowly and steadily across the sea towards the Lifeboat Station.

It took a long time.

Although Sal the Seal was a good swimmer, she rarely swam such long distances and she had to keep stopping for a rest. Every time she stopped, the cook threw defrosted pieces of fish into the water for Sal to eat.

After several long hours, they arrived back at the Lifeboat Station.

Everyone at the Lifeboat Station cheered Sal the Seal, after they had heard the part she had played, in the rescue.

The two airmen from the plane were whisked away to hospital for a check up.

Sal the Seal stayed in the water and rested for some time, very pleased to be the centre of attraction.

Eventually she dived under the sea and turned for home.

'Well done Eddy,' congratulated the Captain. 'I'm glad you've got friends like Sal the Seal.'

'I'm glad too,' replied Eddy. 'It would have looked a bit silly having another Lifeboat rescue me!'

***

Peta the Plane

and the Lost Little Girl

Peta the Plane was on the runway and the Pilot was giving him his last polish before take off. The smoother his wings, the faster he could fly.

'I'm ready to go,' said Peta to the Pilot.

'Hang on Peta - I'll just go and see where we are going for our next trip,' replied the Pilot.

As the pilot walked towards the control tower, Peta started up the engine. It was running nicely when the Pilot came rushing out.

'Peta! Peta!' he shouted excitedly.

'A little girl has been very silly and has taken her inflatable boat out alone. Now she is lost. Her Mum and Dad are very worried.'

'We've been asked to go and see if we can find her.' added the Pilot.

'Let's go then,' cried Peta.

Taking off as quickly as he could, Peta, zoomed into the air. He flew over the beach and towards Seal Island.

Going at top speed, it wasn't long before the Island came into view.

Peta zoomed down to the beach.

It was high tide, so there was no sand to be seen. On top of the high cliffs, a few sheep wandered about and screeching seagulls circled in the air.

There was no sign of the girl on the bare cliff tops or beyond, where only short, scrubby grass grew.

We'll have to try the mountains,' said the Pilot.

'OK,' replied Peta.

Peta zoomed down towards the mountains. They soon reached the highest mountain and circled around it.

'Can you get any lower Peta?' asked the Pilot.

'I'll try,' said Peta. 'These mountains are very high and if I go too low the winds might blow me onto them.'

'Well, do your best.'

Peta flew nearer and nearer the tall mountain peaks.

They circled around three peaks, as low as they dared but there was no sign of the girl. All they saw were some wild horses on the lower slopes and what looked like a big, brown bear among some trees.

'Oh!' exclaimed Peta, 'I can't imagine the little girl getting up here. Can you?'

'You never know,' replied the Pilot. 'If she was exploring she might not have realised how far she had gone. We'd better try the lake area now.'

So Peta flew down to the bottom of the mountains. There was the big lake - very deep - very dark and looking very, very mysterious. In the middle of the lake was a small island and as Peta flew nearer to it, the Pilot called out excitedly;

'Look! Peta look! There's something down there.'

Peta flew lower and skimmed over the lake towards the island. Sure enough, as they went nearer, they could see some sort of shelter made with branches. Just in front of the shelter, they could see a little white face and a hand waving. A small Inflatable boat lay nearby.

Peta circled lower and lower. They could see the girl now. She was only nine years old they had been told and she looked as though she was hurt.

She was lying down, resting on one arm, waving weakly.

'I bet she's starving hungry,' said Peta. 'What are we going to do?'

'We've got a problem haven't we?' replied the Pilot. 'You've got wheels so you can't land on the lake. But I have an idea. First we'll drop some emergency supplies.'

The Pilot took the emergency pack out. It contained first aid equipment, food and water. When it was dropped from a plane a little parachute opened out, floating the package down safely.

The pilot tied a little note to the package telling the girl not to worry and they would be back soon.

'Fly down the far side of the Island so I can drop the package,' ordered the Pilot.

Peta zoomed down. He went in as low as he dared.

The Pilot then leaned out of the cockpit window and dropped the package, pulling a string as he did so. The parachute opened out and fortunately landed a few metres from the girl.

They saw her crawl to the package and give a wave. The Pilot waved back.

'Let's get back to the airport as quickly as we can,' instructed the Pilot.

Peta flew off at top speed. As he did so, the Pilot radioed the airport and gave certain instructions to the control tower.

'What did you say?' asked Peta.

'You'll soon find out,' replied the Pilot with a smile.

As soon as they got close to the airport, Peta noticed quite a lot of activity. There was a lorry parked next to where he was going to land and certain objects lay on the ground next to the it.

'What's going on?' asked Peta curiously.

'We're going to try to put floats on your wheels so you can land in the water,' replied the Pilot.

Peta was very excited. Not long after he landed, workmen brought some pieces of wood along with some plastic tubing and began fixing them to his wheels. They were like skis to start with - the plastic tubing would keep him float.

The floats were strapped and screwed on, just high enough for Peta to use his wheels as well.

Soon Peta was ready and took off for Seal Island at top speed. Once more the island came into view.

'Now, remember you're not used to landing on water,' the Pilot reminded Peta.

Peta waggled his wings, he knew he had to be very careful and he circled once, then went towards one end of the lake and touched down on the water.

Splash!

Water sprayed out all over Peta.

'It might stop my engine!' cried Peta in an alarmed voice.

'Just carry on Peta. It'll be alright,' replied the Pilot calmly.

Peta turned the engine speed down and they slowly floated to the edge of the island where the girl's camp was. The girl was lying in her shelter. They could hear her faint cries of, 'Help! Over here!'

The Pilot took out a rope and attached it to Peta's wheel-strut and waded through the shallow water to tie the other end to a nearby tree. Then he went quickly up to the girl.

'Oh! I'm so glad you've come,' said the girl in a weak little voice.

The girl had hurt her leg, so the Pilot picked her up very carefully.

'Oh! Oh! OH! OOOHHH!' cried the little girl.

'I'm sorry' said the Pilot, 'but I've got to get you to the plane.'

The little girl was very brave as the Pilot waded through the water, opened Peta's door and placed her carefully in the back seat, before buckling her in securely. He then untied the rope attached to the tree and the wheel and got into the cabin.

'Now be careful taking off,' warned the Pilot to Peta. 'Remember you're not a real sea plane.'

Peta started the engine and began the longest run he could make - from one end of the lake to the other.

Spray splashed everywhere - even over the windscreen. The Pilot could hardly see.

Peta almost panicked. 'The engine's going to flood! The engine's going to flood!' he wailed.

'Just keep going,' shouted the Pilot over the noise of the whirring engine and the crashing spray. 'You'll be OK.'

The end of the lake came into view and Peta just managed to take off, water dripping onto the trees below.

They heard the little girl moaning quietly, so Peta went at top speed and they soon arrived back at the airport, where a large crowd was waiting.

The ambulance had already arrived and the ambulance men placed the little girl carefully onto a stretcher.

The little girl's mum and Dad were also waiting by the Control Tower.

They were going to the hospital too of course but they wanted to thank Peta and the Pilot first.

With it's siren blaring and lights flashing the ambulance rushed the little girl away to hospital.

'Well done Peta,' said the Pilot a little while later, as he patted his wing.

'Just glad I could help,' replied Peta with a huge smile, as everyone clapped.

***

Bouncey the Elf

and

The Magic Box

1

The rooks were making such a racket that Bouncey the elf stopped halfway across the River of Dreams Bridge to see what all the fuss was about.

Away to his left, the dark Wild Boar forest could be seen over the bushes that grew along the riverbank.

Between the bushes and the forest was an open area in which a giant oak tree towered. It was the shade of the oak tree branches that had stopped other plants, apart from the long grass, from growing under them.

The rooks were diving to and fro around the oak tree, cawing like mad. The noise was deafening, there were at least twenty or thirty of them and Bouncey at first couldn't see what had made them so angry.

Then he saw a big brown owl crouched next to the bottom of a huge tree trunk.

_It must be injured_ _, thought Bouncey. Then he noticed that one wing was sticking out in a funny way._

It must be broken. I must go and help the poor bird.

The rooks fear owls because they sometimes steal their chicks and so they were trying to frighten this owl away.

Bouncey ran back off the bridge and went along the riverbank as fast as he could. The bushes were so thick he sometimes had to crawl underneath them. A small elf like him couldn't always push his way through, so he was glad when he spotted a gap large enough for him to pass through.

Bouncey suddenly stopped and looked in surprise – someone else was already there, bending over the hurt owl.

The person must have heard Bouncey come through the bushes and turned round to look at him.

' _Hi Bouncey, fancy meeting you here,' said Trixie the Pixie with a big smile._

' _Thank goodness you came, I could use some help in fixing Tawney's hurt wing.'_

Bouncey nodded, getting over his surprise at seeing Trixie and said, 'What a lucky bird Tawney is, having you nearby to help him.'

' _Well actually, I heard his cries of help. Not really heard. I mean you know we Pixies have a special power that makes us able to sort of talk and listen to animals with our minds.'_

Bouncey nodded. Trixie had once helped save the Piccs who lived deep underground, from the horrible Goblins, with her special powers.

' _Now Bouncey, hold Tawney for me,' Trixie said, 'While I put some of my special healing ointment on his poorly wing. Fortunately I don't think it's broken.'_

Bouncey knelt down and carefully picked up Tawney.

Then looking in the bag that she always carried, Trixie took out a long ribbon and gently tied it round Tawney so that the injured wing couldn't move.

' _There that should do it,' she said, putting her tube of ointment back in the bag._

Tawney the owl nodded his head.

' _He's telling me he is feeling much better already,' Trixie told Bouncey._

' _Great,' replied Bouncey. 'I can hear you much better now as well. Those rowdy rooks have gone back to their nests. They must know that Tawney can't harm their chicks now.'_

Then, before Bouncey could ask Trixie any more questions she interrupted him.

' _I say, Bouncey,' Trixie said in a worried voice._

' _Tawney has told me that the Wizard had asked him to check the Goblin Goldmine. Some elves have been forced to work down the goldmine for the Goblins and were now prisoners there. The Wizard is worried that more elves might be captured.'_

' _Gosh,' said an amazed Bouncey. 'What can we do?'_

' _Well.' Trixie looked down at Tawney and stroked his head, 'Tawney said that there are lots of Goblins outside the Goldmine and some of them were talking into little black boxes which answered back.'_

' _What kind of magic is that,' interrupted Bouncey. 'Boxes don't talk.'_

' _I don't know either,' replied Trixie but we must tell the Wizard as quickly as possible. I can fly a bit but not very far. So that's no good.' (Pixies have a set of small wings on their back)._

' _The quickest way would be by boat down the River of Dreams to that big bend and then to climb up to the Wizard's cave,' Bouncey said. Then he added, 'I hope he is in though, when we get there.'_

' _I know he is. I can hear in my mind. Luna his cat is thinking that it is time for her master, the Wizard, to get her some milk.'_

' _I say Trixie, that's fantastic. I wish I could do that,' Bouncey said wistfully._

' _Don't be silly, Bouncey. You know only we Pixies can do it,' Trixie said with a smile._

' _Now let's find a boat. We have to get to the Wizard's cave as fast as possible.'_

As Bouncey put a hand down to push himself to his feet, he felt something half buried in the long grass.

' _Just a minute Trixie, I've found something in the grass,' and he pulled up two small thin black boxes, tangled up in some twine. They were made of some kind of shiny hard material._

' _I say, Trixie, what do you think they are for and where did they come from?'_

Before Trixie could say anything, Tawney began to shake his head.

' _I don't believe it,' Trixie called out._

' _Tawney says that he got them caught in his talons when he got hurt near the Goblin goldmine. A horrid Goblin had thrown a stone at him and it hit his wing and he fell down right on top the nasty Goblin. Even though he was hurt, he managed to fly away but those funny boxes were tangled round his legs. They must have belonged to the Goblins. He had got this far but his wing was hurting so much he had to stop for a rest. That's when the horrid rooks came.'_

' _I think we should take them to the Wizard. He might know what they are for,' Bouncey said._

' _Come on, let's go down to the river.'_

### 2

Because Trixie was smaller than Bouncey, she led the way towards the River of Dreams.

Bouncey had his hands full carrying Tawney, who was quite a big owl but not too heavy.

Making sure to find big enough gaps in the bushes along the riverbank to enable Bouncey and Tawney to get through easily and without too many scratches to his hands, Trixie eventually found a path down to the river.

' _It's our lucky day, Bouncey,' she cried. 'There's a rowing boat tied up to a tree just down here.'_

In just a few minutes, Bouncey was pulling on the oars as Trixie, with Tawney on her lap, watched the riverbanks glide by.

' _Well, at least we're on our way and it's nice to have a seat,' puffed Bouncey, pulling on one oar, to steer round a big white swan and her three little cygnets._

The River of Dreams went by the edge of Fawn Wood, a long straight, slow moving, part of the river that made rowing easy.

When Bouncey's arms started to ache, he decided to have a rest from rowing and let the boat drift down the middle of the river by itself.

He looked over to Trixie, who was gently stroking Tawney's feathers and smiled.

' _I say Trixie, can I have a look at one of those black boxes. I was wondering what they were for.'_

Trixie nodded and reached down to her bag next to her feet and took one out.

' _Here, catch,' and she gently threw it to Bouncey._

He caught it easily and saw that it was about the size of his favourite choc bar but a bit thinner.

It seemed to be in two parts, a bit like a closed book but however much he tried, he couldn't open it.

' _Look out, Bouncey,' Trixie suddenly shouted out. 'We're going to hit the riverbank.'_

Bouncey jerked up and quickly shoved the box into his jerkin pocket and grabbed hold of one of the oars.

He was just in time and managed to push the boat back into the middle of the river.

' _Sorry Trixie, I'll keep on rowing from now on.'_

' _You can do it, Bouncey. It's not far now,' Trixie said, urging him on._

Bouncey started to row again but he was soon sweating like mad. It was harder than he had thought, even though he was rowing downriver with the current.

At last they came to the big bend in the river and Trixie, sitting at the back of the boat, was of course facing forwards and saw it first.

' _You made it, Bouncey. You made it. I said you would,' Trixie said happily and grinned at him._

Bouncey who was still pulling the oars but much more slowly, turned his head and had a quick look at the riverbank.

A large weeping willow tree, its long branches hanging over the edge of the river like a big curtain, shaded a small pebble beach. It was just below the path, which led to the Wizards cave.

' _Pull in Bouncey, pull in. This is just the right place,' Trixie called out excitedly._

Bouncey gave a big sigh of relief and slowly guided the rowing boat towards the pebble beach.

As the boat touched the pebbles, Bouncey took the oars off their pegs (these kept the oars in the right place on the sides of the boat) and stood up, just as Trixie, wanting to waste no time, jumped onto the pebbles after making sure that Tawney was safe in her hands.

Unfortunately, as she jumped out of the boat, she kicked it back into the river.

Bouncey having just stood up with the oars in his hands, suddenly felt the boat jerk backwards and he dropped the oars to keep his balance.

They fell into the river and floated away as Bouncey himself fell to the bottom of the rowing boat, which now gently bobbed along after the oars, downriver.

' _Bouncey,' screamed Trixie. 'Are you all right?'_

By the time he sat up, Bouncey was in the middle of the river, floating downstream.

' _I'm okay but I have no oars. I dropped them in the river,' he shouted back._

' _You go on to the Wizard's cave. I'll catch up with you as soon as I can get to the riverbank._

Trixie watched as the boat drifted round the bend of the river and Bouncey was out of sight.

' _I'll see you there then,' she shouted back, hoping that Bouncey would hear her._

Trixie turned and climbed up to the path leading to the Wizard's cave.

' _I do hope Bouncey's all right,' she whispered to Tawney._

### 3

Bouncey held tightly to each side of the rowing boat as it bobbed up and down in the River of Dreams.

After the big bend, the river had started to flow more quickly and he could see a lot more rocks sticking out of the water.

_Oh oh,_ _he thought,_ _not rapids, I haven't got my oars to guide me through them._

(Rapids are parts of a river, which flows down the steep parts of a valley. This makes the river-water flow faster).

Bouncey knew that if rocks get in your way when you are going through a rapid in a boat, that meant trouble, especially if you have no oars or a paddle.

Speeding past Wild Boar forest, he held on tight as the boat rocked to and fro and bumped into one, two and then a third rock.

' _Ugh,' cried Bouncey, as a big wave splashed over him and then the rowing boat began to spin round and round until he felt dizzy._

Crash!

The boat stopped and Bouncey fell flat onto his face in the bottom of the boat.

' _Ouch, that hurt,' he cried out and tried to sit up._

With a sudden jerk, the boat was racing down the river again but this time it was heading downriver, backwards.

Bouncey grabbed hold of the seat and pulled himself up and sat down on it, making sure to hold each side of the boat.

By twisting his neck he saw that the river was about to go round another bend.

Bouncey gave a gasp of horror.

' _Oh no!'_

He suddenly knew where he was.

A bit further down the River of Dreams was the Goblin Goldmine and he could do nothing about it.

The rowing boat was taking him into great danger.

_I know,_ _he thought._ _If I lie down in the bottom of the boat, the Goblins might not see me._

Poor Bouncey was out of luck. A short time later, two Goblins out fishing not far from the Goldmine, saw the boat floating down the river. One of them flicked his fishing rod and his hook stuck in the side of boat.

' _Look what I've caught,' he called to the other Goblin. 'Give me a hand to pull it in.'_

Bouncey heard the Goblins and froze in fear.

What will they do to me, _he thought to himself and started to tremble._

The two Goblins were too busy pulling the boat out of the river to notice Bouncey. Then they saw him.

' _My,' said one to the other. 'What kind of fish do you think this is then?'_

' _Well, Hairleg, I reckon that there is an Elfisheel. He looks right slippery to me,' he said as he grabbed hold of Bouncey._

' _Right on, Lobface, that's what I thought it was too. Let's take this Elfisheel to the Chief Goblin, the Great Beekle. We might get a gold grot for him.'_

Bouncey tried to get loose but Hairleg was too strong and he was dragged to the Chief Goblin's hut.

### 4

Trixie stared at the big hill. It looked so steep. Her arms were aching from carrying Tawney. He had done his best by keeping very still as she made her way up to the Wizard's cave.

Seeing a flat shaped rock just by the path, Trixie sat down with a big sigh.

' _Aah, that's better. I think we must be nearly there Tawney.'_

She had seen some smoke, higher up the hill.

Taking a big breath, Trixie got to her feet and carefully held Tawney close to her body as she set off for the Wizard's cave.

The cave looked dark and gloomy but as she got nearer, Trixie saw a small fire just inside it. The flames flickered and danced as a plume of smoke gently wafted out into the open air.

In the glow of the flames, she saw someone crouched near a black cauldron that hung on a chain over the fire.

The figure turned round.

' _Who's there? Come here where I can see you better,' a big voice boomed out._

Then in a more friendly tone, said, 'Trixie, Trixie is that really you, come in, come in.'

It was the Wizard and he was happy to see her.

He was tall and his big, black pointed hat, made him seem even taller. His long silvery hair hung down over his shoulders and his long grey beard, fell down to his chest.

His long dark robe reached right down to his feet.

('It keeps me warm,' he later told Trixie. 'Caves can get quite cold you know').

Then the Wizard noticed Tawney in her arms.

' _My goodness, what's happened to Tawney. Tell me he's not badly hurt?' he asked anxiously._

At the back of the cave were several alcoves, some hidden by drawn curtains. The nearest one was open and the Wizard had put a long sofa next to a big table covered with his magic spell books.

The cave wall had been carved out, to make shelves filled with jars of horrible looking things, like snake eyes, toad's tongues and wriggling green slime worms.

Hanging down from the shelves, were clumps of different coloured leaves and seeds that he used to make his magic spells.

' _Put poor Tawney down on the sofa, Trixie, whilst I get my glasses and the Wizard went over to the table, picking up a small pair of glasses that he clipped onto his nose._

' _Now let me see what's wrong with Tawney. It's his wing you said, Trixie?'_

She nodded, and then told the Wizard of how Tawney got injured by the horrible Goblins.

' _Well, well,' the Wizard said when she had finished telling him._

' _You go over to where Luna is warming herself by the fire and have a drink of pop and some biscuits from that shelf while I help Tawney.'_

So Trixie said thank you and went over to the fire where Luna, the Wizard's big black cat was sleepily dreaming of the mice she would chase later on.

As Trixie sat down on a rocking chair by the fire with a beaker of pop and a biscuit, Loona turned and looked with her big green eyes.

Hello Trixie.

The magic power of the Pixies made Loona's greeting clear in Trixie's head and she thought back –

Hi Luna, having a nice rest as usual?

Luna just purred and went back to chasing mice in her dreams.

In a few moments, the gentle rocking of the chair made Trixie's eyes close. The climb up the hill to the Wizard's cave was harder than she had thought, especially having to carry Tawney as well. She felt really sleepy now next to the warm fire and before long, she had dozed off.

The Wizard looked over at Trixie and smiled. He quietly tut–tutted to himself as he removed the ribbon Trixie had fastened around Tawney's wing.

After examining it very carefully, the Wizard went over to the shelves by the table and took down a small jar of a magical cream.

' _This will make you better in no time at all,' he whispered to Tawney as he twisted the lid off the jar. 'You will be as good as new tomorrow.'_

The smell was horrible.

Tawney jerked his head back in surprise, as the Wizard gently rubbed some of the magical purple cream on the poorly wing.

Even sleepy Trixie across the cave was affected. Her nose twitched and she reached up to scratch it.

' _Now then Tawney,' the Wizard said quietly, as he tied the ribbon back round the wing, 'You have a good nights sleep after you have something to eat. I've left you a bowl of water as well, under the table. I don't think Loona will bother you there, okay.'_

Tawney understood and nodded his head. So the Wizard gently took him to the table, where he had already put a wooden perch underneath for whenever Tawney stayed in the cave.

Trixie had woken up and heard what the Wizard had said.

' _That's fantastic,' she called across the cave. 'You have much better ointment than I have.'_

' _That's because I'm a Wizard. That's what we do. Our spells are really magical you know.'_

Trixie nodded her head and she fell asleep again next to the nice warm fire and Loona who was still dreaming of trying to catch some mice.

### 5

Bouncey was taken from the River of Dreams and made to walk by the two Goblins, Hairleg and Lobface, to the village where the Goblin guards lived.

It was next to the goldmine, which could be seen halfway up a big hill. A tall wooden fence was built in front of the entrance to make sure no one could escape.

Outside the fence Bouncey could see a long line of cages covered with thatch roofs. They were all empty.

The two Goblins laughed. 'I see Chief Beekle has sent all the elves down to the playground,' said Lobface and Hairleg laughed again.

Bouncey knew they were telling fibs. The elves were really working very hard, deep underground.

As they got nearer, Bouncey saw the big gates open and a small truck rolled out along a set of rails towards a massive hole in the ground, from which clouds of black smoke puffed out. (In the caves far below, the Goblins melted the shiny ore rocks into gold).

Then he saw them. Four elves were pushing the truck. They all had chains around their ankles so that they couldn't run away.

A horrible Goblin waving a big stick, was shouting at them to push harder. As the truck reached the hole in the ground, one of the elves shuffled round to the side of it and pulled a lever.

The side of the truck opened and a pile of rocks some of them shiny, clattered and rattled down into the dark, smoky hole.

The empty truck was then pushed back through the gates by the poor elves. They were slaves of the Goblins.

' _We have to rescue them,' Bouncey said to himself._

' _Come on you, the show's over,' said Lobface to Bouncey in a nasty voice. 'The chief is waiting for you.'_

Bouncey wondered how the Chief Goblin knew he was coming.

The Chief Goblin was in the biggest hut in the village. He was sitting in a large chair at the end of a big room.

A fire in the corner filled it with smoke. The chimney had been blocked for ages but the Goblins seemed not to mind.

Next to the Chief Goblin was a wooden stand on which a large cage made of gold, had been placed. It was full of big, black beetles.

As Bouncey was thrown to the floor in front of the Chief Goblin who was dressed in a golden robe and wore a golden band on his head, he saw him open the cage door and grab a handful of black beetles. He then began to eat them, one at a time.

The crack, crunch of the beetles as they were chewed, could be heard all over the room.

The Chief Goblin spat out a few wing cases and said in a high-pitched voice, 'Well done, Lobface and Hairleg. A new elf slave is always welcome.'

He then pulled out of his robe, a black box and flicked his hand. The black box to Bouncey's surprise, opened and the Chief Goblin spoke into it.

' _Wigbank, this is Chief Beekle. Bring me two gold grots, at once.'_

Lobface and Hairleg grinned and winked at each other as an old, small Goblin, dressed in black and with a feather quill pen perched on one of his big ears, shuffled in.

Their smiles got even bigger when he gave them a gold grot each.

' _Now take this elf thing out of my sight and put him to work tomorrow,' said the Chief Goblin in a screechy voice, as he reached for another handful of big, black beetles._

' _Move elf, or you're for it,' Lobface said in his nasty voice._

_So that's how he knew about me,_ _thought Bouncey._ It _was those black boxes_ _and he pressed a hand to the one in his pocket._

Hairleg and Lobface pulled Bouncey along through the village, then up the hill to the Goldmine.

They stopped next to one of the empty cages and Lobface took a key from his waist pouch and unlocked the cage door.

Hairleg opened it and pushed Bouncey so hard he fell onto a filthy straw covered floor.

' _Ooo, it stinks,' cried Bouncey._

' _Ha, ha, did you see that, Lobface. Our little friend doesn't like it in there.'_

' _He'll soon get used to it. The chickens that lived in it before never complained did they. Come on Hairleg, we've got a gold grot each to spend,' Lobface said, as he locked the cage._

' _Oh, I forgot about that, Lobface. Do you think the shop has got any ratburgers left?'_

Bouncey sat up and wiped his face, now covered in bits of sticky, muddy straw, as the two horrible Goblins hurried away.

A sudden commotion made Bouncey get up and look through the cage bars.

The big gate into the Goldmine was opening and a line of elves, each one in leg chains, were coming out.

Goblin guards on each side of the elves were shouting and poking them with long sticks, trying to make them walk more quickly.

The elves looked so tired. Most of them were in torn, dirty clothes and a lot were limping. Some were holding other elves who couldn't walk on their own.

A Goblin guard in front opened each cage door and six elves were pushed or prodded into them until all ten cages were full.

Bouncey's cage was at the end and the last elf in the line was shoved in with him.

As the cage door clanged shut, the ragged elf fell to the straw covered floor.

' _Water, water,' he whispered in a croaky voice. 'I need a drink.'_

Bouncey looked round the cage and then saw a clay bottle in a corner.

' _Yes, that's it. Pass it to me quick,' croaked the voice._

Picking up the clay bottle, Bouncey passed it over to the elf who snatched it from him and began to drink great big gulps of water.

' _Aah, that's better,' said the elf in a more normal voice._

' _Who are you? I haven't seen you before.'_

' _My name is Bouncey I'm from near Fawn Wood and the Goblins captured me not long ago. I lost my boat oars, so I couldn't get away from them.'_

The other elf sat down with a big groan. 'My ankles are sore with these chains and I'm stiff all over and my back aches like mad. Those horrible Goblins make you work with picks and shovels all day long, or you have to push heavy trucks full of gold rocks. That's hard work as well.'

' _I know? I saw one before I was taken to the Chief Goblin,' Bouncey said._

' _Oooo stay away from him, he eats beetles and things and he hates us elves.'_

Then the other elf said, 'Sorry, I didn't say my name. It's Sundew.'

Before Bouncey could ask any more questions, he heard a big shout.

' _Grub up. If you don't put your hands out, you won't get any.'_

' _Quick,' said Sundew._

' _Put your hands through the cage bars._

Bouncey suddenly realized he was hungry, so he stood by Sundew, who also held the clay water bottle.

A few minutes later, Bouncey saw a cart being pulled by a Goblin guard and two others who were giving out the food.

He recognized the voices – Lobface and Hairleg.

' _Hey, look who's here, cried Lobface. I bet he wants a chicken wrap. What a pity, we've just run out of them.'_

Hairleg grinned and passed over to Bouncey a chunk of bread with a slice of cheese on it and a small apple with maggots crawling out of it.

He saw Bouncey's face and laughed, 'If you don't like it, I'll change it for a gold grot.'

Lobface giggled as he filled Sundew's clay water bottle and then threw his food onto the dirty cage floor.

' _Come on, Hairleg. Let's go and get a nice drink of hot chocolate. The smell round here is getting up my nose._

' _Just a minute, Lobface, I'd better let snooty Wigbank in the stores know we've finished feeding our guests.'_

Hairleg sniggered as he pulled his black box out of his pocket, flicked his hand to open it and spoke to him.

They and the creaking cart went back to the Goblin village, the sounds of their laughing getting fainter and fainter.

The food looked horrible but Bouncey and Sundew were so hungry they ate it all, maggots included.

' _They do that every night,' Sundew said, but you kind of get used to it. Now if you don't mind Bouncey, I must lie down and get some sleep.'_

Bouncey sat down and wondered what he could do to escape from these horrible goblins. Then he remembered the black boxes and what he had just seen the Goblin called Hairleg do.

Making sure that no Goblin was around, Bouncey took out the black box he had put in his jerkin pocket. Holding the black box in his hand, he flicked his hand like Hairleg had done.

It worked. The box opened and he could see a green button inside it.

' _Hello,' he said quietly, not wanting to wake poor Sundew._

Nothing happened.

He thought for a minute and then whispered to himself, 'Yes, I bet that's it,' and pressed the green button.

A red light came on and he could hear a hissing noise.

' _Hello, hello, this is Bouncey. Trixie, can you hear me. Press the green button. Press the green button.'_

### 6

Chirp ..... Chirp .... Chirp ....Chirp.

_Trixie turned over by the fire and thought,_ _It's not time to get up is it._

Chirp .... Chirp .... Chirp .... Chirp.

She sat up suddenly. The funny noise was coming from her bag.

_How had a bird got into it?_ _she thought._ _I'm sure I closed it properly._

Strange, my magic powers should have told me if a little bird had got trapped in my bag.

As Trixie looked inside her bag, it came again, that funny noise.

Chirp .... Chirp .... Chirp.... Chirp.

' _Oh, it's that black box that Tawney the Owl accidently carried back from the Goblin Goldmine.'_

She then remembered that Bouncey had the other one.

As Trixie took it out of her bag, she heard a voice saying hello.

It was such a surprise, Trixie dropped the black box and when it hit the hard floor of the cave, it opened.

Trixie quickly picked it up and said, 'Bouncey, is that really you?'

Nothing happened, then Bouncey's voice said, 'Press the green button. Press the green button.'

Looking down at the black box, Trixie saw the green button and pressed it. A red light came on.

' _Bouncey, Bouncey, it's me, Trixie. Can you hear me?'_

' _Wow,' Bouncey's voice came back, 'These are magic boxes.'_

' _Never mind that, where are you?'_

Bouncey told her about being captured by the nasty Goblins and that he had been put into a locked cage with another elf. 'There are lots of other elves locked in more cages as well.'

' _They're being made to work as slaves in the goldmine by the horrible Goblins,' he explained. 'The Wizard was right. Can he help rescue them?'_

' _I'll tell the Wizard right away what's happened and use the magic box to let you know if he can do something to rescue you and the other elves.'_

' _Thanks, Trixie. I'd better go before a Goblin guard comes round, Bye.'_

' _Bye, Bouncey.'_

Trixie rubbed her sleepy eyes and went to find the Wizard who must have gone outside for something.

The Wizard was just coming back to the cave and he asked if Trixie was all right. 'You look so worried,' he said.

' _It's Bouncey and the other elves. The horrible Goblins have locked them in cages. We have to rescue them.'_

The Wizard, nodded. 'Yes, we must. Let me think for a minute.'

He snapped his fingers. 'It might work', he said to himself.

' _I need to make a magic mixture,' he told Trixie and hurried away to get an armful of jars from his shelf of special magic ingredients._

The wizard carried them to the cauldron already half full of water, which was hanging over the fire and placed them on the floor.

He unscrewed the jar lids and took out; four mud-swamp frog legs, six ox-lizard eyes,

a handful of yellow earwigs and two wriggling green slime worms.

Trixie watched as the Wizard went back to the wall shelves and snapped off a long flower stem that was covered with bright orange seed-pods and brought it over to the cauldron.

The Wizard then put on a pair of thin gloves and very carefully popped each seed-pod and dropped the sweet smelling seeds into the cauldron.

To Trixie's surprise, the Wizard then threw the flower stem now full of empty pods, into the fire, as well as the gloves he was wearing.

The Wizard turned to Trixie and said, 'You have to be very careful with these seeds. You must not touch them with your bare hands, ever.'

Then he said, 'Now we shall have to wait until all these ingredients have boiled down to a paste. It will take some time, so would you like some hot chocolate I made earlier. I

have a special jug that keeps it hot for a long time.

' _Ooo, yes please,' Trixie said._

Her smile was even bigger when the Wizard gave her a big slice of chocolate cake as well.

She must have dropped off to sleep again because the Wizard had taken out the magic mixture from the big cauldron and put it into a great big glass bottle.

It was nearly as tall as Trixie herself and she could see that it was full of an orangey coloured paste. It looked a bit like funny coloured ice-cream.

Making sure that the cork top of the giant bottle was fixed tight, the Wizard took out his magic wand and chanted a magic spell.

' _Abra, Cadra, Badra._

Butwel, Duzel, Crikadel.

Orabel, Gidiel, Zumiel.

Swizel, Swuzel, Swazel.

Abra, Cadra, Badra.'

WHOOSH!

A bright light flashed from the wand to the giant bottle and it began to glow and shake.

Yellow sparks suddenly fluttered and zoomed all round the cave and Loona the cat jumped up and ran outside screeching and meowing.

The bright light went out and an amazed Trixie, forgetting for the moment what she had just seen, saw that the magic mixture inside the giant bottle was now a pile of orange powder.

The Wizard put his wand back inside his robe and said, 'We must wear masks until I put this magic potion into a special bag. All right, Trixie.'

Trixie nodded and took the small facemask, which the Wizard had taken from his robe and put it on as he did.

' _This potion is for the Goblins and will, I hope, help us rescue Bouncey and the other elves,' he told Trixie, 'But I'm not sure how to help the elves get back home. They live near Mirror Lake don't they?'_

Trixie nodded, then said excitedly. 'I think I know someone who could help them get home.'

Then she stopped 'Oh, I'm not sure how to get in touch with her.'

' _Think about it Trixie,' the Wizard said as he staggered away to the back of the cave, holding the giant bottle tightly to his chest._

' _Let me know if you remember something.'_

Trixie went over to the rocking chair after putting a piece of wood on the fire. A flurry of fur jumping on her lap startled her.

Trixie laughed. 'Oh, it's you Loona. Got over your fright with all those lights now?'

' _Hello, is anyone..... Oh, there you are Trixie.'_

The voice from outside the cave stopped.

Trixie looked round and saw her friend, Aerie the Faery standing there.

' _Aerie,'_

Trixie jumped up and poor Loona had to move quickly or fall onto the floor.

With a annoyed meow, Loona ran to the other side of the fire and lay down.

' _I'm so glad you came, Aerie. I was wondering how I could get in touch with you. Bouncey and lots of other elves are being kept as slaves by the horrible Goblins. They are locked up in cages.'_

' _Oh my goodness, how terrible. They must be rescued,' Aerie said in an urgent voice._

' _That's what the Wizard is going to do but he doesn't know how to get the other elves, who live near Mirror Lake, back home safely,' Trixie said, excitedly._

' _Could you help. I thought about you when you saved the swans, which were locked up in cages at Mirror Lake.'_

Aerie nodded and smiled and then looked around for the Wizard.

Trixie saw her look round and said, 'The Wizard is sorting some magical stuff out.'

Just then he came from the back of the cave.

' _Aerie, Aerie, how nice to see you but it's not a good time ........'_

' _It's all right,' interrupted Aerie. 'Trixie has told me all about the horrible Goblins and I can help you to get the elves who live near Mirror Lake, safely home.'_

' _That's wonderful,' said the Wizard. 'We have to be at the Goblin village when the Goblin guards get their instructions from the Chief Goblin, first thing in the morning.'_

' _In that case I had better set off for Mirror Lake right now,' said Aerie._

' _Yes, yes,' the Wizard said, 'I had better get moving as well.'_

' _Trixie, you make sure you have a good nights rest. You have to be up very early tomorrow.'_

' _All right, I'll do that. Bye Aerie, see you tomorrow.'_

' _Bye,' Aerie nodded to them both and flew off down the hill towards Mirror Lake._

### 7

The sun had just peeped over the hills as Aerie stood by the edge of Mirror Lake. She opened her arms wide and called out in a loud voice.

' _Athan, Keeper of the Unicorns, it is I Aerie. We need your help to save the elves kept as slaves by the Goblins. The Wizard is going to rescue them this morning at their goldmine. Can you bring the elves safely back home with the help of your Unicorns?'_

Suddenly, the surface of Mirror Lake misted over. Then the mist became a thick cloud.

' _Hello Aerie, this is Athan speaking. The Goblins have been not been good, so I will help you. Follow the cloud ......._ follow the cloud _..... f_ ollow the cl.......

Athan had gone.

Aerie looked around and then noticed that the sun had gone behind the cloud.

The cloud was coming over the lake, straight towards her but it didn't stop. It kept going further away from where she was standing.

' _It must be going to the Goblin Goldmine,' cried Aerie and with a flutter of her wings, flew after it._

### 8

It was nearly sunrise and Trixie had just finished a quick breakfast in the gloomy light of the oil lamps, when the Wizard came through from the back of the cave.

He was walking very carefully, holding a large ball-shaped parcel made from the dried skin of a wombat, with a loop of string hanging down from it.

Trixie noticed that it was covered with what looked like sticking plasters.

The Wizard saw her looking at the funny looking parcel.

' _Those are to stop the magic potion from spilling out. Very dangerous, very dangerous,' he said quietly._

' _Now then Tawney are you awake?' he asked, going over to the table._

Tawney the Owl peeped out from under it. His poorly wing had been made better with the special cream.

' _You know what to do when we reach the Goblin Goldmine?'_

Tawney nodded his head.

' _Right then, come on, let's get started.'_

The Wizard led the way to the cave entrance and waited for Tawney who could only walk slowly on his talons.

He had already put the funny looking parcel on top of a big rock near the cave and held out an arm for Tawney to flap up to.

Now the Wizard could hold out the loop of string on the parcel for Tawney to grip tight in his talons.

' _Remember the signal Tawney, not a moment too soon, all right.'_

Tawney nodded his head.

' _Well then, it's time. Trixie are you ready?'_

' _Yes,' she called out. 'I spoke to Bouncey with the magic box. He knows we're coming and what to do.'_

' _Good. Now go, Tawney, go,' cried the Wizard._

And Tawney opened his big wings and flew off with a ball-shaped parcel hanging down from his feet.

Quickly, the Wizard rushed over to his magic carpet where Trixie was already sitting waiting for him.

' _Away we go. Bye, take care of the cave for me,' the Wizard called out as he waved to Loona and the magic carpet zoomed up into the sky towards the morning sunrise._

### 9

Chief Goblin Beekle was furious. He stood in front of his hut. The morning parade was late.

The Goblin guards were still not in the lines that each morning he inspected before they went to take the elves up to the goldmine.

He turned to Wigbank, who was holding a small cage of black beetles next to him and held out a hand.

Wigbank opened the cage just long enough for Chief Goblin Beekle to grab a handful of them.

' _Guards this is not good enufff,' the Chief Goblin spluttered, as he crunched on a beetle._

He was about to say something more, when a guard shouted out.

' _Look, look up there.'_

Everyone looked up and saw the Wizard and Trixie sitting on the flying magic carpet.

Before the guards could do anything, the Wizard pointed his wand and a bright blue light flashed down and hit the cage in Wigbank's hand.

It exploded with a loud bang and bits of black beetles went everywhere.

Chief Goblin Beekle screamed in alarm thinking he had been hurt but something else in the sky caught his eye and he stood silent as Tawney the Owl zoomed down and dropped the funny looking parcel right at his feet.

It burst open and a cloud of orange powder wafted all over Chief Beekle and the guards. They couldn't help breathe in some of the magical powder and in moments they began to change.

Their noses became fatter and longer, their ears long and floppy and they all grew curly tails.

With grunts and squeals the Goblins had become for a time – pigs.

' _Now's your chance, Trixie,' the Wizard said as he landed the magic carpet near the long line of cages._

' _Take this.' He gave her a small wand-like stick. 'It will let you open the locks and chains.'_

As fast as she could, Trixie ran over to the nearest cage – Bouncey's.

' _Wow, you made it,' said Bouncey excitedly, as Trixie unlocked the cage and the chain round Sundew's ankles._

' _We did what you said. `We all put something over our mouths when we heard the loud bang in the Goblin Village. Sundew passed it on to the other elves.'_

Sundew shyly said hello to Trixie, as she rushed off to set free the other elves.

### 10

Hairleg had overslept and he hurried to join the morning parade he stopped when he heard shouts and screams coming from the other side of the Chief Goblin's hut.

Creeping up to the corner, Hairleg carefully looked round it. He couldn't believe what he saw.

The Chief Goblin and the Guards were all on their knees, squealing and grunting like pigs. What's more, they even looked like pigs.

Hairleg felt afraid and he turned around and ran up the hill towards the goldmine. He was just passing the smoky hole when he saw a big bird flying towards him.

It was Tawney the Owl and he had seen Hairleg running up the hill. As he swooped down, Tawny saw that it was the nasty Goblin who had thrown the stone that had hurt his wing.

He flew faster and faster and held out his sharp talons to catch hold of the horrible Goblins hair.

Hairleg looked up to see Tawney just about to crash into him, so he turned and jumped into the smoky hole, hoping to hide on the edge of it.

' _Noo_ ooooooo!' _wailed Hairleg, as he fell right down the deep, deep hole._

He shouldn't have hurt me, _thought Tawney, as he flew back towards the Wizard, still flying around above the Goblin village, on his magic carpet._

### 11

Bouncey was glad to get out of the smelly cage and watched Trixie move from one cage to another, unlocking them and the ankle chains of the elves.

Many of the elves moved to the back of the cages because they were frightened the Goblins might come for them.

So Sundew had to go and tell them that the Goblins could not hurt them anymore. Trixie was a friend, he told them, and they could all come out and go home.

A big crowd of elves was soon talking loudly to each other. How can we get back home from here, they kept saying.

Then it began to get dark. A big cloud had suddenly appeared.

The elves stopped talking, and huddled close together in front of the cages, feeling that something bad was about to happen as the cloud came down lower and lower.

Before anyone could shout out, a figure flew out of the cloud.

It was Aerie the Faery and as she got to the ground, she called out to the elves.

' _Don't be afraid. I have brought you a ride home. My friend Athan, Keeper of the Unicorns has sent some of his of unicorns to take you all home.'_

As Aerie said this, the cloud faded away, leaving a herd of unicorns, facing the elves.

A great cheer went up from the elves when they saw them.

Sundew raised his hands and it went quiet.

' _Aerie, we the elves thank you and Athan for sending your friends the Unicorns to help us, and we thank Trixie the Pixie, the Wizard and Bouncey for what they did to help us. But from what Bouncey has told me, we elves should give a big, big cheer for Tawney the Owl, for his bravery. Without Tawney's help, we would still be slaves of the horrible Goblins.'_

Then Sundew said in a loud voice, 'For Tawney the Owl. Hip, hip - elves.'

'HOORAY _'_

Tawney flying above the crowd of elves waggled his wings as a thank you, before he flew away.

The Unicorns were getting restless, some were snorting and shuffling their hooves. They wanted to be off.

Sundew called for the elves to form a line of twos and using a convenient rock as a step, helped the elves mount the unicorns led by Aerie the Faery.

As soon as the last elf was on his unicorn, the herd began to trot towards the River of Dreams and on to where the elves lived near Mirror Lake.

' _Bye,' called Sundew from the front of the Unicorn herd. Aerie waved bye as well. She was going to show the unicorns the way._

Then they were gone.

### 12

' _Well,' said Bouncey to Trixie, 'I suppose we had better get going. It's a long walk back home. Pity there were no more unicorns left. I could have used one.'_

' _Don't be silly, look who's coming down.'_

Bouncey looked up as the Wizard zoomed down towards them.

' _Want a lift you two?' he called._

They both nodded and waited for the magic carpet to land next to them.

' _I say Trixie, I've just got a brilliant idea.' Bouncey said excitedly._

' _What if we could use the magical black boxes to call for a ride when we need one again.'_

' _I don't think so,' said Trixie. 'I can't see it catching on.'_

***

Swerlie-Wherlie

and

Bulfrey the Bull

It was so quiet, well not that quiet. Swerlie-Wherlie could just hear the gentle snore of Mumsy who lay in the early morning shade of the sty-pen's high wall.

I must have overslept, he thought to himself as he stretched his four little trotters and looked around the sty-pen.

He sat up with a jerk.

'Hey, where is everybody?'

One of Mumsy's large ears twitched.

Ooops, I'd better not make a noise, he thought. Mumsy did not like being wakened from one of her many naps.

Then he looked around again.

Not one of his eleven brothers and sisters were to seen.

It was the lack of their squabbling, the grunts and squeals that Swerlie-Wherlie had noticed. He might have stayed asleep forever, he thought.

Careful not to wake Mumsy, he crept through the sty-pen gate and began to cross Farmer Blox's farmyard.

'Hi Swerlie-Wherlie, looks like it's going to be a nice day, don't you think?' A friendly voice said.

Cockie the cockerel had stopped preening his feathers for a moment to look at Swerlie-Wherlie.

He was feeling so much better today, He didn't have to do any more of what Barney the barn owl had asked him to do. Feed his owlets for one week. A whole week!

Asked. More like told me what to do or else and Cockie shuddered at the thought of Barney's staring big eyes and those fierce, long sharp talons and what might have happened if he had said no.

Then Cockie bent down and gave Swerlie-Wherlie such a look.

Swerlie-Wherlie just stared at Cockie in amazement.

'Are you okay? He asked politely.

He knew that the young animals on the farm usually kept away from Cockie, who often picked on them for nothing.

Cockie leaned back and stretched his large colourful wings.

'Couldn't be better, couldn't be better,' he said cheerfully and to prove it he took a big breath.

'Cockadoodle Doooooo.'

Oh no, thought Swerlie-Wherlie.

''Sorry Cockie, I have to go,' and he rushed out of the farmyard, past the cornfield gate and didn't stop until he reached the large meadow.

He paused only long enough to crawl through a small gap in the hedge by the padlocked gate. Funny, he thought. Why is the gate padlocked? He entered the field.

On the far side of it he saw a large brown animal lying down. It turned a huge head, which had a set of long horns sticking out and looked curiously at him.

He walked slowly over and stopped.

'Hello,' a deep voice said. 'I don't get many visitors these days. It's nice to meet you. I'm Bulfrey the bull.'

Swerlie-Wherlie looked up at Bulfrey. He felt so small standing next to him.

'Err, I'm Swerlie-Wherlie.'

'Oh, are you the one who caused all that trouble the other day, when a fox tried to get at Farmer Blox's hens?'

'That's not true,' cried Swerlie-Wherlie, 'Sox is my friend and she wouldn't hurt a fly. Anyway I was only showing her my sty-pen. It's not my fault that Farmer Blox fell over and and fired his shot gun.'

'Well that's not what I heard,' said Bulfrey. 'I was told something completely different by one of those old barn loft pigeons. Now you mention it. I should have known better. They will tell you anything to get your attention. Then before you know it they've pinched all of your corn or food pellets.'

'I'm glad you understand Bulfrey, not many would,' Swerlie-Wherlie said.

He was beginning to like Bulfrey, so he asked him if there were any acorn trees near his meadow.

'Just a minute,' said Bulfrey, getting to his feet. He towered over Swerlie-Wherlie and had to move two or three steps backwards so that he could look down at him.

'You're not very big,' he said. 'I mean you can't be very old.'

'Well I am a piglet. That means I'm very young. You should see my dad though. He is huge. Err, not like you though, Bulfrey. I think you are the biggest bull in the whole world.'

Bulfrey coughed, and pawed the ground with one large front hoof and his long tail flicked to and fro.

'I wouldn't go that far, Swerlie-Wherlie,' he said. Though he was mighty pleased by the compliment.

'Yes, actually there are some acorn trees in the next meadow. Would you like me to show you?'

'If you don't mind, yes please.'

So the pair of them walked slowly along the hedgerow towards a gap that led to the next meadow.

Swerlie-Wherlie was feeling happy. This was turning out to be an exciting day.

The next field sloped down to a narrow lane along which several acorn trees grew.

A twitch of his nose told Swerlie-Wherlie that there were acorns nearby, lots and lots of them.

'Do you like acorns, Bulfrey?'

Bulfrey gave a loud snort. 'Well I don't, though some cattle do eat them. I have heard that acorns can give cows tummy ache. That's why I don't eat them.'

'Oh goody, more for me.'

'Now now, Swerlie-Wherlie I hope you aren't one of those greedy animals that don't know when to stop eating when they are full?'

'How can you say that Bulfrey? Me, a little piglet – greedy, I hope not.' But he said it with a little smile.

While Swerlie-Wherlie was rooting for acorns, Bulfrey was enjoying eating the long grass, which grew alongside the hedgerow.

They were suddenly interrupted by an ewe sheep, which came dashing through the hedge as though she was being chased by a pack of hungry wolves.

'Hey, steady on, slow down. What's the hurry?' said Bulfrey, shifting his huge body out of the way.

Then he gave a big snort of surprise. 'My, it's little Eulia. Why are you running so fast?'

'Oh thank goodness it's you Bulfrey,' panted Eulia. 'Can you help me. Please please, can you help me, Bulfrey?'

'What's the matter,' asked Bulfrey kindly. 'Take your time and tell me.'

'It's my flock. Some humans have captured them and I think they will take them all away. I only just got away because I went for a drink in the stream,' Eulia said, before lying down under the acorn tree, trying to get her breath back.

It took some time but Eulia eventually felt calm enough to tell them what had happened.

Further down the lane, the fields went up a big hill. There were few hedges, so the flock could graze (eat grass) wherever they wanted.

It didn't matter really, because the flock never went too far away, and their shepherd could easily find them.

Anyway, Eulia went on, earlier that day, some humans and a sheepdog came up the hill and drove the flock down to the old mill next to a stream.

That's where I was having my drink when I heard a dog barking. The tall bracken by the stream hid me from the humans and the sheepdog was too busy guiding the flock to notice me.

Then the flock was driven inside the old mill and a big door was closed, trapping them inside.

I was wondering what to do when a human shouted and the sheepdog suddenly looked towards me and barked. I knew I had been seen so I ran in the stream and then back to the lane, keeping as low as I could in the bracken. I came here as fast as I could, hoping to get some help to rescue my friends.'

'Bulfrey looked down at Eulia who was not much bigger than Swerlie-Wherlie and said, 'I think you were very lucky, Eulia. That sheepdog must have lost your scent when you ran down the stream, otherwise ... well.... errrm.'

He was interrupted by Swerlie-Wherlie. 'Let's go and see what's happening at the old mill. Maybe we can help Eulia rescue her friends.'

Bulfrey wanted to help, but he was so big. 'Surely,' he said, 'I would be seen from a long way off.'

'You would be, but what if you had some of your herd with you. Nobody would think you were doing anything by walking down a lane with them.' Swerlie-Wherlie was getting excited at the thought of being part of an adventure.

'That might work,' said Bulfrey as he looked over to the other side of the meadow where several cows were grazing. 'It's a start anyway. I'll get my friends from over there.' And he pointed with his huge head towards them.

'Moooooo! Mooooo!' he called loudly.

The cows stopped grazing and looked over the field at Bulfrey.

'Moooooo! Moooooo!' he called again and the cows began to slowly walk towards him.

'I think it's better if you two make your own way to the old mill but make sure you're not seen,' Bulfrey said. 'Then we can follow you down the lane as though we are going back to the farm. I can explain to my friends what has happened to Eulia and her flock on the way.'

Swerlie-Wherlie and Eulia both nodded and went to the hole in the hedge by the acorn tree. Eulia being the oldest went first and carefully pushed through the hedge.

The lane was empty.

It was easier for Swerlie-Wherlie, as he was much smaller and they were soon on their way down the lane.

When they reached the bridge over the stream, Eulia stopped and said, 'This is where I got out of the water. If we go back the same way we might not be seen.'

'Good idea,' said Swerlie-Wherlie.

There was a gap between the hedgerow and the stonewall of the bridge which they got through quite easily and then made their way down the steep side of the stream.

Fortunately, it was not very deep, so they were able to walk carefully upstream without much difficulty.

Another thing Swerlie-Wherlie noticed which helped them were the bushes growing alongside the stream. They gave good cover as they got near the old mill.

'Baaa. Baaa.'

The bleating of lots of sheep was suddenly heard.

'That's my flock,' whispered Eulia quietly. 'They don't sound very happy. I do hope Bulfrey will be able to rescue them.'

'I'm sure he will do his best,' said Swerlie-Wherlie, crossing his tail for luck.

'Shssssss,' hissed Eulia urgently, 'There's the old mill.'

Through a gap in the bushes, Swerlie-Wherlie saw an old building.

It was built on the side of a small hill. The stream had once rushed down the slope next to the old mill but Swerlie-Wherlie noticed that it had changed its direction; the streambed was now dry, (the water in the stream was now running below the spot where they were hiding, not too far from the mill yard).

The water wheel fixed to the wall had not been used for many, many years. That's why the building had been left empty. Half the roof was gone and all the windows were broken. The only sign that it was being used were the big double doors, firmly shut and padlocked with a shiny new chain.

A rough track went from the mill yard to a small bridge that crossed the stream that they were standing in and joined the lane that Bulfrey and his friends were coming up. So Swerlie-Wherlie hoped.

A large lorry was parked by the big doors with dark smelly smoke coming from its exhaust pipe.

'Baaa. Baaa.'

More cries from the old mill.

Just then, Swerlie-Wherlie heard the clumping of heavy feet in the lane. Turning round he saw Bulfrey leading two of his friends as though they hadn't a care in the world.

'Bulfrey,' he whispered as loud as he dared. 'Bulfrey.'

Fortunately, Bulfrey heard Swerlie-Wherlie and was quite surprised when Swerlie-Wherlie came up to the fence by the side of the lane.

'Hello, Swerlie-Wherlie, I didn't expect to see you so soon. These are my two friends, Daisy and Buttercup. I have told them about Eulia and the missing sheep and they have agreed to help.'

Buttercup and Daisy nodded their heads, as they continued chewing their cud. (A mouthful of grass).

'That's just it, Bulfrey. We don't know what to do yet. Could and your friends sort of have something to eat around here until me and Eulia can think of a plan to save her flock.'

Bulfrey looked around. 'There is a patch of land just over that bridge.' He pointed with his nose. 'It seems to be a good place for us to graze.'

'Super, that should give us time to think of something. Thanks Bulfrey, we'll see you in a bit, okay.'

Bulfrey nodded and led his two friends down towards the bridge.

Swerlie-Wherlie crept back to where he had left Eulia.

'What's happening?' she asked anxiously.'

'Err, not a lot at the moment,' he said in a worried voice. 'To be honest, I don't have a clue of what to do next.'

Before Eulia could say anything else, there was a rustling in the bushes and a long thin body appeared.

'Hi, I thought I recognised your voice,' hissed Izzzzzabela, the grass snake as she slithered closer to them.

Eulia had crouched down behind Swerlie-Wherlie when she saw Izzzzzabela, feeling very scared of being so near a snake.

'It's okay, Eulia, this is my friend. She saved me when I was in trouble not long ago, didn't you Izzzzzabela?'

Forming a coil by twisting her body round and round, Izzzzzabela could lift her head quite high and looked at Eulia.

'I only did what a good friend would do,' she hissed. 'Anyway you saved me from that big bird, didn't you?'

Ah, yes, Swerlie–Wherlie remembered. Barney the owl had caught her, not knowing she was his friend.

'Well then,' said Eulia. 'A friend of Swerlie-Wherlie is a friend of mine as well but what are we going to do about my flock.

Izzzzzabela's head swayed too and fro. She was curious about what Eulia meant.

Swerlie-Wherlie quickly told her about the sheep being taken by the bad humans and how he had asked Bulfrey and his friends to help rescue them.

'The trouble is Izzzzzabela, I can't think of a way to do it. Can you?'

'Well, one thing I can do, is sneak into the building where they are being kept and see if there is a way of getting all of them safely out.'

'Wow, that would be fantastic,' said Swerlie-Wherlie. 'We'll creep down to Bulfrey by the bridge and tell him what you are doing. All right?'

Izzzzzabela nodded her head and slithered off down the banking and crossed the stream, before wriggling between small bushes and clumps of grass towards the old mill as Swerlie-Wherlie and Eulia made their careful way to Bulfrey and his friends.

Snakes can move much faster than most through rough ground and she was soon by the old mill next to the water wheel.

It had come loose from the broken rusty iron bar (shaft) that had connected it to the grinding wheel inside the mill, so Izzzzzabela wriggled her way up the water wheel and over the broken bit and slithered through the hole in the wall into the old mill and stopped.

She wrapped herself round the iron bar that was still in place, fixed to a large flat, wheel-shaped piece of machinery inside a huge room. Izzzzzabela saw that the flock of sheep were huddled together in the far corner of the room. A pile of grass and a small water trough was next to them but none of them were eating or drinking. They were all looking at the sheepdog which sat staring at them with a glaring look in its eyes.

The sheep kept shuffling, pushing against each other, trying to get as far away as possible from the dog, bleating in terror, whenever it growled if one of them got near to it.

The two humans were sitting on old boxes. One was speaking on a mobile phone, and the other was sharpening a big knife with a small stone.

Izzzzzabela decided that she had seen enough, so she turned and wriggled her way back the way she had come and slithered as fast as she could towards the bridge to tell the others what she had seen.

'Well,' said Bulfrey, a while later, as they all lay amid a patch of tall bracken and some bushes by the bridge. It made a good place to hide.

'I think the first thing is, how do we get the sheepdog away from the flock? The humans wouldn't be able to move them would they? I mean not properly. Isn't that right, Eulia?'

Eulia nodded her head. 'Yes, and because they have been so afraid for such a long time, even a sheepdog would find it hard to move them to where they should go.'

'What if I go up to the old mill doors and make some noises,' said Swerlie-Wherlie. 'They might send the dog out to chase me away.'

Then ... 'Err, I don't know what would happen then. It was a stupid idea anyway.'

'Now, now, don't say that,' said Bulfrey kindly. 'It is a good idea but we need a bit more help to make it work. Someone to make sure you don't get hurt while you are doing it, Swerlie-Wherlie.'

'Yes, but who?' he asked, 'There's no one else here.'

'I say,' a voice called from above them. 'Is this a party. Can anyone join?'

Circling just over them was Barney the owl.

Izzzzzabela hissed angrily when she saw him.

Swerlie-Wherlie hurriedly spoke up.

'Oh, hi Barney, you know everybody, especially Izzzzzabela, don't you and it's not a party as such but if you like come down and join us. We could use some help.'

Izzzzzabela hissed again when she heard this but kept still.

Barney circled around again and swooped down to a nearby tree branch looking anxiously at Izzzzzabela.

Swerlie-Wherlie was desperate to keep the peace between Barney and Izzzzzabela.

'Now that Barney knows that Izzzzzabela is my friend, I think he has something to say to her, don't you Barney?'

Barney hopped from one taloned foot to the other in embarrassment.

'Err, I..., err...' he blinked his large eyes several times. 'I'm sss sorry I picked you up by mistake the other day and I'm glad you weren't hurt when you fell ... when I dropped you in the farmyard pond.'

'Well I suppose anyone can make mistakes,' said Izzzzzabela, 'I hope we can become friends too Barney. What do you say?'

Phew, thought Barney, I don't deserve this. I don't have many friends but Izzzzzabela, wow.

'Sure, I'd be delighted to be your friend.'

'Good,' said Bulfrey. 'Now that's sorted out, let's tell Barney what our problem is and see if he can help us, okay.'

Barney listened to the story and immediately offered to help Swerlie-Wherlie when he was ready to go to the mill and tease the sheepdog into coming outside.

As soon as Bulfrey said that they had no time to waste, Swerlie-Wherlie set off for the mill doors, with Barney flying overhead.

Using the dried up streambed as cover, Swerlie-Wherlie crept along until he was near the big lorry, still making lots of black smoke from its noisy engine.

Climbing up the banking of the old stream bed, he crept towards the large double doors, the shiny chain now hanging from one door handle and he saw that they were partly open and he could hear the poor sheep inside bleating. They were still very frightened.

Taking a big breath, just like Cockie the cockerel would have done, he thought with a smile, he began to grunt and oink as loudly as he could, before running to hide under the noisy lorry.

A few moments later the sheepdog ran out barking furiously, then stopped and looked around puzzled. Then it saw Swerlie-Wherlie under the lorry and with bared teeth, rushed at him.

Oh no, thought Swerlie-Wherlie, as he scrambled out from under the lorry. What do I do now?

The big sheepdog bounded up growling fiercely.

'You're for it now piglet.'

Then out of the sky came a flash of feathers and the screech of an owl, Barney had arrived in the nick of time.

Feet first, his sharp talons nipped the sheepdog on his back before he swooped upwards and flipped in the air to attack again.

The sheepdog howled, more in shock than pain and turned to run back into the old mill.

Barney was ready for that. He flew down across the front of the big doors, hooting loudly.

The sheepdog gave a yelp and turned back towards the lorry.

With a twitch of his wings, Barney spun round and dived at the sheepdog again.

The way to the lorry was blocked, so the now panicky sheepdog turned and ran down to the dried-up streambed, chased by Barney, who was hooting for all he was worth.

Swerlie-Wherlie saw his chance and ran away from the lorry as fast as he could.

The sheepdog got the shock of his life when racing up the far bank of the old stream he saw the huge shape of Bulfrey towering above him.

Bulfrey gave a huge bellow when he saw the sheepdog. It echoed all around the mill yard and the sheepdog skidded to a halt, not knowing which way to go.

Barney swooped down again, still hooting loudly and the sheepdog scrambled madly through the nearest hedge and ran into the lane, yelping for help.

A few more dives and hoots from Barney and the sheepdog decided that it had had enough and it began to run down the lane away from the old mill and the sheep.

Barney made sure that it didn't come back.

By now the humans in the old mill knew that something was wrong.

One of them had got into the lorry and was turning it around whilst the other kept guard by the big doors, making sure no sheep could escape.

Just then, Swerlie-Wherlie came up to Bulfry panting hard and his little trotters aching.

'We have to stop them leaving the mill yard,' he said, 'What do you think Bulfrey?'

'I agree.' Bulfrey said, as he turned to Buttercup and Daisy, who had been patiently waiting to help all this time.

'Would you two go and lie down in the gateway to the old mill,' he asked them. 'It will give me more time to think of a better way of stopping their lorry from leaving.'

Buttercup and Daisy nodded, and went off straight away.

Izzzzzabela, who had climbed a nearby tree to keep a look out since Barney was still chasing the sheepdog, came back with the news that the bad humans were loading the flock onto the lorry without the sheepdog.

Poor Eulia was really upset when she heard this.

'Come on,' Swerlie-Wherlie said urgently to Bulfrey, 'Let's get closer and see if there is a way of stopping them getting away with the flock.'

So they went through the thickest bushes and trees towards the water wheel side of the mill, hoping that they wouldn't be seen. But the bad humans were too busy with the flock to notice them.

The water wheel was huge but Swerlie-Wherlie noticed a few things about it.

It was not fixed to the wall because the iron bar had rusted away in places and the mill was built on a slope. It had to be because the water in the stream flowed downhill and this is what turned the big wheel.

'Bulfrey, Bulfrey, look, the big wheel is loose,' he said excitedly. 'Do you think you can push it?'

'Push it. Of course I could push it. Why?'

'Well, do you think Daisy and Buttercup can stop that big lorry?'

'Err, for a short time, maybe,' Bulfrey said.

'But they could be injured too.'

Bulfrey looked closely at Swerlie-Wherlie and said quietly, 'What do you want me to do?'

Suddenly, Swerlie-Wherlie felt afraid. What if he was not doing the right thing. All-sorts of things might go wrong.

Then the lorry's engine began to get louder.

'They must be getting ready to leave,' shouted Swerlie-Wherlie. 'Do it now Bulfrey, do it now.'

Bulfrey went to the far side of the water wheel. He was standing in the dry streambed and put his big shoulder against the water wheel and pushed.

There was a loud creaking noise and the water wheel rocked forward and then rolled back.

'Harder, Bulfrey, harder. Oh no! I think the lorry is moving. You can do it; you're the strongest bull in the world.'

Bulfrey took a big big breath and pushed.

The water wheel rolled forward and Bulfrey pushed again. It began to roll more quickly. The steep slope now made the wheel roll faster and faster as it went down the middle of the old dried up stream bed.

'It's going to miss the gate!' cried Swerlie-Wherlie in a disappointed voice. 'We've failed.'

Then Bulfrey suddenly bellowed out at the top of his voice, 'Daisy, Buttercup, get away from the gate. Get away now.'

The clatter of the rolling water wheel suddenly changed. A loud thump was followed by a great big crash.

Daisy told them later that the big wheel had hit a rock just before the gate and it had changed its course and fell across the gateway just where she and Buttercup had been lying a moment before, completely blocking the way out.

The driver of the lorry had to stop very quickly to avoid crashing into the wrecked water wheel that now barred their way out of the old mill yard.

The two bad humans got out of the lorry and ran back to the old mill, leaving the terrified flock trapped in the back of it, bleating for help.

'You go and see where those humans are going, Swerlie-Wherlie. I have to get the flock out of that lorry, before anything else goes wrong,' said Bulfrey before he hurried away.

Swerlie-Wherlie nodded and went to the corner of the old mill and carefully had a look. The two bad humans had just crossed the mill yard and were trying to open the big doors.

'You had the key to the padlock,' one was saying.

'No I didn't, you had it and now we're stuck. The two scooters are now locked inside. What are we to do?'

Swerlie-Wherlie moved forward, trying to hear better, knocked a stone with one of his trotters and the humans stopped arguing when they heard the noise.

'Well, well, look what the farmer's brought us,' said one.

'A nice little piglet, maybe the night hasn't been wasted after all.'

Swerlie-Wherlie felt very scared. He didn't want to be caught by these bad humans.

Then one of them screamed and pointed, 'Look, look an adder,' and they both turned and ran round the corner. A moment later there was the sound of breaking wood and a cry of pain that seemed to echo.

'Why did they run away,' hissed Izzzzzabela, 'I'm not an adder. (A poisonous snake) I'm a grass snake.'

'Never mind,' said a relieved piglet, catching sight of her as well. 'Talk about saving my bacon. Let's go and see what all that noise was.'

They got quite a shock when they saw what had happened. The two bad humans had run over the top of an old well. The wooden covering had caved in and they had fallen down two or three metres onto a layer of thick mud. The well was just deep enough to stop them climbing out by themselves.

'I think they can stay here for a bit, don't you Izzzzzabela. They won't be going anywhere for a while. Let's go and see what Bulfrey's been up to, shall we.'

They found that Bulfrey had to head butt the rear door of the lorry several times before it fell down as a ramp so that the flock could all walk down safely to be met by a tearful Eulia.

'My darlings, my darlings. You are all safe, thanks to Bulfrey, Swerlie-Wherlie, Izzzzzabela and Barney,' who happened to be flying above them just then.

'I know you are all tired and hungry, but give a cheer for them,' she said to her flock.

But the flock was still confused with what had happened to them and they all shouted, 'Baaaaaney, Baaaaaney, Baaaaaney.'

High above them Barney the owl blushed. He never knew that he had that many friends.

Just then Farmer Blox arrived with two of his men looking for Bulfrey and his two friends, Daisy and Buttercup.

Then he noticed the flock of sheep and the big lorry. He took out his mobile and made a call, then asked his men to have a look around. They soon heard the two bad men in the well shouting for help. They thought that since they were not really hurt, they could wait for the authorities to deal with them.

Swerlie-Wherlie and Izzzzzabela had said a hurried goodbye to Bulfrey and Eulia and quietly left the old mill yard unnoticed by Farmer Blox.

After a while, as they came to the acorn tree, Izzzzzabela said that she had to see a friend and so she said bye to Swerlie-Wherlie and hoped that the next time they met it would be less hectic.

'Me too,' he replied but she had gone.

Swerlie-Wherlie reached the farmyard. It was so quiet.

Just like this morning, he thought.

Then Cockie came into view.

'Do you know what?' he said, 'Barney has just told me that he saved a whole flock of sheep from certain doom. I mean Swerlie-Wherlie, what will he say next. He's not going to pull the wool over my eyes I can tell you.'

Then he asked, 'Have you ever heard this sung so well, and he took a deep breath.'

'Cockadoodle Doooooo.'

''Sorry Cockie, got to run,' Swerlie-Wherlie said, before making his way towards the sty-pen.

Then he began to trot more quickly as he heard familiar voices.

'Hey, that's my place'

'No it isn't, it's mine.'

It's nice to be home, he thought.

***

Return to Contents

As Brian Leo Lee

(Children's stories)

Just Bouncey

Bouncey the Elf and Friends Meet Again

Bouncey the Elf and Friends Together Again

Mr Tripsy's Trip

Mr Tripsy's Boat Trip

Four Tales from Sty-Pen

As Brian Leon Lee

Trimefirst

Domain of the Netherworld

Spectre of El Dorado

The Club

All available as eBooks

http://www.bounceytheelf.co.uk

The Author

Watercolour painting

Rita Clements Lee

ritaclementslee-artist.co.uk/

*

The author was born in Manchester. On leaving school, a period in accountancy was followed by a teaching career in Primary Education.

Several years of telling his own stories to his two, then young children, when on camping holidays, led to the development of his many story characters.

As Brian Leon Lee, he has published several books, including the popular, 'Domain of the Netherworld'.

Return to top

