 
BROTHER

Book 2 in the Aberrant series.

By Jo-Anne Sieppert

SMASHWORDS EDITION

* * * * *

Published by

Jo-Anne Sieppert on Smashwords

Copyright © 2013 by Jo-Anne Sieppert

All rights reserved.

Smashwords Edition License Notes

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each person you share it with. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then you should return to Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the author's work.

* * * * *

DEDICATION

This book is dedicated to my husband Scott Sieppert. Thank you for supporting me, listening to me ramble on and on, reading my manuscripts over and over again and not getting annoyed when I bring my computer to bed. I love a little more every day that goes by.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Thank you to Eren Wiebe for editing and encouragement.

* * * * *

Prologue

Rules

"And to what do I owe the pleasure of your visit this evening Bartholomew? It is rather late after all."

"Late it may be August, but this cannot wait until morning I am afraid."

"Well then, it sounds like this may require a drink. Gretta, pour two drinks, then fetch our guest something from the kitchen." The young servant curtsied, kept her eyes on the ground and did as she was told.

"Nothing from the kitchen, a drink will do just fine." Bartholomew said. The two men then waited for the servant to be clear of the room. August listened to the sound of her footsteps retreating down the hallway from his study, while staring at a large tapestry that hung above the fireplace.

"Your new piece is finished I see, it does look grand indeed. I must have one of my own made for my wall."

"I shall send the women your way. She is quite talented." When they were sure the servant was clear of hearing their words, Bartholomew turned his eyes from the exquisite tapestry of August and began to explain the reason for his late night calling.

"I'm telling you August, when rules are broken, trust is broken. Without trust we have nothing left."

"I simply cannot believe it to be true, he is our friend Bartholomew, we have known the man for hundreds of years. I cannot believe he has broken of all rules, that rule."

"Well it seems as though we don't know Nathaniel as well as we believed we did. He has indeed Fathered a mutt. Rules were broken; he is broken. August, Nathaniel is not the same man, as we once knew. He has changed. She has changed him." August downed his drink with one gulp. Placed his glass down and paced the floor, his finger tapping his lips as he pondered over the information before him.

"Bartholomew, you are talking about Nathaniel, his wife Emeline is also Aberrant they could not have given birth to a mutt, and if my memory is correct I have seen Emeline on more than one occasion over the last while and I do not believe she was with child."

"Do not be so foolish August, a man is more than capable of fathering a child with a woman other than his wife." August stared at Bartholomew, this situation would need to be dealt with carefully, and how he would proceed would change everything.

"Are you certain your information is correct? The informant, he is reliable?"

"August stop pacing, you will wear through the floor. The informant, you tell me if he is reliable."

"I could tell you if I knew who he was." August poured himself another drink. Drank it in one gulp and poured another.

"I had thought he would have told you himself. Isaac is the one who confirmed it was in fact Bartholomew who fathered the mutt."

"Isaac? How could Isaac have such information?" Right on cue there was a knock on the door.

"Hello Father, Bartholomew." A young man entered the room dressed as smartly at August yet his shoes were covered in mud. August glanced at the young man's feet with obvious disapproval.

"Good evening Isaac, I was just informing your Father of the situation with Nathaniel."

"I believe I have spoken to you before about the state of your footwear when you return home."

"Sorry Father, it won't happen again."

"Bartholomew explained that you are the one who confirmed that it was in fact Nathaniel, and that the rumors about the mutt are true."

"That is correct Father. I witnessed Nathaniel speaking to the mutt myself." The young man stood confidently as he explained to his Father. "I overheard them speaking. I had my suspicions so I followed him. They met in an alleyway beyond the market. He gave the mutt a small package, and what looked like a jewelry box. I heard him mention the name of the whore who gave birth to him as Josephine Wells."

"That woman died Isaac, some years ago, she was found in the streets." August said, refilling his drink. "The rogues were attacking all the whores and the homeless in the area. We covered her murder up."

"I have not forgotten Father."

"Nathaniel took care of her body. He was the one who found her, and he was the one who disposed of her." Bartholomew said.

"Nathaniel told the mutt to disappear, he said there was enough in the package to take care of him for now and that he would find him when he could."

"Isaac you have to be sure son. Did Nathaniel say anything else?" August said as he placed both his hands on Isaac's shoulders, he looked into his eyes.

"That is all that I heard Father."

"August what more do you need? We cannot put this off any longer. Once we deal with Nathaniel, Aberrant's will once again have faith in the power of their Elite. We must restore order within our people, dealing with Nathaniel's mess is the first and most important step to doing that."

"And we are certain this is the reason why others are going rouge? I wasn't aware that so many were aware of the mutts' existence."

"Father, people saw what happened when they boy was protecting his mother; that fall should have killed him. Yet he walked away, unscathed."

"We must get a handle on the situation, August."

"What other choice do we have then, order must be restored." August sat in a chair facing the blazing fire. Defeated he hung his head.

"You know there is only one way this is to be handled August. We are the highest members of the Elite, if we start making exceptions for our friends the others will believe we have faltered. The rogues will gain even more followers, they will begin to challenge our authority, and they will risk exposure. We have no choice, he must be killed along with his mutt." August simply nodded. Rules are rules, after all, and this particular one must never be broken".

* * * * *

1

Brave

I never used to be brave. Not like this. Some may say it was brave of me to return to school and the imminent torture I was to face from the Painfully Perfects, day in and day out. I however, would neither say that was brave or smart for that matter. It was more the fact that I had no other choice, dropping out of school and running away to join the circus was unfortunately just not an option in today's society; not to say that I hadn't thought about it.

Yet as I stood there, in front of the entire class; each person fixated on me, staring at me as though they were glued in my direction; and spoke directly to the Perfects, especially after what they had done to me, in that exact moment I was brave!

"What's the matter with you guys? You look like you have seen a ghost." I said. My voice was strong, steady, and full of courage. I had no need to be afraid of them anymore. There was nothing else they could do to me now. They had killed me once already, and yet, here I stood, in the flesh, Delilah May Martin.

I watched as the colour drained from each one of their stone like faces. Their eyes widened, I could smell the sweet scent of fear in the air. Time stood still, or at least it felt as though it did to me. The world was silent, allowing me to bask in my moment of glory. A single tear trickled slowly down Katie's face, as the realization of her unnecessary loss of Sebastian set in.

Six pairs of eyes stared at me so intently I could feel them trying to make certain I was real. I could almost hear the thoughts rushing through their heads.

"How is it possible?" Their first obvious question; a question they would not be able to ask anyone without exposing what they had done to me. Then I saw Katie's lips move slightly, a low whisper escaping from them, dancing to my ears. I smiled, satisfied with her one solitary word. Vampire. Oh how very wrong she was.

"Delilah, Art, I am glad you both made it." Mrs. Watson said bringing me back to reality. Her eyes were red and swollen, much like the rest of the eyes in the classroom that were still all locked in my direction. The news of Sebastian's death had circulated the town of Echo quickly, quicker than the usual news of such trivial things like haircuts and new cars.

"In light of the recent tragedy we will not be having our regular scheduled classes today. However, in ten minutes each class will be heading to the gym for a special memorial assembly. We have Pastor Graham here to speak to us all, and try and help us make sense of such a senseless situation." Mrs. Watson could barely make it through her sentence before tears welled up in her eyes again.

Katie and the other Perfects hadn't taken their eyes off me. I pretended I didn't notice. I sat in my desk, second row from the front. Sebastian's empty desk was to my right; I couldn't help but glance at it almost hoping to see him there. Jack was sat at the back of the room in his usual spot; I wished he were closer to me.

"Is your wrist better dear?" Mrs. Watson asked. I looked up and smiled.

"It's seems that way."

"Well, that's good, it healed nice and quickly for you. I like your new haircut."

"Thank you Mrs. Watson, so do I." I glanced towards Jess who was obviously wearing a wig.

"Did you do something different with your hair too, Jess? It looks...different." I asked. The whole class turned to look at her. Jess just shook her head, tears rolled down her cheeks. She looked as though she was about to get up, but Katie grabbed her arm. For the remaining eight minutes and fifteen seconds the whole class sat silently and watched the large clock on the wall and the seconds passed by slowly. I wanted so badly to twirl my hair, I reached for it a few times and quickly pretended to scratch my head. I wondered if Jack was watching the clock too, but I didn't dare turn around to look. I was afraid the Perfects would try and stab a stake through my chest or something. They were looking a bit crazy today, especially Katie. Not to mention the fact that as confidant and brave as I felt to show up to class and face the Perfects, the part of me that was dealing with Sebastian's death was only hanging on by a thread.

"Okay everyone, it is our turn to head to the gym now. Please do so in single file, there will be no assigned seating, we just ask that you be respectful to each other." Mrs. Watson finally instructed.

As the class started to leave, I waited in my seat for Jack, and I watched the Perfects leave the room together. Kevin was supporting Katie as she had now begun sobbing uncontrollably. Jack tapped me on the shoulder and took my hand. It felt so good to have him with me.

We followed the rest of the class down the main hallway to the gym. The school had new floors since the flood so the sound of every shoe seemed magnified and the smell of fresh paint and disinfectant burned my nose. As I passed each locker I wondered what personal effects had been lost in the flood that Jack and I had caused. How many workbooks or homework assignments had been ruined? Would students be expected to redo their work or would they be let off the hook?

When we passed Sebastian's locker I stopped, it was being covered with signatures and good-bye messages from students. Then it hit me. Had any of Sebastian's things been ruined by the flood? What was left in his locker now? Had his parents cleared it out or had Katie? What if all his things were still in there, what would happen to them? Would his locker be cleaned out and given to another student or would it forever be a shrine to him? I wanted to open it and see what was inside. I couldn't bear the thought of Katie having his things; she didn't deserve any of it.

Jack tugged at my hand, I continued on our way to the gym. Each and every student seemed to be affected by Sebastian's death, whether they knew him or not. Some of the younger students that definitely were not friends of his were even crying as they made their way to the gym. I couldn't help but wonder if everyone would be reacting the same way if it was a week earlier and it was my death they had all just been informed of. Would they be writing messages on my locker? Somehow I doubted it.

Jack and I took our seats across the room from the Perfects, I didn't want to be too close to them, but I wanted to see them, I wanted them to see me. I needed the constant reminder of what they had done to be right in front of their faces as much as possible. Jack had been right, death for them was too easy this was far worse torture.

Jack wrapped his arm around my waist and I rested my head on his shoulder as Pastor Graham along with Principle Foster walked to the front of the student filled gymnasium. Teachers were consoling other teachers; students were hugging each other all the while tears were flowing freely. Sobs could be heard from all directions, echoing through the gym, it was unconceivable how much Sebastian's death was affecting so many.

There was a large picture of Sebastian at the front next to a microphone; I recognized it right away as his school photo. Flowers were placed along the floor and a reef on a stand with Sebastian Dale in blue ribbon tied to it was placed on the other side of the microphone stand. There were large white candles lit around the whole make shift stage. It was really quite beautifully somber.

Principle Foster was an older man, probably in his sixties almost. He had grey hair and hard eyes that were not at all hidden by the half rimmed glasses he wore. He was always well dressed in a clean suit and polished shoes. Students seemed to fear him. Fortunately I haven't had to spend too much time in his office before. He had always been a fan of the Perfects, just like all the other teachers.

He slowly walked up to the microphone and tapped it to make sure it was working; it made the high pitched squeal that had everyone covering their ears, the telltale sign it was on and working. Jack gave me a little squeeze and I took a deep breath. I was trying not to lose control of my emotions. I didn't want the Perfects to see me cry.

"Good morning students." Principle Foster began with a shaky voice. "I am sure that you have all heard by now about the tragic loss of one of our students, Sebastian Dale." Tears escaped my eyes at the sound of his name; I wiped them away quickly.

"The loss of someone so young is devastating beyond words; and to lose them because they took their own life leaves us all with so many questions; questions that will never be answered. Why would one do that? What was so terrible that one would feel they had no other option?" I knew the answers to those questions, and so did the Perfects. I wanted to shout out that it was their fault, Katie and the others; they were the ones responsible for Sebastian's death! But I didn't. No one would believe me anyway.

"We all go through times where we feel that life is unbearable, that there is nothing that could ever make things better. But life always gets better; you just have to hang in there. Suicide is not the way to solve your problems. Suicide is a very permanent solution to a temporary problem. No matter what you may be worried about, or what problems you are facing, there is always someone you can talk to such as your parents, teachers, guidance counselor, myself or Pastor Graham." I wondered what they would have done if Sebastian would have tried to talk to them about the Perfects killing me?

"If you are worried you will get in trouble, you have to remember, that trouble isn't nearly as bad as death." Principle Foster went on for ages. Talking about all the different ways we can be there for each other and help with our grieving process. He also told us that extra guidance counselors would be there for all those who needed their help. I didn't hear all of his ramblings, I'm sure he meant well, but none of it actually applied to Sebastian's suicide, the circumstances of his choice were unique.

I watched as the students around me nodded along with his words, wiping their tears and blowing their noses. None of them had the slightest clue about the truth of it all, other than the Perfects. They would all go on thinking of reasons why Sebastian would do what he did, wondering what could have been so terrible in the life of a boy who seemed to have everything so, so perfect.

After what seemed like hours, Pastor Graham got up and began to give a sermon, about life, death and something about God guiding us all through our struggles. I had a hard time listening to him too, especially because I couldn't help but wonder where God had been through all of it. As he went on I felt the overwhelming need to get out of there; I wanted to run away as fast as I could to the island, to be away from all the sadness. But there was no way for me to escape unnoticed. Besides, I wasn't sure the island was the best place to escape. How could I ever go back there again without seeing that terrible vision of Sebastian hanging from that tree?

A young man took the stage who I didn't recognize; dressed in neatly pressed khaki pants and a wrinkle free collard dress shirt, not a hair out of place and gleaming white teeth; he looked like he was there to sell us all a bible. Apparently he was from a youth group that worked with troubled teens. The school had really gone out of their way to ensure we all knew that suicide wasn't the answer to any problems we may be having. I was slightly impressed I have to admit, but couldn't help resent the fact that they were too little too late. Where had the school been all those years when the Perfects were bullying and torturing me? The teachers didn't even notice let alone offer any helpful advice on how to deal with it. They say they are here for us if we need them but are they really? Would they have been saying the same thing to me if I had tried harder to get them to help me, that things are never that bad, life always gets better?

The young man was far to chipper for the crowd. I'm sure his intentions were to lighten the mood, and help stop anyone one else from following in Sebastian's footsteps, but he just annoyed the hell out of me. He began with explaining about the group he was from, "God's gang" he called it. I wondered if he knew the only gang Echo had was a group of snobby women that took over the coffee shop on a Saturday morning. After explaining about all the wonderful life altering hiking, fishing and camping trips they have taken; and all the bonding and communicating that happens while just spending time together, he finally began his speech.

"Imagine that you are standing on a bridge, you take a deep breath, you say goodbye to your friends and family, and you jump to your death." He definitely owned the stage as he walked around with his hands flailing about. "Like your principle dude said, you're making a permanent solution to a temporary problem." Did he really just say dude?

"You may be solving your own personal problem, but imagine the pain, suffering, and anguish that your friends, family, and peers go through. The people around you are wondering what was going through your mind and why you did it. Maybe you even told some of your friends that you were going to do it, and they didn't believe you, now how do you think they feel? You may have told your friends about your plans, but apparently your parents had no clue as to why you would choose to take your life, but this is the case with most teenage suicides. A lot of the time the parents don't have any clue that there was anything wrong in their children's lives, and also the teen's friends might have had some kind of clue, but they didn't do anything about it. Overall, they are left grieving their dead child or friend who took their own life away without any real explanation left behind. There is always help out there, for everyone. At "God's gang" we accept everyone, and there is no initiation." The guy laughed at his own joke, geez, what a wacko. Then he went on to list the warning signs of suicide.

"So if anyone you know shows any of these signs, it is so important you tell someone, you could be a life saver.

Suicidal talk

Preoccupation with death and dying.

Signs of depression

Behavioral changes

Giving away special possessions and making arrangements to take care of unfinished business.

Having trouble eating and sleeping

Taking excessive risks

Increased drug use

Loss of interest in usual activities." He held up giant cue cards with each list item on it for everyone to see. I felt like I needed to learn them all right then, as though we will be tested on them when we get back to class.

"So dudes and dudets, take care of each other, love each other, and most importantly talk to each other. Save a life, be a friend!" Really? The whole thing was more than painful.

Some of the teachers and members of the football team he had played with for the past few years got up and spoke about their memories of Sebastian. It was too much, I couldn't hold my tears back; I spent the whole time turned into Jack, leaning my head on his chest to hide my eyes. Not that it would have mattered. Everyone else in the gym, especially Katie and the other Perfects were pretty much doing the same thing.

When it was all finally over, it was time for lunch. I wasn't sure if that was going to be any better. Jack and I headed for the cafeteria, amongst the somber crowd.

"How are you doing?" Jack asked.

"I'm glad that part is over. I couldn't take any more of Principle Foster's attempt to prevent anyone else from following Sebastian. And that guy being all chipper and making jokes why would they bring him in, and where did they find him? God's gang, seriously?"

"I suppose it's the first suicide Echo has seen. They are probably stumped as to what the best way to handle this, that's all." Jack said.

"Well hopefully next time they don't use him."

"Hopefully there won't be a next time."

We sat at the same table Jack had always sat at alone. I used to eat my lunch on the floor in the back hallway, except for my one week as a Perfect. This was different, I felt like I was actually supposed to be there, like I finally belonged, even if it was only to Jack.

I watched the Perfects walk in and take their seats at their table. They were still glaring at me. I cringed slightly, more out of habit than anything.

"I won't let them hurt you any more Delilah. I promise." Jack said, holding my hand across the table. I smiled. It was easier to feel brave and safe when we were not at school, not at the place where I had been tortured and teased for so long.

"You are not the same person any more Delilah, remember, you're an Aberrant now. That changes everything." I wanted to believe Jack. I wanted that same confidence to return that I had first thing that morning.

"Why won't they say something? I want to know what they are thinking."

"They are probably too scared to. They don't know if you are a ghost or a Vampire. They don't know what to do. Or worse, they don't know what you will do." Jack said.

"I do like the idea of them being scared of me for a change."

"They are terrified. After the week they just had, I am surprised they haven't left the school running and screaming yet." I turned to look at Jack, I knew once I looked into his eyes I would gain at least some of my confidence again. He smiled, flashing his perfect white teeth and beautiful eyes.

The other tables filled up quietly. It was like watching a movie with the sound turned off. People were moving and eating but they did so all in silence. No one talked or laughed as they usually did at lunchtime, even those who were crying didn't seem to make a sound. It was unnerving. I wanted to scream at the top of my lungs. Silence only seemed to make the time go by slower. Not even Jack and I seemed to have any more to say to each other.

The Perfects stared at Jack and I the entire time. Why couldn't they just say something? The suspense plus all the sadness was going to drive me insane. I fidgeted with my hands, tapped my fingers and my foot and shifted in my chair. Lunch was taking forever.

"How about we ditch for the afternoon? I heard Mrs. Watson has put a sign out sheet up on the classroom door for anyone who needs to go home. I don't think we will be the only ones using it." Jack finally said.

"That sounds so good to me Jack. I really don't think I could take much more of this today." We signed out, along with a few others from our class and headed towards the parking lot and Jack's car. I was relieved to be out of the building. It seemed as though a great weight had been lifted off my shoulders the moment we stepped outside.

I took a deep breath and slid into the passenger seat. I turned towards Jack, who looked slightly worried. Yet when his eyes met mine his expression changed instantly.

"Are you okay?" He asked.

"I am now Jack. That was just a lot to deal with; I've never known anyone who died before. This is really not the best first experience to have. Not that any death is easy, but a family pet or even a grandparent dying at a hundred years old would be easier to understand at least. But I'm okay." And I was for the most part. I felt the same way I always had with Jack. Safe. Jack took my hand, held it tight and looked into my eyes.

"No matter who or when or why, death is never easy, you may come to understand the reasoning behind it sometimes, but it doesn't make it easy. And no matter how many times you deal with it, it just seems to get harder. The important thing to remember, is you are still here, and whoever died, Sebastian included, would want you to enjoy every moment that you are." Jack said before kissing my forehead. I wondered how many deaths he had been through, but I wasn't about to ask, not right then anyway.

We drove straight to Jack's house; it was great having a place to go without worrying about anyone else bothering us, a place we could just be ourselves, and not have to worry about keeping our voices down or being stared at. I wondered if Katie and the others stayed at school. I had been slightly surprised that they had shown up at all. But I suppose high school was their whole life. And why wouldn't it be, high school for them was, well, perfect. Or at least it had been.

Jack led the way to his front door but stood frozen on the step. The door was opened slightly. Jack sniffed the air and looked around, which threw me off guard. What was he trying to smell?

"What is it?" I asked; I figured it was better than asking what he was doing.

"Someone's been here." Jack said.

"Are you sure you didn't just leave the door open?" I knew Jack wouldn't do that, but I was hopeful, seen as it was less worrisome than the possibility of an intruder.

"No, someone has definitely been here, or is still here."

"Who?" I asked, looking around expecting to see the intruder, but desperately hoping not to.

"I don't know; I don't recognize their smell." I sniffed the air the same way Jack had just done, but all I could smell was Jack.

"Your Father maybe?"

"No, he wouldn't come here, he has no reason to. Besides I think I would remember his smell."

"What do you mean?"

"I just have a good sense of smell, everyone smells different, but I can usually remember a person's smell and recognize it."

"That must be an Aberrant thing, I don't know of anyone else that has that good of sense of smell. I know I don't, although I can smell cigarette smoke on my Dad every time he tries to sneak and have one."

"All Aberrant's are different remember; we don't all have the same capabilities. Wait here, I'm going inside to see if they are still inside." Jack said.

"Please be careful."

Jack nodded and then slipped inside the door. I held my breath the whole time he was gone, terrified that someone would be in the house and that Jack would get hurt. I assumed he still could get hurt. I paced back and forth while I waited, fighting back the urge to run inside after him to make sure he was okay. I pushed horrible visions of him being hurt by some crazy person inside out of my head. It seemed to take forever, but finally Jack came back outside.

"Whoever it was is gone now."

"That's a relief. Did they take anything?" I asked as I followed Jack inside. The house was a complete mess; books and papers covered the floor, drawers and cupboards had been emptied, their contents thrown out everywhere. However, I noticed that the TV, stereo and computer were all still there, whoever it was, wasn't there to rob the place; they must have been looking for something, which didn't make this any better at all. My heart sank, how could anyone do this to Jack?

"Jack, why would someone do this?"

"I don't know."

"You don't think it was the Perfects do you?" I couldn't think of anyone else that would do something like this.

"No. They didn't know I had anything to do with you until today, and they have been in school all morning." Jack was right. The Perfects had no reason until now to target Jack, and we had both seen them all this morning. But that meant that this was somebody new, a new threat, and to Jack.

"Who else knows where you live Jack? And would anyone have a reason to think you are hiding something?" I was nervous and angry, but most of all I just wanted to wrap my arms around Jack.

"I don't know. I have been covering my tracks very carefully. I haven't given anyone a reason to think I am anything other than normal, at least I don't think I have." Jack's eyes darted around the room desperately, when they settled on a pile of papers sitting on top of a box on the desk he froze. I recognized the box right away. Jack walked slowly towards the desk and dropped his head.

"Jack?" I was sure I knew what it meant, but I hoped desperately that I was wrong.

"Why now?" Jack said so quietly if I wasn't standing right behind him I wouldn't have heard. I stroked his arm but he pulled away from my touch. I didn't like seeing him like that, I wanted to help him, to let him know it would be okay, the same as he would do for me.

"Jack, what is it?" He took a deep breath and dropped his shoulders.

"Trouble."

Jack picked up the box placing the papers back safely inside, and then he slammed his fist down on the desk, splitting it right down the middle. I jumped back, terrified. I had never seen Jack angry like this before. He turned around to face me. His eyes were large black circles, his mouth ridged; his teeth were showing like he was snarling. I'm sure he had grown slightly again just as he had done when he explained Aberrant to me. Only this time it was slightly different, he was terrifying this time. I backed away as Jack continued to glare at me. Did he blame me for this?

"Jack, I am sorry." I said. My trembling hands reached out in front of me, I wasn't sure if I wanted to hold Jack off or pull him close to me.

"Delilah. I'm sorry." Jack blinked and took a deep breath, trying to calm himself.

"It's okay Jack."

"No Delilah, it's not okay. Somebody knows, about me. Who I am, what I am."

"Who? How did they find out?" Panic was rushing through me so fast, I wanted to grab a hold of Jack and run. Run away as fast and as far as possible. I had to keep Jack safe, but my stupid feet seemed glued to the damn floor.

"I don't know who. But I will find out." Jack said.

"I don't think that's a good idea, maybe we should call the police?" The last thing I wanted was for Jack to go searching for whoever this person was.

"No, we can't go to the police. We need to go to your house Delilah, to see how much, whoever did this, knows. To see if they know about you."

"Why would they go to my house?"

"I don't know, to look for something to tell them who you are maybe? I'm not sure, but we need to know if they did."

"What if they did go there and my parents were home?" I knew it was a long shot, my parents are never home but if they did and they were, how would I ever explain this?

"Let's go find out."

Jack and I went straight to my house. I let out a sigh of relief when I saw that the door was still closed.

"We need to be careful, just in case." Jack said. He reached for my hand and pulled me closer to him. Instantly I felt my nerves return. I pulled my key out of my pocket and slid it slowly into the lock and turned it. The click made me jump. Jack moved in front of me and opened the door slipping inside ahead of me. I could envision the look on my mom's face if she had been sitting in the living room and seen Jack come in the door. I laughed a little, silently.

Inside, everything was as it should be, empty. Not one item out of place. We searched the house any way, just in case. However, all we found was the note of the day explaining where my parents were and what time they would be home.

"Looks like we have the rest of the day and most of the night to ourselves. We should go back to your place and start cleaning up."

"No. I'm going back alone. You need to stay here. I will pick you up for school tomorrow."

"Jack, no way. I am coming with you." There was no chance I was going to stay here and worry all night about him.

"Forget it Delilah. We don't know who did this, it is far too dangerous."

"I think I do know who did this." I had a hunch at least.

"I told you, I don't think it's the Perfects."

"Neither do I. I think it's the guy from the coffee shop. Do you remember seeing him there? He always wore a hoodie and sunglasses. The last time we were there he talked to me, he said "I watch you" maybe he knows what we did, to the Perfects I mean."

"How could he? We would have noticed him at each of the houses."

"What if he just knows what we did to the school?"

"Then why wouldn't he have called the police? Besides, we still would have seen him."

Jack was right we would have seen him. But I couldn't shake the feeling that it was the same guy. I also couldn't shake the fear I had at the thought of being left alone. What if after Jack went home, the person who had messed up his house started heading in my direction?

"Jack please let me go back with you. I don't want to be left here all alone right now. What if they come here after you have gone and I'm here by myself?" Jack thought about it for a moment and then nodded. I knew he would rather keep me close by where he could protect me.

"Fine, but you have to promise if I tell you to run, hide or both you will do so without hesitating."

"I will." I said it, knowing Jack needed me to, but I couldn't promise I would do as he asked.

When we got back to Jack's house I started straightening things up right away, just the books and things I stayed away from the broken desk and papers, as Jack seemed to only be concerned about them.

"Do you think they found what they were looking for?" I asked, nothing seemed to be missing, so they were obviously not just thieves, whoever they were.

"I think so, they found evidence."

"Evidence of what, that you are Aberrant?" How could anyone know, Jack had covered his tracks down to every last detail.

"That has to be it, why else would anyone break into my house and not take anything? A burglar wouldn't leave the electronics or money behind."

"Unless something spooked them? Maybe we got here and interrupted them so they left out the back?" It was possible; doubtful but possible.

"They could have grabbed the cash, it was right on top of the desk. And why else would they care about a picture of my mother and me? Whoever did this knows my secret now. The only question is, what will they do with it?" Jack tensed up, his breathing became heavy, he was changing. Something was wrong even I could feel it.

* * * * *

2

Brother

My eyes darted around the room. All my senses began kicking into high speed. I could hear the cars passing by on the street, smell the lingering aromas of the bacon, eggs, toast and coffee that Jack had for breakfast; I was able see details of Jack that I usually miss. His eyes, how they are both perfectly identical and evenly spaced, how black his eyes were becoming, changing from the beautiful deep blue they usually were. How white and perfectly straight his teeth are. I could almost feel his movement. I knew then that I was becoming more in tune with my Aberrant side.

Jack was still getting larger, his muscles were stretching the limits of his shirt, and he was crouched slightly, ready to pounce.

"Jack. Finally I get to meet you. I am sorry about the mess that I made." I spun around towards the sound of the unfamiliar voice in the doorway. Before I had the chance to see who it was, Jack had jumped at him. He had a hold of the guy's sweatshirt around his neck.

"You did this!" Jack said as he threw the guy against the wall. "How dare you come into my house." Jack punched the guy in the face. His hand making a terrible sound as it connected.

The stranger stumbled backwards but Jack was on him again instantly, throwing punch after punch. The guy put his hands up to protect himself but Jack just threw the guy against the wall. I didn't know what to do. The guy did break into Jack's house and trashed it; maybe he did need to be taught a lesson?

"Jack wait." The guy said. But Jack just punched him again; I heard the sound of bone breaking and blood was pouring from his nose. This time the guy hit Jack back, which only seemed to make Jack even angrier.

Jack was unrecognizable, his eyes were the blackest I had even seen and he looked so full of rage. Each time he hit seemed to get harder.

"Jack, wait, listen to me." The guy said again, but if Jack heard him, he didn't listen.

"You don't come into my house, you don't come anywhere near me, or Delilah." Jack picked up part of the broken desk and threw it at the guy, knocking him to the ground. Jack jumped on top of him and punched him over and over again.

"Jack stop. My name is Isaac." He said between hits. His face was becoming unrecognizable; both eyes were swollen almost completely shut. His nose was bleeding and his breathing sounded shallow. Jack was doing more than teaching him a lesson; Jack was killing him.

"Jack, I'm your brother." What? Did I hear him right?

"Jack stop it." I said. But Jack had lost control.

"I'm your brother." The guy repeated.

"Jack! Stop it! You're killing him!" I shouted grabbing Jack's arm before he hit him again.

Jack froze. His arm was still raised ready to connect with the guy's battered face.

"Jack. Please, stop. You're killing him." I was terrified. I couldn't tell if Jack had killed him already or not. He didn't seem to be moving.

"I'm your brother." The guy moaned. Jack moved of him quickly. I was still holding onto Jack, I didn't want to risk letting him go in case he attacked the guy again.

We stood there frozen, holding our breath and watching as the guy's face slowly began to heal. I was right; it was the boy from the coffee shop.

After a few minutes he started opening his eyes, which were almost back to normal. He sat up slowly, his hands raised as if to say he was surrendering.

"Who are you?" Jack asked.

"Like I said, my name is Isaac. I'm your brother."

"I don't have a brother."

"You mean you didn't know you had a brother. You must know I have been searching for you for a very long time now, in the beginning I was careful, discreet, but I am afraid I have become rather sloppy over the years." He said, pointing at the mess that was Jack's house.

"Why did you come here?" Jack asked. I kept my eyes on the stranger, trying to decide if he was there to harm us.

"You have hidden yourself rather well, Jack, I must say. You managed to blend in remarkably. I wasn't even sure it was you at first, you are older than you were when I last saw you." Jack didn't look older since we saw this guy in the coffee shop, at least I didn't think he did. The guy started to get to his feet; Jack stepped back, guarding me from him.

"Obviously I didn't blend in well enough did I? After all, you managed to find me." Jack moved as Isaac moved, constantly keeping me behind him. Isaac had a slight limp, I remembered seeing that in the coffee shop, I couldn't help but be curious as to why.

"It was not without difficulty, I assure you." Isaac spoke with an accent, I wasn't exactly sure where he was from it was hard to place. He wore the same hooded sweater he had on when I saw him the last time, along with his sunglasses. He was taller than Jack with broader shoulders too. I would still guess he wasn't much older than Jack and I, although it would have been easier to tell for sure if he wasn't so hidden behind his sunglasses.

"Why exactly have you been looking for me, what do you want?"

"I have heard rumors that you exist, I had to find out for myself if they were in fact true. And it seems as though they are." Isaac seemed fascinated by Jack; it was quite strange. Was Isaac not Aberrant? That didn't make sense, he had to be or how else would he have healed as quickly as he did?

"I'm afraid that I don't know what you are talking about." Jack said.

"Jack please, give me some credit. I am not that naive, I found you didn't I?"

"So what? I don't know who you think I am, but I assure you, you are mistaken." Now Jack was nervous, I could feel it. "You need to get out of my house, before I actually kill you, I don't give a damn who you say you are. You don't know me. Now get out."

"Oh Jack. Jack, Jack, Jack." Isaac said, pacing a little, grinning and rubbing his hands together. "I know exactly who you are. You Jack are the son of August Bradford and Josephine Wells. You can't deny it Jack, I saw the photo of you in your mother's arms." Isaac nodded his head, indicating at the photo on the desk. I stared at Isaac, then at Jack. How could Isaac know about Jack? But wait, if that was really Jack in the photo, if it's the same photo I had found the day Jack left me here while he went to go find out the school had been closed, that would make Jack one hundred years old, at least. Was Isaac mistaking Jack for his Father or his grandfather? It seemed like the only logical explanation.

"You're wrong Isaac, sorry you went through all this trouble. The baby in the photo clearly is not me. It's my Grandfather." Ah, I was right.

"That would be remarkable wouldn't it, even for an Aberrant. To Father a child, when they are merely an infant themselves. As the woman in the photo is your mother." Isaac reached for the picture on the part of desk that was still together, but Jack snatched it up before Isaac even got close.

"Our Father never was one for following the rules now was he?" Jack's eyes blackened again at Isaac's words.

"I don't have a brother."

"I'm not surprised you don't know. August did go to great lengths to protect his little secret."

Jack didn't say a word; he just stared at the photo in his hand. Isaac suddenly looked at me, as though he hadn't even noticed that I was in the room until then.

"And who, may I ask, are you?" Jack pulled me closer to him. His body went ridged.

"She is no concern of yours. And neither am I. I don't have any family, nor do I want any; so I will tell you one last time. Get out." Jack grabbed Isaac and shoved him towards the door. "I don't want to see you again. You wasted your time coming here."

Isaac stared at Jack and I for a moment before Jack closed the door in his face. I went back to cleaning up the bookshelves; unable to think of the right thing to say so I chose not to say anything. If Jack wanted to talk about it he would. I hoped.

It took a while to clean the place up, but when we were done it looked almost the same as before minus the desk.

"Thank you for helping me clean up Delilah." Jack said as he looked at the picture he had kept from Isaac.

"Jack, do you think Isaac is really your brother?"

"I don't know, and I don't care." Jack put the picture in his pocket.

Jack picked me up for school the next morning and I was relieved to hear that Isaac had not returned to Jack's. Maybe he had realized that Jack didn't want anything to do with him and left Echo for good. Jack seemed a little unsure about my theory but he hoped I was right.

I sat in class and stared out the window, I missed Sebastian sitting next to me counting the amount of times I twirled my hair around my finger. The sky was grey and cloudy, matching my mood. Worry, sadness and guilt were over whelming me. I was worried about Jack, the Perfects and the estranged brother of Jack's. I hoped more than anything he had actually left town.

I wasn't sure whether to scream or cry when the classroom door opened and Isaac walked in. I turned to Jack who's eyes were darkening right there in class. This was not going to be good at all.

"Mrs. Watson?" Isaac asked with an irritatingly confident smile on his face.

"Yes. Can I help you?"

"My name is Isaac Bradford. I just transferred here."

"Hello Isaac, it's nice to have a new face around here. I'm afraid I'm going to have to ask you to take your sunglasses off though." I wasn't sure why, but Mrs. Watson seemed a little intimidated by Isaac. "There is an empty desk right next to Delilah, you can sit there." Putting aside that fact, Isaac shouldn't be here, in our school, in our classroom. That was Sebastian's spot. It had been filled already, it didn't feel right. I wished more than anything there was another empty seat somewhere in the classroom, or even better in a classroom in another school, in another town.

"Thank you Mrs. Watson." Isaac said with a sympathetic smile, and taking his sunglasses off as asked. Surprisingly, Mrs. Watson smiled back.

I wasn't sure what to do, I couldn't confront him right here in class. I looked back at Jack, who had his head down; I assumed he was trying his best to calm himself. There was no possible way this was going to end good at all.

Each time the classroom door opened Isaac instantly became the focus of the eyes that entered. The girls all smiled and some blushed, the boys just looked him over, probably trying to see how much competition he might be. New students didn't come to our quaint town of Echo very often, so when they did, everyone noticed.

When the door opened and the familiar sniveling of Katie entered the room, I turned to pay attention. This was not going to go unnoticed. And I didn't want to miss a single moment of the morning's entertainment.

"That seat is taken!" Katie said, eyes red and burning right through Isaac.

"Now Katie, I told him to sit there honey. This is Isaac, he is a new student." Mrs. Watson tried to explain.

"He can't sit there, that seat is taken!" Katie slipped out of Kevin's grasp and leaped towards Isaac. "Get out of that seat! That is Sebastian's seat!" Katie pounded her hands down on the desk.

"Katie stop it, come and sit down." Kevin said. Jess and Avery slipped to their seats, leaving Kevin alone to try and control Katie. I was fighting back my own tears the same as Mrs. Watson.

"But that's Sebastian's seat, he can't sit there. That seat is taken already. It's Sebastian's seat." Katie sobbed as Kevin pulled her to her seat.

"I know Katie, but you have to come sit down right now okay?" Kevin insisted.

When Kevin had finally gotten Katie under control, Mrs. Watson dried her eyes and took a deep breath to calm steady herself.

"Class, this is Isaac Bradford, he is new to Echo, so I will ask that you all show him how welcoming we can be." Isaac simply nodded at Mrs. Watson and that was it. Class went on as normal. I had expected Isaac would have been forced to stand in front of the class and introduce himself; a little humiliation or something at least would have been appreciated.

As soon as class was over Isaac got up with the rest of the students as though he had been in our class all this time. Jack and I followed him out the door, he would need to explain himself, and hopefully he would leave.

"What the hell are you doing here, Isaac?" Jack asked.

"Attending class." Isaac said.

"But why?"

"That is what you do in high school Jack."

"Seriously Isaac, why are you doing it? I thought I made myself clear last night, I don't want to see you."

"Jack, we don't always get what we want." Isaac said. "Now, where would I find our next class?" The hallway was starting to clear out, if we didn't hurry we would be late. Jack slammed his fist into the locker nearest to him and started walking down the hall.

Yesterday's sadness still lingered in the hallways. There was no laughing, running or even friendly chitchat echoing through the hallways as there usually was. Not one face was marked with a smile. The somber ambiance enabled us to walk with Isaac with only being stared at instead of being bombarded by questions, from every nosey student in the school.

All day Jack was angry, he looked like he was on the verge of losing control at any moment. Isaac wasn't helping at all; he was always there, every time we turned around.

"Do you have to sit with us?" Jack asked Isaac at lunch. I couldn't help but feel bad for Isaac, even just slightly. He was the new kid; as much as I didn't want him to be there at all, I knew what it felt like to not have any friends, or for someone to be outright mean.

"Jack." I whispered. I didn't really know what to say; was I really going to defend Isaac? I was on Jack's side, but if Isaac really was Jack's brother, then maybe they should at least talk.

"What? Don't tell me you think I should welcome my so called brother to our school?"

"I think maybe you should hear him out. What if he is telling the truth?"

"You know, I am right here, and I can hear you." Isaac said. "And this is not a conversation we should be having here."

"Then why did you come here?" Jack asked.

"To learn."

"Right."

"I don't need permission from you, or to explain myself to you. I am your brother Jack." Isaac said in a whisper, looking around to make sure no one could hear him. "I don't know how I can make you believe me, you could call August if you like?" Isaac handed Jack his cell phone. Jack just stared at it then shook his head. "The truth is Jack, if you look at my eyes, you will see they are the same as August's, the same as yours. Considering the risk of being your brother, I assure you I would not lie about it."

It seemed as though Jack was beginning to believe him; I had to admit that once Isaac had pointed out the eyes, I had trouble not believing him. They were the same amazing blue.

"So what if it is true? I don't have to like it, and I don't have to like you." Jack got up and left the lunchroom. I followed him outside into the parking lot.

"Jack wait. I know this is a surprise but maybe you could try and give him a chance?"

"Delilah, he broke into my house, and trashed it."

"I know, and that was really terrible of him to do. The guy might be a jerk, but he's your brother."

"Maybe."

"Jack look at him. You both have the same eyes, more than that, he's your brother Jack."

"Are you really that childish Jack?" Isaac said, not helping his case at all. "You have been by yourself for so long, now you find out you have a brother and you don't have to be alone."

"Maybe I like being alone."

"I have risked so much coming to find you Jack, you could at least give me a chance."

"I never asked you to come and find me, did I?"

"No you didn't." Isaac admitted.

"So why did you? After all this time, why did you bother?"

"Because I wanted to. As soon as I found out the truth I have wanted to find you." Isaac said and walked away, leaving Jack and I standing there not knowing what to say.

When the bell for the end of lunch rang, Jack and I walked inside quietly. I felt awful and I know Jack did too. He was torn between his own anger and pride and the thought of having a brother who actually looked for him. I couldn't begin to know how he should handle it, or feel; I just knew that if he didn't do anything he would regret it.

At the end of the day Isaac had disappeared before Jack or I had a chance to talk to him. Jack was quiet the whole way back to his house. When we saw Isaac sitting on the front step I was worried how Jack was going to react.

"Well at least you didn't just break in this time." Jack said as he unlocked the door and indicated for Isaac to go inside.

"Like I said before, I had been searching a long time." That wasn't exactly an apology. "I also told you I have been watching you for a while, there is something going on here that has put you and our secret at risk. I would rather not draw any unwanted attention in this direction."

"It is under control, and not your problem at all."

"Jack, you are my brother which makes it my problem. I was not pleased with August for keeping you a secret from me; things would have been different if I would have known." Jack stared at Isaac for some time; which left me feeling completely awkward just standing there.

"I dealt with the problem." Was all Jack said, but there was something more in his eyes, I hoped Isaac could see it too.

"And what about Delilah?"

"What about Delilah?" Jack asked. I was wondering the same thing myself.

"She is Aberrant is she not?" I didn't know what to say, I wasn't even sure I would be able to speak if I wanted to.

"Yes. Delilah is Aberrant." Jack said, as he gave my hand a squeeze.

"And does she know the truth about you?" Isaac said, not taking his eyes off me. I found it rather unnerving. I hated people staring at me.

"Yes, I told her everything. It appears now however, that I don't know the whole story as I thought I did." Now it was my turn to squeeze Jack's hand. Why was this guy not listening? Did he really want Jack to start hitting him again?

"You are most fortunate that Delilah knows the truth about you, and is still here, I assume that she hasn't told anyone else that she knows. You are very lucky Jack."

"I am very lucky, I know that." Jack said.

"Delilah, you are most brave to keep such a dangerous secret like Jack to yourself." I stared at Isaac; I wasn't exactly sure what he was talking about. Jack told him I was Aberrant, why wouldn't I keep it a secret? It wasn't just Jack's.

"It is Delilah's secret also." Isaac finally turned away from me, his eyes now surveying Jack once again.

"Yes, being Aberrant is Delilah's secret as well, but what about you Jack? Why exactly would she risk so much for you?"

"I would risk my life for Jack, in fact, if it wasn't for Jack, I wouldn't have a life at all!" Jack turned around quickly; I tried to read his expression, but didn't get the chance. Isaac had moved so quickly to Jack neither one of us noticed until Jack was being spun around again.

"What is she talking about Jack?"

"I really don't think this is any of your business, I don't have to explain myself to you." Jack raised his fist again ready to punch Isaac in the face. But Isaac caught Jack's hand before he connected.

"Considering the circumstances Jack I believe that you may want to reconsider that." I couldn't understand the underlying tone in his voice at all. Jack reached for my hand again and squeezed it, not so much to reassure me this time, it felt more like a warning to keep quiet.

"Delilah was having some trouble with a group of bullies at school, they attacked her. She could have fought them off, however, not without revealing her true identity. I happened to overhear the commotion and came to her rescue. We have been close ever since." From Jack's explanation, I understood Jack and I were to keep the truth a secret from everyone.

"The bullies, they were the group you were spying on at the coffee shop?"

"Exactly." Jack said.

"The ones that you have spent the last week tormenting?"

"The same one's yes. We needed to ensure that they would leave Delilah alone from now on. We didn't want them stumbling across anything by accident." Jack explained. "Wait, how did you know about that?"

"I have been watching you Jack; I needed to know you were keeping our secret, not making your presence or your identity known. Anyway, did you accomplish your goal?"

"We did yes. No one in the town suspects anything. Of course I have been keeping the secret; it was I that will be in danger if my whereabouts were to be discovered." Jack said. Isaac moved back slightly, but still kept a close suspicious eye on both Jack and I.

"Not only you Jack."

"So what are your plans Isaac, I mean now that you have found me, are you going back to tell the others? You do realize that I will not be here waiting for you when you return." Jack can't leave! Why would he? Who were the others and why would Jack leave if they came? I was panicking inside, I wanted to ask Jack my questions, and demand answers; I wouldn't let him get away without telling me everything I wanted to know. But I couldn't, not in front of Isaac.

"I don't know what my plans are yet, but rest assured I will not betray you." I felt a slight glimpse of hope.

"Why not, what's in it for you?"

"You are my brother Jack. We have the same blood."

"Not the exact same, we do have different mothers." Jack said.

"The blood that counts, the Aberrant blood, that is the same."

Jack had been on his own for so long now how could Isaac possibly think that Jack would just welcome him with open arms? Jack didn't trust Isaac, and I wasn't sure if he was willing to even try, not yet at least. Isaac just showed up, out of the blue and destroyed Jack's house; tells Jack he's his brother and Jack is supposed to just trust that? Where was Isaac's proof? How could Jack be certain they are in fact brothers?

"The kids at the coffee shop that were teasing you Delilah, what was their reasoning behind it?" Their reasoning? I wondered how to answer that, do I tell him that they thought I was a Vampire? Or just that they had picked on me for as long as I can remember, because I was different, even before being Aberrant. I didn't really think they had a specific reason for why they ever started picking on me. I don't think any bully ever has a real reason for picking their victims, except the fact they pick ones who usually don't fight back.

"One of the girls liked a boy, but he liked Delilah instead, and the girl got jealous of Delilah." Jack said. Even I knew that wasn't going to be enough of an explanation. And it definitely wasn't why they had originally started, I knew I would never know that why.

"That's it, a boy? A boy was enough of a reason for them to attack you, to the point that Jack had to save you? There must be more to it than that."

"They thought I was a Vampire." My big mouth blurted out before my brain could stop it.

"What?" Isaac said.

"They thought I was a Vampire, like the ones on the island in the 1960's." As soon as the words were out I knew I should not have said them.

"That's what they think happened? Vampires? Humans can certainly be so pathetic and predictable sometimes."

"What else were they supposed to think? Isn't it better that they think it was Vampires than anything else?" Jack was right Vampires were a great cover.

"I suppose they do keep suspicion away from us. What is it about Vampires that makes people so obsessed?"

"They make good stories, and they are usually very good looking. Not to mention rich and dangerous and some even sparkle." I knew from the look on Jack and Isaac's faces I had said that out loud. I felt my face get hot. I really needed to put a lock on that mouth of mine.

"I thought everyone from the town left after the island burned. No one talks about it now, I thought the story was long forgotten. Everyone that knew the truth died on the island that day. I was told the boats were empty when they drifted back to the main land." Jack said.

"Helen told you that didn't she?"

"How do you know Helen? Did you go to her first? Did you hurt her? I swear Isaac, if you hurt her I will kill you." I know Jack had never mentioned Helen to me before, so who was she?

"I did see Helen first, and of course I didn't harm her Jack, why would you even think that?"

"Who is Helen?" I asked, so Jack could avoid answering Isaac.

"Helen is the woman you met at the store."

"The one whose son runs the bank, and sent you cards?"

"August made it seem that Helen did a lot more for you than that Jack." Isaac said, the look on Jack's face said it all.

"Helen was the closest thing to a mother I've known. She took care of me for a long time. Then, just as August had instructed, she cared for me from a far. I came back to Echo to live alone. That was the only way to ensure that Helen and her family were able to stop moving around all over and more importantly that they were never harmed. August ensured that Helen, and her family were always well taken care of for their sacrifice."

"Your mother would have been so proud of her granddaughter. She has done a terrific job in your final aging." Isaac wasn't making sense now, how could Jack's mother's granddaughter have raised Jack? And wouldn't that make her Jack's niece, or great niece? This didn't make sense at all.

"The woman and baby in the photo, who is that Jack?" I asked, I hated feeling so confused.

"My mother and me." My mind was racing, trying to untangle the mess; the time line that didn't make any sense to me what so ever.

"Were you both dressed in some kind of costume or something?" That had to be it, one of those pictures you get done at a fair where they make you look like you're from the eighteen hundreds.

"No, we weren't in costume." Jack said, looking at the ground as he spoke. I dropped his hand and shifted in front of him.

"Jack, I have to ask you; when were you born?" I had the feeling that I didn't really want to know the answer to that question.

"I don't actually know the exact day, but it was in November, 1890."

"Jack is the baby of the family. Well as far as we know any way. I cannot be entirely certain that August doesn't have any more off spring running around somewhere." Isaac said with a laugh that only made me feel worse. 1890? If Jack was the "baby" of the family as Isaac had just claimed, then how old was Isaac, or their Father? How on earth was that even possible, and why did they look so young?

"You were born in 1890? Jack that's not possible it would make you, one hundred and twenty three years old. How exactly do you explain that not only are you still alive, but that you only appear to be sixteen?" It wasn't possible; it was madness. How could that be true at all?

"Wait a minute, I thought you were Aberrant Delilah? You should know all this," Isaac looked at me then Jack, and then back to me, making me feel even more nervous. "Unless that is, if you were born to non-Aberrant parents? You are a very rare find if that is in fact the case." Isaac waited for my answer, but I was too busy trying to come to terms with Jack's age. I nodded; I think I did at least. Isaac seemed satisfied and smiled.

"Wow, what can I say? This really is quite extraordinary isn't it? Two very rare Aberrants finding each other. What are the odds?"

"We're lucky that we did." Jack said.

Isaac paced as he let the new information sink in. I couldn't tell what he was thinking; the expression on his face was unreadable. I wanted more than anything for him to leave, so I could ask Jack my questions. I didn't want to answer anymore of Isaac's questions. I didn't like feeling like I was being grilled; Jack and I had done nothing wrong yet Isaac was making me feel like we had.

"How old are you Delilah?" Isaac asked.

"Sixteen." I said, not looking at Isaac or Jack. For some reason I felt guilty about my age.

"Only sixteen. Interesting. Has your aging slowed down any at all?"

"No, not that I have noticed at least." What kind of a question was that? It sounded ridiculous; how on earth would ones aging slowdown?

"Jack have you not explained all the important parts of being Aberrant to Delilah?" I vaguely remembered Jack saying something about a rose being frozen, but I didn't realize he meant anything at all like this.

"Jack did mention this, I just didn't really understand what he had meant at the time, not completely at least." I tried to explain; I felt the sudden need to defend Jack.

"There is no real way of knowing how much each of us will age unfortunately, very few have eventually grown to be old, the majority mature slowly until we simply seem to stop aging all together. Our Father managed to age to forty five, granted he has been forty five for almost seven hundred years now, but that is beside the point." My hand dropped from Jack's again, without realizing that I had been holding onto it. Then my whole body went numb. I was now realizing why Jack had thought I would be mad at him for bringing me back Aberrant. While he had been trying to save my life, he had made it so I would never die. I could live for hundreds of years or more. What happens if I don't ever age another day? How would I possibly explain that to my parents? I was now finding out that there was far more to being Aberrant than I had realized. I couldn't help but wondered what else there was? And for that matter, whether I was okay with being Aberrant at all? I began pacing. I reached for the comfort of my hair to twirl around my finger, but dropped my hand when I remembered it wasn't there.

"You didn't explain that thoroughly, Jack." I had to hold back my anger. Or sadness, I wasn't sure which it was exactly. Would it have been better to die on the island when the Perfects had killed me? What was going to happen to me now? What if I never aged any more than I have already? I wondered how long it would take my parents to notice I wasn't getting any older. Thankfully with my parents, I probably had ten, twenty years at least.

"I'm sorry Delilah. I never meant to keep it from you, I just wasn't sure how exactly to explain." I knew Jack was truly sorry, I also knew now was not the time to discuss this any further.

"I know you are Jack. We can talk about it later." Jack gave me a quick kiss on the cheek.

"Thank you." He whispered in my ear.

"So how is high school treating you this time Jack?" Isaac asked. This time? Jack had done high school more than once? I suppose if he is over one hundred and twenty years old, that makes sense. But why the heck anyone would want to go through the absolute torturous experience that is high school more than required is beyond me. But then it hit me. What if I didn't get any older than sixteen, there is no way I could go through high school again, I just couldn't! The first time had literally killed me!

"Fine I guess. Better now that I have Delilah with me." Jack smiled, and I couldn't help but smile back.

"I have to say, I am surprised that you came back to Echo. Although August did cover you up very well, I almost didn't even bother checking here."

"He couldn't have done that great of a job if there were rumors going around that I was alive." I offered to make something for us to eat while they talked; I was taking in every word, quite happy to be finally learning something about Jack.

"There are a lot of rumors going around all the time Jack, many of which have not an ounce of truth to them. I just happen to be worried that August was making the same mistake again, so I started following him. He was going to the bank far more than necessary. He had also taken a few extra business trips and made some secretive phone calls. When I heard him say the name Helen a few times, so I decided to track her down. When I found out who Helen was, I assumed the only reason he would have to still have contact with her, was you."

"And what about others? Was anyone else as curious as you about August's actions as you were?"

"Of course, seeing as who our Father is, but they have different suspicions than I did." I wondered who exactly their Father was, but knew now was not the time to ask.

"The last time our Father lived here he was the Sheriff. Other Aberrants had been coming to the island trying to kill you Jack, anyone that went across to the island was killed."

"That's what Katie and the others were talking about, that's why they thought I was a Vampire." I blurted out before I could stop myself.

"Back then Delilah, the town believed there was something evil on the island, it makes sense that people now believe it was Vampire's. The Sheriff's department, along with a group of volunteers went to the island to look for a group of teenagers that had been out there partying, and none of them ever came back. The island burned, along with everyone on it. Including the group of Aberrants that were trying to kill you Jack, Father told us that you had been killed on the island along with the others. He did all of that to protect you."

"If your Father was the town's Sheriff, and you both lived in town how did you and Jack not know each other Isaac?"

"I didn't live here with my Father; we all move around a lot, and often not together. It can be quite insufferable to live with someone for hundreds of years, especially your parents. We often spend decades apart." Isaac explained.

"Don't think for a second that he didn't do it to protect himself. He would be killed too if I was ever found, if that wasn't the case, he would not work so hard to keep me hidden." Jack said. Isaac glanced at him and nodded. It infuriated me to think that Jack's Father could be so callus; how could any Father not want to be a part of their son's lives, regardless of whether that son should have been born or not? How could he have left Jack without any family, especially after his mother died?

"True as that may be Jack, it doesn't leave you any less protected; and I do believe you are always well taken care of."

"Financially yes; but I have taken care of myself. I have been the one to do all the things a parent should do."

"Let's face it Jack, you are not exactly a child anymore are you?"

"You are right there Isaac, but was I ever able to be a child? I never knew any part of a normal childhood. I may not have taken myself to my very first day of school, but I did come home alone. I drew pictures of an imaginary family; I never looked out into the crowd and saw my parents watching me in the school play." My heart was breaking listening to Jack talk, I understood more than most would about absent parents, even though mine were not missing nearly as much as Jack's were. Jack and I were very much alike.

"I didn't realize you were so sentimental Jack."

"You have no idea what it was like Isaac, you had family." Jack said. I got the impression Jack wanted to say a lot more, but was holding back.

"You think August did any of those things for me Jack?"

"I'm sure you had more of a Father than you think you did Isaac, trust me." Isaac turned away from Jack, he paced slightly as though he was debating what his next move was going to be. Unfortunately, when he did speak again, the subject had returned to me.

"So why you Delilah? What would make them think you were a Vampire?"

"I don't know really, the Perfects have always bullied me." I really didn't want to have to explain this to Isaac.

"The Perfects?"

"The popular kids."

"But why? There has to be a reason that you stood out. Could they have known that you were different?" Was he serious?

"There was no reason Isaac, they were just mean kids. Every school has them, you know, the ones that think they are better than everyone else, and build themselves up by knocking others down. They are just bullies. They pick on the weaker ones, the ones who are too nice, shy, or smart to fight back." Jack said.

"So what happens with them now? Is it over, will they leave you alone, and move onto bullying someone else instead?" I hadn't really thought about that. Were the Perfects actually just going to let it go, would they just pass by me in the hallways at school and not say a word? Had Jack and I changed them, or would they really move onto someone else?

"I doubt that." Jack said. I looked up at him, eyes wide and mouth slightly open.

"Why not?" I almost whispered.

"Delilah, they're hurt, angry, and embarrassed, they will want to fight back. Especially Kevin, he won't be willing to just let this go, to let you win"

"I thought we scared them so much that they will just leave me alone. At least I really hoped we had." If they seek revenge then what? This could go on and on forever. "You would think that they would have learned their lesson."

"It may have ended if Sebastian hadn't killed himself Delilah. But not now, Katie isn't about to let that go. I don't think Kevin will just let it go either. Not after what you did to him." Jack was right. Kevin and Katie were probably plotting their revenge as we speak.

"Well now, I am most curious to know what exactly you did to the boy." Jack filled Isaac in on my gluing incident. I felt my cheeks going red as Isaac looked at me with wide eyes.

"I must say Delilah, I am rather impressed, and definitely shocked."

"Thank you." I did think it was rather clever of me.

"So what are we going to do?" Isaac asked. Jack and I stared at each other before turning to Isaac.

"Nothing." Jack said.

"You can't just sit back and do nothing Jack, surely that will not help at all."

"We just spent a week torturing them. They need to make the next move."

"Jack's right, we don't know for certain who will have any part of anything they do. We need to know what we are up against. And for that matter, what they think that they are up against. Do they still think I'm a Vampire, or am I a ghost now?"

"Maybe they just need a little bit more of a push?" Isaac took his sunglasses and hoodie off as we moved into the living room. He looked similar to Jack as far as they both had black hair and blue eyes; however, Isaac was a slightly heavier build. His face was more filled in and his muscles were evident through his shirt. If I didn't already know they were brothers, I don't think I would have guessed.

"What do mean?" Jack asked.

"Well, you must have done quite a job of torturing them if one of them killed themselves over it." At that moment my alarm on my phone went off. It was time for me to go home. I was somewhat relieved; I couldn't sit there while Jack explained what happened to Sebastian, not without bursting into tears. And with everything that I had learned today I was eager to have some time to myself to think.

"I better go." I said, jumping to my feet.

"I'll drive you."

"No, it's fine Jack. I can walk. You stay here."

"Delilah, I'm not going to let you walk home. Besides, it is getting late."

"I should get going also, it is after all a school night." Isaac said, not sounding impressed by the thought at all.

There was no point in arguing so I followed Jack to his car. We sat silently all the way to my house. I didn't know where to begin, the short ride would not be enough to cover all my questions and I was unsuccessful in deciphering which was the most important so I chose to not ask any for now.

"I think we shouldn't tell Isaac the truth about you becoming Aberrant, not just yet any way. I don't know if we can trust him." I wanted to trust Isaac; not doing so would mean Jack wouldn't be safe.

"I agree." Was all I could find to say. I wanted to tell him I was scared, angry and needed more than anything for him to hold me, but once again my mouth had failed me. Why was it that when I wanted to speak my mouth didn't seem to work, yet it has no trouble blurting things out that should not be said?

"Can I pick you up for school in the morning?" Jack asked.

"I'd like that. Jack, please be careful." Jack leaned over and kissed my cheek.

"I will, I promise." I got out of the car and headed for my front door. I waved to Jack once I had opened the door and watched him drive away.

I did my chores, took a shower, grabbed my book and iPod and went to bed. As soon as the first song started to play, my tears began to fall.

Question after question came flooding through my mind. Could we trust Isaac? Would Jack be able to have a relationship with his brother? Why did he show up now? Was I okay with the possibility of not aging? I know people pay ridiculous amounts of money to keep looking youthful, but this was way beyond that. This was immortality at its worst; the possibility of being sixteen years old forever was terrifying. How would I explain to my parents without telling them the truth, or would I just disappear one day? Even that would need some kind of explanation. And on top of all that there was the very real possibility that the Perfects were not going to leave me alone.

I was overwhelmed and exhausted; it wasn't long before I fell asleep without a single answer to even one of my questions.

* * * * *

3

Isaac

Jack picked me up for school the next morning, my parents had left for work before I had even got up, and from the new note on the fridge they wouldn't return until I was fast asleep. I was more than just a little relieved that I wouldn't have to introduce them to Jack just yet. I know this couldn't last forever, at some point they were bound to run into each other, but I was glad I had another day at least.

"Did you get any sleep?" Jack asked. I worried if I looked like I had been up all night or something.

"I slept. Why, do I look terrible?" Why else would someone ask that?

"No, that's not what I meant. I was just worried about you, that's all."

"I'm fine." I hoped I sounded believable. I wasn't fine I was nervous, scared, confused and overwhelmed by a number of feelings I was unable to identify. I had to face the Perfects again; unsure of how they would react. Isaac was hanging around and I was still uncertain whether to trust him or not and then there was the lingering non-aging issue. Really, I was anything but fine. However, actually admitting that held the distinct possibility that I may crumble in an emotionally unstable mess. So for the moment, fine it was.

"I was worried about you last night. I haven't had the chance to ask you how you are doing with the fact that Isaac showed up?" I stared at him as I asked, hoping I would know the truth from his reaction.

"I don't know what to think." He said, and his face didn't say anything different.

"Do you believe his story, that he is your brother?"

"Unfortunately I do. It really isn't something anyone would admit to if it was not in fact true. Believe me."

"Well, maybe having a brother won't be all that bad?" I smiled at him as he pulled into the school parking lot.

Isaac was sitting on the steps to the school doors, his head in a book, and sunglasses on hiding his face as usual.

"Well looks like he may be hanging around for a while." I said. Jack just groaned.

"Who is that staring this way?" Isaac asked as the three of us walked down the hallway together. I turned and stood on my tiptoes to see whom he was talking about, although I did have a pretty good idea whom it would be.

"That's Katie; the crazy one you encountered yesterday, and the Perfects." I was right. Not that I was happy to be at that particular time. They were all staring in our direction, each one of them still looking like they were seeing a ghost. I was pleased to see that Katie, Jess and Avery continued to look not quite so perfect.

Jess was sporting her wig, which made me actually look forward to Gym class. None of them looked to be wearing any makeup at all not even a little lip-gloss, which only showed clearly how little sleep they were getting. Kevin's stare didn't hold the same fear as the others did; his eyes were seeking revenge. A chill ran down my spine, I couldn't even begin to imagine the horrible things he would plot.

"Let's just go to class." Jack said, and we headed down the hall, straight in the direction of the Perfects.

I kept my eyes on Katie, partly to keep them away from Kevin, and partly because I wanted to let her know I wasn't afraid of her. And I wasn't, not with Jack and now Isaac by my side.

Katie seemed to move closer to Kevin with each step we took closer to them. Any colour she had was draining from her face; all the while she shook like she was freezing cold.

"Good morning." I said as we passed by the Perfects.

"Don't talk to me! Don't talk to me! Don't talk to me!" Katie started screaming. Everyone in the hallway turned to look at her. Kevin was trying to pull her face into his chest to keep her quiet.

"Katie stop it, be quiet." Jess and Avery were frantically trying to calm her down. We continued walking past them. I stood a little taller and was unable to stop smiling.

"She doesn't seem to perfect now." Isaac said as we passed. I couldn't help but laugh out loud. There had been more times than I could count that the Perfects had pushed me to tears from their cruelty; Karma was just being herself, and really who was I to stop it? I had simply said "good morning" what was the harm in that? I wasn't going to allow myself to feel any guilt for something that was clearly harmless. I pushed the unwanted feeling as far down as I could and pretended it wasn't there.

When the bell rang at the end of class Jack, Isaac, and I all left together. I couldn't help but notice that the Perfects didn't. Jess, Avery, Chris and Mike, left first; well ahead of Katie and Kevin. That never happens, they always stuck together, that was part of what made them so intimidating. I also noticed that they branched off once they were in the hallway. There was definitely tension or something between them.

"Trouble in paradise I see." Jack whispered.

"It sure looks that way doesn't it?" I said, barely containing my smile.

Our next class was just as strange. Avery and Jess started talking to people they hadn't really associated with before; they even switched their seats. And to make it even more bizarre, Katie didn't seem to notice; in fact she didn't seem to be aware of anything. She just stared out the window the entire time. The teacher pretended not to notice; she probably just assumed that Katie was sad due to Sebastian, which was not entirely wrong. Of course Katie was still mourning Sebastian's death, she would be for a very long time, the question was how much of what she was feeling was actually guilt? And would she be able to hold it together, or was it just a matter of time before she fell apart?

As the morning ended I found myself not dreading lunchtime for the first time that I could remember I was actually looking forward to it. I wouldn't be sitting alone anymore, I wouldn't be eating my lunch on the floor in the back hallway ever again either.

As I watched Jack and Isaac walk together, but as though they were miles apart, I knew they needed to have a chance to get to know each other. If I tried to help, maybe Jack would feel a bit more comfortable; they had been talking a little, but only about Aberrant things, maybe they needed to try talking about other things too? It was worth a try at least.

"So Isaac, what do you think of our fine school?" I asked as we sat down at a real table, in the lunchroom.

"It's definitely interesting for a small town at least. It holds all the drama of a big city; without the overflowing classrooms, and mob style hallways." Isaac turned to look at the Perfects who had rejoined at their usual table and were all staring in our direction. Jack and I looked at their table also, and they all turned away, except for Kevin. He glared at us with his evil eyes. I shivered; I could almost feel his hands on me.

"He won't even get close enough to you to try and touch you Delilah. I promise, I won't let him hurt you again." Jack reached for my hand and our fingers linked. His hand felt warm, I knew I was safe as long as I had Jack.

"They are nervous, they don't know what to think about you Delilah. And my presence has only made their uncertainty worse I assume. Have you any idea exactly what you want them to think?"

"I don't want them to think anything. I want them to be confused, scared and uneasy. Not knowing what exactly they are dealing with, is what will keep them away." I hoped at least. I didn't want them to come to any conclusions, other than to be afraid.

The rest of the week went by and we all went through the motions. There was no significant moment or event that made anything easier. Jack and Isaac were trying to get to know each other; Jack however refused to hang out just the two of them. He said he thought Isaac was more honest when I was there; but I knew that was just an excuse. Jack was shy, and he didn't trust just anyone. I wasn't sure if they would ever have a real brotherly relationship but I sure hoped they gave it their best shot.

I still found myself crying at night, assuring my parents that I was doing better every morning, and hoping that by some miracle this will all have been just a bad dream.

When the weekend finally came Jack, Isaac and I spent it just hanging out, as I am pretty sure is what normal teenagers are supposed to do. We watched movies, ate pizza and even drove to the next town to go mini golfing; only to find out that it was closed for maintenance. We went to see an old movie that was playing instead. It was nice to see Jack and Isaac were getting to know each other a bit. Not that they were close enough for secret handshakes or whatever it is that boys do, but they were working on it, and that was all I could hope for.

By Monday a whole week after the school had learnt the news of Sebastian's death, the rest of the school started to return to normal. I wasn't sure on what the appropriate grieving timeline was, or if there actually was one, but people were no longer missing from classes, the teachers were able to hold themselves together, and the grief counselors were only available on call. Even I managed to walk past his locker without tearing up.

Katie however, was still the same if anything she looked worse. Large dark circles underlined her bloodshot eyes, makeup was absent from her face and her hair was just thrown in a ponytail with no prior brushing. She had worn the same sweatpants she was wearing a few days in a row the previous week and she looked to be wearing a hoodie that had belonged to Sebastian. I wanted to take the hoodie from her; she didn't deserve to wear it, not after what she had done. But I managed to refrain. She looked a mess, so far from her usual Perfect self. Jess and Avery had returned to Perfection. Well as perfect as Jess could pretend to be while wearing her wig. I wondered how long her hair was now, she must at least have enough to spike up like they do in the military.

Katie had refused to participate in Gym class anymore, however Kevin had managed to convince Mr. Prunkle that it was fine for her to just watch. I had no doubt that they had used blackmail of some sort. To be honest she didn't look fit for doing anything except sit in a rocking chair staring out the window of the nearest mental ward; let alone participate in Gym class.

I notice Katie sitting on the bench playing with a large silver cross that hung around her neck on a chain. When she noticed I was looking in her direction, she held the cross up and pointed it in my direction. I couldn't do anything but turn away; she looked so helpless, pathetic almost.

"That was on your side Delilah. Are you paying attention?" Alison my badminton partner asked.

"Sorry." I said, even if I was paying attention I probably still would have missed it.

"Mr. Prunkle, my wrist is feeling sore." I lied, holding my wrist in a limp position. "Can I go sit out on the bench?"

"Yeah, that's fine." Mr. Prunkle said, it wasn't like he actually cared about our athletic career; not that any of us had a shot at one.

I walked over to the bench on the opposite side to where Katie was sitting, and tried my best not look in her direction. I knew that just being close to her would make her uncomfortable, but that was not my intention. I was actually a bit worried about her. I wanted to hear what Kevin kept coming over to talk to her about, it was more than obvious it had something to do with me as they both looked at me when they spoke. I didn't like not knowing what they were up to.

"She won't do anything here Katie, not with all these witnesses around. She would have to massacre the whole school. So please, just try to relax, I won't let anyone hurt you."

"She is not the only Vampire Kevin. I am telling you, Art and that new guy are Vampires too, why else would they be hanging around her?" She said, hiding behind her cross.

"I do think you're right about that, but if they were going to kill us, they would have done so already." Kevin wasn't going to help her calm down by agreeing with her.

"They are going to kill us, all of us."

"They won't, not here Katie. I have no doubt that we are safe at school." If the three of us actually were Vampires, Kevin was probably right.

"Kevin, get back on your court or you will be running laps after school." Mr. Prunkle shouted across the gym. Kevin kissed Katie on the cheek and ran back to his game, leaving Katie to tremble alone. I did feel a little bad for her she looked absolutely terrified.

I tried ignoring her even though she kept mumbling something and sobbing. It wasn't until she looked like she was going to throw up or something that couldn't ignore her any longer.

"Are you not feeling well?" I asked Katie. I know I shouldn't have. As soon as the words were out of my mouth my hand covered my lips.

"You are dead Delilah, you can't be here, you can't. You're not here Delilah, your DEAD!" Katie yelled, before running out of the gym. Jess and Avery ran after her and Kevin turned to me.

"Why are you trying to start a fight with her, you know she is upset about Sebastian. Delilah, that was really cruel." Kevin said.

"I just asked her if she wasn't feeling well."

"Just leave her alone."

"Delilah, were you being mean to Katie?" Mr. Prunkle asked. I was shocked; I had to stop myself from laughing out loud.

"No I wasn't. Like I said, I was asking her if she was feeling okay."

"Well, I suspect that Katie is just a little sensitive right now. Maybe you should go and apologize to her." Something told me that was not such a good idea.

"I think Katie just needs a minute. Jess and Avery will take care of her." Kevin said. Mr. Prunkle agreed and told the class to carry on.

Katie didn't return to gym, but she did show up to her other classes. In Math class she refused to sit in her desk, as it was only two rows behind me. In Science she left the room, four times. She just got up and wandered out the door, even when the teacher called after her, she didn't even look at him. She was falling apart, and quickly. I was quite surprised to see her at lunch, I had thought she had given up and went home. She probably should have.

"I know we can see her Kevin."

"It's not just us that can see her Katie, everyone can see her, so she is definitely here, and definitely not a ghost." Kevin said, I knew it was just another one of my visions, but it didn't matter, I knew that soon enough this would be real.

"I told you Kevin, she's not a ghost, she's a Vampire, her and the other two that are always around her."

"Look Katie, I can't explain what happened on the island, nobody can, but you have to snap out of this, people are starting to notice that something is up." Jess was no longer the second in command, she had taken Katie's place at the top, and I knew that this was something that was already happening.

"They will kill us you know, all of us." Katie sobbed.

"What are you staring at?" Jack asked, making my vision end.

"I was just seeing Katie and the others. She still believes I'm a Vampire, Jess was telling her to snap out of it."

"How did Katie seem to take to being told what to do?"

"If there is any part of the real Katie left, even just a small piece, she won't take orders well, Jack. And she also thinks that you and Isaac are Vampires too."

"I suppose that was to be expected. She must think we are recruiting Vampires or something."

"Very interesting indeed." Isaac said, rubbing his hands together and smiling.

"Hi Delilah, hi Art." Lisa Clark, a girl I had once kind of been friends with, way back in the third grade, said as she stood by our lunch table. I stared at her for a moment, totally taken off guard. What did she want? Why all of a sudden did she decide to talk to me now?

"Jack." I said.

"Excuse me?" Lisa said, thrown by my response.

"His name is Jack, not Art."

"Oh, I'm sorry. Hi Jack." Lisa replied, her face turning red, sending a wave of guilt through me.

"Hi Lisa." Jack said, giving me a questioning look.

"This is Isaac. Isaac, Lisa." I said quickly.

"Pleased to meet you Lisa." Isaac said, taking Lisa's hand and kissing the back of it. What the hell? Did he forget what century he was in? Lisa's face went redder still, and she giggled.

"It's nice to see your face... I mean your face here...I mean it's nice to see a new face here, in Echo. We don't get many new comers." Well that was a mess, I couldn't help but feel bad for her, she had embarrassed herself so badly.

"It's nice to come to a place filled with so many beautiful girls." Isaac said. Oh brother! I rolled my eyes this guy was something else. He was so very different than Jack. Thankfully.

There was a commotion coming from the direction of the Perfects table, I looked over to see Kevin practically dragging Katie out of the lunchroom.

"I better go, my friends are waiting. It was nice to meet you Isaac." Lisa said before she scurried back to her friends.

"What the hell was that all about?" I blurted out.

"She was just being friendly Delilah, it is okay to have friends." Jack said.

"I know, but I haven't had any before, why now?"

"Maybe she wants to be a better person now, you know death can change people."

"Yeah trust me, I know that all too well, remember?" Jack squeezed my hand, hard. I knew right away I had said the wrong thing.

"What do mean by that Delilah?" Isaac asked.

"Well...hum...look at Katie, and the others. Sebastian's death has completely changed them." Isaac stared at me, as if trying to see if I was lying. I turned away quickly. "What happened at the Perfects table? I saw Kevin hauling Katie out of the lunchroom."

"I didn't notice." Jack said.

"I didn't see either, I was too busy looking at your friend. Jack's right you know, you shouldn't be so mean." I wasn't mean, well I wasn't trying to be at least. I may have been rude, but not mean.

"I will try not to be so shocked next time someone is nice to me. If there is a next time." But I was shocked when the next nicety happened right after lunch on our way back to class. First Cassie, then Hannah, both fairly popular girls; saying hi to the three of us in the hallway. Maybe people were changing; maybe Jack was right and Sebastian's death had impacted people. I did a better job of being nice back at least. I even noticed a smile was on my face as we entered the classroom. It quickly vanished however when I saw the cloves of garlic covering the top of my desk, and only mine.

"Really? That's the best they can do?" I groaned as I grabbed the garbage can and cleared them using my book, the last thing I wanted was my hand smelling of garlic for the rest of the day.

"They must watch a lot of movies." Jack said shaking his head.

"Yeah, and from the looks of it, they believe everything they see." I laughed a little it was kind of funny to think they actually thought that they would scare me off with cloves of garlic. What would they try next taking me out in the sun to see if I sparkle?

The afternoon continued with people being nice and garlic turning up all over the place. That was going to get really annoying, not to mention smelly. I had hoped the teachers would have put an end to it quickly; but as per usual they carried on as nothing was happening. Could they seriously not smell it? The whole school was beginning to reek of garlic. I was beyond relieved when the final bell of the day rang.

"Shall we head back to my house?"

"I need to run home first today Jack, my mom didn't leave a note on the fridge this morning. They might actually be home tonight." I hated the thought that I would have to spend the evening at home with my parents. I had become too accustomed to them being gone every night. We knew it wouldn't last forever, but I was still frustrated.

Isaac was just about to walk away to go wherever it was he was staying.

"Hey Isaac, do you want to hang out with Jack and I?" I knew should have checked with Jack first, but isn't it better to ask for forgiveness than permission? Besides, if I waited for Jack to make extra effort with his brother, I would be waiting for ages.

"I don't want to impose."

"You wouldn't be, right Jack?" I smiled at Jack, and eventually he did smile back.

"Right. We are just hanging out, but you are welcome to come too." My smile spread across my face, and I gave Jack a quick hug.

Jack pulled up outside my house and I was horrified to see both my parents in the driveway unloading groceries from the car. My mom's mouth almost hit the floor when she saw me in the passenger seat of Jack's Mustang. I wasn't sure if she was mad or surprised. I slid out of the car, smiling weakly at my mom, who instantly put the bag down and headed towards us. This was it my freedom was over. I was going to be yelled at, grounded and humiliated in front of Jack, and even worse, Isaac. Why did I have to be nice and invite Isaac along, today of all days?

To my surprise and horror, Jack turned off the car and got out, followed by Isaac. What the hell were they doing? Why didn't they do what most normal teenage boys would do and drive away as fast as possible? That's right, I almost forgot, they weren't normal teenage boys were they; they were ancient, centuries old teenage boys; who believed in manners and courtesy and all that. Oh this wasn't good, not good at all. I was becoming overwhelmed with panic; maybe I should be the one to drive away as fast as possible. But it was too late, damn.

"Hello, Mrs. Martin, my name is Jack Bradford and this is my brother, Isaac." Jack said confidently and politely as he shook my mother's hand.

"Hello Mrs. Martin." Isaac said as he did the same. My mother glanced at me. I couldn't read her expression. I wondered if she could read mine.

"Hello, Jack, Isaac, it's nice to meet you both. Do you go to school with Delilah?"

"Yes mom, we are in the same class." Did she really think I would just take rides from random boys? Geez, I thought she knew me a bit better than that.

"Well it's nice to finally meet some of Delilah's friends. Won't you boys stay for dinner? I'm making spaghetti." What alternate universe had we suddenly driven into? I had never had a friend over, let alone one that my mother extended a personal invitation to; much less a boy or two. I hoped they said no, it would be just awful to have them drilled by mother; she can be a bit overbearing, nosy, bossy, snobby, I really could go on.

"Thank you Mrs. Martin we would love to." Isaac said, smiling at my mother. "Can we help you with the groceries?" He asked, full of charm. My mother smiled and I think she even blushed slightly. I stared at Isaac, trying to hold back the overwhelming urge I had to punch him. This was going to be dreadful, I could just see it.

My Father came out of the house to collect more bags, but Isaac and Jack were already carrying the rest of them; double the amount of bags most people could manage at one time. My mother introduced them and they effortlessly adjusted the bags so that they could shake hands.

"You two are certainly strong young men." My Father said clearly impressed, as they headed for the kitchen. I followed behind them, trying not to die of embarrassment.

"So have you three been friends for long? Delilah doesn't talk about her friends much." My mother asked, beginning with her inquisition.

"We've been friends for a while now." Jack answered.

"What do your parents do for work?" My mom asked.

"Our Dad travels a lot doing a lot of charity work, helping children in third world countries. Teaching English, building wells, hospitals, schools, that kind of thing." Isaac nailed it, as if he knew my mother like the back of his hand. Third world countries, teaching, building anything, was definitely not my mother's forte, or my Father's for that matter, they would have a hard time knowing if he was telling the truth or not.

"Well that is truly admirable work, you boys must be very proud of them?"

"Yes mam, very proud." Isaac responded.

"And what about your mother?" My mom asked.

"Our mother died when I was very young, Mrs. Martin." My eyes nearly popped out of my head, I couldn't believe Jack had said that.

"I'm so sorry to hear that." My mother said, and then there was an awkward silence, which thankfully my Dad finally broke.

My mom started to cook dinner, with the help of Isaac, while Jack and I set the table and my Dad went to change. It felt odd having Jack and Isaac over while my parents were home, let alone all chatting and making dinner together. My mom seemed totally different. I couldn't help but wonder if this had anything to do with Sebastian's death, or if she was just so shocked that I had friends.

She asked them about their plans for the future, which was strange, as I don't remember my mom ever asking me what I planned to do with my future. Isaac was brilliant, he had an answer for everything, and he never even hesitated. I wondered how much of what he was saying was true. Had he really lived in London, South Africa, Hong Kong and the many other places he talked about? Had he actually helped build an orphanage, and a school? He really didn't seem like that type, but then again I didn't really know him.

"I really haven't the slightest clue what I plan to do once I graduate. My Father believes I will go to Medical School. But I am not too sure." Isaac said. My mom's eyes widened.

"A doctor, hmm now that would be a truly admirable career choice." My mom was practically falling all over Isaac. I couldn't see Isaac as a doctor; I didn't think he would have the right bedside manner.

"And what about you Jack, what are your plans?" My Father asked.

"I hadn't really thought too much about it."

"Well what is your passion? Everyone has one, and I always thought that was the best place to start." I had never heard my mother talk like that, I wondered what they thought my passion was. And if they knew, hopefully they would share the info with me, as I had no idea.

"I'm not sure." Jack looked really uncomfortable; I wished my parents would go back to Isaac.

"What are you good at?"

"Mom, please."

"It's okay Delilah," Jack smiled. "I like to draw, so I wouldn't mind perusing that."

"Jack is actually an amazing artist." I said smiling, it wasn't anything like being a doctor but it was still pretty great.

"That's a talent that not many have, but many wish they did." My Dad said.

I was glad when dinner was finally ready. At least eating would be a good distraction.

"This is delicious dear." My Father said, in between checking his phone and eating. Which reminded me, why had my mom not checked her phone once yet? It wasn't normal for her to be away from her phone for so long.

"Did you lose your phone mom?"

"Of course not Delilah, why, did you try calling earlier? I don't think I missed a call." My mom pulled her phone out of her pocket to check it.

"No, I was just noticing you haven't been on it since I got home that's all." My mom's face went slightly red, something was up, I could tell, she never blushes.

"What's wrong?"

"Nothing Honey, I just thought we would have a nice dinner with your friends. In fact, Jason, put your phone away." She ordered my Dad, who listened and put his phone in his pocket. Something was definitely wrong, had my mom just called me Honey? The last time she had called me Honey was when she found out about Sebastian.

"Okay, seriously, what is it?" My mom glanced at my Dad, and then smiled.

"We will talk about it later, it's nothing to worry about." No, this was a big deal I could feel it.

"Now I'm worried, please what is it?"

"We can go if you need to talk." Jack suggested, standing up.

"No, no it's fine, really. It's silly, a misunderstanding I'm sure."

"Then just tell me." I was getting angry now; this was not like my parents at all. Staying home, making dinner, no phones, I thought I would explode if they didn't tell me soon.

"The Sheriff has been calling for over a week now. It seems there was a note found on that boy who died."

"Sebastian, the boy who killed himself." I blurted out. I stiffened, held back the tears, and was thankful for Jack reaching for my hand under the table.

"Yes. Well it seems as though you were mentioned in the note, and the Sheriff wants to talk to you about it. I have explained that it's a misunderstanding, I have even conversed with a lawyer. There is nothing to worry about." My head started spinning. Why would the Sheriff want to talk to me? Why didn't Jack and I take the second note with us? Why did my mom speak to a lawyer? Then panic set in, what did Kevin put in the second note? Did he try to pin Sebastian's suicide on me?

"We will go talk to the Sheriff with you Delilah, I assure you, you have nothing to worry about." My Father said, but I just stared at him blankly. Then I remembered. They wrote that note when they thought I was dead, they had pinned my murder on Sebastian.

"What did you mean when you said the note mentioned me?" My mother shifted uncomfortably in her chair. She glanced at Jack and Isaac, then at me. I gave her a nod to go on.

"The boy had confessed to killing you." My mother said. I could feel Isaac staring at me, but I refused to meet anyone's eyes.

"Well that is just ridiculous he obviously didn't, I'm right here; alive and well."

"And that's exactly what we have explained to the Sheriff. He knows you're alive, he has seen you. He just would like to get a better understanding of why the boy would confess to such a thing in a suicide note. I think his parents would really like to know too."

"But I don't know why he would say that." I did know why, but I couldn't tell anyone, not without exposing Jack, Isaac and myself for being Aberrant. I wouldn't do that.

"I'm sure the Sheriff just needs to hear that from you Delilah, a formality type thing." Jack said. I was so thankful he was there.

"Jack's right Honey. Like I said, there is nothing to worry about." My mom smiled at Jack, who nodded back.

The dinner conversation didn't quite return to normal after that. We all finished rather quickly and my parents offered to clean up if we wanted to hang out. Again that was not normal behavior for my parents at all. However I had never brought friends home before, so I suppose I don't really know what their normal behavior is in this kind of situation.

We told my parents we were going to go for a walk. As soon as we were out of ear shot I started to panic.

"What am I supposed to say to the Sheriff tomorrow Jack?"

"Just explain that you have no idea why he would confess to that. Like you told your parents."

"Don't you think he is going to question a little more than that? I mean he confessed to a murder of someone who isn't dead and then killed himself."

"That is a bit strange don't you think? I mean why would he do that?" I didn't like the tone of Isaacs' voice.

"I don't know." I said. I didn't know what else to say. I couldn't remember how much Jack had told him and I was too busy panicking over talking to the Sheriff.

"I don't think he would have done that at all, it seemed to me that he was actually trying to help you that night." I turned to stare at Isaac, how would he know that? "I mean he couldn't save you in the woods, because he wasn't there, but around the bonfire he definitely seemed like he was on your side."

"How would you know that?" Jack was right in Isaac's face, and he was angry, I could tell.

"Jack please I told you I was following you."

"Following me yes, but you never said anything about following Delilah."

"I wasn't really following her, I thought you would have shown up there to. I thought you were going to do some kind of anniversary sacrificial celebration. And I was partially right. I didn't realize at the time that Delilah was Aberrant, how could I? I mean she couldn't defend herself from that sleaze bag in the woods."

"It was you? You were the one that pulled Kevin off me and threw him against the tree." I wasn't sure if I should be thankful that he saved me, or angry because he didn't stop them from killing me.

"I thought you were human. I'm not against killing humans, and if humans want to kill each other then who am I to stop them, but what he was trying to do was different." I shivered at the memory, now it was even worse; Isaac had been there, and seen what Kevin was doing. I felt humiliated all over again.

"You were there on the island that night, you could have saved her, but you didn't. You could have stopped it all, but you didn't you just watched." Jack was getting angrier; I was worried he was going to start hitting Isaac right there on the street.

"I was only there for a while, then I got bored and left. Like I said, I thought she was human. I didn't want to get involved. You can't tell me you would have done any different, you wouldn't have risked exposing yourself for a human would you Jack?" Jack started to relax. He moved back to my side and took my hand. He turned his back to Isaac, not wanting to look at him or answer his question.

"All you have to do tomorrow is stick to the story, you have absolutely no idea why he would say that. There is nothing they can do, Sebastian killed himself, you are alive, and they have no reason to believe there is any more to it than that." Jack squeezed my hand.

"You're right. Besides, my mom won't stand for him badgering me any way." I tried to smile. But I knew it wasn't going to be that simple. Kevin's Dad was the Sheriff, what if he was just like his son, with the same arrogance, the same slimy personality? What if he had spoken to Kevin already and Kevin had given him reason to believe I was somehow responsible for Sebastian's death? I wish I knew how to force a vision; it would be rather helpful at that moment.

"Just try not to worry, everything will be okay." Jack whispered and kissed my cheek.

After Jack and Isaac went home my parents continued to assure me I had nothing to worry about.

"It's okay Delilah, like we said he is just doing his job, that's all. The lawyer assured me there were no signs of foul play or anything like that at the scene."

"I'm fine mom really. I'm just as confused as they are about the note. I mean clearly I am not dead." Clearly. I thought to myself.

"We will go first thing in the morning and get it over and done with. Both Dad and I will come with you, and we have the lawyer on standby. Just in case. You should get some rest, try not to worry." If anything was going to make me worry, it was my mom telling me not to worry.

* * * * *

