

Copyright © 2018 by Lynn Achieng'.

All rights reserved.

No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems without the written permission from the author, expect for the use of a brief quotations in book review.

Dedication

To Redsan and Diamond Platnumz for being an inspiration of Nick Kenya.

PROLOGUE

Rumors. They are such fickle things.

Most of the time the people who start them do not even know what they are talking about or who they are talking about. They just hear something from someone, who heard it from someone else and as they relate the story they add a little bit to it.

There was such a rumor about a man who lived in the shadows. No one knew where he came from or even where he lived, but if you pissed off the wrong person he would come for you. People lived in fear of this one man, both the rich and the poor.

If you wanted someone dead, you would just seat at a bench in the park, leave a picture and twenty four hours later the person was gone. Then another twenty four hours later you would be dead too.

As they said, you go on a journey of revenge, better dig two graves.

For years the police tried to catch him, people set up traps, but no one ever caught him. He was like the wind, you hear about it, you feel it drifting on your skin but you can never ever see it or catch it.

When they failed to catch him, voids started opening up and people do not like empty voids. So the people started speculating; maybe he was a ghost, maybe the bench in the park had magic powers, or maybe it was just bad karma at work. Others said that he was the invincible man, others called him the night drifter.

What they all seemed to agree on was the fact that he was dangerous and not someone to be messed with. People were scared to die, some would leave the names on the bench, barricade themselves in their houses or flee the country, but forty eight hours later they were dead.

It was a death trap.

Then one day he was just gone. No one knew what happened to him.

Pictures kept piling up on the bench, drifting with the wind, years came and went.

People forgot.

She didn't

CHAPTER ONE

One of the benefits of being a cop is that you get to shoot bad people.

When people piss you off you can shoot them and write it off as a gun misfire or even just a bad break; just kidding.

What she loved about being a cop was the fact that in law there was no grey area, it was either white or black, you were wrong or you were right. She believed in the law, she loved the law and she upheld the law until two years ago when everything fell apart.

It was a normal evening for her, she was in the precinct joking around with her fellow officers, waiting for a call from the dispatchers when one came in. The fact that the call was about a DOA, dead on arrival, did not raise any alarms to her, she got to deal with those every day since she was promoted to detective last year. She had seen enough bodies to loss her faith in humanity and reinforce her faith in law.

The first time she saw a dead body she puked so hard and quit eating meat for about two months. With time the sight of dead bodies did not make her puke her guts out, thou some of them smelled pretty nasty, she developed an iron stomach.

Or so she thought until she saw her.

When they arrived at the river she could smell death, even thou the aroma was not all over the place yet she had come to know the smell. She came to feel death and she knew even before she walked on scene that this was not going to be pretty.

She stood by the river and took some pictures for the lead detectives, when she was done she gave permission for the coroner to pull the body out of the water.

She still did not feel any alarm and no panic button was pushed yet. The coroner used a fork lift that went under the body and clamped it, to lift the body from the water. He did not want to lose any forensic material even thou the water had washed off most of it, yet the water was too deep he could not swim to the body.

They lifted the body, which was definitely a woman in a silver dress with a slim petite body. Something familiar lurked at the edges of her memory and she pushed it away.

There was no way what she was thinking was real. When she was done she would call Lisa and they would laugh; over wine; about the fact that when she saw the dead body she thought of her.

With a smile she went to help the coroner gently remove the body that was face down from the crane, after they had placed her gently, Lucias, the coroner asked her to stick around and help him flip the body.

He handed her some fresh gloves and she threw the one she had been wearing out, in position she started counting, "One, Two, Three," Then they flipped her over.

At first her attention was pulled to the stomach region which was curved open, probably by the fish and the guts were hanging open, that did not even make her feel like buffing. It was gross but she had seen worse.

Her eyes moved upwards and that was when she saw the face and everything she had eaten came crawling back coated in acid. She was not even sure if she turned away before she started buffing, or if Lucias was the one who took her by the shoulder and turned her away.

So many times she had broken news to the loved ones about their deceased loved ones. So many times she had watched shock and denial ran over their faces as the refused to accept what had happened.

So many times she had watched them go deeper and deeper into the dark abyss sinking, a part of them dying with the people they loved.

Death did not only take those it claimed, to some it took the living too.

She never thought that one day that would be her.

She and Lisa had been best friends since she was just ten years old, they had met on the school playground. She was not a super open person so most of the time she would play alone or hide somewhere in the field reading a story book she stole from the class library. One of those days she was hiding and reading a story about how the tortoise outsmarted a rabbit when the new girl crawled into her reading space and asked, "What are you reading?

"The tortoise and the rabbit story."

"Can I join you," she said as she sat next to her. She then turned around and looked at her, "We are going to be best friends."

And they had been best friends since then, being an only child, Lisa had been more than her friend, she had been her sister.

The last two years she had gone through all those phases of mourning, when they realized that Lisa had been murdered and that it was not fish that had ripped her guts out a man hunt for the perpetrator was launched. Even though she was not technically allowed on the team, she led it, looking into every lead.

Then one day, out of desperation and with no evidence, she arrested the right guy, in the wrong way and then he walked.

As he left the precinct he turned around to smile at her and something died inside her that day.

The law she trusted and upheld let her down.

She thought about going out there and hunting him down but she could not just do it herself. Her moral compass was still too strong, that was why she was here today.

Seating on a bench.

Clutching a photo.

Hoping he would come for it.

As the wind rushed by, she sat there thinking about how stupid this idea was. He had not killed anybody since five years ago, people had forgotten.

Maybe it was just a stupid myth and a rumor.

Firming her resolve, she had to try, if in twenty four hours he was not dead then she was going to shoot him herself. It would be a sign. Either way he would be dead and twenty four hours later, she would be dead or in jail.

Looking at the picture one last time, she stood up, and picked up a little rock. Turning around she placed the picture on the bench and anchored it with a rock. Wiping a tear that had seeped out she thought, Lisa, I am doing this for you.

She then turned around and left.

From the bushes he watched her, when she left he sneaked out and took the picture.

It felt good to be back.

He smiled, fresh blood was calling.

CHAPTER TWO

TWENTY FOUR HOURS LATER

HOUR ONE

Lacey was home eating noodles and watching the television waiting for any news; she was on her two months leave so she did not have to be in the office anytime soon. Which was fine with her because she did not want to receive this news in her office because all eyes would turn to her.

Ever since she had left the picture on the bench something inside her settled, she had been on edge and restless the last two years since she fished Lisa from the river. She knew it was the right thing to do, so she had made the decision and she had done it.

She had two plans, Plan A, incase everything the myth said was true then Perri Granger would be dead in the next twenty four hours and she would be dead twenty four hours later. As an officer she had used her resources to look into the myth and found out that somehow it had been true. The pattern was there, she could not ignore it and she was fine with it, she had made her peace with it.

Plan B, was that if plan A did not work, then she would walk up to Perri Granger, Taser his ass then subject him to the most horrifying two hours of his life before shooting him between the eyes. She was fine with this option too thou she was not looking forward to it, torturing people was not her cup of tea. But for Lisa she would do it.

With both options there was no way she was surviving past twenty four hours. If she killed Perri herself she could not live with the guilt or survive jail as a cop. She knew what she had to do.

There was just one plan she was sure of, that was the plan on what to do it the last twenty four hours of her life. She had drawn up a bucket list of things she was going to do before she died.

She was fine with that too and she was going to enjoy the fuck out of life before it was taken away from her. Everyone she loved was dead, her parents and her friend, finally she would join them and maybe they can live happily ever after.

The words breaking news flashed on the screen and even before it started she knew he was dead.

It was not a sixth sense or anything, it was more of a feeling.

A dark and heavy feeling that the angel of death was watching her.

"Earlier this afternoon, the body of millionaire Perri Granger was found floating in the river Nairobi, he was a suspect in the murder of Lisa Mandy who was also found floating in the river, in this exact day two years ago. The case against him was dismissed due to lack of evidence and the arresting officer was demoted to desk duty. As we stand here today we ask is this murder or karma or did he suddenly have an attack of consciousness and take his own life?...."

As the news reporter droned on and on she blanked out and at the back of her head she heard a clock start ticking down.

The ringing of the phone startled her out of her funk and before she picked up she knew it was Nathan, he former partner.

"Hey Lacey, what did you do?" He asked with a serious tone as soon as she picked up the phone.

"I have been home all day, I did not do anything," she could trust Nathan.

"Yah, that's not how it seems to the leading detective, they all seem to think you had a hand in this somehow."

Sighing, "Please, just buy me twenty four hours so I can prove that I had nothing to do with this."

"Okay but that is not going to be easy," Nathan said, "from my point of view the bastard suddenly grew a conscious and jumped off the river."

She knew he hadn't, people like Perri with more money than they knew what to do with, did not just grow a conscious.

"Thanks Nathan."

After a pause, "Take care of yourself there Lacey girl and get yourself a lawyer."

Wiping a tear that had leaked out, "I will." Then Nathan cut the call.

She was not going to cry, she had twenty three hours left to leave and she was not going to waste a second.

Picking up her guitar and the case, she threw one last look at her house before she closed the door.

Twenty three hours and counting.

CHAPTER THREE

HOUR TWO

Nick.

Nick Kenya was a simple man and that was what he attributed his success in a dying business to.

He knew what he needed, he knew how he needed it, how to get it and he worked his ass off to achieve it. When he started out his music career he had this fire in his belly and a view that the world owed him because he was talented. He soon came to realize that many people were talented, many people thought the world owed them so they sat on their asses and waited for it to deliver.

None of them got what they wanted.

So he studied the trends and tweaked it a bit, that got him an edge and soon he was among the top selling artists in the world. When his music started picking up he established his recording studio and music label. Music was full of people who were talented and those who thought they were talented, that plus his name on the door, drove a lot of people into his studio every day. He did not have to hustle anymore, all he had to do was make decisions that affected his business and he was good.

Yet he was restless, his success had become his prison.

When you become known for a certain way of music, it becomes your brand and somehow since it works you stop becoming innovative. That was what happened to him, sometimes at night when he lay in bed he wished that he could play the type of music he played when he was younger and no one listened to him. That music had soul, the music he played now was just an algorithm. The money and the women that came with music, somehow became stale.

One day he had tried to broach the subject with his manager who had laughed so hard he had almost peed himself, "why would you mess with a good thing? This works, stick with it."

He hated the son of a bitch, but he was efficient so he let him stick around.

That was why this morning at six as he was rushing to a meeting from a company based in the United States, when a strange woman approached him and asked him if he wanted to run away he did not think twice just followed her.

At first he thought she was one of those upcoming singers who were always trying to pitch some music to him to produce without paying. She had the looks for it, so when she had asked him, "Wanna get out of here?"

At first he was a little bit shocked then it just felt right.

Instead of dropping everything and running, screaming like a little girl for help, he actually dumped his suitcase, phone and laptop by the side of the road and followed her willingly.

He was just tired of pulling every fake thing together.

She might be leading him to his death or even just down a rabbit hole with no exit, but he did not care anymore.

They walked for about twenty minutes, like she was testing if he was actually for real, when they got to a grey Subaru where she opened the door for him. He got in, she went around to the driver side door and got in then shut the door.

"Seat belt," she said as she tied hers, her voice was soothing, reminded him of his mother's voice as she sang him goodnight every night when he was young.

He tied his seatbelt, turned around to ask her, "Where are we going."

"To the gun ranges, we are going to shoot some guns." She said as she started the car, she cocked her eyebrow as if asking him if he had any objections.

He just shrugged.

This felt right.

As the young kids would say, he was down for whatever.

"You follow strangers around often?" She asked as she pulled away from the curb.

"Yah every single day of my life," he said trying to smile. He was just not feeling it. He hoped that whatever crazy expedition she was planning, he would at least get to enjoy himself before he went back to his stupid stifling life.

This was just a break.

He would give himself twenty four hours to clear his head then get back on game.

He had earned it.

Twenty two hours and counting.

CHAPTER FOUR

HOUR THREE

That had gone easier than she thought it would. She had one of the best musicians, and her biggest star, in the world in her car with her. She had thought she would have to kidnap him and try to convince him to hang out with her for the next twenty four hours. She had her taser in her back pocket, some masking tape in the trunk and some rope just in case the masking tape did not do the trick.

When she saw him thou all those plans went out the window and she had just asked and to her surprise he had agreed to come with her.

She was not looking a horse's gift in the mouth that was why she was not going to ask him why he agreed to join her. It did not matter, she was going to have the best day of her life and what better way than to enjoy it with her idol.

"Now that you have kidnapped me can I at least get to know your name?" his voice still had the same effect on her, in that it made her want to remove her panties and give it to him so he could see just how turned on she became at his voice. She could not count how many times she had fucked a guy while they listened to his music, she would always lie that it was mood music but truthfully she came to his voice. To imagining him doing nasty stuff to her while some poor sap tried really hard to go to town on her.

She was so going to hell for that.

"Hey! You decided to join me by yourself."

Smiling, thou his smile did not reach his eyes and she wondered what made him sad and how she could fix it.

You are not here for that, she told herself.

"I'd still like to know your name."

"I am Lacey. Lacey Knight."

Humming slowly, "Mmh, that suits you, you seem like a whimsical person."

If only he knew he was talking to the girl who had a schedule for each schedule she had.

"Yah I am whimsical, that is why I drive around with super rich and super famous guys," she said as they pulled up to the gun ranges. She looked at the timer, they had forty five minutes to spend here before they left for the next thing on her list. She was so happy she would not have to spend a lot of her time trying to convince him to join her.

He made a non-committal voice at the back of his throat as he got out of the seat and started coming round to open the door for her. When he got there she was already out of the car and was locking the doors behind her.

"Let's go shoot some stuff," she said with a high fist pump, keep your spirits up, she thought.

"Why do I feel like I am going to be used for target practice." He said as he turned to lead the way.

She just laughed lightly and enjoyed the view of his butt as he moved.

He had a very nice butt, as she looked at it all she thought about was holding onto it as he pumped into her. She felt herself getting wetter.

Concentrate, she told herself, do all the things you love, he will definitely be on the menu today.

With that thought in mind she felt herself brighten up a bit.

Death was definitely coming for her, there was no need for her to get all sad and grumpy about it.

When they got to the front desk she went ahead, "Lacey Brighet, here for some training." Cops were registered and got to shoot the guns for free, civilians had to pay, but since she was walking in with Nick that would not be a problem.

"You are well known around here?" He asked in that low tone that did not help with her situation of trying to concentrate away from him.

Shrugging, "I like shooting stuff."

They were shown to the shooting arcade and handed the pistol they had asked for and some ear muffs, making it clear they could not talk from there on out. She had her gun strapped on her thigh since she was wearing a dress but she did not want to use it, she was not ready for Nick to know she was a cop, yet.

"You okay with that?" She asked him pointing at his gun, maybe he did not know how to shoot but she sincerely doubted that. He looked like a man who could handle himself in any situation.

"Am good," He said as he put his ear muffs on.

From then on it was a competition to see who had the tightest grouping. They even joined a couple of guys who were going into a kill house training, that was where a bunch of signs popped at you and you had less than a millisecond to decide whether to shoot or not.

She shoot a woman holding and he shoot a boy by the side of the road.

It was not accurate but they did pretty well.

She loved shooting guns, pulling the trigger made her feel powerful. Shooting today gave her such an adrenaline rush and after the kill house challenge she felt so pumped, like she was ready to take on the world.

The alarm sounded just as they were laughing and handing off their guns back to the office manager and her heart sunk.

Twenty one hours to go.

She was ready to die, but she had this feeling at the back of her mind like she would loss so much in her life. Like a husband and kids and love.

She pushed that feeling far far back into her mind, "Who is ready for round two of the day." She asked feeling pumped when they got back to the car.

"What is in store for round two?"

"Rock climbing," she said smiling at him.

"Oh crap."

She smiled.

Twenty one hours and counting.

CHAPTER FIVE

HOUR FOUR

To say that Nick did not like heights was like saying the Nicki Minaj Anaconda video was not famous.

Of course it was famous, it had a lot of nudity and big butts in it.

He did not remember when he started having a height phobia, it was not like he had been forgotten on top of a building as a kid or that he had gone rock climbing and fallen down.

He just knew the first time he was high up a building and he could not see down that he hated it.

Most managers have their offices at the top most floor, to show power and prominence. Him he placed his office right at the ground floor and had his employees bring him everything he needed right there. People might be growing weed up stairs, he was not curious to find out.

"I will just support you as you go up," He said to her.

"Come on where is your team spirit and sense of adventure?"

"It's right up there with my will to live," he said and he could have sworn he saw her flinch but it was just a micro second then it was gone.

"I will spot you I will not let you fall," she said.

Laughing, "Falling is not my problem, fainting up there and looking like a fool is."

"Who cares what other people think."

"I own and run a multibillion dollar company, image is everything in that kind of world."

Retrieving a piece of paper and pen from the dashboard, she wrote something on it, using the steering like a desk. She then handed him the paper, "Today I give you a twenty four hour pass, and you can do whatever you want to do."

Laughing down at the paper he was holding written twenty four hour pass, "are you serious?"

Nodding her head, "yes I am serious, imagine you were dying tomorrow," like I am, she did not add that part, "Won't you like to know that you at least tried to conquer your fears." They pulled into the parking lot of the Upper Hill rock climbing reserve.

"Yah let's do this," he said all jazzed up and it made her want to kiss him.

Looking at the timer, "Okay we have thirty minutes then we have to bounce."

"What is with the timer?"

Being evasive, "We have got a lot of stuff planned out for today, I just want us to cover them all."

She had plans for each of the twenty fours she had left, thou she was not going to tell him that.

Taking out her wallet she gave him some cash, "Just go in and book us the equipment, I will be in in a minute."

Looking sheepishly, "I could probably pay for this."

Patting him on the shoulder, which made her want to rub all over him, she said, "I saw you toss out your stuff, I kidnapped you remember, I take care of the bills."

He just smiled at her, it had been so long since any woman paid for him anything. In fact the only woman he remembered who last bought him anything was his mum. Ever since he started making money, he automatically started paying for all his dates, not that any of them had reached for their wallets and even pretended to want to pay.

This gesture she made, thou small to most people, felt great to him.

He watched her curved ass as she walked to the boot before turning for the entrance. She had a very nice ass.

This thought led to thoughts of him grabbing onto them as he helped her move just right on top of him as she was riding him. That thought made him hard and his trousers a little tight. He had to cool down fast because he was going to be in a harness real soon and showing off his bulge was not on his to do list.

It did not help matters that when she came in, and they clipped on her gear, the harness seemed to be emphasizing her ass more. It was like the tighter it was tied the more her ass cheeks popped and her thighs showed.

The attendant noticed it too and moved in too close for his taste so he stepped closer and placed his hand on the lower of her back, "you okay?" he asked when she looked up.

"Yah," she said licking her lips and he wanted to just dive right in and kiss her until all her lip gloss dried off.

"Okay you can go up and I can spot you," a very irritated attendant broke into their moment.

Smiling at him he said, "I can spot her."

It was not a friendly smile and it clearly said back off; the attendant got the message loud and clear.

He did not know how to spot someone, but he was sure he could not mess it up. All he had to do was to make sure when she fell she did not hit the ground and spray chunks of brain everywhere.

She was not an amateur and soon she was high up and from her constant hooting every time she reached a new level, she was having an amazing time.

When she reached the top, instead of coming down the way she climbed, she decided to do a free fall. Even though he hated it, he had to call the attendant for that and he wanted to punch the smug smile off his face.

She was not his, but he was laying claim.

He wanted her.

When she got down it was his turn, he strapped himself in. Trying to prove to the attendant that he was twice the man the attendant was, the first level was not hard. The second and third level were going great until he heard her laugh.

It was delicious.

Warm and sweet, like a chocolate coated cake pop.

He had to look down and that was when he saw how high he was and like a little girl, he fainted.

Twenty hours and counting.

CHAPTER SIX

HOUR FIVE

They were fifteen minutes late for the next project; lowering a passed out full grown man from the ceiling without breaking his head took some time. They would now have to hurry through their breakfast if they were to stick to her game plan.

She had found the nearest Java Coffee Shop and they were seated immediately they walked in. Nick had not said a word since he woke up and she was not that surprised, men had a weird thing with their egos. Considering that he had almost climbed to the top she wanted to part him on the head and give him a lollipop like a good little boy. She had the feeling that would not be appreciated so she shut up. As soon as the waitress approached she ordered a full breakfast with fresh juice, some coffee, pancakes with bacon on the side and a slice of their chocolate mud cake. Nick ordered the same except he ordered French toast instead of pancakes.

On a cops salary she did not get to eat like this every day, but now she had her savings to blow through and enjoy whatever she wanted. She was going to enjoy every bit of it, especially that chocolate mud cake that she had heard so much about but never got the chance to try.

As she dug into her breakfast with so much gusto enjoying every last bit of it. Their pancakes were so light and fluffy and their bacon so crisp if she were not so full she would have ordered a box to go. She could not afford to get a stomach ache that might derail her plans in any way.

She savored the cake last and as the flavors rolled onto her tongue they felt like this tiny intense bursts of orgasms and she was so sure she closed her eyes, arched her back a bit and moaned. This was heaven. She wondered why when she had all the time in the world she would make excuses daily not to enjoy the little gifts in life. Like chocolate.

"Cake for breakfast," Nick spoke finally as he started on his piece.

"The best way to enjoy life," She said as she eyed his full piece, hers was halfway done.

"Most people would disagree with you," he said as he cut of a piece with his fork, then looking at it, "Hell on a normal day I would disagree with you, but with the way you enjoyed yours, who am I to say no to such a delicacy." Then he placed it in his mouth and watching his eyes dilate with pleasure made her want to climb over the table and hump him in full view of the restaurant. Who could blame her, the man was just dripping sex, she felt like if she just looked at him for long, she might get pregnant.

She had noticed how many people looked at him like he was familiar, but they could not believe that a famous, super rich musician would be walking around the streets with no back up or entourage.

She was sure if she checked the online platform the number of people who would have twitted that they ran into Nick Kenya's look alike would be staggering. So far no one had dared to venture to ask them if he was really the famous musician, but if the waitress "accidentally" tapped his shoulder again, she was breaking the bitch's hand. No offense to her, but Nick was hers for the day.

"Mmmh," clearing her throat to get rid of those murderous thoughts, "People are so concerned with the number of calories in it, they do not take the time to appreciate the little things."

"In my business, you have to stay in shape or people will stop buying your music, I sell my image as well as my music." After a pause, "I am guessing you also do not eat like this every day."

She quirked her eyebrow as if in question, "Maybe I just have a fast metabolism." Then she took the last bite of her cake; her metabolism was slower than her grandma's walking.

He snorted, "Yah right, I am guessing you are the green smoothie, kind of breakfast girl." He sat back, he had also finished his meal and they just sat and talked like they were old friends.

Laughing, "With pineapples, mangoes and a banana."

Smiling, "Personally, I just take a protein shake, it has been a while since I ate that much food without worrying about the number of calories."

"You got a twenty hour pass, you get to do whatever you want."

Still smiling, "why do I get the feeling that we are going to do whatever you want?"

"Do you mind?"

He took a moment to think about his answer, "All day every day I am always in charge, this twenty four hours I am here for a joy ride."

"Won't everything fall apart without you to hold it all together?" They probably would, he thought, but he had put together a good team and he kind of trusted them. Releasing control was not one of his strong suits.

Shrugging, "All for tomorrow, right now what do you have planned for us next."

She did not have to look at the list, she had gone over it so many times she could remember it off head.

"Volunteering at a Children's Home."

"Okay let's go," he stood up, "I'd offer to pay but I only have the clothes I have on right now."

She grabbed her purse as they stood, "If you were to strip naked, they would probably let us walk out of here without paying." She won't mind.

Laughing, "In your dreams."

She whispered as she passed him, making sure he was the only one who heard her, "Yah in my dreams."

Nineteen hours and counting.

CHAPTER SEVEN

HOUR SIX

The Lady of Mercy Children's home was also in upper hill so they did not have a long drive a head of them, she had tried to concentrate most of the activities in one areas so that they would not spend a lot of time on the road between places.

"Tell me about this place," Nick asked when they packed.

"They take on new babies who have been found abandoned or whose parents dropped them off at the entrance, they clean them up, raise them and educate them until college. The woman who runs it, Maggie, tries to fight for every child but most of the time they are under staffed so I try to volunteer here on my free time, to help out."

"That's impressive."

Shrugging, "It's the right thing to do."

She did not tell him of how many abandoned kids ended up in prostitution rings when they grew up on the streets. Or how many of them ended up being used as labor in family homes and factories. Helping out people like Maggie was the least she could do.

"Let's go, those pans are not going to wash themselves."

Whining a bit, "Do we really have to?" she guessed he had not even cleaned his sauce pan in a long time, he probably had a house keeper to take care of all that.

Laughing, "a little dirty water will not kill you."

She got out and opened the back door to retrieve the three boxes of chocolate mud cake she had ended up ordering for the kids.

He got out, came around and took the boxes from her.

"Your mama taught you well," he was a gentleman after all.

"If she found you carrying all these boxes and me walking casually behind you, my ass would be sore for days. It won't matter that now I am a grown ass man who does not need to be disciplined and I outweigh her." He said as they started walking towards the entrance.

"Let me guess you are taller than her too."

He laughed lightly, "Hell yah." From the way he talked about his mother it was a sure bet that he loved her very much. She was about to ask him about his dad when they got to the door and the watchman swung the door open to let him in.

"Hey, you are back," Godfrey, the watchman stood to give her a hug. He was old enough to be her father's older brother and she had taken onto him like a guardian. He was the welcoming and hugging type and that made you feel important every time you walked into the door.

Placing one hand over her shoulder he turned to stare at Nick, "Who have you brought with you here."

"Just a friend, he is also volunteering today, in fact he offered to wash the pans for us today." Sugar could melt on the smile on her face as she said it. Nick scrawled at her, but he turned the scrawl into a smile fast when Godfrey turned to look at him.

"Yah I am here to help in any way I can."

Godfrey smiled so hugely, she felt like the smile would crack his face. Since the budget of the Children's Home did not cover cleaners, he was in charge of cleaning the kitchen most of the time. With Nick doing his work for him, he would be free to sleep on his chair most of the evening.

"Excellent, we need more men like you," Godfrey said moving towards Nick, he placed his hand on Nick's shoulder and started leading him towards the kitchen as if he was afraid he would ran away if he let him go. She took the cake and smiled up to Nick, "have fun."

He begged with his eyes for her to take him with her whenever she was going but she just ignored him as she started towards the class room. It would be good for him to flex those muscles, other than in a gym.

Maggie's office was right by the classes so she headed there first. She waved at the secretary as she let herself into the office. Maggie was on the phone so she placed the cakes on the desk and took a seat to wait for her to finish her conversation.

"Hey, today you came on a weekday," Maggie said as she placed the phone down. "Not that I am complaining, are you okay?"

Waving like there was nothing wrong, "Yah I am fine, just missed the kids wanted to bring them a treat and say hae to Robbie if it is possible."

Robbie was a special needs kids whose parents abandoned him by the side of the road when they realized he had autism. Sometimes she got so angry at such irresponsible parents, but she came to realize that maybe they too were struggling and could not take care of him.

That was none the matter, Maggie was great with all the kids, hiring specialists and teachers for the kids with special needs. On her visits she had bonded with Robbie and even though he did not communicate by showing emotions or as others would classify as normal, they bonded.

He was so adorable, it was hard not to.

"Yah you can say hae to him in the next five minutes when the class lets out, I am sure the other kids would like to see you too."

"That would be awesome."

So for the next thirty minutes she made her rounds in the classes to say hae to all the kids but in her heart she knew she was saying goodbye. She tried so hard not to cry but on more than one occasion a tear or two slipped out. Especially when she went to see Robbie and she found that he had made her a card. She almost bawled over the silly drawing but she could not let the kids see her like that, so she kissed him on the forehead and thanked him for the picture.

His smile was everything.

Clutching the picture close to her heart, she said goodbye to Maggie and walked towards the gate.

Nick was seated by Godfrey and they seemed to be getting along just fine but when she approached them he scrawled at her. Probably pissed she had abandoned him.

If it were any normal day she would have taken him with her to see the kids, but on this occasion she felt like she had to say goodbye on her own.

"How was the washing trip?" She asked.

"Just dandy." He said goodbye to Godfrey and without a look back he stalked towards the car.

Rolling her eyes after him, men could be such crybabies.

Eighteen hours and counting.

CHAPTER EIGHT

HOUR SEVEN AND EIGHT

"You still mad at me?" Lacey asked when five minutes after she had gotten into the car and he had still not spoken to her. "Are you pouting?" He was and he looked so adorable.

She had not been aware that a grown ass man pouting after doing the dishes would do it for her but it was seriously getting her motor running. Nick was what you would describe as; so gorgeous it hurt to look at him. She was sure if he just climbed out of a crawl space, covered with spider and looking stupid, she would still want to screw him.

"No I am not mad at you, just thinking," He said, "Why did you not want me to go see the kids with you?"

Shrugging, "I just wanted to screw with you with the sauce pans." She said hoping he would not notice she was lying.

"You are not telling me the truth," He did not get to be a business mogul by not spotting lies. He was great at reading people.

"I just needed a moment with them to say goodbye," she decided to go with the truth.

He looked at her, studying her expressions, "You will never go back there?"

One worded answers would suit best in this situation, "Yah."

"Why? You seem to care about those kids," he said still studying her.

"I just got a lot of stuff coming up," she answered non-committal.

He decided to let it go, for now. He was good at negotiations because he knew when to push and when to back off and let the right time present itself.

This was one of those moments.

"So where are we going next?"

Smiling covertly, "I have a secret plan for you." She said navigating through the murram roads, apart from them, this stretch was mostly empty. It was within upperhill but most people still did not know about it, which made it perfect for what she had planned.

Mumbling under his breath, "Why do I feel like I am going to my funeral?"

Turning to smile at him, "Have a little faith."

Fidgeting, "I am not good at surprises."

"It'll be good for you," she said passing off a blindfold to him. "Tie this around your eyes."

Tying the blindfold, "I am so going to be a sacrificial lamb."

She just laughed at that.

Pulling up into the empty space in a really long empty field, filled with beautiful green grass, she looked over to check if he had tied the blindfold. He was way more trusting than she ever was, no way would she ever allow a stranger to blindfold her.

Dying or not, she had too many blind spots and probably a little trust issues.

Opening his door for him she helped him navigate the walk to the front bumper of the car without face planting.

"Are we there yet?"

Giggling, "You are like a little kid, I will tell you when we get there."

When he was finally located exactly where she wanted him to be, she removed his blindfold and he was met with the view of the whole city. Up here everything seemed so small, even the tallest building seemed insignificant. They layout and general design made it look so beautiful and his hands twitched to take a photo.

"Wow," he said grinning.

"Yah, I discovered this one day and since I just come here to think. I have never been here during the day time but it is still as beautiful." She was standing beside him with her hands tucked in her back pocket.

"How do people not know about this?"

Shrugging, "the owner tends to be a little bit territorial, he lets me use it when I feel like it." She had helped the owner track down his delinquent son when nobody else had lifted a finger to help.

"Wow," he said again. She left him standing there she went to the boot to get the cooler she had packed earlier. First she checked if the gun was where she had left it when they went rock climbing, nestled at the back of the boot, then she pulled out the cooler. After locking the boot she found Nick had already hopped on to the bumper so she joined him and placed the cooler between them. Opening it she removed one five hundred liter ice cream and handed it to him with a spoon before removing hers.

"What better way to celebrate a hot day than with ice cream and a very beautiful view of the city." She said opening her container.

"None," he said, looking at her, "The view is also really good from where I am seated."

Their eyes met and held, without saying a word they communicated with their eyes. She was the first one to break contact and they just sat there silently, enjoying the breeze, the view and the company. In the city and in their lives everything was always moving, deadline to be met, reports to be filed that finding a quiet moment was not easy.

Just seating here, eating ice cream with the wind blowing softly, it felt like heaven and Nick felt some parts of his old self reviving. He started humming under his breath without even realizing he was doing it.

"Which song is that?" She asked, "I am not sure I have heard that tune before."

"It's something new that just popped into my head."

"It sounds good, will you play it for me before our time together is over?"

Looking over at her, "Yah, I will." Smiling, "if I manage to finish it."

"You will," she said taking another scope of her ice cream.

He was silent for a moment, "It has been a while since music just popped into my head. When I just started out with my singing career it used to do that all the time, but when I started getting busy it just stopped." He had never confessed that to anybody, her being a stranger made it easy for him to tell her, he was also sure she would not judge him, from the glimpse he had had, she was also fighting her own demons.

"Creativity is like a wild beast, can't be tamed," she said and he understood.

"Yah it is."

"I also used to sing when I was young," looking up at him, she smiled, "I was no Nick Kenya but I could hold a tune. Singing is freeing."

"You must also sing for me before our time together is over," somehow as they were talking their hands had found their way into each other and now they just sat there holding hands, there half eaten ice cream forgotten.

Almost sub consciously they both noticed they were holding hands at the same time, they looked down at their joined hands but still did not let go. Holding his hand was thrilling, not because she had the biggest crush on him since time in memorial, but because above all else he was a decent guy. So many times she had second guessed her plan to spend her last day with him; what if he was a jerk? What if he ruined her day? The only way to find out was by taking a leap of faith and she was glad she had.

"You have a little something, right here," Nick said lifting his free hand and using his thumb he brushed the runaway ice cream. Without hesitating he placed that thumb in his mouth and sucked. She felt a flash of arousal so strong pulse through her as she watched him suck on that thumb wondering what else he would suck if she asked.

From the darkening of his eyes he felt it too.

She was not sure who moved first and she did not even care.

One minute they were apart and the next she was on top of him kissing him like her life depended on it. He responded in kind until it felt like they were just devouring each other without a care in the world. Restless and to ease the need she felt, she started moving on top of him. He growled in approval and deepened the kiss, pulling her closer until they were flash together. The only thing separating them was his trouser and her panties as she had worn a dress that just flapped to the side.

As she moved her hip forward, he moved his slightly upwards until they bumped at the exact point she wanted. Slowing down the kiss, he placed small precise kisses on her lips.

"You feel so good." He said and she only moaned in response.

"This will not do," he said as he jumped of the hood still holding her and she wrapped her legs around him. She was sure the cooler fell down and most of the things she had packed spilled but she did not care.

She placed small kisses on his neck, even his skin felt so delicious.

He opened the back door with one hand, placed her inside and she scrambled get as far back as she could on her back. He removed his shirt to reveal an expanse of six pacs* that made her want to scramble off the seat, climb him and fuck him long and hard where he stood as he held onto her. The fantasy made her wetter than she already was, which she thought was not possible.

As he loosened his belt, she removed her panties, she did not want anything between them. He crawled into the back seat after her and kissed her. She scrambled to lower his trouser and boxers and he groaned in approval. When he was finally gloriously naked, she retrieved a condom and tried to put it on him. She was too slow as she enjoyed teasing his glorious length so he just took over and rolled it down himself. Pulling her under him, he lined them perfectly and slowly rolled into her.

It was amazing, so she just threw her head back and enjoyed how he felt as he slipped into her. When he got to the end he just stopped for a moment and released a sigh of contentment.

Too turned on, she started moving, she wanted to feel him moving inside her so bad. He took a hint and started moving hitting the spot that made her want to jump of the seat each time.

Her orgasm rolled in slowly, like waves just lapping on the shore and then it swept over her until she was boneless and sure she could never move again. He was not far behind her, grunting his release just a second after the corners of her vagina started clamping and holding tight onto him.

"Wow," he said after kissing her softly. She just wanted to close her eyes and sleep for a while, but since that was not an option, she opened her eyes and looked at him.

"That was amazing," she said, "But we have to get going."

Grinning down at her, "Yah the breeze blowing around my ass is not very flattering."

She laughed when she realized they had left the door open.

Placing one last kiss on her lips, he sat up. She passed him a wet wipe from her purse and he cleaned up the best he could before pulling on his boxers and trousers.

Leaving her at the back seat as she cleaned herself up and made herself look presentable he left to put the cooler into the boot.

Whistling the new tune that had gotten clearer, he retrieved the cooler from where it had fallen and collected the foods and ice cream containers into one paper bag. He was still whistling when he opened the boot to place the items in there.

He did not see it at first when he placed the paper bag on the floor of the trunk.

It was when he was creating space for the cooler that he saw the gun nestled at the back of the boot.

Fifteen hours and counting.

CHAPTER NINE

HOUR NINE

She was still bubbling in the aftermath of amazing sex when her phone rang and even before she picked up she knew who it would be.

"Hello."

"Where are you? Did you get a lawyer like I told you too? They are looking for you and the fact that you are nowhere to be found seems to prove to them that you are guilty."

Nick came back into the car looking like he had just seen a ghost.

Crap, he must have found her gun.

She ignored him for now, "I told you to buy me twenty four hours."

"I tried, but you know how IA can be."

Sighing, "yah I do."

"If you come in and answer a few questions I am sure you will be out in a few hours."

Hours she did not have.

"I went to visit a friend and now it's pretty late if I start driving back I will not get there in time, can you tell them that you spoke to me and I will be there tomorrow morning."

"Okay I will try but they will not believe me, the chief is pretty pissed off too. One of his officers implicated in a murder and she cannot be found anywhere."

"Can I talk to him?"

"Okay hold on."

"Knight, get your ass back into this office right now," she recognized the chief's voice thundering at her.

"Sir I just got into the car but I will arrive late, I will be there first thing tomorrow morning."

"Okay I can buy you a little time, but if you are not back here first thing tomorrow I am putting a BOLO out on you."

"Yes sir." She said right before he cut the call. She could imagine him slamming Nathans phone on the table in anger.

Poor Nathan, she thought smiling.

She would not be around tomorrow morning and she had just bought herself a little more time.

"You are a cop," Nick said, he must have been following her side of the conversation.

"Yah," she answered simply, "here to protect and serve."

He seemed relieved.

Smiling, "You thought I was going to shoot you?" She asked smiling at him.

He grinned back, "The thought did cross my mind." He was silent for a moment, "What is going on, why do they want you back at the office?"

It was none of his business but he wanted to know.

"They need me to answer a few questions about a case I am involved in." She did not want to lie to him so she hedged the truth a little bit.

"Are you in trouble?" He felt this need to protect her. "I know a few lawyers."

Looking at him, "That is so sweet, but I am sure they will just make me answer a few questions before they release me." If she walked into that precinct she was never walking out a free woman.

Taking her hand into his, "Are you sure?"

She nodded, "I lied because I want to spend the last hours with you before I am put in the grinder."

He gave her hand a little squeeze then let it go, "Okay but if you need anything tell me." She was not telling him everything but for now he was not going to push her. She needed to trust him a little more.

He would not see her again after tomorrow but he would help her if she needed. This was by far the best day of his life since he became rich and famous.

She nodded and turned back to the wheel, "Okay who wants to go to coast."

"Are we driving there?"

"No, I was hoping we could use one of your many private planes to get there."

He did not say anything for a moment then, "Can I borrow your phone?"

"Yah," she handed it to him.

"Jeff," he said after a few seconds, "I need you to get the plane ready we will be in the airport in the next fifteen minutes."

"Yes sir."

He hang up and handed it back to her.

"That was so boss like of you."

Smiling at her, "You liked that."

"Yah, power on a man always does something to us women, just makes you way hotter."

"I can fix that," he said leaning down to kiss her.

She stopped him laughing, "As tempting as that is we cannot keep Jeff waiting." She started the car and he sat back, relaxed.

As the car gained momentum she threw her phone out the window and ran it over with her back tire.

"We can always get a new one," she said casually.

He was not fooled.

Fourteen hours and counting.

CHAPTER TEN

HOUR TEN

She did not like airports but when you are walking with a multi-millionaire who automatically gets a VIP pass, it makes navigating the airport easier.

After they packed their car at the airport parking lot she picked up her gun and guitar case from the boot. Nick looked a bit uncomfortable as she stuck the gun at the holster in thigh but she just smiled at him reassuringly. He was probably worried that he would turn around and she would shoot him in the back of the head.

She patted her car one last time and looked at it sadly. This would probably be the last time she saw it, it was old but they had had some good times together. Now as she looked at it one last time she was not mad at those moments she was late to the office because the car won't start. Patting it one last time she turned and followed Nick into the airport.

One of the reason she had gone to seek out Nick was because he had access to a private jet where they did not have to go through a security check and she could use the plane get anywhere in the world.

That did not mean she did not appreciate his tight body, she thought with a smile as she followed behind him.

They were shown to a private lounge to wait for Jeff and they did not have to wait long, a few minutes a really tall guy with shabby hair wearing a pilot uniform came to pick them up.

They were lead down the corridor into the private hanger and then down to the plane.

When she got in she tried to hide her amazement but she could not. Everything about the plane screamed luxury from the white leather covers on the seats to the gold bar cart at the end of the isle filled with glasses and a bucket of champagne on ice.

It seemed like money had not been spared in the building and furnishing the plane. She planned to enjoy every inch of it in the best way possible.

"I see you have done well for yourself here," she said taking a seat directly opposite his.

"I travel a lot so I'd rather do it in luxury," he said smirking and his eyes lit up like a little kid who loved his toy so much. In a way this plane was just a big toy for him. "It was actually not that expensive, I bought it from some musician who did not make the right investments and his business started going under."

"More flash than bang," she said. She knew such musicians that a little success got into their head and made them feel more important than they actually were.

"Exactly," he said seating back like the boss he was. Out there on the street she led the way but in here he was in his territory and he wanted her to know who was in control.

She always thought that giving up control would be a battle of wits but to him it felt natural. She was going to seat back relax and maybe take one of those hot towels she saw so much in every romantic comedy that included a first class air ticket.

They buckled up and soon they were air borne.

As soon as it was safe enough he asked, "Can I show you around?"

"That would be great," she was dying to know what was back there.

She was not disappointed, it was a fully furnished bedroom that was a bit small but looked really light and airy with mirrors and white surfaces. Across the bedroom was this bathroom with a really wide tub that she just wanted to sink into.

"If we were going further away you could have enjoyed a good bubble bath," he said as if reading her mind.

She was standing by the bathroom door way and he was right behind her so she turned to look at him, "Ooh before the night is over, I plan to be soak in a really nice deep tub." She said as she let her eyes rove all over him.

He took a step closer, "Can I join you?" He asked, his eyes heated and she wanted to throw caution to the wind and let him have her right there. But they had more time for that later.

Touching his shirt, "If you are really nice to me, I can let you soak with me."

Almost purring, "I can be real nice," he said and she smiled.

He really could.

"So we have about thirty minutes to kill, what do you suggest we do?" She asked.

Taking her hand he led her out of the room, "I know just the thing."

She resumed her seat and he opened up the bottle of champagne with a pop, and then poured the drink halfway into two flute glasses.

He brought her one and then made a toast, "To strange connections."

She said, "And weird friendships," she said clicking her glass on his.

"I'll drink to that," he said taking a sip and she took one too, letting the bubbles and almost silkiness of the drink wash over her. It was really great, she would bet it was not one of those cheap bottles she bought in the supermarket.

Dancing on a moving plane was way more fun than dancing on the ground, she thought as she step danced to some of his music. They danced, drank champagne and laughed as she tried on new fancy clothes that were stored in the bedroom closet. She did not want to ask him why he had female clothes in the closet and at the moment she did not care much.

Whenever she would come out of the room in a new attire he would make up a story about the outfit and the kind of woman who wore it.

One he said was bank teller who loved her job in accounting but still embraced the fact that she was a woman.

Another he said was a power woman who dressed to be taken seriously in the business world filled with men.

The game went on and on until the air hostess came to tell them they were about to land she should better take her seat and fasten her seatbelt.

She loved how everyone was so professional and truthful she had not laughed that hard since two years ago.

For a superstar he was way too much fun.

"I booked us a villa at The Sarang Resort, I hope you do not mind, I use it whenever I come to Mombasa so I thought that would be just best."

Shrugging, "It's okay," she would bet that Jeff had booked the room as soon as he heard his boss was going to coast. She was planning for them to stay there anyway, this way he was saving her money. Not that she was going to need it in the end.

As they say you cannot take your money with you.

"They have a private beach if you like we can explore." He was taking control.

This was her plan she would not let him.

"It's still early I was hoping we could sight see for about an hour before checking in. We can have dinner on the beach later," she suggested.

"Okay that's great too," they did not really have any baggage so that would not be a problem. Thou she was keeping this cute shorts and tank top she was still wearing from his closet.

She would leave her dress behind, maybe tomorrow he would remember he with them.

She wanted him to remember her.

Shaking her head, that was stupid, he would probably throw them away or burn them after she did what she was planning.

She hoped he would understand and not hate her. What he thought of her had somehow become important to her.

It would not matter anyway, by the time the time came around she would be nowhere near him. She was not going to ruin his generosity by tangling him up in a scandal.

Worldwide renowned musician found in bed with a dead bimbo, she could almost see the news flashing. She would not do that to him. Now that she was in coast, she would stay with him until he fell asleep then find her way.

A few hours earlier it would not have mattered but now somehow he did.

Even if he did not remember her, wherever she was going, heaven or hell, he would always have a special part in her heart.

Lisa I am doing this for you, she thought trying so hard not to cry.

She had made her decision, this was her burden to carry.

She was not going to chicken out now.

Thirteen hours and counting.

CHAPTER ELEVEN

HOUR ELEVEN

Fifteen minutes they had made it down several shops just window shopping, talking about nothing in particular when she realized this was not what she wanted to do with her time. Her time was precious and time with him was running out so she would rather they be somewhere they both enjoyed. Not out here trying to walk through many people trying to go somewhere.

"Can we go to the beach now?"

Smiling, "I thought you'd never ask."

Since none of them had a phone to order an uber, they took the motorbike to the villa. They checked in at the reception then made their way directly to the beach. Her guitar was slung over his shoulder, he had taken it from her the moment they alighted the flight. And he looked so good with it there, like it belonged.

Maybe she would leave it with him, she thought and she did not hate the idea.

The dress would probably be thrown away by the cleaning crew when they realized it was not as expensive as the others, but her guitar he would never throw away.

She was an artist, musicians did not just throw away guitars.

That way some part of her would always be with him; that thought made her smile. Taking his hand in hers she let them dangle between them as they walked toward the beach.

When they got there, she removed her shoes and set them aside, she wanted to feel the sand between her feet.

The beach was private so the people there were few and just relaxing which she loved. It beat trying to get a spot in a public beach.

"I am going into the water," she said, "You coming?"

He looked at her like she was crazy, "the sun is almost setting, I am sure the water is freezing right about now."

"Come on live a little," she said taking his hand and started pulling him towards the ocean.

"Okay let me just remove my shoes and roll up my trouser," he said and she let him go.

That was her first mistake.

He bent down, removed his shoes and rolled up his trouser then took off in a ran.

Laughing, "Seriously," she called out after him.

"If you want me to go to the water you have to catch me first." He said when he thought he was a safe distance away.

The police academy had thought her about chasing down suspects and tackling them to the ground. He was taller and made bigger steps than her but she was faster. She was going to use that.

So when he started running, she started chasing him pretending to be slow every time he looked behind. Turns out she did not have to tackle him to the ground, when at one time he looked behind he stumbled on a log by the beach and fell down.

She was close so she just dove right in there after him trying to cushion his fall but she was too late, they ended up in a tangle of limbs sprawled on the beach.

Laughing she said, "You are not really good at running."

"I was distracted, do not think I did not see the trick you were trying to pull."

Trying to look innocent, "What trick," she said batting her eyelids and they both burst out laughing. This felt so good.

"Okay now that I have caught you, you have to go into the water with me," she said trying to get up from on top of him.

"You did not actually catch me, I tripped and fell," he said.

Smiling, "semantics."

"Okay, okay, help me up."

She stretched out her hand to him to help him up, that was a second mistake, and he pulled her down to him then got up and started running for the water.

"Last one in is a rabbit."

She was not sure what he meant but competition was engrained in her so she took off running after him.

Of course he got there before her, pouting, "Not fair, you pulled me down."

She was already planning her revenge.

"You snooze you loss princess," he said pinching her nose softly.

The water felt great on her legs so she just let it soak her awhile, the waves crashing between her legs softly.

"This is great," she said.

"Yah it is, thanks for bringing me, I have not laughed so hard in a while," he said and he meant it. Maybe it was time he brought back fun in his music, enjoyed his time at the studio recording and maybe she would let him see her again after she sorted out what was waiting for her back at the precinct.

He loved how he felt around her, carefree and happy, enjoying every second of life. He had to convince her to let him take her on a date and see where the connection they had would lead.

It had been a while since he liked anyone or felt a spark of life.

He was not letting her go that easily.

Everything he had in life, he had fought for it, and he would fight for her to if that was what she wanted.

She was so closed off thou he did not know if she even liked him more than for sex. From the way she looked at him, the sexual compatibility was not an issue. He just wanted her to like him more than that because he liked her more than that and would love to get to know her better in their normal environment.

His mistake was not paying attention, one minute he was upright the next she had pushed him into the stone cold water and the water soaked him all the way through.

At first he was mad then he saw her laughing and his anger just melted away. He loved how she laughed with her whole body.

She was not paying attention so he stood up and pulled her down with him and soon she was also soaking wet.

"Hey," she complained and he laughed.

They swam around for a few minutes just enjoying the water and once in a while splashing water at each other.

Five minutes later they emerged from the water and went back to get his shoes and the guitar. They then sat on the beach.

At first it was cold so he pulled her to him and tucked her under his arm and soon they did not feel the cold anymore. Just the breeze wafting from the ocean.

They did not say anything, just enjoyed the view of the sun that had started to set and each other's company.

Then slowly Nick started humming and the tune caught on with her, she did not really know the music but she hummed along anyway and soon it was like they made an imperfect tune.

Laughing she said, "That does not even make sense."

Smiling, "I know that's why it's so good."

He reached for the guitar and started strumming some chords and she filled a few with as many funny words as she could master.

By the time they were done the song looked like that giant jenga that is about to topple over and bury everyone with it.

"You wanna try it from the top, I play you sing?"

Cringing a little bit "You sure? That song is not that good."

Nodding, "I am sure, just sing it, it has great bones." After repeating the same songs over and over again, Nick was happy to play a song that did not seem to fit but made sense.

"Okay here goes nothing," she said then started singing as he played.

Every corny morning I watch the sun in your hair

Every corny morning it makes no sense

Every corny morning I see your smile

Every corny morning I can smell your scent in the air

She picked up the beat a bit

It drives me crazy

So stir crazy

Knowing you are mine

Knowing you belong to me

You belong to me

I belong to you

Yours forever....

By the time she was done singing they were looking into each other's eyes and it felt like she had just sang it for him.

She wondered how it would look like in the morning, awake and still rumpled from sleep.

Not for her, she thought.

Clearing her throat she smiled, "that was great," she said.

"Yah really powerful stuff."

She wanted to kiss him but she knew that this time if she kissed him it would not be devoid of feelings. This time if they kissed he would know how much she liked him.

It was getting way out of control so she stood up, "we should get back to our rooms and change into other clothes before we catch a cold or something." She said.

Standing, he returned the guitar to the case, "You are probably right."

Twelve hours and counting.

CHAPTER TWELVE  
HOUR TWELVE

"I am hungry we did not have lunch can we order room service?" Lacey said as soon as they got into the room.

Nick agreed with her, going through everything today, a different activity every hour kind of gave him a whiplash and huge appetite. It was great day and all but what he wanted now was to take a shower, eat something, relax with Lacey and probably make love and fall asleep next to her. Tomorrow morning he would make her breakfast and convince her to give what they had a shot.

See if they could work in the real world.

He had a feeling they would.

"Yah let me see what I can get delivered as you take a shower."

She did not argue with him so she made a bee line for the shower that seemed like an oasis. They had two high pressure wide shower heads so she turned them both on and let the water wash away her tears.

Everything she had held together just came flooding out in that moment and she cried for everything.

After Lisa's death she had been in so much shock she had never cried, just held everything in. When the investigations started, she had had to organize a funeral and be strong enough that she was not kicked of the investigating team. So then she had not grieved.

After they found out who was responsible all she had been filled with was this deep hatred and anger towards him, so then too she did not have time to grieve.

Now all that was catching up with her and all she felt was sadness. Sadness that her friend had lost her life so young, sadness at everything she must have suffered through before she died and sadness at what she had had to do.

She knew now that it had probably not been the best option but by then she had felt so lost and like she did not a choice. She had just spent the best eleven hours of her life with Nick and she would be lying if she said she had not developed feelings for him.

It was hard not to.

He was perfect and she really liked him but that would lead nowhere. She had only thirteen more hours to live.

The thought of losing Nick made her cry harder and she just let it wash over her. When she was done crying she felt so spent and tired, but she was not going to sleep today.

She would sleep tomorrow for the rest of her life.

As she wrapped the towel around her she smiled at the irony of the fact that when she finally found something to live for, she did not have enough time to enjoy it.

She was not going to be sad, she thought as she dried herself off, she had a hunk of a man waiting for her at the other side of the door.

She was going to dry off, slip into this fluffy robes and enjoy the rest of her time with Nick.

When she went back to the room, fully covered in the fluffiest bathrobe ever made, she found that he had already ordered their dinner.

"Are you planning on feeding a troop of armies," she smiled as she asked and sat on the bed's bench. It seemed like he had ordered everything on the menu.

Shrugging, "I did not know what you liked, so I just ordered a bit of everything. Help yourself, I am going to take a shower and change too."

He did not know how to bring up the fact that he had heard her crying in the shower. She had the water turned on but at times the crying would exceed the threshold of the sound made by the shower water.

He would bring it up soon, just not now, he thought as he got into the bathroom.

First get clean, then get some food in the stomach, then delve into the mystery that is Lacey.

Lacey took two plates and served what she liked and what she thought Nick might like, she then took two side dishes and served them some dessert.

Trying hard not to fall on her ass and spill food on what she was sure was a hundred thousand Kenyan shillings rug, she carried the food over to the fireplace. She then set up two places on the shaggy rug and then went for the wine which she set on the hardwood floor.

No need to tempt fate.

She took a seat beside her plate and ate as she watched the fire.

She was so lost in thought she did not hear Nick approach until he touched her shoulder and she almost jumped out of her skin.

It was a good thing she was not holding the wine or she would be going to her death with a very big bill she was sure she could not pay with all her savings.

Nick sat beside the plate she had set up for him on the floor.

"Thanks," he said as he started eating.

"You are welcome, this is so much better than the dining table, this way we get to watch the cozy fire while we eat," she said.

This day was turning out way better than she had planned.

"Yah it is really calming," he said, he was also in his bathrobe.

"This bathrobes are just the most comfortable things ever, if I was going back home I would have carried them in my bag." She said without thinking.

"You are not going back home?" He asked, oops she had slipped up.

"I have to be back at the precinct tomorrow, you can imagine me walking into the chief's office to defend a case with a stolen robe in my bag," the image that conjured up was pretty funny but she was still not telling him everything.

He could sense.

Now that she had brought it up, "What does the case involve," he wanted to see if he could help. He did not care if she did not want him involved, he was getting involved.

"Just for an old friend of mine," she said hedging on the truth again.

"Lacey," he called her name and did not say anything until she looked up at him, "I heard you crying in there." He pointed at the bathroom.

He looked like he wanted to make everything better for her and she knew she could not lie to him anymore. Sooner or later he was going to find out the truth anyway.

So she started from the beginning, "When I was ten I met this really great girl and we hit it off and were best friends ever since. I was an only child so Lisa was the only sibling I had and she was a great friend and sibling," wiping the tear that had slipped by, if she started crying before she started telling the story how was she going to finish it? "Anyway we did everything together, even got our first apartment together when we moved to the city. When my parents died, thou my grandparents raised me they were old, Lisa was the only one truly there for me."

"About two years ago she was murdered and her body damped in the river," she paused.

He said, "I remember that story, it got a lot of coverage."

"Yah that was her seeing her like that, something just did not feel right anymore so I kind of closed myself off and made hunting the person who did that to her my priority."

"You were the office who arrested Perri Granger," he said and she nodded.

"Today morning he was found dead and they are looking to question me, I guess I am there main suspect."

They were silent for what felt like a long time, "Did you kill him?" He asked.

He had to know.

"No," there was something she was still not telling him.

"Lacey look at me," he said and she did, "Did you kill him?"

"No," she said looking directly into his eyes and he believed her.

Still something did not feel right, she was not telling him everything.

He wanted to tell her that it was okay and he understood why she would not tell him everything but it was not okay and he was done pretending it was.

It was time to push.

"You are not telling me everything," he went in for the kill.

Shifting her eyes away from his, "Why would you think that?"

"Because you won't even look at me."

The food had long lost its appeal and now she was just toying with it on her plate.

Looking up at him, "It's none of your business." She knew she was being harsh but it was for his own good. There was no way she was dragging him into the mess she had created.

Standing up she started pacing. Most of the time it helped her think now it felt like she was going around in circles with no discernible end.

She had not denied that she was hiding something from him, he could work with that.

"It cannot be that bad," he said trying to seem calm when all he wanted was to stand up and shake her until she told him what was wrong. He could help her, no matter what she was involved in.

She was so silent for so long he was sure she was not going to tell him anything. He was just about to give up and tell her to let it go when she sat back down and started talking.

"I do not even know if I am guilty."

"How? You did not kill him," he said softly trying not to spook her.

"Yah but I really wanted to do it, I was just so mad and hated him so much and it was like each day the hate just kind of built up in me."

Taking her hand in his for show of support he did not say anything.

"It was my fault you know, that we did not catch him," she wiped a tear that had escaped using her free hand. "I wanted so bad to see him suffer and languish in jail that I screwed up by arresting him before we could get enough evidence. I just wanted someone to pay for taking her away from me. I wanted someone to hurt more than I did. After that every piece of evidence we had come up with was thrown out. His lawyer argued that since I had been involved in the case and was vested personally my judgment was skewered and I had screwed up or framed his client. Nobody said it but we all knew he walked because of me."

She did not realize at the moment that she was squeezing so hard on his hand, he did not want to say anything in case she stopped talking.

So instead he asked, "How did Perri and Lisa know each other?" He hated that she blamed herself, if he had such a close friend and something happened to them he was not sure how he would have reacted. But he was sure it would not have been good for anybody. He had also grown up as an only child but unlike her, he had no one to write home about. As far back as he could remember it was just him and his mum. He had tried for some time to ask about his father but each time her mother just clammed up until he had just dropped it.

"They met in a club that much I know, that day I was working the night shift and Lisa wanted to go dancing, I could not go with her so I just told her to go have fun. I do not know what happened but the doctor found some date rape drug in her system."

"How did you know it was Perri that killed her?"

"We followed the drug trail and I may have dug through his trash for a coffee mug he threw out. We used it to compare with the semen found in her and it matched."

He clenched his jaw, he wished that bastard was alive so he could hit him.

Men who used drugs to take advantage of women made him sick to his stomach.

"So you wanted to kill him, that does not make you guilty of a crime," he said, trying to reassure her.

Releasing his hand she looked away, "Yah about that, I might have hired someone to do it."

At the look of shock in his face she said, "No not like that, I did not pay someone to kill him," he released a breath he did not know he was holding.

Smiling, "do not be too relieved that fast." She did not even know how she smiled at a time like this.

Turning back to him, "do you remember the legend of the Safari park? The night drifter?"

"Yah but that was just a legend, no one had heard about him in five years."

"I know I looked into it, but I still left a picture anyway."

Smiling, "He is not real."

She did not smile back, "Then how can you explain Perri Grangers death just twenty four hours later."

"Maybe he just had a conscious and jumped."

"Men like that do not just feel guilty and jump off bridges."

"Trust me they can, I am rich and I still have feelings just like everybody else, sometimes more than others because I feel privileged."

She looked at him, "You think I am just overreacting?"

"I am sure it's nothing." He said as he pulled her towards him and she lay her head on his shoulder.

They both knew that was not true.

He just did not want to comprehend the fact that if what she said was true by morning she would be gone. He had just found her, he was not willing to loss her yet.

She wanted to pretend for a second that she had her whole life ahead of her.

"I need to go outside a bit for some fresh air I will be back in a second." He said and she nodded.

He left after kissing her softly on the forehead.

As she saw him leave she understood, he needed some time away to process everything that she had just said. A tear slid down her cheek and she did not bother to wipe it, if he did not come back, she understood.

He went down to the receptionist desk and asked to use their phone.

"Hello, I need a favor," he said as soon as the phone was answered.

It was time he took control of the situation.

Eleven hours and counting.

******

He watched her through the telescope as she sat on the floor trying not to cry. Shifting the scope downwards he watched him talking on the phone.

She was not getting away from him.

Everybody had to pay somehow for their deeds.

No one got to get away scoot free.

He won't let them.

THE END.

Did you love Nick and Lacey? Want to find out what happened to them? Keep watch the new Bucket List book 2 will be here before the end of March.

Thanks so much for reading my book.

ABOUT THE AUTHOR

Lynn Achieng lives in Nairobi Kenya and comes from a family with many teachers. Being a student of Electrical Engineering she is widely read and struggles to understand what people go through every day.

She started writing romance novels when she was just a little girl and now she spares all the time she can get to develop her writing. She is still new in the publishing world and would appreciate all the reviews on her book. Hopefully this will be the beginning of a beautiful relationship between her and you.

Email her with any concerns or ideas at lynnjoanachieng@gmail.com and she will take the time to reply and appreciate you all.

Thanks.

SNEEK PEEK INTO OTHER BOOKS BY LYNN ACHIENG

GRAB YOURSELF A COPY TODAY

# SPIRAL OF CRAZY

## SNEEK PEEK

## PROLOGUE

You throw a girl out of the window once; you end up in a mental hospital.

It was not like it was even that high up, just from the first floor window.

Some people were just sissy's, Roxy thought as she paced the room she had been assigned at Mathare Mental Hospital.

Five years she had worked her ass off to be among the best writers of her time and here she was in a mental institution, labeled crazy.

There was no difference between her and the man who walked around naked in the streets. One's gotta laugh at the irony of the situation.

"This will be good for you," her mother had said just an hour ago. "Take some time to be yourself again, find yourself again."

She got where her mother came from she just did not appreciate it. She could just imagine the news headlines, "Famous Author Roxy Moraa Gone Crazy" "Author Roxy in The Luni Bin".

She could imagine the news interviews, "So did you think she could snap like this someday?" Some faceless journalist would ask.

The "friend" being interviewed would reply, "Of course just look at chapter eight of her last book, the way she had Eva running around with a knife. It is just a spiral of crazy." Except that 'friend' had known her about a whole thirty minutes.

Her actual friend Rose would be throwing things at the television got despite her sweet disposition she was a fire cracker.

But who would care if the friend talking on television was an actual friend as long as she made the headlines.

"Friends knew that Roxy would one day snap."

Yeah right.

It would not matter that the woman she had thrown out the window was her boyfriend's latest squeeze.

Or that she found them banging on her bed, going at it like two wild rabbits.

Maybe she should have let the woman dress before going all Rambo on her ass. Those cardio kickboxing lessons had worked, Rafe her ex boyfriend as per this morning, had to call the cops.

Like he had not done enough damage already.

Too bad they had not gotten their before she threw them out of the window. She was about to follow her over to finish what she had started when two cops restrained her.

Too say the truth she had not really loved Rafe, it was just the combination of the stress of working so hard on her latest book trying to make it a masterpiece that had gotten to her.

Seeing them together she had just snapped.

It was like a dam had broken free and rage had flown out. Sweeping.

Maybe just maybe, all she needed was a break.

A new start.

To take the year in the Luni bin to formulate a plan.

Seating down with a sigh on the bed with white sheets; or she had finally gone crazy.

Who knew?

## CHAPTER ONE

Blake loved his routine.

Working out, going to work, eating and sleeping at the same time every day.

As his feet pounded down the path he thought of a time when he let passion rule his life.

When he had lived for his desires before he had crashed and burned.

Now his life was predictable and he loved knowing exactly what he was going to do tomorrow those facts filled him with contentment and satisfaction.

His therapist had said, "develop a routine, it will give you structure, this will help your life get back on track."

He had taken those words literally.

He came to a stop right outside his front door.

The running each morning helped him, especially on those nights he had nightmares and he could almost hear Mary's voice.

Shaking himself out of it he picked up his newspaper on his way in. Many people now loved reading news from tablets or their phones; he just loved the smell of the newspaper. Reminded him of his daddy.

As soon as he opened the door his cat Mel ran to the door like he missed him. He knew better Mel was probably just hungry or wanted to slip out between his legs. He was not normally a cat person but when he bought the house, it came with the cat. He did not have the heart to throw him out and the company was not bad.

Being that Mel had been on his own so long he would sneak into the neighbors houses for food even if Blake fed him. The neighbors complained and it had to stop so he started locking him in the house. For the two days sleep was ruined for him as Mel went ahead to rip and knock everything over.

On the third day Blake locked him in the bathroom and that was when they came to an understanding.

As much of an understanding as a cat and man can get.

Mel makes noise, Mel sleeps in the bathroom.

Simple.

He picked up the phone to call his friend Nathan as he got the cat food from the top shelf.

"Hey lazybones, wake up," he said as soon as he heard a grunt from the other end of the line.

That was met with more grunting and groaning.

"Waky waky the sun is up."

"Go fuck yourself," was the only answer he got to which he burst out laughing. Judging from the groan on the other end of the line or the look Mel gave him, his merriment was not appreciated.

"For your day to be right you have to start it happy," the voice of his therapist rang out again and he pushed it down. He had faked a lot of happiness until now, but he was actually enjoying waking Nathan up.

"Hey language Mel is listening," currently Mel was chewing down on his food and would not give a damn if they swore all day.

"You and that damn cat of yours," Nathan said still grumpy.

"He loves me," to which Mel released a sigh that sounded so much like yah right. "Anyway get your butt up today we are going hiking remember."

With a sigh of realization that he was never going to get back to sleep, "You know I could just disconnect this call and go back to bed."

"I have the coffee ready."

Suddenly chipper, "Next time lead with that, I'll be there in five minutes." Then he was gone.

Placing the phone down with a chuckle, "Man he was easy."

Exactly five minutes later Nathan burst in through the back door chanting coffee coffee coffee.

Standing next to the kitchen island he watched his friend assault his coffee maker, "Good morning to you too."

"Asshole," was the only answer he got as he filled his cup up.

"Now that is so much better," Nathan said after finishing up the whole cup in three gulps.

"You swear too much for a cop," Blake replied, "and does the coffee not burn you? That thing was hot."

Raising one finger, "first I swear the right amount for a cop to put up the type of crap I put up with in a day." Pausing, "Second, I have developed a tolerance for hot coffee."

Laughing, "So what has put you in an extra grumpy mood this morning?"

Filling his cup again he took a seat on the stool next to where Blake was standing.

"One word, Mrs. Iffy."

Chuckling, "technically that is two words," to which he got a murderous glare. "Okay what did she do this time?"

"Took a frying pan to Mr. Iffy for not putting the toilet seat down. When I got there she was running after him around the coffee table shouting about air bacteria and viruses."

By the time he was done Blake was bent over laughing so hard. This was why he woke up Nathan in the morning there was always a funny story.

Chuckling Nathan added, "One day those two will end up killing each other, not from one hitting the other but from all the running around they do. They are eighty they should be seated somewhere knitting and chewing tobacco."

Wiping a tear, "That would be the day."

"Speaking of which I hear they have a niece coming to town this weekend," Nathan said trying to look non chlochant, "Maybe you two will hit it off."

He had not dated since Mary passed away five years ago and he could not blame his friend for trying to help but he was not ready. He still needed more time.

The easy mood lost, "Yah maybe," he moved to the sink.

"Man it has been five years, it's time to move on and maybe a stranger here for the holidays is just what you need."

Jaw tightening he placed the cup down with more force than necessary, "Not interested." For a minute or two there was silence and tension.

Trying to lighten the mood Blake turned around, "Maybe she is as crazy as her aunt and uncle."

Chuckling, "Maybe even crazier."

To that they burst out laughing.

Easy mood restored.

What they did not count on thou was Nathan being right.

CURSED

## SNEEK PEEK

"Ever heard of a phone you damnass," she asked climbing from the bed, she did not even try to be graceful about it. She did not wait for an answer thou just left him seated there and stomped into the bathroom which was not far away. She lived in a studio apartment so she had a single room that represented the living room, bedroom and kitchen with a separate bathroom. It was terrifying how many times she had woke up with a saucepan in bed with her.

When she was done, she flushed the toilet, splashed some water on her face and emerged from the bathroom to find Hunter still seated calmly waiting for her.

"You lost your phone remember?" He said as if she had not left the room mid conversation.

"Yah I do," she sat with her legs crisscrossed on the bed and hugged a pillow. She needed reinforcement from him and the pillow would have to do for now. "What do you want now?"

"I came bearing gifts," he said holding out roses, "sorry for the way I behaved earlier."

"Seriously look around, do I seem like the kind of girl who is into roses?"

Shrugging, "No but the florist did mention that red roses symbolize passion and I wanted you to have them."

No one ever thought to buy her roses.

She was a tomboy but one's in a while she liked the pretty smell of flowers. Not that she was going to let him know that.

She laughed lightly, "Do you think maybe he was just trying to make a sale and meet his quota of the day?"

"Pretend all you want, I know you love roses," he said with a smug smile that made her want to punch him.

Stretching out her hands, "Okay gimme," burying her face in them she enjoyed the scent for a minute of two. "They do smell really good."

When she looked up at him he seemed to be adjusting himself on the seat.

Smiling up at him, "Things getting a bit tight for you there buddy."

He smiled, you know the smile a lion gives a deer before they pounce on them, "You have no idea." It was now her turn to adjust herself.

"About earlier today I am sorry, things got too intense in the car and it brought up a lot of buried feelings and I did not handle it well."

Curious, "Like what kind of feelings?"

"You know normal, love, lust and this pure blinding passion."

Looking down at the roses, "you do not even know me that well how can you say love?"

He stood up and came and sat beside her on the bed. Taking her hands into his, "that is where you are wrong, I know you, all of you."

## Looking at him, "That is why you are wrong, I am not her whoever you think I am, I am not her. Somehow you are looking for me to fill this gap of someone I did not even know."

Read more.......

# FOREVER US

## BOOK SUMMARY

A trip back home turns to be more than she bargained for.......

Sasha loves her village and all the people even though they tend to stick their noses where they do not belong. She has a lot of problems in her life and is tired of fighting. For the first time in years when she goes back home she finds Logan a ghost from the forgotten past....

Well forgotten to others......

Logan has come back home with one goal in mind to help Sasha face her fears and bring back the girl who used to fight for herself. Maybe along the way make her fall in love with him again. Will he manage to convince her that she is worthy and that they deserve a second chance? Or is he reaching for the impossible.

Whatever the cost he is all in.......

## SNEEK PEEK

## FOREVER US

## PROLOGUE

As the DJ cranked the music up to hip hop, Sasha Aludbe shook her ass regardless of the fact that her dancing and music were not even close to being in sync. It was so long since she had felt this freedom, so long before she'll feel it again. Sasha felt her heart beat steadily to Wiz Khalifa's work hard, play hard. She felt the sweat trickle down the open back of her black dress.

The effects of the black ice she had downed so far were seeping through her blood to her system into her brain. She felt it all, and it was just exhilarating, for the first time in four months she was free.

Time to change the steady twist of her ass into slow adulations of her waist as the DJ played Eminem's No love. Ok, the song was not danceable, but she did not care. Each word, each beat resounded in her brain. She felt a man's hand around her waist just as the DJ picked up the beat. So she as she picked up the steady shaking of her ass on his groin.

She did not care who he was she was here to have fun. Taking a deep breath after the song came to an end she pulled away sweating and breathless. He tried to talk to her, but she ignored him and made her way back to her table. When she got back, she pulled the first long sip of her drink before smiling to her cousin and partner in crime this evening.

"You were having fun," she said with a knowing smile.

Looking at her with appreciation she answered, "Yeah I was. It was incredible and long overdue."

Rolling her eyes," to think I had to drag you out of bed."

"Ok ok I get it thanks, you my dear are the best cousin ever," she said throwing her hands around her cousin's shoulders.

"And you my dear are sweaty and smelly," she responded trying to disengage herself from the hug.

"Oh no you don't," holding on tighter, "this is fun you are smelling take it in. Breath deep."

Laughing at the expression of horror on her cousin's face Sasha removed her hands.

"Why aren't you out there shaking your assets? You look great in that blue dress by the way."

Sasha asked her.

Flipping her hair dramatically, "Ooh stop it."

"Show off," she said fake punching her cousin on the shoulder.

Their bantering slowly died off as they resumed drinking in silence.

"How are you holding up?" her cousin finally asked her. The last four months had been rough what with her stepdad going to prison, children picking on her sister, a mob trying to burn down her mother's house until she had to take care of her kid sister. Cold shivers ran down her body just thinking about it.

Giving her a small smile that she hoped like hell her cousin bought, "Am fine, I'll always be fine."

As if seeing through her act she just nodded, "If you need anything, anything at all just call me."

She tried to hold back tears threatening to flow, "Thanks." She would not cry. She had cried enough for a lifetime.

Laughing through a sniffle that had escaped she raised her bottle in cheers, "To a better end of year."

Her cousin raised her bottle and was about to say something when she remained frozen. Her eyes were wide with shock as if she had seen a ghost.

Before she could turn back to look, she heard the voice she thought she would never hear ever again, "Hello princess."

It seemed like the year just kept serving her shit.

Serving her even the dead.

# INTROSPECT

## BOOK SUMMARY

All Alexander Hart wants do is to bury herself in so much pain she does not feel or hear the Voice of guilt anymore. The only person she ever loved was dead and with a childhood past still haunting her she wants nothing more than to just end it.

But she made a promise.

And she never breaks her promises.

Ever.

Brandon just wants to go on with his life, maybe even find a nice lady and settle down with God by their side. What he does not count on is having to rescue a crazy woman over and over from herself.

What he does not really expect is to fall for her.

She becomes his life.

He becomes her hope....

## SNEEK PEEK

## INTROSPECT

## PROLOGUE

He did not hold back any punches or cut her any slack and that was why she loved him. He knew when the demons from the past came calling she just wanted to fight and she wanted it dirty and bloody. Many times they had carried each other to the emergency room after; both limping and holding their bruised ribs as they used the other for support.

Having him always there for support was the other reason she loved him. He was her rock and she was his. No matter what they had a pact. She was his ride or die bitch.

Now was one of those moment she felt as if an animal had taken over her and she just wanted to beat the hell out of something. To draw blood. As Ivan shifted front and back trying to find his stance she threw the first punch. She knew it was not fair but she did not care. She also knew for sure tomorrow her hands would be sore because she had no gloves on. Catching her off guard still thinking about her bruised hands he landed a punch on her jaw. The pain split through her bones and she felt it explode through her skull like fireworks. Pain was good at least she was feeling something now. Pain she understood. Pain she was familiar with.

Smiling in spite of the pain she said, "Nice touch."

With the smile of almost an animal stalking his prey, "You talking or you fighting."

She threw the next punch and he ducked and that was when it started. In her head she was not fighting Ivan the love of her life. In her head she was taking back control of her life. She was taking back control from her father. As he landed a kick on her ribs she something burst inside her and all she could see was her father standing over her mother as if in triumph after beating her to a plump. As the pain of jab after jab gushed through her it was as if her father was dragging her out of bed and landing punches after punches on her little defenseless body. But this time she was not defenseless or weak or just stupid. This time she knew how to fight and she was protecting herself. As she landed a few jabs and kicks of her own making sure to miss most of the once he was throwing, she felt good. She was in control and no one was taking that away from her. Never ever again.

He was tall, strong and had years of rugby training but she was fast, little and after years and years of self defense classes she could handle herself. They went at it for almost an hour bringing each other down in turns. He tried to throw a kick but she had left him the opening on purpose. So when he went for it she just launched on his shoulder and used it to propel herself onto his neck. Soon they were down and they just lay on the ground panting and hurting like hell but smiling. They just didn't have the energy to stand for another round. She knew Ivan also had his own demon to fight that was why they were so good together. They each had their own past to contend with.

"You ok down there," he asked she could hear the smile in his voice.

Groaning when she tried to get up and felt her ribs hurting like hell, "am fine just don't know if I'll be able to breathe tomorrow you got my ribs real good."

Laughing then groaning as if that laughing was painful he said, "You got my jaw real good. Tomorrow we are going to look like a bunch of banged up cars and after your last stunt I do not even think I can move my neck tomorrow."

Trying to laugh at him but it hurt like hell she answered, "We call the ambulance or you think we can drag each other to the hospital."

"I'll always choose to drag you to the hospital princess."

"You are the only guy I know who after taking a beating from a girl can call her princess."

"Yah because am the only guy who can love you," they both fell silence as they acknowledged the truth in that statement. Despite the pain he stretched his arm and she took his hand into hers and they intertwined their fingers together. "The only guy who loves you so much it actually hurts."

With that statement they closed their eyes and just lay there relishing the pain. Letting it spread through them because it was the only thing they knew. The only thing they trusted. The only thing that was familiar.

Since everything seemed ok it was almost two hours before they made it to the hospital.

Yet it was too late for him.

The last words before he flat lined had been, "I love you so much princess."

She had stood there as if in shock not wanting to believe that it was actually happening to her.

She had killed the love of her life.

She had killed him.

She had killed love.

## SNEEK PEEK

BLOOM

JERKINS

This morning could not come any earlier for him; he had felt restless all night only falling asleep for about two hours before he bolted up awake again. Almost losing Linda had made him realize just how stupid he had been in keeping up with a sham of engagement. Actually he had realized it before and broken it off and was looking for a way to apologize to Linda when he got the phone call.

He could not forget that moment it was as if his heart dropped to his shoes when he had the news and all the way to the hospital he was chanting, please let her be okay.

God had answered his prayers and he was not going to lose her again, not ever even if he had to tie her to his side. That was why not spending the night by her side did not bode well with him but he needed to come up with a strategy on how to tell her how he felt. After screwing up a simple I love you was not going to cut it, he had to do it big and convince her to take a chance on him.

His first alarm rang and he was off the bed, first visiting hours were at eight and if he hurried he would be there thirty minutes early. Maybe he could charm the nurses with his celebrity status to let him see her before her family got there. What he had to do was best done in private.

For some unknown reason he was not surprised to meet Ken by the elevators, they were all in the same hotel. They did not speak just nodded at each other as they got into the elevator and pressed the ground button. They kept the same silence all the way to the hospital and Ken even stopped with him when he purchased some flowers.

He appreciated the effort he was making to accommodate him even if they did not voice it.

When they got to the hospital door he turned to Ken, "Buy me five minutes." He did not know if it would work but he had to give sneaking in a shot.

"Five minutes," Ken said as he stalked off to go charm the nurse on duty.

He even managed to sneak past the desk guard who was busy dozing off and he made it to the room Linda was assigned. As he opened the door he smiled, he felt good about this, and this was the beginning of their love story. The door swung open and the first thing he noticed was that the bed was empty.

No, this could not be happening. He closed the door again to recheck the room number; yeah he had the correct room. He heard a whimper that seemed like a hurt dog nearby as a sob wrenched from deep within, the only reason the room would be empty...

No, no, he could not finish that thought, she was fine. She had to be fine, they had forever together.

He did not even hear the footsteps coming up behind him as Ken approached saying, "Hey buddy your five minutes are up.

He turned around, he was sure he looked like someone shell shocked.

"Empty," he whispered hoarsely then blankness just embraced him and he was out.

##

##

##

##

SNEEK PEEK

DADDY CRUSH

LUCKY SERIES #3

BOOK SUMMARY

Normal people do not just go into the hospital and come back out with babies especially if they are men and they do not know the baby.......

That was the life of Leo a retired navy officer who just wants to enjoy life in solitude until on a routine check he ends up with a baby he did not expect or want. A woman who had come into the hospital wounded claimed that he was her husband and just from the desperate look in her eyes he found himself agreeing. So when the baby mama died he ended up with a baby he did not know where to begin from. Unknowledgeable about kids he would rather assemble guns, plus a baby leads to a daddy crush as they figure it out.

Sabrina knows her sister was in trouble again and when she had called him she took the first bus to the city. When she called and no one picked the phone she knew she was too late for her. Now she has to trace her sister's steps and find her niece or nephew. When she finally finds Leo will she tell him who she is? Will she help him or just pick up the baby and run...................

SNEEK PEEK
Chapter three

Present day.

When you find yourself peeping into a man's house from the bush is when you start questioning all your life choices.

"If you want I can just come down there and steal that baby for you," Roxy said and she knew for her she actually could.

"No thanks just let me handle this in a civilized way. I will just go there and explain to him that I am the relative of that baby and then he will hand him over and we shall walk away," it felt like a cliché talking about civilization while she was a grown ass woman peeping at his house from behind the bush.

"He could be an axe welding murder or just a baby hogging madman," trust her friend to have an over active imagination.

Rolling her eyes even thou she was sure her friend could not see her, "Yes all those are real possibilities."

"Am serious thou if I do not hear from you in the next thirty minutes am coming down there."

"I can live with that," she said but Sabrina still did not hang up, talking to her friend calmed her down.

"Rose did a lot of stupid things but this is by far the most stupid thing she ever did," Roxy added and she did not disagree with her.

Her parents had named her young sister Rose and they had adored her and spoilt her rotten. They had been trying to get a second baby for a while that when she finally came there was celebration. Then when they died it was just the two of them and she kind of picked up from where they left off. By then she was only seventeen and had to raise a ten year old child. When the social services came she pretended she was eighteen so that they would not take her sister away from her. Her parents had been cleaver enough to weasel some cash away for them. Thou it was not much but plus the odd jobs she could get they managed just fine. Rose had never lacked for anything she had made damn sure of that.

Sometimes she thought that she and her parents were actually responsible for the way Rose ended up. She had done so much shit in her life sometimes even disappearing for days on end but she always knew Sabrina would be there for her. So when she had called this time she thought it was just normal sister act until the next day when she called again. To tell her that she was pregnant and heading to the hospital to give birth. Would she please meet her there?

She had taken the first bus to the city. Only she was still too late to save her baby sister this time.

Guilt ate at her, maybe if she had arrived sooner, looked for her more she would not be dead.

Tears she did not know were falling slipped down her cheeks," I still can't believe she is gone," they took a moment just to reflect. Taking a deep breath, "Yet this is not the time to be sad I have a little baby waiting for me to rescue her."

Roxy, "Go get them tiger, and remember am here for you."

As she disconnected the call she was grateful she had a friend like Roxy by her side. She did not know what she would have done without her in the last ten years.

Taking a deep breath she turned to face the house, "well here goes nothing."

*******

Leo was a reasonable and responsible man, he did his duties when he was a kid and when he was in the navy he always had his fellow sailors back. Out there alone with the threat of attack or being high jacked was a real possibility so they always had to be ready. He could work two days straight with only coffee as a backup. Hell he ran five miles daily no problem.

Yet the baby that had been crying continuous for the last two hours put him on edge. Several times he wanted to just pick her up and place her outside. Or drop her off at the nearest hospital. Or better yet just call the policemen and tell them the truth that he had technically kidnapped a baby from the hospital. All those were better options than listening to baby Bella cry over and over again for no reason. Every time he thought about it all he saw were the mother's desperate eyes so he continued to rock her as he paced around.

It was as if she knew that her mama was dead. As if she knew that he did not have a clue about what he was doing. The lady at the store had shown him how to change diapers and mix her food when he went to pick up supplies. He thought he had done it right, making sure the milk was at the right temperature before feeding her.

Suddenly she burped and just like that stopped crying and fell asleep.

Peace at last, he thought with a sigh. Slowly he placed her on the bed where he had shoved chairs around to keep her from rolling off. If she was going to live here he had to get her a crib soon

After placing her very gently on the bed afraid sudden movements would wake her up, he just sat by the bedside looking at her. Poor baby, she had a tough life ahead of her, he thought. He just hoped the demons of the mama's past would not come to haunt her in future.

He would protect her the best way he could, he thought as he stood up and started to straighten up. It was amazing how quickly a house could get dirty with a baby in it. They had only been around two hours and it was like everything was dirty. He liked his house clean, he was not OCD by any chance, the Navy had just taught him that everything had its place. He loved everything being in its rightful place.

He was cleaning up the kitchen sink when the doorbell rung. Afraid it would wake up Bella after it had taken him hours to put her to sleep he rushed to answer.

A short, curvaceous woman holding two paper bags stood by the door. The first thing he noted about her was that she looked harassed.

Before he could ask her if he could help her she had shouldered her way in.

"Well hope you are hungry, I make a mean pancake," she said as she proceeded to the kitchen as if she owned the place. He was still standing there gapping after her when he had pans move around in the kitchen.

Well it seemed today was the day strange people walked into his life, he thought as he closed the door and followed her to the kitchen.

This ought to be interesting.

## SNEEK PEEK

## TRUDGING THROUGH 24

## CHAPTER ONE

## SIMPLE FACTS

There was one article published that being twenty four is the hardest part of life. I am inclined to believe that article. After all the article was written by a scientist and science is never wrong.

The one thing I wish I was taught when I was younger was that no one will ever save you. You have to save yourself.

People will let you down and break your heart.

It is going to happen and when you are down there, they will give you advice that you do not want to listen too.

You are not the first to go through this.

He was not worth it.

Like that is going to help with the pain. I know he was not worth it why do you think am coiled up here bawling my eyes out like a baby on PCP? Dumbass.

So today right here right now I am here to tell you that it will get better. I know I know I am one of the dumbasses.

It has to get better or what is even the point in the pain anyway? What is the lesson I am supposed to learn from this? What is the point to life? What is my purpose?

When I was sixteen I knew what I wanted to be, exactly what I was going to be.

I was going to be a neuroseurgeon like Ben Carson, ok maybe I do not know the correct spelling for neurosurgeon that does not mean I would not have made a damn good one. Probably I would have been the very best. The field of medicine lost a great doctor the day I did not pass my exam enough to join the medical school. There loss. Or so I keep telling myself.

The moment I turned eighteen years old all my problems started.

I just wish someone could take me back to that moment I stepped out of high school with all the knowledge I have now. Trust me the world has not been a soft teacher. It's like the aspect of teach her and let her learn at her own pace left when I was a child. Right now it's more like teach her and flog her until she learns the lesson.

Adulthood; I am rolling my eyes right now.

When I was a child I had such simple goals.

I wanted to be an adult so that I could get the drumstick part of the chicken. That part was reserved for the adults, us kids were served the wings and if people were many, legs. Another reason I wanted to be an adult was so that I could get to put as much sugar in tea as possible. My mum used to put sugar when she was cooking so no matter how little she put that was all you were getting. Touching the sugar dish resulted in flogging of a lifetime. I used to feel like I was being punished and given tasteless tea.

Right now I drink tea with no sugar and it is my choice. That says something about life ironies.

So we have come to the decision that I did not want so much as a kid, if you would have given me ten chicken drumsticks and a bag full of sugar I would be a very happy kid.

When I was in my teens all I wanted was to be a doctor and I also failed to achieve that so there is that. But now that I hear doctors are on strike for poor pay I am like maybe it was for the best.

What has the world come to when doctors and pilots are striking? Those were the jobs we were told as kids to work hard for. When you were found sketching out a drawing in the corner somewhere it was torn in pieces and a science book shoved in your hand. Like drawing is bad, reading science to be doctor good. Now to see all the doctors running and throwing stones at the government I am like you are supposed to be the smartest of us. What's up with that?

Okay I am rumbling back to the point.

What was I even talking about?

Ooh right, the terrors of being a twenty four year old girl or is it woman?

That's even confusing. Just like everything about the age itself.

Okay so I was saying that this was the age I thought I would be graduating with a degree in Engineering. Very fancy right? I thought so too.

When I did not get into medicine I thought hey why not go for the second best. Engineering. It did not matter that it had two of the things that scared me most in life. Wires and electricity.

I was never a curious kid; not in any aspect of life. When mum said do not watch the soap opera in the television when I am gone I watched cartoon until she came back. Okay maybe I peeked a little but I absolutely did not watch it.

Dad said do not touch my stuff when I am away I would just rearrange it so that I could wipe the table. But whatever I saw when I was cleaning does not count. Okay maybe I was nosy but I was never curious about how the television worked or even the principle behind how the iron box worked.

As long as it worked I was happy and my solution to all the not working stuff? Hit it till it works. With four years of education tucked under my belt in engineering school that is still my number one policy. Works like a charm.

Look at me rumbling again.

So we have established am not really a good student.

Twenty four was supposed to be my year of graduating and getting my first job and moving out on my own and being my own woman. Then life happened. And it always happens in order.

• First on the list, after high school there are boys. There is just that one boy who has also finished high school and he loves you so much he is going to build you a house. You will have 2.5 kids and live happily ever after. You are happy, he is happy. Clouds are flouting all over and everything is rainbows and unicorns and ice-cream. Nothing can ever beat ice-cream. I am here to tell you Bullshit. It's all bullshit.

He will get your virginity maybe even give you a kid if you are unlucky. Then he will skip out on you. Ooh some stick around, for a year or so then like smoke gone. I know its harsh honey but reality sucks just got to get used to it now.

Then from there your life goes downhill and it always goes down in three ways. People love having options so I am giving you some;

1) You love the guy he leaves you not now maybe, but soon. Look out it's always around the corner.

2) He gets you pregnant and leaves or uses the kid as an excuse to come back to your life after he left and be like that is my kid I have a right to be in his life. Then he messes up your life for six months then he leaves again. Okay why was this not option one?

3.) You realize the greatest thing in life is sex and you want to have it as often as you can with as many men as you can.

Ha-ha none of this happened to me, especially not number three. Wink wink.

Anyway from that its downhill you go and before you know it you are asking yourself who am I? What are my principles? When did my life get here?

• Second on the list are people and parents. They have expectations, they have advice and most important they know more than you do. They are great; especially our parents come on without them we will not be here.

Okay what was I talking about? The landlord came by with a bunch of forms for me to fill.

Landlords. Forms. Bureaucracy. Triple eye roll.

If I deviate from the topic again bear with me.

Okay parents. They are great people. They have feed you, clothed you and put a roof over your head for twenty four years. If you are still living at home raise your hands. I am. Points to them when you get home drunk in the morning and you pretend you are not drunk they believe you. Or pretend to believe you. Come on they were not born yesterday.

Parents are great all round.

But then in comes the expectations.

And more expectations.

Especially if you are a good kid and passed your exams. I am like why is life punishing me for being smart. I did everything right, I woke up at four took a cold shower and slept very late just so I could finish that assignment.

Okay this was before I realized that there are romantic novels, I did all that but this time just to finish that one more book. Ha-ha.

Novels are the greatest thing on earth. And coffee is great too. Novels plus coffee equals pure bliss.

Where was I again? This book is as confused as me.

Okay so I did everything right and achieved all I could in life at that time. I joined engineering school and people be looking at me like you are doing engineering that is so awesome you are so smart. Parents are looking at you like you are going to get a really good job. Cha-Ching. All our problems are over my daughter is smart.

I am like hello guy's school is kicking my butt all the way through Sunday. I do not even know if I will graduate in the first place. All the fails I see on the notice board when I go to look at my results can make a girl blind.

And people be like she is going to get a first class honor work at Safaricom be rich and live in some really big building. You are so great.

I should point it out to them that there are no jobs in Kenya; some people tarmac for five years before they are employed. Others end up counting cars for twelve hundred or twelve dollars a day. I did not totally do that recently. Sigh.

As a people pleaser all I want to do is do better be better, but I can't. Not that I do not want to. Maybe if I want to I can study more so that my grades would not have so many fails. Sigh.

Someone hide me in there country.

• Third thing on their list is money and odd jobs; they literally run away from you and you have got to be creative to make even a little. You are grown up now so no one gives you money anymore for small things. Ever.

You want that pretty pink perfume that is just 500 shillings? Isn't it just pretty? We all want it, deal with it, you are not getting it unless you raise your own money. And trust me when you work for that money you will not buy a perfume. Too painful. So it ends up being a full cycle. Life. Sigh.

You hear people have stolen millions even billions and you are like where have this people got all this money from? I also want to steal some please. I do not have money for dinner and I do not know the last time I had some water. Am so thirsty and some idiot goes ahead to steal millions and billions of taxpayer's money!

What really pisses me off is that you hear doctors have gone on strike. People are dying in hospitals and new born babies are dying as soon as they are born. They are innocent they did not do anything to deserve what they are going through and you find some idiot stole health care money and am like really fool. Really!

You steal money the doctors do not get paid a new born child dies. You killed that baby. You actually strangled them. You steal money; new equipment not delivered an old man fighting for life gets dead. You are a murderer.

You monster.

Then the people's choice seat there and be like we are looking into it. You are looking into crap.

You are crap.

The opposition be like; we told you so your government is crap.

I am like; we know you know. Do something about it don't just stand there and do nothing,

And opposition be like; they choose.

We know we are stupid, you know we are stupid. Help us before we decide to help our self.

Government. Eye roll.

Politics. Triple eye roll.

Just look at that adorable face you killed.

Please do not come for me at my door. I have security cameras. (Laughing like it's a conspiracy.)

I love the truth.

Okay where was I? Am so sorry I got sidetracked.

I was giving you advice on how to go through the most difficult age on earth.

Okay those are the three major points you need to navigate that if you manage this life would be better. Find a way I do not believe in much but I do believe in you. You are a champion. Okay am done for today see you tomorrow.

Sorry to some famous writer who said I had to get to ten pages a day I got tired and am hungry. Tullos. Is that even how that is spelled? Who cares? Food and movies await my return. I never learn. Sigh.

Okay I went to buy food and I followed some mad man home. Tell you all about it tomorrow. Goodnight.
