 
Chasing Shadows

A Son's Revenge

B T Coll

# Author's Note

A Son's Revenge is a work of fiction. Names, characters and incidents are entirely fictitious.

Copyright B T Coll ©2017

Smashwords Edition

All Rights Reserved

# Chapter One

#

The car door slammed shut with such force that it sent a shudder down the old man's spine and he instinctively tightened his grip on the steering wheel. "If he finds out about us we're dead." he suddenly declared, glancing over at the young man now sitting in the passenger seat. "Just drive." the young man instructed through gritted teeth. He didn't need to be reminded of what kind of trouble they would be in if anyone found out what they had done.

As the old black escort drove off, a deadly silence engulfed the two passengers. They were both worried and with good cause. They had just kidnapped the teenage granddaughter of Robert McKenzie. Big Rab McKenzie was well known in the area and many a person would willingly give him information in exchange for some money. Money was not the only thing that could persuade people to talk to him. Money was the carrot and the stick was much more than anyone could imagine. No-one crossed Big Rab and lived to tell the tale.

The old man glanced over at the passenger and shook his head. "In my day, no-one had the balls to do what you just did." he said and the young man felt his anger surfacing. "What do you mean? You are as much involved in all this as I am and don't you forget it." he replied and the old man nodded his head in agreement. "I didn't mean anything. I was just saying how much things have changed. In my day, no-one crossed Big Rab McKenzie and lived." The young man threw his head back and laughed. "He's not the man he used to be. Stop worrying. Keep your mouth shut and we'll be fine."

The old man shook his head and let out a huge sigh. The young man's cavalier attitude worried him. This was not some silly game. This was serious. Big Rab McKenzie, as far as he was concerned, was still as ruthless today as he was in his younger days. Why had he agreed to this dangerous and idiotic scheme? If they got away with this, then that would be a first. He had never heard of anyone ever getting one over on Big Rab.

"Things didn't quite work out the way you planned. Did they?" the old man asked and the young man shook his head. "Just a little more complicated. Don't worry about it. I will sort things out, just as I promised." he replied. The plan had to be changed to accommodate their extra guest who had become involved in what would have been a simple enough kidnapping. "What you going to do with the young lass?" the old man asked as he looked into his mirror to make sure no-one was following them. "I'll think of something." the young man replied not quite sure of what he was going to do. She was an unwanted complication and had to be dealt with. It was bad enough trying to keep one teenage girl under lock and key but two would be a nightmare and there would be more chance of things going wrong. The young man knew he had to think of something and quick.

"Drop me off around the corner at the pub. I need a drink." he instructed and as the car slowed down and came to a stop he turned towards the old man. "Remember. Keep your mouth shut. If you don't we're both dead." The old man nodded with sadness in his eyes. "It won't be long before we get the money and then we can go off somewhere just as I promised. Just keep your cool granddad and we'll be ok."

The old man reached out and gently touched his grandson's arm. "You know it isn't too late to call all of this off. We can let them go and no-one would be any the wiser." The young man roughly shrugged off his grandfather's arm. "It's far too late for that as well you know, so keep that trap of yours shut and we'll soon be rolling in more money than you've ever seen."

The old man looked at the sadness in his grandson's eyes and knew that it wasn't all about the money. "What would your father say?" he asked and immediately saw the anger his grandson's face. "Are you trying to be funny? Remember if it wasn't for that bastard he would still be alive today." he replied shocked at how his grandfather had the nerve to talk about his father. He knew his father would be only too pleased to see Big Rab get his just deserts.

The old man shook his head. "Now Joseph you don't know if Big Rab had anything to do with your father's murder. Not for sure. Your father had a lot of enemies and any one of them could have killed him." As the young man opened the car door he turned to his grandfather before saying "It was that bastard McKenzie. You know it and I know it. Don't worry I'm not going to do anything to the girls, just ransom them off for more money than you could ever imagine. Now give me bloody peace." With that the car door slammed shut with such force that the old man jumped out of his skin. He was far too old for all of this and had a bad feeling about the whole idiotic scheme. Big Rab McKenzie was not a man to be crossed and he suddenly felt an ice-cold shiver travel down his spine with the thought of what the next few days might bring.

# Chapter Two

The ransom note arrived in the mail first thing in the morning and lay behind the door to well into the afternoon before Big Rab McKenzie rose from his bed. Yawning and scratching his large beer belly he picked up the mail and made his way into the kitchen to make himself a coffee. He had arrived home at 4am that morning and was now suffering from the most horrendous hangover that he had ever encountered. Why had he drunk so much and how the hell did he get home? He tried hard to remember but his brain was foggy and he simply shrugged his shoulders. Groaning he switched on the kettle and rummaged through the drawers looking for some painkiller. Swallowing down the pills, he groaned again before making himself some coffee and sitting at the kitchen table.

Hearing footsteps on the stairs he shouted on his granddaughter. "Jennifer, sweetheart, is that you?" "Its Belinda actually." the young red-haired woman announced as she slowly made her way down the large winding staircase and into the kitchen. Big Rab sat with his mouth hanging open. "Who the hell are you and what the hell are you doing in my house?" he said rising to his feet. "I'm Belinda." the young woman replied smiling at him. By the look on his face she realised that he didn't remember her. "Belinda from the club. Last night. Remember."

Big Rab rushed over to her side with a look on his face that startled her. "Whoever the fuck you are, I want your fucking arse out of my house this minute." he screamed. "Ok. Keep your cool. I'll need my money first and some extra for a taxi." she told him as she made her way towards the telephone on the mahogany table, in the corner of the room.

She had no sooner lifted the telephone before Big Rab grabbed it out of her hand. "You'll get no fucking money from me. Now get out of my house." he screamed at her and for a second she flinched before she composed herself and stared at him defiantly. She grabbed the receiver from his hand and he cursed before roughly grabbing her by her arm and squeezing with all his might until she screamed in pain. Ignoring her screams, he pushed her out into the hallway. She pulled her arm away from him and looked straight into his eyes. "Watch what you're doing. That hurts." she told him, rubbing her now red and painful arm. "What the hell is the matter with you? You were pleased with me last night so what has changed?" she asked finding herself confused. "I woke up and I'm sober. Now get the fuck out of my house." he demanded and she found herself being pushed along the hallway towards the front door.

"Wait a minute. I want my money." she demanded. "I'm not going anywhere without my money." "What fucking money?" he asked as they reached the front door. "£200. That's what I charge and that's what you owe me." she told him as she stood in front of him and folded her arms across her chest. "Fuck off. I don't pay whores." he replied and pulled open the front door. "You better pay me or I'll tell Pete." she warned him. "Who? Pete Henderson. Get yourself to fuck." he screamed at her before pushing her out of the house and slamming the front door shut.

Her last remark on threatening him with wee Pete Henderson made him laugh. The pimp was all of 5 feet and had no real muscle to back him up. Big Rab McKenzie did not need to pay a whore to have a good time. There were plenty of women out there that would please him without him having to spend a penny on them.

"I'm telling Pete and you're in big trouble mate." Belinda screamed through the letterbox. Big Rab ignored her and a few minutes later she was walking down the driveway towards the front gate still screaming abuse at him.

Returning to the kitchen, he looked at the mail on the table in front of him and something caught his eye. It was a large brown envelope addressed to him and marked 'URGENT'. Tearing open the envelope he read the note that would change his world forever.

If you want your granddaughter returned alive

£500,000 left inside green bin at gates of Kelvingrove Park 8pm Friday night.

No police or she will be returned in a hundred different pieces.

Big Rab read the note again and again, not understanding how this could be. Jennifer was safely tucked up in bed, he was sure of it. He checked on her when he came in from the club or did he?

Rushing upstairs he ran towards her bedroom and seeing that the door was shut, he gently knocked as he had so often done. Teenage girls always wanted their privacy and she had insisted that he always knocked and waited for her to open the door whenever he wanted to speak to her. Placing his ear against the door and not hearing any movement, he quickly flung the door open.

He stood dumbfounded staring into the empty bedroom. Her bed had not been slept in and looking around the room saw that there were no signs of a struggle. So, she was not taken from her bed, by her captives. How did they get her?

He glanced at the ransom note in his hand and crumbled it tightly in his fist and cursed. His beloved granddaughter had been kidnapped. He felt the anger rising inside him and wondered who would have the audacity to do this to him. Whoever it was would pay dearly for this but first he had to get his granddaughter back.

Jennifer McKenzie was 14 years old and had been living with her grandparents for over 10 years ever since her father murdered her mother when she was barely four years old. The details of her how her mother died were never fully disclosed to Jennifer but she knew it was a violent death and now her father was serving a life sentence.

With her long dark hair, freckled face and slender figure she was the picture of her mother. Or so she had been told. Not remembering her mother was a sadness that she would have to bear for the rest of her life. For some reason, there were no photographs of her mother and anyone she asked, were very reluctant to speak of her. Her grandparents had painted a lovely picture of her but knowing her grandfather she wondered if in fact it was true. One day, she had told herself many times, she would demand to know the truth.

Her father, she remembered, as a giant of a man with dark brown hair and huge hands. She wondered why she could remember her father and not her mother. What did it all mean? Her father looked like a younger version of her grandfather and she often wondered how he looked now after being in prison for so many years.

Her grandfather would never allow her to visit him, not that she ever asked. She hated him for taking her mother away from her and as far as she was concerned he could rot in jail for the rest of his life.

She loved her grandfather more than anyone in the world even her grandmother, who had walked out on them, just over a year ago. Why? She didn't know. Her grandmother Rose had often called the house to speak to her but she always refused which seemed to please her grandfather. She always wanted to please him as he was the only constant person in her life. Without him she would have nothing.

She loved living in the big house with its own swimming pool. She loved all the expensive clothes that he bought for her. She loved all the money he gave her. She loved all the expensive jewelry he bought her and all the holidays he took her on. But most of all she loved him with all her heart and although she often heard people talking negatively about him and whispers of what he got up to she loved him anyway. She often wondered how he made his money and titbits of information she came across, made her realise that it was not all legal and above board but she didn't care. He was her world and she was sure that she was his.

On reading the ransom note Big Rab's first reaction was to call the police but he stopped himself. What good were the fucking police? They had been trying to nail him for one thing or another over the years and he knew that they would have good laugh at his expense. NO! He would deal with this himself. Lifting the telephone, the first person he spoke to was Paul Donnelly, his right-hand man.

The telephone fell silent when he told him that he had received a ransom note demanding £500,000 for the safe return of his granddaughter. "This is Wednesday Paul and they want it by Friday night." Rab told him. "Fuck sake! Have you called the police?" his right-hand man and most trusted friend asked. "Police! Why the fuck would I do that? I'm not having those bastards laughing at me. No. We can sort this out ourselves. I want you to get everyone over here pronto." Big Rab demanded with anger in his voice. "Sure. I'll make sure everyone is there. Don't you worry now; we will get this sorted out." Paul Donnelly replied with an anxious voice. "I don't know who would have the balls to do this to me but when I find him his balls will belong to me." Big Rab screamed angrily before slamming the telephone down. He walked over to the sofa where he fell to his knees and cried. For the first time in his life he cried.

# Chapter Three

As Rab McKenzie's top men filed into the dining room everyone kept their head bowed; too scared to look him in the eyes. When they were all seated at the large oval mahogany table in the middle of the room, Big Rab scanned all of their faces one by one. He didn't trust any of them and if one of them was responsible for the kidnapping he was sure he would detect it in their face.

They all looked shifty and nervous but he knew that they were scared of him and that was how he liked to run his business. The boss had to be so intimidating that no-one would have the balls to cross him. A few had tried in the past to double cross him and they soon found out how he dealt with traitors. They had all disappeared of the face of the earth and he made sure their battered and tortured bodies would never be found. He knew he had to keep a tight hold on his men and run a very secure network otherwise some other big shot would try to take over his business.

Big Rab stood up and banged his hands on the table. "My granddaughter Jennifer has been kidnapped and a ransom is to be paid by 8pm Friday night." he announced and immediately everyone gasped. "I want everyone on the streets. I want this bastard caught and I want my granddaughter found." The silence in the room was deafening. Everyone was shocked and couldn't believe that someone had the nerve to do this to their boss. Whoever it was that did this, was a dead man walking.

Paul Donnelly spoke first. He was a thin, feeble looking man in his late 60's but as far as Big Rab was concerned he was the only man in his organsisation that he could trust. He had been his right-hand man for over 30 years and they were like brothers. He was the only one who could ever speak his mind and the only one that he would ever go to for advice.

"Me and some of the boys dragged Peter Gallagher from his bed and beat the shit out of him. We have threated John Wilson and old Tommy Brown with a gun to their heads. No-one and I mean no-one seems to know anything about your granddaughter." Paul said with sadness in his eyes.

Big Rab once again slammed his hands hard down on the table. Most of the men around the table flinched at this action and some kept their eyes to the floor, too scared to look him in the eye. They all knew by experience that if Big Rab was angry then there would be consequences and none of them wanted to be singled out by him.

"Someone knows something. What about Mike Chisholm?" he asked. "He's still in jail and will be for the next 10 years." Paul told him. "He could have arranged this, from jail." Big Rab said and Paul Donnelly shook his head. "He hasn't got the brains." "What about that guy two years ago? You know him that we burned down his shop for not paying protection money. What was his name?" Big Rab asked trying hard to remember. "Bill Richards. We ran him out of town. Last I heard, he's living somewhere in Newcastle. I can send someone down to trace him if you want." Paul Donnelly informed him. Big Rab shook his head. "Someone knows who this bastard is." he said through gritted teeth. "Could it be one of the big wigs in Edinburgh?" a voice asked.

There were gasps as everyone turned to look at the man who had the audacity to speak out. Big Rab surprised everyone by simply shrugging his shoulders. "I want everyone out investigating. Don't come back until you find this bastard. I need my granddaughter back safely. There will be a handsome reward for anyone that can bring me information." he announced and with that everyone jumped out of their seats and filed out of the door. They all knew how generous Big Rab could be and every one of them wanted to be indispensable to him.

Soon the room was empty apart from Big Rab and his trusted right-hand man Paul Donnelly. "Listen Rab, the longer we leave this before contacting the police the less likely we'll find her."

Big Rab turned away from him and walked over towards the front window and stared outside, as if in a trance. "No police." he told him. "Not yet anyway. We will try and deal with this ourselves first and if nothing comes to light, then and only then will I call the bloody police."

Paul Donnelly nodded and made his way to the front door before turning and as an afterthought asked. "Have you told Rose yet?" Big Rab turned to face him and the dark look on his face made Paul Donnelly realise that he had asked too personal a question. "No." was all that he replied. "Look Rab I don't want to interfere but you have to let her know." he said suddenly finding his insides beginning to shake. "I don't have to do nothing." Big Rab replied through gritted teeth. "For God's sake Jennifer is her granddaughter too. She has to know about this." Paul Donnelly told him before making a quick exit before he had the chance to reply.

Big Rab knew that Paul was right and lifted the telephone to make the most difficult call in his life. "Hello Rose." he said on hearing her voice on the other end of the telephone. The sound of her estranged husband's voice made her shudder. Why was he calling her? "What do you want?" she asked with more than a hint of anger in her voice. "It's about Jennifer." he told her suddenly finding his voice beginning to quiver. "Jennifer. What about her? Has there been an accident?" she screamed down the telephone suddenly feeling her heart begin to flutter with anxiety. "She's missing." he told her. "Missing! What do you mean missing? Has she run away?" she asked wondering if her granddaughter had suddenly come to her senses and was making her way home to her. "She's been kidnapped." he told her.

There were a few seconds of silence before a tirade of abuse was screamed down the telephone at him. "You bastard! You are supposed to look after her and protect her. I knew it was a mistake for her to live with you. Send a car for me NOW!" she demanded and with that the line went dead.

# Chapter Four

DI Watson and DS Wilson arrived at Rab McKenzie's home, on the outskirts of Milngavie and stopped at the large wrought iron gates to press the intercom and announce their arrival. "Who is going to do the honours?" George Wilson asked. "Who do you think?" Mike Watson replied. "OK I will." George replied getting out of the car and walking over to press the intercom. After several moments, it was apparent that no-one was going to let them in and he returned to the car. "What now?" he asked. Mike Watson shook his head. "Maybe we need an appointment?" he replied and the two detectives laughed at the absurdity of having to make an appointment to see a criminal who should be locked behind bars. "Suppose it's back to the station. If they won't let us in to speak to them then there's nothing we can do." he replied starting up the car again.

Just then a black Mercedes screeched along the road towards them and came to a sudden stop behind their car. The back door opened and a middle-aged woman jumped out of the back seat and ran towards them. "Have you found her yet?" she screamed. "And you are?" Mike asked. "Rose McKenzie." she replied. "I'm the one who called you. My granddaughter has been kidnapped." "Mrs McKenzie we are here to get some details but rest assured we are doing everything we can." Mike told her. Rose McKenzie pressed the intercom. No reply. "We have tried but no-one seems to be at home." George told her. "The bastards at home." she replied and George raised his eyebrows. "Open this fucking gate now Rab or I'll tear your bleeding eyes out." she screamed into the intercom. Two seconds later the gates opened and she jumped into the back seat of the Mercedes again.

The car reversed before swinging around their car and driving off through the gates. Mike followed and they were soon driving up the long monoblocked driveway towards Big Rab's house in the distance.

The house was built in a Tudor style of black and white with harled brick under a slate roof and was more than a little impressive. "What a bleeding house." DS George Wilson announced with a whistle. "Being a top criminal sure has its advantages. I wonder how much a place like this would have set him back."

As they neared the house George turned to Mike and said. "Look I can see an indoor swimming pool through those windows. Imagine that your own pool." DI Mike Watson looked over at his colleague and shook his head. "People like this make me sick to my stomach. We all know how he gets his money but we just can't pin anything on him. One day George, we will get a lucky break and this bastard will be sent down for a very long time." he said with more than a hint of anger in his voice.

As they neared the front door of the house they could see Rose McKenzie battering on the door with such force as it shook on its hinges. "Open this door NOW." she screamed and as the two detectives reached her she turned to them and said. "I swear I'm gonna kill him right here in front of you if he doesn't open that bloody door."

When Big Rab eventually opened the front door, he felt the full force of her hand as it swung across his face. "You took your bloody time you bastard." she screamed. DI Watson and DS Wilson watched in astonishment.

A few seconds later Big Rab was pushed out of the way as she rushed past him into the house. She ran up the stairs to her granddaughter's bedroom and a few moments later was back downstairs screaming abuse at her estranged husband.

The two detectives stood at the front door trying to stop themselves from sniggering. Big Rab was all of 6ft and was built like a tank while his wife Rose was only 5ft and slim built. Yet she managed to give him a good slap around the face and a tongue-lashing.

"Can we come in Mr McKenzie? I'm Detective Inspector Watson and this is my colleague Detective Sargent Wilson. We believe your granddaughter has been kidnapped. We would like to get some information, if you don't mind." DI Watson said noticing that the red mark on Big Rab McKenzie's cheek now seemed to be spreading across his face. "You can both bugger off." he told them before slamming the door shut in their faces.

As they turned to leave they could hear shouting and swearing coming from inside and the front door suddenly swung open. Rose McKenzie ushered them inside before slamming the door shut again. "What you doing woman? I don't want them here." Big Rab told her in a firm voice but Rose ignored him and told the two detectives to please come in. "Ignore that bastard." she told them glaring at her estranged husband. "I called them. I don't care what you say. Jennifer is the most important person in my life and I want her found."

She beckoned for Mike and George to follow her. "Please come through to the sitting room." she told them. The two detectives glanced at each other before following her along the hallway; trailed closely by Rab McKenzie. They both noticed the enormous and very lavish white staircase in the center of the hall and gasped at the pure extravagance of it all. Mike noticed the CCTV cameras dotted around the house and was sure that a man like this had a very sophisticated security system. As the two detectives entered the sitting room they were both taken aback by the luxurious surroundings.

"Please take a seat, detectives." Rose said pointing to one of several large brown leather sofas. As he sat down Mike could not help noticing the large marble fireplace. It was flanked by alcoves, with display shelves that were filled with very expensive Royal Doulton figurines. Glancing around, he felt sick to his stomach with the pure opulence of the place. With its pure white shag pile carpet, white and gold walls and gold draped curtains, it looked like a room fit for a king. The sitting room had patio doors that opened into a large and very impressive landscaped garden. Out of the corner of his eye he was sure he could see a tennis court in the far distance. The whole thing made him sick. How could one man amass such a fortune? Why was Rab McKenzie not put away long ago? He took a deep breath and tried to relax there was no use him having so much pent up resentment. One day Rab McKenzie would get what's coming to him but in the meantime, there was an investigation to complete.

"Could we have a recent photograph of Jennifer?" DS Wilson asked glancing at Mike and knowing exactly what he was thinking. Immediately Rose McKenzie rushed over to the cabinet and brought out some photograph albums. On looking through the albums she pulled out a school photograph and gave it to DS Wilson. "This was taken about a year ago. She hasn't changed much since this photograph. Please find her." she said with anguish in her voice. She held onto the photograph of Jennifer and stared at it for a few moments before handing it to George.

"When was the last time you saw Jennifer" DI Watson asked taking out a notebook from his jacket pocket. Rose McKenzie hung her head before telling him that she hadn't actually seen her granddaughter for well over nine months. "I've tried to call her but for some reason she won't take my calls." she said sobbing into her handkerchief. "It's because of that bastard." she continued glaring at her estranged husband who shook his head and made his way into the kitchen to get out of her way. "We are separated and have been for some time. "she whispered. "Right. Can you give my colleague details of any places that she might have visited recently and the names of her friends?" DI Watson said handing his notebook to DS Wilson.

As soon as Rose began to speak DI Watson walked into the kitchen to talk to Big Rab who by this time was standing in the kitchen staring out of the window. "Can we have the ransom note for DNA purposes Mr McKenzie?" he asked and as he held out his hand, Big Rab pulled the crumpled pieced of paper from his trouser pocket and handed it to him. "They want the money by Friday. How the hell do I get that amount of money at such short notice." he said shaking his head. Mike raised his eyebrows and couldn't help thinking if he sold some of those expensive figurines in his sitting room he could very easily raise the money.

"We don't recommend that you pay any money. Let us do our job." Mike told him. "Is there anything we need to know about Jennifer? Were you having any difficulty with her lately? Did she seem to have changed in anyway or hang about with different friends? Was there any sort of argument that would have made her run off?" he asked and Big Rab shook his head. "Jennifer is a good girl. She has never been in any kind of trouble. What the hell are you suggesting?" he replied with indignation in his voice.

DI Watson took a step backward when he saw the anger in the other man's face. "Look Mr McKenzie I'm not suggesting anything. I was just trying to piece together a picture of Jennifer that's all." he replied before turning on his heels and walking back into the sitting room.

Mike gave George Wilson a nod to say that it was time to go. As the two detectives walked towards the door Rose grabbed DS Wilson by the arm. "Please find her. She means the world to me. I don't care what you think of my husband. Jennifer is a sweet girl." He patted her arm. "We will do everything we can to bring her home safely. Now if you can think of anything else that we should know or if you receive any more notes from the kidnapper, please call me at the station." he told her and watched as she dabbed the tears from her eyes with a handkerchief. "I will detective. But please hurry. Time is running out."

The detectives said their goodbyes before heading back to the station. Back in the car George couldn't help letting out another whistle. "That man must be worth a fortune." he said and Mike gave a grunt. "How many lives were ruined for him to have a place like that? That scum of a man should be rotting in prison George. How the hell he's got away with it for so long is a bloody mystery." Mike replied shaking his head. "Because Mike. He is very clever. A man like that never gets his own hands dirty; he has plenty of men only too willing to do his dirty work for him." George replied and Mike laughed. "You know there is an old head on your very young shoulders my boy." Mike replied and now George laughed. "For heaven's sake Mike, I'm not that much younger than you."

As they reached the front gates they weren't sure how to get out. Wondering whether they had to press another button they were taken aback when the gates swung open by themselves. Obviously, someone in the big house was watching them and opened the gates to let them out. "Do you think we will find this girl alive?" George asked. "Who knows but I hope so. She's just a young girl and doesn't deserve to get mixed up in her grandfather's business. That's the downside of being a successful criminal, too many enemies." Mike replied and George nodded his head in agreement.

They drove towards Glasgow to return to Pitt Street Police Station to inform DCI James Carmichael of their discoveries. The new DCI had only been appointed a month before and came from Perth and was more than a little unfamiliar with Glasgow. The truth be known he had only taken the post up because of his recent divorce which started off reasonably but ended very acromonisly. His three daughters were grown up now and married with children of their own, so there was no reason to stay around the area and he jumped at the chance to come to Glasgow and start a new life for himself. He was sad his marriage had ended after 35 years but his wife's constant affairs became too much to bear. When her latest conquest turned out to be his younger brother he had flipped and decided then and there that his marriage was truly over. Now living in a one-bedroom apartment in the Merchant City area of Glasgow, he wondered what his new life would bring him.

DCI Carmichael met Mike and George as they came through the doors of the police station. "We were just on our way to see you sir." Mike stated. "Well follow me gentlemen and let's get down to business." the DCI said leading them down the corridor towards his room. "Well what do we have?" the DCI asked closing the door and pointing to the chairs to indicate that they should both be seated. He himself sat behind the old oak desk that had belonged to his predecessor. "Begin." he instructed and the two detectives glanced at each other. "Well as you know the granddaughter was discovered missing after her grandfather received a ransom note. Which I will send to forensics for DNA traces." Mike Watson said and the DCI nodded in agreement. "Anyway, when we arrived the grandmother was at the house creating blue murder. The grandparents are separated and have a great deal of animosity towards each other." DCI Carmichael thought for a moment. "Is there any reason why their granddaughter would be kidnapped?" he asked. "Well the grandfather is Robert McKenzie, a well know gangster in the area with many enemies here and in Edinburgh, we understand." Mike told him. "Never heard of him." The DCI said shaking his head. "But I will look him up and get the background on him." he told the two detectives and they nodded in unison as if confirming that it would be a good idea. The DCI raised his eyebrows.

"We have been trying to nail him for years now. He's mainly into drugs, prostitution and money laundering. But really anything you can think of that's illegal he is involved in. However, at the moment we can't prove anything." Mike said with more than a little frustration in his voice.

"We have until Friday night before the ransom is to be paid." George interrupted and this time it was DCI Carmichael who nodded. "Well we don't have much time then. I want you two to carry on with this case. The other detectives are all tied up with cases of their own but if you really need help I can take one or two of them off to help you." the DCI told them. "I think we'll be fine. If we need help we will ask sir." Mike replied. "Ok then off you go. Keep me updated." the DCI told them and the two detectives immediately rushed out of the office.

"First things, first." Mike said. "We will call all of her friends and see if anyone knows anything. You take half of those numbers and I'll take the rest." "Ok here." replied George pulling a piece of paper from his notebook. You take those." Mike looked at the dozen or so names on the list. "You are kidding me. How many friends does she have?" he asked. "I have a longer list here. Don't worry it should be quick enough." George told him and immediately rushed into the room to use the telephone.

An hour later everyone bar one had been contacted and no-one had any idea of where she could be or what she may have got up to. No unknown characters hanging about the school and no mention of a boyfriend. "There is one friend a Marie McInally that can't be contacted. No-one at home so we will have to try again later." Mike told George just as PC King popped his head around the door.

"A Mrs McInally has just come into the station to report that her daughter Marie did not come home last night. I thought maybe it could be related to your case." PC King said. "Right thanks. Could you tell her that we will be down to speak to her?" George told the constable and he nodded before rushing back down the corridor. Mike turned to George. "This case of a missing teen may have nothing to do with our case but she was one of the teenagers that we wanted to speak to."

A few moments later the two detectives greeted Mrs McInally and led her into a side room. Mike indicated for her to have a seat. "I believe your daughter Marie did not come home last night. Is that right Mrs McInally?" Mike asked. "Yes. She was out and about with a friend but was to be home at 11pm. She isn't answering her mobile. I called the station late last night but they told me to wait to see if she came home. Well she hasn't and I'm worried. I'll tell you this, when her dad finds out she will be grounded until she is 18." she said with a tremble in her voice. "Her father doesn't know she is missing?" George asked surprised at this fact. "Not yet. He works away and will be back next week. I don't want to worry him you know how young teenage girls are. Running away, having adventures and such like. But I will tell you this, she is in for it when I get her home." she replied with more than a hint of anger now in her voice.

"Can you tell us who she was with?" Mike asked and when she replied Jennifer McKenzie a light bulb went off in his head. "How long has she been friends with Jennifer McKenzie?" he asked and she shook her head saying she wasn't that sure. "Do you know if they went about themselves or with other friends?" George asked wondering if a group of teenagers decided to run off together. Maybe it wasn't a kidnap at all but some type of teenage prank.

It had been done before when a teenager had fell out with his father and had staged a phony kidnapping to extort some money out of him. Mind you the teenager suffered when his father had discovered this plot and probably hadn't been let out of the house for years after. George found himself laughing to himself. He was a young constable at the time and was quite disappointed to find out that there were no kidnappers to arrest.

His thoughts were suddenly interrupted with the sound of a woman's cries. "I'm so worried. I'm going out of my mind with all these visions of what could have happened to her." Margaret McInally cried and George found himself gently patting her on her shoulder. "Try not to worry. We will do our very best to find her." he whispered sympathetically.

"Right let's start at the beginning. When did she leave your house?" Mike asked. Margaret sniffed and dabbed her eyes with her handkerchief. "She went out about 11am yesterday morning and was meeting Jennifer at George Square. She was supposed to be in at 11pm. I know that's late but she is a good responsible girl and she promised to would get a taxi home." she replied before bursting into tears again. "I don't know where this Jennifer lives. I should do but I don't. I am the worst mother in the whole world." she sobbed.

George sighed. It was really shocking that parents these days did not have a clue who their children were running around with. His own daughter, he swore to himself, would be kept under strict supervision until she was at least an adult.

"Well the thing is Jennifer McKenzie is missing also. Is it a coincidence? I think not. We will have to go on the premise that your daughter and Jennifer are together somewhere." Mike told her and she gasped. "What do you mean she is missing too?" she screamed. "What the hell is going on?"

Mike glanced over at George unsure of how much information to disclose. "Could they have run away together?" he asked and saw her shaking her head with confusion. "I don't know anything anymore. You think you know your own child and really you don't. Why would they run away?" she asked wondering if she ever really knew her daughter.

"Now, is someone going to tell me what the hell is going on?" she screamed as she looked from one detective to the other. "Well the thing is." Mike said, "Jennifer's grandfather, whom she lives with, noticed that she was not at home today and that her bed had not been slept in. He received a ransom note in his mail saying that his granddaughter had been kidnapped." Immediately her eyes widened and the loudest scream that he had ever heard came out of her mouth. The scream was like a tortured soul screaming from hell itself. "Oh my god." she eventually uttered after the scream had subsided into a low whimper. "Do you think they were both kidnapped then, as they were together and she didn't come home?" she asked with trepidation in her voice.

George answered her in a calm but concerned manner. "That is what we are trying to discover." he replied reaching out his hand towards her and touching her arm gently. "The ransom is regarding Jennifer not Marie." he told her. "So, is Marie with her or not?" she asked becoming more and more frustrated with the detectives who appear not to have a clue about anything.

"That is what we have to find out. Now an officer will take you home and if you could give us a photograph of Marie and a list of her friends we will look into her disappearance. We will find her I promise." Mike told her with an air of confidence in his voice that appeared to her to be untrue. "I need to tell her dad now. What the hell is he going to say?" she told them rising from her seat. "We will keep you informed." Mike told her, as he called on PC King to take her home.

"If you could take her home for us please, PC King. She will give you a photograph of her daughter and a list of friends that we can contact. Could you do that for me please?" George asked him. PC King raised his eyebrows before speaking. "Sure, but who is going to man the desk till I get back?" he asked. "Could you find someone to cover for you just for a little while?" Mike interjected and PC King nodded before replying. "I suppose I could."

With that they were gone and George turned to Mike. "This is getting stranger and stranger now two school girls are missing. What do you think?" Mike thought for a moment before replying. "If this is in fact a kidnapping then I think they wanted Jennifer but for some reason Marie was taken too." George nodded it seemed the logical explanation. "Anyway, I'm off to tell the DCI. Let me know when PC King returns." Mike told him. "Will do." George replied feeling himself becoming excited at the prospect of investigating a kidnapping. He had never been involved in a kidnapping before and although it was wrong, he felt himself becoming excited and thrilled by the case. A big gangster's granddaughter being kidnapped was not something that happened every day. Rab McKenzie was a force to be reckoned with and if he found the kidnapper before them, then George new death would follow.

# Chapter Five

The two men sat at a table, in the corner of the pub, sipping their beer with hardly a word to say to each other. The old man found the silence unbearable. "Have you come up with a plan yet?" he asked his grandson. "Yes. Drink up we're leaving." he suddenly replied. "What!" the old man exclaimed. "You heard me. Hurry up we have to do this tonight." The young man whispered before gulping down the last dregs of his beer. "Do what?" the old man asked with trepidation in his voice.

Joseph stood up and grabbed his jacket from behind his chair and glared at his grandfather. "I'll tell you outside. Now keep your voice down." he whispered. The old man left his half drunken beer behind and quickly followed his grandson out of the pub. He was scared so very scared. He knew that people were staring at them. Did they work for Big Rab.? He didn't recognize any of his men in the pub but then again, he didn't know everyone in the area.

Walking out of the Stag's Head, they had to push their way through a crowd of men standing outside the door smoking. The old man kept his head down and made a beeline for the car, which was parked along the street. Now sitting in the car, he felt himself shaking with nerves. This was a dangerous game they were playing. How it was all going to end was anyone's guess. Joseph looked at his grandfather. "What the hell is wrong with you?" he asked only for his grandfather to shake his head. "It's nothing. Just a bit of a cold." he replied faking a sneeze. "Right." said Joseph. "This is what we are going to do.........."

In an old run down and deserted farm outhouse, in the Ayrshire countryside, two young girls shivered in the cold and damp surroundings of their prison. They could each hear the other breathing but their eyes were covered and their mouths gagged. Their hands and feet were bound with rope and no matter how hard they tried to wriggle out they couldn't get free. Even though they were scared to death they both felt strangely comforted by the fact that they were together. Whatever was going on at least they would face it together. Jennifer could hear her friend Marie sobbing and tried to move closer to her but quickly realised that she was tied to something on the wall. She didn't know where she was or how long they had been there but shivering with the cold realised that it must be late in the evening. Her grandfather would know by now that she was missing so it was only a matter of time until he found her. In the meantime, she had to keep a level head and not do anything that might aggravate her kidnappers.

Jennifer wondered how she got herself into this mess and dragged her poor friend with her. They had only been friends for a few months and got on really well together. So well that she had arranged for her boyfriend, Joe to bring along a friend for Marie, so they could go out as a foursome.

Her great idea had suddenly soured when Joe had arrived to pick them up in an old black car with an old man sitting in the driving seat. Before she had time to ask what was going on the two men had bundled them into the back of the car and driven them to this place and imprisoned them.

She had tried to ask her boyfriend what was going on but received a slap across the face for her troubles. It was then that she knew that things were not right. Why was Joe acting this way? She had only known him for a few weeks but in that time he had been so charming and now looking at the anger in his face, she knew they were in trouble. Who was this Joe? Was everything he told her about himself lies? His name Joe Brown was that a lie? She suddenly feared that the men might be working for one of her grandfather's enemies. He had plenty of them. Realisation struck her when they were dragged out of the car one by one and gagged, blindfolded and tied. They were being kidnapped.

All of sudden they both heard footsteps outside the door and listening carefully could hear something being dragged away from the door before it was swung open. Marie muffled a tormented scream and actually wet herself with nerves. She was sure that she was about to die.

Jennifer was made of sterner stuff and knew that her grandfather would get her out safe. Joe was a dead man walking and as soon as her grandfather finds her he will get his just desserts. She was angry at herself for being taken in by the devious swine who always proclaimed his love for her. How could she have been so stupid to allow herself to be drawn to such a despicable person? She could feel her whole body tense with anger but on hearing the muffled noise from Marie knew that they were both in danger. Where was her grandfather? Surely, he would know that she was missing by now. His men, she was sure, would be scouring the streets looking for her and that it would only be a matter of time before she was found. She knew she had to cling onto that hope as it was the only hope she had.

Joseph untied Marie from the wall and pulled her up by the scruff of her neck and dragged her towards the shed door. Without a word, he put her over his shoulders and walked outside, before slamming the door shut behind him.

Jennifer guessed that he had taken her friend and found herself terrified of being alone. She silently prayed that her grandfather would hurry and find her before the stranger came back for her.

Outside the door Joseph unceremoniously dropped Marie to the ground and pushed the old oil drum up against the door again. As she whimpered he pulled her up and draped her over his shoulders again. She immediately began to squirm and he dropped her once again onto the ground. She began to groan with the pain of hitting the small stones that were now embedded in her flesh. He pulled her by her hair and whispered into her ear. "Stop it. Keep still and you won't be hurt. Every time you move I will drop you. Now nod your head and agree to keep still." He waited for the nod of her head and when it was not forthcoming tugged at her hair again. She moaned before eventually nodding her head. "Good girl. Now you're going over my shoulder again and this time you are going to stay very still." Marie began to sob but did as she was told.

The old man sat in the car keeping watch. This was a dangerous game and hoped that his grandson knew exactly what he was doing. If not, they were both dead men. Why did he become involved in this dangerous scheme? His thoughts were interrupted by the arrival of his grandson. Outside the car Joseph dropped Marie to the ground before opening the car boot and bundling her inside. Slamming the boot shut he told his grandfather to drive and they were soon travelling down the dark country lanes again. The old man knew exactly where they were going and what would happen once they got there.

Forty minutes later their car pulled into a layby and the two men stared at each other in silence for a few moments. "Do you know what you're doing Joseph?" his grandfather asked. Joseph tutted and opened the car door and stepped outside. His grandfather was beginning to get on his nerves and he could actually see him falling to bits in front of his eyes. He could understand his grandfather being stressed he was too. This whole thing was new to them both but it was the one and only job that they would do together. This was payback for his father.

"You drive down the road about a mile. I'll catch up with you soon." he told his grandfather. "Why can't I stay here? You're only tying her to that tree over there?" he asked confused by the sudden change in the plans. "Don't fucking argue! Just do as I say!" Joseph practically screamed at him. "Ok." he replied shaking his head.

He didn't like this change of plan and wondered what his grandson was up to. He didn't like being left out of the loop and found himself feeling so angry at the way his grandson had spoken to him. He was changing right in front of his eyes and he didn't like it one bit. The angry look on his grandson's face reminded him of someone else. In that angry moment Joseph looked the spitting image of his father. That fact sent a shiver down the old man's spine.

As soon as Joseph had dragged Marie from the car boot and slammed it shut again, his grandfather drove off down the road to the next layby to wait for his grandson. Joseph dragged the young girl towards a nearby oak tree.

He had noticed that she had wet herself and for a second felt some compassion towards her. But this wasn't about her; this was about revenge for the murder of his father. He tied her to the tree and began to walk along the road towards his grandfather's car in the distance. But he suddenly stopped. This idea wasn't any good. She would be found in the morning and maybe just maybe she could lead the police to the farmhouse. Worse still she could identify them both. He couldn't have that. So he turned on his heels and made his way back towards the tree. He pulled out a pair of black leather gloves from his jacket pocket and pulled them on.

When he was finished he ran along the road towards his grandfather. His hands were shaking and his breathing labored. When he saw the car in front of him, he slowed down and breathed deeply in an effort to compose himself. He pulled off his gloves and stuffed them into his jacket pocket. "Right let's go." he told his grandfather after jumping into the car. "You were a long time. Did everything go as planned?" his grandfather asked and Joseph nodded. "Let's get back to Glasgow and find the nearest pub. I need a bloody drink." he said and the old man nodded. He needed more than one drink to calm his nerves and looking at the expression on his grandson's face knew that he felt the same.

An hour later they were in the Stag's Head drinking beers and whisky chasers. "It's cold outside she might die of hyperthermia. And what if she leads the police back to us? Have you thought of that?" his grandfather asked. Joseph glared at his grandfather before replying. "It's all taken care of don't worry about it." His grandfather nodded and seemed more relaxed. Joseph gulped down the whisky and hoped that his grandfather would never find out what he had done.

# Chapter Six

When Joseph and his grandfather arrived home night they found Annie waiting up for them. "It's late and I was worried." she told them in a weak and feeble voice. His grandfather took his grandmother in his arms and kissed her gently on her forehead. "Now you don't have to worry about us Annie." he whispered into her ear. "Do you both want tea?" she asked making her way into the kitchen to switch on the kettle. "No thanks grandma. I'm tired and going to bed." Joseph said kissing her cheek. She could smell the whisky from his breath but decided to ignore it. It was too late at night to have a heart to heart with her grandson about the dangers of drink. She would bring up the subject in the morning when the alcohol was out of his system. She turned to her husband. "What about you?" she asked. "Sure, that would be nice darling." he replied knowing for a fact that he had no choice. Whenever she asked if you would like tea, what she really meant was that you are getting tea whether you want it or not.

Lying in bed, Joseph found himself thinking about his father and how the kidnap of Jennifer McKenzie would fulfill his deep desire for revenge on the monster of a man, who was responsible for his father's death.

He met Jennifer just over a month ago at the ice rink in George's Square. That night the air was filled with the aroma of so many different and exotic foodstuffs in the stalls that surrounded the rink. It was just after Christmas and George Square was still decked out in decorations and the atmosphere was both fun and comforting. Especially just after Christmas when a lot of people, including himself, became a little depressed. That night was the night he met his enemy's granddaughter, Jennifer McKenzie.

He had notice a group of teenage girls laughing and screaming on the ice rink and when one girl screamed. "Jennifer! Jennifer McKenzie get on this ice rink right now! You don't know what you're missing." He suddenly knew that the young dark-haired girl standing at the side of the ice rink was Jennifer McKenzie, the granddaughter of Rab McKenzie. He noticed a couple of heavies watching over her and for some reason wanted to approach her. The only problem was he needed to bide his time and wait for the right moment.

After some time spent with eye contact he moved in to speak to her. She smiled at him sweetly having notice that he had been staring at her for over half an hour. "Hi I'm Joe, nice to meet you." he said shaking her hand. The two heavies that had been on guard moved in to protect her but she waved them off and they immediately stepped back but still kept watch.

They spent the next hour getting to know each other. The talked and laughed as if they were old friends and when it was time to go arranged to meet the following night at the same place. She whispered that she would get rid of her grandfather's bodyguards as she instinctively knew that he was wary of them.

This arrangement carried on for several weeks. She skipped out at night to meet him and he knew that she had fallen in love with him. He laughed at that thought. The stupid little girl really thought that they were a couple of lovebirds. Little did she know at the end of the night when he kissed her he could feel the bile rising in his stomach. But he had a plan a plan and for that plan to work he had to keep her sweet.

He tossed and turned all night unable to get to sleep. His thoughts turned to his father, who by all accounts was no angel. He knew that he was one of Rab McKenzie's men and had been working for him for several years. What he did was a mystery to him but he had a feeling that his grandfather knew more than he was letting on. Whenever he asked about his father or his mother, who died from a drug overdose when he was a toddler, his grandfather would suddenly change the subject.

One night at the Stag's Head just after his father's funeral, when he was worse the wear with alcohol, he had approached a group of men standing at the door and asked if they worked for Big Rab. The men had looked at each other and had pushed him to the ground. He asked them if he knew his father Andy and the men had suddenly walked away. He had screamed after them calling them murdering scum but they ignored him and carried on walking.

Walking along the street that night he was grabbed into a dark alley and pushed up against the wall. The assailant gripped him by the throat and warned him to stop creating trouble and messing with people he should respect. As he gasped for air he saw the glistening of the knife in front of his face and thought he was a dead man. Without uttering another word his assailant punched him hard in the stomach and walked away. He fell to the ground, winded by the punch and when he eventually got his breath back, he vomited all over himself.

As the old man sat on the sofa, beside his ailing wife, he felt so afraid. Afraid for himself, his grandson but especially his wife. What did the future hold for her or in fact for any of them?

When their son Andrew had died over a year ago, his wife had taken his death very badly. She suddenly became a different person. The life in her eyes had died and her mind was not what it used to be. Taking a sip of tea, he realised that she had once again put salt in the tea instead of sugar. Placing his cup on the table beside the sofa he cradled his wife in his arms. Her sadness had never lifted and the worry he felt for her was now transferred to his grandson. His son had worked for Big Rab for years and had become involved with Mary, a prostitute whom he married after she became pregnant. Unknown to him his new daughter-in-law was also a drug addict and would disappear for months at a time. When Joseph was born she had actually disappeared from the hospital and her husband had to drag her back from some drug den that she had been hiding in.

Before long he and his wife had to look after their grandchild as both of his parents were more interested in drugs than bringing up their child. Big Rab was not too happy about Andrew and Mary using the drugs themselves rather than selling them. They owed Big Rab thousands of pounds, with no way of paying him back.

Andrew had begged him for help and somehow, he had managed to get the money to pay back Big Rab. A few days later Mary had overdosed and died in one of the massage parlours in the city. Andrew fell to pieces because he didn't know that she was still on the game.

One morning his mother had found that he had gone without saying a word. They continued to look after Joseph and every now and again he would call them to let them know that he was fine. Never once did he ask about his son. And he never ever told them where he was or what he was up to. For years they worried about him and didn't know if he was alive or dead, between the telephone calls.

The old man looked at his wife and smiled. She was a good wife and mother and didn't deserve all of the heartbreak that she had to endure. Andrew had broken his parent's hearts on more than one occasion and the amount of times they had to collect him from jail was too many to count. Nevertheless, he was his son and for his life to be taken away so soon was more than he could bear.

He thought of his grandson. Against all odds he had grown up to be a great lad. Now at University he was studying civil engineering and had to the whole world at his feet. Now he could end up in prison or worst-case scenario dead like his father. What possessed him to do such a stupid thing was beyond his understanding. He had man handled the girls so roughly and ignored their cries of pain. For some reason, he had a cruel side to him perhaps after all he was his father's son. What did that say about him and his wife who had reared him from a toddler? He bowed his head and fought hard to stop the tears. He blamed himself. He was no angel and the fact that he didn't spend time in prison, did not mean that he didn't commit crimes. He was lucky he wasn't caught. More crimes than he could remember. Maybe all the bad genes handed down through the generations came from his own father, who by all accounts was a nasty piece of work. Stories of his father surfaced soon after his mother passed. How he had deserted his mother when she was pregnant with him and how he was in and out of jail for most of his life. He even died in jail after being sentenced to life for murder.

He never knew his father and after hearing what he was like was glad of that. He wondered if all this criminality was related to his genes somehow and could he really be responsible for how his own son had turned out. He shook his head. No that was nonsense; everyone has a choice on how to lead their lives or do they?

Gently lifting his sleepy wife from the sofa, he took her to bed. They were both in their twilight years now and by his calculations did not have many years left on this earth. He could see his wife deteriorating right before his eyes and his doctor had told him, not so long ago, that his own heart was failing. Maybe that was why he had agreed to help his grandson but he knew that wasn't exactly true. He had agreed to help him to keep an eye on him and ensure that he didn't get out of control. For some reason, he had his father's temper and although a good boy, he was prone to fits of rage.

As he lay in bed that night he cried. All of his pent-up emotions came flooding out. For some reason, this was happening more and more often and he knew he was crying for his grandson. No amount of persuasion from him would change the young man's mind about his plan for revenge. Why he was that bothered about his father's death was a mystery as he didn't exactly know him very well. Perhaps he was jealous of Big Rab and all the money he flashed about or perhaps he had an evil streak just like his father. His grandson had mentioned family honour and he had laughed at the absurdity of it all.

As he turned in bed he gently put an arm around his sleeping wife and hoped that both of them would be spared from the consequences of this dangerous plan going wrong. He found himself praying which was something that he hadn't done for years. He prayed for his grandson but also prayed that the dark secret he had carried with him all these years, would never be discovered.

# Chapter Seven

"Hey Mike." George shouted. "This report has just come in." He handed the sheet of paper to Mike and sat down on the seat beside him. "A body, George. Not identified yet. Right let's get down there." Mike told him and with that the two detectives rushed out of the station.

Driving towards Ayr Mike pondered on whether or not the body of a young girl could be one of their missing teenagers. "It seems that her body has been taken to the mortuary at Ayr Hospital." George said after speaking to the detectives in Ayr. "What did they say? Any more information?" Mike asked looking over at his colleague. "Keep your eyes on the road Mike. Do you know how many accidents happen on this stretch of road?" George chastised him. Mike tutted. "It's not looking good. She seems to match the description of both of our girls. And preliminary reports suggest that she was strangled." George told him taking a deep sigh in the process. "Well let's not jump to conclusions." Mike replied.

Within an hour they had arrived at Ayr Hospital. Parking the car, they headed for the hospital entrance and were immediately confronted by a barge of photographers. "What the hell is this all about?" Mike asked, flashing his identity card to the policeman standing just outside the entrance. "Some celebrity broke his ankle this morning and now the paparazzi are here waiting to snap him as he leaves." the officer replied shaking his head. "Who?" George asked. The police officer shook his head. "Some teenage band member. Don't know really and don't care. I'm bloody frozen standing out here, so I wish he would bloody well hurry up and leave." he replied rubbing his hands and stamping his feet to try to keep warm.

"Straight ahead and to the left; straight through those swing doors." George said pointing to the sign on the wall showing the way to the mortuary. "They know we are coming, don't they?" Mike asked and George nodded. Mike laughed to himself. George was so organized and always had been. Becoming a father didn't seem to change him or affect his work in any way. Mike had changed however and had become more absent minded and with the lack of sleep often fell asleep at his desk. His son Aaron seemed to have tantrums every day and night. The terrible two's his wife, Susan, had told him but his other two sons, Daniel who was 11 years and David who was 8 years old, never had a tantrum in their life. Mike had even suggested taking Aaron to hospital to have him checked out but his wife had assured him that everything was fine. Some toddlers were just a bit grumpier than others she had insisted but he still wasn't convinced.

"George, can I ask you a somewhat personal question?" Mike asked as they walked through the swing doors and down the stairs towards the mortuary. "Sure." George replied turning to him and stopping on the stairway. "Your baby Lisa she's around 2 years old, isn't she?" Mike asked and George nodded. "Does she ever have tantrums?" George raised his eyebrows before throwing his head back and laughing. "What kind of question is that? Of course, she has tantrums." he replied scrunching up his nose and making a whimsical face. "Why do you ask?" he asked Mike. "It's just that Aaron has screamed blue murder every day and night since he was born. My other boys were calm little angles compared to him. I can't get a decent night's sleep and every nerve in my body is frayed. "Mike replied feeling sorry for himself.

"What does Susan say about it?" George asked. "She always makes excuse. First he had colic then he was teething and now she says it's the terrible two's." Mike replied trying to stifle a yawn. "Well I have noticed you seem to drop off for a nap at work every now and then." George told him. Mike was horrified. "Oh my God. Anyone else see me?" George patted him on his back. "Don't worry, only me." he replied. "This lack of sleep is getting chronic and I don't know what to do about it." Mike confessed. "I don't want to lose my bleeding job. I want to be alert and focused on my work but honestly George it's getting harder and harder."

The two detectives began walking downstairs again and at the bottom George turned to Mike. "Look if you think Aaron needs a check- up at the doctor's then take him. With or without Susan, at least your mind will be at peace and as far as your tiredness goes take a holiday. We all need a holiday to recharge our batteries now and again." Mike nodded. "Lisa just has tantrums when she doesn't get her own way. You know how woman are like, well little baby girls are just the same." George said jokingly.

On discovering that George did not suffer from the same screaming toddler syndrome, Mike decided to change the subject. "Who are we meeting here?" Mike asked standing outside the mortuary door. "A Detective Sergeant but I wasn't given a name." George replied just as the door swung open and an old familiar face beckoned on them to enter. "DC Peterson." Mike said in surprise, only for the man to shake his head. "Detective Sargent Peterson if you don't mind. "The young detective replied. "Good to see you. So you got your promotion then." Mike said shaking the young detective's hand. DC Peterson looked over at George and the two acknowledged each other with a nod of the head.

As they followed DS Peterson inside the room George whispered to Mike. "He may be two years old but he's still a little shit." Mike burst out laughing and gulped as DS Peterson turned and glared at him. "What's so funny?" the young detective sergeant asked. "Well if you must know I just told Mike here that you haven't changed much in two years." George replied and the other detective gave him a quizzical look, while Mike sniggered. "Well you haven't changed either. You were a bastard then and a bastard now." he said, quickening his step to meet up with his superior. George gasped at the cheek of the young detective and Mike laughed his head off. "You too never got on did you. Some things never change." he told him, who by this time was standing with his mouth hanging open.

As they approached the other detectives, three in total, Mike introduced himself. "And this is my colleague DS Wilson." he told them as George caught up with him. The other two detectives nodded and DS Peterson stared at them with a scowl on his face. Along with DS Peterson were DI Higgins and DI Laughton. All three detectives were based at Ayr and by the look on their faces didn't appreciate Glasgow detectives trying to muscle in on their case.

The pathologist approached the detectives and nodded before leading them over to the body, which was now lying covered on the slab. He pulled the cover from her face and Mike gasped. This was indeed the body of one of his kidnapped teenagers. It was the body of Marie McInally. He glanced at George who was staring intensely at the dead girl's face as if trying to keep her face engraved in his memory.

"We will begin the post mortem tomorrow afternoon. Sorry it can't be any sooner but we are backed up here. And yes I know murders take priority but we have three others lying there in the coolers." the pathologist said pointing towards a large grey aluminum wall in the corner that looked like some sort of horrific filing system for the dead. "Any preliminary findings doctor?" Mike asked. "Well I can tell you she is dead." he said sniggering at his own joke. "A little inappropriate don't you think doctor." DI Higgins said, with a look of disgust on his face. "Now come on, when you are surrounded by death every minute of your working day, you have to find some humour or you would be as dead as these corpses." The pathologist replied pulling the blue cotton cover back from the young girl's face.

"It seems that she was strangled." the pathologist told them. "Manual strangulation, by gloved hands. She was tied to a tree, gagged and bound by her ankles. At the moment detectives that is all I have. A more detailed report will be forthcoming once the post mortem has been completed. So, if you don't mind I have to get back to work. You can find your own way out I presume." With that he turned on his heels and shouted on his assistant to return the girl's body and bring out the next body that was on the list for post mortem.

Mike asked the detectives to make sure they are informed as the murdered girl had come from Glasgow and was part of an ongoing investigation. "Well." DS Peterson said. "You have to go through the proper channels. Get your DCI to call our DCI and we will see what can be done." Mike glanced at George and could see the anger in his eyes. "Right let's go DS Wilson." Mike said guiding his colleague towards the door by the arm. "Goodbye detectives and thanks for your help." Mike shouted just as George pushed open the door and cursed as he had never cursed before.

On the return journey to the station, silence engulfed the two detectives. For nearly an hour Mike drove the car and George stared out of the window. Not being able to stand the silence for any longer Mike asked him how he was feeling. "How am I feeling? How do you think? That poor young girl was murdered. Did you see her face? That sight is going to haunt me." George replied with a lump in his throat. "I'm a father of a daughter now Mike and this stuff is really getting to me. Is anyone safe in this world? I mean, really safe. Is my daughter safe? When she is a teenager out and about in the big wide world would she be safe? We see lots of shit in our job but that poor girl strangled like that is just bloody awful. I tell you this Mike I won't bloody sleep a wink tonight." Mike nodded sympathetically. "I know what you mean George but we have still one damn awful job to do." he told him. "What could be more awful than that?" he asked rather confused. "We have to tell her mother and have her identify her dead daughter. But first we have to speak to the DCI." Mike replied. "Damn it all Mike. I don't know if I can do this job anymore. Did you know I was an engineer before I joined the police force?" Mike shook his head. "Well I was and a damn good one too." George told him and there was a few seconds silence before he continued. "You know even before this case, just after I was attacked a couple of years ago, by that nutter who broke into my house and attacked Melissa, I was thinking of leaving the police force. Yes ,my nerves are shot to bits. I could have died, Melissa could have died and our baby girl could have been left an orphan."

Mike pulled into the side of the road and switching off the ignition turned to face his colleague and friend. "Did you go for that counseling that you were asked to do?" Mike asked. "Of course, I bloody did. The DCI wouldn't have me back until I had completed the whole six weeks." he replied. "No, I have been thinking about it a lot lately and you know what Mike, I'm going to discuss this with Melissa tonight."

"Well promise me you won't do anything rash." Mike said and George nodded. "I mean it George I want you to think about this very carefully. You will soon make Detective Inspector and there will be a huge pay rise in it for you."

George let out a huge groan. "You have been saying that I will get promotion for years now and at one time it was important to me. Not now Mike. Now I just want to have a contented happy life. But I promise I won't do anything rash and I will keep you in the loop." Mike patted him on the shoulder and gave him a huge smile. "Things will be ok George."

Moments later they were pulling into the station car park. "Right you stay in the car George. I'll talk to the DCI and then we can go and see that poor girl's mother." George gave him a nod. Truth be told he was in no mood to be discussing anything that had gone on in the mortuary with anyone never mind the DCI.

Mike returned a short time later and explained to George that after speaking to the DCI, he requested some more detectives to help him with the case. One of the kidnapped victims was dead but there was another teenage girl out there scared out of her wits and in extreme danger.

"Who are we getting?" George asked. "I don't know yet. We will find out when we get back. The DCI wants us both in his office when we return. Seemingly the reporters at the hospital reported on more than that injured singer. Somehow, they got wind of our case and are saying they want to publish. The DCI is in discussions with the newspaper editors right now, trying to get them to delay publication. "George sighed. "They will delay publication I'm sure. In a murder investigation, they usually co-operate with the police." George said and Mike shrugged his shoulders.

Mike and Gorge arrived at Mrs McInally's door and both took a deep sigh before knocking. She lived in a semi-detached house, in a small cul-de-sac in Milngavie. Not far from where Rab McKenzie lived but Mike thought, it was far away from the lavish lifestyle that he enjoyed. Margaret McInally opened the front door in her nightdress and dressing gown. It was well into the afternoon but the detectives knew that she wouldn't have had any sleep since her daughter had gone missing. "Mrs McInally. DI Watson and DS Wilson, can we come in." Mike asked. "Sure. Have you any news about my Marie. Have you found her yet?" she asked as she stepped aside to let the detectives walk into the hall.

The detectives didn't say a word until they were both standing in the living room. "Mrs McInally can you take a seat please. Is there anyone else in the house with you at the moment?" George asked. "No just me. My husband will be home later this evening. What is it? Have you got news?" she asked wringing her hands. Her long dark hair was pulled tightly back into a ponytail and her eyes had dark rings around them. Both detectives felt very uncomfortable about breaking such news to her while she was on her own. "Is there anyone you can call to come over?" Mike asked. "Why?" she replied. "Is there?" George asked again. "Well my next door neigbour Betty is at home. I can hear her walking around. But why would you want her to be here. I don't understand." she said suddenly becoming worried. Mike nodded for George to go next door and see if he could bring Betty in to sit with her before they started discussing the new development.

Moments later Betty arrived and immediately sat down beside Margaret and put her arm her shoulder. Mike and George sat down on the beige sofa and Margaret suddenly began to weep.

"It's bad news I know it. Is she hurt? Is she in hospital? Please tell me." she cried and George looked over at Mike indicating that Mike should be the one to break the news. There was an awkward silence while Margaret wiped the tears from her face and stared past the detectives to the wall at the other side of the room.

"I am sorry to tell you that a body has been found and we think it is Marie." Mike told her suddenly feeling a lump beginning to form in his throat. George stared at the floor. Betty, the neighbor, gasped with shock and Margaret continued staring at the wall as if she didn't hear him. Mike put his hand on her hand and patted it gently. "Do you understand what I have just told you? We think Marie has been murdered." Still Margaret McInally stared into space as if her brain had suddenly frozen. "Margaret honey. I'm so so sorry." Betty said pulling her towards her, hugging and rocking her gently.

The sudden movement seemed to unfreeze her brain and she stared at Mike with bewilderment in her eyes. "How do you know it's her? How do you know it's my Marie?" she asked. "We saw her a few hours ago. We think it is her but obviously we need a formal identification." Mike told her and at that moment she fell from the sofa to the ground on her knees and let out such a heartfelt scream, that Mike had to cover his ears. "No! No! No! It's not her. It's not her I tell you." Betty fell to her knees beside the grieving mother and cradled her in her arms. "Shhhhhh honey. Jim will soon be home. Come I'll take you to bed. It's the best place for you to be. I will stay with you until Jim gets home." Betty whispered to her. She pulled Margaret to her feet and Mike put out his arm to help her. Margaret pushed it away with anger now in her eyes. She hated this man who came to her house and told her that her baby was dead. Her baby was murdered.

Betty walked her to the door but she suddenly turned to the detectives. "How was she killed?" she asked. "How was my baby killed?" George stood up and looked out of the living room window; he just couldn't take this anymore. Mike jumped up and moved towards her. He took her hand in his and this time she let him touch her. She was now numb and dead inside and nothing mattered to her anymore. Her baby was dead. Her life was over. "We are waiting to find out. The post mortem will be carried out tomorrow afternoon. As soon as we have any news we will let you know." he told her. "But there is the matter of identification. We can't carry on with our investigations until Marie has been formally identified. A police woman will be around tomorrow morning and talk you through what happens next." Margaret McInally nodded to indicate she understood but the truth was she barely made out what he was saying. Her brain was numb and now her body was also numb. "Please take care of her. If you need us call Pitt Street." Mike told Betty who simply nodded. Mike and George let themselves out of the house and pulled the front door closed behind them.

Now sitting in the car they both felt really depressed. A young girl's life had been taken and they didn't have any leads to go on. "Do you think the other girl Jennifer is dead too?" George asked Mike. "No George. Jennifer was the real target for the kidnapping poor Marie was just an extra complication. But the whole thing will put the wind up Rab McKenzie when he gets hear about this. "Maybe that is why she was murdered. To scare Rab McKenzie into paying the ransom." George said and Mike had to agree. Whoever this was had been very clever, if that was the word for it. The murder was to get rid of the complication and the result would be to frighten Rab McKenzie into paying the money. Whoever was behind this was an evil son of a bitch.

The rest of the day was spent with the DCI discussing the case and what should happen next. It was decided that DS Rachel Roberts, DS Peter Grant and DC Ewan McDonald would help on the case. DS Roberts was given the job as family liaison officer and would accompany Mr and Mrs McInally to the mortuary to formally identify their daughter's body. She would also visit the family daily to keep them updated with the ongoing investigation. DC McDonald and DS Grant were to spend their evenings visiting all the local pubs around Milgavie incognita and see if they could pick up any information from the locals. Mike warned them to be careful, especially in the Stag's Head as Big Rab McKenzie's men were frequent visitors. When asked how he knew this Mike touched his finger to his nose indicating that they were too nosey. He had his sources was all that he told them. With the discussion done the detectives went home to distress and get ready for another hard day in the morning.

On the way out of the station door, DS Grant approached Mike and asked him if he had heard all the rumours. "What rumours?" Mike asked. "That the force is going to be merged and become one giant police force. That at least six police stations are set to be closed." he told him delighted that he seemed to be the only one at the station to have heard all about this. "Who told you this?" Mike asked. DS Grant touched his finger to his nose before answering. "I have my sources DI Watson." Mike laughed. "Well your sources may be pulling your leg. Have you thought of that?" DS Grant laughed. "Not this source. I can assure you of that." he replied before disappearing out of the door. "Do you think any of that is true Mike?" George asked. "Who knows? The DCI has had a hell of a lot of meetings with the top brass over the last few weeks. We will find out soon enough. Now let's get home." he replied.

# Chapter Eight

He waited in the shadows and found himself jumping at every little sound. If he was found out he would be a dead man. Big Rab never took kindly to snitches so why did he find himself in this position? He knew why. DI Watson had offered him a deal either spy on Big Rab for him or face up to six year's imprisonment for dealing drugs. He had a young family to support and found himself having no choice in the matter. His drug dealing had gone unnoticed by Big Rab but it was only a matter of time before he would be pulled up by the big man and dealt with severely. Big Rab hated his men going behind his back.

He had set him up as a Bar Manager so that he would keep his ear to the ground. It was a good job but truth be known it didn't pay enough money for his liking. So, a little bit of dealing here and there gave him some extra money. But he knew it was dangerous and now he was a snitch for the pigs.

DI Watson turned a blind eye to his activities in exchange for information. But he was warned that if arrested again he would go down for many, many years. So nowadays he only sold to the regular clients and never more than twice a week. He should have stopped long ago but the extra money paid his mortgage and now he found he couldn't do without it.

So here he was, skulking in a dark alleyway waiting to give information to the pigs. He heard a car coming up the alleyway and instinctively cowered down behind the bins.

The car stopped and the headlights were turned off. But still he cowered in the shadows. He would not come out until he knew that he was meeting the right man.

DI Watson closed the car door behind him and stood in the dark alleyway trying to adjust his eyes in the darkness. "We meet again Alfie." he said, making his way over to the pathetic man cowering beside the bins. "I got your message. I take it you have news for me." he whispered. Alfie walked out of the shadows to meet him. "Y.....yeh." he stuttered frantically looking from side to side to make sure no-one was watching him. "Well spit it out man. It's late and I should be tucked up in bed." Mike told him. "I know where the girl is." Alfie said suddenly realizing that his stuttering had stopped. "What girl is this Alfie?" Mike asked not trusting a word that came out of the low life's mouth.

"Jenny McKenzie" Mike raised his eyebrows. "And how do you know about Jennie Alfie?" he asked with a disdainful look on his face. For some reason, he never liked this man who was now standing in front of him with information that could be very valuable. "I got one of my men to follow a couple of very suspicious and shifty looking characters. They followed them to and old farmhouse, just off Ayr road not far from where that poor girl was found tied to a tree." Mike was astounded by this. "How the hell do you know about the girl at Ayr?" he asked knowing fine well that it had not been reported in the press yet. "I have my sources. Anyway, I think the old farm is where they are keeping Jennifer McKenzie." Alfie told him. "I don't understand the how or why this information has come your way but we will look into it." Mike told him before making his way back to the car. He turned to face Alfie as he opened his car door. "You haven't told anyone else about this, have you?" he asked noticing that Alfie was becoming a little agitated. "Right. Spill you guts. Who else have you told?" Mike asked walking back towards him. Alfie didn't answer but shifted from one foot to the other. Mike prodded him in the chest with his finger. "Tell me now." he demanded. "B B.. B.. Big Rab." Alfie stuttered. "What!" Mike exclaimed. "Why the hell would you do that?"

"I had to. If he found out that I knew something and didn't tell him he would kill me." Alfie said suddenly finding himself beginning to shiver with the thought of being on the wrong side of Big Rab. "For God's sake, Alfie." Mike exclaimed. "You should have told me first. Right when did you tell him?" Alfie shifted from foot to foot with his whole body shaking before he answered. "A. a. about an hour ago." Mike put his hand on his head and paced up and down with sheer despondency. "Right you had better go. I've got to call this in." Mike told him. "We still have a deal then?" he asked nervously. "Yes Alfie, we still have a deal."

Mike jumped into his car to make his way back to the station. All of this had to be discussed with the DCI but before that he had to get DS Wilson back into the station. Picking up his mobile he called George who was more than a little annoyed at being called back out. He was shattered by everything that happened and was ready for bed. He and Melissa had a discussion about him leaving the police and becoming and engineer again. They had even discussed emigrating to Australia which was something that Melissa had always dreamed of doing. Now he was being called back out to the station. "It better be important." he said through gritted teeth and Mike assured him that it was.

# Chapter Nine

"Well this is it. Tonight, we will get the money." Joseph gleefully told his grandfather who by the look on his face was less than impressed about the whole situation. Annie had gone to bed so the men were able to talk freely. "This is a dangerous game you're playing Joseph. How do you know it will work? He could lay a trap for us." his grandfather told him with more than a little hint of anguish in his voice. Joseph glared at his grandfather. "This is no game and I'm not bloody stupid. Of course, he will lay a trap for us. That is why we will go to the park early and have a look around." he replied. "Don't worry I have a plan."

His grandfather shook his head. "Oh God, not another one. How the hell are you coming up with these plans Joseph? What kind of mind do you have to think of these sorts of things?" his grandfather asked tormented by the cavalier and reckless attitude of his grandson. "I'll tell you what kind of mind I have. I have my father's mind. Its genetic." he replied throwing his head back and laughing.

"I think it's time we had a serious talk Joseph." his grandfather told him. "I don't want to talk for God's sake. We have a lot of planning to do to make sure that everything runs smoothly tonight. You do remember what's happening tonight" he replied rising from the sofa. His grandfather grabbed his arm. "Sit down this minute." he demanded sternly. "OK pops. If you want to talk let's get it over with." Joseph replied sitting back down on the sofa beside his grandfather and letting out a huge sigh. This was all that he needed. He had things to do; plans to go over. He didn't need to waste time sitting chatting to his grandfather who was now beginning to get on his nerves more and more these days.

"What the hell has happened to you Joseph?" his grandfather asked. Joseph shrugged his shoulders. "I don't know what you're talking about." her replied shaking his head. "You don't. We'll let me tell you, this is not good enough. Me and your gran brought you up proper. What happened to your university course? Don't telling me your going, cause I know damn well you packed it in when your father died." he said and Joseph was surprised by this revelation. "Who the hell told you?" he asked and his grandfather shrugged his shoulders. "No-one needed to tell me. I know because I know you. I know your father's death hit you bad but for God's sake boy you never really knew him. He was never about. Yeh sure you might have got a present sent to you now and again but that didn't make him a father. He was a bad yin and so was your mother for that matter. And there is no use shaking your damn head. I'm telling you the truth." Joseph snarled at his grandfather like a wounded animal. "What the fuck are you talking about? I don't want to hear another word from you." he replied jumping to his feet. But his grandfather wasn't finished. "This vendetta you have against Big Rab is ludicrous. Your father was killed somewhere down in England. I'm sure it had nothing to do with Big Rab." he told him. "Look, you stupid old man. Big Rab killed my father, your son for God's sake. You know it and I know it. So, stop talking complete rubbish. If you don't want to help me, I will deal with this myself. Do you want out is that it?" Joseph screamed at his grandfather. "Keep your bloody voice down. I don't want you waking your grandmother you know she is an ill woman. "he said standing up and facing his grandson face to face. "Now sit down until we are finished talking." he said. "Well I'm finished right now." Joseph declared as his grandfather grabbed him by the arm. "Well I'm not." he told him.

Joseph tried the soft approach with his grandfather, who by this time was sitting on the sofa with his hands on his head feeling dejected. "Look pops I know you're worried but don't be. In a few hours, we will have the money and everything can go back to normal." he said sitting down beside him on the sofa again. "Joseph what am I going to do with you. I love you so much but somehow you have lost your way." he said with tears in his eyes. "Look I just want to frighten Big Rab and make him suffer for a while. That's all. Once this is over with maybe I will go away somewhere and get my life back to normal. I know my father and mother were useless drug addicts that couldn't look after themselves never mind a baby and I am so grateful for gran and you for bringing me up and giving me the love that my parents should have given me. Once this is over everything will be fine, I promise. Dad was useless but did he really deserve to die like that. It kills me to think that he had been tortured. It kills me to think that he had been left hanging and rotting for weeks in an old barn before he was found. It kills me that someone like Rab McKenzie can get away with this and enjoy his life of luxury while we have had our lives torn apart." Joseph said patting his grandfather on the shoulder. "Look Joseph Big Rab doesn't operate like that. He could have been murdered by any of the drug barons in London. Who the hell can say that it was Big Rab? You just want revenge for your father's death but Joseph you can't just pin his murder on just anyone." he replied confused by his grandson's determination to blame Robert McKenzie for his father's death. "Look let's agree to disagree. I will do this alone if I need to." he declared standing to his feet and making his way to the living room door. "No Joseph. I will always support you. Let me get my jacket and I'll meet you outside in the car." His grandfather replied throwing the car keys to his grandson who caught them mid- air.

As Joseph left the house, his grandfather was at a loss on how to proceed. He suddenly thought of telling the police but knew that they would both end up being arrested and Big Rab would want revenge and could easily get to them in prison. He shook his head. He wasn't a grass and anyway the girl they left behind at the tree would have been found by now. So hopefully she would have led the police to the farmhouse outbuilding and Big Rab's granddaughter would already be at home enjoying all the attention. If not, then he and Joseph would collect the money and free the girl.

He resigned himself to going along with his grandsons plan no matter what. They would face the consequences together. Hopefully everything would go as planned and then the whole sorry episode could be laid to rest. He knew this was just wishful thinking.

Joseph sat in the car looking at his watch. Just a few hours to go and his plan would come to fruition and he would have a pocket full of money and jump on the first train out of Glasgow. The promise that he made his grandfather of them all starting over again in a new town was a lie. He had no intention of taking his grandparents with him. He would give the old guy some money but then he would disappear never to resurface again. He had had enough of Glasgow, enough of university and wanted something else in his life. Maybe London for a few months or maybe abroad perhaps Ibiza working in a pub. That sounded glorious.

His thoughts were interrupted when his grandfather jumped into the driver's seat of the car. "Keys." he said putting out his hand and Joseph dutifully handed them to him before saying "Remember stick to the plan." His grandfather simply nodded with an expression on his face that told him that he was a very reluctant participant.

# Chapter Ten

It was pitch black by the time they reached their destination. They parked their car behind an old Oak tree so as not to be seen by anyone passing by. His grandfather had told him that they were so far from the main road no-one would see them but he wasn't taking any chances. There was too much at stake for them to be seen now.

"You stay here. I'll be back in a few minutes." Joseph said but his grandfather ignored him and got out of the car. "I'm going with you." he told him and they spent the next few minutes arguing back and forth. "OK you stubborn old mule but keep beside me and do exactly as I say." Joseph told him and his grandfather nodded to indicate that he understood.

Moving the old oil barrel away from the outhouse door the two men crept inside and waited in the darkness for their eyes to adjust to their surroundings. The full moon shone its light through the holes in the roof and when their eyes adjusted to the darkness, they could see the outline of someone sitting in the corner. On further inspection, they could see that it was just a bundle of clothes. "You looking for someone?" a gruff voice echoed from a darkened corner of the outhouse. The two men turned to see Big Rab himself standing staring at them. In his right hand, he held a hand gun which was pointed directly towards them.

"After all I have done for you and your family this is how you repay me." Big Rab said and Joseph stared at his grandfather. "What the hell is going on? Do you two know each other?" he asked and his grandfather shrugged his shoulders. "You were my most trusted friend and you do this to me." Big Rab snarled spitting as he spoke. Paul Donnelly stared at Big Rab for a few seconds before lowering his eyes to a gun that was now in his own hand.

Rab McKenzie looked at the man standing in front of him. "How could you do this to me Paul? You were my right-hand man. The only man I could trust and now this." he said with a mixture of anger and confusion in his voice. "I did this for my grandson." Paul answered before glancing over at Joseph who was standing with his mouth hanging open as if he had just been shot through the heart. "What the fuck is going on? How do you know this piece of shit granddad?" Joseph asked and was surprised when Big Rab threw his head back and laughed.

"Your granddaddy here works for me and has done so for over 35 years. Didn't he tell you?" Big Rab informed Joseph. "Is that true granddad?" Joseph asked but his grandfather did not reply. There were a few seconds of silence when the three men stood staring at each other.

"What happens now Paul? Do we have an old-fashioned shoot out?" Big Rab asked as he inched his way towards them. "Tell me why Paul. I know you couldn't have thought of this all by yourself. Did your grandson help you or did you help him? Whose bright idea was it to kidnap my granddaughter and try to extort money from me?" he demanded holding tighter and tighter to his gun. "Before I shoot you both dead I want to know why?" Paul glanced at his grandson. "Why don't you ask me that question? This was all my idea. "You murdered my father and you were damn well responsible for my mother's death too. She might have been a drug addict but it was you who supplied the drugs." Joseph said through gritted teeth feeling every nerve is his body start to tingle.

"What is he talking about Paul? You know I wasn't responsible for your son Andrew's murder. If I was then his body would never have been found." Big Rab said, watching Paul Donnelly shake his head. "I don't know anything of the sort." he replied moving closer to his grandson.

"I don't understand. If you thought that, why wait for over a year to confront me about this. Why kidnap my granddaughter and murder her friend?" Big Rab said watching the shocked expression on his former friend's face.

Paul gasped in disbelief and couldn't understand what he was saying. "She was tied to a tree. She wasn't murdered. If she got hyperthermia then that was not the intention. We thought she would be found quite quickly." Paul explained and watched as Big Rab shook his head. "She was tied to a tree alright but she was also strangled." he replied.

Paul turned to his grandson. "What's he talking about Joseph? You wouldn't have harmed that girl, would you?" he asked and saw by the expression on his grandson's face that Big Rab was telling the truth. "No! Please Joseph tell me he's lying. You're not a murderer." Paul said in an anguished voice unable to believe that his own grandson could be so evil as to take the life of a young girl. Joseph grabbed the gun from his grandfather's hand and pointed it towards Big Rab, who by this time was inching closer and closer. "Stop right there." Joseph demanded and seeing the look on the young man's face, he immediately obeyed. "Please Joseph tell me it's not true. Tell me the bastard is lying. Please." Paul pleaded. Joseph spoke to his grandfather without taking his eyes away from Big Rab's face. "Shut the fuck up. She would have identified us. You know that. I had no choice."

Silence once more engulfed the outhouse and the atmosphere was so tense that they would have been able to hear a pin drop. The hoot of an owl brought Paul Donnelly back to earth with a bang. "Give me that damn gun Joseph." Paul demanded. "Get the hell away from me." Joseph screamed glancing quickly at his grandfather.

"Look you are both dead men anyway. Do you really think I came here alone? Now put your gun down." Big Rab demanded, nodding towards the door. Blocking the doorway stood six burly men, all with guns in their hands. "What happens now?" Paul asked. "Well let's see; I have my granddaughter back safely; I'm not out of pocket in any way; my one trusted friend stabbed me in the back; and you both now have seven guns pointed at you." Big Rab replied.

Both men looked at each other and in that moment, knew that they were dead. It only took a second for Big Rab to pull the trigger on his gun and shoot Joseph straight through the head. The noise echoed throughout the outhouse and Paul stifled a scream as his grandson dropped to the floor.

As Paul bent down to Joseph's body Big Rab picked up the gun that fell from his hand and now stood aiming the two guns at his once trusted right-hand man. "Your next. No-one does this to me and gets away with it." he told Paul, who by this time was weeping uncontrollably for his dead grandson.

In the distance police sirens could be heard coming along the road only about 3 minutes away. Big Rab told his men to disappear and that he would deal with the rest of the situation and meet up with them later at the pub. "Are you sure?" one of the men asked. "Yeh. Self-defense boys. Now beat it before the cops arrive." he replied without lifting his gaze from Paul who was leaning over Joseph's body weeping.

Within seconds the men had gone. "You know what you've done? Paul asked with anger in his voice "Yeh I killed him before he killed me." Big Rab replied. "And you are next." Paul stood up and faced the man who murdered his grandson. "You killed your own son Rab." Paul told him.

"What are you fucking talking about." he replied ready at any second to fire the guns and shoot him dead. "He's your son. His mother came to my son already pregnant with your child." Paul told him wiping the tears from his eyes. "What!" he exclaimed unable to comprehend what he was being told. "Andrew told me just after Joseph was born. He loved her and didn't care but swore me to secrecy. Even Joseph here didn't know that you were really his father." Paul told him as he stood up and faced him.

"You're talking shit. You're just playing for time, till the cops get here." Big Rab replied unconvinced by the garbage coming out of his once trusted friend's mouth. "Well you'll be dead by the time they get here; don't you think you won't." he told him and Paul shook his head. "Am I lying Rab? Tell me what is your middle name? Could it be Joseph by any chance? And I know you're going to kill me before the cops get here and claim self-defense. But I'm telling you the damn truth."

The shock of this discovery shook Big Rab to the core. And it was with these seconds of confusion that Paul jumped up and pulled one of the guns from his hand. The two men faced each other with the guns ready to fire.

"Well this is it Rab. Looks like none of us will get out of this one alive." Paul told him. "Guess so Paul. We've been through a lot together but life is a bitch sometimes. "And with that both men shot at each other. Both bullets hit their targets and both bodies fell to the ground simultaneously.

As the moonlight shone through the door, DI Watson and DS Watson along with around a dozen armed police officers, rushed into the outhouse. They were confronted with three bodies all lying close together and all with gunshots to the temple. "What the hell!" exclaimed George Watson. "Looks like we got here too late. No sign of the granddaughter so she must have got away." Mike said looking around the outhouse. "Right I'm going to call this in George. Tell the men not to touch anything. Forensics have a lot of work to do here." he said before disappearing outside.

When he returned George met him at the door and pointed out to him that one of the dead men was Robert McKenzie. "I wonder who the other two were." Mike said walking over towards the bodies again. George followed him and they both bent down for closer look. "You got a torch George." asked Mike. "Only a small one." he replied reaching into his jacket pocket. Mike shone the torch first on the face of Big Rab. "Yup it's definitely him." he announced. Moving over to where the old man's body was laying, he quickly recognized him as Paul Donnelly.

"What the hell. He's been Big Rab's right hand man for decades." he told George. "What about him. Do you recognize him?" George asked pointing to the body of the young man lying on the ground in a puddle of dirty water. Mike shone the torch on his face. "Nope don't recognize him but the poor bugger is in his early 20's. I wonder if he was the kidnapper and Big Rab and Paul Donnelly discovered him and somehow there was a shoot-out." Mike replied suddenly noticing that there were only two guns lying on the ground next to the bodies.

"Yes, seems logical. I'm no expert but it all looks a bit odd to me." George said pointing towards the guns. "Look at the way the gun is laying beside this man you call Paul Donnelly. The way it is positioned, it looks like he was the one who shot Big Rab. Mike stood up and turning off the torch handed it back to George. "Let's not get ahead of ourselves. Wait for forensics do their jobs. I'm sure we will soon know the whole picture. Right, we will leave a couple of officers here and we can get back to the station and speak to the DCI." Mike said and George nodded in agreement.

The DCI was shocked at the news. With guns being involved and gangsters shooting each other he suddenly began to regret his decision on moving to the city.

As soon as Mike and George appeared at the station they were summoned to his office. "Seems that the girl, Jennifer McKenzie, is safely tucked up in bed. Officers are at the house now informing Mrs McKenzie of her husband's death." the DCI informed them. "Any clues to the other two?" he asked. "I recognised Paul Donnelly who was Big Rab's right-hand man but we didn't identify the young man." Mike told him

"Your informer was right with his information DI Watson. It's just a pity he didn't tell you before Big Rab otherwise everything would have turned out different tonight." the DCI told him and the two detectives nodded. "Get yourselves off home now. Nothing more to do with this case, until forensics get back to us." the DCI told them as he walked over and opened his office door. Mike and George immediately obeyed.

# Epilogue

(Two months later)

As soon as DS George Wilson walked through the door of the station he somehow felt relieved. The decision that he had struggled with, all these months was finally made, much to his wife's delight. Today was his last day as a detective and in a few days, he will start a new life for himself, his wife Melissa and their baby daughter Lisa.

PC King looked up from his desk and smiled as soon as he saw him enter the station. "Last day then. How are you feeling?" he asked and George returned a smile and rubbed his hands together to indicate his extreme glee. "Australia." PC King said, "Cool."

George walked through the swing doors and into the office just as everyone stood up and clapped. After several "Good on you." and "You lucky boy." He walked over to his desk and opened his desk drawer to find that it was filled to the brim with sand. The room of detectives soon burst out laughing and looking over at Mike standing whistling with his arms crossed, he knew who was responsible. "Very funny Mike but I'm not the one that has to clean this up." George said jokingly.

"When are you off?" Mike asked. George pulled a funny face as he tried to calculate how many days he had in Glasgow until he and his family flew off. "Five days, twenty minutes and twenty-four seconds." he replied looking down at his watch. "Very funny. You were always a funny bugger you." Mike told him and they both decided to go early for a tea break. Today, George told himself, he was going to take it easy.

"Breakfast is on me. Do you want a full Scottish with black pudding? Don't know if you can get black pudding down under." Mike joked. "If you're paying, why not." George replied.

As they sat at the table they discussed past cases, past enemies inside and outside the station, and the results of the kidnapping case. "Seems that the young man was Paul Donnelly's grandson." Mike told George. "Yes, I heard that but I don't know why all this happened if they were all friends." George replied a little confused but not overly worried. This was his last day and what the criminal elements in the city or even the whole country got up to was not going to be his concern anymore.

"Well this Joseph Donnelly was actually the boyfriend of Big Rab's granddaughter. Maybe it was something to do with revenge. I heard on the grapevine that the young man's father was murdered just over a year ago. It was somewhere down in England but I suppose Big Rab had many connections. You know it's weird three murders, all solved, case closed and no-one to put behind bars." Mike told him and watched as George tucked into his breakfast as if he hadn't eaten for days. "You're hungry. Is the old ball and chain not feeding you these days?" Mike asked and George gave him a wry smile.

"I meant to ask you Mike how are you getting on with your son Aaron. Is he still having those terrible tantrums?" George asked and saw the expression on Mikes face change.

"We took him to the doctor and then the hospital for tests. He has actually something wrong with his bowels and they want to operate. You know it's weird but I knew there was something wrong. Susan just made excuses about why he cried so much. The poor little devil must have been in a lot of pain. Anyway he' on medication and he is to have more tests before the operation. We were told he will make a complete recovery." Mike told him. "Well that's good news that it can all be sorted." George replied sipping his coffee. "You are some detective Mike."

Mike smiled at him. "The boys are having a few drinks after work and you won't be getting home till late so you better let Melissa know. "Do I have a choice in the matter Mike?" George asked jokingly. "You have absolutely, definitely, positively, no choice in the matter." Mike replied.

"Anyway, you are getting out of the police force just in the nick of time. The rumours are true. All the regions are merging and becoming Police Scotland and over six police stations are to close. "Mike informed him. "What about this station? Do you know if this place will stay open?" George asked him and watched as Mike shrugged his shoulders. "It's all change here and to tell you the truth I wish I was leaving. I have been saying for years that I want out but realistically there is nothing else I can do. At least you have an engineering degree behind you and I'm sure you will love Australia." Mike told him. "I'm damn sure I will. Melissa has been packing for weeks and has already handed in her notice to the university. She has been great at organizing everything. I didn't need to lift a finger." George said with a big grin on his face. "Well I knew she would aren't all woman great organisers. Susan has already chosen our next holiday and I didn't have a bloody say as usual." Mike replied and immediately the two detective's laughter echoed around the canteen.

Jennifer McKenzie returned to school and her grandmother Rose moved back home to look after her. Jennifer inherited the house and the vast majority of her grandfather's money from his will. She was becoming closer to her grandmother again and she was glad of that. She needed all the support she could get as she had a complication that could not be ignored for long. Her growing belly hid a secret. She wore baggy clothes in order to hide her pregnancy, as she knew her grandmother would say that she was too young and would try to persuade her to have an abortion. She didn't want to get rid of the baby growing inside her. Joseph had acted like a madman but she still loved him, even though he was dead. He was her first love and the love she felt for him will be transferred to their baby. At the right time, when it was too late to get rid of it, she would tell her grandmother.

Sitting in a large armchair, the old grey-haired woman stared out of the window, into the landscaped gardens of the care home. She had been forced out of her home a week after her husband and grandson were buried. Social Services had said she couldn't look after herself and a place was found at the Sunshine Care Home.

She felt a great sadness, hanging in her heart, over her husband and grandson's death. To this day no-one could tell her what happened on that fateful night, two months ago, when her whole reason for living was taken away. She thought of her son Andrew and this sadness added to the rest, seemed too much to bear. The tears started to fall. She had things to tell her husband that now he will never know.

After over ten years of trying for a baby, her husband was over the moon when her son was born. Andrew was the spitting image of his father, which disgusted her. She had tried so many times over the first few months of his life to get close to him, to love him but for some reason she just couldn't find any love in her heart for her baby son.

Paul had been patient with her and after a visit from the doctor she was eventually diagnosed with depression. With the help of medication, the depression soon lifted and the bond that tied mother to baby slowly reattached. The love for her baby had suddenly overwhelmed her and completely filled her heart. But the secret was always there, lurking in the background, spoiling the joy that she should have felt. Becoming a mother was something that she had yearned and prayed for and eventually her dream had come true but there was a darkness that surrounded her dream.

She had tried over the years and had somewhat succeeded in pushing the secret to the back of her mind but every now and again it would reappear and completely spoil her happiness. She had wanted desperately to tell her husband and had tried on several occasions but something always stopped her and she knew why that was. If Paul had known about the secret it, he would have done something dangerous and put his own life at risk.

"Want a cuppa Annie?" the care assistant asked disrupting her thoughts. "Are you alright love?" she asked noticing the tears running down the old woman's face. Annie simply nodded and received a hug. "A nice cuppa will make you feel better. And we have bingo tonight. I know you like your bingo." The care assistant said before rushing out to tell the nurse that Annie had been crying again.

She was sad now for keeping the biggest secret of her life from her beloved husband. But she did it to protect him. Andrew was not his child. One night when her husband had been working late, a visitor had come to the door wanting to speak to him. Before she knew it, she had been dragged into the living room and raped. When her husband arrived back home over three hours later she had pulled herself together and acted as if nothing had happened.

Nine months later she gave birth to Andrew and had thought of telling her husband the truth but postnatal depression had reared its ugly head. It took a long time for her to love her son but eventually when she had recovered she realised that he was a gift from God but wished hell and damnation for his father. She suddenly stopped crying and wiped her tears. At least justice had been done. The bastard that had raped her, Rab McKenzie was now lying rotting in his grave.

The End

