Cold Blooded

By Genevieve Ang

SMASHWORDS EDITION

****

Copyright 2019 Genevieve Ang at Smashwords.

https://www.smashwords.com/profile/view/Gen05

Cover Design: Genevieve Ang

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. Please do not upload this book on any other websites. Thank you for respecting the work.

***

This novella is a work of fiction and the characters and events in it exist only in its pages and in the author's imagination.

Dedication

To the strong women surrounding me in my life, my dad for raising strong women and the youths who had to overcome all odds in life to prove it to others that they could.

Table of Contents

Forward

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Chapter 9

Chapter 10

Chapter 11

Chapter 12

Chapter 13

Chapter 14

Chapter 15

Chapter 16

Chapter 17

Epilogue

Forward

When I was younger (and even now) I have always loved watching action-packed movies. However, I always wondered why the female lead would be portrayed to be the damsel in distress. Of course, film and books made progress over the years with more female-led movies and books. But it still got to me that to make the story complete there had to be a love interest for the main female character.

I always loved writing since young, from fanfictions of my favourite superhero series to short stories that I write whenever I'm on the train to school. So it's safe for me to say that this is unapologetically me. My values, my beliefs and my ideas smashed together to create a story that allows one to jump into another universe and still be anchored by reality. Most importantly, I hope that one can find relatability in the hidden messages throughout my book.

What is a strong woman? Sure I'm all for women who aren't afraid to throw down and my respect definitely goes out to career women in today's society where they have to balance family and work.

But the definition doesn't stop there. Let's appreciate all the strong women that have risen from challenges and trauma, let's appreciate those who weren't afraid to stand up for themselves when everyone told them otherwise.

This is my first attempt at writing something that came 100% from me and as much as I'm no JK Rowling, I sincerely hope that my character can prove that women can be strong in their own right and be unafraid that strength rises through vulnerability.

Love, Gen

Chapter 1

Five years ago.

Somewhere in West Sersele,

Time: 2004 hours

The crunching of dead leaves could be heard from a mile away biting through the humidity. Eyes bloodshot and stricken from terror, she continued to clumsily navigate her way through the darkness that only caused the pace of her heart to increase. She wished to scream, to cry for help but it was of basic understanding that she only had herself to depend on.

Limping into a nearby cemetery, her eyes scanned around the place for the dead to seek temporary refuge. All she needed was to shake 'it' off and she'll be a free woman walking-

Desperately contorting herself behind the cold marble behind a grave, she held her breath. 'It' was near. She prayed that the grave sucked her whole, whoever laid beyond the soil, she was prepared to give her own life in exchange for theirs. If only she could.

✽✽✽

Sersele, Innis Street

Time: 0330 hours

Sweat dripped across the tiles as Lia made a beeline for the kitchen counter. Grabbing the icy bottle, she gulped down the liquid hungrily feeling the burn against her throat. Another nightmare, another five-mile run. Every muscle in her body was screaming to rest. But her mind was perfectly awake. The location where she would be held varied from a laboratory miles below the surface to an abandoned factory. However, it was the man in question. Clad in surgical scrubs, he didn't need his mask for the darkness protected his identity. Lia's eyebrows scrunched in concentration, he didn't need the dark. In fact, he wanted her to know. As she nears the end of her repeated sentence in semi-consciousness, the man steps halfway into the light projected onto her. Just like Two-Face in her favourite Batman movie.

Phone beeping, she swapped her water for a towel.

'Free to talk? I'm downstairs.' Smiling to herself Lia made a hasty reply.

✽✽✽

'I would be pretty freaked if it was someone else.' A washed-up Lia re-entered the kitchen.

'I'll take that as a compliment.` A set of the brownest eyes stared back at her with a chuckle. Wearing khaki cargo pants and a t-shirt with the name 'Anna'. 'As much as I would like to chat about your abnormal sleep cycles, I think you would want to hear this.' Thrusting a brown file forward.

A ghastly sight greeted Lia on the front page. A young boy face drained of colour, body still intact, she prayed that he suffered a painless death.

'Coast Guard found him floating 18 miles offshore. Just like the previous few, the body's still intact, cause of death was massive blood loss. The coroner has yet to get back to me but based on those,' Anna jabbed her finger to victim's neck 'I'm dead sure it's got to be the work of the same guy.'

Lia tensed midway. Lia's frequent nightmares were of common knowledge between the two friends after her life-threatening experience in Sersele. Since then, her life before was not to be spoken about to anyone. Until now.

'You think it's another message. That they're coming for me.'

'I don't think - I know.' Anna emphasized earning her a steely look from Lia upon the revelation of her main purpose of intruding her home at an ungodly hour. 'What I'm trying to say, you need to consider going under the protection pro-'

'What if I don't want to!' Now Lia felt anger rushing through her. 'What if I want them to come to me because it's the best chance we got to nailing these blood-sucking bastards?' Couldn't anyone understand? It wasn't the fear from being locked from humanity, it wasn't the helplessness of losing grip on reality, it was the rage that her captors got away scot-free while all she had was bits of her memories floating around, being constantly on the run.

The ends of Anna's mouth pursed tightly together. Lia knew she had more to say but turned towards the refrigerator, signalling the end of the conversation. A sigh escaped from the former, 'Fine, but you know you have to face this eventually. Call me soon.' Shutting the door behind her.

Walking through the silence, she grabbed the bottle of water. For an early morning conversation between the two, it was unusually filled with heavy tension. But she knew one thing from the curt exchange - sooner or later, she would have to face the monsters that brought chaos into her life five years ago.

✽✽✽

Unknown Location,

Time: 0415 hours

A thin figure remained hunched over the microscope. On the left were vials of tubes containing various substances ranging from the colour of muddy brown to bloody red. Smacking lips, realization hit them that they were in the room for a very long time without movement, water or food. Switching off the light beside the table, they stood up to stretch their limbs. Another long day, another dead end. Walking towards the door at the back, they placed their iris next to the retinal scanner. They were absolutely confident that no ordinary being would be able to find the laboratory - but it was better to be safe than sorry. They had made remarkable progress in the quest for human evolution, it would be a pity to be caught now.

Door opening, he walked into the misty room. Despite the goggles, their eyes took time to adjust to the settings before admiring the sight and what could be their life's work in front of them.

Multiple pods were lined up against each other where each contained a human body. Boy or girl, all were no exception in the quest for science. Inside the pod were multiple tubes connecting to various parts of the body, analyzing the human anatomy.

Most were showing positive results but it was not close to the perfection they desired. The rare few that were 'flawed' were removed from the system. It seemed callous, but it would have done them a favour by ending their suffering on Earth itself.

If only they had the final touch, the unique genetic sample that was deemed perfect to create the faultless soldier. To develop abilities that even a superhuman could dream of. But carelessness had gotten the better of them five years ago, the subject in question managed to evade the ironclad security of the building into the unknown.

Hot bubbling anger started to rise but they took a deep breath. It was a pity, but not for long. Typing away at the search bar, personal data appeared in bolded red,  'ESCAPED' . She still looked exactly the same as they remembered her to be, with her prominent shoulder length jet black hair, almond shaped face with a sharp gaze that differentiated her from the pack.

She was thought to be a ghost, but not for long. They vowed to get her back, even if it meant taking a life for the greater good of science.

✽✽✽

Chapter 2

Sersele Centre for Youths and Young Adults,

Time: 0900 hours

Lia stumbled into the coffee scented office precariously holding a cup of chamomile tea in her left as she navigated her way to her desk. Nose scrunching from the deliciously strong scent of Arabica coffee beans, it was a reminder why she opted for the current. Sure it did help to add extra fuel to last through whatever the day had to throw at you but too much became an addiction and the illusion that your body was indestructible by adopting unhealthy sleeping habits. Sure her body would be exhausted during any tiring or bad day but at least it was a reminder that it was only normal and she wasn't to be blamed for what happened.

'We got another case.' Just as she leaned into the backrest that Anna bought for her as a birthday gift two years back. Pinching the bridge of her nose, she took the document for examining. Her hopes of starting the day slow were thrown out of the window and had just lost the first round 'what life threw at me today'.

'He was bought in for vandalizing the police station?' Lia quizzically glanced at her co-worker, Jaylah questioningly, eyebrows raised.

'What you see is the truth,' Jaylah quipped as her orange-coloured braids swished side to side. 'Funny thing though - Heard that he didn't put up a fight with the police, just accepted his fate and here he is.'

Which was indeed funny. For the past seven years that Lia worked at the centre, most people walking through the front doors was definitely not by will. Perhaps her day was about to get more interesting.

Before she could delve into her thoughts further, it came back to her attention that Jaylah was still there. 'Alright, I'll take a look at it. Thanks.' And pretended to delve her nose into the document, a sign for all her other co-workers to leave her in her own thoughts.

Shifting her fullest attention to her document, she noticed that unlike other cases, the details were brief apart from his personal information:

Classified Personal Information

Name: Taylor Jones

Age: 17

D.O.B: 21/02/02

Address: Not stated

Next of kin and background information:

\- Consists of a father, mother and younger brother

\- Father was incarcerated for multiple drug trafficking offences

\- Parents are divorced and the mother has not contacted family since divorce

\- Brothers were reported AWOL at local youth shelter twice by child services

\- Younger brother, Theo was reported missing 4 1/2 months ago

Offence:

Jones was found to have vandalized the side of the police station with graffiti. When bought in, Jones did not give any motives for his sudden actions.

It wasn't much to work with at first sight, but she knew enough. It was time for another new day.

✽✽✽

Sersele Police Department,

Time: 1015 hours

Anna frowned at the large map plastered in front of her. It wouldn't be an exaggeration when it was said her team had been cracking their heads at the multiple homicide cases springing up at every corner of Sersele. After what it seemed to be for months, they had managed to build a consistent modus operandi of what they dubbed as 'The Vampire' but had no reliable leads. Frustration and helplessness were running high and Anna was not excluded, but she knew she couldn't give up now, not when her best friend could provide her with a major lead to progress the case.

'There were pods like the ones we saw while watching Star Trek and I saw people inside! I didn't even know if they were dead or alive! Tubes... So much blood...'

The conversation with Lia after the rescue operation was nothing beyond absurd at that moment. The psychologist had come back with the assessment that due to the traumatic nature of the event, Lia was most likely to repress the event with only fragments of memories present.

It was wishful and slightly selfish thinking that Lia would be ready to come forward but it was not her jurisdiction to judge.

✽✽✽

Sersele Centre for Youths and Young Adults,

Time: 1032hr

An hour had passed and apart from one-sided pleasantries, the boy was perched in his plastic chair with his arms crossed.

'Like I said Taylor, nothing in this room goes out unless necessary.'

Thick silence continue to suffocate the room. It was time for her to see if her intuition was accurate even if it was unprofessional and could pass off as an assumption. But she needed a breakthrough now.

'Look, I know the basics. You vandalized the side of a police station, and you didn't run. If you ask me, I think you needed the attention. So I'm here and I hope you can let me help you.' Lia lingered onto her last words before it went up in smoke.

'I think I knew how my brother disappeared.'

Jackpot.

Shifting in his seat, the facade of a young man who was forced to grow up too soon broke. 'I told the same to the police but they didn't believe me! Thought I was some delinquent craving for attention all because my parents couldn't give me the attention I and my brother deserved!

'My brother was all I had, we depended on each other. But one day we got into this huge argument. He found a place with his friends at the shelter, they were looking for volunteers... and it came with big benefits. He begged me to go but I told him that it wasn't safe and he wasn't to go as well. He got really angry with me, told me that I was always controlling him and before I knew it? He took off the next thing in the morning before sunrise. Never came back.' Taylor trailed off hoarsely as he lowered his head, as if careful of another outburst.

Choosing her next words carefully Lia continued calmly, 'I get what you're telling me but, why me?'

'Because everyone knows your the only one that escaped! It's got to be the same psychopath behind all the dead bodies and missing people. I figured you'd be the best person to help me, to help others.'

Escaped . As she handheld her pen in an unknowing death grip, her breathing became shallower and the flurry of activity behind the door about datelines and reports became murkier. She wished the insides of her chest would stop stretching at will before it snapped. It was as if all of a sudden she was in the pitch dark room. No matter how hard she tried, she couldn't escape.

'Miss Lia?' Taylor's wobbly voice pushed her back into reality. Lia had every urge to end today's session but regaining her sight and senses, the poor kid looked at wits end. There was no way she could ignore this. The sinking feeling of being all alone when you needed help and to be understood. No one should ever have to go through it.

'Sorry about that,' mind cleared, Lia hoped that she made the right and what could possibly be the biggest decision of her life.

'Give me whatever you have and I'll take a good look at it.'

✽✽✽

Chapter 3

Phoenix Hospital, Downtown

Time: 1345 hours

It was right after lunchtime but nurses were running up and down the aisle, tending to the needs of patients in various wards while doctors were hurriedly belting out instructions. Adding on to the stressors that came along with the duties, a flat-screen TV dictated their every move, where each individual was supposed to be a command. A mixture of chaos and order. Which was exactly what drew Malcolm to a complex but fulfilling profession.

'Doctor Frey!' An intern rushed forward with the stethoscope bouncing against his chest.

'I just want to say, I really liked your presentation this morning on activating one's genetic structure in their blood as a next-generation cure and I was wondering if I could ask you some questions if you had the time? It's for my reflection paper and it'll be great if I could get your input on it.'

A twinge of annoyance poked at him just as he was getting back into the zone. He wanted to swat him off like all the others but he couldn't help but be intrigued at the piqued interest that he was receiving that was perhaps overdue. Forcing himself back into his professional persona Malcolm gave a tiny smile, 'Of course, I could spare the time for a curious mind, in fact, I happen to spare some time before my next rounds. So fire away.'

It was clear that the intern was shell-shocked that the Head Doctor from the Genetical Transfusion department would give him the time of day but composed himself for the precious time.

'So I wanted to understand your thoughts about the sceptics from the medical jury regarding safety concerns and the feasibility of activating the patient's DNA and reconfiguring their genetic structure to cure any kind of illness? The idea would surely go beyond the 21st century and the possibility of reducing mortality rates by the thousands would be a saviour for mankind.'

Malcolm gave a humourless laugh, 'It is true the process would require certain risks that may extend to death but as you said - the sacrifice of one for medicinal purposes can benefit millions of others suffering from the same cause. As for the feasibility, I have known great minds who have carried out the exact same research. Seeing is believing, results don't lie.'

'But isn't our duty as a doctor to find a solution with the least harm?' as they turned left for the elevator. Again with the incessant questions.

'I stand by what I said. There is clear evidence that the transfusion process works and as long as someone benefits from it, there is no loss.' The green arrow pointing upwards blinked, signalling the elevator's entrance, and the end of this interview for Malcolm.

'That was a nice chat, however, I must get going to prepare for my rounds.' As Malcolm stepped into the lift, index finger automatically gravitating towards the close button.

'Alright then, thank you for the time Doctor-'

Pressing his eyes momentarily, he was finally glad to be rid of the menace who questioned his better judgment. He had deviated from his usual routine today thanks to the unnecessary disturbance but there was no time for complaining. It was time to get back on track as he walked out of the lift into the patient wards.

✽✽✽

Sersele Centre for Youths and Young Adults,

Time: 1457 hours

Surrounded by a mountain of paperwork, another tea bag flew into the bin for the fourth time of the day while Lia dunked another into her mug, chasing for the record title of six cups. She glanced at her notepad to reorganize her thoughts.

1. Check with youth shelter to get more background on brothers.

2. What were they volunteering for? Check for insider information.

3.

If only she could write the next step, it would bring her a step closer - who was she kidding? She wasn't the police, this wasn't in her jurisdiction. Lia tried hard to brush the uneasy feeling settling within her but she clearly knew she was too quick into jumping in, too involved. All because the kid had appealed to her past, like a key to a chest, she opened easily.

But what if the kid had a point? If his disappearance was linked to her own - Sersele was only that small and the country was generally crime-free till then - and now. She never wanted to relieve those horrid memories but a part of her knew that she had to face her demons if she ever wanted them brought to justice.

Phone blaring throughout the office, Lia abandoned her haystack of notes and reached for the call feeling hopeful of the identity on the other line.

'Lia Tay.'

'Good afternoon Lia, this is David Mckelken from Lightspring Youth Shelter, I believed you called enquiring about a Theo Jones on an official request from the Centre themselves?'

'Yea I did, his older brother is currently under our supervision and it seems that Theo is his only relative living with him?' Lia felt like tiptoeing around the edges, not wanting to scare Mckelken off with what she the ultimate question she was withholding back.

'Your right, but he took off with a group of them to participate in some project and never came back. We filed a report but those boys were gone for good, no leads.'

A project . Taylor only told her that they were volunteering for something but he had no knowledge of what it was! And if all the boys disappeared, then

'Ricky Lee was supposed to tag along though. After he heard what happened, he creeped out. Didn't want to tell anyone a single thing that happened.'

'Would it be possible if I get to speak to him?' Lia asked.

'I could arrange it but don't expect much from him.'

'That's enough for me, thank you Officer Mckelken.'

It was another breakthrough, but Lia prayed that it was enough for her to get closer to the unsolved mystery.

✽✽✽

Lightspring Youth Shelter,

Time: 1712 hours

Getting out of the taxi, the first thing that caught Lia's attention was the pastel yellow building. She was greeted by the sight of youths tending to the shelter's gardens where an array of fruits and vegetables were being grown.

Lia likened these youths to diamonds growing in the dirt. Unfavourable circumstances but they had the spark within them. Stopping by to wave at several familiar faces, it reminded her why she took the job in the first place. Climbing up the oak stairs, she found herself face to face with a man in his late 20s with floppy brown hair that looked like he belonged to the world of athletics.

'Officer Mckelken.' Lia shook his extended hand.

'Pleasure's all mine. Ricky's currently at the gymnasium so I'll take you to him.' He motioned down the end of the hallway.

'Thank you,' she paused calculating her options before continuing. 'So what's Ricky's background like here?'

'Kid was the quiet type, you'll never believed he did the dirty work for traffickers. Extortion, gang fights, he did it all. But he made real progress here, we even believed he was changing for the better. Even made a group of friends.' Reaching the doors with his hand on the handle, his nostrils flared. 'But ever since the disappearance, it's as if we went back to step one. Everyone started to steer clear of him, even some of the officers, what I'm trying to say is that - whatever you're doing, give him a chance.'

Lia paused for the second time. Did she appear to be on a personal crusade? She had the physical appearance of a youth worker but the mentality of an aggressive police officer. It was just less than a day but how far had she 'fallen' into the case? It was true she had received permission from her boss to make a trip down, but it was to speak to only Officer Mckelken and no one else. Lia wasn't ecstatic about breaking the rules and reopening old wounds, but Anna's words in the morning pricked at her like a hidden thorn.

'Don't worry, just going to ask him some questions that I think could really help my kid.'

'And me' , as the two exchanged a look of understanding before she entered the gymnasium.

Styled like a typical high school gymnasium with banners of inspirational quotes hung at every viewable corner and a DIY shed filled with second-hand sports equipment at the far end corner what stood out to Lia was the boxing ring right smack in the middle that gave off the stench of sweat.

'Officer Mckelken said you wanted to talk.' A voice piped up causing Lia to flinch. A boy stood across her with an imposing aura as he disposed of his hand wraps in the bin revealing his bruised knuckles.

'I suppose you could use a break first?' Lia switched on her youth worker persona as she referred to the fading but prominent gash that had an eerie resemblance to a Glasgow smile.

'Oh, this? That's just a minor accident from the sparring last week. But you don't mind if we speed things up here? I'm supposed to meet my tutor at 5.30 and I'm not exactly prepared yet.' Ricky gave a wry smile.

'I'll jump straight into it then,' hoping that this conversation was not going to be one of the many bad decisions of her career she continued, 'I was hoping if you could tell me what happened to Theo Jones and the rest of the boys.'

The entire gymnasium went dead silent as Lia braced for the worst. Calloused hands that fisted into the size of a tennis ball, every nerve in Lia's body prepared her for an unexpected attack. What she did not expect was the sign of defeat as Ricky sank into a lone chair next to the ring.

'I told them everything I knew but with my history? I wasn't a witness, I was a  freaking  suspect. So if your here for the same thing, I suggest you can get the hell out.'

The sign of one being cornered was all too familiar but body language triumphed verbal accusations by multitudes. Anger was radiating off him by thousands but it was marred with tinges of confusion and sadness. There was definitely something holding him back, something that acted as a gun to his head to ensure his silence, but perhaps what he needed was the confidence that couldn't be done alone.

'I'm sorry you had to endure the pain of being ostracized and having forceful reminders of your past when you're the only trying to run away from it. No one should ever have to go through that. That's why I'm here. My boy's not only trying to prove himself but he needs the closure if Theo is still out there somewhere - you're not only helping a family, but you'll get the closure you need. No more having to look over your shoulder, you can start all over again. It's never too late.'

The red numbers on the digital clock read 5.22pm. A stampede of youths could be heard through the thin walls as each rushed for their next schedule for the day. Standing up, Ricky grabbed his bag and started walking towards the exit.

Turning back he let out a heavy sigh, 'Look, some hospital was recruiting volunteers for some medical research. Theo met the guy working for them outside the centre, said the hospital would compensate heavily for their time in monetary benefits. Told him to rope in others. We needed the cash, why not? The pay was ten times higher than my part-time job at the Chinese Restaurant.'

'Did you know which hospital it was?'

'No, sorry. But I remembered Theo telling me it was around Downtown. '

'You sure?' Lia pressed as she tried her best not to sound pushy.

'Yeah, damn sure. I couldn't go because Officer Mckelken wanted to talk to me about my recent drop in grades in the semester. I was pretty bummed out but figured if I wanted to get into college, I know my priorities. Anyways I got to run before I get another infringement from Officer Mckelken.' Before bolting out into the hall leaving Lia in the trail of her own thoughts.

✽✽✽

Phoenix Hospital, Downtown

Time: 1920 hours

The scene of the afternoon mad rush was no more as machines beeped and the sound of calm music lulling patients into slumber.

Enclosed in his room that smelled of an overdose of disinfectant, Malcolm was hunched over his laptop as he updated his daily schedule. Today felt sedentary with a couple of consultations and meetings which he was surprisingly ok with after today's conversation that still felt irksome.

Switching his attention to the buzzing device next to his laptop, he picked it up to read the income message.

She knows.

This wasn't a good sign. He was too close and now he was about to have her slip away from his grasp forever. Or worse, have his life's work taken away from him. Strangely enough, a state of calm washed over him as he gripped onto reality.

Bring her to me.

✽✽✽

Chapter 4

Sersele Centre for Youths and Young Adults

Time: 2000 hours

Piles of files were stacked haphazardly with the computer whirring, Lia had flipped for what was about the 30th file.

'You guys never heard of self-care?' Anna teased as she let herself into the office.

'Not when I got a lead, the kid at the shelter told me where they were intending to 'volunteer' at, if only I can make the connection...' Lia mumbled without sparing a glance.

'What's with the change of tone? Not that I'm happy to see this you this... determined.' Anna struggled to find her words.

Finally giving her eyes a break, Lia responded.  'I know I was afraid when it sounded like  he came back out again and trust me I'm still questioning myself on this but if I'm the only one that escaped, there may be still other people in there and it's on me to find them.'

Giving her a second look, Anna sat on the stool next to Lia. 'And you want me to help you.'

'If the offer still stands.'

' You know this is a breach of conduct right? The last time I gave you information was because I was authorized to try to persuade you to join the protection program.' Anna sighed.

'Then I'll join.' Before Anna could protest, Lia rambled on.

'I've thought this through, Taylor went to the police before he came to me because he didn't have solid evidence; you told me that your people haven't got a definite lead on the serial killer till today. That's  five  years. You told me yourself, as a special witness I can help with the case under security. No one has to risk confidentiality or conduct, all for the greater good.'

'But,'

'Please Anna, I know I was singing a different tune but you also know how much it means to me to be able to hold on to that hope that I can still find the person who did this to me.'

'That's exactly what I'm worried about! When I asked you to join the program, I wanted to give you the safety you needed while you  assisted the police, not to put a big superhero symbol on your chest!' Anna felt on the edge of exasperation.

'I'm not taking on the role of a superhero for anyone and certainly not myself. Sure, I joined because I wanted to make a difference, to do the best within my ability that no one has to endure painful and raw situations but I'm well aware there's only so much I can do. All I'm asking is for the chance to look at my past straight in the eye and get the proper closure I need and maybe closure for others too.'

Anna was torn. She was glad that her friend had finally seen light to her appeal but the understanding came with the process. She knew she couldn't change Lia's mind once she fixed her mind to it. As her oldest friend, the two walked with each other through thick and thin in each other's lives and this time was no exception. Without a doubt, Anna was worried about the decision she was going to make in the next few crucial seconds but the conscience tugging at her heartstrings told her that Lia's persuasive speech made a point. It also occurred to her that this case had been poking at her police department and specifically her team like an unsightly thorn.

'Let me see what I can do and I'll let you know.'

✽✽✽

Sersele Police Department

Time: 1045 hours,  two days later

Remnants of white chalk fell onto the ground like snowflakes as Anna found herself face to face with the familiar chalkboard.

The victims ranged from various ages and there wasn't a specific preference in gender. But a striking detail glared at her in the face. Those who were identified victims were either current or former residents of youth shelters scattered around Sersele but there wasn't enough evidence to raise an alarm.

'Lieutenant.' She turned around to greet a bespectacled man dressed in a navy blue polo shirt accompanied with cream brown slacks.

'I apologize but your colleague told me that I could find you here, I'm Jonah Yeo, Director for the Youth Shelters Association.' he extended his hand with a white-coloured business card that Anna sneaked a quick glance at before accepting it.

'I did and thank you for coming.' She gestured to the sofa as she flipped the large piece of sheet to cover her work.

'I'll cut to the chase, we have reason to believe that the other victims that turned up dead in the recent months may have a connection to your shelters.'

Confusion was evident as his pupils seemed to be magnified by the thick frames.

'That's impossible, your people told me that Talia Drake's death was due to natural causes!'

'I'm fully aware of that, I'm also aware that Talia's death was the first before many, the coroner was unable to make a full report on it. Hence as a form of courtesy, I'm asking for your permission to retrieve their personal data, autopsy report and reopen the case.' Anna replied firmly.

'Well-'

'I understand the work required from your end is tedious having to recover the data but they can get the justice that they deserve. I'm sure you of all people would know that, with these youths not having anyone but the people who believed in them.'

Tinges of red appeared on his cheeks as he cleared his throat, 'Of course, I'll have the necessary arrangements made. You will keep me in the loop, yes?'

'Without a doubt.' Anna flashed her business-like smile that she always kept for her superiors as she made a mental note to run a background check on the man sitting in front of her. Something about the current conversation wasn't sitting well with her, the man seemed reluctant to reopen the cases and it sounded far more than just tedious paperwork. Although the idea sounded far-fetched but it was a fresh new angle that could just be what she needed. With the protection committee giving Lia the green light to assist the case as a protected witness, it was necessary to capitalize on every possible advantage they had.

✽✽✽

Highway 10

Time: 1120 hours

A sleek black Chevrolet raced past the highway. Behind the tinted windows sat behind Director Yeo and another man with only the agenda of business in between them.

'This may be out of my hands, the pesky Lieutenant of a friend is overseeing the case personally with the help of her team.'

'Then rest assured they won't be getting far with just one lone individual fighting for a lost cause. Not when she cannot remember anything.' The former attempted to placate.

Nostrils flaring, the former replied tersely, 'Have you forgot what I told you or have you become complacent? The girl has already evaded our capture once, we commit the same mistakes again and she won't be just escaping again, we will be the ones caught!'

With an automatic bow of his head, the Director responded apologetically, 'Of course, I haven't forgotten your words, I'm just - looking at a positive perspective.' Struggling to find the correct word in fears of triggering his explosive temper.

'Since the girl is poking her nose in unwanted places, we'll give her exactly what she wants. Frey has instructed you to bring the girl to him and he'll take care of the rest. So for once in your life, get the interview done right. Don't let the Lieutenant suspect you again. ' His voice dripped with disdain.

After exiting the highway, the view of tall skyscrapers that decorated the greyish skyline that came into sight. Rolling to stop, the car door swung open meeting the sounds of officer workers hurriedly making their way back to the office to avoid getting caught in the typical shower.

'Same time, I'll let you know the date and place. Don't screw up.' Before signalling to the driver for take off leaving the other in its trail.

✽✽✽

Chapter 5

Sersele, Innis Street

Time: 1230 hours

Lia got up from the yoga mat as she attempted to complete another pose that the instructor was twisting herself on the device with the television muted to fill the emptiness in the house. The nightmares didn't plague her as badly two nights ago but more disjointed memories flashed through that she was unable to explain.

Artificial lights that looked strong enough to burn through her skin as she found her limbs strapped to the table, completely immobilized. Sprinting past capsules with bodies drained of blood, she found herself shrouded in the vast misty darkness. She wanted to be anywhere but here but the unknown also left her confused and scared. Playing a cat and mouse game with the man in surgical scrubs that seemed to last forever, she found her escape as his head turned towards a stray dog that ran across. 'A beloved daughter and loyal friend' was the last thing she saw before she lost consciousness.

Lia believed that the ordeal was final but if only she had the foresight for the aftermath. For weeks Lia found herself in the psychologist's room, being coerced and cajoled to reveal anything that her broken mind could dig up. When that didn't work, she found herself being chauffeured to and fro by Anna to avoid the hounding of the press who got wind of her escape in record time. By day three, her fight for survival against what they deemed as the most elusive killer in Sersele's history was splashed across the media. But she never wanted any of the publicity. Like any other high profile news, interest dwindled and was extinguished eventually. Everyone went back to their normal lives, including herself.

Until five years later.

When Anna stepped on the front door with news about the death of a young girl named Talia Drake, Lia could not be more certain. A naive young woman, Lia thought that she could outrun her past only for it to be lurking around her in plain sight. Although a hunch, Lia had a terrible feeling that the madness terrorizing the city would only stop if she were to face it herself.

Switching to the news channel, Lia increased the volume as something caught her eye.

'In other news, another collaboration between the Youth Shelters Association and Phoenix Hospital is underway where youths will be able to do some good by volunteering with patients of the genetical transfusion department.'

Lia decided to make herself comfortable as her eyes continued to be fixated on the flatscreen that changed into the insides of the hospital revealing a lean young man with sunken cheekbones sporting a dirty brown crew cut dressed in the usual white coat which news identified him as Doctor Malcolm Frey, Head of the Genetical Transfusion Department.

'We are certainly most glad to be able to extend a hand and make a difference in not only our patients' lives but the youths' as well. I cannot release any more information at this stage but rest assured we are working closely to make the collaboration as smooth as possible.'

One would have immediately applauded the cause of the two organizations but there were also sceptics that Lia harboured especially after getting off with Anna on the phone earlier in the morning. Apparently the Director of the Association displayed unusual behaviour in Anna's standards and perhaps to Lia as well; the man was running a non governmental organization that championed to aid displaced youths that was slowly losing credibility among the public in lieu of the dead (and missing) kids dropping in the morning newspapers like dead flies. Yet there was no intention to publicly address the glaring situation and quell the fears of existing youth residents citywide, but efforts were instead diverted to improve their image as if nothing ever happened.

Phone buzzing, Lia switched off the channel before the screen could change and checked the messenger on the other end. Jaylah.

'Sorry Lee, I know you're off today but the boy insists he's gotta speak to you. What you want me to do?'

An off day sounded too good to be true. Stretching her limbs, she shot a quick reply before heading for the showers:

'No worries, I'll be there in 20.'

✽✽✽

Sersele Centre for Youths and Young Adults,

Time: 1305 hours

The ride to the centre was anything but peaceful as Lia found herself caught in the sudden torrential rain as she attempted to navigate her way from the subway to the centre.

'Where is he?' Lia shook her coat off while grabbing her battered notebook and pen as Jaylah gestures towards one of the back rooms that was typically used for counselling sessions before continuing on her call.

Mouthing a quick thanks, she wasted no time making her way to the back.

'Miss Lia, I'm so sorry but this is really important I couldn't wait I don't know what I should have done will I be in deep trouble? I-'

It was certainly a different scene from two days ago as Taylor's wave of questions almost knocked Lia right out of the room as she found him pacing up and down in the cramped space.

'Hold on Taylor! I need you to sit down and tell me  slowly,  what happened?'

Fighting to regain composure, the boy sank into the flower-themed cushions. 'In the morning, I was doing kitchen duty when I overheard Officer Mckelken's conversation on the phone. He said something about never finding the missing kids,'

'Did you manage to catch the whole conversation? He could have meant it differently.' Lia proceeded with caution as she observed the tightly clenched fists on each of his thighs that she wouldn't be surprised if they turned pale very soon.

'I didn't! But you weren't there, nothing was right about the conversation! It was as if he was making a promise about it and he just wasn't the man that I looked up too.' Taylor protested.

Squeezing her eyes shut momentarily, she found herself at a junction. 'I'm not doubting you Taylor but why didn't you bring it up with another officer even if you didn't trust the police?'

A hollow smile appeared on his freckled face. 'A guy who's been on the streets for half his life, getting into deep shit versus a decorated officer who's devoted his life for the better; Who do you think they'll believe?'

The harsh truth gutted her in the stomach. People  always  had their reservations against others, even if it was the ones that they were helping. And Lia for one was not going to shy away from the reality that she too had her fair share of being blindsided throughout her time at the centre.

'Taylor... I appreciate that you told me all this. It's definitely a lot to take in. Assuming that what you have just told me is all true, I need you to not raise any alarms and let me bring it to the police.'

'You can't!' Before immediately mumbling an apology as he caught onto the look that Lia gave.

'I understand that your worried but again if this is true - you could land yourself in much more danger and that's the last thing I want. I'm sorry Taylor but this could  be  out of my hands so you have to understand me - it's my job to do so.'

'Prepare the serum, the girl has shown great promise. Up the intake by double.'

Lia fought to drag herself back to reality as she continued with conviction and what she sensed - a slight desperation. 'Please, Taylor you need to promise me, do not attempt to approach anything related to this alone.'

Slightly taken aback, he managed a small nod.

'Her reaction to the serum has been exceptional! Soon we will be able to move on to the last phase, a step closer to the perfect soldier!'

'I never doubted your genius for a moment, she has unexpectedly proven herself to be of use.'

'Thank you. I've another meeting on if there's anything you know where to get me.' Lia excused herself as she fought with her mind to be physically present in the room that felt a few degrees hotter as she rushed to the pantry that was hidden behind multiple cubicles.

Hands gripping the sides of the mercury coloured countertop, Lia counted the seconds while she carried out the deep breathing exercise that her psychologist taught her as her racing mind slowly stopped from reeling off course.

'Lee?' Lia felt a gentle tap on her shoulder.  'Oh dear, was it a hard one today?' Jaylah gave a sympathetic smile to her initial confusion until she felt her wet cheeks.

'I'm alright, just a little overwhelmed today.' Lia quipped back as she dried her cheeks. However, her insides had undergone various emotions with one quickly being replaced by another within the short span of time as her tears were replaced with frustration. She had doubts but it never occurred to her that her decision to step into the light was marred with unexplained episodes that left her questioning if her determination to see the bastard get put down was taking a big toll on her emotional state. She told herself that her decision was to benefit others but was it really the case? Was it just a marathon with no end in sight?

'This won't do, you my friend are going straight back home. Call it an occupational hazard or whatever you like but you give your time to people that you forget to give some time to yourself.' Jaylah declared, ushering Lia to the front door while picking up Lia's belongings along the way, thrusting them into the latter's outstretched arms and exchanged a quick goodbye before dashing off to another phone call.

But things were different and Lia wasn't about to go down without a fight. Upon boarding the bus, she sent a message before entering the web on her phone as she prepared herself to be fully occupied throughout the journey to the next destination planned.

✽✽✽

Unknown Location,

Time: 1412 hours

Fingers grazed over the keypad to remove the alarm, the man in the crisp cut suit stepped inside the dimly lit room to greet the doctor who had his front faced towards a transparent tank.

'You better not be wasting my time Frey, I had to rush off in the middle of a lunch appointment with the beneficiaries who happened to be funding this-' waving around all the medical equipment.

'Rest assured you will not regret it. Observe.' Malcolm pushed the lever beside the tank to reveal a young boy in a fighting stance. Unfortunately, his body betrayed him as the man outside could feel immense fear transmitting through the glass. At the other end of the tank was another older boy considerably larger that had a metallic collar slapped on his neck.

Activating several panels on the dashboard, it was obvious the older boy was in considerable pain as the collar tightened.

'I've activated the serum after it has been present in the body for 24 hours. The latest test subject was found to have shown signs of superhuman reflexes and strength.'

Without warning, the younger boy charged, preparing to land the first blow. Upon recovery, the older boy blocked the incoming fist before launching a swift roundhouse kick to the abdomen.

Credit had to be given to the youthful fighting spirit that was being displayed by the former as he went forth with a hail of punches. He would definitely be a high bargain in the market.

The collared boy appeared to be on the losing end as he deflected attacks consecutively until he took a swipe at his unsuspecting opponent. Lunging towards him, the following predictable moments happened in a blur as he held his victim in a joint lock before landing a lethal strike on his jugular.

What the man did not expect was the aftermath of the brutal showdown. Staggering to the side of the glass wall where he and Malcolm stood, the boy slid down to the blood-stained floor, breaking out in cold sweat before collapsing on all fours. With his breathing irregular, the boy struggled for air as he choked on his own blood that flowed freely from his eyes, nose and mouth. Gathering the last ounce of energy, he turned towards the two as if pleading to instantly end his suffering.

'And... about now.' Malcolm glanced at his wristwatch nonchalantly, ignoring the writhing boy slowly losing grip on the plane world as the gurgling slowed to a stop. Peering up Malcolm continued airily, 'As you can see, the serum works. But I lose another subject in the process which means, we-' jabbing him in the chest 'lose potential revenue. I need that girl now especially if it means the exchange with the Syndicate will go through! I believe they do not take kindly to a serum that produces dead bodies.'

Not taking kindly against the jab, the man calmed himself down. 'My men have already seen to that with the arranged interview today, haven't we? But we need. to. be. patient for her memory to trigger.'

'Patience!' Malcolm spat. 'Enlighten me - how can I carry out the test if she isn't in front of me! You better hope the girl takes the bait or I'll find a way myself and you'll have a mess on your plate.' Walking away from the tank, he paused at the door of his personal laboratory.

'As much as it brings me joy to see youths boldly sacrificing themselves for the good of science, I'm sick of having to dispose of the bodies. So don't think I'm joking, I am a man of my word.'

✽✽✽

Chapter 6

Sersele Police Department,

Time: 1524 hours

'You want me to authorize an unofficial investigation into the head of the youth shelters, on what basis Lieutenant?' Chief Emmanuel Tyson peered from the tip of his reading spectacles.

'For withholding possible information that could be vital to the case Chief.' Anna stood her ground in front of the grand mahogany desk while a completely different realm existed outside the room as officers ran in and out of the precinct.

Doing a double-take at the document in his calloused hand, the Chief exhaled deeply, 'To be honest with you, Lieutenant let it be a miracle that you and your team could reopen the case based on the weak evidence your friend submitted to the committee. Be glad that I even allowed your friend to assist with the case! I'm sorry but you know the rules better than anyone here.'

Anna pushed the stack of papers to the side as she ruffled her hair in exasperation. She felt unprofessional back there but it was the strongest hunch she ever had since Lia's disappearance. No way she was going to let go of her grip on the Director.

'Got a minute? I'm downstairs.'  The screen brightened up.

'I got plenty, drinks on me.'  As she left the area hurriedly, glad for an uncalled break.

✽✽✽

Sersele Police Department,

Time: 1550 hours

Neatly tucked away at the corner of the ground floor, with officers and outsiders getting their midday coffee fix, it was the perfect spot to hold a conversation away from prying eyes where the two friends shared what had transpired over the past two days.

'So far the only connection my team has made with all identified victims is that they all were residents of the youth shelters with multiple of them having specific illness that required treatment. But it doesn't make any sense, you didn't fulfil any of the two criteria, so you were an exception?'

Lia glanced at her mug that was still giving out steam. 'No. I'm no expert but a psychopath wouldn't just make it an  'exception' .'

'Some hospital was recruiting volunteers.'

'Anna, would you happen to know by any chance if they got it treated at any of the local hospitals?' Lia prodded.

Glancing at her friend inquisitively, Anna continued. 'Yes and No. The files the Director gave me stated that they all received treatment but no specifics.'

Lia went quiet as she went back staring at her tea bag floating in the water before Anna broke the silence.

'Lia, I know you didn't come here for a chit chat. There's something your not telling me, what is it?'

The possible theory hit her like a train. The visit to the shelter, the sudden public news of the unexpected collaboration and the common connection between the victims. No, it was too much of a coincidence, Lia shook the thought away. It was highly unlikely that someone who had something to hide would be foolish to expose their dirty affairs to the world. Only thing that this wasn't someone ordinary, a psychopath would parade their 'god' work to the world and relish in it.

'Earth to Lia?' Anna waved a hand in front of her face.

'Yeah- sorry spaced out for a little bit. I'm fine.' Attempting to change the subject Lia asked,  'Has your team considered interviewing the youths at the centres?'

'I was hoping you could tell me something about that. After all, youths like them don't really take kindly to authority. Did you by any chance got something out of them? You did mention that Theo had a friend who didn't follow them before.' Anna finished dryly.

All was true except that Lia left out the conversation with Ricky during the  unofficial visit at the shelter. She wasn't one to keep secrets from her best friend but no way could she inform Anna. Apart from not wishing for her friend to know she had crossed a grey line, Anna had gone out of the way to keep her hopes alive of finding her captor - She had heard the entire conversation between Anna and the Chief; reality sounded crude but Lia was well aware that her case could only be open with Anna's authority and rank in the department. The spark in Lia was still evident but she could no longer stand by and watch others fight her battle.

'No you know how kids are. When they keep a secret, they're hell-bent on bringing it to their graves.' Lia gritted her teeth.

Frowning, Anna sipped the last of her coffee before standing up. 'Well can't say that it's optimistic but at least there's progress. I got to go - meeting in 10.'

Jogging away from the shop and into the sea of people, Lia's mind rewinded back to the image of the mysterious doctor on the television. Perhaps it was time to drop in for a harmless visit.

✽✽✽

Chapter 7

Tempest Street,

Time: 0900 hours,  three days later

Lia placed her arms on the wooden armrest as her foot tapped impatiently, waiting for her scheduled appointment with a certain psychologist Layla Chan.

'Thanks for coming today, I know you've been incredibly busy - helping the police and all. How have you been?'

Perturbed and confused were probably the best two words to describe Lia's state of mind but all she could get out was, 'Fine.'

'We've probably been through this but is there anything you wish to tell me?' The psychologist prompted. It wasn't easy keeping everything to oneself that could easily trigger an explosive meltdown especially with her current emotional health but Lia decided to remain  clam shut. However, there was one thing that she desperately needed to get off her chest.

'I've been having these - flashbacks.'

'What kind?'

'They come without warning, in bits and pieces and unexplainable.' Throat drying up, Lia's voice was no more than a hoarse whisper. 'They seem so real - and I think they're real. But I just feel like I'm losing my grip on reality, I can't trust myself.'

Jaws clenched as the sounds of pen clicking filled the room, Layla stood up abruptly to move to her desk, rummaging through the drawers before pulling out a blue plastic file.

'I'm going to be honest with you, I believe these flashbacks you're experiencing - it's a sign that you're letting yourself remember these repressed memories again.' Taking a deep breath as if contemplating if she should continue, 'When you first came to me, you claimed that you had no memories of your kidnapping, all you remembered was a sudden blackout and the next thing was the Lieutenant at your side in the helicopter.'

The whirring sound of the blades was unmistakable, she was flying - like the birds in the sky. Her surroundings were hazy as conversation around her faded in and out. A moment of panic overcame her as she struggled to find a familiar face - freedom felt too easy after having to run forever. Warm hands wrapped her cold ones, anchoring her back to Earth. Sitting right beside her was Anna in tactical gear as she relayed orders via radio. Despite the throbbing headache that was hindering her senses, she garnered her remaining energy to lift her head a few inches from the stretcher. Both legs experienced extreme bruising with multiple cuts littered on her right shin. She tried to move other parts of her body but stopped immediately as a jolt of pain shot at her ribs. But her arms had gotten the worst of it all; marks that resembled injections clustered near her wrists with dried up blood streaked across her arms that she wasn't even sure belonged to her.

'And I stand by what I said.'

Smiling empathically the psychologist explained, 'I'm not accusing you Lia, but correct me on this assumption - your involvement in the case may have triggered a series of flashbacks and more to come. Your mind is pushing you to remember what really happened back then.'

Lia felt the tables turn as she took the role of youths at the centre who wore the persona of a  cowered animal. 'So you're saying that I shouldn't be involved.' Preparing for a verbal battle.

'No, but I'm asking you to consider to take whatever you're doing  slowly . Whatever's on your mind now is affecting you emotionally and physically. And if you're not careful, there could be serious ramifications in the near future.'

Whatever was on her mind. As of now? Her conversation with the Doctor held almost a day ago.

✽✽✽

'Pleased to meet you Miss Tay, awfully sorry about what happened to the missing kids. Is there anything I could do to help?' As the doctor closed the door behind him.

'Thank you for taking time out of your busy schedule, I'll get to it then - I understand that the hospital is recruiting youth volunteers for medical research, I was wondering if you could tell me anything about that.'

Lia swore for a good moment that she saw the Doctor froze before composing himself as he laughed, 'Now how would you know about that? I mean we had the press barely two days ago. I suppose you are concerned about the children's well-being as their worker?'

'It's my duty.'

'Well rest assured there is nothing to be concerned about. They have all agreed to participate in their own will. The director of your organization has already seen to that.'

'We have no knowledge of it and it doesn't seem like he's ready to share anytime soon.'

'Then, unfortunately, I cannot do anything. However, I can vouch on our end that we are solely pursuing science for the greater good, if necessary, feel free to check our database.' She knew the Doctor was taunting her but she was also reminded that she held no authority and this was a visit that no one should have knowledge of.

'That won't be needed but thank you for your help.'

✽✽✽

Lia strongly believed that the Doctor had involvement in the recent string of events but was the conversation left her wondering if she had just gone a full circle. However, the one thing that she, Anna and the Doctor agreed on - the Director had definitely something to hide.

'What if I want to remember, all of it?'

'Unlike popular belief, I can't make you remember everything with the snap of my fingers. It has to be from you. You don't have to embrace what happened to you back then, just accept that it happened. It won't happen immediately though, you have to give yourself time and be  patient .'

✽✽✽

Lightspring Youth Shelter,

Time: 1047 hours

Taylor's breath increased with every step he took down the hall, having to duck into empty rooms occasionally. He had the trust of his youth worker but it wasn't enough. He needed to know what happened to Theo even if there was a possibility he was dead. And if Officer Mckelken had any part to play, people needed to know. Today was one of those days as he spotted him with a mysterious man who's back was turned to Taylor as he crouched behind the wall leading to the garden patch.

'Frey has informed me that she took the bait, well done David. We move on to the next phase. Anyone else knows about the children?'

'None sir.'

Running towards the room where the landlines were located for anyone who wished to call someone, he fumbled for the wrinkled paper that Lia wrote her number down, punching against the buttons on the telephone. It was early in the morning but the silence of the area made Taylor's stomach queasy. His head drowned out all possible noises; even the nearest source of sound from the bathing area where other youths were beginning to start their day as his entire attention was directed to the rings that transmitted loudly through his ears.

'Hello this is Lia Tay, I can't pick up your call now. I'm either doing out of office work or it's my off day but I'll get back to you as soon as I can! Leave a message!'

'Miss Lia- it's Taylor. I know I told you this but - I really think Officer Mckelken had something to do with my brother's disappearance -'

Something sharp launched into the side of his neck, leaving a throbbing sensation as a large hand clamped over his mouth. He wanted to scream, to shout at his assailant, the younger children that he could see from the window playing basketball before darkness overtook his vision.

✽✽✽

Chapter 8

Sersele Centre for Youth and Young Adults,

Time: 1400 hours

Despite being only midday, coming out from what was the third straight meeting in a row with heated debates had its effects. Checking her watch Lia sighed, she was supposed to have her session with Taylor two hours ago. Not that it was unusual - she had her fair share of youths who stood her up for a countless number of sessions. But apart from Taylor warming up to her, Lia had hoped to wheedle more information from him.

Staring at her phone on the desk, she grabbed for the receiver as she made a call to the shelter before a female staff member picked up on the other end.

'Lightspring Youth Shelter.'

'Hi, I'm calling from Sersele Youth Center and I'm supposed to have a session with Taylor Jones but he's not here and he hasn't contacted about me.'

'Oh! Officer Mckelken informed me that he was accompanying Taylor to the hospital, his father just got hospitalized.'

Raising an eyebrow Lia continued, 'I see.' Before she hung up the phone, she decided to confirm her doubts, 'I don't think I've heard you before, you new here?'

'Nah, the front desk lady is on sick leave - I'm just covering.' The voice on the end chirped to Lia's annoyance. So much for getting extra manpower when they don't take their work seriously. The reason sounded real enough except for one loophole - Taylor was never in contact with his father since birth.

Getting off the phone Lia felt a surge of hot anger and disappointment at herself. Sure she definitely had her misjudgments but every fibre in her being told her that this could be something bigger that came with heavy repercussions. Grabbing her belongings, she stormed out of the centre to do what she should have done earlier.

✽✽✽

Lightspring Youth Shelter,

Time: 1455 hours

'Where is Officer Mckelken?' Lia walked up to the red-headed girl at the front desk.

'Hey weren't you the- '

'Yeah, earlier. But I'm kind of in a rush now so it'll be great if you could tell me where he is. ' Teeth clenched, it took Lia everything she had to not explode at the airhead in front of her given her current temperament.

Looking slightly stunned, the girl pointed to the direction of the gymnasium. 'That's the last where I saw him going to.'

With a curt thanks, Lia stalled off in the direction of the gym where she found the officer facilitating a dodgeball class. Scanning the familiar gymnasium, she decided to take a seat at the bleachers without drawing too much attention to herself as she waited for the session to end.

As much as she was starting to have her reservations against the man but she understood why Taylor looked up to the man. The youths seemed to be entranced by every word he said and had their whole attention affixed on him.

'Great energy out there today! Remember to do the same for your studies!' Officer Mckelken chuckled at his own joke to a mixture of giggles that was mostly from the girls and groans as they started to stream out of the gymnasium to their next activity. Spotting Lia on the bench, he grabbed his towel and chugged down water walking towards her.

'What did I do to owe the visit?' He flashed a charming smile. Not getting distracted Lia shot, 'I was just looking for Taylor, he didn't come for his session. Would you know where he is?'

'No, I was here the whole time before you came.' His refusal to budge spurred Lia on to pursue her incoming barrage of questions further. 'That's funny the girl at the desk told me she last saw you with him.' Feigning ignorance.

'That was sometime back, he could have went anywhere within that time.' Another dead end. Maybe it was time to bring out the lethal question. 'I was speaking to Taylor a few days ago and he - expressed his concerns about you. He told me that you know something about the missing kids?'

Bingo. Pausing at the exit, the man turned around with what Lia saw as a cocky smile. 'Did he now, did he badmouth you to me, told you that I knew where that lowlife of his brother is? I knew he was desperate but I didn't know he would go to such lengths, the little brat.'

That was the last straw that broke her patience. Grabbing the collar of his shirt she snarled while keeping eye contact, 'Well count him lucky that he had someone who believed him and saw through you. Tell me what you've done with him!'

Emitting a mirthless laugh the officer replied, 'Such accusatory allegations, you seem desperate to Miss Tay, you went through a similar experience?'

'I'll make sure that no one knows about this from my end.'

'You bastard!' Landing an uppercut on his jaw, the well-built officer stumbled back by a few feet leaving him momentarily dazed. Triggering a set of reactions, Lia landed a few more well-aimed punches.

Blood was caked all over hands with the smell of iron pervading her nose, the stinging sensation as she ran her tongue across her lips gave told her that her skin had dried and peeled off. The lights nearly blinded her but it wasn't enough to get rid of the confusion and rage in her.

'Lia stop!' A voice thundered through the empty gym. Anna and Jaylah stood together side by side with the latter donning a look of horror. A wet and sticky sensation trickled down the side of Lia to only find blood covering her already bruised knuckles and the bemused man sprawled across the maple hardwood. Arms limply falling to the side, she stepped aside allowing Jaylah to check on Officer Mckelken.

'Lia, what happened?'

'Taylor's gone, he had something to do with it!' She held a finger towards the half-conscious officer.

'Lia hear yourself right now! We talked about stepping over the line! This is it!' Anna tried to reason with her. 'You know you actually managed to persuade me to let you be involved in the case, to get justice for yourself. Looks like it wasn't a good call.' She finished her last sentence with a heavy heart.

'You have to believe me, you weren't here to see the look he gave me! Everything that he's showing you now is a front!' Panic overtook her, desperate for the women to believe her not as her oldest friend but as an enforcer of law.

'And you need to know - I never doubted you for a second since we got you out from that rathole of a place! But you're letting your heart take over.' Deliberating for a moment Anna I'm sorry - I'm officially taking you out of the case as a special witness until we make further progress.'

This couldn't be happening, Lia wanted to protest but at the sight of a group of young kids peeking through the doors to observe the ruckus going inside the gym - in particular, a little girl looking furtively at her coated hands was enough to intimidate her - did she then mellow down.

'Great, Chief Tyson's on the line. I don't know how he got wind of this but please don't do anything rash alright. This is really getting out of hand.' Anna muttered as she walked out of the gymnasium to receive the call leaving Lia standing alone in the middle like a lost child.

Jaylah came over gently.  'How is he?'

'Nothing too serious, he'll live, you really gave him a good one there.' Jaylah attempted to lighten the mood. It was with Jaylah's entrance did Lia realised that she was most likely going to receive disciplinary action from the centre.

'Don't worry about me, I'll be fine. You should head back to the centre.` Feeling like she was being scrutinized by her colleague Lia promoted her before she made a move not before trying her last reassurance. 'Don't worry about those nosy colleagues, I got your back.' as she was gone behind the doors.

✽✽✽

Chapter 9

Youth Shelter Association

Time: 1018 hours

Despite the repercussions coming at Lia like a snowball, she had expected no less. Not long after she had gotten the news that Officer Mckelken was recovering from his injuries, a regretful Jaylah had called to inform her about her suspension meted out by the head of the centre who was apparently livid about the course of events (especially the unauthorised visit) and demanded Lia to make a personal trip to the Association to explain herself in front of the Director. Of course, she had other ideas on her agenda; if the Director truly had no involvement - Lia was more than willing to drop her case on her top three suspects.

Anna had made a valid point yesterday, Lia had displayed a shocking temper - something that she would never imagine came out of her. Now temporarily free of her boundaries, Lia was determined to see the long-awaited progress. But she was well aware that she could no longer possess her rash headed personality and had to be smart around the situation. And that's how she found herself having to endure a stream of apologies coming out from her own mouth in the Director's office.

'You understand when word gets out, our public approval is going to drop? A youth worker attacking an innocent officer?' Lia had every urge to give the man sitting behind the desk a backhanded slap. The Director was talking about the situation as if he was running for office.

'I do and I reiterate my point, I will take full responsibility for any disciplinary action held against me.'

Lia couldn't believe this was the same man that Anna was telling her about a few days ago. The demure Director who nearly crumbled under Anna's authoritarian presence was the very same man who took every opportunity in reprimanding Lia.

'I hope you can make good use of your suspension to reflect on yourself, Lia. You are one of our most decorated staff, I would hate to lose you.'

With a knock on the other end, a petite woman styled in a beige blouse and pencil skirt poked her head inside. 'Mr Yeo the donor has arrived, shall I put him at the waiting room?' While taking a glance at Lia.

'No no, I was just wrapping up here. I'll be there in three.' Signalling her out of his office. Door closing the Director turned to Lia, 'I won't be seeing you out then and I hope you remembered what I said.' Before leaving Lia alone.

Once she had made sure that there was no passer-by outside Director Yeo's office, Lia stealthily made her way to the laptop, plugging in the mini red thumb drive. It was easier than expected as he had left the room in a rush, the challenge though was navigating through the countless files that were scattered across the desktop. Quickly copying the files of the details of collaboration with the hospital and the personal data of the youths, she quickly ejected the device ensuring that she left no trace of virtual or physical evidence before leaving the place.

✽✽✽

Chapter 10

Unknown Location,

Time: 1500 hours

Eyes slowly adjusting to the unfamiliar environment, Taylor moaned in pain while struggling to get himself upright finding himself locked in a padded cell.

'You new here?' An older girl with a ponytail was lounging in the cell next to his. 'Where are we?'

'That is a good question that I've been asking myself for months.'

'Months?' The look on Taylor's face must have been amusing to the girl as she chuckled. 'Yeah, newbie  months.  When they got me, everything was stripped off me - including my watch. I've been underground for so long, I can't tell if it's day or night.'

Suddenly laced with fear that his captor would enter anytime soon but desperate to find out more from the girl, Taylor continued in the speed of light. 'How did you get captured, why are they doing this, who-'

'Woah easy there speedy. Look, we don't have much time for me to answer all your questions - it's about time their coming and they hate us talking, especially their boss. So I'll start with the basics. My name is Artemis and I used to be from one of the youth shelters in the Eastside.'

Before he could question Artemis about the odd introduction of her residence, the metallic doors flung open as three men walked inside, the front of the pack faster than the others, ignoring the whimpers of the younger children that Taylor had now just noticed. Perhaps was Theo being held captive here?

'You bloody fool! I had everything under control! There was no need to capture the boy and trigger these set of events! Now we will never be able to take her by surprise! She'll definitely have her guard against us! She is already suspecting me!' The man in the white coat bellowed, looking like he belonged with the highly volatile chemicals in the laboratory.

'You wanted progress, why are you so angry now? We've still got the upper hand - she'll surely come to save the boy, given her impulsiveness.' Taylor gasped softly as the second man stepped into the light. Officer Mckelken. Taylor had a gut feeling but never in his dreams would he expect his suspicions to materialize in such a horrific manner.

'David is right, the boy can be leveraged against her. No more waiting, we attack now.' The last man was hidden in the darkness as if unwilling to step into the light. 'Prepare the boy for serum testing and send it to the girl, that'll be enough to get her down here.'

Moving towards Taylor, he found himself violently yanked out by the shoulder by the Officer as he noticed Artemis' hardened look. Whatever they must have done to the captives, she must have seen the worst of it. Throwing him into the reclining chair, he was strapped by his limbs. From the corner of his eyes, he could see the thin frame of the Doctor guy preparing a syringe. Walking towards him with the syringe filled with the unknown and possibly deadly substance as if foreshadowing Taylor's fate in the next few minutes.

'Don't be scared son, this will be painless and over soon.' Voice muffled, Taylor fought to clamp his fear as the Doctor managed to send chills down his spine. Taylor was barely shaken by others - it came from the responsibility of having to protect his younger brother from jerks at the shelter and previously, his father who would take out his anger on both of them in a drunken state. No amount of counselling could erase the memory of him arriving home to find his comatose father with multiple needles haphazardly scattered around the floor with perhaps one lodged into his arm. He swore that he would never resort to numbing his pain, no matter how shit his current life was. Only now, it wasn't a choice.

The effect was electrifying the moment the needle came into contact with his skin. 'What you've just felt is the virus, we'll give it 24 hours to observe how well, or how badly your genetic structure has reacted to the virus. But I'm not that heartless. Let me just- '

He felt a prickling sensation as another shot was delivered to this neck. So this is how his father felt like after one of his drug overdose. High and carefree. As his eyelids drew to a close, he heard a fading voice.

'Resistance is futile.'

✽✽✽

Sersele, Innis Street

Time: 1900 hours

People were starting to stream back home, to kick back and relax from the stressors that the day provided. Lia was an exception as her laptop powered through for nearly six hours straight, not leaving her comfy sofa except to get something from the fridge or to make a needed trip to the toilet.

Besides the laptop was a piece of paper scribbled with the most inner thoughts of her mind filled with inferences and assumptions. Anna was right - all identifiable missing kids that Lia had cross-referenced with the existing files that the association kept were indeed former or current residents of different youth shelters across Sersele. Narrowing her search to the unfortunate victims that the police had found, she had started to draw a shocking connection - all of them had past records of offending.

'Multiple of them had specific illness that required treatment.'

It was impossible. Which psychopath would kidnap vulnerable young children off the street for their own sick pleasures? Besides Taylor and her were an exception - with her best memory, Taylor was placed in the shelter as the brothers had no significant adult looking after them, he never committed any crimes - petty ones even.

'Theo met the guy working for them outside the centre.'

Mind swirling with what she had acquired over the past few days, Lia started to connect the dots. Was the guy that approached Theo Doctor Malcolm Frey? And if the kids were targeted, he had insider information which made her automatically think about Taylor's unwavering suspicions about Officer Mckelken. Could the two men been in cahoots all this while? But the one thing her mind could not comprehend was how they managed to evade getting caught leaking personal data - and what Lia feared for a very long time. There had to be someone else up in the ranks who wasn't afraid of backlash, who had power involved as well. What did they have in mind, what was their endgame that they had to go to such extreme lengths to terrorize the community?

Perhaps she the answer was closer to her than she thought. Feeling hopeful, she dialled the familiar number on her phone.

'It's me, I need your help.'

✽✽✽

Chapter 11

An apprehensive but determined Jaylah sat on the chair across Lia. 'I'm not supposed to do this, but knock yourself out and fire away.'

With a deep breath, Lia began. 'I can barely remember anything since I came back. And I've been in the haze for too long. So I hope you can tell me what led to my disappearance.'

'Why didn't you just call Anna instead?' It was a legitimate question - with the investigation and the recent spade of unfortunate (and avoidable) events that happened, the strain showing in Anna was evident - and Lia felt responsible for that.

'You were my closest colleague and I figured my disappearance may have something to do with what I was doing then. Anna doesn't know any of that.'

Leaning back while staring into the lights that gave out a soft orange glow, Jaylah let out a heavy sigh before looking Lia seriously in the eye. 'Back then, the missing youths made huge headlines - two of them were from our centre. There was a lot of pressure on the police and us to solve this monstrosity. So you being the rookie back then and one of their caseworkers took matters into your own hands.' Pausing for a drink she observed Lia's anticipation.

'But who knew you actually made progress. Despite your results having evidence that there was a possibility of a human trafficking ring - with no explanation of where the money we got from our  beneficiaries , the Association had dismissed your claims - said that they were baseless and no such thing would happen in a safe country like Sersele. So you followed your own instincts and better judgement. None of us at the centre heard from you for a while, until the police found you in the graveyard - you couldn't remember anything then. None of us were to speak of it. But if you ask me, you got too close and got caught in the crossfire.''

The amount of revelation was a lot for Lia to take in. She always had a sense of duty to help the forgotten on the ground, to give them back their voices. Never did it occur that her goodwill would lead her to something ugly. She always had been in the 'crossfire' in their line of work, the middle-man between the youths and social services, but this time she may have been playing with fire that was too big for her to handle.

'I don't get it, if you knew all of this, why didn't you tell me? Why didn't anyone tell me earlier?' Confusion evident in Lia.

'Trust me, we wanted to. Anna was strongly for it - she accompanied you to Layla's office hoping that you could remember. But your mind shut it all out. Thing is, the acceptance had to come from  you , we eventually figured that when you were ready, you would seek for it yourself. It never occurred to me how the situation would unfold out. I'm sorry if you think we kept it from you.'

The nightmares, the unexplainable bouts of flashbacks, her erratic behaviour - all had finally come together. Lia just had one more burning question. 'Did you know who was the one that rejected my evidence?'

'You kidding me? I could never forget his face. He's the current Director, Jonah Yeo.'

✽✽✽

Unknown Location,

Time: 1110 hours

Finding himself back in the padded cell, he crawled towards the wall to push himself up, head throbbing as if he had just battled a splitting headache.

'How are you? Feeling nauseous or giddy?' Finding a concerned Artemis staring at him.

'I'm - ugh, felt like I've been hit by a car but I had worse. I'll be fine.' Taylor groaned. 'What did that maniac do to me?'

Staring around furtively before ensuring the coast was clear, she began in a hushed voice. 'I don't know the fine lines, but I know enough. Apparently they're creating some sort of super-soldier program. They've been testing out the serum on kids and youths like us but I've seen the two sides.'

'Two sides?'

'Yeah, the serum isn't guaranteed to work. I overheard the Doctor once. If your genetic structure is compatible, you survive the 'one-day madness' to adjust to the serum - you don't have a mind of your own. People screaming and crying, hell I've even seen some almost on the verge of becoming catatonic.'

'And if it isn't compatible?'

'You die.' Artemis said it casually as if it was a normal occurrence. 'The Doctor drains the blood out of them and tosses them into the sea, he doesn't care if the police find the body, as long as there isn't any traces of the tested blood, he's safe.'

Knowing that time was precious Taylor urged, 'Do you know what's the purpose of all this? I mean they can't be building an army here.'

'Nope, but they definitely have something big. I think the Doctor mentioned a syndicate, the trafficking business is very lucrative. ' Allowing silence to pass over them for a few seconds, Taylor asked the question that was bugging him most since he woke up. 'Did you by any chance, see what I did? I didn't do anything terrible I hope.'

'Don't worry, you were one of the better ones, broke out in a cold sweat, mumbling a fair bit but your heart nearly stopped while adapting to the serum.' Artemis tried to reassure him as she saw the whites of his eyes.

'What about you?' Taylor felt more confident.

'It worked,' she paused bitterly before finishing. 'I couldn't control myself when they first injected me, they made me kill a kid five years younger than me.'

'You see, for the Doctor to check if is serum is really working, he pits us against each other. Those who were tested positive and those who were negative.'

'I thought you said-'

'That they did, I didn't say they die immediately after the injection. When you're trapped in this hell-hole of a place, you die either way. I'm just waiting for my time to come.' Taylor wanted to reach out to her just like she did - to tell her that she wouldn't have done the unspeakable on her own will. But the girl looked too gutted to care. Unfortunately, the time was cut short with the foreboding sound of the door opening.

The gate to Taylor's cell was unlocked as Officer Mckelken picked him up by his collar, dragging him out again. 'What the hell do you think you're doing asshole?' He growled as he attempted to wrestle himself out of the man's strong grasp.

'The Doctor has requested for you. He wishes to see your - progress, and I'm sure you'll enjoy this moment too.' The Officer gave a menacing snarl, a far cry to the man that Taylor looked up to all these years. 'You couldn't stay away, could you. You could have just lived your life normally but you decided to be the bratty kid, sticking your nose into adults' business.' Another door slid open as if informed of their arrival revealing a containment cell.

'Excellent, you have reacted well my boy. They will be pleased.' Taylor spat in his face. Taking a moment to recover, the Doctor was oddly composed. 'You are a feisty young man. I'm sure you'll prove yourself as an excellent soldier to the syndicate. However, you still can't outshine your -  mentor .' Taylor remained silent.

'No matter, we'll bring her here soon enough. Which is why you will be playing the most important part!' The next few moments felt unreal as he saw an ashen-faced boy that was covered by his floppy brown hair tossed into the containment cell. Theo. Momentarily glorious relief swept over him as he wanted to run over but held himself back. His joy was instantaneously replaced by fear as he noticed that Theo wasn't wearing a collar like him.

As if reading Taylor's mind, the Doctor explained. 'Unlike you, your brother sadly was tested negative. To see how well exactly the serum has worked, you are going to fight him by  any means necessary.'  His heart tightened. Taylor always served as the protector, it was out of the question that he would have to fight his own brother one day who was currently begging him with his eyes and looked on the verge of collapsing.

'You're insane, I won't do it.'

'Did I say you have a choice? You will do it or both of you will die.' Collar tightening around Taylor's neck, he roared out as he felt a stab in his neck.

'Don't worry about your little brother, you won't even remember if you kill him.'

✽✽✽

Chapter 12

Sersele, Innis Street

Time: 1300 hours

The sun was blazing hot, but it was just what Lia needed to clear her mind in a 5-mile run. Walking to the entrance of her house, she found a white package with her initials stamped on it. Curious she picked it up, entering the house eager for shade.

Unwrapping the box at the countertop, she was surprised to see a black iPad along with a concealed  note . Switching on the device, she took a swig of water, waiting for the content to play.

The view was filmed at an awkward angle but Lia instantly recognized Taylor's lean frame facing a younger boy who had a striking resemblance to Taylor. She noticed that Taylor was crouching down at certain points, as if trying to stop himself from moving further. Doctor Frey stepped in front of the camera.

'Enjoying the show? It won't last for long. I think you know what I want. I'm giving you a chance to save the boy. All you have to do is give yourself up.' Loud snarls accompanied the sound of fabric ripping and shrill screams in the background that did not perturb the Doctor one bit.

'Your choice. But I can't guarantee what will happen next.' Maniacal laughter filled through the empty house. 'You should be familiar with the place, I won't bother meeting you.' Before the screen went dark.

One didn't need to be a genius to identify Officer Mckelken's face from afar in the video especially when Lia was the one who gave him the bruises. The background certainly looked foreign with medical instruments - Lia considered for a moment if the hospital was the place Doctor Frey was referring to but brushed it away as quickly. A place that she was familiar with. The graveyard.

Then the wildest thought came across her mind. Could it really be that she was so close but yet so far all this while? Activating the google map application on her laptop, she entered the address of her former workplace with the absolute need to make sure. True enough, the nearest graveyard was three miles away - Right beside it was the  satellite image of an abandoned factory. Unlike previously, Lia was hesitant. She told herself that she would not jump into the unknown head-first. She wasn't even sure if the Doctor was playing with her emotions, or if she had the right place to begin with.

'Taylor needs me. I can't just sit back and do nothing while he's under the captivity of a psychopathic doctor.'  Deep down Lia knew the terror - being all alone in the fight for survival. But this time she wasn't going to make the same mistakes. Lia was well aware that she could be going up against more than one. She needed a plan, and she needed it fast.

✽✽✽

Chapter 13

Five years ago,

Somewhere in West Sersele,

Time: 1815  hours

Lia walked towards the rundown factory that used to produce children's toys. The possible accidental coincidence had sent chills into her body with every step closer. But she had to do this, she had to prove that the Director had some part in this intricate plot - he wasn't even concerned with the missing children when news had hit Sersele and went as far to dismiss her claims that she painstakingly produced as baseless.

The combined smell of dust and wood that was peeling off the walls made her nose wrinkle as she pushed the large doors with all her might. Finding herself plunged into semi-darkness, the brief glimpse of unwanted dolls sitting at the edge of the shelves did not help to calm her nerves one bit. Nevertheless, she braved on, with the goal of finding at least a single evidence.

Fingers ghosting across the walls, a section of it parted ways to reveal another passageway. Without deliberation, Lia took a step in and thought for a moment she landed in another dimension.

Dozens of pods were lined up in both directions, each connecting to a set of wires. Moving closer, she was horrified to see the occupants wired up to tubes that were draining blood out of them. It was cruel, it was callous, it was sadistic. How she wished she could have wiped it out of her memory instantly.

Spotting what she assumed was the cabinet with files piled up neatly, she carefully sieved through the stack before taking out one that had the words, 'Project T.O.Y.A.R'.

Eyes quickly scanning through the fine details, Lia could not believe what she had just seen. Youths from shelters all across the country being snatched off the streets in the guise that they were involved in a good cause for the hospital, the belief that they could finally contribute to society only to be manipulated, tortured and exploited.

From the description, it looked like they were developing the perfect super soldier and bid the youths to the highest bidder on the black market. Syndicates, drug cartels, gangs - the whole page in Lia's hand just screamed blood. But there was no way the Director could have pulled this stunt of a large scale by himself. He had to have someone supporting him, someone who had the ability and the guts without getting caught. But who?

A loud clunk was heard further down the mysterious room. Every nerve in her body told her not to continue, to get out with the evidence and far away from the place. But greed overtook her as she was desperate to find more.

Youths were held in different cells - some that were slowly succumbing to a feral state, some barely surviving. Her heart ached at the sight of them who looked like they lost grip on humanity.

Most except for a young Asian girl who came to the window of her cell, the whites of her eyes largened, mouth shaping into soundless words as Lia tried her best to decipher it.

'Look - out - behind - you!'

Lia felt a prick on her neck before her vision went dark.

✽✽✽

Awaking from a long slumber, Lia found herself strapped to a table with duct tape slapped over her mouth. Just as she suspected all this while, the Doctor and the Director stood in front with their backs faced, arguing on what to do with her next. Slowly regaining full consciousness, the excruciating pain that she felt in her arm increased.

'We must kill her if we let her free she will run her mouth to the authorities.'

'No. I have a better use for her Jonah. I have already tested her genetic structure, it is by far the most compatible and exceptional. We will test her and if all works well, we extract her genetic structure for future soldiers and I suppose the Syndicate won't mind an older soldier.'

Without warning, the Doctor activated the lever that made her whole body felt like it was torched on fire. She wanted to scream to relieve the pain of what was thought to be a dozen arrows piercing through her body but she wasn't going to give the two the satisfaction that they were forcing out from her.

✽✽✽

After losing count of the number of days that she was held, she found herself thrown into a large containment cell unceremoniously. Collar wrapped around her neck, she glanced around wildly for her captors.

'Don't bother, you won't be able to recognize us even if this works.' A hoarse but familiar voice that didn't belong to the Doctor or Director rang through the cell before another unknown substance entered through her bloodstream via the device.

'The venom is the last stage of the test. What your experiencing is the venom taking over your conscious mind and enhances your altered genetic structure giving you abilities that not even a normal human being can dream of.'

Doors opening again to reveal a girl who looked no more than 16 with a similar collar. 'We would usually test with one negative result but I have a good feeling about this boss.' Jonah assured.

Behind the one-way mirror stood the boss as his grey eyes were fixated on the two subjects as they struggled to fight against their feral state from emerging to little success.

'Let the fight begin.'

Circling each other furtively like predators waiting to pounce on their vulnerable prey, the girl decided to make the first move. Although she was much younger but she was evenly matched in size. With lightning-quick reflexes that Lia didn't know she had, her outstretched hand gripped the girl's throat and ran her into the wall. Lia wanted to let go seeing as she saw the face in front of her turning progressively blue by the second but her mind wasn't cooperating. In fact, she was enjoying the current situation where she held the role of the dictator and her opponent was at her mercy.

Miraculously, the girl wrestled out of Lia's grip as she kneed Lia in the shins before clawing her on her left cheek leaving a dangerous red mark. But Lia proved to be too fast for the girl as she body-slammed the latter onto the ground before landing a lethal blow at her neck.

Before she could digest the violence that she was a part of, Lia was strapped yet again and left in the dark as her captors left - thrilled about the progress and breakthrough they accomplished. A  floodgate of tears streamed down her face as reality hit her. All this while she devoted her life to protecting the vulnerable, only for her to take part in an unforgivable and heinous crime. Her hands were scrubbed clean but she could never unsee the blood that stained her physically and mentally.

She was sure that they were to return soon. She had to escape. She couldn't let them get what they wanted. Most importantly, she had to let the world know about the real identity of the Director and the others who assisted in gruesome acts.

'You were the most compatible.'

Shutting her eyes at the thought his voice, she took a deep breath before breaking free of the iron that held her limbs together. Checking that the coast was clear, she cautiously went down the unfamiliar hallway before breaking into a run.

The true fight for survival had only just begun.

✽✽✽

Chapter 14

Three miles from Sersele Centre for Youth and Young Adults,

Time: 1847  hours

Exiting the cab, Lia tossed on her jacket for security and warmth as she proceeded in the direction of the factory. No one in their right mind would come here alone for a stroll. As she neared the factory, a rat had run out from the nearby bushes causing her to jump in fright.

Perhaps it was a good thing that Lia had an unclear memory of this place for the factory gave creepy vibes with the added backdrop of the sky that was void of stars.

Stepping into the factory, her breathing seemed to be magnified by the silence. Trudging down the dimly lit path to the back door, Lia mustered all of her courage as she stood in darkness.

'Doctor Frey! I'm here, you have me. Let the kids go.' Raising her hands-on surrender. No answer. 'Officer Mckelken, I know your listening.' Still no answer. Frustration was boiling inside her. Was she wrong?

'You sick bastards! Come out and fight if you want me! Or are you too scared to fight a girl who can kick your ass hands down!' She yelled.

'On the contrary, we like to deal directly Lia.' Light switching on, to her horror she found herself face to face with the Officer who had the collar around his neck.

'I was thinking to give our dear Officer a chance here to get  revenge. He never really got over the humiliation.'

Despite her heart racing, Lia refused to let fear show.  'How about you come and face me yourself!' As she kept an eye on the Officer that was inching closer to her, waiting to devour her whole. The scene felt all too familiar, except she was no longer a scared captive running from her monsters.

Attention now fully focused on the larger male, she went into a fighting stance, preparing for the attack. Blocking blow after blow, he picked Lia up and threw her across the room into an old cabinet like a rag doll. Spotting a whip lying limply among the splinters of the broken cabinet, she lunged for it and coiled it around his ankles before pulling it hard.

Getting up with extreme agility, Officer Mckelken attacked her from behind, twisting her right arm forcefully, eliciting a loud snap. Panting from the rigorous combat, Lia retreated to realize the unfocused pair of eyes staring right back at her before collapsing to the ground.

'What have you done to him!'

'Simple, he's doing my bidding now. Just like how you, the boy and rest were. Although you may just win - I'm not sure how long his heart can take the acceleration of the serum. You see, he's not you.' Her mind was temporarily distracted as she feared the worst for Taylor and despite her hate towards him, Officer Mckelken.

'Please stop the fight, please! He's not going to make it through!' Lia cried.

'You were always too considerate, too kind. Even back then, you hesitated in killing the girl. I was the one to push you to finish the job.'

'Kill her now!'

Lia no longer had tears to shed. Instead, it was replaced with fury. She didn't need anyone else dying at her hands, even if they fought for the wrong cause. 'I give up, just stop this madness! Take whatever you need from me.'

As if by her command, the man had stopped convulsing on the floor. Another door ahead slid open with more lights turned on, creating a pathway for Lia as she cradled her injured arm, taking tiny steps forward.

'Finally, I no longer have to put up the facade any longer. Glad to truly meet you  again. ' Doctor Malcolm Frey stood behind the door to welcome a reluctant Lia. 'Where's Taylor? Where's the rest of them you sick beast.'

Chuckling, the doctor humoured her. 'Why so impatient? We'll have plenty of time to be with each other,' as he yanked her injured arm towards him causing Lia to wince. 'Oh my, I'm terribly sorry about earlier, David was never one to be a gentleman. After all, you defeated him twice.' Brandishing a syringe that sported a deadly looking needle, he plunged it into her upper arm mercilessly.

The sight of her blood being extracted wasn't the best view but Lia was determined. 'I thought you and Mckelken were best buds, what happened?' She attempted a distraction.

'He was indeed worthy to our cause but his recent blunders and his recklessness posed as a risk. We had to eliminate him somehow.'

'Just like how those children were 'eliminated' too when they weren't worthy, you drained their blood out and dump them in the sea. You all were supposed to fight the good fight, to help these vulnerable kids get back into society when no one believed in them! They trusted you all! And what did you do? Your 'team' exploited them for monetary benefits?'

'I can't deny that. After all, like what you said, no one cared about them. Not now, not ever. Kids who committed dirty crimes... I could have fixed them!' Doctor Frey turned around with a crazed glint in his eyes.

'You're mad... beyond hope.' She glared at him. Machine beeping to indicate the end of the extraction process, the tube was ripped out as Lia was forced off the table. 'I don't think you have the guts, money or power to pull this off. Definitely not  Mckelken and it's too risky for the Director to invest the money from a cause that fought yours. Who is it Frey, who's really the big gun running the show?'

A hoarse voice rang behind them, 'That my dear, would be me.'

✽✽✽

Chapter 15

'Chief Tyson.' Lia breathed out as the man stood beside the Director.

'That's right, I funded it. I figured there was too much scum on the streets. Instead of getting rid of them, why not utilize them. After all, they never had a chance to be useful.' Lia growled at the Chief who was taking pride in his involvement.

'But you had to come long five years ago, an eager rookie, wanting to be involved in the greater good. You just had to stick your nose in affairs that you weren't meant to stick in. Who knew we found a great use for you - your genetic structure proved to be the most compatible with the venom, the last ingredient we needed for Project T.O.Y.A.R. We would have used your structure for the other soldiers. Unfortunately, a misfortunate hindsight on our Officer's end let you escape.'

'We thought you were gone but who knew you still had the guts to appear right in front of us. Not that you remembered, or  chose  not to remember. We could have grabbed you easily, but I prefer you come to me.' Chief Tyson exhaled deeply.

The persuasion to join the protection program, the investigation, the incident at the shelter. It all made sense now. 'You were setting me up long before. You had eyes all over the place. When Taylor came to me, it triggered off the set of events. You knew I would have gone to the Lieutenant to make my case.' Lia's voice went dry.

'Indeed. Fast deduction Lia, you would have been a promising Detective. But you're just so predictable.' The Chief mocked as they neared a holding cell. No way was she going to be trapped in that dungeon again. Gate creaking open, he taunted, 'Any last words?'

'Just one. Did you really think I came here alone?' Before a loud bang was heard outside.

✽✽✽

Four hours ago,

'You can't be serious, you can't go in there alone!' Anna attempted to knock some sense into her friend.

'And I'm not, your acting as backup with your entire squad. But I can't risk them seeing you. The moment they do, they'll call it off and I'm not surprised if they'll bomb the whole place. We don't know how many of them are in there and we're not going to jeopardize a single innocent life until we get that son of a bitch. ' Lia's decision was final.

'What about your suspicions of the Chief? I'm pretty sure a jolted memory isn't going to serve as hard evidence in the court.'

'I know.'

✽✽✽

'Come with me now!' The Chief barked at the Director leaving Lia with the unpredictable Doctor. For the first time in a while, the Doctor appeared frantic when he realised the two were gone for an abnormally long time.

'What's the matter, afraid?'

'Shut up!' He snarled, pacing back and forth. This was the perfect chance to catch him completely off guard. Breaking free of her cuffs, she threw a direct hit at his nose before he could react leaving him stunned for a moment as blood trickled down, staining his white coat.

'You little -' The Doctor crashed into a cart of medical instruments with Lia landing a foot on his stomach. Marching over to the spilt contents where the Doctor laid, Lia picked up a needle and knelt down, aiming the sharp object at his throat.

'Do it,' He eyed the needle. 'It's always what you wanted, revenge.' Staring into his hazel eyes that lacked humanity, she dropped the needle before snapping it in two. Just then, Anna walked and a fellow police officer trudged in with the Chief and Director in tow donning handcuffs.

Tossing Lia a pair of handcuffs for Lia, she slapped it on his wrists with satisfaction. 'It was never about revenge. Besides, I'm embracing what you gave me.' Referring to her abilities. Picking him up she passed him to another officer who was leading a couple of youths who looked filthy from the forced confinement.

'Taylor! How is he? Is he alright?' Lia was anxious about the boy.

'He's fine, they found him with his brother. That video you saw? The venom didn't progress to the lethal stage - not enough to kill him. Seemed like the kid managed to hold on for his brother.' Observing the wrinkle in Lia's forehead Anna reassured, 'Our team would be sending him and the rest of them to the hospital.'

Walking back outside to greet the wind hitting her cheeks, Lia realised that she was truly free from her chains as a shaky breath escaped her lips. 'You did good today.' Anna stood beside her as they watched the bright lights of the ambulances lighting the area. 'And I'm sorry too,' upon Lia's quizzical look, Anna explained, 'for not trusting you.'

'Don't be, I wouldn't have believed it myself too. These men are not just vicious, they're manipulative and cunning. They paint themselves as the samaritans to only exploit the defenceless. No one would have seen anyone of them coming.' Knowing that her friend was devastated over the Chief's true intentions - Anna felt dirty that she had a part to play in helping them to achieve their goal of capturing Lia.

'I did exactly what they wanted me to do! We almost fell out because I thought you went out of line in something that I shouldn't even  have asked you to join in the beginning.'

'You did what you had to do, don't blame yourself.' Lia replied sincerely.

Upon the silence between the two friends, in an attempt to lighten the mood, Lia slung her non-injured arm over Anna's shoulder.  'I don't mind if you continuing your brooding but my arm does really need medical attention.' Eliciting a snort from her friend as they walked to the waiting police van.

✽✽✽

Chapter 16

Four weeks later,

Magistrate Court, Northside

Time: 1230  hours

The weeks that followed up after the incident went by in a blur. Somehow the press had gotten wind of what they labelled as the 'biggest raid in the country'. Front pages of the morning newspaper were mostly splashed with the disgraced trio photos. As for the young Officer, despite him acting under their orders, he was slapped with a two and a half year sentence in abetting in the kidnapping of youths across the country. The rest were also stripped off their positions dishonourably with the Youth Shelter Association imposing a permanent ban on Jonah Yeo in coming back to the sector and given varying sentences based on the severity and involvement of the crimes.

However, it was without a doubt Malcolm Frey was the worst of the lot - as he was faced with a double whammy of murder and suspected human trafficking. But there was little sympathy in Lia, as she exited the courthouse, just having finished her statement as she saw Jaylah, Taylor and Anna at the entrance.

'Hey, you lot!' Lia stretched her right arm that progressively healed in the past four weeks. 'Lia! How was it?' Jaylah was the first to approach, beaming. 'It went pretty well actually, once we submitted the recording, it was pretty much a case close. All thanks to Anna actually, it was her idea for me to wear the in-ears to record the conversation.' Lia gave the due credit to her friend.

'What about the youths?' Taylor interrupted.

'The Association had decided to dedicate a centre where youth workers and counsellors will be holding the fort to address the after-effects for the youths who went through this traumatic experience.'

'And you're not in charge?'

Giving a wry smile, Lia replied. 'I went through a lot myself, I don't think I'm in any position to help them. However, you will be seeing Jaylah a bit more often now seeing that she's there too.'

'But you know you're still welcome back if you ever change your mind. You're no longer on indefinite suspension.' Jaylah chimed in.

'I know, but I think I'll be taking a break. Besides, I always wanted one ever since I started.' To raucous laughter as they proceeded down the steps.

'Lia I think you may want to know about this.' Anna held her back as the two trailed further from them. 'Our team raided Tyson's residence and office and found evidence of him communicating to an unknown party approximately 4000 miles away. We have reason to believe that this may be the syndicate that you were telling us about.'

Lia took her time to take in the unexpected information. 'Any leads?'

'No but-'

'Then we celebrate what we accomplished today and worry later.' Lia replied in earnest. The world was cruel in a way - there would always be people with bad intentions but as long as there was one soul wh o was willing to fight the good fight, she believed that good would always triumph over evil.

✽✽✽

Chapter 17

Two days later

Three miles from Sersele Centre for Youth and Young Adults,

Time: 0800  hours

Lia stood in front of the factory that was now cordoned off with yellow tape. In her hand, held one of the many collars that the police had extracted from the factory together with a couple of matchsticks. Placing the device on the dirt road, she lit the matches before throwing it down, watching the flames engulf it.

Lia was prepared to break down again into full-blown sobs but never did she expect to shout in joy. She always believed that the pain she tolerated for five years would disappear if she left it alone but how wrong she was. It was never easy coming to terms that she would have to look at 'it' straight it in the eye, to prove that she was never deterred, never defeated. That her vulnerability could turn into a strength of a lion.

Although a tiny part of her wished she would have acted earlier.

'We celebrate today.'

She couldn't save everyone but she did her best. Despite no longer being Taylor's youth worker, she was happy to see through the frequent updates from Jaylah at the crisis centre that the two brothers were doing well. Most importantly, Project T.O.Y.A.R was no more.

' We worry about tomorrow.'

Lia enjoyed the temporary period of peace, turning down another offer to rejoin the centre. But she knew more was coming. More children being put in the crossfire of a bigger war against their wills. The syndicate was still out there and she wasn't willing to sit by, letting them wreak havoc and have their way.

Fishing a rose from her bag that she bought on her way here, she placed it beside the diminishing flame before leaving the factory, not sparing a single glance.

'Today, we rejoice.'

✽✽✽

Epilogue

4,000 miles away from Sersele,

Time: 2015  hours

A heavyset man wearing an expensive Armani that was accompanied with a gold watch suit sat in a leather chair, massaging his temple as a runner came over to him, head bowed.

'We've lost the shipment and contact with Mr Tyson, Mr Frey and Mr Yeo. They've been arrested by the local police, I'm not sure if they're onto us. Forgive us-' Stubbing his cigar into the ashtray, the man pushed himself up, towering over the runner. Without warning, thick hands wrapped around the helpless runner before a loud snap was hard, body falling limply onto the Arabian carpet.

Everyone who was in the room held their breaths, not daring to move an inch. 'Someone clean the mess,' The cold voice could make one's skin stand. The man was infuriated. Whoever had the guts to foil his operations wasn't an ordinary individual. But it didn't matter for his resolve became firmer.

'Put in everything we have to find the person responsible for this and bring them to me! I'll kill her myself.' 
  1. Cold Blooded

