

# Confessions of the Rat Race

By David Owoyemi

Copyright 2013 David Owoyemi

Smashwords Edition

Smashwords Edition License Notes:

Thank you for downloading this free ebook. Although this is a free book, it remains the copyrighted property of the author, and may not be reproduced, copied and distributed for commercial or non-commercial purposes. If you enjoyed this book, please encourage your friends to download their own copy at Smashwords.com. Thank you for your support.

# Table of Contents

A true RAT RACE Confession

Introduction

Chapter 1: Welcome to the RAT RACE

Chapter 2: Running the RAT RACE

A tragic path

A tragic end

Chapter 3: Building the RAT RACE Empire

Parents and the Rat Race

The School and the Rat Race

Reference

Note from the Author

About the Author

#  A TRUE RAT RACE CONFESSION

By Bishop Femi Owoyemi

Many years ago I was a Bank Executive - Deputy General Manager in a prominent and fast growing Merchant Bank. I had good income, good fringe benefits, good success and good influence. However, I noticed that I dreaded Mondays. I detested the daily routine of work - home - eat - sleep - wake up – work. I felt as if I was spiraling down a hole. I was working very hard and I was one of the most productive executives in the Bank at the time. I was however tormented inside of me. Many people would not even complain about the type of job I had because its pay package was good and the conditions of service were very good. My employers and colleagues respected me and I was still not at peace within me. The job brought me in contact with many people and I had reasonable influence but I was still not satisfied. In spite of the apparent excitement in the job, I was bored. I was with the bank for four years. Even though the Executive Chairman encouraged me to work another two years with the Bank, I resigned.

This was not the first time I had such a terrible feeling. At 28, I was the Financial Accountant of SmithKline Beecham – a fast growing international pharmaceutical company. I received the 'Manager of the year' award in my first year. However, six months after I started work in the company, I was already getting bored. The job was thought to be challenging but I found it boring. I took on every conceivable responsibility in order to get busy. I cajoled the Chief Accountant into passing some of his schedule to me with no extra pay. As my responsibilities increased my dissatisfaction did not wane. I organized and commenced a training program for the staff of the Accounts department. I taught in the program every Saturday. I had two Managers and five Supervisors directly reporting to me. The Accounts department had a working staff of about twenty people and I was still bored. I kept the job for only two years.

In Eurotrade Nigeria Limited where I had to face a major problem-solving situation on resumption of duty, the same feeling crept in. At 30, I was chauffeur driven - an executive of no mean stature. My income was very good. I supervised the work of quite a few expatriates – Greeks, Americans and Englishmen, I was still bored. My job had grown into General Management. I was responsible for formulating and implementing policies in relation to production, operations, distribution, procurement, storage, merchandising, management reporting, and administration. I was still bored. I did not seem to experience the excitement that work should give. Four years after joining the company, I left. (One year later, he joined Peat Marwick, Ani, Ogunde Consultants as a Management Consultant.)

Management Consulting is one of the most challenging and exciting professions on earth. It is a problem solving profession. In my own case however after twelve months the excitement vanished. I could not even tell my boss that I was bored because I was a very productive worker. After eighteen months, I left.

This might appear weird for some people. They might not understand how one could have the kind of jobs that I had and still complained. They might even say that I was not grateful to God who placed me in those wonderful jobs. But those jobs never satisfied me...Many people go through life in the manner I have just described. They have changed jobs many times but have not found the fulfillment they wanted. Some may not change jobs at all for the sake of having a career but they still feel the emptiness associated with the inability to fulfill their inner craving...It is not the level of income that determines what we are talking about but the need to satisfy something that God has put in everyone of us.

Bishop Femi Owoyemi is the Senior Pastor, Kingdom Lighthouse Church, Rhode Island, USA. After rising to the position of Deputy General Manager at First City Merchant Bank and Director of CSL Stockbrokers, Nigeria he resigned in 1992 and was drawn into active ministry by the call of God in 1997.

************

# INTRODUCTION

In 2006, I got an opportunity to do a one month internship in the accounts department of a major Stockbroking firm in Lagos, Nigeria. As a university undergraduate it was my first real taste of the world of work so I was full of excitement initially. On average I worked for 10 hours and spent another 5 hours commuting to work. Of course I couldn't complain about this because it was nothing new to millions of _lagosians_.

In just two weeks, I began to experience a growing dissatisfaction with the job. Ironically, this had nothing to do with the stress of commuting or the work load but it was about something quite unusual; I was bored. As early as 12noon everyday I would start looking at the clock, wishing that the day would come to an end quickly. Even though I didn't know what TGIF (Thank God It's Friday) meant then, I always looked forward to Fridays and dreaded Mondays. Yet, I wasn't so idle. Despite spending just one month my immediate boss and even the managing director of the company were impressed by my commitment and performance on the job.

I remember being asked by my colleagues whether I would like to come back to work in the organization. They were surprised that I had no interest in returning. Actually, there was nothing wrong with the job or the organization. The salary was reasonable, the work environment lovely, and I had won the heart of the Managing Director. But I saw the work that I would likely be doing there as a full staff and I knew it wouldn't give me fulfillment. I was glad the internship only lasted one month.

I was very young then so maybe I had options. My parents were still responsible for my upkeep. I probably would have endured if I had gotten the job as a graduate. I might have spent three, seven or even more years there trying to climb the corporate ladder while ignoring the dissatisfaction in my heart. I might have asked to be transferred to a different department or taken a higher paying job along the line even if it also wasn't fulfilling. But will I be satisfied with my life 10, 15 years down the line? I can't really tell. One thing I am grateful for, however, is that at an early age I realized that a man could work hard all his life, earn so much, even be recognized, and yet be haunted by a lack of fulfillment in his work. I realized that no matter how much we pretend that money is all that matters, at the very core of our hearts is the desire for happiness, fulfillment and meaning in our lives and work.

Today humanity is faced with a crisis - the loss of purpose or meaning, identity, and values, as man is preoccupied with the pursuit of money to meet his needs. Human potential is largely untapped, talents are misused, and the challenges of our world continue to multiply. For long we have celebrated and idolized super heroes - a few great men and women who have made outstanding contributions in various fields. But that is not enough. The earth's greatest need is for everyone to find his area of land to till; to discern the need or vacuum he is sent to fill; to discover and deploy his 'tools' in the work that best suits it. But this need can hardly be met because the majority of people are stuck in the RAT RACE.

The book 'Confessions of the RAT RACE' is the product of a deep concern for a world that is trying as much as possible to silence the voice of the heart as they pursue survival and success. It is born out of a concern for

  * Men and women who in the search for security have become stuck in a job or career they are dissatisfied with.

  * Men and women whose greatest strengths lay buried while they try to acquire other skills just to fit in a career or job.

  * People who wait endlessly for the big financial break that will enable them pursue their dreams, and yet when this break comes they are compelled to work harder for money to maintain their new status.

  * Men who attain success and wealth only to find their hearts yearning to do something else but they lack the courage to chart a new course.

  * People in their middle ages who have spent most of their productive years pursuing money and are raising their children to follow in their footsteps

  * Retirees who go to bed daily with dreams and ideas they never found the time to pursue.

  * Young people who having started 'hustling' for survival from an early age might end up no different from their parents who are stuck in the rat race.

  * People across the globe who have been told to find their purpose or pursue their dreams, but can't do so because of financial challenges which compel them to pursue survival primarily.

Ironically, this book doesn't provide tips or steps out of the RAT RACE because they actually don't exist. There are no shortcuts. The RAT RACE is a product of wrong assumptions and beliefs about work, money and human wants that have consolidated over time to become an ideology strongly entrenched in our society. Hence, the book digs deep into the workings of the RAT RACE to unravel the truth that is hardly told or understood. Rather than provide a quick solution it focuses on engineering a paradigm shift - a departure from the thought patterns that have gotten most people enslaved in the RAT RACE.

This book is based on the realization that getting out of d rat race is a journey that takes time. It is a process that requires the commitment of every individual. Hence it is not advocating immediate lifestyle changes but that readers will first seek to understand, question their motives towards work and their relationship with money, and come to a point of self re-discovery.

In a world where the challenges of unemployment and financial crisis continually stir us in the face, understanding the RAT RACE perhaps holds the key to attaining financial freedom and finding one's true work. I hope this book helps you to achieve this because it is truly revolutionary.

_David Owoyemi_ , Oct 2013

*************

#  Chapter 1: Welcome to the RAT RACE

" _You are not here merely to make a living. You are here in order to enable the world live more amply, with greater vision, with a finer spirit of home and achievement. You are here to enrich the world and you impoverish yourself if you forget that errand." - **Woodrow Wilson**_

For most people, living has become an endless search for money. It's all about survival, comfort, getting possessions, acquiring status and so on. Does it all make sense? Yes it does, at least to the vast majority of people who have a wrong perception of success. Mankind is in trouble and this is not about the common problems of unemployment, AIDS, financial crisis, terrorism and so on. It is something more subtle, yet more catastrophic than you can think of.

For the first time, I have decided to share this truth which I have long kept to myself. Tough times like this offer an opportunity for appraisals and adjustments, especially with regards to getting back to the basics. I bother not if my message isn't heeded because I am aware that most people will rather resist change than embrace it. Then the RAT RACE Empire will grow even more.

So why the confession? It's my hope that a few people will listen and tell others; that a few will have the courage to shout it at the rooftops and in the marketplace; that a few will debate about it, research on it and try to come to greater understanding; that a few will keep the conversation alive, influence others and ensure that the truth passes on from one generation to another. Perhaps through these few, more people will embrace the needed change. Be assured, there might never be anymore confessions after this.

## RAT RACE???

The RAT RACE wasn't my creation. It is purely man's invention. But it has developed over the years and is now almost beyond his control. The RAT RACE is an ideology based on wrong assumptions and beliefs about money, work and human wants or needs. It is a futile, endless cycle of working for money in order to meet needs. You may be wondering why 'endless cycle of working for money' could be a problem since it is what most people spend their lives on. Could the masses be wrong? Wait till you find out some basic truths that have long been distorted.

## WORK

" _I find out what the world needs. Then, I go ahead and invent it."- **Thomas Edison**_

It is surprising that most people hardly understand this all important subject despite spending as much as one-third of their lives in it. So here are a few things about work that you probably weren't told at home or school.

I) Work exists because of vacuums on the earth.

The earth was designed to be imperfect so that at every moment, in every place, in every aspect of life, there are needs or vacuums that need to be filled. Work is created anytime and anywhere there is a vacuum on the earth - a need, a problem, a room for improvement, an avenue to add value... I hope you are beginning to realize the magnitude of work that is available for man to do.

ii) Everyone is 'sent' to work.

At man's arrival on earth, work was waiting for him. Everyone enters the world to find crisis, imperfections or vacuums waiting to be filled. In fact, you can say that every child born into the earth was sent because of a need or needs that already existed. That's why humans are endowed with great potentials.

iii) There is more than enough work to go round

Everything that exists naturally was designed to go round. In most cases where there are shortages man is the culprit. Just as there is enough air, water, land, sunlight to meet the world's needs, there is enough work to go round. Jobs might be limited, but work isn't. You will soon find out the difference.

iv) Not all work is obvious.

There are two kinds of vacuums - The first is the gap between current reality (what is) and expected reality (what should be) while the other is the gap between current reality and potential reality (what could be or what is possible). This vacuum is limitless. The first vacuum mostly requires common sense to identify. It's the area where most people work in. For example, when there is an inconvenience somewhere, almost everyone has an idea of what needs to be done (Expected reality). But few people cultivate the discipline of the mind and heart to see the vast possibilities for improvement in any endeavour or area of need. Those who do, always see avenues for work and opportunities to gain benefits. There are people who see vacuums around them and strive to fill them, and there are also people, albeit few of them, who anticipate the world's needs and prepare to meet them. So work can never be exhausted.

v) Every man is equipped with work tools

As with every form of employment, there are basic work tools usually given to a worker to enable him or her carry out the task he is engaged to do. Come to think of it, how come every man is gifted in one thing or another? Are talents just for bragging or personal gains? Are they unfair coincidences - products of luck and heredity? No. Although there are varying levels of ability, it is undeniable that everyone is endowed in some way.

You see, packaged into every man is a bag of tools consisting of his mind, talents, personality strengths, Instinct, and so on, which when subjected to practice and training, could deliver great value. Since there is so much work to be done, each one is given a unique mix of tools so that men could complement each other and get more work done together. Hence, every man does his best work and exhibits his greatest relevance in the areas that fits his tools.

There is a secret here. One of man's greatest duties from the moment he arrives on the earth is to identify his tools and the work that his tools were meant to do. It is in pursuing this work that he realizes his utmost potential, reward and fulfillment.

I discovered my writing talent at the age of 15 while going through a slum book. Someone wrote a few lines, I fell in love with the rhymes and I decided to try out mine. Little did I know that what seemed like a coincidence was actually the stirring of a tool that had long been in me; a tool I had been given to meet a specific need on the earth. I am glad I am meeting that need and you are benefitting as a result.

Vi) Work wasn't created for money

One of mankind's greatest undoing is the belief that the purpose of work is to earn money. So they work hard all their lives to make as much money as they can. In this case, money (or financial independence or success as it is sometimes called) is the main goal while work is only a means to that end. It is assumed that once one became rich there was no more need for work. But have you ever wondered where money was when man began to work? Work is a duty placed on every man for which he has been equipped and will be rewarded. It is what he is required to do to maintain the earth as long he inhabits it.

vii) Everyone must find his or her true work

Work provides the platform to effectively harness and deploy your life's greatest treasures – your time, energy, talent and skills, and so on. But these resources have to be channeled in the right work. Men should not be satisfied with just working for money; rather they should seek to discover their true work. True work has four major components - Fulfillment (You are doing something that aligns with your heart and tools), Impact (You are adding value to the earth by meeting a need or solving a problem), Reward (Because the world needs your work, you are compensated in return. Money is only one of such rewards), and Growth (You should become better as a result of what you do. True work helps to sharpen your tools and harness your potentials). Actually, not every work you do will have all these components, but keep searching while giving your best where you are.

## MONEY

' _This planet has - or rather had - a problem, which was this: most of the people living on it were unhappy for pretty much of the time. Many solutions were suggested for this problem, but most of these were largely concerned with the movement of small green pieces of paper, which was odd because on the whole it wasn't the small green pieces of paper that were unhappy.' ― **Douglas Adams, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy**_

**Money** , in and of itself, is nothing. It can be a shell, a metal coin, or a piece of paper with a historic image on it, but the value that people place on it has nothing to do with the physical value of the money. Money derives its value by being a medium of exchange, a unit of measurement and a storehouse for wealth...Money is valuable merely because everyone knows everyone else will accept it as a form of payment.

In my world, money is one of the most respected forces because of the influence it has on man. I wasn't there when it was created but it is the source of my relevance. It is ironic that its creation wasn't so remarkable compared to the worship it currently enjoys. Money, as history recounts, was man's invention and its aim was to facilitate the exchange of goods and services in meeting needs. Prior to its creation, men met their needs by themselves or by exchanging something they had for what they wanted. At some point, making an exchange became challenging. For example, it was sometimes difficult to ascertain the worth of what one had in relation to what one was to get from the other party. There was also the challenge of movement of items, so men thought it wise to create a more comfortable way to exchange what they had for what they wanted.

Let's get into more details about money:

i) The real thing is not money but the exchange.

Pennies do not come from heaven. They have to be earned here on earth. - **Margaret Thatcher**

Even without money, people have always met their needs by themselves or by giving something they had in exchange of what they wanted. Money just came to facilitate the exchange. But men focused on getting money while failing to understand what exchange is all about. It is like chasing shadows rather than the substance.

In Sept 2010, I got a job as an Account Executive in a paint manufacturing company with a monthly salary of N35,000. I was so happy to find so many needs to be met and I immediately set out to work. But the value I was receiving in terms of reward and growth prospects wasn't commensurate with the value I was adding. Eight months later, I resigned. But the management of the company didn't want me to leave because I was an asset to them. They now offered to pay N80,000 monthly. Although I insisted on leaving, I was given a gift of N150,000 as a token of appreciation for my contributions. **NOTE:** 1) I brought high value to the 'Exchange table' which earned me the right to receive high value in return. 2) Although I was initially short paid, my decision to resign put me in a position to negotiate a better deal. Months after I left, I was still called upon to come and take a higher position. 3) Resigning may not work for everyone. So every individual must constantly search for strategies for getting a better deal. 4) This JOB scenario is only one of several avenues for exchange but the principles still apply. The key thing is having value to offer and knowing how to negotiate a better deal for what you have.

ii) Money must be understood

Making money isn't hard in itself... What's hard is to earn it doing something worth devoting one's life to.― **Carlos Ruiz Zafón** , **The Shadow of the Wind**

Like the computer, every of man's inventions must first be understood before benefiting from it or mastering it. Remember that while work has always existed, money is man's creation. This means that, despite their inter-dependence they are still independent entities. Hence, you need to understand the principles guiding work as well as those of money.

For example, do you know that working for money doesn't guarantee that you will have much money? There are people who spend their lives working for money and yet still end up broke. By understanding how money works, you can make the most of whatever money comes to you and even generate more without having to work for it. Also, pursuing your true work doesn't guarantee that you will have much money either. You must learn about money to know how to profit from the opportunities that your true work presents.

Wait a minuite. I have a feeling that you haven't fully understood the idea that money and work, though interdependent are independent entities. So, I will explain further.

  * Work is only one of the several channels to getting money. This means that you can get money legitimately without working for it. Rather than expending your time working for money, you could exchange other things for money. You could get money to work for you. These are things the rich among you do. By understanding money, they seek to build systems and acquire assets that will ensure money continually flows in their direction even without their physical involvement. It is the poor and middle class that work for money all their lives. You need to learn from the rich.

  * Money is only one of the several rewards for work. As earlier mentioned, true work provides fulfillment, impact, growth and reward. So it is possible to be compensated for work without receiving money. But this shouldn't be a permanent arrangement.

I have observed that there are people who are consistently under-compensated for their work even though they are making impact, experiencing fulfillment and growth. Consider the case of most teachers, inventors, honest public servants, volunteers or staffs of NGOs and so on. But this need not be. I am not saying that everyone must be rich but that everyone deserves to be adequately rewarded for adding value to the earth. Provision has already been made for this. Truth is, no matter how happy a man is with his work, there is a limit to which he can be contented with little or not having his needs met, especially since there is more than enough resources in the world to go round. So, in the long run, not getting enough financial reward from one's true work could be a challenge. This situation often happens because although these people are adding value, they have little understanding about money. They simply assume that their good work will speak for them. Sometimes this works out especially in the long term but other times it doesn't.

People have long been told to pursue their passions or dreams but many are unable to because of the fear of not being able to meet their financial obligations. Truly, these fears are justified because despite the celebrated examples of people who decided to pursue their true work and achieved wealth in the process, there are many more people who are stranded trying to do the same thing. They just haven't heard the whole truth, that

  * Though there is profit in every labor, knowledge is required in order to maximize profit.

  * Apart from the obvious financial prospects in a man's work (Some work don't even look like they have any financial prospect on the surface), most times there are hidden opportunities for profit that require creativity and innovation to tap into.

  * It is not sufficient to work hard to add value to the earth, you must work smart in order to benefit maximally. It is like negotiating a better deal for what you are bringing to the exchange.

  * They could still get money from other sources while pursuing their true work. Some works have a longer gestation period for profit than others. So it makes sense to explore other avenues for income to supplement their current earnings. Of course, this should be done in such a way that their true work doesn't suffer.

In conclusion, irrespective of the work a man does He needs to understand how money works – how to get it and manage it. This understanding could be liberating for many who are afraid to venture into their true work for fear that they might not be able to meet their financial obligations.

So how does one understand money? The same way you do for other human inventions such as your computer and electronic gadgets. You observe, read, ask questions, experiment and so on. So much has already been written about money, so look for the experts and learn from them.

On leaving the university in 2008, despite having read a number of books on money ( **RICH DAD POOR DAD by Robert Kiyosaki** being my favourite), the primary way I had always gotten money was through gifts from people. I was posted for the National youth service corps (NYSC) programme in Borno state that same year (2008), supposedly on a mission to add value. First, I was posted to a secondary school to teach students who had for long been deprived of quality education. Secondly, I was elected as an executive in the Christian fellowship. There was so much work to do because of the needs on ground – both among my colleagues and within the local community. Truthfully, while this work provided a great platform for fulfillment, impact, and growth, there was no financial reward. I earned N10,750 monthly through the federal and state allowances, with nothing much coming from any other sources. This obviously was inadequate. For the first time in my life, I started asking myself, 'How can I make money?' In other words, 'how do I survive in a tough economic situation while doing the work I was sent to do?' It was the first time I faced the reality that one could be adding value and yet be in lack. I had always heard that if I added value, money would naturally flow in my direction. It just wasn't working out that way, at least, until I decided to take the bull by the horns. Thankfully, I had read a little about money. I just needed to practice what I had learnt. My quest for survival pushed me to start two pet businesses while I inherited another one from a senior colleague. This way, I made extra income while doing the work I was sent to do. The year turned out to be one of my best.

This experience had a life changing effect on my life. I began to ask questions about the work I felt I was called to do in life. I have always known that I will be working in the NGO sector, but despite the huge contributions NGOs make to our world, I began to fear for their sustainability because of the heavy dependence on external funding – grants and donations. The more I asked questions the more I concluded that NGOs needed to have a plan for making their own money rather than be at the mercies of sponsors. I didn't know that across the globe other people were also thinking in that line. I stumbled across the subject of Social Entrepreneurship and I immediately fell in love with it.

I was still studying about this when I decided to join an NGO in Nov 2011 after spending eight months at home without a job. For me, it was a temporary engagement because I hoped to get a good job soon. Again I was doing work that was fulfilling, impactful and personally enriching yet with no financial reward. The first few weeks were a hard time for me. It confirmed what I had been thinking about – the traditional NGO model was not financially sustainable. But I had to fight for myself. I needed a solution to my financial handicap. Then an opportunity presented itself. I discovered that I could earn money as an Accountant on a freelance basis while still working at the NGO. In other words, I could work for money while also doing the work I was passionate about.

But I wasn't satisfied with just making money as a freelance Accountant. A lot of things were competing for my time and I couldn't handle more than one or two engagements at a time. At the same time, I saw a great need for my services. I wanted to make the most of this vacuum to add value to businesses as well as make profit. So I decided to create an asset – a company, to engage others (especially those who are also passionate about adding value to small businesses) in tapping this opportunity. Today, I have the freedom to pursue my true work because I am exploring avenues to earn income from my tools – writing and speaking, my company, solving social problems, partnership with other entrepreneurs and businesses and several other business ideas in the pipeline.

**NOTE:** 1) While some may find enough financial reward in their true work, some may need to pursue money first and their true work later and some others, like me, may have to combine the pursuit of money with the pursuit of their true work. Each of these options requires knowledge and proper planning to ensure a reasonable balance between the two pursuits **2)** Never assume that money will come. You need to ask questions - the right questions. For example, do you really need a higher paying job to make more money? What other legitimate channels can you explore to make money in the interim so you don't get stranded pursuing your dreams?

FOR YOUR INFORMATION

**Trevor Baylis:** Adding value **and g** oing **broke**

After inventing over 250 products, including the world's first wind-up radio, a shoe that can charge a mobile phone, and a self-weighing briefcase; after receiving about a dozen honourary degrees and the award of the Order of the British Empire (OBE); and meeting with Nelson Mandela and Queen Elizabeth as a result of his work, Trevor Baylis (b1937), one of Britain's greatest inventors, now lives in poverty. Surprisingly, he got broke while trying to meet the needs of others.

In 1991, Baylis decided to respond to an urgent need in Africa. To reduce the spread of AIDS, Africans, especially those in the remote areas, needed to be more informed about the disease, and the easiest way to reach them was through the radio. Since electricity was scarcely available and batteries were expensive, Baylis went to work on a low- cost alternative – a windup radio. A windup radio didn't use batteries but was powered by winding a crank. Recently, it was named by the Radio Times as one of the 50 greatest British inventions of all time, along with the steam engine, the television, the jet and the World Wide Web. After building a prototype, Baylis experienced rejection over and over again as he sought support for the production of his invention. His big break came in 1994 when his invention was featured on BBC's _Tomorrow's World_ programme. Then he started attracting investments, which led to the formation of a company called Freeplay Energy in 1996. That same year, he met Queen Elizabeth and Nelson Mandela. Tours, accolades, and a lot of media coverage followed.

For Baylis, this was a dream come true. He was pursuing his passion and adding value because he was filling a vacuum that not much had been done about. Unfortunately, he left out something also very important. According to an online article, "Baylis had heard the call, answered a need, and was helping people, but he forgot to help himself along the way."3 Baylis didn't protect his invention adequately so Freeplay improved the design and lost control of the product. According to him, 'I was very foolish. I didn't protect my product properly and allowed other people to take my product away.'4 He also voluntarily sold his shares in the company. Freeplay went on to sell over three million wind-up radios but Baylis hardly made any profit from his invention.

This is only one of Baylis' several projects whose financial prospects he was unable to harness. In 1985 he developed a range of products for the disabled called orange aids, but here is what happened to it, in his own words, _'There is only one person I blame for getting shafted, and that's myself. I went into the deal which I thought would secure the future of the orange aids with culpable impetuosity. I had been used to doing business on a handshake and my word of honour, and I made the error of actually believing what the men in the pin-striped suits told me."_5

Again in the bid to do good, Baylis decided to help other younger inventors avoid the mistakes he made. Out of his personal funds, he established Trevo Baylis Brands to help inventors protect their works and bring them to the market. Allegedly, the company has helped over 9000 inventors till date, but it is now struggling financially. Although Baylis has a heart to do good, his little understanding of the financial dimension of his work is what has gotten him in his current situation. No amount of good works or high earnings is a substitute for financial literacy.

iii) Working for money is a choice

Although people have been working before money was created, it is true that work is one way to get money. Unfortunately, it is the only channel that most people know and explore. The reason why people work for money all their lives is that they are not aware of the other channels of getting money legitimately. Money alone is not an adequate compensation for work. You must never forget this.

I am not saying that it is evil to work for money. Almost everyone will need to do so at some point in their lives. But where one pursues work in order to get money over a long period of time at the expense of one's true work, it becomes difficult to find meaning and fulfillment. And one will be robbing the earth of one's greatest usefulness.

iv) Money is not the primary goal of work

" _Money is for doing things, my love. Don't sit on it like a hen sits on an egg. It doesn't hatch. I should know. I've made enough of it." ― **Maureen Johnson, The Last Little Blue Envelope**_

Money is a means, not an end. It is like fuel in a vehicle. It is neither the vehicle nor the destination. It is important but its role needs to be properly defined so as not to give it undue reverence. Money is good but it could enslave when it becomes one's ultimate goal.

## WANTS

A man wants to earn money in order to be happy, and his whole effort and the best of a life are devoted to the earning of that money. Happiness is forgotten; the means are taken for the end.― **Albert Camus, The Myth of Sisyphus and Other Essays**

Human needs are basic – food, clothing and shelter - but over the years man has subscribed to an endless and increasingly sophisticated list of wants which drive the demand for money. Of course, there is nothing wrong with desiring good things. But with more money comes more wants which in turn leads to the demand for more money. It means that men have to work harder and harder to make the money needed to meet these endless wants. Now you see why most people spend their lifetime in the Rat Race. It is most regretful that work, which was meant to be an avenue for fulfillment, growth, impact and reward, is reduced to an endeavor aimed at getting money to meet needs.

Come to think of it,

  * Meeting your wants will not necessarily give you happiness

  * It's okay to strive to meet your wants but man was not created to live for himself alone.

  * Your spending habit could keep you perpetually in the RAT RACE.

Hardly does anyone consciously decide to spend his or her most productive years chasing after money. But it usually starts in a subtle way. It starts with trying to get money to meet basic needs and get by, then trying to meet family obligations, then trying to achieve some personal goal or project, then trying to maintain a particular lifestyle, and then trying to accumulate money for future spending...on and on it goes. Months become years and years become decades and before you know it a lifetime is spent in the Rat Race pursuing money to meet needs and wants. One's true work is never discovered, tools never maximized, destiny never fully realized, the earth never fully served, and yet at the end of life, many more needs and wants remain unmet.

## JOBS

Every job from the heart is, ultimately, of equal value. The nurse injects the syringe; the writer slides the pen; the farmer plows the dirt; the comedian draws the laughter. Monetary income is the perfect deceiver of a man's true worth.― **Criss Jami**

While WORK existed before man, JOB was his creation. It came about when a few people found work they could not do alone, so they engaged other people to help achieve their goal. An organization was created to harness these people's tools to get much more work done. In return for their labour these people were compensated by receiving a small portion of the profits that accrued to the organization from the collective work of everyone. So, JOB is simply a platform for helping someone do his work in exchange for a reward.

I was at home for nine months in 2011 looking for a job, but we recently employed staff in my company. The main point I want to highlight here is how I went from being a job seeker to creating jobs for others. First, I discovered a vacuum which I could fill. For me, there was no market research or anything. I met an Entrepreneur who needed Accounting services and was willing to pay something reasonable. I just had a conviction that there were many more entrepreneurs and businesses who might need the same service. So in a bid to meet this need, I created work for myself as a freelance accountant. With time, I stopped looking for a job as I saw a great potential in what I was doing. I realized that the work was more than I could handle alone so I decided to become more organized. I identified two partners who were also passionate about the work and we started a company. Now that company is creating jobs to engage others in helping to do the work that I discovered.

10 truths about JOBS

1) There is nothing wrong with having a job

Of course, you already know this, but I just needed to emphasize it before you go through the remaining points. Having a job doesn't necessarily mean you are in the Rat Race.

2) A job is a platform for service

By working in an organization, you are meeting a need there and contributing towards its success. When the organization succeeds, everyone – employees, management, shareholders, vendors, government, and the immediate community – benefits. (at least they should). The society is also better off for it. So serve well because someday you might also create jobs for others.

3) A job is a training ground

A job is not a place to stay forever. It should be a platform to prepare you and your tools and sometimes even help you to discover or support your true work. Learn as much as you can while giving your best effort wherever you are.

4) Most people will never be adequately compensated on their job.

Despite the input of every worker in an organization, it is the owners that own the money being made. They determine what eventually gets into the hands of everyone else. Aside this, it is often difficult to value what you are bringing to the job. For example, how does an organization measure and pay for your time, energy, intelligence, education, skills, experience, integrity, loyalty and so on? So it is most likely that you may not be adequately rewarded for the value you are adding in an organization. Besides, organizations have so many other bills to settle apart from salary.

This is the more reason why you shouldn't work just for a paycheck. Get more than the money. For example, can the job provide a platform for fulfillment, impact and growth? Can you leverage on it to get or achieve something more worthwhile? On the other hand, there are places you might not need to stay too long because there is not much to gain.

5) Most jobs will utilize only a minute fraction of your skills and potentials.

Many people develop competence and acquire experience in certain areas of skill and expertise by reason of the jobs they do. Yet, there are still vast potentials they haven't even scratched. Jobs tend to channel people's capacities in a narrow area of work, but this is not the fault of any employer because a job simply reflects the need in an organization at a particular time. So this leaves you with the sole responsibility of managing your 'tools'. One thing is sure, even when you retire from work, you will likely judge yourself for the tools you hadn't used adequately.

6) Mind your work while you are in another's work

Consider the years and resources expended on acquiring degrees and certifications, which are mostly channeled towards getting a good job. The job comes and as much as half of the day is spent working and commuting to work. Then more time and resources is spent on courses or trainings to improve one's performance on the job or position one for a better job. Meanwhile, little or no time is spent preparing for one's true work.

The workplace is getting more demanding. People are spending more time on their job even when outside the office, leaving little or no time for other endeavours. Although they hope to pursue their passions someday, they do not know how to start. Over time the nudging in their heart has been silenced by the demands of the job. The transition from working for money to doing their true work is difficult because they have not been preparing themselves. Those who make this transition successfully are those who have been working on themselves, discovering their tools and doing something while at the job. I know this could be difficult but it is not about doing big things. It is about little things like writing that poem once in a while, volunteering for the cause you are passionate about in your spare time, spending your weekend practicing the piano or just anything that your heart truly longs to do to impact your world.

7) Being good on the job doesn't mean you can start an organization

Almost everyone in a job has once thought about starting something of their own, especially those who are good at what they do who believe they can earn more than their job currently pays. In reality, that you are good at what you do doesn't mean you have what it takes to start an organization. To start an organization, you must have first identified a vacuum and drawn out a plan on how you intend to fill it and make profit from doing so. This is not to scare you but to let you know that it has its own demands and you had better made a lot of enquiry and preparation before setting out. Also, not everyone is to create an organization, there are people who are sent to help build and manage other people's work.

8) Employment is a function of demand and supply

I know a lot of countries are currently facing an unemployment crisis, so I decided to say something about it here. Unemployment results when there are more people looking for jobs than is available, that is, when the demand for jobs exceed the supply for it. You already know the various factors affecting the supply of jobs, but there is one which you might not be aware of.

For a world that has consistently raised her children to follow the 3G Code – Go to school, Get a good grade and Get a good job – how will there ever be enough jobs? Jobs are in short supply because most people are looking for someone to give them work rather than discovering their work. Remember that jobs are created by people who found a need, created work and needed to engage others in getting it done. So you see that despite the massive population looking for jobs, there are so many needs all around waiting to be filled. Two things are most needed; firstly, the ability to create work by preferring solutions to problems, and secondly, the understanding of money to know how to profit adequately from adding value. Finally, in times of crisis, rather than wait for help, people should rise and seize the moment.

9) Starting a business is not an automatic escape from the Rat Race

Many people assume that the rat race is all about the 9 to 5 job. Not so. Many entrepreneurs are also in the rat race. They might be working for themselves but as long as they are just working for money in order to meet their needs, they are also in the Rat Race.

10) You might never leave the rat race if your job is your only source of income

What will happen to you if you are out of your job for three months? Will you still be able to earn income? People look for job security because the salary is all they have got. Money is no spirit or mystery. It knows neither rich nor poor; if you understand it, it will flow in your direction. The lesser you have to depend on a paycheck, the more your freedom to follow your heart.

## THE RAT RACE (In Summary)

WORK, like breathing has always been an inseparable part of man. It was what he did to play, exercise, eat, express his gifts, prove his worth, care for his environment, serve his God, help his fellowman and so on. Work was done willingly from the heart. It was enjoyable and unique. It was life.

MONEY hasn't always been in the picture. The way a farmer fabricates some tools to use in doing his work, money was created to enable man value and exchange the product of his work. In other words, money was only a messenger and it carried the value that was attached to it.

Human WANTS kept growing as man evolved. These wants influenced the demand for money. Somehow, the pursuit of money became an over-riding emphasis. The need to have money rather than add value became the primary motivation for work.

The more people pursued money, the farther they got from their true WORK as they were willing to take on any work just to get money. Many people lived their whole lives helping to do another's work. They were like a farmer who abandons his farm, his tools and the harvest he would have reaped, to work as a goldsmith in the pursuit of money. Fulfillment and Impact became optional as long as money was being made. Worse still, the more people earned money; the more their wants; the more they wanted to catch up with others; the greater the pressure to get money; and the longer and harder they had to work to earn more money. It wasn't long before work became a burden rather than an enjoyment. It became slavery.

That is the story of the Rat Race. There is nothing wrong with getting money to meet your needs but it shouldn't jeopardise the pursuit of your true work. Life can't be maximized if you spend your entire working years in the Rat Race. It is full of regret at the end.

************

## ACTIVITY

  * Do you have a rat race experience too? Get one or two of your friends and ask them about their rat race experience. What are the similarities in your stories?

  * Look around for someone who has left the rat race and seek to know how they were able to achieve this.

  * Create a list of everything you have always felt passionate about doing from your childhood till now, especially those aimed at adding value. Which of them have consistently been coming to your mind? What can you do about it now?

  * Create a list of all the 'TOOLS' you have and the things you can bring to the 'EXCHANGE' table in order to get money. How many of them are you currently making the most of?

  * Get a material on money or personal finance this week. You could start with RICH DAD POOR DAD by Robert Kiyosaki

*************

# Chapter 2: Running the RAT RACE

If money is your hope for independence you will never have it. The only real security that a man will have in this world is a reserve of knowledge, experience, and ability. - **Henry Ford**

The RAT RACE begins for most people right after school as they enter the workplace and try to build a career. For some, it starts earlier, in their childhood or adolescence, as they struggle to support their family financially. But even after getting enough money most people never leave the RAT RACE. They just continue running over the course of their lives. This pursuit is fueled by

1) The crave for success

There are various definitions for success but the prevalent emphasis on material gains is undeniable. Since your society idolizes success, the vigorous pursuit of money is inevitable. People keep running in the RAT RACE as long as they subscribe to this materialistic definition of success.

2) The crave to be ahead of others

The RAT RACE conjures the image of rats in a maze trying to outrun each other. It is a competition of some sort. The need to get ahead of others fuels the drive to go farther and stay longer in the race. Although competition is a normal and vital attribute of human nature, its twin brother, comparison, is what often gets people into trouble.

In most cases, this crave to be ahead of others is fueled by the emotions of fear (not wanting to be left behind) and ambition (wanting to be seen in front). Hence, most people strive hard to make money and meet up with societal expectation. Sometimes this hard work pays off in form of higher paycheck, promotions and recognition, but it usually comes with a huge sacrifice – the loss of meaning, fulfillment and sometimes, ones identity.

3) The crave for happiness

Often people attempt to live their lives backwards, they try to have more things or more money in order to do more of what they want so that they will be happier. The way it actually works is the reverse. You must first be who you really are then do what you need to do in order to have what you want. ― **Margaret Young**

What is the secret of happiness? Believe me, that is a story for another day. But the erroneous equation of happiness as comfort is largely responsible for many people remaining in the rat race. The thinking that having more than enough to meet one's needs is the route to happiness in life makes the rat race a futile attempt at finding happiness. It is just the wrong place to look.

## A TRAGIC PATH

The greatest challenge of running the RAT RACE is the fact that most people will remain in it, spending the most of their productive years trying to earn a living, not discovering and pursuing their true work, and perpetually nursing the feeling of emptiness and regret, yet not having the courage to change their path.

FOR YOUR INFORMATION

Top Career Regrets

Everyday, people make career decisions which take them deeper into the Rat Race. They believe that as long as they make enough money they can ignore the voice of their heart. They only begin to see the effect of these decisions after several years, and unfortunately, it becomes harder to make the needed adjustments. Perhaps we can learn lessons from the response of a group of people to the question, 'What do you regret most about your career?'

Daniel Gulati, a contributor to the Harvard Business Review (HBR) Guide to getting the right job, interacted with a diverse group of 30 professionals including the managing director of an investment bank, a self-employed photographer, a millionaire entrepreneur, and a Fortune 500 CEO. The following were their top five career regrets6,

1. I wish I hadn't taken the job for the money.

Yes, you heard that right. This was the biggest regret of all. Many people take jobs and get stuck in careers which appear to be high paying but are eventually unfulfilling.

2. I wish I had quit earlier.

Most people who quit their jobs to pursue their passions wished they had done so earlier. They hesitated longer than they should; they gave excuses; they were afraid to take the first step; just like many other people today.

3. I wish I had the confidence to start my own business.

Almost everyone dreams of owning their business at some point in their lives. The most common limitation seems to be capital. Ironically, even after making enough money, only few people have the courage to start.

4. I wish I had used my time at school more productively.

The role of education in preparing people for work can't be over-emphasized, but often times, it is never really channeled appropriately.

5. I wish I had acted on my career hunches.

The crave for security often blinds people to opportunities that might have impacted greatly on their lives and work. We must never forget the words of Winston Churchill, 'To each there comes in their lifetime a special moment when they are tapped on the shoulder and offered the chance to do a very special thing, unique to them and fitted to their talents. What a tragedy if that moment finds them unprepared or unqualified for that which could have been their finest hour.'

##

## A TRAGIC END

Somebody should tell us right at the start of our lives that we are dying. Then we might live life to the limit – every minuite of the day." – **Michael Landon**

So you are in the RAT RACE, hoping someday you will be free from the enslavement to money. You started the race during your youth and hoped to spend five, ten years before following your heart. Truly to survive in the short term considering the difficult times is very important. If only you can keep to your promise and commit to getting out of the RAT RACE quickly. Maybe I could help you a little bit more. Fast forward to the end of your life, say at 70 years or more, when most of your energy must have been expended, when the result of what you must have done with your life speaks louder than ever, what would you most regret or celebrate? Would you be proud that you discovered and pursued your true work? Would you be happy to die empty?

FOR YOUR INFORMATION

Top 5 Regrets of the Dying

A palliative nurse who worked for many years caring for patients during the last twelve weeks of their lives identified the following as the top five regrets of the dying7

1. I wish I'd had the courage to live a life true to myself, not the life others expected of me

This specifically had to do with unfulfilled dreams. We have the habit of continually deferring our dreams, believing that we will always have the time to pursue them. But life keeps reminding us that anything not consciously planned and prepared for hardly turns out well.

2. I wish I didn't work so hard.

Our health and relationships are also suffering as a result of our hard pursuit after money.

3. I wish I'd had the courage to express my feelings.

4. I wish I had stayed in touch with my friends.

5. I wish that I had let myself be happier.

************

## ACTIVITY

  * What regrets do you currently have about your work, finance and life? How can you attain a remarkable difference in the next 6 months?

  * Reflect on how you would want to live differently so that these regrets will be avoided whether at mid-life (career regrets) or at the later end of your life (regrets of the dying)?

*************

#  Chapter 3: Building the RAT RACE Empire

You might be following a pre-defined career path with the hopes of using your overly expensive education to make a living and score the highest salary. Cultural conditioning implores us to do so. Your parents would be proud. But is it the way to go? Sure, taking a six figure salary is great. I have done it and so have many of my friends. But we were left with an incredible sense of emptiness -- a lack of passion. Feeling like a robot quickly overtook the excitement of depositing that first paycheck.8 \- **David Hassell**

So what could be responsible for the phenomenal success of the RAT RACE? How did an ideology grow into an empire with a far reaching influence on humanity? I often wonder about how humanity could be so blind to the Rat Race conspiracy. How could she be actively involved in building an institution that has so much enslaved her? This is rather unfortunate, but I will attempt to help you by unraveling the truth. I hope you pay attention.

The FAMILY (especially Parents) and the SCHOOL have been largely instrumental to the growth of the RAT RACE Empire in ways that will surprise you. These two institutions form the bedrock of society but they also ensure the sustainability of the RAT RACE. You will understand better as we go on.

## PARENTS and the RAT RACE

If children grew up according to early indications, we should have nothing but geniuses.- **Johann Wolfgang von Goethe**

Parents play an active role in building the rat race empire. They have been the primary coaches who prepare and usher each generation into the rat race. Despite the good hearts of most parents, their contribution to the Rat Race has largely been a result of ignorance and conditioning. So you can't really blame them. But the truth has to be told if humanity must overcome the Rat Race.

In building an empire with a lasting influence through the ages, the Rat Race needed messengers who would spread the ideology, even passing it from one generation to another. Parents were the most qualified for this task. Ironically, while there was no formal recruitment for this assignment, it turned out that most parents in every generation have participated actively in this work. They chose the Rat Race by default.

Raising generations of 'Rat-Racers'

Since babies don't come with manuals on how to raise them, parents tend to rely on whatever manual they found. Often times, their manual is a product of norms, their experiences, knowledge, assumptions, and religious beliefs. Parents generally know what is best for their children but sometimes they assume that what worked for them will always work for their children. They assume that the life principles and practices handed over by their parents, or prevalent in their times could be transferred directly to their children irrespective of the current realities. Unfortunately, this isn't always true.

One of such principles that parents have given to children for generations is the 3G CODE. It says, **GO to school, GET a good grade, and GET a good job.** You definitely have heard about this in one form or another. It is what they were told too and they believed they were giving you good advice. They meant well but they just didn't know they were preparing you for the Rat Race.

Every parent dreams of raising children who would be successful in their endeavours, acquire wealth, and do good in society. The 3G Code seemed like the magic formular for achieving this. Back then a good job guaranteed a steady flow of income which enabled one to live comfortably. By getting high grades, one had a better chance at getting the good jobs since academic performance was the primary measure for judging intelligence and ability. So parents invested heavily in education to prepare their children for good jobs and children kept trying to meet up with the standards demanded by the workplace. This formular worked for some time, as the best students in class actually got the best jobs and almost likely the best opportunities in life. It worked because

  * Jobs were available. Most people had jobs waiting for them by the time they finished school.

  * The human population was smaller so it was easier to create jobs for as many people as were interested. Also it meant there were fewer people competing for available resources and opportunities.

  * Schooling wasn't as widespread as now. So the few who had the opportunity could easily ride through and get the good jobs. The competition wasn't as tough as now with majority of people going to school.

  * Those who made good grades were really good. Most times they proved to be more intelligent and hard working than their peers even outside school.

  * The workplace was simply looking for hard working people. Even if one wasn't intelligent, as long as one was very hard working and loyal, he would be able to get a job and climb up the corporate ladder. In other words, the basic knowledge, skills and morals gotten from school were enough preparation for the workplace.

But change happened and the structures that supported the success of the 3G Code began to fall apart. Unfortunately, Parents couldn't see the changes and continued to pass on the ideology from one generation to another. Since the 3G Code promised that good jobs will always be available as long as there are good grades, most children were conditioned to be job seekers. They left school and began to wait on the government or the workplace to give them jobs. So the supply of job seekers kept increasing well above the supply of jobs. Good jobs became scarce and the competition for available jobs became fiercer. Also the assumptions about good grades began to prove wrong. Good grades were no longer sufficient in ascertaining intelligence and potential, and its ability to guarantee good jobs began to diminish as several other factors began to influence the job process. The 3G Code became outdated but many parents kept compelling their children to follow it religiously, even till today. The 3G Code became one of the RAT RACE's most successful campaigns.

The impact of the 3G Code includes:

I) It fostered a dependent mentality

There are few things as sensitive as molding a child's thinking because whatever is continually emphasized soon becomes a belief that influences the course of the child's life. By emphasizing the 3G Code, parents were saying to their children, "There is a JOB waiting for you out there. Prepare for it. Just do well in school and the world will give it to you". It seemed the responsibility of others to provide work for them. Even with so many vacuums or needs around them, they are hardly able to as an avenue for work because of this dependent mindset. Many are simply waiting to be hired; waiting to supply labour where needed so they can get some money to meet their needs.

ii) It emphasized working for money

Many children grew up believing the essence of work is to get money because it was all about the paycheck at the end of the day. When money becomes the motivation for doing work, work loses its meaning, fulfillment becomes elusive, and potential under-utilized. With the emphasis on getting a good job with good pay, the 3G Code portrayed work as the only channel to getting money. It kept most children ignorant about other avenues to gathering money, so they were confined to a continuous, often lifelong search for JOBs that guarantee the most pay.

iii) It emphasized security rather than freedom

Before man lays a whole world laden with infinite resources, opportunities and work which are often disguised so only those who dare to explore and go the extra mile get to conquer it. Unfortunately, most men have this bad habit of settling. They settle for what is available, what is given, what is known or convenient; they settle for mediocrity and never make much out of life.

Why do I say this? People didn't just search for good jobs; they wanted jobs they could keep, or jobs that could keep them because of the assurance of a steady supply of money through salary. This need for security was born mainly out of the fear of not having money. As always, fear pushes people to find safety nets, which sometimes turn out to be cages in the real sense. So the more people pursued security the more their enslavement to money; the lesser their financial freedom and the lesser the freedom to take risks and explore the world of work.

The solution to adult problems tomorrow depends on large measure upon how our children grow up today. - **Margaret Mead**

There is another aspect of parents' contribution to the Rat Race Empire. Most parents try to joggle a lot of things – marriage, family, career, finance, religious commitments and many more – all at the same time. So it is not uncommon for some aspects of their lives to experience neglect because of the failure in maintaining a balance. Unfortunately, one area that often suffers is their true work.

Most of you, upon your arrival on earth, meet your parents already immersed in the Rat Race. Many had given up their dreams, buried their talents, and ignored their passions as they worked for money to take care of the family and perhaps leave an inheritance for the children in the future. With the growing cost of education, today's parents are forced to work even harder to earn the money needed to provide high quality education for their children, which according to the 3G Code, will give them access to good jobs. It almost seems like they always have to sacrifice their own fulfillment for the family's wellbeing. This sacrifice is out of love and is only intended for good, but it has costly implications for humanity. How do I mean?

iv) The cycle of dependence between parents and children

The parent spends his life working for money to take care of the child. The child becomes an adult and in turn takes care of the parent(s) who is likely to have retired. The child follows the 3G Code like his parent did; working for money to meet his needs, raise a family and also arm his child with an education in preparation for the rat race. He expects that his child will pay back the sacrifice by taking care of him when he retires in the coming years. This cycle goes on and on as one generation after another uses family obligations as an excuse to stay in the rat race. Parents justify this deferment or even total neglect of their true work as an inevitable sacrifice for the success of their children. But it need not be.

v) The dearth of examples

One reason why the rat race cycle goes on from one generation to another is that few children see their parents pursue their true work. All they know is that dad and mum has to go out and work in order to make money to take care of the home. It gives them the impression that irrespective of their dreams, passion, or the nudging in their heart to do something great with their lives, they are supposed to get a good grade in school, go out and get a good job or work for money. Like their parents, they hope they will be able to pursue their true work later, after they must have made enough money. But it becomes more difficult to do so as they grow older because of their financial obligations.

Truly, raising children comes with great sacrifices. A lot of parents may not have the resources they need to give their children a good start, so they are forced to do anything to survive. This is understandable. It will be unfair to blame parents who abandoned their dreams in order to give their children a future. They did what they thought best at the time, and they should to be appreciated. But with knowledge and proper planning, today and tomorrow's parents can do better.

  * Whether parent or child, everyone deserves a fulfilled life. So parents should not continue to neglect their true work.

  * There are so many problems in the world today that every gift, talent, idea, potential loaded in each individual should be deployed in making the world a better place. Parents can no longer serve their children alone, but the world at large.

  * The cost of taking care of children and the family will always be on the rise. So rather than hop from one job to another to squeeze in more pay, it might be better for parents to find out how to profit from doing the work they love.

  * People should be reasonable and disciplined by having only as many children as they can conveniently take care of, so as to avoid unnecessary financial pressures.

  * More than ever before, children must find the inspiration to explore and deploy their potentials through the example set by their parents.

In conclusion, the times have changed and old beliefs have to be replaced with new ones. The 3G Code is outdated, so is the idea that parents have to sacrifice their true work and then depend on their children for happiness and livelihood after they must have retired. And finally, parents must take up the responsibility to teach their children about money. They need not be enslaved to it.

## The SCHOOL and the RAT RACE

Most people are programmed early in life to "Go to school and get a job." School is about finding a job... It is not about finding your life's path. - **Robert Kiyosaki**

If trees and animals could speak, wouldn't they weep rather than say a word? They will weep for what you have made of yourselves and the earth because you only know actions but not implications. You should weep too, especially for your younger generation. You should weep for the way they will turn out. They often talk about their ideas, plans and dreams for the future. They are lively, optimistic and adventurous. They seek self expression and actualization. They give no doubt that they want the best of life.

But it's funny how most of them will eventually turn out. As soon as they leave school they will not pursue those lofty dreams, great ideas or laudable causes, but will spend the most of their adult life pursuing survival, serving money, trying to meet needs, and not finding fulfillment – what a tragedy. Most of them will live mediocre lives irrespective of how much resources they gather because they would not actualize their full potential. Thanks to the RAT RACE. But this is neither a prophecy nor a curse. It's the bitter reality and it is nothing new.

We mean well. We let our kids down easy. We tell ourselves that we are realistic. We demand that students have a trade to fall back on, an assembly-line job available just in case the silly dreams don't come true. And then, fearing heartbreak, we push them to bury the dream and focus on just the job... A job with security and co-workers and instructions and deniability. And when the job doesn't come? When all the dues are paid and for nothing? Ouch. - **Seth Godin, 'Stop Stealing dreams'**

Almost every institution has a formal training platform that is aimed at grooming the younger generation in order to sustain its existence. For centuries, the SCHOOL has served that purpose for the RAT RACE. Although, 'Rat Race 1o1' has never and will never be taught in schools, yet, schools have done a commendable job in ensuring the sustainability of the Rat Race over these centuries. No other platform could have done better, especially considering that almost every human must pass through its walls. But since the school system wasn't established by the Rat Race to consciously propagate her cause, neither was the School established by man for the Rat Race, how did the collaboration come about? Here's the truth that you've never been told.

As man developed, it became increasingly necessary to become more organized in all his endeavours. The answer to this was to create institutions which were saddled with the responsibility to help organize various aspects of human activities. They had defined objectives and were accountable to the society. One of the critical areas men sought to organize was the raising of children. Man discovered a huge need for education to prepare children for life. To fill this vacuum, the school was established. The SCHOOL was established to nurture, culture and equip children to both fit and be useful to themselves and society. It involved the transfer of values, tradition, knowledge, and skills.

Etymologically, the word "Education" is derived from the latin education ("A breeding, a bringing up, a rearing") from educo ("educate, train") which is related to the homonym educo ("lead forth, take out, raise up, erect") from e ("from, out of") and duco ("lead, conduct")9

The SCHOOL was established based on certain assumptions about the child, what purpose education should achieve and how children should be educated. These assumptions varied widely depending on who found the school. These assumptions determined the philosophy, purpose and program of the school. The major problem is that many of these assumptions are not valid but hardly did the society realize this. These assumptions led to the creation of school systems that fail to achieve the original purpose of education but rather help in building the RAT RACE.

True, school founders and administrators have genuine intentions. They deserve to be applauded for responding to the need for education in the society. Also schools don't exist in isolation. They have been largely influenced by the ever increasing demands of society, especially parents and the economy. Since the human society has been largely ignorant about the workings of the RAT RACE, it is no surprise that many of the school systems they create is channeled, although unknowingly, towards the preparation for the RAT RACE. Despite this fact, the school has played a pivotal role in the development of society. While I do not intend to under-estimate that role, it is important you know some of these assumptions and their implications.

## ASSUMPTIONS AND IMPLICATIONS

1) The focus on raising workers

Education itself is a putting off, a postponement; we are told to work hard to get good results. Why? So we can get a good job. What is a good job? One that pays well. Oh. And that's it? All this suffering, merely so that we can earn a lot of money, which, even if we manage it, will not solve our problems anyway? It's a tragically limited idea of what life is all about. **\- Tom Hodgkinson**

The need for workers and the creation of jobs was earlier explained but I will revisit it.

Initially, work was simple, mostly centered on the activities of a few individuals. But as work became complex, there was the need to create systems by which more work could be carried out effectively. These brought about jobs, that is, avenues for more people to work. A job was a contract – individuals were expected to deploy their 'tools' in adding value or providing a service in exchange for reward (mostly financial rewards). Since jobs guaranteed a regular flow of money (salary), it became sought after by everyone. And it was always within reach as far as one had the right qualification. So schools focused on helping children get the needed qualifications for jobs because that was what parents wanted. They simply prepared children for the workplace.

Schools paid less attention on identifying and sharpening the child's tools as well as helping him to identify the work that best suited him. Instead they were more concerned about equipping him with the 'tools' – knowledge and skills - that were supposedly needed in the workplace. The concern of parents and the schools was how to make the child competitive enough for the available jobs. The Child was only allowed to pursue his dreams and passion as a hobby (provided it doesn't interfere with his academics) or later after he must have spent a number of years building a great 'career' or resume, and making enough money. So children grew up not understanding the concept of true work. They hardly understood that there was a purpose for their unique abilities, passions... and that these 'tools' were suited for some particular work; That work was the key to their greatest fulfillment, prosperity and impact rather than merely an avenue to make money; That their role in the society is not just to provide labour but to fill a vacuum; That they were not born to work for money. If only they were told, but most parents didn't know any better because this is how they were raised too. They had become used to the Rat Race. They simply passed on the 3G Code from one generation to another without knowing its implication.

Then, there was another problem. As schools continued to prepare children for the workplace, the population of job seekers kept increasing such that the supply of jobs could not catch up with the demand for it. Very few people were pursuing their true work because the usual question was, 'What job is available for me?' rather than, 'what work am I suited for?' This scarcity further drove people in pursuit of survival. Many people were left with no choice than to settle for whatever job they found, even with low reward and dignity. So, sometimes even the training they got from school found little or no use.

Education became stunted as grades and certificates became more important than the learning process. Of course, people kept finding short-cuts (cramming, exam malpractice, and other vice) to getting the grades and certificates, so much that their value soon began to diminish in the workplace.

As though to add insult to injury, the workplace kept changing, hence demanding for new skills from job seekers, but the school was not able to adapt fast enough to meet these changing needs. So, it remains far behind, unable to catch up with current realities, equipping the youth with outdated tools. By the time many young people leave school, their passions are eroded, talents crude and strengths mis-matched. And when they get to the workplace, they are unable to add value. What a tragedy!!!

2)The misconception about intelligence

Everybody is a genius. But if you judge a fish by its ability to climb a tree, it will spend its whole life believing that it is stupid. - **Albert Einstein**

No matter how much demand there may be in business for specialist learning found in universities, in reality, it is a fact that the smartest kid in school will not necessarily become the most gifted person in society. - **Akio Morita, Co-Founder, SONY**

The general misconception about intelligence has brought about a great injustice to human potential. In the bid to raise workers that will compete favorably for available jobs, schools focused on a narrow definition of intelligence – academic prowess. The ability to take in what is being taught in the classroom, interpret it and perform excellently in tests or exams (whether or not it is adequately understood) was considered the evidence of intelligence or giftedness, and as such, a determinant of performance in the workplace. This kind of intelligence was celebrated, rewarded and considered one of the greatest achievements at school (That explains the 'Get good grade' part of the 3G Code). So Parents and schools invest so much in preparing students to make high grades.

As earlier said, everyone is born to add value to the earth by meeting needs. Each one is also born with a unique mix of talents, personality strengths, mental ability, interests, instincts... (Tools) that are best maximized when deployed in adding value or doing one's true work. No doubt, every child needs help in discovering, developing, and deploying their tools. But the over-emphasis on academic intelligence has contributed to a large extent to the neglect of many children's tools.

For example,

  * The over emphasis on academics alone creates the impression for children that their other 'intelligences' are not as important.

  * Children that don't perform so well academically are prone to having low self esteem as the 'brilliant' ones are constantly portrayed as more gifted and desirable to society while they are not so good. This could affect their self esteem so much that they are not even able to perform well in their unique areas of strength.

  * The strengths of many children are largely under-developed as they are under pressure to focus more on their classroom work while the time spent on their strengths is sometimes considered a distraction.

  * Exams, quizzes, and tests provide platforms for the expression of the academic genius. But for many children who are gifted in other areas, they are hardly given platforms for expression of their intelligence, which means they are undiscovered, uncelebrated, and hardly given a chance to show what they can do.

Hence, by the time most children are through with school, their tools are largely buried or even completely lost. Isn't it unfortunate that many with unique tools or intelligences that would have found relevance in meeting certain needs or solving certain problems are never given a chance? After working so hard (or cheating and cramming their way) to make that good grade, they begin the chase for jobs, and then realize that there are a million other people like them who had followed the same formular (the 3G Code). The supply of jobs can't meet up with the demand for it. Even when they finally get a job, in some corner of their hearts will linger the feeling of being incomplete; the knowing that they could be and do more than this; the realization that their potentials aren't fully tapped; the regret that something valuable had been abandoned by the wayside which could have been harnessed. Very few muster the courage to be true to themselves and hold on to their tools, working at it till they get a platform for expression, while juggling it with their academics.

FOR YOUR INFORMATION

The Animal School

Once upon a time, the animals decided they should do something meaningful to meet the problems of the new world. So they organized a school. They adopted an activity curriculum of running, climbing, swimming and flying. To make it easier to administer the curriculum, all the animals took all the subjects.

The duck was excellent at swimming; in fact, better than his instructor. But he made only passing grades in flying, and was very poor at running. Since he was slow in running, he had to drop swimming and stay after school to practice running. This caused his web feet to be badly worn, so that he was only average in swimming. But average was quite acceptable so nobody worried about that - except the duck.

The rabbit started at the top of his class in running, but developed a nervous twitch in his leg muscles because of so much make-up work in swimming.

The squirrel was excellent in climbing, but he encountered constant frustration in flying class because his teacher made him start from the ground up instead of from the treetop down. He developed "charlie horses" from overexertion, and so only got a C in climbing and a D in running.

The eagle was a problem child and was severely disciplined for being a non-conformist. In climbing he beat all the others to the top of the tree, but insisted on using his way to get there.

At the end of the year, an abnormal eel that could swim exceedingly well, and also run, climb, and fly a little, had the highest average, and he was valedictorian. The prairie dogs stayed out of school and fought the tax levy because the administration would not add digging and burrowing to the curriculum.10

Note:

  * An education system where one size (same curriculum, same teaching method and standards e.t.c) is expected to fit all (rigid demands) will never be able to maximize the TOOLS of each child. There is no one correct way to educate all children.

  * A school system could harness or hamper a child's unique strengths.

  * Sometimes people fail in school not because they are dull but because they are gifted differently.

  * Many parents may be making a mistake in demanding that their children conform to the same educational standards or system.

MY ACADEMIC JOURNEY: I was always in the limelight for my academic performance throughout my primary, secondary and tertiary education. I earned respect in and outside school, won prizes, inspired and taught many, won the heart of several ladies, and most importantly, made my family proud. Some of my feats include: 1st position, first entrance exam into Faith Academy (1999), 4th best in the graduating set in secondary school (2004), 9 distinctions in WAEC (2004), Co-Best in Mathematics and best in Further-Mathematics (2004), Excellent performance in Cambridge IGSCE (2003), Graduated with a second class upper (4.2 CGPA) from the University despite being labeled a 'non-academic student (2008), Performed excellently in GMAT exam for postgraduate admission in USA (2008), among others. I am not here to hype myself but to share some lessons I learnt over the course of my academic journey.

**1)** Despite my impressive academic resume, I have always felt that it was unfair to judge human potential, intelligence, employability, or leadership ability using academic performance. Aside interest and hard work, heredity and gifting has a lot to do with my impressive academic performance. The more I grow, the more I see the similarities between my father and I. I took his name, baritone voice, love for study and deep thinking, writing talent (Without consciously planning it, my Father had earlier written a book called 'The Work of Life' on this subject), analytical ability, academic genius and much more. Right from my childhood, I have always admired his academic and career achievements. In fact, I chose to study Accounting after him. There is no doubt that heredity has been a key influence in my academic pursuits. In addition to heredity, I believe that I am also gifted in the area of academics. While in the university, I began to lose interest in academics so I paid less attention. I was so bored that I always dozed off in class, hardly did assignments, only picked up my books to read when exams approached, yet, I was still able to make above average grades. While reading for exams, I could never read for an hour at a stretch without distractions, but I had the ability to glance through course materials and be able to remember key points which I amplified in the exam hall. Of course, as soon as I stepped out of the hall, I lost memory of whatever I had read. That is how I got the name 'Non-academic student' because while others spent hours reading course materials, I would only read for a short time, and then go back to writing or researching other issues of interest, and yet, I would score high grades.

**2)** I discovered in school that despite my high academic performance, I wasn't more intelligent than others. I found other people not so good academically performing excellently in other areas that made me admire them. For example, I wasn't good at sports or computer games (I'm glad I was able to learn table tennis during NYSC), cooking, interacting with new people especially ladies (I was so shy but things are different now), business (I always believed that the entrepreneurial spirit wasn't for me until I had an awakening during NYSC), creating things with my hands and so on. I was simply married to reading, thinking and writing. While I have benefitted immensely from using my strengths, by realizing that academics wasn't everything, I have been able to develop other competencies to complement my strengths.

**3)** I still can't forget the first time I saw a book, 'Rich Dad Poor Dad by Robert Kiyosaki' with a friend of mine. He was the head boy; someone I admired for his charisma and enterprising spirit although he was not as good as I was in academics. It was the first time it dawned on me that there were other things to learn other than my class subjects. I was in a good private school and consistently making good grades. To me, that was the education I needed to compete favourably in the workplace. Focusing on academic intelligence made me have a narrow view and experience of education. But that singular event challenged me to embrace all-round personal development. Since then I began to observe that many other academic geniuses like me had a narrow focus, focusing all their time and energy on passing exams and maintaining their academic record. They were simply following an old formular. Academic success is good, but it is no longer compulsory. Personal development in a broad spectrum of knowledge and skill sets is more important to cope in our fast changing world today.

**4)** There is one event while in secondary school that I find hard to forget. It was in my first term at the new school where I was to spend the last three years of my secondary education. There was a young inventor's exhibition program as part of the founder's day celebration. Being only used to intellectual activity relating to academics, I decided to partner with a friend of mine to build something. I was overwhelmed with excitement because it was the first time I would be involved in such kind of activity. But this excitement soon faded when we started a fire while experimenting and the project had to be suspended. The creative works that emerged from the students during that event was so amazing. But that was the last time the young inventor's exhibition program held. Many of those young inventors never came to the limelight anymore because there was no longer a platform for their creative expression. There was no avenue for them to be celebrated for their unique strengths. (This is one of the reasons why Africa is backward in science and technology.) Emphasis was more on academics and sports. While I was a celebrity because of my academic genius, many of these young inventors performed only averagely and some even poorly in academics, hence, to an external observer it would seem there was not much remarkable about them. I met some of them in the university and they still seemed ordinary, still average in class, undiscovered. One of them might have ended up as one of Africa's greatest scientists or inventors with the right support and training.

3) Emphasis on traditional jobs / careers

It is an iron law of education that rigid systems produce rigid people, and flexible systems produce flexible people. \- **Roland Meighan**

Because of the crave for security, children go through school to prepare for traditional jobs or careers where income is guaranteed. These traditional careers or jobs (Accountants, Engineers, Doctors, Lawyers e.t.c.) are in the realm of 'obvious' work (Remember we talked about two kinds of vacuums).

Children are not really trained or taught how to identify vacuums hence they are hardly able to see the vast opportunities for work and wealth that exists all around them. That is why majority of them leave school, end up looking for jobs, and where they don't get jobs, they sit at home for months, even years, not doing much, not making the most of their tools, waiting and praying for the job to come, because it is the only thing they have been trained to search for. Many are so engrossed in a traditional job or career path that they even fail to realize when their work is becoming extinct. The preparation for traditional jobs and careers narrows their thinking and scope. Many people's potentials and work is limited to a course of study despite a boundless world of work that lies before them. Very few of them are able to make remarkable contributions to the earth because of their limited ability to identify, anticipate and meet the needs on the earth. Yet, by identifying the earth's needs, some people are discovering new work, finding new opportunities and charting career paths that never before existed.

FOR YOUR INFORMATION

New jobs for new times

It is amazing how much our world has changed as a result of technology and the internet. Sometimes these changes are so fast that we forget that humans are the drivers behind it. The advancements in technology are the result of a few people responding to or anticipating the world's needs. Sometimes, as they seize opportunities, they create new problems. These problems create work for some others. So a combination of change and challenges keep throwing up opportunities for work and wealth.

A few years ago, Facebook and Twitter did not even exist, but now people with social media skills are in high demand. Today, we hear about jobs or careers that didn't even exist ten years ago. Some of them, as pointed out in an article by Peter Harris11 include,

1. Online community manager

2. Mobile applications developer

3. Search engine optimization specialist

4. Sustainability expert

5. Web content strategist

6. Elder-care services coordinator

7. Yoga / Zumba / Pilates instructor

8. Big data analyst

9. Privacy officer

10. User Experience Designer

Many of these jobs are not even taught in the school, so why do people limit their work to traditional courses they studied in the school? When a man is asked the question, 'What can you do?' he should have more to say than just what he studied in school or what he is currently doing in a job.

MY UNCONVENTIONAL CAREER PATH: Five years ago when I left the university, I didn't have the slightest clue about what I would be doing today. My eyes were set on the traditional career path. I had hoped to get a good job as an Accountant, do my professionals while climbing the corporate ladder. Spend five to ten years in one or two companies and then resign to start something of my own after achieving some professional milestones and accumulating enough money. This seemed like a good formular for me. However, the vacuums that caught my attention revolved around human capital development, enlightenment, youth empowerment, improving values, and so on. So I thought, I would pursue a career as an accountant first and then someday find my way back to work in those areas. I had heard nothing about freelancing or social entrepreneurship. But by a combination of providence, challenges and learning, I found a different path and I am having fun in it. I celebrate my classmates who are in key accounting positions, but I am not under pressure to compete with anyone because I am dancing to a different drumbeat.

4) Not Teaching About Money

Millions of people are living in fear because they followed conventional wisdom: Go to school, get a job, work hard, save money, buy a house, get out of debt, and invest for the long term in a well-diversified portfolio of mutual funds. Many people who followed this financial prescription are not sleeping at night. They need a new plan. Had they sought out a little financial education, they might not be entangled in this mess. - **Robert Kiyosaki**

The only thing most people learn about money in school is to work for it and the only thing that most people learn about work in school is that they have to work to be able to meet their needs. Assumptions and misconceptions abound where there is no knowledge and understanding. So the absence of the true knowledge about money and work in the citadels of learning, have compelled humanity to remain perpetually in the RAT RACE. Again, certain assumptions are responsible for the failure of schools to teach on these all important subjects. These assumptions are unfounded. For example,

  * Children should not learn about money so they don't become materialistic.

  * Why teach about money since the school is already providing the platform (education, which guarantees a job) for making money

  * What is most important about work is for children to cultivate the value of diligence. As far as they are hard working, loyal and obedient, they can excel in whatever work they find themselves in.

But don't just blame the school for these lapses. The school has never known any better because the regulators, owners and administrators are products of the same society that is largely buried in the RAT RACE. But by making this confession I am doing you a favour that you will never be able to repay in a lifetime. I hope you pass on this knowledge not only in the schools but in the religious houses and homes.

5) Reinforcing the competition

If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away. - **Henry David Thoreau**

Children begin to practice 'rat-racing' right from school where they are grouped into classes by their ages. Each one tries to outshine the other in every way possible. Parents don't want their children to be left out especially in academics so they put much pressure on the child to be among the best in class. The child is constantly compared with his age mates, classmates, peers in the neighborhood or even the church. Most times, they ignore the unique strengths or interests of the child and seek that he competes with others in one area, such as academics that society places premium on. The child grows up with this mindset and leaves school, racing for a good job. He sets his eye on building an impressive resume, still trying to be ahead of others, moving from one job to another based on financial considerations. He sacrifices his fulfillment in a bid to be ahead of others. So he keeps running, working harder for more money, so he can afford the lifestyle that society places premium on, one of luxury and glamour.

Competition is good in certain scenarios, but when it comes to life, there is no competition or comparison with any other because each one has his own path. Your tools, your preparation and your true work are all unique.

6) Curbing the child's natural yearnings

It is among the commonplaces of education that we often first cut off the living root and then try to replace its natural functions by artificial means. Thus we suppress the child's curiosity and then when he lacks a natural interest in learning he is offered special coaching for his scholastic difficulties. - **Alice Duer Miller**

Children are born with a natural curiosity. They keep asking questions, wanting to know the 'why's, 'what's, and 'how's. They don't accept things as they are but want to know for themselves. They are restless, full of energy and activity, always wanting to explore. They want to touch, feel, and experiment with the world around them. They are naturally creative and imaginative. Very early they are seen manipulating things around them, trying to come up with something new. They are playful, spending so much time and energy on activities they enjoy. Children are unique beings, self-motivated learners, good team players, happy workers, and great dreamers. These are in-built mechanisms that should provide clues to parents and adults to help guide the children towards discovering themselves, harnessing their potentials and preparing for the work that best suits them.

But children come out of school with most of these innate abilities and expressions suppressed. More emphasis is placed on knowing rather than enquiry, proving and applying. Order and conformity is mandated while the adventurous tendencies are contained. Very little room is given to play as they are continually bombarded with classes, assignments, lessons both at home and in the school. The method and environment of transmitting knowledge is often boring hence killing the desire to learn. In the end, many schools become mere factories producing 'defective' young adults.

## THE LOOMING EDUCATION CRISIS

Let us think of education as the means of developing our greatest abilities, because in each of us there is a private hope and dream which, fulfilled, can be translated into benefit for everyone and greater strength for our nation. **\- John F. Kennedy**

I see that there is a big problem on your hands. Children aren't learning. They are in school but their hearts are absent. They leave school with not much to show and they are unable to bring value to the society as expected. But, I do not blame them to some extent. They are realizing the truth that their parents and school system have failed to see; the truth that the times have changed and old rules can no longer be followed. Among other things, today's young people are discovering that

  * The once popular formular for career success and financial security – 3G Code (Go to school – Get good grade / certificate – Get good job / High salary – Make money – More school / degree / certificate – Get promotion / higher paying job – Make much more money) – can no longer be relied upon.

  * Good grades alone no longer guarantee good jobs, thanks to the high rate of unemployment and the changing demands of the workplace. Again Schools continue to adjust their programs in order to raise youths who can meet up with the changing demands of employers, hence, further confirming the fact that their main focus is on producing workers for the economy. The focus is not so much on how to liberate or harness the vast talents, strengths, energies in these youth but on equipping them with knowledge and skills believed to be needed for jobs.

  * They can make impact, find fulfillment and make much money even without having good grades in school. It is really going to be hard convincing them to study because the reasons they have been given to study (to make good grades) are no longer tenable.

  * The school is not adequately equipping them for the world. New opportunities, jobs and careers are being created that require an entirely different set of skills than is being taught in the traditional school.

There is an impending rebellion against the school system unless it is completely reinvented soon. Already, young people are disconnecting from learning. They are in school physically but their minds aren't there. It is most likely that things will continue to deteriorate even as the youth are getting more distracted by the day. But here are a few suggestions for improving your school systems:

1) Find a new purpose for education beyond preparing children for the workplace. Children need a new reason to learn.

2) Education should be personalized. Focus education on who they are, what interests them, what talents they have, how they learn best and so on.

3) Education must adapt to changing times. Find a new way to educate today's children.

4) Meeting needs or solving problems is an art that needs to be learnt. It should be a key emphasis of the School system. The earth's problems should be developed into case studies, practice questions or student projects so they begin to develop that competence early. Start emphasizing problem solving rather than job seeking.

5) In building the capacities of young people, there should be a balance between harnessing inborn abilities and developing skills needed for the workplace.

6) Teach children the truth about work, wants, and jobs. In other words, share the confessions of the Rat Race with them.

## A WORD TO THE YOUTH

It's very easy to just take that diploma...and go chasing after the big house and the large salary and the nice suits and all the other things that our money culture says you should buy. But I hope you don't. Focusing your life solely on making a buck shows a poverty of ambition. It asks too little of yourself. And it will leave you unfulfilled. So don't let people talk you into doing the safe thing. Listen to what's inside of you and decide what it is that you care about so much that you're willing to risk it all.  \- **Barack Obama**

Should you now kick against the school or condemn parents because of the roles they play in the Rat Race? No. Man has been largely ignorant of the truth about the Rat Race. Now that you know the truth, your journey of discovery begins. I have some questions for you, although you might need support from others in answering them.

  * What kind of life do you want? Are you satisfied with survival alone or do you value fulfillment?

  * What are your tools, that is, your talents, passion, potentials, expert knowledge (things or issues you know so well about that people often seek your opinion on), personality strengths and so on? What line of work best suits your tools?

  * How can you channel your learning to develop your tools as well as explore the areas of work that fit those tools?

I know you have a lot of questions to ask but I will answer only three right now.

1) Is there a guarantee that by pursuing one's true work, one will have plenty money?

I can't guarantee you great wealth in the pursuit of your true work, because wealth is a function of several factors, key among which is the understanding of money. But I can guarantee that you will be comfortable and fulfilled.

2) Does one have any other option than to pursue survival in such trying times as this?

There is nothing wrong with pursuing survival or striving to earn a living. In fact is inevitable for almost everyone. So, it's not a crime to be in the RAT RACE. However, survival shouldn't be a lifetime pursuit. Besides, pursuing money doesn't guarantee that you will be rich. Knowledge and proper planning is key to financial freedom. So why should you waste the bulk of your most productive years running in a cycle? Pursue survival if you have to, but plan and then summon courage to pursue the work that you were called to do.

3) How did I know all these things?

I know because I am the voice of the Rat Race. Although you can't see me, my handwriting has been on the wall throughout history. If you look well enough and think deeply on what I have shared, you will be able to understand these things and even know more.

HOW TRUE?

I see it every day, kids who people have dismissed as' dumb in maths" or "uninterested in science" or "non readers" doing incredible things in those same exact areas because they were finally allowed to start something they were already interested in.'- **Dennis Littky**

What usually happens in the educational process is that the faculties are dulled, overloaded, stuffed and paralyzed so that by the time most people are mature they have lost their innate capabilities. **\- R. Buckminster Fuller**

Whatever an education is, it should make you a unique individual, not a conformist; it should furnish you with an original spirit with which to tackle the big challenges. It should allow you find values which will be your road map through life; it should make you spiritually rich, a person who loves whatever you are doing, wherever you are, whomever you are with; it should teach you what is important, how to live and how to die. – **John Taylor Gatto**

At the end of the assembly line, there is no guarantee that the diploma signifies competence, knowledge or maturity. **\- Wendy Priesnitz**

Education is not only instilling knowledge, but awakening the enormous creative potential that lies within each one of us, enabling us to develop to our fullest potential and better contribute to the societies in which we live. - **Dr. Frederico Major** , the Director-General of UNESCO, 1993

One had to cram all this stuff into one's mind for the examinations, whether one liked it or not. This coercion had such a deterring effect on me that, after I had passed the final examination, I found the consideration of any scientific problems distasteful to me for an entire year. **\- Albert Einstein**

The mind is not a vessel to be filled but a fire to be kindled. **\- Plutarch**

The fact is that given the challenges we face, education doesn't need to be reformed -- it needs to be transformed. The key to this transformation is not to standardize education, but to personalize it, to build achievement on discovering the individual talents of each child, to put students in an environment where they want to learn and where they can naturally discover their true passions.- **Ken Robinson** , 'The Element: How Finding Your Passion Changes Everything'

The anxiety children feel at constantly being tested, their fear of failure, punishment, and disgrace, severely reduces their ability both to perceive and to remember, and drives them away from the material being studied into strategies for fooling teachers into thinking they know what they really don't know. - **John Holt**

We are faced with the paradoxical fact that education has become one of the chief obstacles to intelligence and freedom of thought. **\- Bertrand Russell**

Academic qualifications are important and so is financial education. They're both important and schools are forgetting one of them. **\- Robert Kiyosaki**

Education, particularly in the large universities, has become primarily concerned with subject matter rather than the development of the individual student. **\- Julius A. Stratton, at 'MIT' 1957**

No one wants a good education. Everyone wants a good degree. **\- Lee Rudolph**

Education is not merely a means for earning a living or an instrument for the acquisition of wealth. It is an initiation into life of spirit, a training of the human soul in the pursuit of truth and the practice of justice. **\- Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit**

************

## ACTIVITY

  * Revisit the fable of the Animal School, what lessons did you learn about education and human potential?

  * Now that you have seen the role of the school and parents in the rat race, write down the changes that you need to make especially with regard to raising your own children.

###########

# Reference

1 – Owoyemi, F (2004). _The work of Life,_ Providence, RI: Captone Ministries Incorporated

2 – Beattie, A. (2010). _The history of money: from barter to bank notes_ Retrieved from <http://www.investopedia.com/articles/07/roots_of_money.asp>

3 – Gizmodo (2013). _Trevor Baylis: From Inventor's Bliss to Patently Broke_ Retrieved from http://m.gizmodo.co.uk/2013/03/trevor-baylis-from-inventors-bliss-to-patently-broke/

4 - Gray, R. (2013). _Trevo Baylis: I've wound up broke despite inventions_ Retrieved from  http://www.telegraph.co.uk/science/science-news/9875026/Trevor-Baylis-Ive-wound-up-broke-despite-inventions.html

5 – Wikipedia (2013), _Trevor Baylis_ Retrieved from www.wikipedia.org/wiki/trevor_baylis

6 – Gulati, D. (2012). _The Top Five Career Regrets_ Retrieved from <http://blogs.hbr.org/cs/2012/12/the_top_five_career_regrets.html>

7 – Ware, B. (2012). _Top 5 Regrets of the Dying_ Retrieved from  http://www.huffingtonpost.com/bronnie-ware/top-5-regrets-of-the-dyin_b_1220965.html

8 – Hassel, D. (2013). _Working for Money Shows Poverty of Ambition_ Retrieved from  http://www.huffingtonpost.com/david-hassell/working-for-money-shows-p_b_3639656.html

9 – Wikipedia (2013). _Education_ Retrieved from <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/education>

10 – Raevis, G. H. (1883). _The Animal School: The administration of the school curriculum with references to individual differences (Ebook)_ Retrieved from  http://madalen.files.wordpress.com/2009/09/14037268-the-animal-school.pdf

11 - Harris, P. (2013). _Emerging opportunity: ten in-demand jobs that didn't exist ten years ago_ Retrieved from  http://www.workopolis.com/content/advice/article/emerging-opportunity-ten-in-demand-jobs-that-didnt-exist-ten-years-ago/

12 - Obama, B (2006). _Our past, our future and vision for America_ Retrieved from  http://obamaspeeches.com/082-Campus-Progress-Annual-Conference-Obama-Speech.htm

************

# A NOTE from the AUTHOR

I am confident that this book has already spurred you on the journey out of the Rat Race. Even if you are not in the rat race, I believe that it has stirred in you a fresh zeal to help others out of the Rat Race. It took at least nine months to complete this work but I am glad to put it in your hands **for free.** I decided to do so because I am determined to reach as many people as possible with this life changing message. This is more than a book; it is a cause.

So what now?

1) Reflect

As I said earlier, rather than provide simple steps or shortcuts, this book centers on a change of mindset because new thoughts lead to new beliefs and new beliefs lead to new behaviours. So don't be in a hurry to put it behind you, you only just began. Spend the next few hours or even days reflecting on the message, challenging your own assumptions, and readjusting your beliefs about work, job, money and wants.

2) Commit

If you believe in the message of this book, then make a commitment through this confession:

' _I will live a fulfilled life because I will find and discover the work I am sent to do. The world needs me because I have been equipped to fill a vacuum. Even if I have to pursue survival for now, I will not spend my whole life in the Rat Race. I will not be enslaved to money, yet I will profit adequately from adding value. I will because I will find out what it takes and take responsibility.'_

3) Share

Share your own Rat Race story – through discussions with people, posts on social media or whatever avenues you deem fit. I will be delighted to hear or read your story too (Feel free to contact me). Whether you are still in the Rat Race or not, by sharing your story you can get more help as well as help others. There are so many people in your shoes so there is nothing to hide. I have shared my stories too.

4) Distribute

If this book has added any value to you, please commit to sharing it with as many people as possible. This is the compensation I expect from you. I intend to reach at least **10 million people in the shortest possible time**. So please encourage all your friends, colleagues, family members and everyone you know to go and download it. It is important that you send them the download link rather than copying and distributing parts or all of the book. This is spelt out in the license note.

5) Support

In line with the **goal of reaching at least 10 million people in the shortest possible time,** the book will be translated into at least 10 languages and published in print, audio and illustrated versions. If you are willing to support this cause in any way, please contact me.

6) Participate

As a way of getting feedback, I have come up with a survey which takes about five minutes to fill. Your participation in this survey will be highly appreciated. Please fill the survey at <http://goo.gl/QUNBsH>

Finally, watch out for a revised edition of this book. It will feature additional topics such as

  * Profiting in tough times

  * The tragedy of Retirement

  * Careers at risk

Thank you for reading. I look forward to feedback from you.

So go and live your best life.

*************

# ABOUT the AUTHOR

Owoyemi David is an Accountant by training, a writer by calling and a social entrepreneur by passion. David's writings are born out of inspiration, research and deep thought and are expressed in a unique style that puts him in his own class. Aside being a writer, David is the Managing Consultant at OWO Consults Ltd (a firm that provides accounting services to small and medium-sized businesses in Nigeria), a member of the Management team of Students' Economic Development Initiative (an NGO focused on youth development), as well as the Founder of Edunnovation Africa Initiative (a new Social enterprise initiative that aims to reinvent Africa's education system and raise learning, creative and values-driven youths).

Connect with Me Online:

Email: mailto:owoyemi.david@yahoo.com

Twitter: <http://twitter.com/david_owoyemi>

Smashwords: <http://www.smashwords.com/profile/view/owoyemidavid>

Linkedin: <http://ng.linkedin.com/in/davidowoyemi/>

Blog: http://www.mymentori.blogpress.com, http://www.edunnovationafrica.wordpress.com

###########
