 
Convicted

Copyright 2014 Taylor Evans

Published by Taylor Evans at Smashwords

Smashwords Edition License Notes

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your enjoyment only, then please return to Smashwords.com or your favorite retailer and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.
CHAPTER 1

The last time I saw my team was when we helped James Killer eliminate the Triton Agency. We had figured out that the agency we had trusted had betrayed us, killed Joey's little sister, and tried to kill us after informing us that Kyle's father was the first agent to ever be in their agency.

When they kidnapped my team and I, they used their method of "interrogation" to see what we knew about Kyle Morris. Then the one person we didn't expect rescued us and took us to meet up with James Killer and his friend Dane Richardson.

From that day on, we were no longer legal agents of the Triton Agency, but rouge agents of the nation.

"Everyone knows the story of Bulls-Eye, the second Triton agent, how he went looking for his partner Dean Morris, the first agent, and how he got captured by the enemy and tortured to death. Dean and James were never heard from again, until about a few weeks ago when James sort of contacted us, he sent someone to help us get away from the agency that betrayed us, they were about ready to kill each of us because of what we knew about Kyle Morris.

What happened inside James and Dane's safe house is supposed to be classified, but I'll share. We wanted to help James get back at the agency for murdering Dean, plus everything that the agency did to us, kidnapped us, used their way of interrogation (and it sucked), and they tried to kill us by sending Vern Mathews to eliminate us.

Good thing he was working with James before he was sent or he would have finished the job. We planned to eliminate the Triton Agency; we got information, gathered supplies, and assembled an army. (If you'd call ten people an army)." I sat back in the hard chair I had been in for about an hour feeling the need to escape.

The officer in front of me paced back and forth impatiently. One sat down in front of me and sighed, "That all Cole?"

I thought about it and shrugged.

"Come on man!" The officer pacing slammed his hands on the table, "You are going to prison for life anyway so just tell us everything that happened at the agency and you might be able to cut a deal."

I smiled and looked to the side.

"Oh, now you're giving me the silent treatment?" He asked.

I looked at the cop sitting in front of me, "Tell your partner to chill the hell out,"

His partner grabbed me by the shirt and slammed me against the brick wall, my back stung as he got in my face.

"I am not in the mood asshole!" He yelled.

"Cory!" The cop yelled as he came up to him.

"You better listen to your boyfriend agent Everest." I insisted.

Cory's fist balled up, he pulled back and swung, hitting me square in the eye before his partner pulled him off.

"I have rights ass!" I yelled holding my eye.

"No Cole, your rights stopped when your team killed that officer." Cory said.

I wiped my mouth thinking about when my team shot that on duty police officer.

"Sit back down." The officer patted the seat in front of me.

Hesitantly I took the seat as he sat back down in front of me.

"Now why don't you stop messing around and start off from when you met James," He suggested.

I nodded and propped my feet on top of the table in front of me, "We met him a day after Vern had rescued us from where the agency had kept us after they kidnapped us, and 'interrogated' us for answers of stupid questions; we had to move out of the open space so we met in a construction site, and let me just say...Things were still all tense..."

CHAPTER 2

He went in with Vern and Derek, Joey and Sean went in around back so it wasn't too obvious what they were doing inside, "Sorry it took so long for us to meet," James said in a Russian accent. "But I just needed to make sure your team was the right one for the job."

"We are trust me," Cole assured him.

James nodded, "We have a safe house not far from here, we can stay in there until this job is over, until then there is no contact with the outside world,"

Sean giggled, "He sounds funny."

Joey smacked him in the back of the head.

"Ouch! What was that for?" he complained.

"Mind your fucking manners." he said to him.

He sighed and looked at James, "Can you say a James Bond line?" Joey pulled his hand back and he flinched, "Sorry!" Joey shook his head and put his hand back down.

"You have balls," James said to Sean

Sean nodded, "Big ones, want to see?"

James smiled, "We should go."

"Good idea," Dane agreed.

"Isn't James Bond British?" Derek asked Joey as they started to leave to construction site. He shrugged, "I think."

"And he is?" Derek nodded to James.

"Russian," Dane informed them.

"Right," Derek said, "Sean is dumb."

Joey nodded in agreement.

"I heard that," Sean retorted.

They left and started towards the safe house James said they had, they didn't walk together, so they split up in two groups and went different ways. When they got it they went inside and were amazed at what they saw.

"You call this a safe house?" Derek asked.

"It looks more like paradise." Joey implied.

Dane laughed, "Oh, this is just the beginning. Let me show you my favorite room." He pressed a button underneath the kitchen counter and the whole wall flipped and there was an extra room filled with all kinds of gadgets and weapons.

"Shut the hell up!" Derek gawked at the shotgun collection. The safe house looked like some rich geek persons apartment. The kitchen wall flipped and behind it was an extra room filled with weapons and ammo.

"Okay you gay boys gather around," James said.

"He's funny!" Sean pointed out.

"And we're not gay." Derek informed.

"To me you are." James responded.

We congregated around the kitchen table as Dane laid out a blueprint of the Triton Agency.

"How and when are we doing this," Derek asked.

"We got to plan ahead so it won't be the real thing for a while. And how, well I'm getting to that," James said.

"So we're actually doing this?" Sean asked, "Going against the agency that made who we are?"

Everyone was quiet.

"Yeah," Joey broke the silence. Sean shrugged and leaned in closer.

"Okay," James begun. "This is how we're going to do it, first and most importantly we need more than just us seven; we need an army."

Cole was confused, "An army? Aren't we taking this too far?"

"Two more people will do and don't worry Cole; I wasn't taking about a whole entire army." he assured him.

Cole nodded, "That's good because we don't need an army of a thousand."

James laughed, "I'm sure we do, but I just don't know a lot of people, I am supposed to be dead you know."

Sean laughed, "Yeah, we know."

Joey next to me shook his head, "Sean..."

Sean flinched, "Don't smack me!"

Cole laughed, "Joey."

"I wasn't!" He admitted.

Cole nodded, "I know."

"I like this guy." James nodded at Sean.

"I know someone who will be willing to help." Vern informed them.

Joey sighed. "Me too...Hopefully,"

Cole looked at him with his head down and asked him if everything was okay. He looked at him and nodded, Cole could tell something was bothering him; He knew him long enough to understand.

James looked at Derek, "You need to hack into the agency's security system, because I want to know everything that goes on inside and outside of that building." Derek nodded.

"Joey and Vern, contact those two people you know, we might need them." James told them, "Dane... you just do what you do." Dane laughed and nodded.

"Sean, I going to need you to go undercover,"

Sean smiled, "My specialty."

Cole rolled his eyes, "Yeah okay."

James looked at him, "Cole, We'll talk about your job later." Cole nodded understandingly.

"We need to work as a team here, like brothers. If one of us goes down we all go down." James looked at each of us, "Kapeech?"

"Is that what we're having for dinner?" Sean asked, "Is it good?"

They looked at each other in confusion.

"Are you hungry Sean?" Derek asked, "Because I got a cock meat sandwich right here!"

Sean gave a dull look, "That's just weird."

James looked at Cole, "What a team."

"I know." he shook his head.

Cole turned and went over to the couch to sit down; he looked over at Joey who stared at the ground.

"Joey," he said to him.

Joey looked over at him, "Yeah?"

"Come here man."Joey sighed and went over to Cole and sat next to him.

"What's up with you?" Cole asked concerned.

"Nothing dude," Joey responded dully.

Cole knit his eyes, "Dude? Okay something is seriously wrong with you."

Joey laughed, "It's nothing, and can I go now?"

"Nope, first tell me what's wrong." Cole implored.

Joey sighed, "Cole."

"Joey, I knew you long enough to know when something is bothering you."

Joey looked down and smiled.

"Now what is it man?" Cole asked.

"It's Josh."

Cole nodded, "Course it is."

"What does that mean?"

"Joey, I'm not implying anything it's just that I've been there when you and Josh fought, when he did the most awful things to you, I've stuck up for you and was there for you when you screwed up. Man I know what you two do to each other, no matter how much I've tried to stop it."

"Cole! You don't know anything about us!" Joey fumed.

"Joey calm down."

He stood up, "No! I'm sick of you thinking that you're the brother I never had. Man I got brother!"

Cole got up and faced him, "Then why doesn't he man up and act like one! He should have been there for you! Then and now!"

"Boy he was there for me! He got us out of doing time! Without him we'd all be rioting in prison for the rest of our lives!"

"Yeah well if it wasn't for him, Megan would still be alive!"

Everyone was quiet; they all watched Joey as his expression changed over the seconds that went by.

"You son of a bitch," Joey came at Cole but James intercepted it and held him back.

Sean and Derek stood in front of Cole gently pushing him back so he wouldn't go after Joey, but Cole stood his ground, tame from the words he spoke.

"You have no right to say that! He didn't kill my little sister the agency did! The same way they killed your family Cole!" Joey yelled.

Cole looked up at him for a split second then went after him as Derek and Sean held him back.

"Cole! Knock it off!" Derek told him.

"The agency wouldn't have killed them if you hadn't trusted Jesse! It's your fault!"

"Now that's enough!" James looked Joey in the eyes, "Calm down, this is going too far."

Joey backed off a step then faced Cole once more, "And this is supposed to be a team."

James got in his face, "Take a walk."

Joey looked him in his eyes then turned looking at Cole and walked out of the safe house slamming the door behind him.

CHAPTER 3

"Family as in Andrew and Jess, your son and wife?" Cory asked folding his arms.

I nodded.

"Our records show that they were murdered and their killer never found." The officer in front of me looked at a file folder.

I looked down and nodded.

"Cole would you like anything to drink?" The officer asked.

I looked at him and crossed my arms, "No, but I could use a cheese burger."

Cory laughed, "Are you always a smart ass?"

I shook my head, "I'm always hungry." The agent in front of me got up and walked towards the exit, "You want fries with that?"

I looked Cory in the eye, "No thanks." The door slammed and Cory took a seat in front of me.

Seconds of silence went past before I broke the ice, "You know the file says that they were killed during a robbery."

"But that's not what happened, is it?" He asked.

I looked over at the barred window.

"Cole, do you know what happened to them?"

"Yeah, I know what happened." I admitted.

He leaned in closer, "Man, I know what you're going through, my family was murdered too."

I turned and looked him in the eye.

"I felt the same way when I heard my family had been killed, I lashed out and took any job I could, making those criminals my bitches."

I gave a slight enlightened smile.

"And you know what Cole, I wanted to hunt down and kill the bastards that took my family's life, but I couldn't, you know why?"

"Because you're a good little cop,"

He smiled, "That, and the fact that I didn't know who killed them, see it was a hit and run driver. But Cole, you know who killed Andrew and Jess, don't you?" Cory looked me in the eye.

"Again, yeah, I know who killed them."

"Who did it?"

"You're a nosy little bastard,"

"Cole just tell me,"

I sighed and took my feet off of the table.

"We're not getting anywhere in silence,"

"Why go anywhere at all?" I asked.

"You're the one that brought up the topic Cole,"

I shrugged, "You're right."

"So can we finish the talk?"

I shook my head, "Let's talk about you."

"Okay." He accepted, "What do you want to know?"

"No Cory, the question is what I don't already know."

He knit his eyes, "What are you talking about?"

I smiled, "I know who you really are."

He studied me.

"I also know what you did." It was quiet as I let my words sink in. The door opened and the other agent walked back in, "Here's your burger," He plopped a half open cheeseburger in front of me.

"What the hell happened to it?" I asked.

"Got a little hungry on the way here," He said.

I looked at him and shrugged, "Ah," I took the wrapper off and took a bite of the half eaten burger.

"Mm..." I said with a mouth full of beef.

The agent went behind Cory and folded his arms across his chest, "Cole can you continue the story?"

I held up my and then swallowed, "Patience virtue," I took another bite.

He rolled his eyes and took a step forward, "Cole."

I smiled and dropped the burger, "You pigs man."

"Cut the crap," Cory looked me in the eye.

"Fine, where was I?" I asked, "Oh yeah! The fight..."
CHAPTER 4

Joey slammed the door behind him as he stepped out onto the sidewalk. His anger raged thinking about what his boss had said; he has no idea what he and Josh went through as kids. All the things they saw as a family, he was the one that took care of Megan, Joey did, not Josh, he was too busy.

It all seemed like as if Josh is an asshole, maybe he was, he thought, but times have changed, he's different, he's a brother. Joey shut his eyes at the thought, no; he was never a brother to begin with, even if he tried to act like an older brother, he'll still be the same old asshole as before.

"Joey!" Cole came running out of the front door of the safe house, he stopped abruptly when he saw Joey standing there, "Listen man."

Joey shook his head, "No man...You're right."

"Both of us were right man I shouldn't have said that."

"Neither have I." Joey mumbled.

"Times are tough." Cole shrugged.

Joey faced him, "Why do we fight when we know that we'll be back friends in the end?"

"The tension was high."

"You're telling me." He laughed, "I almost punched you."

Cole looked at him, "Me too."

"But I know you'd kill me in a fight,"

"Joey, I feel bad for saying those things about you and Josh, I was wrong about him."

Joey looked down, "Man and you were the one who told me to let up on him."

"I know, I know. It's just that, I hate how he acts like a brother sometimes then acts like a dick another time."

"Then apologizes,"

"Right," He agreed, "I know your little sister just died and this is the time for him be a brother but you need a 24/7 brother not a half time brother." Joey sighed.

"Man, you're like a brother to me, I would do anything for you and I have done everything for you. I hate seeing Josh treating you like shit; a real brother would be there for you, would stop blaming everything on him and start blaming others for what you did. Josh just blames himself for what you went through and is blaming everything else on him, cut him some slack man, go talk to him and tell him what's up."

"Right now?" Joey questioned.

Cole turned, "Go head, James might mind a little."

Joey took a step forward, "Are you sure?"

"Man would you go?" Cole urged, "I'm your boss and I say go."

Joey walked off, "Alright boss."

"See you later Captain Bob!" He called then went back inside the safe house.

"Where's Joey?" Derek asked as Cole walked through the front door.

"He went to go deal with something," Cole responded. James and Sean were wrestling in the living room; James had Sean by the head and was dragging him closer to Cole.

"Is he going to need help?" He asked.

Cole shook his head watching how Sean struggled in James' arms, "Doubt it."

"Okay! Okay! You win man! I give up! I give up!" Sean said in James' grip.

"Say it!" James demanded.

"I don't want to!" Sean cried.

"Do it!"

"Oh fuck! Fine! I'm gay and I'm proud! I'm gay and I'm proud!" Sean yelled.

James released his grip and laughed, "I knew it."

Cole stood there staring at him in confusion then cocked his head to the side, "Okay."

James looked at him, "Your turn gay boy." He took a step toward him. Cole took a step back, "Whoa, you touch me and you're dead pal."

James stopped, "You're clever man, your team didn't say anything or break out of the grip, even when I warned them and you did."

"That's because I have more common sense than them put together." Cole responded.

"Not true!" Sean got up, "I smarter than any of you!"

James looked at him, "Right."

"He did the same thing to me when we met." Vern said coming up to Cole.

"What'd you do?" Sean asked.

"I flipped him on his ass."

James laughed, "After I caught you off guard."

"Man, I fucked you up." Vern crossed his arms.

"After he fucked you up," Dane came up next to Derek.

James nodded, "What he said."

Vern shook his head, "Whatever, I got to go."

"Now where are you off to?" James asked.

Vern turned as he approached the front door, "I got to meet someone."

James nodded, "Make sure you're not followed."

Vern nodded and walked out the front door.

Cole's heart stopped, "What if Joey is followed?" He thought. The thought shook his mind, Joey would have common sense to know if he was being followed or not.

"And you guys, we have to prepare for upcoming events." James told them.

"What do you mean?" asked Derek.

"We need money and the only way to get it..."

"Is to steal it," Cole finished.

James looked at him and nodded, "We need weapons and supplies."

"Don't you have enough in that room?" Sean asked.

Dane shook his head, "As much as I love that room, I'm afraid we need more ammo and weapons along with some major explosives."

"What are we going to rob?" Sean asked hyped, "A Seven-Eleven, or a bank?"

"Neither," James informed.

"A liquor store?" asked Derek.

James shook his head, "Not even close. Our target moves."

"Enough with the guessing games, tell us." Sean said.

James gave a smile, "An armored truck."

"You guys were the ones that robbed that armored truck over on eighty?" The agent blurted.

"The work of a genius," I rejoiced.

"You shit heads almost cost innocent people their lives." Cory informed.

"Well the job cost my friend his life!" I fumed.

"Oh yeah, someone died during the heist."

"We're going to make our way towards the entry point here, then rally up with Cole, after that we meet Vern out in the van and then we should be home free." James informed them.

"What about Joey?" Vern asked.

"He should have been back by now." Cole said worried.

"I'm sure he's fine, just held up." James encouraged him.

"In what...Traffic," Sean joked.

"Don't play, he might be in trouble." Cole implied.

"Shall we go look for the kid?" Dane asked.

"I'll shall call him." Sean took out his phone, "What's his number?"

"Hold on." Derek dug into his pocket and took out his phone.

"Never mind, I got it in here already." Sean called and pressed the phone against his ear as it rang.

"Ass," mumbled Derek as he put his phone away.

"Ayo, Joey, where the hell you at bro," Sean said into the phone.

"Can you not sound so black? Man your white ass is going to get shot." Derek told him.

Sean sucked his teeth and turned away, "Where?"

He held his opposite ear so he could hear better, "What's that sound?"

"Is he jerking?" James asked.

Sean gave him a little smile, "Really?" He said to Joey, "What'd you do?"

Everything was quiet as they listened to Sean and tried to make out what Joey was saying on the other line.

"You need help?" Sean asked, "Okay man, me and Cole will be there."

Sean hung up and looked at Cole, "We go to go."

"What's up?" Cole asked concerned.

"Joey and Josh got into a fight." He said.

Cole nodded, "Understandable."

"And now Joey's in the hospital." Sean finished.

Cole froze, "let's go."

He turned and started towards the front door, "Derek, stay here with them, we'll be right back."

Before he could step out of the door James stepped forward and yelled his name, "Don't do anything dumb. Call if you need help."

Cole nodded, "Understood." He walked out with Sean right behind him.

"What happened?" The officer asked.

"If you'd let me finish!" I yelled annoyed.

"What did Derek and the others do when you left them there?" Cory asked.

"I don't know! Probably talked about girls," I guessed.

"I doubt it..." The agent mumbled.

"Are you calling my boys gay?" I asked.

"When you put it like that...Yes,"

"That mother fucker!" Cole opened the driver's door and slammed it behind him.

"Cole, before you snap, remember that Josh is Joey's older brother and that he's a cop." Sean warned him as he got in behind him.

"I don't give a fuck." He started the car and drove off down the street.

Sean put his seat belt on, "I knew you'd say that."

As they sped down the street Cole went on about something about how Josh and Joey needed each other now more than ever.

"I can't believe that he would put his own brother in the hospital!" snapped Cole, "If I was there I'd fucked him up."

"Me too," Sean agreed, "Nobody touches my boy."

"I just hope Joey got some punches in too."

"I bet he fucked him up."

Cole huffed, "Yeah."

CHAPTER 5

I sat there quietly.

"Are you going to finish?" Cory asked.

I shook my head, "First tell me a story."

"Cole! I do not have the time!" Cory yelled.

"Make time!" I slammed my hands on the table, "I gave you all my time! Now it's your turn."

"Fine, what?"

"What is his name?" I nodded to the agent that stood behind him. Cory turned and faced the officer as he nodded.

"His name is none of your business." Cory said.

"Then my story is none of your business."

"My name is Kevin Mason." The officer said.

I stuck my hand out, "Cole Phillips."

He stepped forward and shook my hand.

"Now that we're all familiar with each other, can we get back to the story?" Cory asked.

"You do not have any patience." I told him.

"Fuck you. How's that for patience?"

"Damn man. Do you need a hug?"

He came at me but Kevin held him back.

I got up, "Come at me bro!"

"Cole! You are really pissing me off!"

"Better to be pissed off than on."

As Kevin held Cory back he struggled to get to me for a punch, Kevin threw him backward.

"You need a hug. Take these handcuffs off of me and I'll give you a free hug." I insisted.

"Screw you." Cory sat back down.

"You bipolar son of a bitch," I shook my head.

"And you're just a perfect little angel huh?"

I looked to the side, "No."

"You know what your flaw is Cole?" Cory asked.

"Being too damn sexy?"

"Worrying too much about other people and not giving a damn about what happens to you."

"And you do?"

"You're doing life and I'm putting you there, what does that tell you?"

"You do care!" I exclaimed.

He sat back and crossed his arms over his chest, the barred windows behind him let in a bit of sunshine.

"You see the bars Cole? Where you're going they have them everywhere so get used to them and get used to people wanting to get in your pants other than your team." Cory informed.

"We weren't gay!" I told him.

"Then why all the gay remarks, the cock meat sandwich, James called you 'Gay Boys'?"

"I don't know there were eight men in one house, of course there are going to be some gay remarks." I said, "And James has some problems."

"Back to the story," Kevin insisted.

I sighed, "Fine."
CHAPTER 6

The car sped down the street and halted in front of the hospital; Sean and Cole got out then walked up to the entrance and went inside looking for Joey.

Cole went up to the counter, "Walker." He said to the lady.

"Cole." Sean tapped his shoulder.

As he turned Sean nodded to Joey who approached them slowly, his lip and eye split open, he held his side and walked with a limp.

Cole walked up to him, "Where is he?"

"Cole." Joey began.

"No Joey, don't try to defend him after what he did to you!" Cole snapped.

Joey sighed, "Can we go?"

Cole looked around, "Is he here?"

"No Cole he's not here! Can we just go?" Joey asked. Two guys approaching them caught Sean's attention, "Cole." He nodded towards them.

"We need to go," He looked at Joey, "Can you walk?"

Joey nodded and they turned and walked towards the exit.

"Are you carrying?" Joey asked Cole as they headed towards the van.

Cole unlocked the doors and they got in.

"Yeah, but I'd rather not risk a fight when there are civilians and police around." Cole informed him. As the car started the two men came closer to the car.

"Cole." Joey warned.

"I know." Cole said as he stripped off his pistol, "Get down!"

As he let off two shots the men got down and took out their pistols then shot shots off as they drove off.

"Who the fuck was that!" He fumed as they sped down the street.

"Agents," Sean guessed.

"Probably," Cole agreed, "Call James, tell him we got a problem. Or at least he does."

Back at the safe house Derek and Dane are playing the Xbox, Cole, Sean and Joey walked in and Cole stormed up to James who was cleaning his blade with a cloth.

"How'd it go?" James asked.

Cole came up to him, "You son of a bitch."

James stood up, "What'd I do?"

"You know exactly what you did." He stopped in front of him.

"Something happen?"

"James don't play dumb, you set us up."

James looked over at Joey and Sean, "I did not."

"You tested us or something because somehow I think you know that those agents were going to come after us at the hospital."

"Agents? Were you followed?" He asked.

Cole looked at Derek who was looking at him, "No."

"Did you make sure?"

Cole was silent.

"You didn't, did you?" James miffed.

Cole backed away, "We would have known if we were being followed."

James threw his hands up, "I guess we'll just get ready for an ambush!"

Cole shook his head, "Can I call you Richard?"

James knit his eyes, "Why?"

"Because you're a dick," He walked towards Joey.

"Burn," Sean mumbled.

"I'm starting to not trust this guy." Cole said to Joey.

"Isn't he your hero though?" asked Sean.

Cole looked at him and gave him the finger.

"Cole." James said.

Cole turned and James nodded for him to come here, he sighed and hesitantly stepped forward.

"If I were to want you dead, you'd be dead." James explained, "For this thing to work out without anyone dying we have to trust each other like brothers."

Cole huffed, "Right now, I would say that I don't trust everyone's brother right now."

"You should trust me," He insisted, "We're in this together."

Cole sighed and nodded, "I guess we are."

James smiled and held out his hands, "Want a hug?"

Cole gave a concerned look, "Want some vodka?"

He put his hands down, "Touché."

Cole laughed and went over and sat on the couch next to Derek.

"Dammit!" Derek raged.

Dane laughed, "Calm down man."

"Screw this! This game is rigged!" He yelled.

"What game is that?" Cole asked.

"Fucking Soldiers at War," Derek told him.

"And what's wrong with it?"

"He's getting pissed because he keeps dying." Dane implied.

Cole held out his hand, "Give me the damn thing."

Derek sighed and handed it over.

"You know how to play?" asked Dane.

Cole looked at the remote, "I think I can get the hang of it."

James snorted, "Good luck."

"So what are we doing here?" Cole questioned.

Dane pointed to the screen, "You're the bottom and I'm the top,"

"Uh huh,"

"And we have to get points, to do that, we have to kill the people and each other."

"Okay, so like a face off?"

Dane nodded.

"I got this." Cole boasted.

Dane laughed, "I have to warn you, I am the best."

"And I have to warn you, I am a real life trained killer."

"Life's not a game."

"Please! Let's go."
CHAPTER 7

"So you played him on the Xbox?" Cory asked.

"If you don't stop interrupting me," I respond.

"Shut up." He miffed.

I held up my hands, "Whatever you say officer." I put my hands down.

"Who won?" Kevin asked.

I looked at him and smiled, "You'll never know will you."

"Why don't you tell me?" He insisted.

I sighed, "Let's just say...I have my moments."

As he smiled Cory raged, "Skip to part where you guys robbed that truck!"

"Which one," I asked.

"There's more than one?" He fumed.

I laughed, "Just joshing you."

He put his hand on his head as he shook it, "Get to the story."

I raised my eyebrows, "As you wish master."

They all got into place, Cole followed the truck in a van, every which way it went. Vern and Derek disguised themselves as police officers at a checkpoint as they blocked off the street acting like they were doing a search for a criminal, their cruiser helped them maintain the role. James got pulled over by Dane as Sean found his way inside the passenger seat in the truck.

This job had to be discreet, modest; if they were to become noticed all hell would break loose. Sean sat in the passenger seat of the truck; he was patient as the driver talked about his first time on the drive.

"You know man my first was great, I felt free." He told him.

"Are we talking about the job or you losing your virginity?" Sean asked.

He laughed, "I like you man! But calm down."

"Are you gay?"

He stepped on the brakes, "Why? Are you?"

Sean huffed, "Far from it."

The traffic moved slowly as he talked, "Calm down man that's good, I thought you had a crush on me, everyone does."

Sean looked out the window wanting to do anything but talk. Three cars head of the truck, it was all about to go down soon, they had to get it right; no second chances.

"Get ready." James said in the ear piece as the remaining cars moved out of the way. Dane got rough with James, taking him out of the car and acting like he threw handcuffs on him.

"Easy in the hands man," James said to him.

"Shut up!" Dane joked in a rough way.

"I didn't know you liked me like that," James kid.

Dane turned him so he faced the checkpoint where the truck was the second in line, when the truck was up they had to make their way towards the back of the truck, Joey had to maintain his role by causing a distraction at the middle of the checkpoint so there wouldn't be any witnesses to the crime they were about to commit. Joey got out of the car and started to the car behind his.

"Hey man!" he fumed.

"Me?" the guy asked.

"Yeah you, you son of a bitch!" he walked up to the man's car.

"What'd I do?" the man asked.

Joey stopped and thought of something to say, "You've been sleeping with my wife!"

"Carla is your wife? She said she wasn't married!"

The woman sitting next to him fumed, "What do you mean? Who's Carla?"

"Come on baby, it wasn't going to last forever." the man said to her.

Joey looked at the woman, "Might want to get out."

She shook her head, "I want to see this."

Joey shrugged and came closer to the man, "Have it your way, ma'am."

"Oh you want to fight over her, huh?" he shuddered, getting put of the car, "Fine man."

He put his hands up and swung missing Joey by three feet.

Joey laughed, "You know how to fight?"

The man kicked the air, "Yeah dude, I took karate!"

"Karate?" Joey was unimpressed.

"Yep, well, kind of." The man put his hands down, "How about we split her?"

Joey sucked his teeth, "Man." he came closer to the guy.

"Come on man!" the man yelled.
CHAPTER 8

"There's a problem here." Vern said in the ear piece.

"What do you mean?" Cole asked.

"I mean this asshole is causing a problem." Vern told him.

"Deal with it." James told him.

"How exactly?" Vern asked.

"Listen Vern; tell the man that if he doesn't step away you will have to call reinforcements to escort him away to a psych ward." Cole ordered.

"Okay." Vern faced the man in front of him and repeated Cole's words with force.

"Damn man, all I said was I needed to go pee." The man said walking away.

"He's gone. Thanks Cole." Vern said.

"No problem." Cole responded.

He sat on the opposite side of the street in a white van waiting for the signal to pick up the rest of the team.

"Good job mate." James said to Cole.

"James?" He asked.

"Huh?"

"That's what being a friend is about."

"That's what being a boss is about." James corrected.

"Yeah..."

"Last car is moving guys." Derek said.

"Show time," Dane rejoiced. The truck pulled up slowly to the checkpoint, Vern waving it down to stop.

"Get ready guys, this is the moment when it's all about to fall apart." James told everyone.

It was quiet, the sound of fighting was heard among a group of angry pedestrians, the birds chirped and flew overhead, this was the day they were to become criminals, the day they would also become rich...

"WOULD YOU HURRY IT UP?" Joey fumed as he fought off three people who all tried to get at his neck for starting things in an already tense space.

Dane took out the remote control to his Xbox and pressed the green 'A' button. Moments later the back of the truck exploded and smoke was let out for cover, James and Dane rushed over to it and got in grabbing the stacks of money and throwing it into an open bag.

"What the fuck!" The driver fumed.

Before he could get out Sean whipped out a pistol and stuffed it in his face, "No, no, no, stay inside the truck fat man,"

He slowly raised his hands, "Calm down man."

"No! I'm sick of you telling me to calm down!" Sean said.

"Dude chill, I feel you." He empathized.

"I mean... Damn, don't move!" Sean joked in an intimidating manner. Outside the truck Vern and Derek armed themselves and waited until the money was in and they were in the clear.

"Hurry up, we got ten seconds before the police show and investigate." Cole informed.

"Almost finished," James said loading the money.

Joey made his way out of the smoke and up to help James and Dane bring the sacks of money into the van across the freeway to where Cole was parked. When the money was loaded the each grabbed a bag and lugged it over to the van.

"Sean knock that guy out." James ordered.

"On it," Sean raised his hand and hit the driver square in the face making him go out cold. He got out of the car he walked up to Derek, "You had the easy part, I had the fun part."

"Hurting people is fun to you?" Derek asked.

Sean smiled, "Always."

As the smoke grenade cleared and the money was almost in the van the man awoke from his not yet deep sleep, his head bleeding from the hit and his weapon ready for action.

"Come on guys, we got to go." Vern told them.

They made their way towards the van, "You know man, I would be nothing you." Sean told Derek.

"What are you going gay on me now?" Derek asked.

Sean laughed, "Maybe."

"Hurry it up you two," Vern turned and saw the driver in the truck, his pistol cocked and loaded and pointed at Sean, "GUN!"

Sean and Derek turned to the truck, but it was too late, six shots went off and in the blink of an eye two people went down, the driver... and Derek.

"Oh shit!" Sean rushed to his friend's side.

Vern came up behind him, "Grab his hand, we got to go."

Together they helped Derek, who was in pain from the shot, to the van across the freeway.

"What happened?" asked James as he helped Derek into the back.

"That driver was armed." Sean responded.

"Didn't you knock him out?" Dane questioned.

"It's not his fault, get in, we got to go." Vern ordered.

They got in the back as Cole drove off down the street.

"He's going to need a doctor," Sean said as he helped stop Derek's wound from bleeding.

"I'll stitch him up." James told him.

"No, he needs a doctor." Sean said.

"It's out of the way."

Cole made a sudden right turn, "If my friend needs a doctor, the hell it's out of the way."

"So after you dropped Derek off at the hospital, you left him there?" asked Cory.

"Well yeah, we had to, otherwise we would have gotten caught, and he told us too." I explained.

"After you left him there, that's when we got to him, found blood at the crime scene and traced it back to him. When we had gotten there it was too late the doctor said he was gone." He informed.

I looked away, I already knew all this and I wasn't about to hear it again, especially from a cop.

"What's the matter Cole?" He asked. I was silent.

"Oh I see, want to take a break? I could lock you in a cell at the station."

I thought about it, "Any cell mates?"

"Might be a few,"

"Can I request an empty cell?"

He shook his head, "Can't do that."

"What time is it?"

Kevin looked at his watch, "Nine thirty."

I nodded, "How about I stay here and finish my story and in a few you let me rest my head?"

"Cole—"

"Come on man!" I pleaded, "I'm cooperating!"

He sighed, "Fine, but go on with the story."

I smiled, "Thanks man and don't worry... I will."

Back at the safe house James and Dane counted the money, Vern and Joey sat at the table while watching Cole pace back and forth in front of them.

"We shouldn't have left him there man!" He told them.

"He told us too." Joey sympathized.

"I know but we shouldn't have listened to him."

Sean sat on the couch staring off in a daze, worrying about his friend.

"Is he going to be okay?" asked Vern.

"The doctors said the bullet might have hit something vital." Cole responded.

"I'm talking about him." Vern nodded to Sean.

"I know." Cole insured.

Vern cocked his head, "What?"

Joey sighed, "He means Sean is taking this hard, Derek is his best friend."

Cole nodded, "Exactly."

"I will never understand the way to guys speak to one another." He shook his head.

"Well you better start because you're going to be stuck with us for some time." Joey informed.

"That's what I'm afraid of..." He sighed.

"Two million five hundred thousand bucks exactly," Dane slammed the last sack of money on the counter.

"That's a lot of dough."

"A lot? Not a lot. A lot is a lot, this is just some." James informed.

"So you're saying we have to rob another armored truck?" Cole asked.

He shook his head, "No, I'm saying we have enough for weapons and ammo, I'll call Jackson so he can bring the van, I need to see if he has C4."

"Whoa C4? Explosive C4?" Cole asked concerned.

"Yay, we're going to make things go boom!" Vern rejoiced.

"A lot of things my friend, a lot of things." James insured.

Cole looked over at Sean who still sits on the couch staring off in a daze. He figured as a friend he mind as well go talk to him, make him feel better after all, Derek was his first friend. He got up and walked over to him, sitting down next to him.

"What's up man?" He asks.

Sean sighs, "It's my fault."

"Sean..."

"No it is, I should have been looking out for him, and he took a bullet for me; I should have knocked the driver out better, or actually did it." He cut him off.

"What do you mean he took a bullet for you?" Cole asked.

"I mean he moved me out the way, the guy was aimed at me." He explained.

"Man, I would take a bullet for you that's what a team is about; we look out for each other like family and that's what Derek did."

He sighed.

"Listen man, if I took a bullet for you, I wouldn't want you upset that I got shot, I would want you to be proud of me, happy—ish."

Sean raised his eyebrows, "Happy?"

"Yes sir, whatever floats your boat." Cole said.

He laughed, "How old are you again?"

"You calling me old?"

"Yes... Yes I am."

Cole got up, "Ass."

"Bitch," Sean returned.

"Balls!" James added.

They looked at him.

"What? I thought we were naming things men have." He said.

"Nah man, we were naming things you don't have." Sean joked.

They laughed.

"Your mom!" James turned and walked into the back room.

Cole shook his head and looked at Dane, "Whose Jackson?"

"Some gun freak, he's cool." he reassured.

Cole nodded, "How long did you know him?"

"About two years, he's been giving us the weapons we needed."

"Just making sure," Cole stated.

Dane nodded, "It's okay I didn't trust him at first either."

"You didn't?" Joey asked.

He shook his head, "Things happened and it wasn't good."

"Can you explain?" asked Sean.

He sighed, "Jackson has problems."

"What kinds?" Joey questioned.

"He kills people." James finished.

"Well, we kill people." Cole explained.

"I mean he kills people, but he's not in the business like we were. He is wanted by the state for the murder of twenty two people, cops never catch him, guys like a ghost." James leaned against the counter.

"He's also paranoid and schizophrenic, guys a nut." Dane added.

"And one of my mates so he's cool, no need to worry about him." James concluded.

"All I'm worrying about is what weapons he's bringing." Joey informed.

"He has everything from Desert Eagles to RPG's man's got it all." Dane said.

"So he'd have MPS-503's?" asked Joey.

"Oh yeah man, he's stocked."

Joey nodded, "I'm starting to like him already."

"He's a good guy." James boasted.

"Y'all talking about me?" An unknown voice said.

"Hey man!" James went up to the man and gave him a hug, "Guys this is Jackson."

Next to James stood a guy in his early thirties, he wore a white tee with a brown leather jacket, his long hair sleeked back and held behind his ears. Jackson raised his eyebrows, "Don't announce it to the entire world."

Cole came up to him and held out his hand, "Cole Phillips."

Jackson took it and they shook, "Jared 'Jackson' Hayes."

Joey got up and approached him with his hand held out, "Joey Walker."

Jackson took his hand, "You wouldn't be related to Josh Walker would you?"

"Yeah, he's my brother." Joey responded.

"No shit! Man your brother and I were like this." He crossed his fingers, "Even though he's a pig, he's my boy."

Joey nodded, "Yeah? Well we're not that close."

"Why's that?" he asked.

Joey sighed, "It's complicated."

"I see, so who wants some weapons?"

Vern and Sean's hands went up.

Jackson smiled, "Follow me."

He led them outside in the back to his weapon filled van, when the surrounded around it he opened the back and exposed the entire different weapon types inside.

"Dude, you're awesome." Sean told Jackson.

"I know." He smiled, "How much you have?"

"How much do you got?" James asked.

"What do you need?" Jackson cracked his knuckles.

"Sub machine guns, pistols, assault rifles, machine guns, grenade launchers." James informed counting his fingers.

"Damn man, we have enough for all that?" Vern asked.

James nodded, "His stuff his cheap."

"Cheapest on the block," Jackson agreed, "And I got everything you need in these bags here, help me carry them up."

"All of these?" Joey asked looking at the back of the van which was filled up with black bags.

"Yep, everything," Jackson grabbed two bags. James shrugged and took two bags as everyone copied him and took two bags too, the trip was over the first time with everyone grabbing two bags and they put them in a pile in the middle of the floor before they started to dig through them.

"How much is it man?" James asked Jackson.

"Uh for you... two thousand," He informed.

James took three sacks of money and tossed it to Jackson. "Great man, I'll guess I'll leave you to dig in dudes." He stuffed the money in his pocket.

"Nah wait before you head out I need a couple more things bro." Dane said.

"Like what?"

"C4 and grenades like that." James informed.

"That's all in there man. Check it."

"Really? Man you're the best."

Jackson smiled, "That's what they say." He turned and went out the front door.

"That guy is awesome." Vern said looking through the bags.

"Yeah, you should see some of the things in here." Joey dug in, "M-500 shotguns, SC3000's, MPS-N's, AK-47's, a whole shit load of pistols and sub machine guns."

"Jackson has it all." James informed.

"Dude, check out this RPG." Sean lifted up am RPG and its bullets.

"Careful with that, you'll blow us all to hell," Vern told him.

He carefully put it down, "I know."

"What are we going to do with all this stuff?" Cole asked.

"That's what is coming up next," James informed.

"Explain." Cole said.

"Before we totally destroy the agency we need to do one minor thing." He informed.

"Like what?" Sean asked.

"We need to hint down as much of the agents as we can, so when we go in it's not war."

"Oh snap." Joey lifted up a silenced .50 caliber sniper rifle.

"Yeah, can you handle it?" James asked.

"Yeah," Joey informed.

"Then that's yours, Merry Christmas."

Joey smiled and looked it over, "There are two."

Sean raised his hand, "Oh! Me! Me! Me!"

Cole laughed, "He is a good sniper."

"Then the other one is yours, Sean." James nodded at Joey to hand him the other sniper rifle. Joey reached in the bag and took out the second sniper and tossed it to James who handed it over to Sean.

"I'm going to name it Becky." Sean hugged the weapon.

"Mine is Jasper." Joey pat the gun on the back.

"Jasper and Becky get it on and have kids." Vern took out two silenced MPS-503's.

James took out a silent pistol and spun it around on his finger, "Then they screw and have a kid named piss."

They laughed.

"So James, how are we going to find the bastards?" Dane asked.

"I know where the first five are and as we are taking them out we're going to hunt some more down so we won't have to take them all out at once."

"I can't wait until I fucking kill those bastards," Joey said, "They took a lot from me."

"They took a lot from a lot of us." Cole added.

Joey nodded and looked down.

"Okay so guys get a good sleep tonight because come morning, we're kicking ass." James got up and walked in the backroom. The rest of them slowly separated, going into different rooms, Joey headed towards the front door before Cole stopped him, "Where are you headed?"

Joey turned and faced him, "To the store, don't worry, I'll be quick." He turned again and left.

Cole sighed and walked toward the couch to lie down and close his eyes but before he knew it he was fast asleep.

CHAPTER 9

Cole awoke suddenly to an empty safe house, at least that's what he thought at first. He sat up and ran his hand through his hair then looked over at Joey who was sitting up with a half full beer in his hand.

"Joey?" Cole asked concerned.

Joey looked over at him, his eyes bloodshot, "I thought you were asleep."

Cole shook his head, "Not anymore... Are you drunk?"

He cocked his head, "A little bit."

"What is that, Whiskey?"

Joey nodded, "Yep."

"What are you doing to yourself man?" Cole groaned.

"I'm getting wasted, what does it look like?"

"It helps hide the pain huh?"

Joey looked away, "You would know."

"I do know man; I did the same thing when Jess and Andrew were killed. Man I know what you're going through."

"Man you don't know anything! I lost my little sister, the only family I had that cared!"

"And I lost my entire family! The only family I had!"

It was quiet as their words passed one another; they sat there in silence and looked at each other.

"Listen Joey, maybe I don't know what you're going through, but I have some idea of how it feels, you want to just let go, drink until you waste away, but you can't, for Megan, hold on, because there is more to live for, finish this for her, like I'm finishing this for my family."

Joey began to tear up, "I miss her so much man." He broke down in tears.

Cole got up and sat next to him for comfort.

"I don't know how I can go on without her," He cried.

Cole placed his hand on his shoulder, "Let it out man."

Joey sniffled, "Man, I'm such an ass to you sometimes, I don't mean it. I love you like a brother man, you are the brother I don't have."

Cole smiled, "Joey, I don't know how many times I'm ever going to hear you say that again and I hope it means something coming from the condition you're in. But thank you, I think of you like a brother too, always have."

"We need to say that more, we're like a family, we can't let it fall to shit over time, even when the game is over."

Cole sucked his teeth, "Like we'd not ever be friends."

"And you know what Cole?" Joey looked at him, "I miss Ken."

Cole sighed, "Me to man, it's never been the same without him."

"I even miss the way he was always an ass." He laughed.

"We lost some good people."

Joey took a sip of his whiskey, "Yeah we did."

"Would you put that down and go to bed man?" Cole pointed to the bottle of whiskey.

"I like talking to you." Joey looked at him, "We should do this more often, other than me crying my eyes out, but we should have chats like this more."

"And other then you being drunk off your ass."

Joey nodded, "And that."

Cole took the bottle of whiskey from him and went to the kitchen sink to dump it out.

"What the hell are you doing?" Joey got up but fell back down on the couch.

"I'm saving your life, you'll thank me later." Cole said throwing the empty bottle in the trash, the glass broke as it hit an old can of jelly.

Joey shooed him and laid back to close his eyes.

"You're going to feel that in the morning," Cole walked over to the other couch and laid down, "Goodnight Captain Bob."

But it was too late Joey was already fast asleep.

"Drunken dreams Captain." He turned and closed his eyes, then suddenly opening them and knitting his eyes, "That was weird." He thought then closed his eyes again, this time they remained closed.

"That's as far as I'm going." I informed.

"That little bit? Tell us more." Cory said.

I shook my head, "I'm beat."

"You want to chill for an hour?" Kevin asked.

"No, more than an hour, until the sun starts to come out; even though I can't really tell," I looked over at the barred window.

Cory got up, "Well we'll leave you to sleep, but don't worry, we'll be watching you."

Him and Kevin left and I was left alone in the interrogation room for some shut eye, which I've been dying to get ever since I was arrested early this morning.

I scooted my chair back and propped my feet up on the table, I crossed my arms over my chest and closed my eyes.

"Wake up!" Cory slapped his hands on the table in front of me.

My eyes shot open from what felt like seconds of sleep.

"It's morning." Kevin informed.

I stretched and put my feet down from the table, "I like the way you woke me up."

Cory bobbed his head up and down, "Me too."

"So I'm guessing you want me to finish up my story today?" I questioned.

"Yes and if you would start now," Cory said.

"Damn inpatient much?"

"Get on with the story... I want to know what happens next." Kevin looked at me.

I sighed which turned into a yawn, "If you say."
CHAPTER 10

James and Dane went around the safe house waking everyone up for the day, they had to get up early because the jobs they were about to do would take all day.

"Up and at'em," James pushed Cole's feet off the ledge of the couch. He immediately sat up, "What happened?"

"Nothing time to get up and at it." Dane informed him.

He sighed and ran his hand through his hair, "Right."

Joey sat up and rubbed his face, Cole looked at him wondering if he remembered what happened last night.

Joey looked over at him and he knew he remembered exactly what had happened.

Sean and Vern came up next to James.

"You okay?" Vern asked Joey.

He had his face on his hands, "No."

"What's the matter?" James asked.

"Hangover," He responded.

"What!" James came at him but Cole got in the way.

"You went out to get drunk when you knew we had to do things today?" James fumed.

"James," Cole looked him in the eye, "Stop it."

He sighed, "Can you work?"

Joey looked up at him, "Yeah."

"Okay then, let's get ready." He turned and walked in the back.

Joey sighed and looked at Cole, "Thanks man."

Cole sighed, "Just make sure you don't get us caught."

"Or killed," Dane added.

Joey nodded and got up, "Okay."

"Your head hurt?" Sean asked Joey.

He looked at him, "Eh."

"You got stomach pains?"

Joey knit his eyes, "What?"

"Are you constipated?"

Joey rolled his eyes, "Really man?"

"Is it hard to shit?"

"Dude!"

Sean smiled, "Is it intense?"

Joey turned and walked away.

"I take that as a yes."

"You have problems man." Vern told Sean.

He giggled, "I know."

"He's not as bad as he used to be." Joey said.

"What do you mean?" Dane asked.

"I mean he was a psychopath."

Sean smiled, "I try."

Joey looked at Cole, "Can I talk to you?"

Cole looked at him, "Sure."

He nodded to the front door, "Outside."

"Hurry up," Dane said, "We have to leave first."

Joey and Cole went out the front door and down the set of stairs that led outside.

"What's up?" Cole asked already knowing what they were about to talk about.

Joey sighed, "Did we really have that talk?"

Cole nodded, "You were drunk."

"I know and I'm sorry if I upset you or if it was weird."

Cole laughed, "It was weird."

Joey rolled his eyes, "That's never going to happen again."

"It better not because I don't want to ever see you drink like that again,"

"You won't, I don't ever want to wake up with a hangover again."

Cole smiled, "That's good—"

Joey held up his finger cutting him off, "Hold on."

He started across the street."Hey!" He yelled.

"Shit." Cole followed him, "Joey!"

Joey walked up to a man and a dog, the dog had a scar over his right eye. It was in the shape of an 'A'.

"What the fuck do you think you're doing?" Joey fumed.

The man looked at him, "Who the hell are you?"

"I said what the fuck are you doing?" Joey seethed.

"Joey!" Cole came up behind him trying to pull him away but Joey refused looking into the man's eyes angrily.

"Did you just hit this poor dog?" Joey asked the man.

"What's it to you?" The man asked.

Joey huffed, "Well." He balled his fist and caught the man square in the jaw.

He grabbed the leash, "That's not how you treat animals."

The man stood up straight, "The fuck you think you are?"

"I think I'm the new owner of a pit bull." Joey pat the dog on the head.

The man spit on the ground, "Take the dumb thing! He's a piece of crap anyway!"

Joey came at the man but Cole held him back, "One hit is enough." Cole pushed him back and they walked over to the safe house entrance.

"What the hell is that?" Dane asked in a harsh voice as they walked in the door with the pit bull. Joey looked at him and smiled, "His name is Ace."

"Why is he here?" Dane asked.

"His owner was an ass." Joey got the dog to sit.

James walked over to him and pat Ace on the head, "I like dogs."

"Well I don't so get it out of here." Dane pointed to the front door. Ace growled.

"He doesn't like you." Cole laughed.

"You can keep it but if he shits in the safe house... That's on you." Dane looked at the new member of the crew then turned towards James, "I do not like dogs."

James smiled, "I do."

Sean came running in and stopped to a halt in front of Joey, "What's his name?"

"Ace," Joey responded.

"Why?" Sean asked cocking his head to the side.

"He has a scar in the shape of an 'A'." Joey pointed to the dog's right eye.

"What happened?" James asked petting Ace.

"Don't know—"

"Maybe his bastard owner did it." Joey cut off Cole's words.

"We got to get ready." James informed, "We have to leave soon."

"Can Ace come?" Sean asked.

"NO!" Dane's voice was heard throughout the house, "No dogs allowed in the van!"

"You're no fun." Sean crossed his arms.

"No dogs!" Dane repeated.

"Yeah, yeah, we heard you the first time." Joey stroked Ace on the chest as he panted with his pink tongue out, "You're going to stay here."

Ace looked up at him and licked his face; slobber getting running down his cheeks, "Ew... No kisses." Joey pulled his face away.

"We all ready?" Dane asked pulling his jacket on.

"No," Joey got up and walked in the back to get his jacket. He grabbed his black leather jacket that was lying on the ground by the stairs; he put it on and walked back out to the rest of the crew.

"Let's go." James opened the front door.

Joey bent down and unhooked Ace's collar, "We'll be right back boy."

"Come on!" Dane called.

Joey rolled his eyes, "You are an ass!" He ran out the door and shut it behind him.
CHAPTER 11

"The first target is on the tenth floor of the building, you see him?" James asked Joey.

He held the scope up to his eye, "Yeah."

"Wait until Cole and Dane are in place, then I'll give the signal and you blow his head off,"

Joey smiled, "With pleasure."

With the blind open Joey could see his target in the window, arguing with his secretary and being the ass that he is. He sighed, "I see you."

"Stalker," Sean spit, he leaned on a wall, and staking out the building the target was in. Joey huffed, "Yeah... I'm the stalker."

Sean crossed his arms over his chest, "Whatever."

"What's the matter with you?" Joey asked.

"Nothing," Sean informed.

"Really, because you made a joke and now you're just going to act pissed or upset?"

Sean sighed, "I'm embarrassed."

"Why?"

"...That joke was whack."

They were silent, unknown of what to say.

"And you said it why?" Joey questioned.

Sean shrugged, "No clue."

"Joey incoming," James warned.

Joey's guard went up, "What?" He looked around.

"On the north entrance, two CIA operatives on guard... Keep your head down."

Joey put his head down and scooted backwards, "Tell me when they're gone."

"I see them; they're looking up on the top of the roofs, hold on." Sean informed.

Joey lay still, his heart racing thinking of the trouble he'd be in if he was to get caught. He hasn't even killed anyone yet and they'll charge him with murder. He shut his eyes, "This is taking too long." He thought, "Something is going to go wrong."

"Okay... They're leaving," Sean announced.

Joey sighed, a sigh of relief, a long savored relief... That was too close.

"Close one." James said.

"You okay Joey?" Vern asked.

"My heart is racing." Joey got back in position and peeked his eye though the scope, "They there yet?"

"Almost," Cole said in the earpiece.

"Hurry it up... I want to blow this bastards head off." Joey shifted the sniper rifle. Cole and Dane stood in the elevator waiting for it to go up faster. No luck.

They stood next to a man who was digging for gold and in his own world that he didn't even notice they were there.

"Yeah well, patience virtue." Cole told him.

"You said it wrong." Sean pointed out.

"Shut up." Cole smiled.

Sean laughed, "Okay."

Cole rolled his eyes, "No smart remark? No dumb ass joke?"

"Nah,"

"Okay."

The man next to them looked at Cole, "Are you talking to me or him?"

Cole knit his eyes, "I'm talking to my imaginary friend."

The man nodded, "Understandable."

Dane laughed and looked at Cole shaking his head.

"Hey." The man looked at the two of them, "You want to see what my brain looks like?"

Cole and Dane stared at him, his stupidity shining like the sun. The elevator stopped and as the bell dinged the doors slid open and they got out.

"Bye." The man waved as the doors shut.

Dane and Cole looked at each other and shook their heads.

"What did his brain look like?" Sean asked.

Cole smiled, "There's that joke."

"No seriously, what did it look like?"

"You know what? That guy reminds me of you."

"I'm not that weird."

"Yes you are." Cole and Joey said at the same time.

"Whatever." Sean shifted himself back against the wall.

Dane and Cole continued inside the building.

"We're there." Dane informed.

Joey got prepared, "Okay, James...Tell me when." He lined up the shot, aiming at the targets head as he continued to talk; his heart pounded, this was the beginning of everything, if he killed this agent... it might all end very badly.

Cole and Dane saw the office; they leaned against the wall and took out their silent pistols, when Joey pulls the trigger they will have the chance to take out any surviving agents in the area. And they were ready to shed lead on the subject.

"Three seconds man." James informed.

Joey sighed and placed his finger on the trigger, he was ready.

"One," James begun.

The target crossed his arms.

"Two."

He blinked and turned his head towards the outside, and for a moment he looked at Joey...

"Three!" Joey pulled the trigger; the bullet went flying out of the barrel and towards the target. The window shattered and the targets skull cracked as the bullet passed through ripping everything in its path, tearing the brain tissue and erupting nerves... In seconds the target was destroyed.

"Target down, I repeat, target down." Joey sighed in triumph.

"Good work, Cole and Dane... finish'em." James ordered.

"With pleasure," Dane cocked his gun and they went in. Nothing. The secretary was beneath the desk cowering in fear.

"All clear," Cole put his weapon back in his holder, "Should we leave her?"

"Security should be coming to check out that shattered window." Dane informed.

Cole looked at the woman, "You didn't see anything. You hear?"

The secretary nodded understandingly in fear as Dane laughed and turned, Cole looked out the shattered window, "Good work."

Joey smiled, "Anytime boss."
CHAPTER 12

"The target was Ivan Farris, a lawyer with no problems outside of the court, and you and your little crew murdered him for no reason." Cory said.

"We took him out because he was an agent of the Triton agency, maybe you don't know that but we do." I informed.

"No Cole, he was an innocent man who had a family and a life, and you took that away!" he fumed.

"I took his life away because he took my family away!" I yelled, "That bastard deserved it! Him and everyone else we eliminated!"

"There were more?" Kevin asked.

I nodded, "Yeah, there were two more before we went in."

Cory leaned back, "Jack Ryan and Paul Oscar, the two were running for senate, a lot was stirred up at that time."

"Yeah, shit happened not just for you guys, but for us too... That's when it got real messy."

At the safe house Joey cleaned his sniper rifle as Ace sat next to him staring at Sean who declared a staring contest with the K9. Cole and Dane sat on the couch watching television; their eyes were glued to the screen.

James made plans and organized the next hit so they would be prepared to face the agency. "The next hit will be a double, so Sean you'll get to use Becky." James informed.

"Yes!" Sean rejoiced not taking his eyes off Ace who still hadn't blinked.

"Only one thing, like Joey, you follow my command to shoot, if I say abort you abort." James ordered.

Sean continued staring at Ace, his eyes stinging, "Okay James, whatever you say. Now let me win!"

James laughed, "You can't even beat a dog."

"I can beat you!" Sean retorted.

"As if," James crossed his arms.

It was silent as Sean stared at Ace, "Dammit dog!" He looked away, "You win." Ace licked his face and walked away.

"Beat by a dog." James mocked. Ace barked.

"That dog is smart!" Sean miffed.

"Smarter than you," He pointed out.

"Okay you—you... Fish," Sean stuttered, "You want to act like one? I'll bet you two hundred bucks that I can beat you!"

"Sean..." Vern warned as he walked in, "I wouldn't."

"Did you really just call me a fish?" James asked.

Sean nodded, "Fish!"

"Okay... It. Is. On!" James stared dead at Sean who stared back; the room was silent as Vern made his way to the couch.

"Staring contest?" Dane asked.

Vern nodded, "Yup."

Dane shook his head, "Dumb asses."

"You can say that again." Cole looked over at them staring at each other.

"Dumb asses," Dane repeated.

Cole looked at him, "Ass."

"You said that I can say that again." He pointed out.

"I didn't mean it like that." Cole responded.

"You said it—"

"Fish!" Sean yelled cutting Dane off.

The room was silent; everyone looked at Sean who stared dead at James.

"When's the hit?" Cole asked looking at James.

Without taking his eyes off Sean James responded, "Tomorrow."

"What time?" Joey asked.

"Early so don't get drunk again." He ordered.

"I won't." Joey looked at Cole, "Wouldn't want to go through that night again."

"What'd you two wake up in the same bed?" Sean asked staring at James.

"No!" Joey retorted.

"I take that as a yes." James countered.

Joey sucked his teeth, "Man."

"It's okay if you're gay... We understand." Vern empathized.

"Screw you! And you! And you!" Joey pointed to each of them.

"We're not gay." James informed.

"Why you got something against gays?" Joey asked.

"No." James responded, "I love them."

Joey nodded, "Of course you do."

"I do too." Sean added.

"Finish your contest." Cole ordered.

They were silent, obeying Cole's words. Joey laughed, amused by their reaction, just for the hell of it and cause he can. Their attention was brought back to the television, other than Sean and James', their contest remained tall and standing.

Joey looked down, his mind wondered in places he almost forgot about. John... The bastard, how he shot him and how he killed Kenneth. James, his sisters ex-boyfriend, how he hit her and how he died. At least he could thank his agency for something... And Kyle, how he had lost Rose and how he was taken by Jesse, they had to save him...

"Guys," Joey thought aloud. They looked at him.

"We need to stop fucking around and do something about Kyle." He informed.

"Kyle Morris?" James asked not taking his eyes off of Sean.

"Yeah, Jesse has him." Joey told him.

"He'll be fine." James informed.

"It's been about a week when Jesse took him, do you know who he is?" He asked.

"Yeah, do you know who he is?"

Joey rolled his eyes, "He's Dean's son."

James shook his head, "No... He's Jesse's son."

The room was silent.

"What?" Cole asked confused.

James held up his finger to Sean, "Hold on." He turned to them, "Kyle Morris is Jesse Morris' son,"

"Then who was Dean? Is that even his last name?" Joey asked.

"Dean... My old partner, he was Jesse's brother." He informed them.

"Older?" Sean questioned.

"Little." James responded, "And he had him killed."

"Shows you can't always rely on your brother," Joey put.

"Shows you can't rely on anyone," Cole rephrased.

James shook his head, "Shows you can't rely on Jesse."

"Or the agency," Vern added.

"So we're going to just leave him there?" Joey asked.

"Joey," James begun, "If I thought Jesse was going to hurt the kid, I would go help him, but that's his son. And I doubt he's going to harm him."

"Okay, but what I don't get is who the hell was Rose?" He asked.

They were silent, unknown of the answer.

"Son of a bitch," Joey huffed, "We got played by a kid."

"I guess Ken was right." Cole said, "It was the kids fault."

Joey looked down and rubbed his forehead, "Damn."

"So he lied about everything?" Sean asked.

"He was good." Cole responded.

"Trained by the best," James informed.

Joey shook his head, "I should have known."

"Joey... Stop blaming yourself, it wasn't your fault." Cole consoled.

"Yeah it was, I had to stop and save Rose, stop and save Kyle when he robbed that bank." Joey groaned.

"Let me ask you something." James said, "Did he try to rob John Adams' bank?"

Joey looked at him, "Yeah, you know him?"

He nodded, "The bastard. He's the one who grabbed me when I was on my mission; the agency gave me that assignment.

"Let me guess... John harassed you... Called a million times?" Joey asked.

James huffed, "Yep, I hated him; don't know how he got my number or how he knew it was me. The bastard just did."

"Same here," Joey sympathized.

"Real psychopath," Cole agreed.

The room got quiet as the news came on, the television blared with the sound of breaking news, "Terror in the house of lawyer Ivan Farris, the police are not giving any names, lawyer Farris has appeared to be slaughtered in his house, an eye witness reports that she didn't see the shooter, leaving police to suspect that it was a drug deal gone wrong. Ivan was a part of a national drug run company who hired the best lawyers for their cover. We'll have more on this story later this evening."

James laughed, "Ha-ha! Good job boys."

"Boss," Cole gave a smirk.

"Are we going to finish this contest?" Sean asked.

James looked at him, "Later, for now... I'm going in my room." He got up and walked towards the back.

"You have rooms?" Joey asked Dane.

"Eh, somewhat," He said, "More like a room with a bed."

Joey nodded, "I like this place."

"Me too," Dane agreed.

Sean gave a sad look, "I wanted to finish that contest."

"Try me." Joey sat up.

He shook his head, "No, I know I'd win."

Joey sat back, "Pssh... Whatever."

"Joey." Cole said getting up, "Follow me."

He got up, "What're we doing?"

"To do something,"

"Careful Joey, he looks hungry." Sean warned.

Cole stopped and turned, went up to Sean and flicked him in the nose, "Bite me."

Sean bit the air, "I will."

He turned, "I know you will." Joey followed him out the front door.

CHAPTER 13

"Where are we going?" Joey asked as they exited the front door. They headed towards the van.

"We got to do something, meet someone." Cole informed.

"Did you tell James?" Joey asked.

"He doesn't have to know." He got in the driver's seat.

Joey opened the passenger side door and got in, "He's going to be pissed." Cole started the van and they drove off down the street, "Fuck him."

"When and where?" Joey asked.

Cole looked at him, "You would."

He smiled, "I would."

Cole made a right turn and sped down the street, the light in front of him changed to red before he went through it. A red and blue flashing light was soon chasing behind them.

"Oh shit." Joey gulped.

They looked at each other, and then Cole pulled to the side of the road with the police cruiser not far behind them. When they stopped an officer got out of the car and approached their vehicle.

"Do you know why I pulled you over?" The officer asked taking off his sun glasses.

"Yeah man, I didn't see the light." Cole informed.

"You didn't see the light my ass, I'm going to have to give you a hundred dollar fine." He got out a booklet and started to write.

"Fine by me man," Cole cracked his knuckles.

The officer stopped, "Wait... You don't care?"

Cole looked at him, "Yeah is that a problem?"

He shook his head and looked down, "Nope... No problem." He continued writing the ticket then looked back up, "See... It's my first day and I'm kind of new, I was wondering if you could you know... Give me a little action?"

"In what way do you mean that?" Cole asked.

"Get out of the car." He responded harshly.

"What?"

"Get out of the car!" The officer took out his weapon.

Cole put his arms in the air, "Okay!" He reached down and unlocked the door then looked over at Joey who gave him a 'Don't hurt him.' look and opened the car door then stepped out with his hands in the air.

"Take it easy." Cole warned.

"Shut up!" He spit.

Cole looked back at his cruiser to see if he had a partner... The car was empty.

"You really want to do this?" Cole asked him.

"Resist." He ordered.

Cole looked back at Joey who shrugged, "Fine."

With that the officer came at Cole trying to whack him in the face with the back of his hand, Cole dodged the hand and took hold of it then forced it behind his back.

"Ah! What gives?" The officer yelled in pain.

"Say uncle." Cole teased.

"Uncle, now let me go before I arrest your ass!" He ordered.

Cole let go and the officer backed up holding his hand, "You know karate?" Cole shook his head and opened the van door, "Nah, I just know some moves."

"Maybe you can teach me sometime, huh?" He backed up towards his cruiser. "Yeah maybe," Cole laughed getting in the van, "Can I go?" The officer turned to his car and waved him, "Yeah whatever." Cole started the van and sped off down the street.

"That was weird." Joey said.

"Tell me about it." Cole agreed looking in the rear view mirror.
CHAPTER 14

The white van stopped to a halt in front of the drug run building. Cole and Joey got out of the van and approached it, Joey looked at his boss in confusion, "What're we doing here?"

"We're here to do business. A little pay back." Cole cocked the pistol in his hand.

"Oh shit." Joey took out his weapon and cocked it then followed Cole into the building, "Don't do anything dumb!"

Cole laughed and went up the steps, "Just follow me. And don't do what I do."

"Who are we going to see?" Joey asked.

"An old friend." He smiled.

They continued up the staircase as Cole looked at every door trying to find the one they had to go in. He stopped, "Two oh six. This is our stop."

Joey held his pistol in the air, "James is going to be pissed."

"He'll get over it." Cole stated, "When I say now, we're going to sneak in and find the target, he should be the only one in there."

"Is the door unlocked?"

Cole twisted the knob and the door opened slightly, "I think." He nodded his head saying 'lets go' and Joey followed him inside the apartment, their pistols armed and ready for war.

Music blared though out the apartment, they searched through the rooms checking for the target, this was like a real hit, they had to be careful. With one room left to search they regrouped and slowly headed towards it. Pistols aimed at the door.

Cole nodded for Joey to take point in the door frame; he did then slowly opened the door. Cole suddenly busted through the door making half of it come off the hinges.

With their pistols aimed at the target, he rolled around in his mattress, not showing his face.

"Get up!" Cole quickly put his weapon away and yanked the target out of bed and slammed him against the wall.

Joey lowered his weapon, knowing who the target was, he was confused and speechless yet angry and startled. It was something he had not expected, nor anyone for that matter.

"What do you think you are doing man!?" Cole yelled at Ken, his so-called "Deceased" friend.

"Cole..." Ken was speechless.

"What'd you do to yourself?" Cole asked disgusted.

"I'm living life." Ken admitted.

"Like this?" Joey looked around the bedroom.

Ken looked at him, "Shut up! You don't know what it's like! You haven't lost everything you live for!"

"I haven't?" Joey began to tear up, "Man, I've lost more than you! Look at yourself, you quit the team so you could come here and get high?"

"I didn't quit the team... The team quit me!" Ken yelled.

"Quit you!?" Cole responded, "Man we were your family! We were like brothers! Like fucking brothers!"

"What a family we were right?" He said, "Joey... he risked all our lives to save a stupid little kid!"

Joey looked down, "Your right—"

"God damn I'm right!" Ken cut him off, "And you know what the bullshit is? How we had to save them, how we had to risk our lives to save them stupid little kids. And I was killed in the making!"

"No Ken! You weren't killed, you faked your death. And for what? To do this!" Cole looked him up and down, "I would do anything for you man! Anything! Even if it meant putting my life at risk to save your ass... I would do it!"

"Then why didn't you Cole!?" Ken started to tear up, "Why didn't you stop the game to look for me! Before I became this!" He looked down at himself.

"We thought you were dead!" Cole yelled, "We thought John had killed you!"

"Chopped my head off..." Ken laughed.

"Yeah!" Cole agreed, "Man we were heart broken when we got that package!"

"But you didn't come to my funeral!" He miffed, "Wow, you guys really cared!"

"Shut up in there!" A man in the room next door retorted.

"Man we couldn't if we tried; we couldn't report you dead... Are you kidding?" Cole raged.

Cole let go of him, "What a friend you are."

Ken wobbled back to a stand, "Whatever man, just leave me be."

"No... No you're coming along." He informed him, "Joey grab his arm."

Ken looked at Joey, "Don't you fucking touch me."

Joey approached him, "Ken... Just come with us. Don't put up a fight."

"Joey that's an order!" Cole yelled, "Grab his arms!"

He came closer to Ken and then grabbed his arms as Ken pulled away. If he wasn't going to go quietly they were going to make him go forcefully. And that was the option.

"Joey, don't you touch me." Ken warned.

Cole came up behind him and grabbed his arms forcing them behind his back. Ken kicked and Joey grabbed his feet, "Calm down man!"

"Screw you!" Ken fought off them, but it wasn't enough. Cole got him on his stomach; he and Joey put pressure on his back so he couldn't get up. Kenneth wasn't as strong as he was before. He relaxed a little bit but still fought.

"Did you guys get stronger or what?" Ken asked laying still.

"No," Cole said, "You just got weaker."

Ken sighed as they let go of him, Cole was still on guard.

"I'm sorry guys." Ken began to tear up, "I guess I was thinking about myself and not realizing what I was doing to the crew."

"Damn right." Joey said.

He looked at him, "I was always an ass... and now I'm a complete asshole." A tear ran down his face, "You were right Cole, I did quit the team to come here and get high. I wasn't thinking at the time, I thought I had lost it all, but in truth... We all did." He looked at Joey, "I'm sorry man."

Within a split second Ken reached for Joey's pistol, grabbing it and aiming at his head, Cole reacted by instinct, he grabbed the pistol and threw it back to Joey, then he grabbed Ken's head and hugged him as Ken wept on his best friends chest.

Joey stood there stunned that the man who taught him everything that he knows tried to kill himself with his gun. Stunned that the man who has been through hell and back with them is in tears in front of him, and he can't do anything about it.

"It's going to be okay man, there is more to live for." Cole cried, "Not like that... You're not going like that."

Joey bent down and dropped his pistol on the ground in front of him, angered by the words Ken phrased, saddened by the actions he chose.
They looked at me, speechless. Cory blinked, "Kenneth? He's back."

"Like the real slim shady." I joked.

Kevin laughed, "Slick.

I held out my fist for a fist pump, he came in and placed his fist on mine, fist pump.

"Stop playing..." Cory rolled his eyes, "Ken's back?"

"Back again." I joked again.

A smile tug at Cory's lip, "Okay. And how did you know he was alive?"

I picked at my finger nails, "James told me, he said... uh..." I thought about it, "He said... He found out that Ken was alive when he did his research on my team and me."

"What was your first reaction?" He asked.

"Are you kidding? My first reaction was to kill him for betraying the team. Then I saw what he had become over the year and I pitied him." I responded.

"You're just a sympathetic little bastard aren't you?" Cory miffed.

"What is wrong with you?" I asked, "You don't care about anyone but yourself."

"That's because I'm a man of will power." He responded.

"Will power?" I retorted, "The only will power you have is to pull your dick out of your pants."

He came at me but Kevin held him back with one hand, he didn't seem all that upset. But I hit a rough spot for sure.

"I've about had it with you!" He yelled, "We're done! Story time is over!" He started over to the door and opened it, two officers came in.

"Put the rat back in its cage." Cory told them. He started to walk away.

"Agent Everest," I called.

He turned.

"Don't you wanna hear the rest of my story?"

He was silent, looking at me.

"I can promise you it's a good one." I insured.

He sighed and faced the officers, "Get out of here."

I smiled, "That's my boy."

The two officers turned and left shutting the door behind them. Cory sat in the seat in front of me as Kevin stood behind him watching me. I looked at the two of them and said the first thing that came to mind,

"You two make a good couple."

"Shut up and get back to the story, make it good." Cory ordered.

I shook my head, "So bossy."

"That's how I get things done." He miffed.

I nodded, "Right. So the story ends like this..."

After they dropped ken off at rehab, Joey and Cole took of down the street. They had told Ken everything that he had missed, informed him about James, Dane and Vern, about what had happened to Derek and that Sean was back on the team. He didn't take to the information too well. Cursing and calling everyone names that should not have been repeated.

Cole stopped at a light and sighed looking at Joey, "That was the toughest thing I ever had to do."

"At least we know Ken's alive." Joey rejoiced.

"Yeah but to think... he's been alive and on drugs this whole time? Makes me think why we even do this."

"Cole, Ken put us through a lot, but that doesn't mean, we're not going to keep doing what we do."

"After we do this... We're not going back." He informed.

Joey nodded, "I know."

"Can't believe all this happened because of Kyle."

"Oh, and thanks for not telling Ken about Kyle. He would have killed me." Joey said.

Cole stepped on the gas, "He's going to find out in time."

"Yeah," Joey sighed, "For now."

"Keep it quiet?" Cole asked. Joey nodded.

"I will until he finds out."

"Me too," Joey accepted.

Cole made a right turn, "I wonder if that cop is still patrolling."

"Why you want to face him again?" Joey questioned.

"Yeah," He laughed.

Seconds of silence went passed before Cole flicked the radio on; they sat in silence the rest of the way to the safe house as they listened to rock music.

CHAPTER 15

Cole parked the white van on the side of the safe house, when they got out Sean approached them, "I wouldn't go in there."

"Why?" Joey asked.

"James is having a fit." Vern informed coming up to them.

"Russians have fits?" Cole asked.

"Is it because we left?" Joey questioned with fear of being in trouble.

"No—"

"The damn agency is calling all agents back into the base." James cut off Dane's words.

"What?" Cole said surprised.

"Inside," James ordered, "We talk inside."

Dane and James turned and started inside the safe house; Vern looked at Cole and shook his head.

Joey followed James and Dane as he looked around to make sure there was nobody watching them go inside, when it was clear he continued with Sean behind him. Cole and Vern were last, following the rest of them like little puppies following their parents.

"Fish?" Sean asked randomly.

"The agency called the rest of the agents in base for lock down." James informed.

"Why?" Joey asked.

"Because they found out someone's been assassinating agents." he responded.

"We only took out one." Cole said.

James shrugged, "Well looks like they were smarter than us."

"Not for long." Vern put.

James nodded, "We need to move soon or we're never going to get rid of them."

"So I guess we're not going to do the double kill?" Sean said.

James looked at him and shook his head, "Nope."

Sean sighed, "Man."

They all looked at each other, knowing they had to do what they started in the beginning. They all knew they had a purpose in life and that purpose is to eliminate the Triton Agency.

"So when are we going?" Cole asked.

James looked at him, "Tonight."

"Tonight, tonight?" Sean asked.

"Tonight, tonight." James assured.

"Tonight, tonight, tonight?" Sean repeated.

"Tonight, tonight, tonight."

"Tonight, tonight, tonight, tonight?"

"Tonight, tonight, tonight, tonight." James assured again.

"Tonight, tonight, tonight, tonight, tonight?"

"Tonight, tonight, tonight, tonight, tonight."

"TONIGHT!" Dane yelled irritated, "God damn!" He walked away with his hands in the air.

Sean looked at James, "So tonight?"

"Tonight," James responded.

Sean nodded and walked away with Ace next to him, Joey came up to James, "Tonight?"

"Tonight," James smiled and nodded.

"We get it! Its tonight!" Vern argued.

"We should get ready then." Cole informed.

"Cole's right, let's stop fooling around and start thinking about what's best for us right now." James said.

"That's a first." Dane mumbled.

James looked at him, a half smile on his face. He then looked at Cole, "We should get ready."

Cole nodded, "I know."

"We got great weapons." Joey announced.

"And great gadgets," Vern added.

Dane came up to them, "I know what we're going to wear too."

"No tights." Sean said.

"Too bad mate," Dane said in an Australian accent, "We look good in tights."

"Well I know I do." Joey said running his hand through his hair.

"Let's get started then." Dane declared.
CHAPTER 16

"Okay gay boys, we have about an hour before the C4 goes off and we all are on the highway to hell." James informed them.

They were outside of the Triton Agency, everyone dressed in black and wearing tights to fit in with the darkness. They had hockey masks on and each of them hid a blade in their boot. They were ready for war... And war is what this is.

"Your watches are set to go off in thirty minutes, when they go off get the hell out of there." Dane explained.

"Why don't we just let the building go boom?" Sean asked.

"Because if we don't go in and start something Jesse might think something's up and call an evacuation for the agency." James said.

"It would be better to just beat the clock on this bomb." Dane proposed.

"And let the remaining agents inside get fried?" Joey asked.

"Better than having a job fail," James informed.

"What if we're left inside?" Vern asked.

"Then we fry." Dane responded.

"I like fries." Sean said.

"Let's go." James cocked his silenced MPS-503.

They all had one, with silencers. They each had a silenced MK.23, three frag grenades, two smoke grenades and two EMP Grenades. They were loaded with the best.

"Cole you go with Joey and Sean and I will go with Dane and Vern." James ordered. They got in groups.

"After we go in... Split up, we'll cover more ground. When your timer goes off... Get the hell out of there." James turned.

"Wait where's our ear piece?" Cole asked.

James faced him, "In repair."

"What?" Joey seethed.

Sean gave a bashful look, "I may have broken them."

"What do you mean?" Cole asked again.

"I uh dropped them in a glass of water." he flinched.

"What!" Cole yelled. James shushed him.

"He was trying to prove a point." Vern told him.

"All of them?" Joey asked.

"All of them." Vern informed.

"Okay, let's go." Dane took hold of James' neck and dragged him towards the back of the agency.

Cole balled his fist and pretended to punch Sean as he flinched.

"I'm sorry!" Sean flinched.

They started towards the front entrance, which they had to place C4 on the front so they could gain access to inside.

They approached the doors and looked about them.

"They are boarded up." Joey said.

Cole nodded, "Yeah, Sean give me the C4, Joey you take the other side and on three."

Sean handed Joey and Cole half a pound of C4 and they each placed it on the corner of the agency's front entrance.

When they were ready they backed up a few feet and took cover.

"Whenever you're ready," Cole told to Joey.

He took out a remote and pressed the red button on top. The front doors exploded with a bang and shots were fired from the inside.

"Hóka-héy," Joey charged forward with his weapon locked and loaded.

With Sean behind him he let off shots and took cover behind a rock. Sean ran past him and took cover behind a broken piece of the front door screaming, "You fish!" at everyone he took out. Cole shook his head, "That's my team for ya." He got up and ran over next to Joey then started letting off cover shots so Joey could get up next to Sean.

Once Joey was in cover he let off cover shots so Cole could get better cover next to Sean. When the shots stopped they froze to see if anyone was left. Cole got out of cover and looked around.

"Clear?" he asked.

"Clear." Sean responded and got out of cover.

Joey followed them into the building, "We should split up."

"He's right. Meet back here when your watches go off, no fooling around, I mean it." Cole ordered.

"Don't worry boss." Joey informed, "Well make it out alive."

"I know you will...Just be careful." He told him.

Joey nodded and cocked his gun then walked away to do his business with the agency that betrayed him.

Sean came up to Cole, "I know sometimes I can be the most annoying and most retarded person alive, but I just want you to know if we don't make it out alive, you go ahead, we'll be okay, trust me."

Cole looked at him and smiled, "Whatever you say."

Sean nodded and walked off, "Oh yeah," He turned, "Don't be a fish... Know when it's enough."

Cole knit his eyes, "What?"

Sean shrugged and turned, "Don't know."

He nodded and cocked his gun, "Right."

Cole looked to the right, the way he had to go to finish the job with the agency. It had already started, after this he wouldn't be the same guy the agency could turn to when they needed a hit job done. Jesse wasn't his boy anymore, and they weren't connected by the only thing that mattered. The Triton Agency.

He sighed and pressed forward, he had to do this; for Jess and Andrew, for his team, for him. He had to give the agency what they deserved; they took a lot from them. From a lot of agents that worked for them, this was the day that would change history.

He continued, aiming his weapon forward so if anyone were to charge him, he'd be ready. It was quiet, too quiet. He took cover behind a wall and waited.

Suddenly shots went off and there was yelling, some of which was not understandable.

"Come on Cole!" an agent yelled, "You're not scared are you?"

Cole huffed, "Scared Logan? Please, I'm just waiting for you to lose your rounds."

The shots stopped and Logan continued, "Fine then, wait right there."

"Okay, fine by me." Cole peeked out of cover, "Just make sure—" he took out a frag grenade, "When things get complicated, you know when to quit." he threw the grenade towards where Logan and the others were taking cover.

"Grenade!" someone yelled seconds before the frag grenade went off.

Cole got out of cover and took out two agents; it was clear as he proceeded forward. Where Logan was taking cover there were dead bodies of agents he had worked with over the past years. Some of which he was friends with, and others who had betrayed him.

He walked up to Logan, whom was lying dead on the ground with his legs blown to bits. It was a disturbing scene.

"R.I.P... Rot in pieces." Cole said.

He stepped over his body and continued down the hallway, looking out for any survivors. He peeked out a corner and made sure it was clear before he went down.

He sighed, uneasy about the fact that he couldn't make contact with the rest of his team when he was on the job. He had to make sure they were okay, one of them could get shot down and killed and he wouldn't know it.

The timer on his watch ticked down to twenty minutes, he looked at it and bit his lip then continued forward.

Shots made him jump backwards, the area wasn't clear. He reloaded his weapon the shot back not taking out anyone.

"Hold your fire!" Someone yelled.

The shots stopped and Cole sighed.

"Who's that?" Someone yelled again, "Cole?"

Cole smiled, recognizing the voice, "Hey Paul."

"Damn Cole, look what you got yourself into." Paul, his old mentor said.

"Yep, some shit isn't it."

"Why don't you come out and we'll rally up your crew and talk about this."

"Sorry Chef, there's nothing to talk about."

"I think there is, Cole." He insisted.

Cole shook his head, "Sorry it had to end this way."

Paul sighed, "Me too." He took out a frag grenade and threw it at Cole.

Cole's eyes went wide and he dodged to the side avoiding the grenade thrown at him. It exploded a few feet next to him blowing a dead body to bits. Blood from the body splattered on the walls, and his foot landed on Cole as he was taking cover.

"Missed me fucker!" Cole yelled as he got up and threw the dead bodies foot at the agents.

"Oh well, you know what they say... Keep your friends close and your enemies closer." Paul said.

"What's that mean wise ass?" He asked.

"Put your guns down and fight like a man." His voice got closer.

Cole backed up, "Not the old style way of killing someone."

Paul stopped at the corner of the wall and talked, "Come on son, show some balls."

"First of all, I'm not your son. And second, that way is so gay. Let me shoot you in the ass, that'll make my day," Cole insisted.

Paul smiled then bent over, turned around and backed up. His butt peeked out of the corner of the wall.

Cole laughed, "Just like you." He took out his pistol and aimed it at Paul's butt... Then fired.

Paul fell forward, "YOU SHOT ME IN MY ASS!"

"It shouldn't have been sticking out like that!" Cole protested.

"But you shot me in the ass!"

"Does it hurt?"

"NO SHIT!"

"Sorry..." he groaned.

"Why'd you shoot me in the ass in the first place!?" Paul asked.

"It was sticking out! And when something sticks out, you shoot it!"

"BUT IT WAS MY ASS!"

"Need a bandage?"

"I need a doctor!" he yelled.

"I'm a doctor." an agent said.

"Hey! You come any closer and I'm going to shoot you in the ass too!" Cole ordered.

The agent backed up, "Okay, never mind then."

"Paul, you taught me everything I know, and I thank you... But your boys over there got to go." Cole took out another grenade.

Paul looked at him, "Come on Cole don't do this."

"The agency killed my family chef; everything I've ever loved was murdered because they thought I wasn't doing well enough! And now it's time to get revenge." He slid the pin out and threw the frag grenade at the remaining agents.

It exploded and they were dead. He peeked out of the corner, dead bodies scattered through the hall, and at the end there was a door leading to an office, Jesse's office.

"Give up now Cole; you'll never make it out alive. Save you and your team's life now... Walk away." Paul pleaded.

Cole looked at him lying in a pool of blood and smiled, "Sorry chef," He put his pistol away and proceeded towards the office with his MPS-503 out and ready.
CHAPTER 17

As his watch counted down to its last two minutes, Cole rummaged through Jesse's files on his desk in his office. The room was clear and there was no sign of Jesse anywhere.

Cole opened each drawer of Jesse's desk, he stopped at the bottom one and it wouldn't open. He took out his lock pick and started to pick the lock, when it opened there were files inside.

Cole grabbed them and looked in the first one; it was a file containing information and a photo about Sean. He threw that down and looked in the next one, it was about Derek. He threw that down and looked in the next one, Joey. He then threw that one down and looked in the next one, it was of him. He stopped and read it through.

He put the piece of paper back in the file folder and looked in the next one. It was of someone he didn't know, he again read it through:

"This must be an agent they took out." he thought.

Behind the piece of paper was a drawing of Felix, he picked it up and looked at it.

He studied the picture, the face didn't seem familiar. The picture seemed drawn, it seemed a mess and unprofessional. But it got the idea out.

"Who are you?" An unfamiliar British voice asked from the office door.

Cole turned and faced the same man who was on the picture in his hand, he stared in disbelief. Felix pointed a silent pistol at him and spoke again, "Where's Jesse?"

"You're supposed to be dead." Cole said to him.

"And your about to be, now answer me! Who are you and where is Jesse Morris?" Felix raised his voice.

Cole dropped the picture, "My name is Cole."

Felix lowered the weapon, "I know you. Where's your team at?"

"Around,"

"Cole Phillips right?" He asked. Cole nodded.

"Your team was the first group in the agency, man some of us looked up to you guys."

"What are you doing here?" Cole asked.

He put the gun down, "The agency tried to kill me and I heard someone was killing off the agents so I dropped by... And look what I found."

"You know the story of Bulls-Eye?" Cole questioned.

"Who doesn't?"

"Well he's here too."

"Two legends come together to destroy a sacred embassy."

"That's us." Cole informed with a peppy voice.

Felix cracked his knuckles, "I want to join your team mate."

"We're not much of a team anymore."

"Just this once, I want to know what it's like to fight with a legend." He informed.

Cole looked at his watch, "We got to be out of here in less than two minutes, there's a bomb about to go off."

He nodded, "I'm with you."

Cole nodded too, "Come on then." He started out of the office and down the left side of the hall.

"By the way," Felix said, "You never answered my question, where's Jesse at?"

Cole shrugged and got his gun out, "Don't know, he was gone when I got in there."

"What a coward." He huffed.

Voices down the hall made them halt. They looked at each other and Felix spoke, "They're coming up the hall."

"We'll meet them there." Cole cocked his weapon.

They got up against the wall and waited in the darkness for their approaching targets.

Two men jogged down the hall towards them, they got ready.

"There's a disturbance in sector D! All available agents report to that area!" a walkie talkie blared.

"On my way." an agent said.

Two of them raced down the hall, passing Felix and Cole. They came up behind them and silently took them out with their silenced pistols, the lifeless bodies dropped to the ground.

"Nice teamwork." Felix pointed out.

"Well I'm used to working in a team." Cole informed.

They turned and continued down the hallway. Cole stopped before they turned another corner, "We should start rushing to the front door."

Felix looked at him, "We can't just kill one more agent?"

Cole laughed, "Unless you want to get blown to bits."

"Okay let's go." His British accent sounded worried.

He turned and started towards the front door leaving Cole behind. Cole followed behind him and kept an eye on his watch.
CHAPTER 18

At the entrance Cole looked at his timer, thirty seconds to go. They stopped at the steps and looked around.

"Okay mate, I got to go." Felix held out his hand.

Cole took it and they shook.

"Going already?" Cole asked.

"Yeah, catch you around?" He proceeded forward.

"Sure... See you man." Cole waved as he turned and disappeared in the darkness.

Cole sighed and looked at his watch, twenty seconds before his timer went off and when it goes off he has twenty seconds to clear the area before the C4 goes off and the building is history.

"Come on guys." He said to himself.

He was worried; he walked down the stairs and stopped at the foot of the agency then faced it. Ten seconds soon counted down, nine, eight, seven, six.

His heart raced, "What if his team didn't make it out?" He thought.

He swallowed and his timer counted down to one. Five, four, three, two, one.

His watch went off and there was no sign of anyone but him, he thought of going inside and looking for them, maybe they're around back. He told them to meet outside of the agency, in the front. Maybe they were wounded in war, or K.I.A.

He wanted to go in, but something stopped him, he knew it would cost him his life. But he'd do anything for his team. He had to go in there; they would do the same for him.

He took a step forward and was thrown backwards by the blast of the bomb. He hit a car and the alarm went blaring, his back stung with pain.

The building was up in flames and pieces of it fell out of the sky. Two people came running out of the agency burning and screaming bloody murder, their screams faded and they dropped to the ground as their bodies continued to burn.

Cole looked up in shock; a tear ran down his face. His team... His friends...Gone. Sirens wailed in the distance but he didn't care.

He placed his hands on his head and stared at the burning building. Police cars soon surrounded him; cops got out of their cruisers and aimed their pistols at him.

"Get on the ground!" One yelled at him.

Cole raised his hands and slowly got on his knees. Two officers came up to him and put handcuffs on him and escorted him to the back of a cop cruiser as they read him his rights.
CHAPTER 19

"And that's how you ended up here." Cory pointed out.

I nodded, "You bastards and your response time."

"Don't get sassy because you're going to prison." He said.

"I'm not getting sassy, just pointing out the obvious." I informed.

"You do that a lot." Kevin mumbled.

"Sometimes," I looked at him.

The interrogation room was silent and they looked at me, Cory sighed, "I guess this is the end of the interrogation. See you in hell." He got up.

"One thing," I started, "You know what they say about friend's right?"

He looked at me and cocked his head.

I smiled, "With you till the end."

An explosion was heard beyond the interrogation room, shots were fired and people were yelling. Soon the shots stopped and the interrogation room went black.

"Oh yeah, there's one thing I forgot to mention." I said, "Vern's informant? His name was Kevin Mason."

Fighting was heard in front of me, I stood up and the light came back on. Cory was on the ground and Kevin came up to me with the key to my handcuffs and took them off of me.

I turned and faced my crew, all seven of them. Behind me Cory stood up and held his bloody jaw.

"H—how?" He miffed, "They were supposed to be dead."

"We snuck out of the back and saw that you took our boss." Joey informed.

"We got a little pissed." Sean added.

James handed me a pistol, "You know who he is?"

I took it and walked towards Cory, "Yeah, I kind of suspected."

"Suspected what?" Cory quaked.

"Like I said, I know who you really are Cory Everest." I looked him in the eyes.

His facial expression changed dramatically, he gave a smirk and looked us through, "You fool."

"Where's Jesse, Cory?" James asked.

Cory smiled, "Not here."

"Oh yeah?" I dictated, "Where the hell is he?"

He was silent as he stared at me.

"Want to be like that? Fine, let's take him back to the safe house and interrogate him." James ordered.

Kevin stepped forward but I held him back, "Wait that's too much." He backed off as I held up my pistol to Cory's face.

"Let's just get rid of him now." I insisted.

"Good idea Cole, go right ahead." Derek encouraged coming in the interrogation room.

Sean hugged him, "Glad to see you walking."

"Your whole teams back huh?" Cory asked.

"Like the real slim shady." I joked.

He nodded, "Go on Cole. Shoot me."

I cocked the pistol, "Tell me where Jesse is."

He stood there silently and looked in the barrel of the gun. Without a word he kissed it.

"Shoot me." He intimidated, "Shoot me... Shoot me like I shot your family!"

I pulled the trigger but nothing came out, Cory let out a sigh of relief.

"I knew you wouldn't have the balls." He mumbled.

I put the gun down, "I didn't know it wasn't loaded."

He looked at me as Derek threw me another gun.

"Now... This one is loaded." I showed him the magazine then reloaded it and placed it on his head, "Where's Jesse at?"

"School?" He guessed.

"Wrong answer!" I cocked the gun.

He swallowed, "I don't know."

I slowly pulled the trigger down.

"Okay! Okay! Fine! Fine!" He cried, "He's supposed to be meeting this guy tomorrow at two!"

"Where?" I asked.

"In the middle of Central Park,"

"Thanks." I pulled the trigger.
CHAPTER 20

"We got half an hour before Jesse shows up." James informed in the ear piece.

"What shall we do in the mean time?" I asked.

"Let's play hide and seek." Sean insisted.

"Okay you go hide and I'll go over there and order some pizza." Derek joked.

"Make mine cheese," Sean ordered.

"I want pepperoni." I told him.

"Anchovies," Vern added.

We sat in the middle of Central Park waiting for Jesse to meet this guy Cory said he was supposed to meet. I had my doubts that this plan would work but James assured us that he'd done this before.

I sat on the bench across from Joey wearing my casual white tee shirt with my brown leather jacket and jeans, Joey wore his white tee shirt with black jeans and a black baseball hat which he had backwards, it said 'Captain Bob.'

Sean sat a bench away from me in his red shirt that had 'Fish!' written on the front of it, custom made by yours truly. He had light blue skinny jeans on too.

Derek sat across from him reading a magazine and wearing a black tee shirt with gray sweats, Vern sat a bench down on the opposite side of me and he had on a cowboy hat, baby blue V-neck with jeans.

James stood behind me leaning on a pole, he was in his favorite shirt, as he put, his shirt was one of my favorites, and he had custom made it himself. It was white and said, 'My Balls Are as BIG as My Heart.' in black.

Dane stood across from me, behind Joey, leaning on a tree and 'texting' on his cell phone. He wore a pink V-neck with jeans and a black baseball hat pointed forward.

"When's he coming?" Sean asked impatiently.

I sighed and crossed my legs, "Patience virtue."

"I don't have patience." He watched a woman in a pink dress walk past him.

"Let's play I-Spy." James suggested.

"I'll go first," Vern said looking around, "I-Spy with my little eye... Something sexy,"

"Me?" I guessed.

"We're so gay." Joey laughed.

"Guess." Vern ordered.

"Uh, that girl?" Sean nodded to the woman in pink.

"Nope," Vern lilted.

"Let me guess, is it you?" James guessed with a smile.

"Dammit," He mumbled, "Yeah it is."

"Why are we so early?" Derek asked rubbing his head.

"If I know him, he comes to meetings early." James informed.

"But do we have to be an hour early?" Sean moaned.

"The early bird—"

"Yeah, yeah catches the worm. We know." Dane cut off James.

James laughed, "Trust me."

"Last time I trusted you, you nearly got me killed." Dane miffed.

"That man had anger issues." He huffed.

"He shot me!"

"And I shot him."

"Not here guys." Vern interrupted. It was silent.

"You know what's funny?" Sean asked, "I just realized we're all here talking to each other right? But to others it seems like we're talking to ourselves."

Everything went silent again; I looked over at Sean who looked at me and smiled. It was such a nice day out, nice day to kill the man that betrayed us.

"Hey Joey," I looked at him.

"Yes boss." He looked over at me.

"Back at the agency, you said something before we went in... What was that?" I asked.

"Hóka-héy?"

"Yeah that, what's that mean?"

"Today's a good day to die." He informed.

"That's uh... Pleasant." I knit my eyes.

"Got it from this movie," He smiled.

"Inspiring,"

"Right though?"

"Can we finish playing I-Spy?" Sean asked.

"Yeah my turn," James responded, "I-Spy with my big eye a dead man heading this way."

"Ooh! I know... Is it James Bond?" Sean asked.

"No," James assured.

"Is it Cole?" Sean asked again.

He didn't answer.

"Is it Joey?"

No answer.

"Is it me?" He asked once again.

"Sean, shut up!" Derek fumed.

Jesse was headed this way, it was time to shine. When he was close I got up and stopped in front of him, he smiled and sighed, "Nice to see you Cole."

"Shut up Jesse you know why I'm here." I miffed.

"No, I don't." He smiled.

"Where's Kyle?" I asked looking around.

"He's home safe; after all he is my boy. Where's your team?"

"Around,"

"I know what happened to them, poor Derek getting shot and the rest of them getting blown to bits, yeah, Cory told me."

Joey, Sean and Derek stepped up to him blocking his whole left side of escape.

"What Cory forgot to mention was, Derek was shot in the arm, and my team snuck out the back before they were blown to bits." I informed.

He looked us through, "Well damn, what are you going to do? Kill me right here?"

"It's worth a shot." James said as Dane and he came up blocking his right side of escape.

We were surrounding him, no escape, and our eyes were locked on him. He looked at James and tried to smile, "You're supposed to be—"

"Dead?" James cut him off, "Yeah, I know."

"Listen Jesse, we can do this the easy way or we can do this the hard way... Your choice," I explained.

He sighed shakily and looked up at me, "Let's do this the hard way."

Within a split second he reached in his coat and pulled out a pistol then aimed it at his head and pulled the trigger. His lifeless body fell to the ground as people around us screamed and ran.

We stood there in shock as sirens wailed in the distance, blood from his head had gotten on me and it seemed as if we had killed him. James and Joey came up to me and said something I couldn't understand, their voice seemed low and demonic. I still couldn't make out what just and was happening but I followed them back to the van anyway.

By the time we got into the van two police cruisers were already rushing to the scene. James snapped as he started the van, cursing and yelling because the plan went wrong.
CHAPTER 21

He went off down the street calmly so he wouldn't cause mayhem when we were leaving, when we got away from the crime scene he started back up again.

"That was unexpected." Sean said as it went quiet.

James sighed, "The son of a bitch knew what was coming to him."

"He's still going to hell." I pointed out.

He laughed, "Yeah." He made a left turn, "I still wish I could torture him."

It went silent and he looked us through, "Just kidding." We laughed.

"Hopefully that was really him." Sean said.

"What do you mean?" Derek asked.

"You know, that could have been one of his clones." Sean informed.

I shook my head, "Like an alien clone?"

He nodded, "Right!"

"Hey! Hey! Stop!" Joey yelled.

"What?" James asked confused.

"Stop the van!" Joey jumped out when the van stopped. He went up to a parked police cruiser; the officer was arresting someone, putting them in the back of their car.

"Hey!" Joey yelled.

The officer turned and I saw it was Josh in his police uniform; I balled my fist and got out of the van then headed towards him. Joey caught me and held me back.

"You son of a bitch!" I yelled at Josh.

He shut the cruiser door and came closer, "Cole, I don't want to hurt you."

"But you'd put your own little brother in the hospital?" I asked.

"What?"

"Yeah, I know what you did!" Joey pushed me back.

"Stop it! He didn't put me in the hospital!" Joey yelled.

"What do you mean?" I was confused.

"I mean, he brought me to the hospital because I was jumped." He explained, "I tried to tell you but you assumed he did it."

"I'm his brother; I wouldn't put him in the hospital." Josh informed.

"Sean said you two had a fight." I said.

"Yeah, I kind of said it wrong." Sean bit his lip.

I looked over to him and Derek hanging out of the back of the van and he grinned, "Sorry."

I turned and rolled my eyes, "Dammit Sean."

Derek smacked him on the back of the head, "You white fool!"

"We did have a fight." Josh explained, "It wasn't anything big."

"Yeah, we made up afterwards, that's when he found me in an alley. I got jumped by two huge mother fuckers." Joey said, "They took my money and my wallet, the bastards."

"We cool Cole?" Josh held out his hand.

I sighed and came closer to him, "Yeah,"

We shook hands and I brought him in closer for a hug, we hugged awkwardly and let go. I gave him a thumbs up and he laughed and I smiled.

I looked at Joey and went back to the van to leave them alone to talk. I hung out with Sean and Derek to snoop. I couldn't help it.

"Listen bro," Joey started, "There was mayhem at the police station."

"Don't worry about it; just keep your head low." Josh responded.

"You don't like me getting into shit like that do you?" He asked.

Josh laughed, "No, I don't like it because one day you might not make it back. Kind of like the job I have."

"Why don't you join the business?"

"Pssh!"

Joey laughed, "I know."

"I don't know why you even tell me about this thing, isn't it a rule to not tell anyone?"

"Fuck the rules."

Josh smiled, "Yeah."

Joey looked back at us and I tried not to be all obvious.

"I should go." He said turning back.

"Yeah me too, I should get this crook back to the so-called police station, couldn't you guys have not use so much C4 geez." Josh turned and opened the driver's door.

"Yeah sorry about that," Joey smiled.

"See you around bro." he shut the door and started the cruiser.

"Deuces," Joey put up the peace sign as he drove of down the street.

"Aye Captain Bob!" I called and he turned, "Come on!"

He ran to the back of the van and got in then shut the door; James started the van and sped down the street.
CHAPTER 22

"Here we are." James pulled up in front of our old safe house.

We got out and approached the front door.

"You three coming in?" I asked.

Dane shook his head, "Nah we got to go."

Joey jumped up, "Wait! We forgot Ace!"

"How could we forget Ace!" Sean cried, "How!"

"Chill! He's already in there!" Dane informed.

"How?" Joey asked.

"I had a friend pick him up." James said.

"Yeah he was stinking up my safe house." Dane shook his head.

"Screw you." Joey rolled his eyes.

"What? He was." Dane informed, "At least I didn't call him an 'it'."

"And thank you for that." Joey bowed.

"Okay see you gay boys around eh?" James went up and hugged each of us. Tightly I might add.

When he was done hugging us, he got in the van and waited for Dane and Vern. Unlike James, Dane or Vern didn't hug us, a simple handshake and a pat on the back from them.

"It was nice working with you guys, see you around." He shook my hand and gave me an envelope, "Take care of yourself."

I nodded and took it, stuffing it into my pants. He smiled and walked to the van, getting in the passenger side.

Vern came up to me and shook my hand after going to everyone else and said, "I was never going to kill you guys, I liked you too much." He walked back to the van and got in the back.

James started the van and they drove off down the street, we waved to them as they turned the corner and left our sights.

I will never forget the job we had done together, he was my hero, and I did what I did because of him, the first and the best Triton agent. And I hugged him. And it was weird.

We looked at each other and smiled, I knew I had to tell them about Ken, they weren't going to like it, and they may even hate Ken after what he did.

Joey looked at me with a blank expression on his face, "They took our van."

EPILOGUE

A black Scion FR-S pulled to a stop in front of Sweet Clean Rehab Center, Joey Walker and Cole Phillips got out and approached the front door with smiles on their faces.

Kenneth Meginley came up to them looking fresh and a new man from the months he was in rehab. Sean Williams and Derek Johnson got out of the car and approached, their smiles faded.

Ken gave a look of sorrow and apology, he was sorry for what he'd done to the crew. They faced each other and smiled then hugged, they missed him, no matter how much of an ass he could be. They soon began to talk,

"How you been man?" Derek asked Ken, a smile on his face.

"Good," Ken responded, "I made some new friends, how'd you four make out without me?"

"Like birds in trees." Sean joked.

"More like a hand in a wasps nest." Cole corrected.

"That bad?" Ken asked. They nodded.

"We're a wreck without you." Joey admitted, "Glad your back."

"Yeah," They all agreed, "Glad your home."

"Then what're we waiting for? Let's party!" Ken cheered walking to the car.

"Wait a minute Willis." Cole called, "Come here."

Ken looked at him, "What?"

"I got to tell you something." He called him over to the side.

Ken looked nervous, unknown of what was going to be said and scared if it was something he doesn't want to hear. He and Cole talked off to the side,

"Listen man, you know what happened between us and the agency?" Cole asked.

"Yeah, they betrayed us." Ken answered.

"Well James and us, we eliminated the agency, took them and Jesse out a couple months ago."

"I saw that on the news, that was bad ass." Ken smiled.

Cole nodded, "Yeah it was. But listen, the agency is no more and that means... We're no more."

It was silent as the words sunk in. Ken looked him in the eye, "What?"

Cole looked down, "Sorry man."

"So, we're not a team no more?"

"We're regular people."

"That sucks."

Cole nodded, "Yep."

"Is that it?" He asked.

"Yeah, you seem calm."

"I've learned to control my anger." he sighed.

"Oh yeah, one more thing... Kyle was Jesse's son." Cole ran from him.

Ken clenched his fist, "I'm not going to freak."

"And he played us!" Cole added hiding behind Joey.

"Son of a bitch!" Ken ran after him.

They circled Joey as Ken tried to get at Cole.

###

