

DARKENED

...Love doesn't tell lies

DANIEL C. KINGS

DARKENED

PUBLISHED BY

Patola Technologies Co.

Shop B2, ABO Shopping Complex,

Delta State University, Abraka.

ISBN: 978-978-53461-8-3

(c) 2016

Printed and bound by

B&B Printing Press,

No 32, Oduselu Street,

Itire, Surulere, Lagos State.

Cover illustration: Daniel C. Kings

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or translated in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise without prior permission of the owner.

DANIEL C. KINGS

2348165930190

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Dedication------------------------------------------------------------ 4

Prologue-------------------------------------------------------------- 5

A deadly dance [a poem] ------------------------------------------ 8

Till death do us part------------------------------------------------9

A call at midnight---------------------------------------------------27

The bait---------------------------------------------------------------54

Wounded--------------------------------------------------------------77

Deception--------------------------------------------------------------88

EXTRAS--------------------------------------------------------------103
DEDICATION

This book is dedicated to He who was, He who is and He who is to come.

PROLOGUE

A DAY OF SMALL THINGS

February 10th, 1995. Green Gardens, Lekki, Lagos, Nigeria.

Standing afar off, the stony grave yard looked 'dead empty'. Joseph, who had finished saying a prayer, watched carefully from a distance; his mother knelt like one 'provoked in love', her eyes seemed to affirm that even in her 'multitude' of thoughts, she had comfort. Her knees cowered before a rock, while the field looked very green. Joseph had entirely witnessed this the umpteenth time. His dad, who he never met, died before his 'mother' adopted him. Though, he 'lost' his biological father eight years ago, he never felt 'fatherless'. He looked at his mother in a very concerned manner-why was his mother always visiting his father's grave? Why was she always sad here? He wished they would stop visiting this place, if all it could bring was sad memories. Even at such a young age, Joseph understood that they had gone through a lot. If the Lord had not been their help, their souls would dwell in a realm of silence.

Now tired of seeing his mother in tears, he let the spirit of love lead. He ran towards her, while she stood and received him. Then he said to her,

"Mom, why are you doing this to us?"

His mother dried her eyes and let her son lean affectionately on her chest. Then they took a 'new' walk to the riverside. His mother looked at him,

"Joseph, all I am trying to do is to pray." She softly remarked. Now, Joseph knew that his mother always believed she could receive anything she asked for. She patted his head, "I don't know everything to pray for, but I lean on my comforter, the Holy Spirit." She lifted up her hand and as she spoke, her forefinger stood firm against the light, but noisy breeze.

Joseph was bothered, why was his mother full of wise sayings like Old King Solomon? His mother reached for him and they walked farther into the old narrow path, till they arrived at a point. Joseph noticed this place was surrounded by beautiful oak trees. They both stood firmly on a rock now, Joseph watched in admiration.

"Mom, I like this place!" He exclaimed, grinning from ear to ear. His mother was staring at something else. He noticed her brown eyes seemed to pierce through the soft air, as she watched nodding.

"Joseph," her faint voice quivered, "can you see?" She lifted him up, her hands pressing side by side against his young ribs, while his feet struggled for balance silently-now he could see the same grave yard from a distance, but so differently; so many graves arranged themselves on the earth like hard blunt gravels scattered on smooth sand. They could both see the fast moving clouds.

She let her maroon coloured hair fall, while she lifted him up towards the sky as much as she could. Tears welled up in her eyes. She swallowed hard and brought him back to the grassy earth. She knelt beside him now, looking into his eyes.

"Joseph, please promise me that you will not make the wrong choice and die unfulfilled. Promise me that you will love the Lord, forsaking all you are."

He felt a tear well up in his eye too. It was time; it was the right time to let her know what he experienced a night before.

"Mother I will- and..." he blinked, "...God called me last night." He paused to give her a reassuring smile. "God needs me to be a preacher-I'll follow him mama, I'll follow him."

A DEADLY DANCE

Arms locked in arms; the church has fallen for the world.

While the music of near-doom plays, both dancers have forgotten the word.

This dance is not love, this fondness is not trust.

One is vulnerable, the other is becoming unbeatable.

Oh! Who can save her from this deadly dance?

Will she hear the 'Jesus-pass'?

Has she forgotten her first love?

Can she remember the Lord's voice?

No 'joys' can this partner offer.

Let her stop this dance and reach for her muffler.

It's time to go church, also pick up your sandal.

The door is open forth, you need a revival.

This poem is written by

Daniel C. Kings

C HAPTER ONE

Till death do us part

March 30th, 2012. Stoke Town, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria.

The blue car drove to a halt. Joseph Adams turned off the radio and bowed down for a 'word of prayer'- he always did that before ministering, when he was out time. He peered into the car's mirror. He looked different now; he had a fashionable appearance and a nice haircut- unlike that bald, old fashioned preacher everybody knew on television. He reached for his bible after taking in a deep breath. He had taken a long break-he had actually subjected himself to fasting and prayer in a distant rented apartment, located in the outskirts of Spain. Joseph Adams had become a successful preacher in Africa, after twenty years of faithful service to God. He wished his mother was alive, but he knew her demise was part of God's plan. He had a feeling that she was right in God's arms and God was making her fulfilled with so much peace and joy. He alighted from his car and sighed. Joseph Adams was five feet tall, light skinned and handsome, he had these unique 'soft-peering' eyes that complemented his striking appearance. After locking his car, he glanced at his watch and headed for the building opposite him. The place was really filled up as he expected, it was great that he parked his car at a farther distance or he would not have anywhere to park it. With his keys in his fist, he marched towards the entrance. A beautiful lady in a red dress was standing at the door. She flashed him a 'big' smile.

"Welcome sir," she greeted humbly. Then she put on a stern look, "...your ticket?"

Joseph Adams smiled.

"I am a guest minister."

She was thrown off balance by his reply-maybe it was because he was too youthful and cheerful for the stereotyped; strong, reserved and stern looking ministers, many people understood. He just smiled again; he was used to such remarks. He had encountered so many of 'them' during his early years in ministry. The lady took a glance at a clip board, then looked up,

"Are you Dr. Andrew Johnson?"

"I am Joseph Adams."

She was taken aback by a momentary shock. Then she laughed at herself, staring into his eyes.

"I'm so sorry, oh! I should have recognised you earlier."

"No problem."

Joseph chuckled and he followed her to the large hall. He met an usherette there. Though, this lady was rather too robust for a female, she had nice mannerisms and was indeed beautiful .She greeted him warmly,

"We need you right now sir. You are going to the altar now, for a word of exhortation." She sounded as if she was tensed when she spoke. He gave her a reassuring smile, to let her know it was all right. They went back stage; she gave him a microphone, "Five minutes, sir."

The curtains opened as he walked further, into the stage. The crowd was startling. He saw thousands seated before him- but it was obvious he wasn't in charge, God was.

"Praise the Lord!" He roared. The crowd responded, stood and waved. "...We're here tonight for one thing, and you know what it is?"He stepped away from the lectern and looked directly at the thrilled crowd,

"...Christ! He's the reason why we are all here, and one thing before I leave-we all came here to worship God, but I tell you worship cannot be done by us, worship is by the spirit and in truth, we just gives ourselves up ." He nodded, "...it's not about us, and it is all about...HIM!" The crowd cheered. "It's about His glory, it's about His greatness, it is all about-" he paused and lifted up his hand, then shouted, "...God!" The crowd rejoiced. People were shouting "Hallelujah" and "Amen"; the hall was filled with excitement. Just then, the master of the ceremony, who was a tall young man, appeared on the stage and called out;

"Grace Night!"

The people responded,

"...A night of wonder!"

The gentle man smiled. Dressed in a nice looking tuxedo, he naughtily captured the audience with his diamond studded wrist watch. He smiled and continued,

"Praise the Lord! We have a lot to offer tonight- but before we commence, I'II like to call on my co-host, she's such a darling." He smiled "... and she is no other person but Yvonne!" The crowd clapped. Then a lady in a white, long, glittering gown appeared on the podium. She flashed a genuine smile and shouted,

"Hello Nigeria! Hello Africa!" The crowd roared in excitement. "...Are Americans here tonight?" She tucked in a loose strand of hair, behind her ear and grinned. "Hello America!" The crowd responded. Many Caucasians blew whistles.

The Master of the ceremony stepped forward,

"Oh. I know we are so excited tonight and I hope I'm not forgetting this unique set of people -Praise the Lord Asia!" They responded with a joyous noise. "...I think Asia will win tonight. Okay, let's try Australia and Europe. God bless Australia! God bless Europe!" He said out loud and pointed the microphone out to the crowd. After the noise had died down, he continued.

"...Asia has this tonight and surprisingly," he looked at his assistant, she winked and continued.

"The first worshipper is Michael Tzu. He's from China and he is doing the song 'Amazing Grace'." The lights were put out and put on again, revealing a very tall man. He had the typical Chinese look: high cheekbones, small eyes and rounded nose, but he wore a unique, distinct smile. As he started the song, he shocked the crowd with his gifted tenor vocals and his unique riffs and runs-The spirit of God also blessed many lives through the song. The next performance was done by "The Rainbow Band". They were really amazing; the Holy Ghost was no doubt the source of such indescribable harmony. The anchors came to the stage for the third time now. The Mc Sighed,

"Are you enjoying this? If you are, say Alleluia!" the crowd responded passionately.

"Oh!" The female anchor, Yvonne, voiced. "I know we would love to see the next performance and it is by the HOSANNA CHOIR! They are doing a Nigerian song, 'Alagbara' by Onos! Give God a clap offering."

The 'Hosanna' mass choir appeared on stage and the crowd applauded. A male conductor properly positioned the choir and handed the microphone over to a lady, who quietly stepped forward .The instrumentalists played an 'intro'. Then the beautiful lady started the song. As she sang, the crowd 'melted.' The large hall was quiet, not because of her thrilling vocals or the divine lyrics, but she sang entirely from the spirit. This performance was incredible. After the performance ended, the audience stood up and clapped heartily. While Joseph was clapping, he was not hundred percent himself. Ever since the choir stepped in, he kept hearing a voice in his head.

Joseph it's time.

He wasn't really sure of what this meant, but soon enough, the visions he had been seeing for a while now, 'clouded' his spirit. He swallowed hard. Was this what it was about? Was this the reason for his presence here? Could this be the reason for his blatant refusal to leave even after his ministration, to Aja where he was needed? He couldn't help but ask himself So many questions. Just then, 'her' name flashed right before him in a surprising manner;

CHICHI OLISEH

He was about bracing up in obedience, when he wondered for the first time in fulfilling his usual task; how could he do this? How could he tell a complete Stranger, God's plan for her life-Even if he was famous as Joseph Emeka Adams-was it enough backing to give her that kind of information about herself? He kept asking himself, "How would she take this?" Then he heard the calm voice once again,

Joseph, it's time.

All of a sudden, he realised there was no point of arguing and said, "God I'm sorry." He felt an urge to walk towards a door- an exit from the hall; he knew that he was being led, so he walked briskly to the door. It led to a hallway and on it sides, it had many doors. He kept on walking. Then all of a sudden, he heard a noise. Quite eager to see what was happening, he turned behind; half of his body lunged forward, so that he could have a glimpse of what was happening, as his body partially leaned against a wall. A man and a lady stood beside a door, they were ranting- it seemed as if they were not satisfied with their tantrum, so they started exchanging vulgar words. From experience, Joseph knew the lady was from the Hausa ethnic group in Nigeria and the man looked like an African American. Though the man was muscular and olive skinned, he was rather short and his 'odd' dreadlocks gave him a very rugged 'unlikeable' look against his smooth skin. The lady was slender and pretty. She had a long, natural hair, and a beautiful skin. They both looked very young and foolish. The American scowled at her,

"You are so dumb, huh? You got me? Very dumb! Isn't anything in your damn, dead skull." The lady, who was almost in tears, kept holding her floral gown as if she was trying to retain a sense of dignity that was at the moment, incomprehensible. "You are an ill b***h!" He yelled and spat at her and was about to leave, when she seized his polo in anger.

"You irresponsible fool! You have been lying to me for years that- I was just a fool to assume..." then uncontrollable tears rolled down her cheeks, "...to a.......a.....assume," she stammered. "...that you LOVED ME!" In frustration, she tousled her hair and then screamed at the top of her voice. "You got me pregnant and deflowered me-I was such an idiot to believe all the lies you wooed me with-I hate myself for leaving church-it's caused all this emptiness inside of me. Refugee! You told me we would be together in Miami. If not for this programme, I would have believed that you were still there. Homeless LIAR-you know, girls like me wish they would never meet or fall in love with immature street urchins like you-"

"...Get your dead body off me." He interrupted, gritting his teeth.

He pummelled her hand off his shirt and shook her violently. Then he threw her to the floor, watching her back slam against the tiled ground. Her legs spread weakly and she lay on the floor, writhing in pain. This was when Joseph came out of his hiding place .Despite he was very close to them; he was pretty much non- existent to them. The American guy kicked her and when Joseph tried to intervene, the guy jabbed him in the nose, then he turned to her,

"F**k you bitch! You got me? F**k you and your f**king mama. I'm out of here." He turned away, making an immoral hand gesture. Then in a wicked laugh, he yelled, "Hope you'll be dead before morning." He ran off. Joseph wiped the blood from his 'now' bleeding nose. He wondered why many women chose to be girl friends-to endure the slavery and manipulation 'behind the scene'. He remembered his mother's saying:

"A wise girl would keep dirty- minded -fine -faced men off her body till she becomes a wonderful bride."

Joseph helped the girl sit up.

"Sorry. What's your name?"

"Sarah Danjuma."

She looked at him in bewilderment, "Thank you." Then she turned to her knuckles and started sobbing. He smiled and offered her his handkerchief. Then he started on a soft tone,

"Sarah, God knows how terrible you feel." These words seemed to calm her down in a strange manner. She turned to him,

"Do I deserve God's attention?" She sighed, as if waiting for an answer, one to make her feel back on her feet again. Joseph sighed,

"No." He said. She then burst into tears, gnashing her teeth as she cried. Joseph laid his hand on her back "...But He's willing to give you it and more, God is willing to listen to you even when others don't want to. He's willing to comfort you, when you feel down. He's willing to take you into his arms, when you feel lonely. That's why he can do anything for you, even giving up His 'self' to be 'butchered' on the cross for your redemption. He looked into her eyeballs. "Do you want to be saved?" She looked up.

"Yes, help me—I am so unclean." He wiped her tears with his palm. They held hands, as she repeated after him,

"Father, I come before you, I am a sinner. Have mercy upon me. I welcome you into my life. Take all of me. I give all I am to you Lord, in Jesus name, Amen."

He hugged her. Then he gave her a Mountain Top Life Devotional and his bible. He looked into her eyes,

"Sarah, I know you have stopped attending church. Try and make it, not 'just' to any church around, but a bible believing and practicing church." He pointed to the bible on her lap, "This is the King James 1611 version and the undiluted word of God-read it, study, live by it and keep it. It a treasure".

These were the last words from the mouth of Joseph to Sarah Danjuma before he walked down the hallway. God led him to an entrance and he found himself at a balcony. He could see the silhouette of a lady, she was certainly the lady that took the solo of Onos's song; 'Alagbara'. He was at the right place, at the right time.

He moved slowly as if he was counting his steps. Then he looked at her closely and she turned to him, as if she was waiting for this. Standing, and her face glittering in the moonlight, she smiled. Her hands lay across her chest, while her left hand clutched some books. She turned to look into his eyes. Joseph spoke first,

"Hello, good day." He said nodding. Then just in time, he reached for her pack of books which were about to fall. He handed it over to her. She smiled.

"Thank you."

Her voice sounded so beautiful. She smiled again, "You know, these books are really some gospel hymnals. I've been 'trying' to sell them for some time now. Well I've really sold a lot. You know, maybe it's because 'sanguines' like me, are good at sale jobs. She blinked, "Pardon my manners, good evening sir." He smiled broadly. He was quite impressed that she was a responsible sanguine. He clearly remembered that eye opener; Spirit Controlled Temperament by Tim Lahaye. She smiled back. "I was blessed by those words on the altar, they really encouraged me. I wish I had come earlier. You know, I was a minute late for the speech". Joseph swallowed

"Umm, well---" Joseph wondered why he sounded so childish. He chided himself,

Come on, Joseph behave well! Do not be afraid.

Joseph continued.

"...we bless God; I was also empowered by that inspiring, musical performance."

"God is so good." She said looking up. Then she turned to him, "By the way, I am Chichi Oliseh." She said in a very feminine voice.

"Joseph Adams." He shook her hands firmly.

She looked quite surprised, and then shocked.

"You are? Oh! She grinned and looked at him again "Don't tell me-really? Are you the preacher on TV?"

Joseph nodded. She winked, "I am so famous already," they both chuckled. Joseph pursed his lips,

"Do l really look-different?"

"Yeah and more handsome"

Then she turned away, as if she remembered something. She looked at the stars, which dotted the sky in a solemn manner. Joseph felt a confirmation in his spirit, but he could see she was not happy.

Is this the right time to-

She interrupted his thought.

"I know why you are here." She said, looking at her fingers. The aura of joy and energy she had died down all of a sudden. Her 'gloomy' nature surprised him. She continued, "God told me, but—but," she stammered. "I, I—Can't." Joseph was disappointed. The atmosphere had suddenly become quiet and sorrowful. She turned to him. Joseph could see tears in her eyes.

"I don't -deserve, I don't deserve..." as she struggled to say this, tears ran down her cheeks, she couldn't even finish her statement. She swallowed hard. She tousled her hair and let her ebony virgin curls fall in unneeded twists, and then she looked away.

Joseph felt heartbroken and dismayed. Many questions ran through his mind as he watched her. The pessimistic tendency of his melancholic temperament seemed to manifest now.

It won't work! Why now? It's over!

Then he remembered God was with him. He moved closer to her, she withdrew and looked at him,

"The thing is, I am not qualified. You know I'm not the best, maybe-"She missed a step and slipped helplessly, the books in her hands flung aimlessly across the patterned tiled floor. He stooped to help her, as she struggled for balance. Then he started gathering all her books, until she gave him a concerned look.

"Joseph?"

He then discovered that his nose was bleeding again. He was about to reach for his handkerchief, when she stopped the blood flow with her fingers. Joseph looked into her eyes; it was time to 'speak.' He noticed her eyes looked sunken from the tears.

"Chichi," He started calmly and went down on his knees, "...Don't be afraid I do not deserve 'this' too. Look no one does. We have all erred from Christ at one point in our lives." He noticed that she was getting herself back, "...Chichi, God revealed this to me and convinced-" He took a deep breath and said in the most masculine voice she had ever heard,

"Will you marry me?"

Sept 2nd 2012.Virgin Island, Rudolf Farms, Scotland.

Chichi watched Caroline help her brush her hair and gently apply powder on her face. Chichi looked quite troubled, she was in an embroidered, white wedding gown. Her wrists rested on her laps and both women looked at the mirror. Caroline was about tying Chichi's hair into a bun, when she noticed her frown. Her bridesmaid was bothered. She sat beside her,

"Chi girl, what's the problem? Talk to me."

Chichi looked into her eyes,

"I had a bad dream yesterday night." Caroline's eyes widened. Chichi turned to stare at her knuckles.

"It was a dark cold night," she started. Caroline held on to her hands, as if she could understand what Chichi really felt. "I could see myself running wildly in a wedding gown, I almost lost balance. My heart raced, my feet ached, when I couldn't run with the stilettos anymore, I threw them off and continued running." She sighed. "The farther I ran, the more confused I felt. The darkness was getting thicker, I could barely breath. I felt 'empty' and confused, but I kept on running. Then I stopped because I couldn't go any further ..."she blinked. "I-I started screaming, I kept on screaming Joseph's name at the top of my voice." Caroline took a deep breath.

"What happened next?" She voiced softly.

Chichi pursed her lips. "The second dream." Tears welled up in her eyes. "...This looked worse. In it, I was walking with Joseph and leading him to..." the thought of what Chichi was about to say, made tears roll down her cheeks. Then she tried to wipe it off with a napkin. Caroline held her tighter, trying her best to console her. Chichi blinked, "...to the grave." Caroline was taken aback by shock. In frustration, Chichi clenched her napkin still in tears.

"I don't know why I'm just seeing bad luck- I never really-I don't understand..."

"Ssshh," Caroline voiced. "...let's pray. It's okay."

The two belles were humbled to prayer, hands in hands they prayed whole heartedly and after wards, Caroline put a hand on Chichi shoulders,

"You are a virtuous woman; don't let anything wear you down, mmh? Come on, I want the usual Chichi." Chichi laughed, "I'm always here! I just couldn't get that off my mind since last night."

"It's past now; God has taken care of-"

She was interrupted, as a petite lady walked into the room. The lady's outfit gave the 'obvious' impression that she was the chief bridesmaid of the event. She stood akimbo, wearing an offensive pout, and then she swung her Malaysian hair proudly to her shoulder, looking stern and defiant.

"Oh! Not again." She pursed her lips and shrugged. "Caroline you are too preachy." Then she put on a pretentious smile, "No one is a sinner here." Her phone beeped. She took a glance at her cell phone, and loudly exclaimed, "Oh! My baby boy! Chuks, can't you even stay a moment without me? Oh!" She turned to both of them, "The church is waiting."

"Okay." Chichi said. Bisola, her chief bridesmaid forced a smile and went outside to receive her call. Chichi turned to Caroline,

"Bisola can be such a 'pain' at times. Do not give her much attention." Caroline smiled and Chichi hugged her.

"I wonder where I would have been without a friend like you."

"Come on, you can always be in Joseph's arms!" Caroline joked.

They were both outside now. Joseph was standing before on oak tree, looking as handsome as ever. Chichi smiled and walked towards him. He held her hand affectionately,

"Beauty, how's it going?

"Handsome, it's all good."

The husband-to-be who was in a perfectly tailored suit, raised a brow at his bride.

"Dear, are you ready for this?"

Chichi pursed her lips. Then she looked into his eyeballs,

"Yes I am."

As they walked down the aisle, the congregation clapped joyfully. They were both holding hands now. Joseph sighed and looked at her in an unbeatable masculinity. Chichi leaned closer to him and smiled. The place was filled with much love; it looked more than a wedding. It looked like an unbreakable bond.

Few steps into saying 'I do,' some minutes before entering into 'oneness', five seconds before the stepping on the altar, they were both anxious-that anxiety borne out of true love. Both love birds couldn't help but stare at each other. Marriage is really a beautiful thing, but it's more beautiful, when you marry the right person.

C HAPTER TWO

A CALL AT MIDNIGHT

August 30th , 2013. David Hills, Aja, Lagos.

Joseph awoke. He wondered why the alarm had not sounded. He stretched his body, yawning as he did. After a word of prayer, he flung the sheets off Him and yawned again. He glanced at the pendulum clock and noticed that he had overslept. Chichi still asleep, rolled from one corner of the bed. As she stroked the pillow, her eyes opened. She turned over to look at him, and then she closed her eyes again and stretched. Joseph stood up and walked towards his wardrobe. Chichi sat up, after kneeling to pray,

"Sweetie, good morning."

Joseph turned to her and smiled; what a morning beauty she was! The sun was glistening now and its rays were very visible in the small, but exquisitely, furnished bedroom.

"The woman of my life."

Chichi stood up and took a glance at the mirror. Then she gave him a fake frown.

"Is that what you tell your wife when you are almost late for your leadership class?"

"No one,'' he said and he moved towards her, putting his hand around her waist. ''... No human has a right to stop me from pouring out my heart to my dearest." He looked into her eyes.

"Mmh.'' She voiced, looking into his eyes more deeply. "What if I say,'' she put her hands over his shoulder. "...You just have fifteen minutes to get dressed?" He laughed. She seized his arm and playfully dragged him into the bathroom. She shut the door behind.

"Five minutes!"

She hummed a song as she walked to the kitchen.

Fifteen minutes later, they were having breakfast; wheat bread, scrambled eggs and mango juice. Chichi coughed,

"Sweetie, How about Bisola spending the weekend here?" Joseph took a sip from his tumbler, gently swallowed and gave a look of disapproval,

"I don't like her." He said truthfully.

"I don't know why."

"Dear, I just want you to stop hanging at with,'' he shrugged. ''...bad friends since you are born again."

"That's too harsh." She tucked in a loose strand of hair behind her ear.

"Bisola is my childhood friend-I mean I've known her for a very long time now,'' she gesticulated. ''We went to the same-''

He interrupted moving his head in a- don't-matter-it-is-not-important- manner.

"I know you've practically spent your whole life," he shrugged. "...or decades with her but," he lowered his voice to a whisper. "...Bisola is not saved. She goes to clubs every weekend, and she's a smoker, an alcoholic –she even sleeps around." He sighed,

"She just stopped smoking and she only takes-"

He nodded slightly, "Two bottles of beer every week right? It's enough to take her to hell."

She sighed. "Sweetie, let's just say you don't like her-it's not about this 'saved' issue. I'm not so close to her anyway. We've not 'actually' talked after we got married-apart from her call yesterday night. Bisola needs to leave her neighbourhood. She was almost robbed a week ago. Can she spend some days with us before getting a house here, at David Hills? ''

"I don't want her here- I am sorry- I' m acting...." he paused, placing a hand on his forehead, "it's for our own good. I love Bisola, but I have a feeling that something evil will happen if she does come here, I don't know but I feel it.''

"Sweetie, if you say so." Chichi pouted, looking unsatisfied. "...I 'II let her know.'' He looked at her,

"I will do anything right to put a smile on your face- Bisola means trouble."

A car horn from outside interrupted them. They both turned towards the window. Chichi recognized the car anytime. She turned to Joseph, poker faced.

"Bisola is here."

The lady in a black dress sighed, as she turned off the engine. Peering into the car's mirror, the twenty eight year old 'posh' lady arranged her unnatural, Peruvian hairdo. She dabbed a red lipstick and said to herself,

"This is what I call SEXY."

Bisola alighted from the black Range Rover and walked towards the building ahead of her. She put on her dark sunglasses at a stop, while she dangled her car keys for 'super' attention and flaunted a catwalk. When she was close enough, she sighted Chichi and her husband at the doorway. She could see Chichi kissing Joseph on his cheek, handling over a briefcase to him and waving him goodbye. Bisola crossed Joseph's path. She smiled at him,

"Good morning, sweet heart." She accented in her rather thick, but feminine voice.

"Good morning.'' He replied firmly, but in a smile, then he walked past. Bisola walked hurriedly to the door step where Chichi was and vociferated,

''Baby girl!''

"Oh my goodness!" Chichi exclaimed. "...Who do we have here?" Chichi said smiling.

Bisola took off her sunglasses, twirled proudly and shook her hair.

"I'm still one and only girl every guy wished they had, I'm still L-A-D-Y-Lady B."

Chichi clapped. 'Wow!''

"Yeah baby. Come on, let's go in."

They stepped into the sitting room. Chichi sighed and gently locked the door behind her.

"Welcome in to my den, feel at home." Chichi smiled, "I really missed you."

Bisola eyed her playfully, "You eh!'' She said, shaking her head. ''Ever since you got married, you forgot everybody, mmh?"

"Come on, it's not what you think."

"Na so," she said wearing a doubtful look. "...let's talk joor." They both sat on the silver coloured sofa.

Bisola crossed her legs and sighed."Mmh." Then she looked at Chichi, dazed.

"Your husband fine sha."

Chichi threw a stuffed pillow at her and laughed out loud.

"You can really be something else Bisola!"

"Come on, is it a crime to appreciate such..." She completed the sentence with a wink.

"You eh! Are you not the one enjoying Chuks, your fine bobo?"

"Chuks?'' Bisola hissed. "It was a mistake. That guy is a pain! You need-he is so useless. I took him from the gutters, cleaned him up, gave him nice clothes, cash and a life and guess what he could repay me with?" Bisola hissed again.

"What?" Chichi asked gently.

"I got back from work about three Pm, fair enough.'' Tears welled up in her eyes, "I found him,' she turned to Chichi. "...on top of Sekinat, Our HOUSE GIRL!"

Chichi was dumbfounded.

"But-I knew Chuks to be the love of your life-a disciplined man who devoted his life to you.''

"Men," She threw up her hands in the air, sobbing. "..All men are mischievous, they always have something up their sleeve.''

"Look,' Chichi said shaking her head. "Chuks is 'part' of your past, now. Your Mr right is on his way. Stop wasting your 'expensive' tears on Chuks." Bisola wiped her tears with her handkerchief and leaned on Chichi. Chichi patted her hair and drew her closer,

"It's alright."

Soon Bisola fell asleep on her shoulder. Chichi just prayed that Bisola would wake up on time. She had just imagined what would happen if Joseph met her lying on the sofa. Her prayer was answered and Bisola's phone rang. Bisola rubbed her eyes,

"My....my....phone"

"I'II get that for you." Chichi offered.

Chichi walked to the centre table, where Bisola's pouch was lying.

Chichi unzipped it and took her cell phone. It was a phone call. She could see a picture of a man and above it the lettering;

'Jake calling'

Whoever this man was, he 'awed' Chichi. She had always thought her husband was the most handsome man she had ever seen, but this sure looked like a match. She quickly' brought' herself back.

You shouldn't be doing this.

She handed the phone over to Bisola and watched Bisola chat heartily on the phone with this 'stranger'. When the call ended, Bisola looked at her smiling.

"He's my cousin-Do you remember- I told you of this famous music producer that brought the likes of Annie Dollar, Jezy Peters, Chelsea weaver and Cassandra Jones into the limelight? He's the one-Jake weaver,'' she said excitedly. "...he also writes books and he produces great movies- he's really super talented.'' She winked. "I've missed him. He's arriving today from UK; I've got to pick him up. So babe, I am off."

Chichi felt like the happiest woman in the world right now.

"Alright dear, let me accompany you-"

"Don't bother dear." Bisola interrupted, standing up. Her phone rang and she received another call. Still on the phone, she kissed Chichi goodbye, grabbed her purse and left.

Chichi shook her head and smiled. One thing was certain; Bisola was always after the 'Ostentatious', negative side of life. Chichi couldn't help asking herself.

"Can Bisola be a bad influence to a serious Christian?"

September 1st. No 23, David Hills, Aja, Lagos.

The fresh aroma of spiced turkey filled the kitchen. Chichi sighed, as began chopping the onions. She sneezed and sighed again. Then her mind took her on a journey; she reflected on the verse she had read earlier that morning- it was Prov. 23:24-25:

Envy not against the wicked or desire to be with them, for their heart studieth destruction and their mouth talketh mischief.

Ever since Chichi had read that verse, she had not been herself. She felt it was trying to tell her something about her life. She just didn't get what it was pointing at, was she spending time with people who didn't love God? Then she paused, as something struck her mind.

Or is this trying to tell me about-

A loud noise from the sitting room interrupted her. She squinted. It sounded like an alarm. Was the house the alarm ringing? Was someone trying to break in? Chichi feared the unexpected. She rinsed her hands, dried them with the kitchen towel and headed for the sitting room. Then she almost laughed at her fear. She had left the TV blaring on, and a TV program was causing that noise! She looked at the TV- what she saw looked like a concert or something of that sort. Many political dignitaries were present there. It was a biannual celebration. The screaming crowd- they were not in their right minds. They started chanting;

"We love you Annie! We die for you Annie! We live for you Annie!''

Then the 'alarm noise' came from the technical crew as stage effect. They showed an 'under-twenty performer'. What seemed to bother Chichi was not her 'heavy' makeup or her weird laughter, but her skimpy gown which stopped very close to her waist line. The singer had so much energy; maybe that's what motivated the crowd or maybe they had all along been made to believe that such 'obsession' was normal. No doubt, the lady looked beautiful-but maybe Chichi was more interested in her 'essence' than her manipulated looks. The singer was done with cheering her obsessed fans and she moved on to sing her lines. The dim lights suddenly went off and the atmosphere was filled with darkness, such that it could make one shiver. Then as a triangular Beam of light revealed the singer, she started her lines in high emotions:

I was walking down hallway, and then I saw him

I didn't have to that night, but I gave him

She smiled and continued;

Baby I don't care if the world hates me

But I aint gonna be good for no other......

Some skinny girls screamed; "We love you Annie Dollar!''

The singer repeated the chorus, this time with two half -dressed dancers and they started swaying their hips in an unusual manner. She continued with the bridge:

Baby I'm so confused! Baby I'm so confused!

But guess what? I love all of it.

The whole stuff was becoming increasingly disturbing. With skulls lined about on the stage, eerie noises from the technical crew- the thick darkness and blood-like liquid splashing everywhere- since Chichi could not feed herself with such, she reached for the remote control pad, but before she could switch off the TV, the lady tore off her clothes upon the cheering crowd and she screamed,

"I'II Entertain you baby!"

Chichi was dazed. Just then, the doorbell rang. She walked to the Mahogany-polished door and unlocked it and there was her darling husband smiling with his suit jacket resting on his right shoulder. She wondered why she didn't hear his car horn. Then she remembered the deafening noises from the TV and shook her head. She reached for his briefcase. Joseph smiled again,

"How's my wife doing?" Joseph asked, still smiling.

"She's doing great!''

He stopped at the door way, which was quite unusual of him. Joseph stared into his wife's eyes.

"Chichi, I have a surprise package for you."

c

hichi couldn't help shouting as they stood beside the lawn. She hugged him and shut her eyes.

"Sweetie, I hope I am not dreaming"

"No dear, this is REAL."

She opened her eyes and took a good look at the shiny, blue saloon car that was before them. It had a uniqueness that Chichi admired and this was the first car Chichi was getting as her own. She held the car keys tightly,

"Sweetie, thank you so much. What can I do?"

He got on his knees and affectionately held her hands.

"Let's celebrate our one year anniversary on the 2nd of September, tomorrow.'' When Chichi couldn't contain the joy any longer, she put her hands to her face and screamed,

"I LOVE YOU!"

September 2, 2013.West Side Beach, London.

The place was crowded. The venue had an extra-ordinary look; floral Chinese Lanterns ran across the wide expanse of land. The Caribbean décor made the place exquisitely unique, while the wooden poles which formed a part of the outdoor shelter, was brightened with glittering coloured bulbs to near perfection. A friendly zephyr ran across the area, blowing softly at some pink balloons at the centre podium .The centre podium was also erected uniquely and its shelter 'wore' a beautiful African design, while it was floored with a fanciful, white rug. Chichi who was in a dark purple, royal gown, stood beside Joseph, who was cloaked in a manly suit. The master of ceremony who happened to be Joseph's best friend, stood before them. The tall man took some time to view the large number of people. There were more Europeans and very few Africans. Johnson looked around. The canopy ran across the expanse of land in a letter U shape. Johnson smiled and held up the microphone,

"I am so glad that we've come to the most important section of this wedding anniversary. I know we're all excited. If you are, let me hear you say GLORY!" He pointed the microphone to the audience, they roared;

"GLORY!"

"Now I would like to call on Chichi Adams, the woman of the year, to say some words." Chichi stepped forward and the people clapped.

"I just want to thank God for everything. My marriage for the past one year with the love of my life, Joseph, has been wonderful. You know, this is really IMPOSSIBLE to explain, but we've never had a quarrel since we said 'I do'. GOD has been faithful. I'm also using this medium to make a shout out to the number one man in my life; Joseph Adams!'' The crowd applauded. The MC nodded,

"That was wonderful. Now let's hear Joseph.''

Joseph took a walk forward,

"Maybe this pretty woman calls me the number one man in her life. Well, I call her the woman that makes my heart burn in love." The crowd exclaimed. He continued, "...I'm so fortunate to know such a beauty. You know, it is one thing to get married to a beauty, it's another thing getting married to a beauty with brains, but it is a rare thing to marry a virtuous woman with such divine wisdom-GOD HAS GIVEN ME A GIFT." He stretched his hand towards her, "I want to make a shout out to my one and only queen, Chichi Adams.'' After the 'massive' jubilation had died down, Johnson stepped forward.

"It's been a long evening and right now we'll ask the couple some questions.''

They sat and Johnson playfully winked at the smiling couple.

"Firstly, I would like to ask you Chichi, what can you say Joseph is best at-does he help with cooking at all?''

Chichi laughed at loud. She tucked in a loose tuft of hair.

"Well......''

Joseph couldn't help but stare at his wife, as she sat on the king size bed reading her bible by the golden lamp. When she was done, she said a word of prayer. Just then, Chichi caught Joseph's eyes.

"Come on,'' she said hitting him on the arm, ''...stop staring at me."

Joseph chuckled. "I'm I not permitted to?''

"Mmh." She shook her head. "Not really."

He tickled her and they playfully fought with the bedside pillows. Joseph put on the light and sat up,

"Sweetie, you have to board a plane first thing tomorrow. I asked my able PA, Martha, to book a flight and she has done that well.''

Chichi sighed, ''She's such a nice girl.'' Then Chichi put on a sad look, "I would miss you".

Joseph looked serious now,

"Dear, I'II love to stay, but you know I just have to do this for them. You know, it's holding here in London and I've no excuse. I'm one of the founders of the Teachers Annual Conference. I have to be there.'' Chichi touched his chin,

"I know. Don't bother about your selfish wife again, she will do just fine." Joseph's smile "warmed" her heart. She yawned.

"Can we pray now?"

"Alright dear."

The couple stood before God and prayed to Him in one accord. While prayer is the key to maintaining a relevant relationship with God, several times, single and married Christians fall short of true commitment to prayer. God is not some distant personality, He needs to be talked to and He needs a relevant bond with you. He's always loved you more than you can ever love yourself. So why are you holding yourself from Him and letting ignorance and foolishness take a toll on you? Come on, get down on your knees and pour out your heart to your father.

September 3rd. David Hills, Aja, Lagos.

Chichi had just rounded off her prayers. She lay on the bed 'single', but not alone. She felt God's presence all over her, just when she needed it. She wondered where Joseph would be now. Joseph said he would be in London for about three more weeks, could she wait? She smiled. She had to wait. Chichi was about to go to bed, when the words flashed in her mind:

Be careful for nothing

She was still trying to comprehend this, when her phone rang. She grudgingly received the call. It was Bisola. Ever since her wedding anniversary, she had decided to stay away from Bisola for a while. She had stopped receiving her calls.

"Hello, Lady B." Chichi casually said, but what she heard in reply shocked her. In a trembling voice, Bisola replied;

"...Hello."

Chichi sat up in alert. The noise of rain splattering on the hard ground was heard, despite the windows were locked. It was a very dark night. Chichi pursed her lips; she tried to herself calm down.

Chichi, everything is alright; maybe Bisola had a night mare or something-

The next 'one' she heard, sent shivers down her spine.

"Hello! Hello! Chichi I'm in trouble."

"What is the problem?'' Chichi asked calmly. The confusion was already telling on her, as she tousled her hair. ''...What's the problem? Bisola?"There was no response. All she could hear was a thumping noise that was hard to comprehend. It sounded as if someone was kicking something- or SOMEONE?

"Bisola? Bisola!" The line went dead. Chichi knelt to pray. When the phone rang again, she answered. Now Bisola was crying,

"Chichi it is Fred, Fred is acting strange! No! No!"

Chichi sighed. "Who's Fred?''

"Fred he's my new- I stay with him.'' She heard a louder noise.

"Bisola, are you with me?"

"He came back from- I don't know where - he's been acting strange'

''Calm down, are you safe?''

Bisola's sobbing grew intense.

"No-o-o-o I'm not safe. He's been destroying things-he's with a pistol," Chichi heard a man's gruff voice in the background.

"Chichi, he's-I still love you, I might not make it, but I love you.'' The line went dead. Chichi shouted, but the extreme thunder made her scream sound like a whisper. The rain sounded more intense. The sound of the howling breeze was audible now. Chichi dialled Joseph's number. That was what she could think of at that moment. Joseph's phone rang and he didn't answer his call- she could understand, it was 12:07 am. He should be praying and his phone would be out of his reach. She held her head.

"O God, help Bisola."

The phone rang. She rushed to pick it up. It was Joseph.

"Hello sweetie."

"Hello dear,'' He started calmly, "...what's the problem?"

It was obvious, she was sounding tensed.

"It's Bisola she's-she just called me....'' She couldn't find the right words.

"Bisola is in trouble right? I sensed something in the spirit. She's with a man right? Can you hear me Chichi?''

"Yes"

"Mmh. Tell her it would be okay and call the police afterwards. You've the DPO's number -I saved his number on your phone. Call him and introduce yourself as Joseph Adam's wife. He's my good friend. It would be alright, mmh? I'll call you in an hour's time to check on you. Love you"

Chichi became calm. Then she started a prayer and the small, still voice

told her gently,

Call the DPO, like your husband said. Do not go there.

Her phone rang, it was Bisola.

"Hello... Chichi," she sounded worse. "I won't make it. I'm bleeding, blood is everywhere, Chichi, and I can't-"

"Calm down, I'II call the police."

"No, it would make matters worse...I don't want Fred to go to jail-I love him....he would go to jail for attempted murder.''

"What do I do?"

"Please... come over...aaah!" She heard a louder sound.

"I'II-I'II call-I'II call the police.''

"No! Chichi come over. If Fred's jailed, I'II kill myself- come over I don't know what's wrong with him, I might be dead before the police comes.''

Chichi was hearing a conversation now between Bisola and the man, now:

"D**n you! Why are making that D**n call-f**k give me that phone.''

"No. Please stop. Fred, please I love you. Don't do-''

"GIVE me the D**N PHONE!"

"No-o-o-o –o"

The line went dead after a loud sound, it was obvious- he had smashed the phone.

Chichi was very uncomfortable. Then she heard the same voice tell her gently;

Call the police, Chichi, call the police. Call the police.

A louder voice that sounded like her, interrupted:

"Look, that guy would kill Bisola and it would be a pity that you could do something to save your friend and you didn't. Go and save her, go and save her or it might be too late."

Chichi was confused. She held her phone in her hands, "Should I call the DPO?" She was about dialling the DPO's number, when she heard Bisola's shout in her head

"No-o-o-o!"

Chichi sighed. ''I've to go, I've to go and rescue her.'' She put on a dress and grabbed her car keys. She didn't know what she was doing, but it seemed right. She stuffed her purse with her phone, face towel and some money, and then she ran down the stairs. Her saloon car soon drove past the gate into the expressway; she just hoped it would end well.

The noise from the inner room was intense. Chichi had parked her car outside in fear .She felt that the strange man would hear the sound of the wheels. Surprisingly, the gate of the three-bedroom flat was flung open. She walked in, breathing heavily. She was hearing a shout from what 'appeared' to be the living room. Bisola was screaming in pain. Chichi clutched her purse. She knew she couldn't walk into the sitting room without causing trouble for herself, she wasn't even armed and she couldn't continue to imagine Bisola writhe in pain. She had to do something. This was the worst time to think, she wondered why she didn't have a plan back at David Hills. Maybe she was too tensed to think. Then she heard the man now distinctly say;

"D**n you B***ch! I need to rest my head."

What she heard next was a deafening gunshot and the sound of his footsteps-he was probably moving towards his room. The sound of a click, made Chichi know that he had locked himself inside now and was probably sleeping. Chichi fell. All she heard in the sitting room was total silence. A pang of guilt struck her.

You let Bisola Die and you could do nothing.

Chichi felt tears trickle down her face. She stood up still crying, to SEE Bisola's dead body. The door was unlocked; she walked into the sitting room. Well, she was fortunate that GOD had mercy.

There Bisola was lying helplessly, but she was not dead. He had probably shot in the air, but she was bleeding.

"Are you okay?"

Bisola was crying bitterly, but silently. Chichi held her up and cried with her. She wiped her tears with her face towel.

"I'm so sorry. I couldn't make it earlier"

Thirty minutes later, Chichi and her friend were seated on the sofa. Bisola sighed,

"...That's what happened. I just don't understand what is wrong with Fred."

''Are you saying you guys had no previous quarrel? He just came back from work, and started behaving strange?"

"He kept on accusing me, insinuating I was dating Jake weaver, but I told him the truth- Jake Weaver is my cousin. Then he started punching me.'' Chichi shook her head.

"This is bad-but why should he insinuate a thing like that?''

"When Jake weaver arrived from the United Kingdom on the 30th of August, he decided to treat me special. So he took me to the beach and we just snapped normal pictures. Fine, I was in my bikini and I was all over him, but he's my cousin!" Bisola dropped her hands on her lap in confusion. Chichi grimaced,

"I warned you Bisola. Stop dating boyfriends and get a serious fiancé. Boyfriends are boys, they are not men. Just take a look at yourself, are you happy now? Also,'' Chichi shrugged. ''...Stop playing around at the slightest opportunity. Bisola sincerely, you are in your late twenties, approaching thirty and you still act like an unwise toddler. You're always at every hen's night, and all the night clubs you can find. You go to the beach at every slightest push in that odd bikini of yours. You don't even go to church, except on Sundays and what kinds of churches do you attend? Is it a bible believing gathering? No it's all about a fancy preacher entertaining his audience with captivating, watered down messages. Do they preach true salvation? Do they really preach holiness? It's a fashion show honestly, where you see all sort of heavily made- up women in colourful dresses and posh men in designer suits! Bisola you need God, mmh?"

Bisola started crying. Chichi spoke calmly now,

"I love you, but I have to let you know the truth. You don't even study the word of God, every second you are listening to desperate, Manipulative singers Jezy peters, who hate God with 'passion'. You spend your valuable time watching secular but morally dead movies, your friends call normal. You live a junk life, feed yourself with 'junk' entertainment and it's no surprise you're getting a 'junk' beating from a 'junk' man with a 'junk' mentality. Stop this now"

Bisola cried out,

"Help me!"

Chichi looked into her eyes. "I can't, only God can."

Bisola shook her head. ''I'II do this later. I know I am not truly born again. I don't have a concrete relationship with God, but I can't just can't do it now, give me time.'' Bisola wept harder.

"It's up to you, I've said the truth."

Bisola moved close to her and knelt before her.

"Chichi, please Fred can kill me; I need somewhere to stay for a while, while I sort things out. Help your friend out, please.'' Chichi sighed.

''Joseph-''

"Please help me. I'm your friend remember. I will spend just a week or two.'' Chichi was confused. She didn't know what to do. She should have obeyed the Holy Spirit and not come here in the first place, now she was in a mess. She heard a gentle voice and the one she recognised.

No Chichi, go home.

Then another voice spoke,

Take her along, or things would go crazy!

Bisola took the pistol on the tiled floor and put it close to her head, her thumb pressing the trigger lightly.

"I'll kill myself if you don't take me in. I'II rather die, than stay in this house with Fred.'' Bisola said in tears.

Chichi panicked. She had to make a choice. The two voices in her head made her perplexed. Bisola's behaviour was daunting. She just had to make a choice right now. She fell for her instinct. Now breathing heavily and in tears, she said.

"Bisola let's go home."

Some seconds after, Chichi silenced Joseph's incoming call.

   CHAPTER THREE

THE BAIT

September 10th. David Hills, Aja, Lagos.

Chichi always felt uncomfortable when Bisola 'put up' that gloomy look. They were in the dining room now, eating boiled potato, fish sauce and lemonade. Bisola was 'picking' at her food and looking terribly sad. Chichi blinked,

"Come on, Bisola. Why do you keep hurting yourself?" Bisola looked up,

"I love Fred-I'm just thinking- why did he-he nearly killed me- I just don't understand.''

Bisola had been in Chichi's house for the past seven days now, since the incident. Chichi looked at her sternly,

"Fred should be with another woman now, having fun, while you soak yourself up in guilt. Until you come to the realisation that you need to act fast, retrieve your apartment, take Fred to the police custody and become a 'woman', you will continue to live in this traumatic bondage.''

Bisola sighed.

"So what do I do?"

"Exactly what I just said, we can call the DPO; he will take of your house and Fred will be taken care of. Bisola start thinking about marriage, not dating. I told you how I met my husband. I still remember how wonderful that night was. Now, I'm counting on you to be spiritually and morally serious."

Bisola swallowed, "Fine. I'II do that. You know, maybe I'm just loving the wrong person and getting troubled unnecessarily. Maybe you are right. I've slept with a hundred men, maybe that's why I feel so fragmented- you know, inside of me. Maybe that's why I am so empty. I don't know, all these might be eating me up spiritually.'' She dropped her cutleries in frustration. ''...but I can't be you, Chichi! You know, you're the perfect one. You're married to the man of your dreams, a wonderful, fulfilled man like Joseph. You are never lonely, you're so talented in your ministry, and you're close to God and –you will definitely be with God forever. Maybe, some people are just meant to be favoured..." she burst into tears, "...cause I can't be all these. I am doomed."

Chichi took hold of her hands affectionately on the dining table.

"Bisola, God loves all of us. He wants the best for us. His thoughts for us are of good and not of evil, to give us an expected end." Chichi sighed, "Do you remember what I told you, that night on the couch?"She pursed her lips. ''...tell me when you're ready.''

While Bisola was still eating, Chichi took her last bite and emptied her fresh, honey –sweetened, lemonade in a gulp. She patted Bisola and went to her room. There, she knelt and prayed for Bisola and stepped into the bathroom for a shower.

Bisola was now in the sitting room, on the couch before the TV. She just needed something to make herself happy. She searched through the TV stations, but she was not really satisfied- all she saw were too moral and 'Christian', for the usual viewer- except the national TV, which was showing Jezy's new music video; 'Sex magic' and since she wanted to be 'a little' moral these days, she switched off the TV and lay on the couch, in deep thoughts

Bisola knew there was nothing stopping her from giving her life totally to Christ. It was a sensible thing to do at the moment, but each time she remembered her idol, Cassandra Jones, and her statement in an interview, it made her 'rethink' the whole thing and feel Cassandra Jones was right. She remembered the interview clearly well:

An African male journalist asked;

"Why do you rarely adopt moral- or let me say inspiring 'themes' in your music. Y' know, sincerely, all we hear these days are really 'unlike' some decades ago. Y' know, if is not 'Baby I'm crazy about you.' or its not, 'I've got fat cash.' It has to be a 'sex-all night' thing; all encouraging our vibrant youths to live by these concepts. I might be coming down too harsh, but a recent analysis show that the rate of morality in this generation, has gone back by more than sixty percent, compared to some centuries ago. Don't you think that some types of music, movies, games and the entire media, have a part to play- and even though you did a duet with Jezy Peters in 'Bethlehem'- 'a kind of" Christian song, you were at every scene in sexy clothes and you were doing all kinds of raunchy dance moves. The next song after that had you topless-so what do you have to say? I'm speaking the mind of the concerned public.''

She looked quite embarrassed, but she smiled anyway. Cassandra shook her hair and proudly revealed the dragon-like tattoo on her neck. She looked in her pink gown; bold, defiant and sexy as usual.

"Well f**k all those haters, I hate them all. I love my fans and they love me the way I am and if it's not sex these days, it barely sells. To all inferior brats, be a bad chick like me.'' She pouted. "You know, sometimes, you've got to think about the money- I mean always-money is the lead- I mean, we celebrities live in the luxurious side of the planet, so that's how we pay our bills. I don't really care if it's moral or not, my fans don't complain and they buy every CD. That is my lifestyle. You know, it's not easy to be an important, responsible role model to thirty million, vulnerable people. I had a fan who sold all her clothes to buy my albums, from 2000 till date. Now that's impact! If one is willing to take any risk for a high rated idol, it shows that idol is a good role model. Being an able mother of one, I take my daughter along every day, to train her in the right way; I take her to my video shootings, the studio, all night spots, the bars at Miami, and especially my nude shots-it's time to tell the whole world that not all girls would end up marrying fine - looking pastors. When it's time to strip nude, you do it for entertainment. It is worth it! You became a great role model and an honourable, sex pawn". She laughed. "Now, to all my beasts [her fans], I'm going to make up artistry very soon, so I can generate more money to do the Red Dress Challenge,'' she smiled. "...you know what it is about, yea. We all are going to get the same hot dresses; Jezy Peters, Chelsea Walker, Lucy Diamonds and all of your sexy idols. It's an IRS designer collection and we'll get each dress at four million dollars, each. It's a lot, but it's worth it. I hope you all aware that after this, I'm holding a cross dressing night party at Miami Beach. So I can meet with all my fans- you know the dress code-men, dress like women and women, dress like men. It's all about doing something different, to help your intellectual and spiritual growth and I'll like to say something very important,'' she pursed her red coloured lips and turned directly to the camera,

"...This is coming from the entertainment world, there is no one born again huh? Jesus died for all us and yeah, it doesn't really matter what we do. I still have numerous relationships not bound by marriage, but it doesn't mean I'll end up in hell. In fact, last night, I dreamt that I was leading praise and worship in heaven. HALLELUJAH!''

The interviewer was shocked.

"...Well stop acting so religious! You know, we've got thousands-millions of religions and they are all ways to heaven, don't mind John 14:16 that says Jesus is the way and the truth and the life, that's a typographical error. There are many typographical errors in the bible, even John 3:16 is one of them. Y' know, Jesus is not the son of God; He's just the tool of God. We are the sons and daughters and to all people who view us as their greatest idols, dumb the Christian s**t thing and stop reading too much on Monarch Programming online and Mk ultra slavery -they're just lies. Lastly, Christianity is by faith, so you don't have to do anything. If anyone tells you to do some weird Christian stuff, tell them to go to hell. Love you all beasts.BYE.''

Cassandra Jones had been Bisola's role model since she was age seven. What really made her interested in the diva, was not really her great vocals or her ravishing beauty, it was her level of confidence. She believed in 'herself' and Bisola liked that. This was the concrete reason why she didn't want to become the 'Born- again' type. Cassandra said she had seen Jesus several times, but she wasn't like Chichi, so Chichi could be wrong. While Bisola was thinking of this, she didn't realise when she fell into a deep sleep.

Sweet Orchid Hotel, Roseville, London.

Joseph unbuttoned his shirt and sighed. Today's service was eventful. In fact, he had never felt so taken over by the Holy Spirit. There were miracles and the hand of Lord was upon many lives. The praise worship made him so moved that for the first time, he really danced at the altar. The thought of praise worship made him remember Chichi-he just hoped she was safe, he had 'tried' her number repeatedly, but it was still switched off. He should have allowed her to stay with him and not sent her to back Nigeria; how foolish he felt! He got on his knees and prayed for her and also Bisola's salvation. He felt he needed to take a shower, so he began to undress. He was barely clad and only in a towel, when the doorbell rang. He wondered who the person was. No one knew he was in this hotel aside Chichi - it certainly could not be the hotel attendant downstairs, he just talked to her now. Out of curiosity, he walked to the door. Only when he had unlocked the door, did he remember that he was in a towel. A lady was standing at the doorway; she was his nice mannered PA. Joseph wondered why she was dressing in an overly casual, camisole-like dress today.

"Martha," he said smiling. "...How are you doing?"

She smiled back, batting her lashes. "I'm fine sir. Can I come in?"

He wanted to make her wait so he could put on some clothes, but since he didn't feel like wasting time, he opened the door. She took in a deep breath,

"I just wanted to let you know that all the files ready and say hi to you also".

It was a quite unusual of her, but he was impressed.

"Thank you so much, you really are God sent."

"Sorry. I didn't call you before I came. Actually, my battery was flat. Is my apology accepted?"

He nodded. This lady was so nice. Then he felt a 'check' in his spirit. He ignored it.

''Can I offer you something? Don't mind my manners, take a sit.'' She sat. It was then he discovered her gown was unusually short.

"Coffee will do.''

He was glad. He just made coffee some hours ago. He went into the kitchen to heat it. When was back with a cup of coffee, he found her looking at the mirror and arranging her hair. He handed the coffee to her and sat on the bed. She thanked him. Joseph's mind wandered again to what happened at the glorious service. It was so miraculous, he couldn't even explain it. He was about to ask Martha why she wasn't present, when he noticed she had been staring at his chest for some time now. He coughed. She drew closer. Then he stood up and walked close to the cupboard. He didn't even know what he searching for- he was trying to do something to keep himself 'under control'. He looked back, only to see Martha Obi had pulled off her dress and was standing before him, naked. He was about to move back, when he heard a voice in his head;

But she's so beautiful.

Actually, Joseph hadn't noticed this since her four years of faithful service as his personal assistant. However, on this fateful day, he 'realised' Martha Obi was extremely beautiful. He smote his head and looked away, muttering; "Jesus help me." She moved close enough now and placed her palms on his chest.

"Stop,'' he said calmly, trying to move back, until his back was against the wall. She reached for his towel.

"Stop this Martha!"He got angry. "...just stop! What are you trying to do?'' She 'feigned tears' now.

"I love you Joseph. I've always loved you, don't you think-''

''Look,'' he started; raising his voice, "I AM MARRIED, I CAN'T DO THIS!" She paid deaf ears to him and began unloosening his towel. He pushed her to the bed.

She rubbed her hair. Joseph had never seen such 'Jezebellic' eyes in his entire life. He certainly had to do something. He was just confused. He kept on muttering; "Jesus help me".

Martha started sobbing harder.

"Don't you love me? Don't you feel the same way?"

Things were getting 'out of hand', Joseph had to do something. She ran towards him and succeeded in grabbing off his towel. His towel was in her hands now. She moved close to the window and threw it down the tall building. She moved towards him seductively and said in a soft tone,

"Make love to me Joseph; you're the finest man in the world. Forget about Chichi. I love you, I need you. Please baby, I've waited for this for a very long time now. Show me how manly you are.''

This temptation was so terrible; Joseph could not control himself anymore. He was becoming passive by the minute. This was really a demonic spirit in human form. As she took each step forward, he became weaker and weaker. In confusion, he knelt down.

"Martha, please don't do this to me. You'll destroy my ministry, you'll ruin my image, you'll-''

"Ssshh, I love you. That's more important." She moved so close to him and was now breathing heavily on him. He couldn't even push her off; he was just like a shadow. He didn't know why, but he had no strength in him. He never thought he could be so weak. She moved to kiss him and it was then, he knew he had to act fast; in a second or two, he would be in bed with Martha. Not thinking of any possible solution, Joseph ran out of his hotel room, naked.

David hills, Aja, Lagos, Nigeria.

This is too good to be true? D**n!

Bisola was going through a CD collection at a shopping mall. She could see Chichi's 'face' on almost every CD cover! Chichi was a very influential songstress. Chichi had left their home, some minutes ago and Bisola in boredom, strolled to this shopping mall. She was indeed surprised, at the success of her friend. She was becoming jealous.

"I didn't even know that Chichi -"

She was interrupted by a certain 'sound' at the mall. She turned behind, to see an excited crowd had gathered at a television stand in the shopping mall. Bisola stood still in amazement. A beautiful lady tapped her from behind,

"Aren't you going-this is the most watched event in the world, right now."

Bisola followed the lady. The crowd was really 'staggering', it was obvious that no one was interested in shopping anymore. Bisola asked a smiling, white woman what the excitement was about.

The lady, who was with a toddler, appeared shocked at first, but she later replied,

"This is a recap of last week's World Wide Worship - Chichi Adams will soon perform."

On display, was a futuristic stage. The thrilled crowd clapped and made a joyful noise. The MC made a brief introduction;

"Now we'll like to call on a virtuous woman, one the world now celebrates; we bring to you, Chichi!"

Bisola saw her friend mount the altar in a glittering gown. Chichi held the microphone confidently,

"I really have to bless God for making me present tonight, for this wonderful programme. Actually, this is my first time performing here and you know, I can feel the glory of God in this place, HALLELUYAH!"

The crowd shouted in response. Bisola could see people in the mall clapping also.Chichi motioned the whole world to lift their hands and sing from the spirit, and then she started the song;

What can wash my sins away?

Nothing but the blood of Jesus...........

The vocals tripped Bisola off. She was dazed. Bisola saw people getting healed and delivered-even people at the mall! Bisola walked out of the shopping mall, green with envy.

Bisola was in her room now, all alone. Just then, her cell phone buzzed. She picked up her 'new' cell phone. Then she received a call, while laying on the bed- it was Jake Weaver.

"Hello."

"Oh, how are you doing?" The husky voice replied.

"Oh Jake, so you got my text?''

"Yeah. What happened to your phone?"

"It fell into the toilet bowl." She lied, ''...It's damaged, completely damaged."

"Sorry about that. How is my little girl doing?"

"She's fine and how's big cousin doing?''

"Cool. I would be going back to the UK on Monday.''

"So soon? Come on, why?"

"It is business dear, but you know I am troubled-Annie Dollar has left the music industry."

"What? Why? How?''

"That b**h thinks she can just make so much money with my help and leave. She put me in a tight corner now!"

"Calm down."

"F**k her! Damn her! Now how do I appease her huge fan base? She even threatened to go to the press and tell the world about our underground, cloning centre and my secret affair with Sasha Zolanski. She wouldn't make me a loser in this game. I'll kill her, I swear."

"But why did she leave like that?"

"Skinny b***h says she's tired of all the manipulation in the music industry and that she has found Jesus."

''Really?''

"I give you my word, I'll kill her. I am supposed to make a million dollar off her tonight at a club in Rwanda, now she's making me lose money. B***h! I aint gonna forgive her. I'll kill her. You know I was thinking of using someone to replace her."

"I don't understand."

"I'm short of singers. I need a sweet sounding whore I can use to make up for that stinking b***h's vocals. She's the only one with real, natural vocals. The others use auto tunes, pitch shifters and all kinds of technical manipulation, even in their so called 'live' stages. I can't afford to just let that go, I need one who has an exceptional vocal quality, I don't know who brainwashed that girl –d**n!."

"Cousin, I think I have a friend."

"F**king awesome! Where in hell can I meet her?

"Look, leave that to me. I would get her for you. She's quite popular here as a gospel singer y' know-".

He cut in, "My d**n spirit tells me that girl is called Chichi Adams." Bisola blinked, "When did you get spiritual cousin?

"We all do the masonry stuff at times, gives our b***hes more attention. So if you gonna get this girl do something bad, to put her in our web, I'm gonna offer you a million dollars.''

"Oh my! Oh my! Oh!" Bisola was excited. "...Leave it to me, I'm a bad girl remember.''

"Yeah! Bad girl, just let me know when you've got the girl. Love you.''

The line went dead

Chichi Adams drove to her apartment. She had just gone to minister at a university; she was told THE youths about God and educated them on morality. One girl had asked;

"I watched a popular television show and it said a female should learn to empower herself with concepts like sexuality, then beauty strategies like plastic surgery. Do you think it is right?

She answered carefully,

"I don't think a woman acting OVERSEXED; can do anything but destroy her integrity. You know it is high time, women knew their role in the society. Let us live the true LIFE. I think many feminists are misguided, sexuality it's confined to marriage. You are respected and loved by your husband once you are submissive and it IS worth it, but telling everyone you're available to be experimented upon-that you're a sex engine through your clothing, acts and speech, it makes you cheap and WORTHLESS. Many girls who would do anything to get beauty, often times end up in the hot flames of fire. God, when He created you, gave you all the pleasantness He requires of you; YOUR complexion, lip colour, lash length, hair type, and everything that you were made with were intentional. It is now your RESPONSIBILITY to maintain it, not to undo it. I spend time and money on my skin, hair and clothes, but I do it the natural way. Plastic surgery IS caused by inferiority and self-pity. When you hate the way you look, the devil laughs out loud and says; 'She doesn't know what she's worth!' Our new agenda is TO manipulate her!"

Another question that caught her interest, was the one asked by a handsome, young man:

"Madam, do you have any idea on how one can KILL an addiction to video games, porn and the social media. Also is there anything really wrong with THIS IDEA; LIFE IS ALL ABOUT MAKING GOOD MONEY.

She answered,

"Well, let's talk about my past. I spent my early years in High school, masturbating. When I tried to stop, it got worse, what you need to kill any addiction is spending more time in God's presence and aggressive prayers. When you surrender all to God, you are above your weaknesses and you live in His STRENGTH." All the students stood up and applauded. Chichi continued,

"Secondly, if everybody had that mentality [Life is all about making good money], we will all be 'dead' by now. You know, greed will kill us all."

Everybody burst into laughter .She laughed too. Then she continued,

"We all have something great, the world wants to see. Money is a good

Thing, but everyone should start by: living the true life-finding all the talents

And gifts Inside of you, trusting GOD and working hard, then SUCESS would run after you."

The students applauded. It was a nice outing. She sang for them the song she composed a night before; 'I Surrender '.

She turned off the engine, clutched her purse, locked her automatic car and walked towards the door. It took two minutes for Bisola to open the door. When Bisola did, she looked quite teary eyed. Chichi was worried,

"My dear are you okay?"

"I'm fine," she said forcing a smile. "...welcome."

Chichi knew everything was not okay. She dropped her purse at the centre table and turned to Bisola.

"Cheer up. Let me have my shower". She sighed and disappeared out of the sitting room. Bisola sat on the sofa, after taking Chichi's purse. She smirked as she emptied the contents from the purse. Bisola bit her lip,

"You are a bad a**, Lady B." Bisola seized her best friend's cell phone. Then she quickly typed a composed message after switching on the phone:

Sweetie, I'm so sorry that my phone has been switched off for days now. I've been on the prayer ground since September 4th. I got a revelation about you falling down a well so I knew I had to do something. So from now on my phone would be switched off till we meet again. I also had a dream about Bisola -she's a witch. I've cut her off a long time ago. Love you sweetie, don't bother calling.

Bisola put on a devilish smile and sent the text message, and then she deleted the report. She placed every item into the purse gently and put it back on the centre table. After some minutes, Chichi walked in and sat beside Bisola. Bisola started crying. Chichi looked worried.

"Bisola, what's the problem?"

"I was just thinking about my life while I was alone. I now understand that there's really nothing in this world. Everything in this world is foolishness.'' Chichi nodded. "Yes dear."

"I've decided,'' Bisola turned to Chichi, her eyes were blood shot.

"...to give my life to Christ," she lay on Chichi's shoulder, crying harder.

"Let's pray."

As they held hands to pray, she felt something in her spirit. It was weird, but she felt Bisola was lying. She nearly stopped, but something kept urging her to continue and she obeyed that voice.

"Father, I am a sinner..."

September 15.

Chichi lay on her bed troubled. She felt so weak in her spirit. She stretched. For the past five days now, Chichi had not really prayed, she was always tired. She couldn't even read her bible anymore. She could not feel connected anymore. Why was she not even feeling the need to connect and get deeper in the faith? The words flashed in her view, now more distinctly;

Be careful for nothing.

In the living room, Bisola dialled her cousin, Jake's number.. He spoke first,

''Hello, whore.''

"Hi, pimp. I've tried the weakening spell on the doll- exactly how you told me to do it; the three lit candles and the powerful mantra. You know, I never believed in this "Voodoo thing". I thought it was all bunkers until I tried it five days ago. I swear, it worked. I've not even heard her prayers again,'' she looked around and lowered her voice to whisper. "...she's not even serious with God anymore, I love this Jake. Magic is from SATAN, himself. You know, I feel powerful and on top of my world, send me more spells please.''

"Yeah. I'm the real devil. Jake CREATED it all."He laughed, "I am kidding. I've got tons of them. I will get some fine ones to you through your email. Abracadabra .Let's keep on with the witch hunt, whore. Happy HALLOWEEN."

"Love you Bad boy. We live in our fairy-tale world; witches and warlocks."

"B***h what would you like for this CHRISTMAS AND next year's VALENTINE?"

Bisola paused to think. Then she responded excitedly,

"I need more money."

"I knew it! I will give you two of my houses at Miami and a blank cheque, when you get the job done."

The line went dead. Bisola sighed. She felt so happy. Now she thought of plan B.

Sweet Orchid Hotel, Roseville, London.

Joseph shut his window and put off the light. He had just prayed for four hours, non-stop. He was doing prayer challenge, [he was increasing his prayer time by twenty minutes each day]. .He was really doing well. Just then, the scene of Martha - about five days ago, flashed in his memory. He remembered how he ran out, with no clothes on him. He was fortunate that a male hotel attendant was at the stair way and surprisingly, he was with a kitchen towel alongside his silver tray. The 'shocked' hotel attendant gave him the towel and asked him what happened. When he briefed the middle aged man about the scene, the man in a smile, shook him for his bravery and said,

"Thousands-millions of men would have seized this odd opportunity to mess up. I thank God that today, I've seen MAN." He also apologized for the receptionist's wrong doing-for not calling him to let him know he was expecting a visit. He sounded as if Martha gave her tip to act that way. He never knew the devil was capable using anyone to tempt you. The hotel attendant acted so kindly and took him to an empty store room. He also promised to check his room to make sure the 'whore' was out and he did just that.

Now, Joseph wondered why he 'disbelieved' the message, which was 'supposedly' sent by Chichi. He just knew it was a forged text.

Was Chichi lying? Or was someone else handling her phone?

He was a little bothered about 'these' things, before he fell asleep on the king sized bed.

David Hills, Aja, Lagos, Nigeria.

Chichi turned to her side and was surprised at what she was seeing. Bisola was sitting on the bed in an unusual way. She also wore a devilish grin. The lights were turned off. What chichi could hear was the sound of splattering rain and fierce thunder. Chichi frowned at Bisola, what was she trying to? Now, Chichi could see that Bisola had something in her hands and she was lifting it up. She could not really 'decipher' what it was. Bisola's face was contorting into a bizarre scowl. Now Chichi could see it clearly- the moonlight reflected on its shiny surface. Chichi tried to scream, but Bisola covered her mouth tightly and Chichi saw the sharp knife in Bisola's clutch sinking into her heart.

Chichi woke up from the terrible dream. Perspiration beaded on her forehead. She was panting now in fear and confusion.

"Oh Lord!" She exclaimed.

One thing was sure; this was definitely not just a dream but a 'divine revelation'

CHAPTER FOUR

WOUNDED

September 16th . Salvation Church, Palm Ville, Aja, Lagos Nigeria.

Chichi looked at the side view mirror, there was Bisola at the passenger seat, looking as saintly as possible. She now wore no makeup, her scarf even covered her ears, while her sleeves were unusually long and one couldn't even see her shoes properly, because her skirt kept them hidden. It looked like she was humming "Blessed Assurance". For the first time in a long time, she started thinking Bisola was evil. She felt used. Why could Bisola turn out to be this evil, despite all the love she had showered on her? Why would Bisola dare do this to her? She muttered under her breath,

''I've been a fool.''

Chichi turned off the engine. She had decided to attend today's weekly service, since she had foolishly missed last week's own. Surprisingly, Bisola with her new giant bible said she was interested in increasing her spiritual growth and she had to follow her. Chichi had kept an unneeded carrier bag beside her, it contained fragile equipment and she did that because she didn't want Bisola to sit near her. Chichi was coming to the conclusion, that Bisola was a devil.

The church service came to an end. Chichi discovered that she was 'lost' throughout the service, she couldn't just help but stare at 'spiritual Bisola' who was standing beside her, waving her hands in the air and on her knees when the worship was going on. Chichi didn't even dance to the praise worship as usual, nor did she take notes during the sermon. She just felt completely absent. She was thinking of how to get rid of Bisola and let her husband know the truth. Chichi sat on a chair and was still wearing that perplexed look on her face when Bisola tapped her. It was obvious that the service was over.

"Dear, when are we leaving?"

Chichi didn't even look at her face.

"Sorry. I didn't let you know earlier, I'm going to see the Pastor"

"Really," Bisola smiled. ''...I'll like to see him too. I need to work out my salvation-".

"No," Chichi said forcing out the fakest smile she could ever think of. ''It's alright, you can go. Remember we didn't have breakfast.''

"Really," Bisola said a little puzzled. She moved to go. Chichi sighed and looked her way,

"Love you, miss you."

Bisola walked out. Still wondering what was going on in Chichi's mind, she couldn't help asking herself;

What's wrong with that dirty b***h?

Chichi was at the Pastor's office now. It was a quite amazing that she didn't meet a crowd very before the door as usual-may be God planned this visit. When she remembered how many times she had ignored the Holy Spirit, she felt like crying. It now dawned on her she was a disobedient child.

Lord I'm so sorry.

Tears rolled down her cheeks as she knocked, she tried to wipe them off but it was too late, the pastor opened the door and saw her.

"Oh! Chichi, how are you doing?"

Chichi smiled, she always felt relieved when she saw the pastor. He was a very cheerful man. At forty three, he had a very young looking face, he was polite and brainy .He let her sit and didn't even let her speak,

"Dear, how's your husband, Joseph? I saw him on TV last week." He smiled. Now on his seat, he fondled his ball point pen. "...He's such a great man. God really is using him, mmmh -and I've never missed your concerts, I have all your medleys at home, and they are so inspiring. Wow! You are such a wonderful couple".

These words made Chichi feel even worse-maybe Bisola was even here to destroy her marriage- why did she allow all that?'' Tears ran down her cheeks. Pastor Moses looked concerned,

"Chichi is everything alright? I noticed earlier, that something was wrong .Please talk to me-are you having problems with Joseph?"

Chichi pursed her lips,

"No. I have a devil in my house." Chichi said in hurt, pain and guilt.

David Hills, Aja, Lagos.

Bisola was seated before the desktop, sipping a sugar-filled soft drink. She sighed and continued viewing her electronic mails, smiling, as she went through them.

"Nice spells. This is lovely."

Then she paused, and went to the NWO website; a very popular SOCIAL MEDIA platform. Bisola went to her NWO profile and sighed again. "I love this website. This is where I get to see Jake every single day.'' She knew he would always be online and sent him a text.

_Bad boy, I've gotten it, but I've got some headache, bitch's not going down the way she's supposed to._

In a second, she saw a reply. He was an NWO addict.

_Bitch, sup?_

She smiled. She knew she would find an answer to this new turn out.

My role models are Cassandra Jones and Jake Weaver.

She chuckled and felt lucky to be influenced by such great people.

_Bisorlah: N***er, this Chichi girl's getting on my nerves. She put on a strange attitude this morning. She's freaking out._

_Mr Celeb: My Muse tells me the b***h has gotten got a revelation. We've got_ _TO ACT_ _fast, we aint gonna lose such tool-she'll bring in lots of money. She's so cool for the agenda. I saw the pictures you sent; Hour glass figured, beautiful looking and that clip I saw made me knew that this bitch's got vocals. F**k you if you don't get her. This Chichi girl can be_ _SEXY_ _in a jiffy- in the right clothing, in the right hair- do and our makeup artist could take her down right to the point where she would be giving her fans heart attack_

_Mr Celeb: Bad boy, you're talking too much. We both know she_ _IS_ _SO_ _gullible and you are a_ _SINFUL_ _devil_ _,_ _LOL_ _. Let's even forget her. Joseph is so thick- skinned! You know, all the spells failed. I just don't know what to do._

_Mr Celeb: Let's try and manipulate his dream life._

_Bisorlah : Are you're sure this would work?_

_Mr Celeb: I_ _swear_ _this is the highest grade spell. It's reverenced in our church as a terror to humanity. Try and be careful though, coz doing it bad can leave you deaf._

_Bisorlah: How scary! All these spells drives me crazy, but I can't do without that them._

_Mr Celeb: Yeah,_ _LoL_ _. Get that b***h girl, I'll send you a secret phone text on what to do next about Joseph.''_

_Bisorlah: Love you, N***er._

_Mr Celeb: F**k you B***h_

Salvation Church, Palm Ville, Aja, Lagos.

Chichi blinked,

"...and that's what happened."

The pastor nodded, placing a hand to his chin.

"You came at the right time."

Chichi pursed her lips,

"Pastor, I feel bewitched- I don't know, but that girl has done something to my spiritual life, I don't even know if she's doing witchcraft.''

''Well, God wants you to know that your marriage to Joseph and your ministry is under attack. It takes a tougher battle to solve that.''

"WHY?'' She paused for a while, ''...I-but I don't believe in all those- you know, foundational stuff or much aggressive prayers."

"Young lady we have to act fast, your ministry is about to be wiped out."

"What? How? " Her eyes widened in shock, "It doesn't matter who, what matters is your compliance. Are you ready to pray and obey?

"I've got no option."

"Then let's begin."

They both held hands. Now on their feet, they were quite serious, binding and losing, damaging and repairing.

Sweet Orchid Hotel, Roseville, London.

Joseph yawned. His doorbell rang. He had wondered who it was, before he glanced at the time. It was 6:00pm; supper time. After stretching, he threw his covers and walked to the door. He was right. The young man offered him a tray, smiling. He nodded and sat to eat. He was about blessing the food, when he heard the Holy Spirit tell him,

Continue your fast.

Joseph paused. He was really surprised. Why was he expected to keep on with this fast? Who knows? It could be his 'tired' brain, creating all this confusion. He 'thought' it was a two-day dry fast. He had refused the catering services of this hotel for two days-ALL for this cause-he was so starved, yet he was expected to continue his fast. Why? He heard a louder voice now, similar to his manly voice;

Did the service not go as expected today? Are you sure it's the Holy Spirit or your imagination? Come on! You just woke up from a deep sleep. You can't tell, your brain's probably hearing strange noises.''

Joseph nodded. He heard the voice again;

Joseph, continue your fast

He was about rethinking, when the battle of his mind continued, this time the voice felt more reasonable;

Remember, you're going back in three days' time. Do you want to meet your darling wife, fasting? Remember, she'll be expecting you to come well packaged, You won go there like dry fish, think, man! Chop bele full. It's all about wisdom! God is not an author of Confusion. All things will come to pass.

Joseph already convinced, heard the voice the third time,

Joseph, continue your fast! Pray for your wife and your marriage.

This time, the aroma of the spicy, fried rice and grilled chicken, caught him unawares. He was starved. Joseph Adams sighed and satisfied his appetite. When he was done, he drank the cold bottled water .Then he coughed. Joseph was about retiring to his bed, when he felt the need to have a taste of honey, after his meal. He leaned forward to the cupboard and reached for the honey jar, but just beside the jar, he noticed something strange had happened. His underwear was missing. Joseph knew clearly well that he hadn't used it. In fact, it was a gift from Chichi on their recent anniversary. How could it be missing? He hadn't even opened his drawer after Chichi left for Nigeria. He frowned, but no one had entered this room after Chichi left, no one except-MARTHA!

David hills, Aja, Lagos, Nigeria.

Chichi rang the doorbell, but there was no answer, even after fifteen minutes. She sighed heavily. Chichi, after the prayers had her lunch in an eatery beside the church-she wasn't sure if Bisola had put 'something' in the food. Stooping down to see what was bulging under the floor mart, she found the bunch of keys which lay under the floor mart, with a folded paper .She tried unfolding the paper and saw it was a letter. Chichi stood up, grabbed her bag and opened the door. After shutting it behind her, she sat on the sofa and inquisitively read the letter.

To my sister, friend and Bestie.

I write this letter, with a great burden in my heart. At each word, I feel tears about to run down my cheeks. You know, I can't thank you enough for introducing Christ to me. What could have ever healed me but knowing Christ? I walked out not because I wanted to, but I had to. God had been telling me to be careful ever since, but you know -I have to confess; Seven days ago, I left the door opened and went to get pizza from the pizza shop. I thought locking the door wasn't so necessary-you know, nothing frightens me-I wouldn't spend so much time there. Surprisingly, I saw our neighbour in the house when I got back. That old deserted woman, who loves satan, walked out from your room-I challenged her but I knew she had done something in there. I just want you to be okay and pray harder against her. She looked as though, she was casting spell on you.

Anyway, I'm on my way to the deliverance ground to pray about this too. With our prayers, may we conquer any satanic spell cast by that witch? Love you.

Chichi knew Bisola was only creating a fake plot, as an excuse to her running away. Their prayers back at the pastor's office must have chased her out. Chichi smiled, but another thought came to her mind.

What if it's true?

Sweet Orchid Hotel, London.

Joseph awoke in fear. He was panting and profusely sweating. His dream terrified him. He looked at his mobile it was one am. He was surprised; why did he not wake up to pray -why did he sleep like a baby? His mind soon reflected back to the heavy meal he ate some hours ago.

The sight of the dream was frightening and shocking! He kept on saying to himself,

"This can't be true."

He had just dreamt that Chichi and Bisola were having sexual intercourse on his own bed! He sighed. How could that be possible? He felt so terrible.

This is impossible.

He tried to reach for his bible, but he felt a hand grab him and prevent him. All of a sudden, he started hearing strange, demonic noises in the room. He just lay there on the bed for an hour unable to move, speak or think, for he was 'trapped'. He was almost lifeless. Then a light came from above and the strange noises died down. It was then, he said, "Jesus" in his mind, since he couldn't use his lips. After he did that, the strange presence left, Joseph was scared. This was his first near-successful attack in more than fifteen years now. This meant trouble. He motioned to pray, when a deep sleep fell upon him.

CHAPTER FIVE

DECEPTION

September 18th . Murtala Mohammed Airport, Lagos, Nigeria.

The Buzzer was fairly loud;

"Flight 302 has just landed! Flight 302 has just landed!" Chichi couldn't help scanning the crowd carefully. Looking as beautiful as ever, Chichi stood still, clutching her bag. She was in a gaudy-looking Ankara gown. Her full virgin hair hung low on her shoulders, she sighed-and there he was. Joseph was at a close range now. He sighted her first. She smiled and he smiled back. He was wearing a chequered shirt, and well ironed, dark blue trousers. He shook her.

"I missed you."

She spread her arms for a hug and the couples sealed by marriage, hugged affectionately. He sniffed, "I love your cologne."

She was delighted.

''It's made of organic, sweet smelling flowers." They walked to Chichi's car now. The saloon car made a reverse now and headed for the express road. Joseph watched his wife drive, in an amusing way. Chichi shook her head.

"Come on, stop that."

He bit his lip, "what?'' He asked smiling.

"Sweetie, I am not so good at driving yet."

Chichi laughed. "You win my heart, every time!'' She batted her lashes gave him a feminine look. Then she whispered, ''...Smart guy."

Soon they were at home. The road was as free as breeze. Chichi turned off the engine, after opening the boot with her automatic button. Joseph started off loading his baggage now. She leaned on him,

"Guess what I cooked for my honey?"

Joseph paused,

"What?"

She smiled.

"Okra soup and pounded yam, just the way you like it."

He turned to her and kissed her.

"Maybe I'll be seeing a lot of surprises today."

"Mmh." she pursed her lips. "I HAVE A GRAND SURPRISE FOR YOU THIS EVENING."

***************************************************************

No.2, David Hills, Aja, Lagos.

Madam Roosevelt sat on her cushion and shut the curtains. Then she looked around and made a secret call,

"Hello Bisola."

The voice behind the receiver replied,

"Yea. What's up?''

The fifty three year old woman sighed. She was a neighbour to the 'Adams' family. She coughed and looked around again. She looked polite. Her warm tan skin bore a slight' difference', in match to her bohemian curls. She adjusted her spectacles and spoke in a low tone,

''They are both at home now. They are chilling in their flat.''

''Get prepared. No mess ups! I paid you for this.''

Madame Roosevelt coughed again.

"Okay ma'am. I'll do anything for money."

No. 4, David Hills, Aja, Lagos.

Chichi was lying down on the sofa and reading a gospel magazine. Then she saw an article with the heading;

The Most Influential Gospel Singers in the World.

She started going through their names and was blessing God for using these great people for His will and glory. To her, these people were not just motivated to SING, they were genuine ambassadors of Christ. She knew that ONLY true love for Christ could make one do his will. GOSPEL music was different from the rest because it had what 'others' didn't have; life. Chichi understood that SONGS had a great influence on humans. A recent study made her know that a simple song could go as far as influencing a person's behavioural pattern; mood and lifestyle. A song could trigger happiness or disdain, joy or suicide, love or murder. FROM NOW ON, Chichi knew she had to spread the message to a lot of people who were ignorant. She was about closing the book, when she saw her name as the 10th. It shocked her. She was about reading this, when her phone buzzed. She saw it was Bisola and she silenced the call. She sighed, trying to view the written profile. Her phone rang out again; in hesitation, she received the call.

"Hello.'' Chichi said in a stern voice.

"Hello I've missed you so much." Bisola sounded as if she was crying, "I've to tell you something and it's about your husband, what he did to-"

"Look, Bisola you know what? You've been a liar, a cheat and a hypocrite. Look, you're a witch-"

"Please t.....r....y. and......understood me,'' She said, sobbing louder ''I wouldn't have called at all, I wouldn't have, but we've been friends since childhood. So why should I hide this from you? I wouldn't let anyone know about this. It's so terrible that Joseph could do this."

"Look,'' Chichi warned. "...do not call this number again!"

"Please before you hang up, think about this if-what do I stand to gain Chichi? How can I lie against your husband? God knows I can't do such! Your husband loves you with all his heart- but it's just for your own good. So you'll pray for him to overcome this test."

Chichi sighed.

"Look Bisola, you know what? I'll come, but be rest assured that this is the last time we would ever know each other as friends. Either this story is true or not, I'll cut myself from you.'' The line went dead.

Chichi dropped the magazine. She loved her husband so much. If he was in a mess, then it was her responsibility to fix it up. She thought of letting her husband know, but he was sleeping in the bedroom. She also had to be careful, so he won't 'suspect' anything .The whole thing was becoming unbearable and her marriage was at stake. She grabbed her car keys and left the house, in such haste, that she forgot to pray.

No.6, Donald Trump estate, Lekki Peninsula, Lagos.

Martha was sitting next to Bisola and she was weeping seriously. Bisola looked hurt and offended. Chichi walked in and dropped her bag. She sat and eyed Bisola suspiciously,

"What is the problem?"

Bisola bit her lip and took a defiant look at Martha.

"This witch has been sleeping with your husband for years now." Martha continued sobbing louder.

Chichi froze. She shook her head,

"This can't be true. You know, you're just making this up." There was silence now and strong emotions could be noticed from Martha's crying to Bisola's aggressive frown and Chichi's chest was 'pumping' in shock.

"No," said Martha breaking the silence, "...we've been having an affair for a couple of years, before he married you. We had to stop for a while because of his Ten days fast. Then he met and married you and forgot about the whole thing, but I seduced him." She looked at Chichi's face, "...That was the reason he urged you to go back home. We planned many nights for hot baths and dirty sex".

Bisola hissed. "My spirit told me,'' She wiped her tears with a handkerchief.'' I had a terrible dream –I saw Martha tearing your home apart- that's the reason why I left for the deliverance. However, while I was at the deliverance ground, God charged me to fetch her out. Is this who you would call a friend -a wicked witch who seduced your own husband? This good girl is a hypocrite. I saw her 'miraculously' in a mall and stopped her. Bisola grabbed Martha's bag, drawing out Joseph's underwear.

"Look at what this witch,'' she gave Martha a jab ''...was walking around with- your husband's used boxer! I don't even know if she has deposited his sperm in the marine bank, voodoo! You are a witch!"

Martha knelt and went close to Chichi, who was flabbergasted. Chichi kept asking herself,

How did she get that?

No one knew about this 'gift'. Confused about the whole thing, Chichi grabbed her purse and walked out, ignoring Bisola's call.

David Hill's Aja Lagos 8:00pm

Chichi sat on the couch. She couldn't laugh, she couldn't cry, she was just mute. Why was this happening now? Why did God allow this to happen? Bisola couldn't have created all this lies! It had to be true!

She swallowed hard and made up her mind that it wasn't going to interfere with her marriage. The enemy really was trying to destroy their marriage, but she had thought it was Bisola all this while.

I was blaming the wrong person.

Chichi sighed. She had to forget about the whole thing and pretend it didn't happen. For now, she needed to give her husband her 'surprise ceremonial package'. She walked towards the bathroom. Tonight, she had to look beautiful.

An hour later, Joseph Adams stood up from his bed and stretched his body. He put on the lights in the room and surprisingly felt he had to look good. He put on a dress shirt, combed his hair and used a nice spray. He shut the door behind him and walked straight into the living room. It was very dark and he motioned to put on the light, when a feminine hand cuddled him.

"Ssssh, let's go to the balcony."

It was Chichi's voice. Joseph wondered what's she was up to, but he just played along, full of expectations and benign ecstasy.

No. 2, David Hills, Aja, Lagos.

Alice Roosevelt peeped from the window; she could see Chichi and Joseph in their balcony, feasting in a unique 'dinner' setting. Candle lights were arranged. There was 'this' sense of burning love.

For the first time, Ms Roosevelt felt she was a bad woman. Why did she want to destroy this fantastic marriage? Ever since her husband died twenty years ago, she had never been the same, she was always sad, lonely and confused. In fact, her last marriage was hell. After several failed marriages, she became a renowned feminist and she always said to herself then,

"Don't ever fall in love, Alice. All men are crazy."

She was thinking about giving up totally on the EVIL PLOT against the Adams family, when these words flashed in her mind:

It's all about the money

Ms Roosevelt braced up; she had to do ANYTHING to make money. She was already thinking of getting a new car or renting an apartment which was located at Banana Island. She smiled at the thought.

I am so wise.

She dialled Bisola,

"Hello Lady B."

"Hey, what's up?"

"They are doing a little party- kind of like-"

"Don't worry I can see it in my mirror. Just wait, I'll distract Chichi, so you will have ten minutes to do what you've got to do."

"Yeah, yeah, it's all for the money."

"Yeah, I'll send you more cash."

No. 2, David Hills, Aja.

Joseph was staring at Chichi; her natural hair do complemented her round face, while her striking figure made him smile. He winked at her.

"I love your gown."

"This?'' She asked. "Thank you." Then she looked at him, nodding.

"You look smart.''

After dicing a portion from the hot peppery chicken, she lifted up her fork and offered him; he ate and winked at her again. It was her turn to stare at him. She always loved Joseph. Now, she didn't know whether it was the right time to tell him everything. She look forward, maybe she just had to.

"Joseph, I went to-"

Her ringing phone interrupted her. The words were readily visible on her screen,

Bisola calling

She excused herself and went into the room. Joseph didn't even bother to ask who was calling; his mind had wandered away. He was thinking about being a father with many children. The strange footsteps caught him unawares. Joseph saw who he had not seen in a long time.

"Madam Roosevelt."

She drew closer. Though the candle lights were not so bright, he could notice that she was not smiling. She wore a 'stiff' frown and was adjusting her gown every now and then. She looked into Joseph's eyes,

"I've got to tell you something, and it is about Chichi."

Anthony Estate, Aja, Lagos.

Martha felt horrible. She couldn't even look at herself in the mirror. Ever since she tried to seduce Joseph in his hotel room, she had felt so terrible. She had lost her pride and dignity. She couldn't even place what made her do it. Ever since she broke up with her boy friend a year ago, she had developed this unusual, sexual craving and she spent all her 'life' masturbating with a dildo. She had named it Joseph. Then, something kept telling her,

You can do it with him, real.

Another voice kept telling her to go for deliverance, but she was embarrassed about it. Now, Bisola had come to decoy her with a new life and new job in Manhattan, only if she could lie against Joseph. She didn't want to do it, but again, something kept pestering her to do it. She felt empty and miserable. She felt like a worthless harlot, where would she start from? Now, She had this masturbation addiction, she had probably lost her job as a PA, she was heartbroken and she needed love. She wasn't sure if the 'new' life at Manhattan would bring her much joy. She had made up her mind to end her life. The 'pills' were in her palm. All she needed to do now was swallow them and she would be 'gone'. As she was about to taking the pills, her leg knocked the bin down accidentally. She cursed under her breath and tried to pick up the pills on the floor.

It was then that she noticed a scrambled paper that looked like a tract- it had come from the bin, her eyes fell on the cover;

JESUS LOVES YOU

She had heard these words from evangelists and speakers at the road side, but now it made sense to her. Maybe Jesus loves her despite all the evil things she had done, maybe He always had her in her mind- He died for her when she didn't recognise him. With tears in her eyes she screamed;

"I am sorry, I LOVE YOU BACK!

David Hills, Aja, Lagos.

Chichi did not understand why Joseph was acting strange. He had seized her arm after Bisola's phone call and dragged her all the way to the bedroom.

Joseph pushed her to the bed roughly. She could see his eyes; they were burning in anger and intense hatred. She didn't even know what was wrong with him.

She started calmly,

"Joseph-"

"Shut up your mouth! You are a shameful lesbian!"

Chichi froze. She tucked in a loose strand behind her ear.

"Did you just call me a lesbian?"

"Yes, that's what you are. You think you can bring Bisola into this house and commit all form of satanic, immoral acts?"

Chichi was dazed.

"Joseph, what's wrong with her?"

He pointed his finger to her eye.

"And you call yourself a worshipper! LIAR! Who knows if you've been seeing Martha, whom _she_ said, is also a lesbian.

"Who have you been talking to?" Chichi asked.

Joseph laughed wickedly, but in pain.

"You are a harlot! A great harlot! No wonder you 'rushed down' from London, because you love Bisola touching you more than I.''

"JESUS!'' Chichi screamed. ''What's wrong with you?"

"Look, Jesus cannot save you now," he said hitting the door. "You're leaving my house!"

The sound of fierce rain and thunder was surprising, the rain had showed no sign-but they weren't even thinking about that.

Chichi took a deep breath,

"Joseph- look, I can't do such a thing.'' She burst into tears "I know it's my fault, l let-"

He slapped her.

"How dare you Joseph?" She stood up to him.

"What's wrong with you? Why- are you-"

He pushed her to the wall.

"You're leaving this house today."

Joseph opened the door and started dragging her out. When he got to the main exit, he pushed her outside.

"GET OUT!"

He banged the door. Chichi stood out in the rain, wet and hurt. The thunder was deafening, she was alone. She kept on crying bitterly.

"GOD, why?"

Chichi walked slowly. She was outside at midnight, afraid and bitter. She struggled to walk properly because the ground was wet. Now she had no phone, no car, no money and nothing. She started thinking-what if she was kidnapped? What if she was raped? What if something evil happened to her?

A car suddenly came from nowhere and obstructed her path. From the driver's seat, she could see a familiar face, it was Bisola. Bisola looked out of the car's window,

"Get in."

The door of the car opened. Chichi got in and sat beside an unknown man. Bisola looked at the car's mirror,

"Are you okay? Thank God you weren't raped, we got here on time. Madam Roosevelt, your neighbour said she heard a shout and she peeped from her window to see Joseph throwing you out of the house."

Chichi tried to hide her tears .Bisola sighed.

"No problem, umh? You're safe with us."

Chichi could make out of the man's face, he was dark and slim, about her age and strikingly handsome. He wore a dark purple suit. He flashed a smile at her. Bisola smiled too from the driver's seat,

"He's Jake weaver's son- Tobi Weaver. He's a health therapist. I know you're so emotionally wounded. He helped me to recover from Fred. He's here as a friend and also a doctor. He's a very nice person, he's not really like Jake, and he's not into the music thing, you know. He's different, he's a Christian and an assistant pastor in a branch here-I've even abandoned Jake, he doesn't help me spiritually. You'll enjoy being around Tobi and tomorrow I'll see your husband and talk some sense into him."

Tobi weaver sighed,

"She's very fragile, she needs good care. Joseph was too brutal".

Bisola nodded,

"Despite all the love you showered on him-but you can't change it, it's always the till death do us part." Tobi patted her, "Yeah, she'll be fine."

The car drove into Bisola's apartment. Bisola smiled as Tobi Weaver took her inside. Then she paused and started breathing 'heavily'. For the first time, she asked herself,

"Why are you doing all these?"

She hissed. She just had to. She lit a cigarette and inhaled the puffs of smokes. Then she convinced herself,

Bitches do anything to get money.

Her phone buzzed. She received the call; it was Jake.

"Hello, rude boy."

He sounded very serious, "Is the b***h ready?''

Bisola's heart was pounding, now she didn't know why, but she was just scared.

"Yes. The bitch's all yours."

"Good."

"You got the text? I credited your account. Did that earlier today because I trust you.''

''Tobi weaver knows what to do with Chichi. Bye bitch."

Bisola pursed her lips; she knew what she had to do. It was painful, but it was the only way she could 'escape' from the guilt and shame she felt. She felt like a Judas. She felt that even God wouldn't forgive her. She had left the 'one million dollars' for the only one she loved in the world- Fred. She had credited the money to his account before now and sent him a text. Before she drew the dark, shining 'metal', she told herself Cassandra Jones's favourite statement.

We all live in a bad world and b***hes do any anything to make their money; it's all about making the d**n cash.

Pointing the pistol towards her head, she took her last breath and shot herself dead.

This is just the first phase.........................

DARKENED II

The Eclipse

... Coming soon

IF you love this book, sit up and wait for its second and final part, which would be out very soon. For more information, check out our page on face book:

www.facebook.com/darkenedthenovel

THE BIBLE CHALLENGE.

The 5 weeks bible challenge will help you cover very important parts in the Holy Bible (Please use the KJV 1611 bible for better understanding). This would help you to get an understanding of God's Word and His perfect love for Humanity. When you are done share your experience on our page and like us on:

www.facebook.com/darkenedthenovel

Send us your emails to;

danielkings421@gmail.com or darkened1@speakfreely.com

SUGGESTED SITE FOR IMPROVED SPIRITUAL GROWTH

These sites would do a lot to help your spiritual walk with God and encourage you to develop a true understanding of God's word:

www.vigilantcitizen.com

www.jesusissavior.com

www.mountainoffire.org

www.beginingandend.com

www.knowthetruth.com

Some inspiring Books

Spirit controlled temperament by Tim Lahaye

Why you act the way you do by Tim Lahaye

The praying life by Jennifer Kennedy Dean

19 Gifts of the spirits by Leslie .B. Flynn

Idols of the heart by Dr. Dk. Olukoya

Some life changing Testimonies

You can find these using search engines on the internet:

  1. Angelica Zambrano's testimony

  2. Rachael Mushala's testimony

If you've found this book helpful and which to make a donation or contribution, call 08165930190

109

