

RUTH ELENORA

DARLING MANNEQUIN

Copyright © 2018 by Ruth Elenora

Digital Edition

PROLOGUE

All I know, humans have a noble heart. A gentle soul. A smart mind. They can also feel a variety of emotions. And most of all, have logic.

Hey, you! Yes, you! The human I call the most perfect being. Please, allow me to tell you. At least, let me inform you that I do exist. That I also have taste, heart, soul, and love.

I am a very beautiful mannequin. My beauty exceeds the standard of other mannequins. That's how I think of myself every time I hear the amazement of the boutique visitors who see me through the window. In the beginning, I was not concerned with my appearance, but after the owner of the boutique never considered me, then I want to be seen by him.

I do not know when exactly I live in my body as a mannequin right now. Almost everything that belongs to human is in me. I'm not a dead object. I can speak with my language. I can move with my style.

Perhaps, it's all because of the intense desire to be acknowledged by the handsome human. For some reasons, sweet and magical things suddenly appear to come to help me. Pushing me close to love. Encourage the man to feel my love.

Thank you for the skill of a toy entrepreneur who had sculptured me with great details and caution until I was formed. That was where my origins came from. That was where my fate began. As a mannequin.

Oh yes, I'm the only one in my world, who understands the human. No other mannequins I can make friends with. The ability to learn things and understand something quickly came from somewhere. Humans call it the 'intuition' term. Something like that.

It really hurts to be a character who can only see the favorite person without ever being seen by him. Unfortunately, I do not know how to change this yet. How to get his attention.

I want him to fill my lonely heart. I want him to care about me. Although he could not hear my voice and reply to my shouting, I want his eyes always on me. I miss him to realize that I'm real. I am in front of him. And in love with him.

I know unrequited love should not happen in my story. I'd rather prefer a happy ending. Although my life is unlike other normal love stories, I believe my love is not unremarkable.

So, would you please hear my story?

1.

WHO ARE YOU?

Close but feels miles away,

how helpless we are ...

\--------------------------------------------------

A man and woman were staring into each other's eyes with full of admiration. Biting and catching each other in a bursting arms. In a dimly lit boutique, without adequate lighting.

The moonlight that penetrated the window's curtain further clarified the body silhouettes of couples who were being drunk of uncontrollable passion. Taking turns alternately. Rolling over. Gripping. No matter how much sweat that moistens their bodies. Fingers and lips wandered everywhere. Racing in the sigh of breath and the constant moan of pleasure.

Eventually the couple moved in a fast rhythm. Combined beautifully. Until they managed the peak of passion to accomplish together, breathless and satisfied.

For a long time they hold still in possessive possessions with each other. The man, who was in control, did not want to shift his muscular posture from above his woman. He continued to give light kisses on her neck and shoulders while occasionally tasting them. Her laughter became a magical breaker that had been created between them.

"You are heavy, Matt." The woman stretched her body as she pushed Matt's chest away.

"Hmm ...," Matt replied lazily. He pulled his chest back against her body again.

" The morning will soon come. We will be seen by your employees if we are not hurry," she protested.

"In a moment, Claire, I'm still anesthetized," Matt whispered hoarsely.

Matt's lips were back guerrilla. Claire giggled as she felt the tip of his tongue playing with her earlobes together with the warm breath from his lips.

"Anyway you have to get up." Claire turned her face to the left and right, avoiding Matt's face trying to steal a kiss from his lips.

"I'm already awake, my dear Claire," Matt muttered meaningfully. She grabbed Claire's hand toward the part of his body.

Claire shrieked softly. "Are you kidding, Matt?"

Matt stroked Claire's long brown hair falling loosely around his smooth shoulders, looking at Claire's swollen lips. "I want you more."

That morning, they repeated a passionate struggle once more. Moved tirelessly as if he had never done it before. Tasted the awesomeness of romance together again. And again.

***

Matt could not help thinking. He frowned because of getting confused. Just left briefly to the bathroom and Claire had disappeared as fast as lightning without leaving a trace of their love at all. Like one night stand only. Not even her clothes were left behind. Instantly the silence in the room was piercing for Matt.

As written on the agenda, Matt had an appointment with Fiona this afternoon. She was his designer and his flagship deputy at the company. There was no time for him to think about where Claire had gone. The only info she could get was her name.

Matt was hurry to open the window's curtain and unfold his boutique carpet. The boutique was located in the shopping center of the city's elite area. There were still several more branches scattered in several malls downtown and neighbourhood. Matt managed to make his boutique into the largest and exclusive boutique in the city.

Matt also had a cafe and production house business, the kind of business that made him familiar in the world of models and celebrities. This was the opportunity of temptation that Matt could have greeted with ease but never served because contrary to his principle.

He knew his face and style impressed playboy look. But he did not have the playboy attitude. He never wanted to get involved with many women. The business empire he had pioneered since graduating from college was more intriguing than the perfect ladies who had come to him.

Until the skinny woman, who was far from the sexy term, appeared in front of him. Just like that. Like falling down from the sky. Unclear origin. Suddenly she had taken his attention from his beloved business. Claire, the bully of concentration.

Her skin was pale white as marble. Tapered face was framed by long dark brown hair, a tiny little nose, long eyelashes like doll, and thin pink lips.

Nothing special. Except one. Her eyes. The sparkles managed to hypnotize his passion when Claire was looking at Matt wistfully. Reminded Matt of the lake color in a storybook. Dark and deep green.

A bell clinked Matt's attention to the open door of the boutique. He saw his employees came in and began to fix the contents of the boutique.

"Strange," Doni said suddenly in front of a mannequin.

"What's so strange?" Lily asked.

"As I recall, I put this pretty mannequin at the window show with two other mannequins, but why is she standing in the middle of the room now?"

"It's not me who move it on," said Lily.

Matt became interested in hearing the conversation of both employees. He walked toward Doni and Lily to find out what's going on. Without looking at the mannequin, Matt caressed the material of the evening dress being worn on the mannequin.

"Fiona's latest work?" Matt asked.

"Yes, the design for the collection you ordered last week," Doni replied.

"Put this mannequin back in the window, do not forget to put on shoes and accessories." Matt glanced at his watch. "I have an appointment, maybe I will be out until night. Rika has not arrived yet?"

"No, maybe soon." Doni picked up the mannequin while carrying him a little.

"Be careful, do not scratch its skin," Matt said casually and then rushed out boutique.

***

I liked today's weather. Bright and warm. But the sunshine was so strong to my eyes.

That was what made me aware of my current position. I was placed parallel to two other mannequins. In a boutique storefront that titled DESIREE. A luxurious and beautiful boutique for exclusive customers. Old and young. Fashion lovers who did not care about spending money and those who loved to add their collection of clothes.

My current standing position gave me more glances of passengers more than the other mannequins on my left and my right. It made me the center of visitor attention. The prettiest.

The boutique is very elegant. The yellow light of the lamp and various colors of clothes hanging in various angles could create its own beauty. The golden curtains blend in contrast with the luxurious red carpet all over the floor of the room.

Ouch! I got stiff when I had to keep up the arm with style like a statue. As I moved my arms down, I felt the strap of dress slung over my right shoulder. The silk dress that wraps my body must be very expensive, the material was very light and smooth, sticking to fit and beautiful in my body.

Sometimes, I felt lucky to be a favorite mannequin to boutique clerks. I felt lucky to be a showcase display in this luxury boutique.

"That's beautiful!" cried a boutique visitor.

"Can I help you?" Lily asked, approaching the visitor.

"It's been a long time since I've been looking for a moss-green dress exactly like the one worn by this statue, and the model also suits my taste." The visitor looked at me from top to bottom as she stroked the dress material I was wearing. "I hope the size fits."

"You can try it," Lily said.

"Can I?" the visitor asked enthusiastically.

Lily nodded with a smile.

"If so, let me try it."

"The fitting room is over there," Lily pointed toward the back of the cash register.

Oh, this is the part I'm most worried about. When the clothes I was wearing wanted to be tried by one of the boutique visitors. I would be seen naked in front of the window, though for a while. I was ashamed!

"Poor you, dear mannequin," Doni said. He draped a large and long brown scarf to cover my body. It could only cover a little, but better than nothing.

"I'll take this dress," the visitor said when she came out from the fitting room.

"How about take another look at the same shoes and bags, ma'am?" Lily asked.

The visitor shook her head. "I already have a them at home."

"All right, let's pack it up," Lily said. They both walked to the cashier.

Doni smiled grinning at me. "Looks like you have to wait, dear mannequin, it's almost lunch time."

Oh, no! Do not leave me with this scarf alone.

I found one of the human habits that is strange. Hunger. Why do they need to eat? I thought that's pretty troublesome.

When the boutique was deserted, I walked sideways toward the shelf on the left wing. I took the clothes randomly and wore it as soon as possible then twisted the scarf from Doni around my neck.

On tiptoe, I returned to my last position in front of the window. The natural style might be like a mannequin. I had to wait until all the boutique employees came back .

"Hey, look! This mannequin is gorgeous," a teenage girl whispered to her friends while pointing at me.

"Yeah right, I've never seen a statue with pretty dress like a goddess from paradise," her friend said while looking at me admiringly.

"I love the dress, so chic and girly!" she muttered. "She looks like a fairy girl waiting for her lover."

The girls then went on the streets whispering. I was dreaming of another humanity. Whispering with a giggle. Is that fun?

"Hey, who's been wearing this mannequin outfit?" Doni asked suddenly near me. Apparently they had returned from their lunch break.

"Nothing," Rika replied from behind the counter.

"We're just back, Don!"

Doni looked at me for a long time. He noticed my appearance and my clothes in such a way. "What a beautiful mannequin, whatever he wears, always fits in her body." Doni shook his head.

Fortunately Doni was not suspicious.

"Hey, Don! Do not talk alone," Lily whined. " Help me quickly to sort out the new dresses coming in. The boutique displays have to be replaced before Matthew arrives," she roared again.

Matthew. Cool and handsome man. Did he come today? Usually, he diligently came to check the condition of the boutique early in the morning. It was my fault. Why should I fall asleep until the sun was high.

Longing. That's what I felt today. I missed Matthew. Hmm, no need to ask me, where did I get this longing. It's very personal. Pleasant taste.

Did my wish today come true that Matt will look at me? Will he smile at me?

Being awake in a state of stiffness throughout the body made me not want to move much today. I wanted to sleep again while waiting for Matt to come.

Of course mannequins have a desire. Did not I ever say, I also have almost everything humans have. Included desire. However, I could not be free as human beings. I was not free to do everything I want, whenever, as I please. My body was limited by time.

I could not move here for long periods of time and in normal hours. Just like now. In daylight, I felt very sleepy and when I was sleeping, I would be a complete mannequin, would not be aware of the circumstances at all, even to dream though, until I woke up again.

I was not free to choose what I liked. I'm a mannequin. My duty is to be a display of clothing for the humans.

How I envy you. The main character on this earth. Free to interact. Free to talk. Free to do what you want without time limit.

Who is really weird now? Me or human?

Is it so weird to think so far? Why do I want to know more about humans? Why are not humans studying me?

I was just wondering why am I going to keep thinking weird things? I was very sleepy. I was hoping that nothing strange happens during my sleep.

***

"You're late, Matt!" Fiona murmured as she glared.

Matt shrugged his shoulders casually, a habit that kept Fiona's patience running out.

"It's weird why I want to waste my valuable time for a lousy businessman like you," Fiona hissed fiercely.

"Maybe it's because I'm the only cousin you care about on earth," Matt said with a look of 'I really do not care'.

Fiona just pouted her mouth and stuck out her tongue. "How can our cooperation last up to two years? Your previous partner had run away before the contract was extended, because he could not stand the nature of your sleep habit."

"I'm not here to listen your babble about last season, Fin," Matt said boredly. "I'm more interested in the exposure of clothing designs next season that you promised me by phone."

Fiona stirred her coffee slowly. The sound of a spoon clashing with the side of his cup was clearly heard in the midst of the calm atmosphere of the cafe.

Matt chose his favorite cafe as a meeting place with important guests. Its strategic location in the city center but away from the protocol road made the cafe atmosphere very quiet, away from the hustle and bustle of vehicles. The music was vaguely faded away from the noisy scene, made this cafe perfect for visitors who wanted to reduce the stress of work.

"I think it's time we launched a new product.The model is very different from the last one.You will love it," said Fiona.

"Why can you be so sure?" Matt looked at Fiona as he raised one thick eyebrow.

Fiona smiled sweetly. "Because I'm the only cousin who loves you so much," he said, turning his words over. "I'm the best one who understand your business mind," Fiona continued, sipping her coffee.

Matt grunted resignedly. "A cousin who happens to have a profession that is profitable for me."

Fiona raised her shoulders with a grin. "Whatever you said."

"Show me your design," Matt finally said.

They were then involved in a serious discussions on Fiona's underwear models, fabrics and the price, the choice of convection factory to work with, and the number of mannequins to be used for displays.

"I have to see the mannequins in your boutique to suit our products later," Fiona suggested.

"All the mannequins are the same," Matt muttered uninterestedly. He shifted his smartphone screen to see the rest of his schedule this afternoon.

"No, Matt, the mannequin is the heart of boutiques, we have to direct the style of the mannequins to be as unique and creative as possible to attract our customers, all so that your display is different from other boutiques."

"We'll do it later until your design is finished," Matt said. "The order just went into the warehouse last week. It took a while to pass it."

Fiona nodded silently.

By evening, Matt had arrived in front of the boutique and saw that his employees were still inside. Matt checked the outside conditions as he passed the window. He knew there were three mannequin statues on display but he was not interested in glancing at any.

What appeared in her head was now the shadow of Claire and herself in bed. Unfortunately he did not know how to contact Claire. The woman came and went as she liked as they first met. All he knew was his name. Matt remembered to ask for her number but it became forgotten when they were together.

Their situation was very weird. Including that strange woman. The way she appeared, how they could fit right into each other, how Matt could instantly get excited without caring about her identity at all.

Rika told Matt the purchase of some dresses at the boutique today. And they all came from a dress worn by a beautiful mannequin that was mentioned by Doni before.

"It's weird, there's always the next customer who would like to buy the dress we put into that beautiful mannequin in three consecutive times. Three models, three buyers." Lily explained.

Matt was curious. "Maybe they're interested in our beautiful dresses."

"Perhaps, because the dresses we have attached today are the new dresses that came yesterday," Lily said thoughtfully.

"But," Doni tapped, "other mannequins are also wearing the latest dress and nothing has been sold yet."

Matt glanced at his watch. "It's late, you should go home, I assume it was all your hard work, do not worry too much. See you tomorrow."

Rika, Doni, and Lily bore in unison and said good-bye. Matt locked the door, closed the curtains, and turned off the room lights. After making sure the front and rear doors were locked, Matt stepped up the stairs to his room on the third floor because his boutique used two floors for display and a warehouse.

The hallway on the third floor was pitch black. Matt kept walking to his room without intending to turn on the lights in the hallway. As soon as he hit the room light switch, instantly the dazzling lights flooded the room, showing his cluttered bed and an uncluttered closet from a pile of undamaged clothes.

Her beloved housekeeper, whom she hired from a service company to come every day to her boutique, was off for a week. There was no spoiled word in his dictionary since he was seventeen. He was left by his parents in an accident. This situation forced Matt to be self-sufficient at early age. Lucky he had Fiona and his family who had helped him out of the financial slump, pioneering his business to be as big as it is today. He was success at the age of twenty nine years old.

After letting go of all her clothes and throwing her any direction down a cover of an enterpreuner magazine sprinkled her face with the most envisioned topic of the Most Successful Bachelor's Story, Matt then headed to the bathroom to wash up.

The sound of the shower sounded clearly from outside the bathroom door. A few minutes later, the sound of running water stopped. With a towel still attached to his waist, Matt came out. The bathroom light was switched off and the door was closed.

Matt then did not believe what was going on in front of him right now. Claire is there. Curled in a blanket that was not perfectly covered. His chest immediately rustled. With her eyes fixed, Matt reassured herself once more that the beautiful woman in his bed now was really Claire.

"Claire? Honey?" Matt whispered. His hand brushed Claire's hair that covered her forehead and her eyes.

Claire moves in her sleep, making the blanket over her body increasingly exposed. Oh, damn! Matt's body instantly reacted instantly without mercy.

Matt was lying on the bed next to Claire. His hands clasped her body longingly.

Claire was awakened by the scent of soap from Matt's body and her mint-scented breath. Matt's wet hair after shampooing was amused when Matt slipped his face into the curve of his neck.

"Matt ..." Claire sighed as she put her arm around Matt's neck. The next second Claire accepted with resignation whatever Matt did to her body.

2.

SWITCH IT OFF!

Let the sun shine

Let the moonlight fade

It is impossible for this dream to come true

Our love will not be united ....

\-------------------------------------------------- \--------------

Perfect. There was no other word that fits than this word to describe the union they did on the bed. Favorite activities they never missed in any of their timeless encounters.

Matt met Claire. Claire complemented Matt. Each other mutually perfected until the dawn light peeked out from between the window's curtains beside the bed.

***

I wanted to stop time in this world. I did not want to count the days, let alone hours, minutes and seconds because it would make me dizzy. Yes, the dizziness that made me around the circle of spiraling streaks after standing in the window.

If the clock stopped spinning as my mannequin body moved, I would leave the store as fast as lightning and run as far as possible. No need to stand up and be constrained by time when it came to being a statue. Doing everything I've long dreamed of. Being human.

Yes, if only.

If only.

"Are you seriously directing the style of the mannequins here?"

This was the first time I've heard a woman's voice unfamiliar to my ears.

Matt smiled crookedly. "You're my cousin, just think for yourself."

"It's very unlikely that Matt will do this," Fiona sneered.

"Oh, why did not I take offense?" Matt said as he chuckled.

"The first thing we have to do is replace all your old mannequins with the newest mannequins, a sleek black headless, with a variety of styles set in the factory." Fiona explained the plan.

Wait a minute! We all want to be thrown away? Replaced by more sinister mannequins?

"You do not have to worry about the fate of your mannequins.We offer back to the factory as a used item."

And parted with Matt?

"As long as it's worth my effort, you set it up."

How stupid I was. Why should I be sad? He did not even realize I was here.

"I'm sorry to interrupt, if it's permitted, I want that mannequin," Doni said, pointing at me.

Matt raised his eyebrows. "You make me even more curious, Don. How beautiful is the mannequin that you want to bring home?"

Doni smiled shyly. "Darling mannequin."

Fiona was already walking to the window. She saw me carefully and whistle.

"You've got an amazingly beautiful mannequin, don't you know, Matt?"

"Our boss has always entrusted us with the arrangement of dresses to be embroidered to the mannequins at the boutiques, ma'am, so we understand he does not concerned with the shape and form of each mannequin." Rika joined in.

"Why should I care?" Matt rolled his eyes open.

Fiona glanced at her cousin and pulled his hand toward the window where I was standing. Then there was the thing I had been waiting for.

Matt saw me!

Yes, we stared at each other. Very close. Instantly my heartbeat pounded even harder. I feel ashamed of Matt.

He was completely transfixed. Widened his bright brown eyes beneath his thick black eyebrows. Looked me up and down with an unbelieving look on my face.

"It's ... oh my God, it's beautiful!"

Though hoarse and soft, Matt's voice remained sexy in my ears. I really enjoyed this moment because I did not have the power to glance in the other direction. Enjoyed the shock. Enjoyed his fascination with the feeling of rumbling in the chest.

Please help! Someone! Turn the watch off! I wanted time to stop now. Standing face to face with Matt.

"Green," Matt continued again in a low voice.

"Pardon me, Matt?" asked Fiona. "I did not hear."

"Her eyes are green," Matt repeated. He leaned closer until our faces stayed within inches.

"Mmm-hmm, something rare, is not it?" Fiona agreed.

"Her skin is very pale." Matt ran down my arm with his finger. Slow and careful as if afraid of me breaking. "Like marble."

"Her hair is smooth," Matt continued, wiping my brown hair down to my back. "Oh my God, this is the first time I've seen a mannequin capable of making me gaping."

"He does not look like a common mannequin sculpture, there's no connection in every part of his body, all one piece, how do you pair his outfit for a display?" asked Fiona in surprise.

"Like putting it on a human body," Doni replied. "It took a while longer than a regular mannequin."

"I've seen it before, but where is it?" Matt frowned to himself.

Fiona chuckled softly. "One of your dark admirers, maybe."

"Just say as you pleased."

Walking to the sofa in one corner of the room by the window, Fiona pulled out her design drawing papers from her purse and spread them on the table. After taking a comfortable sitting position, Fiona opened the laptop on her lap.

"Hey, how long will you stand there and be so fascinated, Matt?" scolded Fiona to see Matt. "I want to show you some of my ready-made plans."

Matt looked at me again. "Beautiful," he mumbled to himself.

Thank you, Matt, I cheered in my heart. I regret my body that could not move at this time. At the moment I want. For if I could, I would jump into his arms as an expression of pleasure for his praise.

"Don, sorry, I changed my mind," Matt said suddenly.

"About what?"

Matt showed off his charming smile in front of me. "This mannequin remains here."

He smiled! My favorite Matt smiled at me.

I tried to calm the beating of my heart that continued to beat unfavorably. What's wrong with my heart? It feels great than longing.

***

Samples of beautiful dresses are worn alternately on me. The funny thing was, it's all done in the dressing room. Men are not involved. Doni replaced Rika behind the cashier. Matt just waited on the couch. His job was only to provide an assessment.

There was one new feeling I could not yet describe. Exceeds the feeling of being delighted by the sweet treatment. Really treated like a human being. What was this feeling of this name?

I've heard humans call it 'flattered'. Is this right?

It didn't matter to me anyway. Matt had seen me. Matt had realized I exist. That's what happened. That's what I remember.

"What do you think, Matt?" asked Fiona. Rika and Lily carried me to Matt's seat. They straightened the thin straps that hung over my shoulders. The silver bands wrapped around my waist are increasingly forming the slim impression of a mermaid-style black dress. The sparkling beads filled all the fabric I was wearing.

Matt looked straight at me. Straight to my eyes. He did not pay any attention to the dresses that Fiona had explained earlier. I knew it.

Matt looked at me.

Long enough.

There was no sound.

He's still looking at me.

Not blinking.

"Matt !!" Fiona shouted irritably.

"Yes, Fin?" Matt asked back. His face was a little annoyed because his gaze was disturbed by Fiona's screams.

"You are, as always, skipping precious things."

"So what?"

"Listen to me first, I'm sure you will not regret it."

"Well, I'll bet your trust."

Fiona ignored Matt's sarcasm. "When this is done, you are allowed to stare at her again all night long. This mannequin will not run anywhere. It's your own fault that ignore her during the display."

Matt got up from the couch. "Whatever."

The papers scattered on the table in one folder. The laptop was forcibly closed. All was handed to Fiona's still-standing hands.

"Do not waste your time, I'll wait for the production," Matt said, waving his hand, kicking Fiona smoothly. Matt then walked to the stairs.

"Where are you going?"

"I'd better do something else than linger to the mannequin. I want to go upstairs."

"You're here, dear mannequin. Do not go anywhere." Lily tapped.

"Let's take a rest!" Rika asked.

"I'll have to clean up these plastic bags and change the mannequins," Doni said.

"Okay, then. Bye, Don!" Lily and Rika waved together.

Through the blinding sunlight that pierced the window, Doni rubbed my hair slowly with a thin smile. The smile that the ordinary person sees will be seen as a gentle, gentle smile, but when viewed by a sensitive instinct, it can be called a dangerous smile.

"Now is the right time to get you, oh beautiful mannequin, I can not wait to enjoy your beauty."

I shuddered to get such a look from Doni. There was a strange sense in his gaze. Horrified.

"Hey, hey, Don, what are you doing standing there on your own? Do not just daydream, move the statue to its original place," Matt said, who had been standing at the top of the ladder to pick up his missed cell phone.

Phew, thank goodness!

Doni's attention was split. The man clenched his hands at his sides. His eyes stared at the carpet underneath.

A tap on Doni's shoulders gave him a startled look at Matt. "You are better to join Lily and Rika to take some lunch, so let me keep the boutique for a moment."

Doni nodded slowly then walked out of the boutique after putting me back into the window.

Either this could be called a coincidence or there wass an element of deliberation, which was obviously very pleasant. Dressed in the same room when Matt was aware of my existence. I should be happy just like this. I wanted to move. Unfortunately, my body could not be compact with my will.

Matt looked cool despite wearing only a white polo shirt that clearly prints his chest muscles. The loose knee-length jeans he was wearing showed his casual impression.

Was Matt planning to go nowhere today? It meant I would be accompanied all day by him. Ulala!

***

The boutique room was dark because a few hours ago it was closed. Cold air that initially covered the room also began to be replaced with heat.

I wake up in the late night, still enjoyed the remnants of the thunderous flavor. Matt's face, his smile, his brown eyes, and his sexy weight.

The shadow of memory kept popping up in my mind. It made me smile by myself, and managed to make me move, out of the stiffness of my mannequin body.

Matt is good-looking. What's on his mind when he saw me this afternoon? What did his heart say when he smiled at me?

What was the name of this feeling? A sense of fun as well as disturbing the calm, came and went to force me to open my eyes and awake all night.

Oh, how his eyes could freeze me. I missed the glint in the brown eyeball. I really missed him.

No! This was more powerful than longing. So overwhelming until I was unconscious. Caught in the passion of burning, bursting, and shaking.

***

Warm.

Something soft and fragrant wrapped around him was so strong. As far as he could remember, he did not pull the blanket out of his room. His body felt sore, like something was holding him to move.

Matt moved his legs to get rid of the blanket all the way. A muffled murmur made Matt open his eyes slowly. Women's voice. Matt blinked his eyes again and saw the source of the sound.

Next, Matt realized 'who', not 'whatw, had embraced him so closely. Even without the aid of the moonlight that managed to light up the dark room of her boutique, he could still know who the culprit was.

The person whose appearance was always abrupt, without notice. Claire. That woman's body was resting on his body on the couch.

Matt pulled Claire's child back behind her ear and whispered close to her ear, "Claire, wake up."

There was no response. Matt then shook Claire's shoulder softly. Which sounded just a soft snoring sound. That meant Claire was still asleep.

Matt failed to wake Claire. Even the woman's thin arm pulled her closer in a stifling embrace.

The only option was to go to bed together. Matt closed his eyes again. Trying to sleep again. But it took a considerable effort to ignore the warmth of Claire's body. Especially when their bodies touched each other without any obstacle. Like now.

Like this time.

Matt blinked his eyes again once or twice. How could he forget? Since when did they make love?

Togetherness with Claire was the thing he was most looking forward to. Consciously, it will save every detail of the memory deeply.

Fighting with his own thoughts, pressed in the midst of this confusing and exciting situation, he groaned in frustration. There was nothing he could do except lie down, with a torturous tension.

On the one side, Matt desperately wanted a good sleep. On the other side, Matt wanted to stay awake so Claire did not just disappear from her bed like their previous nights. Matt waited for the hours that kept spinning, hoping the needle could stop at this moment, as he and Claire were hugging each other.

3.

SERIOUSLY,

TAKE THEM OFF!

The first impression was really intoxicating me ...

Your imperfections drive me crazy ...

\--------------------------------------------------

Crazy! This was the craziest thing that ever happened in my life. Something I dreamed of but did not expect to happen so quickly in reality.

Yes, I was even still guessing the name of the feelings I was having right now. Why could I sit on this couch in a condition without a thread in my body? Where was my address?

Suddenly the alarm in my head ringed. My feelings were aware of a pair of eyes that were looking intense at me this time.

I did not dare look at him who stood in front of me. My body was stiff can not escape. My staring suddenly stopped in his arms over his chest.

"How can the mannequin be here?" Lily asked, confused as she entered the boutique.

"I was surprised too," Matt said.

"Did you who moved it?"

Matt shook his head. "I found this mannequin lying with the face down on the carpet this morning and then I put it on the couch."

"Hmm, excuse me, this is so embarrassing but I have to say it," Lily said haltingly.

Matt turned his gaze to his clerk as he twisted his brow. "What's up? Just say it."

"I'm sorry, maybe I should take the mannequin first to the dressing room and then put on another dress and I'll put it back here." Lily's face flushed as she said it.

"Oh, please," Matt said a little uncomfortably. "Put it straight behind the window store."

"Okay, I saved my bag first." Lily walked to the locker near the counter.

Matt shifted his searching glance back at me and approached me. Bowing his back so that our eyes were at the same level, he said, "Your eyes remind me of someone."

"Who?" I asked. Of course Matt could not hear my voice, because I was a mannequin.

"Um!" Lily's coughing voice startled both of us and got Matt to his feet straight up.

"I'm sorry, I'll take the mannequin."

"Yes, I leave it to you, do not forget to change the accessories of the bag and the shoes." Matt nodded and went away.

After Lily finished wearing my clothes one by one, she picked me up and put me back into the window.

Before she left, Lily touched my left cheek with the tip of her index finger. "You are so beautiful, dear mannequin so that the boss is in love with you."

Love? Is that the name for the feeling that exceeds the yearning I feel now? If that love could come from my eyes to my heart, maybe since I first saw Matt, I've fallen in love with him.

Love. How beautiful the term was. I liked it.

***

God, the mannequin really made his heart pound. There was something in her eyes. It was as if the statue wanted to say something to him. The other unique thing about it was the size of the mannequin that was small.

Strange! Since when had he been curious like this? Why did something related to the mannequin make it like this? Curiosity made him unfashionable.

Ah, if this continued, he could be crazy for a long time. He had to calm down. By reading, maybe? Geez, it's too early to wrestle with books. Was he crazy? Matt drove his car quickly to his bookstore in the south of the city.

***

A glasses-eyed lady with gypsy clothes lit the computer on her worktop connected to a WiFi network. An inbox pop icon blinked directly at the far right of the monitor screen. There was a letter coming in.

The woman checked her email immediately. Her thin lips smiled as she read the open file. The request from Matthew to show the progress of her latest writing was a bit difficult to do. The composition of sentences after sentence always ended in her mind to

this day, when Matthew wanted to increase the number of books sold. Kendra was still not satisfied with the results of her work. She did not want to make Matthew disappointed.

Kendra pushed back her chair. She had to fill her dry throat, so she got up from her seat and came out of the room. Maybe she need something fresh to reset her writing spirit.

After opening the fridge, Kendra immediately drank cold water from the bottle in one sip.

"Thirsty?" Matt asked, already in her kitchen.

"I got writer's block," Kendra replied and sat down on the bar stool in the corner of her kitchen.

Matt smiled. He took the cup from the kitchen cabinet and poured coffee into it from the jug on the table and sat next to Kendra.

"Did you come here at full speed after sending an email?" asked Kendra.

Matt laughed. He added a spoonful of sugar and stirred the contents of his cup. "Because you did not reply to my email."

"Do not bother me, do not bother waiting."

"I do not want to lose."

"Basic need of a businessman." Kendra grumbled.

"Poor writer," Matt replied.

"Why do I want to work with the most selfish and pushy man like you?" Kendra sighed in disbelief.

Matt smiled. "You're not the only one who questioned me."

"Thank goodness a lot of people agree with my opinion."

Matt sipped his coffee slowly. "Your writing has its own magnetic appeal, greatly helping to boost sales at bookstores."

"Why not make a publishing business?"

"I'll think about it."

"Ck!"

"Where is the cream?"

Kendra pointed to the rack near the stove with her finger. Matt stepped into the shelf with his cup.

"So what?" Kendra asked after watching Matt sipping the coffee, which had been mixed with cream. He stepped closer to Matt and wiped a tissue over the remaining creamers left behind his lips.

"What's the matter?" Matt asked, confused.

"What wind pushed you here in the morning? Do not tell me it just happens to stop by play." Kendra narrowed her eyes.

Matt just smiled.

"Your smile may dazzle dozens of women out there but it does not work for me, Matt."

"I know it's hard to lure you." Matt rolled his eyes at Kendra.

"Maybe because I'm eccentric." Kendra turned to her room.

"So, when will it okay?" Matt asked.

"Until all of the hairs on my head all fall!" Kendra shouted from behind the bedroom door.

***

Looked at him! How handsome he was. How sturdy. Walking in the coolest style I had ever seen.

Out of the boutique garage, Matt played the keys with his index finger while humming. From the full lips to the color of his voice that was heavy and low. It sounded sexy in my ears. Was his heart happy?

Again, he was ignorant as he passed me. At the door, he paused to check his pockets, then picked up his phone.

Matt's face changed very cheerfully to the sound from across the phone. Respond briefly and as needed but still warm and friendly. Did the voice come from a friend or a lover?

After turning the phone off, Matt entered the boutique and closed the door slowly. He paused near us, the mannequins. He was thinking about something.

Come on, looked here, Matt! I missed your gaze.

Matt turned his steps toward his study, without glancing at the window. Oh, please! For whatever was in this boutique, waas there nothing that could be used to draw his attention to me? Did not remember him at all with the moment-mutual-eyeing yesterday?

He looks slightly bent in front of the computer. Seen from behind the glass of his room. Reflected clearly from the display window in front of me. Even with such rapidly changing emotional states, Matt seems to remain attractive.

Matt withdrawed his tie and tossed it on the desk. He leaned his back against the chair and folded his arms at the nape of the neck.

Staring flatly at the line of clothes hanging across the room. Did he look at me?

A few minutes later, Matt took a cold drink on his desk and stood up. Roaring with annoyance, Matt unbuttoned the top of his shirt and rolled his arms halfway.

"I'm going to the cafe for a while, urgent business," Matt said to Rika, who was sitting behind the counter. Answered with a polite nod from Rika.

In a rush, Matt pulled the car out of the garage and pushed it hard enough to leave a loud screech.

Hopefully nothing to worry about happens. I want him home safe and sound.

***

Matt looked around for the person who had sent him an email this afternoon.

"I hope something worth it should come here to hear your explanation." Matt put his butt on the long sofa.

"Someone stole our idea, Matt. The launching for next month's collection has to be postponed." Fiona opened her cell phone and showed her on-screen photos to Matt. A boutique is seen putting up the display of clothes with the same design style with Fiona.

Matt ruffled his hair. His eyes radiated wrath.

"Plan B?" Matt asked.

"The new design will take longer, or you can try products from other designers."

Matt shook his head. "My taste just fits your design style, try mix and match, Fin, let's not be too obvious."

"I will try."

The waiter came over to their table, asking for orders. Fiona and Matt shook their heads together. The waiter nodded politely while greeting Matthew before leaving.

"Did you come by yourself?" They walked together to the parking lot.

"I have my own car," Fiona replied. "Uh, that pretty mannequin is still in your boutique, isn't it?"

Matt's steps stopped when he heard the question. "I forgot. Why?"

"She can really help with our gowns." Fiona smiled meaningfully.

Matt raised an eyebrow. "We already have our own modeling agency."

"I do not know, just think of it." Fiona shrugged her shoulders.

***

This mannequin was really different. Her curve was sexy though thin. Her looks was so tempting. Her height was also the average height of women in general. Unlike other high mannequins which were deliberately made the size of the postures of catwalk models. It must be fit right under his body.

Wait! He was fascinated by the beauty of the mannequin body? Was he crazy?

This mannequin was just an inanimate object. There was no way he was affected by something lifeless. But his body and his brain would not cooperate.

Instead, he drew his body closer to the mannequin.

Matt's hand was on the mannequin's waist. Hugged her with a possessive position like hugging a lover. He looked at the mannequin's dark green eyes. Her pink thin lips invited him to taste them.

***

Hey.

What was Matt doing to me? He pulled me into his arms. His hand gripped my waist. Bowed his head, fixed on one part of my face. Lip.

The tip of his nose was rubbing against my cheek, kept touching the tip of my nose, then stopped right in front of my lips. A fraction of a centimeter until I could feel the warmth of her breath. Matt acted as if ready to pounce on my mouth. He tried to kiss me.

My heart pounded in anticipation of Matt's continuation of movement. His hand had moved behind my back, dragged the part exposed by my backless dress, went down, past my brief butt and stopped there long. But Matt's lips had not kissed me either.

Matt's hand moved up onto my bare shoulder. Traced the skin along my arm. Then it ended back in my waist. Gripping slightly to the hip. But Matt's lips still stood in front of my lips. He had not kissed me yet.

Matt stroked my hair and cupped my face with both hands. He still looked at my lips. The tip of his nose rubbed my nose smoothly. He had not kissed me yet.

I was frustrated. I thought Matt was just playing with me.

***

Drrttt ...! Drrttt ...!

Matt's cell phone vibrated on his desk. Instantly, Matt stretched out his arm and pushed the mannequin's waist, pulled the mannequin away from his body.

Slightly confused by the taste he had just experienced. Matt walked out of his office to receive a cell phone call.

Out of nowhere, Matt suddenly smelled the familiar scent of vanilla perfume. The fragrant that made him feel at home. Sweet fragrance.

A pair of soft hands covered Matt's eyes from behind. Between shock and joy, Matt grabbed the wrist that closed his eyes and said softly, "Claire."

"How do you know?" Claire asked.

Matt smiled as he lowered her hands. "You're easy to guess. Intoxicating. "

Not quite yet. Matt turned around to face Claire, he already felt her lips on his. Of course the opportunity was not wasted by Matt. He bit her lips until she opened her mouth. Her tongue was as soft as jelly.

While continuing to kiss, Matt pushed Claire up her back against the wall. Dragging Claire's hair back to deepen his kiss. The masculine dominance of Matt made Claire wrapped her arms around Matt's neck firmly to support her almost descending body.

"Stop!" Matt suddenly pulled Claire's body away. He turned to the sofa and sat there.

Claire was still standing by the wall. Stared at him questioningly.

"Take them all off!" Matt commanded.

"Matt?"

"Take off your clothes, all of them, I want to see you completely," Matt said without expression.

Claire paused again, then sighed. In one swoop, Claire's dress had been dropped down. That's all she's released because Claire was wearing nothing but the dress.

"Come here!" Matt commanded.

Claire walked over to the sofa and stood in front of Matt. Claire felt vulnerable under Matt's eyes that burned every inch of her body. Matt's eyes continued to judge from head to toe. There was a deep silence.

"I just realized that your skin is very clean and smooth, with no sign of defects at all," Matt said quietly. The rays of his eyes burned. Then a grin appeared in his smile. "But tonight, I want to leave my mark on your skin."

Matt could not hold his desires any longer. Being with Claire must always end up in bed. Especially looking at Claire like now.

"I want to kiss you. I really do," Matt said in a husky voice.

Without feeling the need to open her shirt, Matt grabbed Claire into his arms. Continuing the thing that was delayed earlier, on the couch. They got warmth together.

***

Uninstall everything? Hah! So Matt was serious about dealing with a woman right now.

They must be busy now. Without bothering to eavesdrop, she could hear clearly the voice of that awful intimacy. She was disgusted. The voice 'click' meant the phone had been disconnected.

In front of the mirror, she poked herself as she turned. Her hair was tied off, showing off her long black waist. No more gypsy clothes. What she wore now was a sleeveless, floral knee-length dress. Glasses were replaced by contact lenses.

Not so bad. Quite good for a beginner.

Hah! Take a look! Se was even willing to give up her old appearance for the sake of a Matt. Was it all because of her love obsession? She did not understand why she refused to let it go. She thought it was all because she was not attractive at all.

Apparently because there was other women. Matt had lied. Her eyes lit up in the mirror in the dimness of her room. For his lie, Matt must bear the punishment she would give.

4.

YOU ARE A NEW CHAPTER

Do not wake me if this is just a dream

because I do not want to wake up without you by my side

________________________________________

Five hours passed.

Kendra hit the table in frustration and went out to the balcony of her room, staring at the twinkling of the skyscrapers at night. Her mind was still a dead end. The story was there, but it was dead on paper. She could not revive the characters.

It was been a whole month for Kendra to wrestle with this problem. Doodling the phrases, typing paragraph by paragraph, loading paper into the printer, viewing the print outs, then squeezing and throwing them away. Rereading the narrative and considering whether to change the beginning of the story or the ending.

Kendra ruffled her thick black hair. Her eyes wandered into a clear and starless sky. If only she could imagine as bright as the night sky. A writer should be in control.

Just then, her thoughts on the novel structure and her feelings toward writing were suddenly connected. A split of understanding began to flare up and a little enlightenment began to illuminate the flow of novels that she wanted to write.

Apparently she forgot about the human heart in her story. She realized that no writer could string a hundred sentences without binding herself to a single point of view, without involving herself or her emotions in the story.

The deadlock then opened. Idea after idea began to race out of her mind. Kendra sit back in front of her laptop and starts writing with passion.

The connection between chapters began to be established in his head. Concerns about Matt's deadline demand were swept away by the swift flow of flowing ideas. Her hands were relentlessly pressing the keys of the keyboard, writing the story before the idea of her story disappeared.

***

-written by Kendra-

The small road was winding through a pine forest. A house with a contemporary and very impressive structure stood at the end of the street. The plot sloped toward the forest with a small stream across from it.

Very soothing. Water gurgling sounds not only heard from outside, but also from within the house. Made anyone who heard it feel an aesthetic calm.

The rooms in this house were very open and get plenty of air until it feels like staying in the open. Almost every aisle was given a high window from floor to ceiling. The warm sun came in freely and highlighted the inside contents of the house.

There, in the middle of the gazebo in the front yard, a tall, handsome man like a Greek prince stood in the sunlight that doused his hair, framed his face and made his skin burn. Drake narrowed his eyes toward the river. His thick eyebrows puckered over his golden brown eyes.

On the other side of the river, a beautiful young woman like a heavenly goddess was sitting on the banks of the river, wagging her feet that have been submerged solely in the water. Her beautiful back and small slim waist attracted the attention of Drake, who was staring at her from the gazebo.

"Crystal ..." Drake's whisper was carried away by a gentle breeze blowing Crystal's long wavy hair down to her waist.

Crystal bothered from her reverie and looked back for a whisper of voice calling her name. Her clear blue eyes beneath the long and lapping eyelashes watched Drake with longing eyes. The red hue was hot creeping up and spreading from the neck to her cheek. Crystal did not say anything, but she could not take his eyes off Drake's handsome face.

For a long time they looked at each other, hypnotized each other, until the sound of falling rain water brought them back. Oh, not now. Do not be in this moment.

Drake avoided the slap of rain and took shelter under the gazebo deeper. Crystal gazed at the raindrops that hit the surface of the river forming diffused silvery patterns. In contrast to Drake, Crystal was not bothered at all by coming rain.

Crystal whispered to Drake through the growing roar of the rain. "You know I really like the rain. Today, it rains heavily as it is poured out of the sky. But I can not enjoy it. I feel depressed. The raindrops are not water grains that glow happily and dance as they fall into the puddle. They are heavy and clutched me like a chain that fell on me.

Drake, rain is an event that should be enjoyed together. Nothing is more delicious than dancing with our loved ones in the rain. But nothing is more silent than looking at the rain alone."

Drake tightened his jaw. He walked slowly out of the gazebo. The hot steam around her body was so strong that it formed a fire ring. The long black jacket that wrapped her body up to the foot was not wet at all because of the fire shield. Drake continued to walk toward Crystal. But gradually the shield weakened, transformed into a vapor that was almost imperceptible to heat, then disappeared completely in the middle of the rain with Drake, the Prince of Fire.

Crystal, the Water Princess, straightened her back with anxiety when she felt the heat around her body that could have turned it into water vapor and then disappeared. Oh, Drake, how long did we have to wait to be together?

***

Kendra reread the script again. Both eyeballs moved slowly from left to right, examined the contents of her writing. Like there were still less. Well, there it was! The introduction of the characters had not yet been fully described. Kendra re-typed the story idea that continued to flow non-stop in her head right now.

Forget the time. Forget about eating. For the sake of reaching the purpose of retaliation that was being compiled.

***

-written by Kendra-

PRINCESS OF WATER

A house without a tree was meaningless. A house without water is meaningless. Crystal preferred to live in a tree house by the river rather than in a palace surrounded only by a high wall.

Soaking in the water was her favorite. Dancing under the rain was her favorite. Fusing with the morning dew was her passion.

For Crystal, love had nothing to do with logic. If the feeling was already dominating the heart, it is emotion that speaks, not logic.

Like the magnitude of the difference between the palace and the tree house, that's how the distance between emotion and logic, for Crystal. Although her maids and ministers disagreed with Crystal's more frequent stance outside the palace, she insisted on spending time playing in a tree house.

Crystal also wondered why his royal advisors did not support his relationship with Drake. According to their logic, Drake is an enemy who can obliterate the Kingdom of the Water. Not matching with himself because of their very opposite background. But according to Crystal's emotions, Drake is his gelora, his passion, the power of fire that evokes his love day after day.Crystal had more of his strong feelings for Drake than to his counselors.

PRINCE OF FIRE

Drake smelled like the sun. If the sun had a taste, then it felt like this Prince.

For Drake, logic was everything. Leading the kingdom of Fire must be by logic.

But the logic was lost if you had to deal with Crystal, the Princess of Water was his very beloved. His forbidden love.

Crystal's figure was able to stop his heartbeat and turn on his passion at once. The figure of Crystal was able to reduce his explosive emotions and rekindle his burning desire at once. The Crystal figure was able to cool off, as always, his hot head and increase the sensitivity of all the nerves in his body all at once.

Hot met cold. Fire met with water.

How could he unite with Crystal without having to eliminate the existence of her female? How could he love the Princess without hurt her?

***

I blinked at my eyes. Awakened from erotic dreams I've never experienced before. It felt like it was real.

I could not look all over the room. My supine position now allowed me to only glance slightly to my right side.

Matt was still sleeping. One of his hands was the base of my head. One more hand crossed across my chest. A warm embrace. I felt the new touch of hugs that full of affection this time.

In his arms I could hear Matt's rhythmic heartbeat. Sawed with my heartbeat. His breaths tickled my ears warmly.

I studied Matt's face through the tips of my fingers very slowly. I did not let him wake up. I watch his thick eyebrows. Pointed nose. The firm jaw line. The sexy shadow of the sideburns. Handsome, and dangerous. One thing she had learned last night.

Landing a light kiss on Matt's lips was the hardest thing I did this morning. His hard arm was pushed aside from my chest. Then I put on my dress quickly and returned to my place before the time this boutique opened.

***

What's wrong with him? Smearing the woman brutally without any tenderness. Like a human cave.

His curiosity on the beautiful mannequin had made her lose control with Claire. Matt completely forgot himself. A strange tingle when she saw the similarity of Claire's skin with the mannequin's skin had led her to quickly mark her ownership of Claire's body.

He felt very rude that night. Irrespective of her scream, Matt clutched Claire's body by leaving many kissmarks on her neck, chest, and back.

Unfortunately, he woke up again without Claire at his side. The woman always left it before the morning. Though Matt wanted to be able to see Claire's skin color change after their terrific romance last night.

Doni was the first one to wake Matt off the couch. With a surprise look, Doni asked if something had happened to his boss. Just washed the face or took a shower, Matt tried to convince Doni that he just lacks sleep.

Some accessories would come this afternoon. Matt told Doni and Lily to fix the stock arrangement on display. While drinking coffee in his office, Matt checked his cafes and boutiques' financial statements via email sent by his personal assistant.

Suddenly his gaze pounded on the mannequin at the window. The angle of his left eye was wrinkled. How did the mannequin stand there? Was not the mannequin in his office yesterday?

Somebody might moved it there. Matt turned his attention back to his email inbox. But it got annoyed again by the giggling laughter that sounded near the window.

"Oh my God, take a look at this! There are so many red colors on the mannequin's skin," Lily said.

"It's like been kissed," Rika shook her head.

"Unbelieveable."

"But this is a sculpture, not a human, it's impossible to give a response. There must be a scribble, "Lily said.

"Are you, Don?" Rika accused directly.

"Be careful! I'm still normal," Doni protested.

"Yeah, sure you .. Who else? You are the only one who got obsessed with this mannequin," Lily said.

"What did I do when I thought about it if I had much time to take this mannequin away?" Doni replied.

Matt stepped his legs toward Lily, Rika, and Doni near the boutique storefront. He touched the mannequin's skin carefully. Like a lightning struck in broad daylight, Matt found some reddish marks on the mannequin's skin on the neck and back. He looked closely again so that he could not get it wrong. Well, it was actually kissmarks.

Matt stared the mannequin intensely until he could see the mannequin's eyes clearly. "Her eyes remind me of someone," he mumbled to himself.

"Sir?" Lily was confused by Matthew's long-staggered stare at the mannequin.

"Put a red trench coat on her," Matt finally instructed them.

***

Someone stroked Kendra's hair many times gently. She was amazed at the smoothness of her long black hair that had fallen over Kendra's face on her face.

Kendra stretched. The stroke was so cool. No, it was exactly cold. It troubled Kendra from her nap. She woke up. Upholding her back. Grumble herself.

"Lie down again? Fatigue of writing?" There was a woman's voice nearby.

Kendra looked surprised. A beautiful blonde, curly and long-haired woman was staring at her in this room. White clothes shades of bluish, long to cover the legs. There was a simple crown made of pearls and crystals at the top of her head.

"Who are you? How did you get into this apartment?

"Kendra asked in a choked voice.

"Instead I want to ask, how can I be stranded in your small room?"

Kendra never expected to be asked back. He did not know where this woman came from.

"Get serious! Do not try to cheat on me. The security here is very tight."

Kendra rifled the desk and the contents of her bag, looking for a cell phone to call the apartment security officer. Almost in despair, Kendra moved through her bed, searching the phone frantically.

"Do not overdo it. I am a Royal Princess. There's no way I can enter someone's home without permission," the woman said.

"What? A Princess? Do not joke. " Kendra laughed mockingly.

The woman nodded. "Yes, Princess of Water."

Kendra paused. Looking at the woman in her room with both amazement and disbelief. "Crystal?"

The woman smiled sweetly. "You know my name?"

Kendra swallowed. "I personally created your character."

Crystal, the Princess of Water, raised her thin eyebrows. Then lowered her knees and crossed her legs back while nodding her head slightly. "It's an honor to meet my writer. "

Kendra still did not budge at Crystal.

"Now, can I be returned to your script?"

"Forgive me. Regarding the way Princess can get to this world alone, I do not know. Moreover, the way back to your world, " Kendra replied with regret.

"Then what is the fate of the Water Kingdom? Does this mean I can not see Drake anymore? "Crystal showed a worried expression.

Kendra massaged her temples in hearing Crystal's questions. She tried to re-start from scratch until Crystal appeared in her room. Could this all start from her anger at Matt's phone line at the time?

Kendra pinched her own cheek. It felt sick. That meant she was not dreaming. God, she had turned on a fictional character.

***

Kendra insisted on meeting Matt at the boutique tonight. Her tone sounded quite urgent on the phone. Matt wondered as much as it mattered what Kendra was talking about until she got to Matt's place. They usually meet in Kendra's apartment because of Kendra's tendency to be more comfortable with her laptop and stationery than to hang out in the cafe.

All room lights had been turned off, except for the small lights that illuminated the window. Matt walked to his kitchen on the second floor. He was about to make some coffee.

Kendra has not arrived yet. Her mind was still wandering down the boutique. About the pretty mannequin. About Claire.

Voices like footsteps downstairs woke Matt from his reverie. He sharpened his ears then rose to the stairs. The voices sounded again. More clear.

Matt came down the stairs quietly so he did not make a sound that kept the source away. Arriving at the bottom, the voice was not heard anymore. Matt narrowed his eyes, looked around the boutique's corner with the lights from the window's lamps.

No, nothing. It might be only allucinations. Matt removed the unreasonable images of his thoughts.

The door bell rang.

It must be Kendra. Just in time.

"Have you done your writing?" Matt greeted as soon as the door opened.

"Better than that!" said Kendra with a mean smile.

"You can send it by email, no need special delivery tonight."

Matt's words stopped instantly as Crystal emerged from behind Kendra and went into the boutique. Matt saw Kendra and Crystal taking turns.

"Matt, this is Crystal. Crystal, this is Matthew's, our most successful and most available bachelor in this town."

"Do not listen to her," Matt said, waving his hand at Kendra and shaking hands with Crystal.

Crystal held out her hand. Got close to Matt and stroked his cheek. "It's just like Drake."

"Who's Drake?" Matt asked, confused.

"At least we can enjoy the warm tea made by the shop owner."

Matt rolled his eyes. "Wait here."

Matt returned to his kitchen on the second floor. Hot tea for the three has been available in a row of colorful cups.

While enjoying tea, Matt accompanied Crystal to see the contents of the boutique and interior. Together, the two of them were deep into a warm, intimate conversation that they did not realize the satisfied smile on Kendra's lips that had been watching them.

"Oh, it's so pretty!" Crystal cried as Matt showed the clothes in the window.

"Yes, this coat is the latest one, the red color makes her even more eye-catching."

"It's not the coat, I mean the mannequin."

Matt nodded as he looked at the mannequin Crystal meant. "Well, I know, she's pretty."

Crystal saw the rays of admiration in Matt's eyes. Blatantly.

Kendra did not like the way he looked at the statue. Like looking at a lover. It might be messy.

Should not. Matt should not like other woman. Love is a one-handed clap. Unclear and painful waiting. Like herself who could only look at Matt without being able to expect more.

That night, Kendra explained the length of Crystal's origins to Matt. That the story of Crystal was a script that was going to be shown to Matt. That Crystal would stay with Kendra until she could return to her world. That she and Crystal would often visit Matt's place for Crystal's own convenience. Except for one thing. About how Crystal got out of the fiction world, she did not tell Matt.

5.

LET'S SEE HOW HIGH WE CAN FLY!

You are too beautiful,

to be abandoned.

\----------------------------------------------------------

There was always a first time for everything.

Turned on the power socket. Opened the lid. Entered the packaging. Closed. Turned the time button. Pressed on the button. Okay, then stay waiting until it was cooked.

I was always curious about this one human habit. Every morning, noon, and night they always did the same thing. Eat.

Unfortunately I did not understand how hungry it was. While being lonely. I wanted to try the food in Matthew's kitchen. There was no chance at all last night.

Matt was visited by two pretty ladies who kept him busy until late at night, for a business I did not quite understand until I get sleepy. Matt was always surrounded by beautiful women. No doubt about his charming.

But what amazed me was the way that woman look at Matt. Exudes a hidden desire in it. As if she wanted to master Matt.

An overview of the roasting tool immediately popped into my head. Included people who hold barbecues in parks, men and women, woo each other and joke.

BUM!

The sound was not the result of my daydreaming. Hard to hear nearby. Even the smell of smoke was so obvious. Smoke. Oh, smoke!

A steaming smoke with a scorching smell of nose and a shrill noise came from a microwave in the corner of the kitchen. Frantically, I got up from my seat and quickly grabbed the basin. I splashed the water from the sink basin immediately into the microwave without thinking.

Splash!

Slowly the smoke disappeared. Leaving the smell of bad odor behind.

Not so eating. The cooker is broken. What's this called, huh? Shit?

***

Matt really memorized the conditions of his minimalist kitchen furniture. It should be all right as he had left it before. Be exactly in their place. But what he saw now was far from what it was supposed to be. The top shelf door opened. Cluttered closet contents. The basin was lying on the floor. Microwave turned to black.

Matt opened the microwave door. Black smoke snorted out. Matt looked around. Ck! Right in the microwave, a pack of instant noodles looked melted, crushed, and charred, black like charcoal. The noodles burst into small pieces in the microwave.

Anyone who had entered his flat by force must be a person who was starving very much. A person who had no idea of using a microwave. A person who had never seen an instant noodles.

Kres! Kres! Kres!

The sound came from a third floor. There was one equipment in the kitchen he had not checked yet. Refrigerator.

Ffiuuhh! Thank goodness the contents were still okay. He could not imagine the hassles he would face if he had to clean the broken eggs.

Kres! Kres! Kres!

The voice was heard again, followed by faint by the sound of television. Matt stepped slowly toward the stairs. Benefiting from the ceramic base, Matt did not have to tiptoe up the stairs because his footing would not cause a sound.

One more step. And there he went.

***

The shape was interesting. Small, thin and crisp. It was tasty. I liked to eat it. Unfortunately there were only small amounts of the contents in a large plastic packaging.

Square thing with flat size in front of me was also not less interesting. Lighted up with moving pictures and could speak anyway.

The night was past late. I felt sleepy. My body began to stiffen. Time to get up before I turned back into mannequin on the way to the store downstare, as Matt discovered me in the mannequin shape on the carpet.

But Matt was not back yet, huh? Going down, suddenly we were both stunned.

***

"Claire?"

"Matt," I whispered.

"What are you doing here?"

I smiled shyly. "I want to try your food stock."

"Your clothes?" Looks like Matt did not hear my answer just now.

I looked at my clothes then looked at him confused. "Yes?"

"It's a boutique trench coat, I told Rika and Lily to put it in a mannequin."

I turned my gaze to the floor, avoiding eye contact with Matt. "Your choice is very good."

"Look at me, Claire." Matt took my chin and lifted it up.

I saw his eyes as he pleased. He stared into my eyes deeply, and long. "No wonder the mannequin's green eyes seems familiar to me."

Nervous, I swallowed and licked my dry lips. My deed made Matt's look move to my lips.

"Shit!" Matt cursed, lowered his face and kissed my lips. Passionately. Hard. Without any tenderness.

Before he was out of breath, Matt let go of his kiss as he groaned. "Argh! Why do my defenses always collapse every time I am near to you?"

"But no, this time I had to hang in. You owe me a lot of explanations, Claire."

"I'm so sleepy, Matt." I yawned and paused.

Matt patted my cheek softly. "Wait, Claire."

I was sorry, Matt, but I could not manage this body schedule. I could not move at my own will. Because I was the mannequin.

Matt put me back in the window gently and very carefully. Since knowing the mannequin was me, his became sweeter and gave me more affections.

Matt looked at me again. He stood with his hands in jeans pocket. I did not know what he was thinking at the moment. I could not bear sleep anymore. Sleep felt better.

***

Fiona looked surprised at a woman sitting in front of her, next to Kendra, whom she knew as Matt's friend and writer at Matt's bookstore. Ever since the woman came with her into the boutique, she just sat and smiled as she stared at Matt who was busy in his office. Several times she looked at the window and looked at Matt again.

"So what's that picture you brought today, Fin?"

Matt came out of his room and stood towering on the edge of the couch with the height of nearly two meters. Fiona pulled out a folder from her bag and handed it to Matt. For a long time Matt looked at the contents of the folder and sat next to Fiona. Several photographs of the models that brought Fiona's designs were put by Matt on the table.

"This is my design that will be held next season.You can borrow it for your boutique's collection."

"The fashion show?"

"The help I have asked for is just the venue for the show and the models that will bring it in. Those in these photos are newly signed with us next season, and they have their own schedule this month."

"I'll make an appointment as soon as possible with our agency."

"I'll be home as soon as possible."

Matt raised his eyebrows. "Why such a hurry?"

"Hello, Matt! You still have other guests waiting for you." Fiona snapped her finger in his face.

Matt turned to his consciousness. "Oh, I'm sorry!"

Fiona noticed the girl next to Kendra nodding in understanding. Kendra did not respond to anything. Her face implied she's somewhere else, daydreaming. Dreamy looking at Matt.

"Okay, I just pull it off!" Fiona picked up her bag and waved away.

"So what do we talk about, Kendra?" Matt asked immediately after Fiona left.

"I think I messed up," Fiona said quietly.

"Why?"

"Drake was out of my story."

"Who?"

"Drake is the Prince of Fire. He is my lover." Crystal let her voice out.

Matt massaged his temple. "Tell me, Kendra."

Kendra cleared her throat for a moment before beginning to explain. "I am writing the story of two very opposite kingdoms, the Kingdom of Water and the Kingdom of Fire, each led by a prince and a princess."

"Let me guess, Princess of Water is Crystal, the Prince of Fire is Drake," Matt said.

Kendra nodded. "They can not unite even though they love each other because it means destroying themselves," he continued.

"Then?"

"My story will not reach the final chapter if the main character does not exist, and they will gradually disappear if they linger in our world."

"Where did Drake disappear? Given from our chat yesterday, Crystal's appearance began in your apartment, right?"

Kendra shook her head. "Only his sword and Crsytal."

"But he must be around here because Drake can not stand that far from me," Crystal said.

"What kind of features?"

"Her face looks like you," Kendra answered. She did describe it in her writing because of her years of obsession with Matt.

"Yeah, it would not be hard to find him," Matt said with sarcasm. "Like chasing my own shadow."

"Uh, sorry I bothered you again, Matt, I have to go for a while because there's a business, I'll come back later." Kendra stood up quickly.

"Okay."

"No, I'm going alone, Crystal while I'm here while waiting for me to go home together."

"Oh, I see." Matt turned to Crystal. "Go ahead," she smiled.

***

I'd been watching only passersby. This was all I can did with my immobile body. Maybe sleeping back was an activity I was forced to do to get rid of my saturation. But I just woke up.

Suddenly a piece of face clung to the window of the window, wide-eyed with his mouth opened. He was staring at me. I was very confused. Why was Matt surprised when he saw me? The clothes were also strange. Long black coat and crown. Was there a costume celebration today?

Matt knocked on the door of the boutique. Usually he went straight in. Why did he knock first? Moreover, the door was never locked during opening hours.

He knocked again. But nothing was open. Maybe it was a lunch break outside. Matt tried to turn the doorknob. Hesitantly, he entered the boutique after the door opened slightly.

Matt came up to me and, BUKK! Matt hugged me.

"Crystal!"

Crystal? I'm not Crystal! Of course he did not hear my protest.

"Finally I found you, Crystal! But why are you so this way? What is this? Alien world?"

You're unbelievable, Matt!

"I'll take you back to our world." He looked at me intently as she sums up my face. "No, we stay in this world alone because here I can embrace you freely, unhindered by the existence of fire or water within us."

What was he talking about?

Matt hugged my waist and pulled me out of the boutique. Hurrying, he took me running toward a giant balloon at the end of the road.

It was my first time out of a boutique. Felt the freedom. Breathe the wind that slapped my cheeks when invited to run. Enjoyed the warmth of the sun.

The balloon took us upstairs. Fly high, far away, until everything just looked like the dots below there. Inside the balloon basket, Matt and I stood side by side, hugged each other. Not exactly. Embraced by him.

"For the moment we forget the problems of our kingdom."

Kingdom? Matt's talking nonsense again.

***

"Sto..ph ..," Matt asked as he saw Crystal coming toward him.

Matt had not finished protesting, his lips had been silenced by Crystal. On the desk in his office, Crystal pushed Matt with his deep kiss.

Still pressing with his kisses, Crystal tried to unbutton Matt's shirt but was soon pushed over by Matt's hand. Matt managed to push back Crystal and wiped his lips roughly.

"What're you doing?" shouted Matt. His eyes were staring at Crystal.

Crystal was staring at Matt and smiled sweetly. Her eyes were obviously shining the rays of worship to Matt. "I'm so glad we finally got together, Drake, I miss you."

"You're crazy! I'm not Drake!"

Crystal took another step toward Matt. "Yeah, you are Drake, being stranded in this world, you have lost all memory about me, about us and our kingdom."

"Do not speak crazy, Crystal, I'm Matt, not your lover Drake, I'll call Fiona to pick you up."

"No, you must come with me, we will return to our world together." Crystal hesitated a moment, then spoke again. "Maybe we should just stay in this world because here we can unite while in our world we can not touch at all."

"It's out of the blue, I'll call now." Matt pulled the phone out of his pocket and dialed the numbered dial.

"Excuse me, sorry to bother." Doni knocked on Matt's open door.

Matt canceled his call. "What's the matter, Don?"

"Our mannequins are gone."

Matt ran out of the room. Check the storefront and find what Doni said was true. He looked around the boutique anxiously, searching for Claire's whereabouts.

"How can you get lost? Are not you all here?"

"I was busy while Lily and Rika took lunch break," Doni replied.

Maybe he was in the kitchen like last night, Matt thought. Matt moved upstairs, stepping two or two steps at a time. He trailed every room on the second and third floors impatiently. The result is still nil.

"Where are you, Claire?" Matt hissed in despair. "I just found out, but you disappear again."

6.

THE BURNING OF THE FIGHT

Although we are getting further away,

I will not let this sense disappear.

\--------------------------------------

The tip of the pencil in Fiona's hand curled lightly on paper. It created a firm sketch on a pattern she is drawing. Illustration of fabric texture that appeared floating on the body of a croquis model in runway pose showed the dress was made of thin and slippery. Fiona concentrated on some unique details that became the basic element of the design, added a bit of accessories as a finishing touch until it turned into the sketch of a very beautiful dress.

She put pencil on the side of the paper and stared at the finished picture with a sparkle. Fiona smiled with satisfaction to see the face of a croquis model painted in the design. "Matt would not have guessed it at all."

Fiona opened the drawer beside her table. Pick up the phone to call Matt to notify him of his design changes.

A busy tone was heard from across. Fiona tried to call again. A busy tone was still heard. She glanced at the wall clock hanging in her room. Maybe Matt was busy with his date this late night. Fiona switched off her desk lamp, grunting with annoyance.

***

I thought I was dead, but I was just unconscious. The only thing I see around me was darkness. This room was so hot that I was hard to breathe.

I raised my head up, guessing the sky of the room amid the faintness of my vision. My head is dizzy. The body feels crumbling. Want to feel like going away from this room but I can not. I can not move much.

I do not know what happened to me while I was unconscious and how long have I been unconscious.

A faint sound from outside the room. A woman seemed to be having a conversation with her friend. The approaching footsteps made me pound for who will appear behind the door.

The door opened. A glimpse of the peeping light had dazzled my view that was getting used to the darkness of the room. I could not see clearly the face of the footprint owner.

"How are you, mannequin? Drake's really troubling me." Kendra sighed. After turning on the light switch, she walked over to me and stood looking at me for a long time.

I knew her as a friend of Matt who once came to the boutique. How could I be in her place? Where's Matt?

The door opened wide. A pair of faces emerged from behind the door. Ah, thank goodness you're here too, Matt!

The man with Matt's face stepped in with a beautiful long-haired woman, almost the same color as my hair, wearing a peach dress that covered her body to knees, blended in with her pale white skin, implying the aura of a fragile princess. The woman also once came with Kendra.

I smiled at Matt. But Matt never took his eyes off the beautiful woman beside him. They smiled at each other with their hands clasped.

I did not look enough beautiful, did I? The last thing I remember was Matt took me flying with him while expressing his deep longing for me. Then where were all that? Why did he deliberately show affection with other woman in front of me this time?

There was one pain I did not recognize. Could this be the jealousy I was feeling now? I did not want to be replaced by another woman. I did not want Matt to love me anymore. I did not want Matt to make love to a woman other than me. I did not want it to happen.

I was jealous. Yes, I was jealous.

"Drake, Crystal, I have to get you back to where you are, it's all wrong."

"But we want to spend more time in your world, and it's only here that Drake and I can hug each other like this without worrying about hurting each other." Crystal begged.

"We have made a fatal mistake." Kendra shook her head. "Not us, but me."

"Why?" asked Drake.

"Because I have written stories based on my darkest emotions, and I force you to participate in my dark tactics, showing myself in front of Matt and his lover to draw their attention as well as separating them."

What did they mean? I did not understand. Matt, please took me out of here.

Matt kissed her lips softly. "I thought I'd lost you, Princess, seeing you as a mannequin just made me shock, especially when the giant flying balloon that we ride suddenly loses balance and makes you fall down, somehow if Kendra does not find our location."

I remembered now. That meant the pain I felt all over my body because of our air balloon that had flown high and then run out of gas in the middle of the journey.

"Yes, I know because I wrote the story like that," Kendra said.

"Then please write down the storyline that can unite us in the Kingdom of Water and Fire when we're back in your writing world," Drake said and kissed Crystal's short forehead.

Oh, Matt! How could you kiss another woman in front of me.

I wanted to run. Hurry up, my body, be alive! Please move immediately. I did not want to linger to see the scenery of their affection.

"I want to take you to Matt's favorite cafe," said Kendra.

Do not lock. Do not close the door. I begged my heart as I watched them come out of the room. I was determined to find Matt. To the cafe they mentioned earlier. Before passing from his life, as he wanted. I would convey the taste that had long settled in the chest. I wished he knew that there were something in my heart. A feeling I knew was called LOVE.

***

My body was not stiff anymore. I got the moment to move. My heart was pounding as I tried to sneak toward the door of Kendra's apartment before they realized it. I followed them to the parking lot and got into Kendra's car trunk with as quiet as possible. Waiting patiently until the car stopped and they'd all gone away from the car.

I opened the trunk of my car and breathed in the free air. Now I was in front of the cafe that was meant by Kendra earlier.

From the outside, the cafe looked bright and cozy. The appearance of the sills and shutters were fake into a unique ornament on the outside wall. Coupled with accessories bottles of drinks and food containers that came to enliven the false wall decorations.

In the cafe, the atmosphere looked very quiet. Probably because the night was getting late. This actually helped me find Matt's whereabouts.

In the corner of the room marked VIP, he looked very distressed behind the empty glasses on his desk. Why was he alone? Where were the others?

I must find a way to get my message to Matt. Luckily, a greeting card with a heart symbol was found near the bar table. I did not know who it belonged to, but I did not have much time to track them down. My eyes were looking for someone who could write a message. A piece of glowing red dress from the back of the stage caught my attention from walking toward him.

***

A woman in her red long dress sang in a very melodious voice. She sit with crossed legs while holding the loudspeaker. With only a pianist's accompaniment, she performed a very fascinating song for all the cafe's visitors. While completing the singing, she smiled at Matt, who was sitting on the VIP sofa.

Matt knew the singer glanced at him from the stage. He had to admit, she was fascinating. Successfully drugged him with elegant red color that evoked his taste in women who wear it. But not all women. He's just interested in a Claire.

That name made him stranded tonight at this cafe. In the midst of a fairly empty cafe atmosphere, Matt had already finished a few glasses of vodka. They would not make him drunk but enough for an escape.

Almost a month he slept alone. Repeating night after night without the warmth of Claire, who accompanied him even in her abnormal timings, came and went as she liked, even more often to his surprise.

The music flowed and turned into instrumental. The pianist kept playing while the singer got off the stage and then turned to Matt.

"Waiting for someone?" She asked kindly after sitting in front of Matt.

"Mm-hmm," Matt muttered lazily. His fingers twisted an almost empty drink glass without any interest at all.

"I am here to deliver a message from someone backstage." The woman put a small piece of paper on the table. "She said it should be submitted to you after finishing my song."

Matt took the paper and opened it. His forehead creased.

"Have a good night," she said as she got ready to leave him.

"Wait!" Matt snapped. "Did she say her name?" Matt's question stopped the woman's step from leaving.

The woman shook her head. "All I remember is her eyes. Green and pretty. "

Claire? Matt got up from the couch. The effects of liquor that he had greeted immediately affected him and made him stagger and almost fell.

"Which way did she go?"

The woman looked at Matt with a worried look. "I have no idea. I'm sorry. Do you need me to call the officer to help supporting you?"

Matt shook his head weakly. It seemed she did not recognize Matt's face as a cafe owner.

"I'm still on my own," Matt said in a slightly offended tone.

The woman nodded understood then turned away. Matt reached into his pocket. He should call Kendra, soon!

***

"Hi, Matt!" Kendra exclaimed shortly after she pressed the answer button on her cell phone. "What is wrong?"

"..."

"Where do you want to meet?"

"..."

"Oh, we're in the same place, just tell me where your table is, we'll stop by soon."

***

Matt noticed once again the black-robed man sitting in front of him right now, with Kendra and Crystal. Although he had heard Kendra's explanation just now, but he was still amazed by the fictional characters of her creation. Kendra's act really made him shudder to himself. Kendra begged him to understand all the recent events that had happened to her selfishness, Crystal and Drake.

"With one condition." Matt agreed.

"What is it?"

"I need your help to get Claire back."

"Claire?" Kendra frowned, then as if something came up, she covered her mouth with her hand as she widened her eyes in disbelief.

"Do not tell me it's the mannequin's name. You gave it a name by yourself?"

Matt just smiled as an answer to Kendra's question.

7.

AWKWARD SILENCE

Let it never be uttered

the feeling that lives in my chest .....

\--------------------------------------------

I really did not understand why I love Matt. And I was not human. Love was indeed able to penetrate the limit of reasonableness.

Ever since I met Matt as the owner of the boutique when I was on display, I felt a great rumble in my chest. The rumble I once thought was a mere passion. So great that my body could move to get the intimacy and warmth of his embrace.

This debacle came not only because of the first sight, but also because every night Matt always hugged me.

Sleeping with the warm embrace of Matt made this feeling even more intense. Exceeded the longing.

As a mannequin, I expected Matt to talk to me sometime. Even though I knew, Matt could not possibly hear my voice while talking to him. Talking to him also still did not change me to be more alive.

I loved being around Matt even though I knew Matt had a lot of admirers. I was sure Matt did not move to another heart because I gave the best for him, even a terrific romance on his bed.

But I did not expect to see her proximity to her. There was a pain in my heart whenever she looked at Crystal intimately at the time in Kendra's apartment. Hopefully the greeting paper cake at the cafe was a powerful way for Matt to know there was love in my heart for him. I want him to know. At least he knew first.

It really hurt. Loving a human being who had not been ascertained would reply with the same love.

Sometimes I thought Matt was playing with me. Momentarily made me float happily, but moments later he pierced me with his cold manner. I realized that this love was wrong. I could not do anything.

It was this resignation that dragged me back to this place. DESIREE Boutique. The thunderous roar, the small water spots that began to fall, and the rush of high winds made me fall lying cold. Stabbed many times by water falling from the sky. My body was hard to move away from the amount of water that affects me. In the end I went back to the silence. Unconscious.

"The rain had not stopped since this morning. It will be quiet all day," Doni looked at the sky from the boutique window.

"Doni! Rika! Look over here! The mannequin has returned, "Lily cried from the boutique terrace.

Doni and Rika rushed out of the boutique. The three of them were both stunned, stared at the mannequin that was lying on the porch floor in a drenched and dirty state.

"Oh my goodness, who has put it haphazardly here?" With a little squatting, Rika intended to carry the mannequins into the boutique.

Doni touched Rika's shoulder. "Let me do it." Doni offers help. He covered the mannequin's body with a large towel and then brought it inside. Rika and Lily joined in.

"I will clean her in the shed first until it is ready for display again," Doni said. Rika and Lily nodded in agreement and then returned to their job.

Arriving at the warehouse, Doni locked the door and put the key in his pocket. Then he put the mannequin carefully in the back corner. The warehouse was stocked with items wrapped neatly in plastic packaging. Well ordered. Very quiet. Equipped with illuminated lighting, Doni picked up some dry napkins and shifted a chair into the center of the room just under the light. The mannequin was put on a chair in a sitting position.

The fingers of Doni began to move slowly, opened the buttons of the mannequin's long coat. Stacked on the floor with leggings jeans that he opened next.

***

Feelings of fear suddenly appeared in my heart. I was left lingering in the cold silence with Doni. Doni's face felt closer. Both eyes looked at me with a cold smile. Smile that looked more like a grin and looked very dangerous. I saw the figure of Doni in front of me at this time was much different than the usual Doni figure.

"Don, what's wrong?" I asked stammered as Doni's hands grabbed both of my wrists firmly. Of course he did not hear my voice. The blast of his breath that caressed my face made me cringe.

Doni let go of his check. Instead, his hand reached out to caress my cheeks.

"You're really beautiful," he whispered. "If you were not a mannequin, I'd take you right now to my bed. Unfortunately, the boss told me not to take you. "

What did he mean? I was now really frightened when Doni rubbed the tip of his nose against my neck while blowing softly behind my ears.

"Your lips really tease me from the first time I saw you in a boutique. I did not think your body was very tempting. It's really like human. "

Doni looked at my lips with a hungry face. "I want to feel your lips."

"No!" I shouted. It feels like crying. But this warehouse was really quiet and soundproof. I felt a very strange silence penetrating my heart. I felt very weak, vulnerable, helpless. There was no love. There was no presence of someone who could protect me.

No Matt.

Please ..., anyone ..., please ...

Unexpectedly, Doni touched the tip of his tongue to my lips, licking it along the curved line. With a grin, he continued to taste with his wet tongue. Made me feel disgusted and disgusted.

Though my mind was trying to deny all her treatment, but my skin felt so obviously the roughness of her hands as she felt, stroked, and squeezed the entire surface of my mannequin.

No sobs. No tears. I cried in silence. My eyes closed. The silence was so overwhelming. Again I thought I was dead.

***

"DAMN YOU, DON !!" Matt shouted furiously as he thumped his desk.

Still clearly recorded in his memory when he found Doni after breaking the door until broken. He fell asleep in the barn all night. No clothes at all. Lying on Claire under the same conditions as her.

If not immediately contacted by Lily, Matt did not dare to imagine what will happen next. Lily and Rika were suspicious with Doni since he entered the warehouse. The locked door added to their concerns that something unexpected had happened. Matt himself who was on his way back to the boutique turned panicked and angry after getting a phone, drove his car like a crazy and speed along the arterial road.

The first thing Matt did was to save Claire. After making sure Claire was in a safe place with Rika and Lily, Matt striked Doni outright. One hard blow on his face made Doni fell to the floor. With a chuckle, Doni wiped the corner of his lips. The taste he'd caught had proven the presence of blood flowing in the corner of his lips. Doni looked up and met Matt's eyes who were looking at him sharply.

His gaze seemed to tear Doni into small pieces. He gave the killer look to Doni.

Doni stood up, not ashamed of his existence and advanced toward his boss. He smiled sarcastically at Matt's clenched fists at his sides as he growled with emotion. He did not feel intimidated at all. With one eyebrow lifted up, Doni instead snorted.

"Why are you so angry? Ck! For an inanimate object that has no value?"

"Once again those words come out of your impertinent mouth, I'll make your face battered formlessly," Matt hissed.

"Threatening me, heh?" Bum's appetite was terrible, too, just aroused with a mannequin statue. How does such a lifeless thing satisfy your man's desires? How can her cool skin make your bed warm? "

Matt shifted his fist back to Doni's face, his jaws pushed back. A fist landed on his stomach, stabbing deeply to the point that Doni threw up. Not quite up there, Matt kicked Doni right in the ribs until he fell back down. Matt kept beating him down. Oddly Doni did not reply to all the blows.

Lily's screams stopped Matt from his blind acts. He was aware of Doni's state that only silently resigned in front of him.

"I can not believe I've hired you here."

"Well, well, this is very interesting." Doni's voice sounded very mocking. He did not care about his already weak condition. "What relationship is there between you and the mannequin statue? I wonder if there is a buyer who has offered the mannequin, my advice sir, give him to the highest bidder."

"You were really sick!" Matt shook his head at Doni's chatter that began to flow in a direction. He felt it was useless to wait on Doni's words. Draining emotions. "You'd better take care of your filthy body then put your clothes on again."

Matt turned to Lily. "How is the mannequin?"

"It's clean, sir. There were no blisters or scratches on his skin. Rika has put her back in the window. We have knee-length floral dresses, beach hats and floral floral sandals. "

Most important to him now, Claire had been found and survived. He would take care of Doni later. Doni needed more psychiatric care but Kendra should be notified in advance.

8.

MY SUN

You give your heart,

I gave my heart ...

\------------------------------------

-written by Kendra-

Sun. The biggest object in the solar system. Sources of energy for sustainable living. Warming the earth. Forming a climate. Holding the balance of all the celestial bodies around it. Enticing with its great gravity. Pursuing him was my obsession. Made it my sun is my dream.

The last chapter written by Kendra was the decisive fate of Drake and Crystal that she created from the beginning of the story. Kendra felt burdened to quickly finish her writing. The reason she took part to bring the characters of Drake and Crystal thrown into the human world.

Kendra was determined to be in control of the script. The initial goal was to avenge Matt's disregard for her feelings but she could not carry them. Her heart could not bear to see the suffering of Crystal and

Drake who hold back the longing so great as not to mutually exclude the groove that she created. But nobody could guess. It turned out the story to have no power in the real world. Crystal and Drake could not play any more to separate Matt from his lover. No longer poles of mutual attraction, Crystal and Drake would be two pieces of inseparable puzzle.

The phone above the desk vibrated. Kendra closed her laptop and then shifted her cell phone screen.

"Hello, Matt?"

"..."

"How good is that?"

"..."

"What? Doni, your employee?"

"..."

"My script is almost finished, I'll send the email as

soon as it's done."

"..."

"Yes Matt, I try to make the ending of the story happy. Drake and Crystal have to go back to their world."

***

Boutique had long been closed. The window curtains had been lowered. The room light had been dimmed.

Matt was always handsome in every appearance. I never tired of glancing at him from where I stood. Wear striped gray shirt rolled up to elbows, unbuttoned black vest, trousers with a lighter color, and shiny black pantofel boots. Well, maybe a date like the previous nights.

Still with Crystal or a new woman again, I do not care. I want to get rid of the love that has settled in the bottom of my heart deep. I want my heart to be calm again, away from a very disturbing rumble.

"Claire, do you hear me now?" greeted Matt gently.

I heard right, did not I?

Matt turned my body around so that our eyes met each other. His lips braced his fascinating patent smile.

"It's been a long time since I want to talk like this with you, just the two of us, in the absence of someone else, with no activity in bed."

I was a little embarrassed to hear it when I was mentioned in our romance.

"Do you know how lucky I am to be found with you, as a boutique mannequin, you've caught all the eyes of the visitors who came in. And I have to admit, it's really helping our sale. As a real woman, you are a great lover. addicted to and languish by the uncertainty you offer."

Did you ever see the flowers blooming in the garden? That was how my heart right now after hearing Matt's words. It was so splendid. Full of colors. SuddenlyI forgot my determination to erode my love for Matt. I let him be beautiful in my heart.

"Claire, I do not care where you come from, how you can be created, how you can suddenly come before me and then disappear away in unexpected time." Matt stepped closer, narrowing the distance between our faces and looking straight into my eyes.

"Have I told you the color of your eyes is so beautiful? The green is able to hypnotize me." Matt then chuckled softly. "You're very clever to use it for me, Claire, but I do not mind."

His eyes shone witty. I loved to see his face line when laughing. I fell in love with his good looks. Falling in love with his posture. Falling in love even from the beginning he did not think I existed.

Love. Love. Love.

For the first time, I felt alive. Matt took me to talk. Talked about everything. Just like a human being, not a dead object.

I did not care anymore with a woman named Crystal or the other woman if there was another. Getting this sweet and tender attention like a couple on dating, all I consider only a mere memory.

"When you were forcibly taken by Drake, did you have any pain or injury?" Matt asked, checking my body.

Drake again. Who was Drake? I was never forcibly taken away. You yourself brought me in a hurry then.

"Kendra is really a unique writer, now there she is!" Matt pointed toward the door. Kendra came with a pair of lovers holding hands together.

The man was very similar to Matt, both face and posture. He wore a long black suit like clothes from the dark ages. Wait a minute! If he was not Matt, then what attracted me to fly with that guy? Then who was he?

"It's kind of weird to see you two talking like that," Kendra said once they were near us.

"Hi, Claire!" Kendra greeted me cheerfully while waving her hand in front of my face.

He knew my name?

"Matt has told me a lot about you, I'm sorry if it's still a bit awkward, because since childhood I rarely play with dolls, so I can not imagine talking to imaginary friends."

Kendra glanced at the couple who came with her.

"They are the Prince of Fire and the Princess of Water, coming from the story I wrote myself Drake and Crystal I wrote them for my personal problems. I have liked Matt for a long time, unfortunately Matt never replied."

Matt shrugged his shoulders nonchalantly. "Not that I do not want to, Kendra, but even if I tried, I still can not feel the love, we can only be friends.

"Until this unrequited feeling turned into an obsession," Kendra continued.

"Luckily you noticed it quickly," Matt added.

"Before it's too late," Kendra nodded. "I do not want my story characters to disappear because of my own act."

Matt and the cloaked man stood side by side. If not paid attention carefully, their appearance was the same. Even the hairstyle was exactly the same even though the cloaked man come from different country and time. Kendra described the male character in her story really resembles Matt. How Kendra's obsession affect her script so much.

"So when can she move?" Kendra asked Matt.

"I don't know, usually late at night."

"I can not stay longer, Matt, I think my explanation is enough.You sure she's listening to my words?"

"Yes," Matt said shortly, glancing at me. Again I blushed myself.

***

She. Mine. Forever.

The cold of the outside air due to the newly stopped rain was very contrary to the heat of the aura emitted from the eyes. So burning with a passionate desire.

He watched the five people from outside the boutique. Sneak in order to read their lips movements to know the content of the conversation. But in vain. All he saw was Claire. Claire sucked the focus of his attention from the beginning. If he can not have Claire, then no one else. Including Matt.

He wants to kill Matt. His gaze toward the boutique was painful. Brokenheart was still less sharp than the pain he was feeling now. The pain of being separated from her beautiful mannequin. No one can do that to him. Not allowed, though Matt.

9.

DEAR STRANGER, WHY ME?

One mistake I regret,

Falling in love with you ...

\-------------------------------------------------- -

Again, my foolishness about something called hope. Why were there boundaries between me and Matthew? The boundaries that I hope can be penetrated by love but love itself also had limitations.

I did want to be near Matt without space and time restrictions. Without body dimensions. Grasping happiness together, as human being. Was there a way to get there? Why should I be destined to fall in love with a man named Matt?

My stomach tingled as I felt a heavy pair of heavy arms wrapped around my waist. His arms moved up, stroked his arms and back with his fingers and then trace down. I gasped as well as felt the pleasure when the arm embraced one of my legs and hooked it to his hips and felt myself. I closed my eyes tightly, dissolved in the pleasure he gave me. I wriggle my hips in despair. Unmercifully, the union of our bodies made faster and more intense until my fingernails gripped his muscular back as the sensation of the release lulled us together. I vaguely saw the man kissed my cheek gently and whisper affectionately, "I love you, Claire." His voice sounded familiar to my ears.

I was startled and opened my eyes wide with a gasping breath. Dark. Alone. In the boutique storefront.

Oh, dear! I just dreamed erotic. Making love with men was hoarse and heavy. A sexy voice that always sparked her passion. Matthew Davenheart. The owner of the voice itself may be sleeping soundly in his room upstairs. They both agreed to spend the night with no romance at all. Matt wanted to keep the honor of their relationship.

I was so embarrassed. The dream felt so real because I felt the warmth around my groin. The dream still left the rest of the pleasure in me. I stared in the dim light of the boutique room, watched the rain falling through the glass.

I heard the sound of a key being turned from the front door. The boutique door was opened slowly. A black shadow came in tiptoe toward him. A thieve? Evil? Suddenly the fear took over my heart. Before I realized who was coming, my eyes were covered with a cloth.

My body was lifted and carried lightly on the person's shoulder. At once, the darkness made me unconscious.

***

He was sure he was dreaming right now. As he recalled, Claire was still in the boutique room. But why did Matt feel a tenderness stretching beneath his body? A sensual sigh was heard as he tried to shift his weight. He immediately realized it was Claire's voice. Without thinking any longer, Matt spiced a beautiful body beneath it. Moving with turmoil. Teasing intimately.

Then with a single jolt, Matt ushered both of them to the beautiful surge of romance. Until the moan of pleasure finally picked them up when the hot rumble whacked both bodies.

Matt was happy. His lips kept whispering the words of love in her ear. Gradually he felt something soft being embraced. Matt opened his eyes widely and found that it was a pillow. OMG! That meant he made love in a dream.

Matt got up and sat down on his bed. Self-absorbed over an erotic dream that felt so real. Even the lower part of his body was still throbbing to be satisfied. His longing for Claire really entered his body until it was carried away to the realm of dreams.

Which made Matt curious, how could he be exposed to Claire's love spell? Hypnotized in every eyelid. Made Matt down to his knees. Melted in his fingers. Matt began to realize he was in love with a Claire.

***

He sat in the corner, clutching her weak and helpless body. Stroking Claire's long hair, he kissed the scent of his victim's neck.

Surprised and unexpectedly, the mannequins he's been after may turn into human being. In the midst of torrential rain, on the way to the hideout in an old house not far from the boutique location, Doni felt the mannequins he carried was heavier. Also warm. No longer cold like the usual statue of a mannequin. Soon he realized that the body he was carrying was the body of a woman.

"Really, seeing you as a human is a bonus I did not expect before." A wicked grin appeared on Doni's lips. "Actually I want to wake you up, but I do not want to be bothered if you thrashed later. I really want to enjoy this moment without a fight. "

She lifted Claire's hand over her head and fastened both of her wrists with a rope. The same thing was done on both feet of Claire. Her gown was clenched by force until Claire's body was exposed entirely before his eyes. "Very exciting." Doni stared at her.

"Too bad, my goal is not for this. I want to take my revenge on Mr. Matthew who is very compassionate and has kindly ejected me from his shop without reporting me to the authorities. Moreover, why should he bother to report, no one will believe him. It might even be considered crazy. "Doni laughed horribly.

"Let's start this very favorite ritual. I can hardly wait to hear your screams. I can imagine the satisfaction I'll get." Doni pulled out a dagger from his jacket pocket. The flash was dazzling in a dark room.

"Hmm .., which part of the body will I first engrave?" He muttered to himself.

"You know, killing by fire is my specialty." Suddenly the terrifying and gripping silence was solved by someone's heavy voice.

Doni turned around. The beam in his eyes turned quickly into a dangerous smile.

"Ah, the sympathetic Mr. Matthew finally came to save his mannequin lover."

"Let me fix your eyesight before calling me. I'm not Matthew. "

"I'm not in the mood to play guessing right now. Do not try to distract me. "

Drake came closer to Doni, exposing himself more clearly. One frown appeared in the corner of Doni's eye after realizing the figure standing before him. There was a burning embers in Drake's hands.

"Who are you?"

"You do not need to know. Now, let go of Claire. "

"Claire?" Doni's laughter reverberated throughout the room. "So this mannequin has a name, eh?"

Drake looked at Doni unmoved.

"I will release it when I offer death and slice it before Mr. Mathhew. If I can not have it, then no one else.

"Calmly, Doni put his knife against Claire's neck.

"If you do something more to her, I'll kill you in a more horrible way until you'll feel every second of my hot fire burning you up," Drake hissed angrily.

Doni shook his head in disbelief. "Not until I hurt this beautiful mannequin." Doni picked up his knife and made a slashing motion on Claire's cheek.

***

The cold of the knife made me wake up. I gasped when I feel pain and tenderness on my cheek's skin. But only the darkness I could see with my eyes covered.

I tried to move but my arms and legs cramped. I feel the pain when I try to move it again. Oh no. Tied?

The burning hot air touched my entire skin. Very sting as if to burn. Exceeded the heat of the sun during the hot day.I knew immediately that my body was not wearing a single threads. Who would plan something evil to me? Where was I?

"Please ... !!" I screamed begging.

"Wait there, Claire!" A voice I knew ordered.

"Matt?"

No answer. What came next was the sound of a blow and a small explosion, followed by the sound of someone's shout.

No more heat. I shivered cold without the clothes that wrapped me. Someone covered me with a thick blanket. The straps on my legs were released. Then he opened the blindfold.

"Drake?" I asked confusedly.

Drake looked at me anxiously. He wiped my bloody cheeks. "Sorry, you got hurt. Although it's just a small scratch, we have to cure it immediately. "

Drake picked me up, swayed me in his arms. I was relieved and grateful to be saved by him. I do not care how somehow he can come to this place and get rid of the villain who took me away.

***

Kendra stopped her typing on the laptop and turned toward the door of her room. "Come in," she said after hearing a tap.

The door of the room opened. Drake and Crystal walked in approaching Kendra.

"How was it?" Kendra asked curiously.

Drake nodded. Crystal smiled. Kendra immediately understood the meaning.

"Thank goodness. At least there's something I can do for them for my selfish attitude." Kendra sighed with relief. "Thanks to Crystal, Claire's presence information really helps Drake to release her from danger."

"The rain told me." Crystal warned.

"Yes, because you are Princess of Water," Kendra said. "Was Matt suspicious?" She asked again.

"I think it's safe. I left him sleeping soundly on the sofa with a thick blanket. I've covered the cheeks with a little plaster I found near the table. "Drake explained. "With a little healing energy that I transfer to him, tomorrow morning her scratches will heal, leaving no trace."

Kendra went back to her laptop. "My script is a bit more finished. I will make sure you both will go back to your world tomorrow. "

"Thank you, Kendra." Drake bowed slightly.

"No, I'm the one to thank."

***

10.

MEET ME AFTER DARK

And we can not be separated,

good likes and sorrows ...

\--------------------------------------------

Fiona was angry. All affected by her mood. Matt. Rika. Lily. Even her own assistant. How come? The show was a few hours away but the mannequins she requested had not been transported to the theater.

Leading a fashion show event was not the first time in her career record. Since graduating college, Fiona directly wrestled the world of design that she loved. Working together with many fashion houses including Matt's boutiques increasingly catapulted her name in the top designer ranks.

Actually she had explained to Matt change the theme of fashion show this time. In addition to catwalk action by the models, mannequins also participated in the show result of dresses that Fiona designed.

Unfortunately, Matt seemed unfocused as he listened to her explanation. As a result, they became bustled back to the boutique to pick up the mannequin.

Claire, the beautiful mannequin, was taken separately by Matt. Especially, in his car.

"Claire, did you hear me?" Matt glanced over at the passenger seat beside him as he continued to drive.

"Please, do not disappear again from me. Fashion show might take longer time and be crowded, but I'll be near you. If you change into human being at unexpected time, please do not move until the show is over."

Thank goodness the fashion show went lively and fluently. The event received standing applause from the visitors.

Especially Claire. She was the star, beyond models that were obviously real and alive. All eyes looked at her and chuckled in awe. The dress that Fiona had designed specifically for her really fit right in her body. Stunning. With A-line long-chain polyester material sweeping the floor, Claire was a Greek goddess. The addition of pastel brocade details fused like a second skin. V-neck hemisphere is very low and almost backless to the hips are increasingly adding a glamorous sexy impression.

"Look how beautiful she is, where did you get it?" Someone came to Matt after the show was over.

Matt looked suspiciously. He saw the face of an old man with a somewhat stooped but formal dress. Maybe one of the visitors, Matt thought.

The old man smiled. "Do not be a prejudiced, young man. My question is purely out of curiosity."

Matt nodded his head, felt a little guilty for his unreasonable anxiety that was predictable by the old man.

"I just realized that the mannequin has been in the boutique for a long time over the last few months." Matt mumbled as he looked at Claire. "I suppose the origin may be the same as other mannequins because they all arrived almost simultaneously."

"I've noticed that you never got your attention out of the mannequin during the fashion show. Is there something special about it?" the old man asked again.

Matt turned back to see the old man with a determined look. "I'm also watching the show, sir."

The old man chuckled softly. "The look on your eyes when you look at her is undeniable, young man. The eye of love. Do you fall in love with her?"

"You're overreacting," Matt said. How could he have guessed, Matt asked himself.

"You will be surprised to know what the power of love can do. The old man left Matt, let his sentence hang with enigma.

"Matt! I need your help on this side," Fiona exclaimed, waking Matt from his bewildered look at Old Man.

Fiona was cleaning up the dresses of the mannequins and putting them into their boxes before being transported to Matt"s boutique. She had trouble in opening Claire's dress.

"Don't! Leave it that way, "Matt said.

"Then tell me how to bring it into your car? It's the only way, Matt. I don't want something happen to the dress or get dirty on the way. "Fiona objected.

"I still want to linger over it, Fin. I'll take her clothes off. "

Fiona saw Matt curious. "You're not getting on, are you, Matt?"

Matt did not answer. He absorbed himself stroking Claire's clasp that fell to the floor.

"All right." Fiona shrugged her shoulders. "I'll leave you two here."

The theater was gradually quiet. For a few seconds, Matt peered around. After reassuring himself that no one else lived inside the building other than himself and Claire, Matt headed for the light switch beside the main door of the building. She switched off some room lights and left a light on the stage near Claire.

The sound of the shoes that touched the floor sounded echoing in the empty room as Matt walked back to Claire's place.

"So Claire, we'll just wait in silence without doing anything?" Matt asked, breaking the silence between them. He looked at Claire from a few yards away and would keep that distance until he got the answer he wanted.

Love always keeps people in the weakest position in their lives. Matt would do everything he could to get her off the mannequin's body. That kind of attachment really made Matt frustrated with the certainty of his love fate. Will they be united?

"I've never been in love with my life. Once I felt it, I did not expect to experience it with a statue of a mannequin. And that is you. "

Matt waited.

One second.

Two seconds.

Three seconds.

No response.

"I mind, Claire, spending my whole life playing with time just to be able to make love to you. Well, I have to admit that my body is desperate for you. "

One minute.

Still no reply.

"I've turned the light off. The room is dark. Just the two of us. No one else will see. Move around, Claire. Please, be alive. "

One minute.

Two minutes.

No answer.

"Please. Live for me. Forever. "

Silent.

For several hours, Matt stood in front of Claire. His gaze did not escape from Claire's face, still expecting a miracle that Claire would be alive.

Matt felt very tired but he had to endure the waiting. Although the night should pass without sleep. Matt was willing to wait until morning. Because he had memorized the hours at which Claire could usually be found.

" I love you I will not give up on you, Claire, you should know that. I'll keep waiting for you."

Power of love? Matt began to think sarcastically of the opinion he had heard from the old man's mouth. Her love might not be strong enough to bring Claire to life.

***

It sounded like someone called me. I tried to fight my sleep. It's been a while since I'd been sleeping. The last thing I remembered was a beautiful dress that Fiona had in front of me.

The voice grew stronger in my ears.

Was it Matt's voice?

Time and time again he said the words LIVE. Did Matt want me? Oh, how long I waited for that statement from him. I also wanted to live. I wanted to get out of this mannequin body. I wanted to be with Matt forever.

I LOVE YOU.

Matt's tone confirmed the word. Was it true?

***

Dusk had changed to dawn. Matt felt it was worth to wait longer. He walked slowly toward Claire to take her back to the boutique.

He carefully lifted her light body on his arms. Just like the groom was carrying the bride. Matt tried to keep his shoes from stepping on Claire's clothing that fell over the floor.

Then there was something beyond Matt's guess that made Matt's move stop. Claire's eyes blinked. Her skin was getting warm. Body weight was no longer light. Claire's lips covered a promising smile. Claire's hand lifted to touch his face.

For a few minutes, Matt stood transfixed, glancing up at Claire. Tears were welling up in the corner of his eyelids, finally falling on his cheeks.

"Claire, are you real? Tell me if I'm not dreaming now. "

Claire wrapped her arms around his neck. "How long will you hold me?"

Matt laughed with relief. "I don't believe this. You're alive. "

"I love you, Matt."

Matt lowered his face and stole a hot kiss from Claire's longing lips he had longed for. A long and deep kiss. It ended with a small bite on Claire's lower lip.

"Do not. Ever. Leave. Me. Again."

EPILOGUE

Hi. I went back to a new beginning. Everything was not the same as it used to be. The wheel of life turned completely. Now I'm alive.

A few months ago I surrendered myself to destiny as a mannequin who was content only by looking at the man that I liked. A few weeks ago I became acquainted with a loving couple living from a writer's story, whose love so burned with each other that they could finally unite and return to their world. A few days ago I managed to make a man I liked to realize his love for me with all my being, the love that finally made me alive. Love that then made me as a human being.

The earth spins. The seasons change. The sun shines during the day. The moon replaces his duty at night. The solar system is changing. Life changes, not as always as what we want. Not as always as what we expected.

I returned to a point where I felt the beauty of love. As a human being. I was not giving myself away without doing anything. I struggled to determine my own destiny. I tried to make my love feel the truth, according to the end of the story I was hoping for in my life. Now I live near Matt without any limitations. I'm living through my world and the world.

My story ended happily. Happy ending love story. Thank you for listening to my story completely. A story of a love journey between mannequin and human.

***

AUTHOR'S NOTE

I'm just a pathetic romantic who struggle to write about dark and paranormal romance. You can find pieces of my works in my links here:

elenoramamiben.tumblr.com

mamiben/wattpad.com

mamiben/instagram.com

