

DEFINING

GOD

A testament to the World of my God by Damon Shawn Hyde.

Distributed by Smashwords

copyright 2017

Table of contents

Table of Contents

PRELUDE

Dedication of this Book

Special Thanks to Others

In Honor of My Father

CHAPTER 1 [DEFINING GOD]

Searching for God

God Defined

Understanding God

Parts of God

Getting to know God

A Look at the Bible

Questioning God

CHAPTER 2 [BELIEFS]

What are Beliefs

Religions of the World

Good Versus Evil

Deciding on God

Beliefs of Damon Shawn Hyde

Other Beliefs

CHAPTER 3 [RELATIONS]

Relations to All Human/Living souls

My Contract to You Other Human/Living souls

My Gift to Other Human/Living souls

Relations to All Fictional Entities

PRELUDE

" _If you resist reading what you disagree with, how will you ever acquire deeper insights into what you believe? The things most worth reading are precisely those that challenge our convictions. " = Author Unknown_

Haven't we all searched at some time in our lives for an understanding and deeper meaning of God in some manner or other? How and what is the best approach to decipher and decide on a trueness of God? When do you decide to believe and follow such a God? This book is a compilation of where these questions have manifested into my God.

I could have asked the question – 'Does God exist?', but the God I present to you is defined, literally. I cannot deny existence of a God that is, and I cannot denounce a God that is above all other gods. If I can explain and tell you about my God, then you can understand who the God I am defining is. My God cannot be challenged or denied. You can choose to not accept my God, but why choose not to accept what is?

Please do not be offended, for I have no meaning to offend anyone in any way, shape, or form throughout this book. I hope all of you see this in the writings. If I do offend some which is sure to happen, I am truly and deeply sorry. Do not take it personally, I accept your god, it is just I see your god as only a part of, in and from my God.

That being said, I have multiple intentions for the releasing of this book. I will try to make it apparent in the book, but for those of you who like it bluntly, I will state my intentions prior.

" _He who climbs a cliff may die on the cliff, so what? Always a risk-taker by nature, now I became one by intent." = Ruth Park_

I intend for a sharing of my God to all Mankind. I intend to declare my Sovereignty as a part of, in and from God. I intend to make an offering of relations to the world and all its fictional (corporations/countries) and non-fictional inhabitants (you). I intend to make a means for my survival, freedom, happiness, life, liberty, love, and property on this Earth as long as I am here. I intend to write five versions of this book.

So forgive me before I even begin for the selfishness that may be portrayed in many of my intents previously stated and any selfishness that may also be portrayed in the book. I see it as my duty to be able to survive in God's physical realm that I am a part of. This should be apparent, and a duty for all of you too.

I intend to open as many minds as I can with this book. I want you to actually put some thought into how and whom you worship. I hope that you will look at and within yourself, and ask yourself the question. Why do I believe the way I do? Was I taught to believe this since I was a child? Only you know the answers for yourself, though others may help you see these answers. I do intend at least for those of you willing, that you start to question what you believe and why? Maybe even some of you will grow, change, and or expand your beliefs from that. That is up to you.

This book is not intended to be a long read, or to cause commotion in any way. My goal is that you will be able to read this book in one sitting. The basic premise could easily be put down in just a few pages, though I could easily spend my lifetime writing about it too. I see no need to make this book long winded and drawn out. The purpose for this is I do not want to make drones of anyone, especially the weak minded and easily influenced. I intend to encourage your thoughts and have you fill in for yourself your part of, in and from God. You are as important as any other; you may just not know it, or haven't accepted it yet. Of course I expand a little more than just a few pages to hopefully get you thinking on how this book relates to you.

That being said, I have included a section in Chapter 2 where I cover beliefs that I have. Some of these beliefs are based on fact, some on experiences, and many I have taken from others. I am happy to admit that I have no problem in changing my beliefs when they are unquestionably proven to be wrong. These beliefs are beliefs of the parts of, in and from God. I include them for the sole purpose of stating which parts of God I desire to follow and accept due to the rewards I feel that will be given for my spiritual growth, happiness, and eternal survival.

belief: The mental act, condition, or habit of placing trust in a thought not yet fully proven.

I intend to claim the rights of freedom, happiness, life, liberty, love, and property through God in this book. As stated with meaning, I do not want to offend, to cause harm, or destroy any of you in any way, shape, or form. I see you as I see me, both living, breathing, physical and spiritual entities cohabitating in God's realms (we are Man). I do not claim to be above any of you, though I tell you also that none of you are above me.

" _There is always a gap between intention and action." = Paulo Coelho_

To communicate properly one must have an understanding of the meaning of the words being spoken or written. To accomplish this with you, I will define to the best of my ability what I mean when I write certain words. Example...

testament: A talking of and about God.

These are my definitions given to words as best I could come up with to state my meaning. I know there are many definitions of testament, love, greed, spells, etc...., please when I have defined it, know that it is in relation to the meaning I intended. Feel free to put any meaning you want to the words, but it is unlikely you will gain any legitimate or true understanding of what is trying to be related and they will be your words then not mine.

I hope each of you take something from this book that gives you insight, conversation, or even just mild entertainment. That is for all of you to decide on, and not my major intent. Most my intents are stated and this book is a declaration of my God to the world, how it relates to the world, and me living in this world.

declaration: An announcement or proclamation.

I also would like to thank all of you who are reading this book for the time you have given to hear what I have to say. God is with and in you all, even if you haven't realized it yet. May each of us obtain what we seek, and may we all realize that we pay the price for seeking those things that cause infringements upon God.

infringements: violating, encroaching, transgressing, and trespassing upon what God has bestowed, with evil intent for unneeded use.

As for myself and who is Damon Shawn Hyde. Well that is my Christian name given at birth. I have also been called Damon, Damon Hyde, sir, dad, friend, buddy, son, brother and many other names. I am a living soul embodying a flesh, blood, and bone body in this physical realm. I am able to think and move. I was supplanted here as a part of, in and from God and claim all rights as such. I AM.

Disclaimer: I have no intent to offend any. I mean no ill towards any of you, as well as any of the gods also, but I will call it as I see it in this book, thus I will now refrain from any more apologies on this subject for what I write. Also note – I have included many quotes in this book. I do not agree completely with all quotes given within this book and a few I completely disagree with. I found them relevant for what I was trying to state, and I agreed with the context in relation to what I was writing. The main purpose of the quotes was to add words of wisdom, make people think, and to acknowledge those who have given the world thoughts of their own. Please you all need to learn to think for yourselves.

Dedication to this Book

There are none more deserving to this dedication than my son Hunter Barrow Hyde. I do not dedicate this book to him because he is my son, because I wrote it for him, because he was my inspiration, or to any of those other reasons as such. I truly struggled at times, especially towards the end where I just didn't think I could do it. He told me "not many people have been gifted with missions or ideas like you have dad, your one of if not the smartest persons I have ever met. Think about how you can make it work, you'll figure it out somehow. I believe in you dad". I can honestly say if I had not received those words I would have scrapped all my work and given up, and a part of God knows I was at the brink of given up.

It is hard to keep the tears from flowing as I write this. I truly love you Hunter Barrow and I could not have asked for a greater son. You were definitely worth all those years invested in raising you. I thank you for everything, and for what we have always had together.

My son left this writing on my computer. He wrote this well before I started this book (he was only 15 or 16 when he wrote it).

Unedited by Hunter Barrow Hyde:

A man once came up to me and asked me who my god was. I said my god is everything and is inevitably connected and intertwined to everything. He paused for a brief second in what seemed like confusion, "The god in heaven." he said. I smiled; you are referring to the catholic term for god I said with the upmost politeness. Let me try to explain it this way. My god is like an atom, and in this atom there are neutrons, electrons, and protons. Now the catholic religion for example sees only the electron, and what I mean by that is their only seeing a part of that atom. Just like their only seeing a part of my god. You can accept the electron but you cannot cast out or forget about the proton or the neutron either. Like an atom my god not only consists of the electron but of the proton and neutron alike. "So you see my friend we share the same god you just chose to see a smaller part of him". The man looked even more puzzled now. "But humans can split atoms and manipulate them are you saying we can manipulate god?" "No not at all." I said." but we can change our paths can't we? And that's like splitting an atom is it not? Changing gods plan and allowing him to open up a new opportunity for you." He looked at me in the eyes. I smiled once more "but never have we been able to destroy an atom, just like you can't destroy my god for my god is everything. So you see to deny my god's existence you would have to deny your own, for god is everything. Even the catholic god." The man just nodded and walked away.

Special Thanks to Others

There are many who are deserving of special thanks.

First off I would like to thank each and every one of you to include the great men and women who provided quotes for my use.

I would like to thank so many organizations who provided insight for this book to include:

Coast to Coast AM with George Noorey

Colorado State University (Pueblo), though you didn't teach me the truth you showed me how to research.

Any and all religious institutions that were willing to try to teach me their ways with a special thanks to Seventh Day Adventists for teaching me so much, and the Jehovah's Witnesses who tried harder than anybody to teach me their ways.

I would like to thank a few people also, though there were maybe two or three people that offered me help in any way, for the very few of you who did provide something for this book I am deeply grateful and know I appreciate what you have done.

My dad Orem N. Hyde for providing me with the computer that I wrote this book on, as well as all the legal libraries that I was able to do the research with. I thank you very much for that and I think that we both feel better it was done this way. I am not one who wants to be taken care of and not do for myself, and you are not one who wants to take care of someone like that. I hope you forgive my inability to take care of you, but I only did what you told me.

My ex-wife Angela Marinucci, for she knew long ago if she didn't set me free I would have never accomplished such a work as this and of course for giving me a son.

Jay Hoff who helped to truly open my mind all those years ago and the books you provided.

Also; a very special thanks goes out to Hannah, my only friend during the writing of this book.

In Honor of My Father

This is a poem written from by my father during WW2. He had always wanted it published but was unable to due to lack of trying by him and other family members whom he asked. He came to my son, Hunter during a prayer request and asked Hunter to have me put this poem of his in this book. I happily accepted my son's request to honor my father and this incredible poem which I'm sure the world will appreciate, and for the honor it provides me to have such a beautiful poem in this book. – Written without changes as received.

A SAILORS LIBERTY

I woke upon the morning, and you were lying there.

So peaceful were you in your sleep, I could not help but stare.

I thought about the words you said, before you said goodnight.

You were worried about my love, upon mornings light, but the feeling was still there.

There was love within our hearts, there was love within our souls.

There was a feeling of compassion, from our fingers to our toes.

So why not, should I, but love you for what you have given me?

Not only just a night with you, but a feeling of ecstasy.

Before I left you sleeping, I tucked the covers in.

And upon your lips I gave a kiss, with feelings from within.

With one last look, it's you I adore.

I said goodbye and gently closed the door.

A poem by: Orem N. Hyde
CHAPTER ONE

DEFINING

GOD

Searching for God

I had very little interest in finding God until I turned eighteen. I had attended Mormon (dad) and Catholic (mom) churches in Connecticut growing up. I found the Mormon congregation they attended very boring and refused to go. Luckily for me, my parents did not force me to attend this church. I attended the Catholic Church with my mom during special occasions. I liked going to this church for the lighting of candles, food, and wine provided, though I found it had a very creepy feel to it. I only attended these institutions just a handful of times growing up.

I went to a few churches with friends in high school to hang with my friends and to hopefully meet some girls. One time I was listening to a sermon from the Baptist church my friend congregated. I listened to the preacher tell about this god. I started to meditate on this god and floated up to see this god. In my vision this god was male, older, with white hair and clothing. I looked at this god and said "I denounce you. You are too weak of a god".

Less than a year later I was having some troubles in my life and as most folks do, I decided to turn to God. I read the bible every day till I had completed it. I still did not understand so many things, so I decided to start attending churches in the neighborhood. I chose Christian churches since I had read the Old and New Testaments which had given me a background for these institutions. I tried not to spend too much time with one particular church, and as soon as one wanted to baptize me, I decided to move on to another one.

I really got caught up with the Seventh Day Adventists due to their teachings, knowledge, and the humility they showed to one another. I studied their perspective for over a year and even followed their teachings such as avoiding pork. I did not close myself off to the other religions; I just was more impressed with their views than most other religions.

I finally stopped attending their services when I joined the army in 1988, though I attended a few of their services when I was in Germany. I was too busy during most of my military service to attend church regularly. What I did do was to get out the phone book and call random churches in which I would question their beliefs. I would make arrangements to meet those who were willing to meet with me and provide me with information on their religion.

" _Ask and it will be given to you; seek and you will find; and the door will be open to you" = Jesus the Christ_

While in the army I also befriended a Buddhist, who would teach me what he could about this religion. I really liked learning about these eastern religions. I studied many of these eastern religions in college. I was very impressed with Hinduism for their belief in reincarnation and how it appears to be the most scientifically sound of the major religions.

I came to the realization from talking to people who attended the same church that the way they viewed their religion was different from others in their congregation. It appears that everyone no matter what their religion still sees everything just a little different than the others even within the same religion. I like that.

church: Where a human living/soul goes to learn, pray, and congregate about a certain religion or belief.

I attended a Muslim church in Denver as well as dated a Jewish girl I met there. I never got all the information I would have liked about these religions, but I was as impressed with these religions as much, and in some cases more than Christianity. Though I am far from an expert on any one set religion, I can safely say I have given every religion out there that I was aware of and had the opportunity to gain from their knowledge an open ear, an open mind as best I could, and a true desire to learn what they have to say.

" _God made so many different kinds of people. Why would he allow only one way to serve him?" = Martin Buber_

Studying all these religions and beliefs really gave me an insight as to how truly close most religions are. You find that east and west are not truly too far off from one another, but I digress; some of this will be covered later in the book. In fact every religion I have studied I was impressed with how they had certain viewpoints, ideas, and practices that made more sense than any of the other religions. I also found that every religion had certain viewpoints, ideas, and practices that appeared so far off from reality and common sense that I could never fathom how they justified their dogma and hypocrisy.

I started to believe during this time as I still do to this day, and undoubtedly always will that every religion out there has pieces or parts of the truth. Equally as such, every religion also has what appears to be falseness and obvious wrongs in their teachings. No religion is completely right and no religion is completely wrong. This understanding is what led me to learn of a God which can't be denounced and is above all the other gods that have ever existed and will ever exist.

God Defined

" _We are all atheists about most of the gods that societies have ever believed in. Some of us just go one god further." = Richard Dawkins_

God : Every thought that was, is and will ever be conceived by any and all able of thought; Every word and sound ever known or unknown; Every atom and all their components be them known or unknown; every god that was, is, and will ever be acknowledged in every way, shape, or form which is given; Every world line, universe, dimension, dream matrix, heaven, underworld, physical, ethereal, and all possibilities to include beyond the infinite; Every force, energy, power, weakness, knowledge that ever was, is and will be; Every feeling, emotion, desire; Every sense be it taste, sound, smell, touch, sight, to include all senses that are known and unknown; Every tangible and intangible object that is known or unknown; God is the all from the farthest reaches of infinite and comprehension, and is present even in nothing; though God is indefinable his parts are not; God is all parts; God is.

" _They say that God is everywhere, and yet we always think of him as somewhat of a recluse." = Emily Dickenson_

This definition could go on forever, to include everything ever written and it would barely scratch the surface of how completely omnipotent God is. We are part of, in and from God, which means that God dwells within us, is every part of us in all aspects. Any god incapable of such or incapable in any way is just a part of God and not the God. The god may be immense, powerful, beyond our comprehension, even be our creator(s), but unless this god entity fulfills the God definition I have presented, then they are only a god to me, no greater, no less. They are a part of, in and from God and are nothing more than 'I am' a part of, in and from God.

god: A part of, in and from God which has the knowledge of I am.

" _I am he, as you are he, as you are me, and we are all together." = Lennon, McCartney_

Understanding God

" _If we pray to God as a corporeal person, this will prevent us from relinquishing the human doubts and fears which attend such belief, and so we cannot grasp the wonders wrought by infinite, incorporeal love to whom all things are possible." = Mary Baker Eddy_

Have you truly given thought through the deepest recesses of your mind to who God really is? Do we not question even ourselves, what we do, who we are, why are we here? Of course we do and of course we should. Why do people just accept a God or their god without any true understanding that God is not a recluse, only a part of him is reclusive, God is not a corporeal person, only a part of him is.

Are you starting to understand what I am saying? Are you getting the picture I am trying to portray? Can you start to understand that God is the all? That the god is only a part, just as everything is just a part of, in and from God. I myself could never fathom why so many of the god's were always limited in some form, till I searched for God and found that God is all parts. God is not separate as God, but separate in the parts.

That is how God can be negative and positive, good and evil, nothing and everything, definable and indefinable. So I ask you again, have you truly given thought through the deepest recesses of your mind to who God really is? Beyond what you were taught or trained to know, but within and for yourself to truly question gods, yourself, and everything you can. We get to know God by questioning his parts and discerning which parts we want to explore, grow with, and be a part of.

Like it or not, you, I, and all are questioning God every second of the day, you are just unaware that is what you are doing. Take for instance a new neighbor moves next door, you question if the neighbor is a good person, if they are strong, promiscuous, whatever goes through your mind about them. These are questions. You go to buy groceries, questioning price, brand, how much you like eating it, you question almost everything. These are all parts of God and we question them daily. That is how I came to start realizing who God is, questioning the parts, and determining to the best of my abilities how everything fits together. God being all the parts means that putting parts of God together helps to show a greater understanding of God. I do hope you all see that.

Parts of God

" _Men rarely (if ever) managed to dream up a god superior to themselves. Most gods have the manners and morals of a spoiled child." = Robert A. Heinlein_

All the parts of God make up God as a whole. Since the parts are infinite one can only achieve at best becoming a larger part in God. The parts may think they are God, be it a beetle, a dog, an angel, a demon, a god, but they lack that they are not in all, and all is not in them. A deity who battles other deities fails in regards to this, thus these gods are only gods of a part, be it the celestial, the elements, the desire, the act, etc...

" _The whole is more than the sum of its parts." = Aristotle_

All gods are lacking as the whole. They may not lack in their part and be complete in their part, but gods will always lack the ability to be God. Even if an entity which is a part of God found a way to destroy all other parts, so that the entity was the only part, that entity would still be a part of, in and from God, not the God. Another entity tries to bring life to all entities in existence by being a part with them, the entity unites and brings all entities together till all are a part of this entity, that entity would still only be a part of, in and from God, not the God. God is always more; it is his parts that are less.

" _An honest God is the noblest work of Man." = Robert Ingersoll_

God is always honest in the sense that God exists in all, it is the parts that are not honest. When you see a piece of a puzzle it shows us very little, but shows us something. That part of the puzzle pieced with other connecting pieces shows us more. The parts to the puzzle do not show what the puzzle is by themselves, because they are all just parts of the puzzle. These parts often will appear to lie, because they only show us a part of the puzzle. You may think the puzzle is of a statue of a golden cow, but find out the golden cow is just a small part in the puzzle. God being of all parts will always be a never ending puzzle that shows us more, so we grow everlasting in God.

" _I Screamed at God for all the starving children, and then I realized that all the starving children were God screaming at me." = Author Unknown_

Getting to know God

" _When people expect God to plan their lives for them, and protect them, they tend to lose their motivation to guide and control their own lives." = Charles W. Faulkner_

What other way can there be in getting to know God than learning about the parts of, in and from God? Do we not do it every day in every moment? Are not all our experiences in and of God? Do we not experience God when we breath, feel, hear, taste, and or sense? Why do we always think we are a separate entity that is apart from and not a part of, in and from God? Is it because we have what would appear to be separate bodies and thoughts that emanate from within that body? Is it because we have been lied to about who we are, where we derived from, and who God really is? What can we know, learn, accept, or believe?

These are all important questions. Why do we not ask questions, especially about God? There could be infinite answers to these question, I list a few; fear of some of the parts, denial of the parts we don't like, being brainwashed to believe a lie by those who seek power over another's ignorance (control). When you control a Man's religion, you control a Man's will.

" _All religions are the same: Religion is basically guilt, with different holidays." = Cathy LadMan_

When we ask questions, we are on the path to getting the answer. When we achieve the answer we learn more of that part of, in and from God. We get to know God by asking questions. Ever heard the saying, "don't question God"? How moronic is that. How do we know something that can't be questioned? Can we not question it because we may find out that that God is a lie and nothing more than just a god, only a part of, in and from God?

" _Religion is regarded by the common people as true, by the wise as false, and by the rulers as useful." = Seneca the Younger_

Where should we look for God? This should be an obvious answer. God is everywhere and in everything. Any work ever written is a part of God, everywhere we look we see God, everything we touch we feel God, every thought we have we think God, etc., but for some reason we have decided not to be aware of God.

A look at the Bible

" _I do not feel obliged to believe that the same God who has endowed us with sense, reason, and intellect has intended us to forgo their use." = Galileo Galilei_

This section's sole intent and purpose is to give a greater understanding on getting to know and understand God through questioning. No book, not even the Keys of Enoch by J.J. Hurtak has helped me ask as many questions about God, thus getting to know God more than the from just reading the Bible. Thus I ask you to read this section with an open mind; I am not condemning at all.

I have no problem that the Bible is a book that tells of God, gods, history, beliefs, and tales that inspire many of us, and is an important part of, in and from God. I have no problem with what is written regardless if I agree, disagree, see it differently, or just think it makes no sense. It is a part of, in and from God and much can be gained and understood in some aspect of what is written.

Ever heard someone tell you, "The Bible is all I need to know, everything else is useless." How sad for them that they are so limited in their thought that they would think God is only portrayed within the bible and true knowledge about God is only given from the Bible. I contest that if you see God that way your god is limited and only a part of, in and from God. I also contest that you fail to acknowledge everything else that is God, thus you are failing to acknowledge the many parts that are of, in and from God.

contest: Call into question; challenge and dispute.

Were there not many New Testament books written during the same time as the books that are included in the New Testament Bible that were not chosen to be in the Bible? Why do you think that was? Pagan religion was dominant in most of the western world before Christianity. Some of these books not included would not have been easily digested and accepted by the Pagans, so it was better to exclude them so that the masses would accept this new concept of Christianity. Some books also provided man freedoms; those in control couldn't have that.

Some of these testaments were supposedly written by females, some of these testaments talked of reincarnation, some of these testaments had ideas and thoughts that were not congruous with the beliefs of the pagan masses, and thus they were unlikely to be accepted. I have been lucky enough to be able to read many of these scriptures that were excluded from the Bible by a friend who helped introduced me to a more open way of thinking. I can honestly say these books only added to my understanding, gave me a better insight, and helped me see a larger part of, in and from God that I would have otherwise have missed.

" _Your assumptions are your windows on the world. Scrub them off every once in a while, or the light won't come in." = Isaac Asimov_

I love when people tell me from Revelation 22:20 "And if any Man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book", thinking that for some reason this line refers to every book put in the bible. Doesn't it say from the words of the book of this prophecy? How does this statement relate to every book put in the Bible? It doesn't. So why, if you think this way, do you assume it does?

assume: to take for granted without undeniable proof.

People do not question the Bible, which makes no sense to me. Let us say for argument sake that it is true in all aspects and forms. That means Satan, who was originally Lucifer is real. Would not Satan make sure that these words were changed, misconstrued, added, or left out to assure that everyone's view was off from reality? People say God would not allow that. Oh really, then why is the word hell used in place of the garbage dump of Gehenna, the valley of the Son of Hinnom (where they burnt their children as a sacrifice), the bottomless pit, the everlasting fire, or the void? When the Bible says "hell" which forms does it mean, if any? Why were these words changed? You better ask questions people, lest you may be serving a master you're not aware you are serving.

Jesus preached love, peace, and turning the other cheek, then why was Peter carrying a sword? Why did he cut off the ear of the roman soldier? This doesn't sound too peaceful to me. I find it hard to believe Jesus could not have noticed a disciple brandishing a sword around. Oh, but let's just accept it and not question it because it's in the Bible?

" _The most dangerous of all falsehoods is a slightly distorted truth." = Georg Christoph Lichtenberg_

There are many questions and points I do not understand from the New Testament, though I was able to understand them allot better from the reading I did on the books that were not included in the New Testament Bible. The Old Testament really threw some head scratching (What?) stories into the Bible. Here also information can be gained through research and proper access. The Hebrew people would keep writings that would tell of the stories about the stories of the Bible. I assume they were not included in the Old Testament, due to it would have been over 100,000 pages if they had.

Elohim: The many (multiple) gods.

Let's start in the beginning, Genesis 1:1 "In the beginning God created..." The fourth word of the bible for God in Greek is `lhym', which is a plural word for god, originally deriving from the Sumerian word Elohim. What the many gods did all the creations? Yes people as with the New Testament word hell, which came from different words with their own meaning, so were there many titles and names given to God or god. They were given these different terms because their meaning(s) were slightly different. Which meaning or term are you referring to when you read lord, God or god in the Bible?

" _What has been the effect of religious coercion? To make half the world fools, and the other half hypocrites." = Thomas Jefferson_

Genesis 1:27 - "So God created Man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them." Let's jump a bit in the future, Genesis 2:22 "And the rib, which the LORD God had taken from Man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the Man." So why did god make female when Adam was created, but then have to make a woman later due to Adam's loneliness? As I stated earlier there were stories written to explain in greater detail the stories of the Old Testament. If I never questioned this part of Genesis I would have never learned of this part of the story and how she and Adam did not get along. Her name was as it appears from the Midrash was Lilith, research for yourself.

My favorite Old Testament story that I couldn't understand is Genesis 19 of Sodom and Gomorrah. Here we have the story of decadent people living in these towns. Lot is found worthy of surviving their destruction. He stated his daughters had not known man but he tried to gather his son in laws to leave town with him. How were they married but not had a man? Did he choose husbands that night? Lot offered these daughters to a mob at his house to do with as the mob desired to with them. This doesn't seem like a worthy act to do to me, do you? Then living in a cave, his daughters got him drunk with wine to seduce him so that they could preserve the seed of their father. I do not question the act of preserving his seed even though I see that his seed was already intact since he had daughters, but to allow your daughters to get you drunk and have sex with them does not seem a worthy act to me.

" _There is no 'universal moral urge' and not all ethical systems disagree. Polygamy, human sacrifice, infanticide, cannibalism (Eucharist), wife beating, self-mutilation, foot binding, preemptive war, torture of prisoners, circumcision, female genital mutilation, racism, sexism, punitive amputation, castration, and incest are perfectly 'moral' in certain countries. Is god confused?" = Dan Barker_

For those who say "Who are you to decide if Lot is worthy?" Read the paragraph again. I am questioning the worthiness of the acts not the Man? Even if I did, I have questioned enough of gods' worthiness that I will decide worth based upon the acts that are portrayed. I accept that always more knowledge is helpful in assessing any act.

I have not read the stories within this story of Lot to possess a greater understanding. So I am left with these questions, so this was the most worthy of men that this city had? And, if these acts are truly worthy then wouldn't that make most people now saints? Point is without more than just the Bible alone, we really have little understanding. Question the Bible and what it says, don't assume or take anything for granted; you'll be missing the bigger picture of, in and from God. If it doesn't make sense then research, ask others, meditate, but do it open mindedly or what you see will depend on how narrow your view is. To question is not to disbelieve.

" _Whatever your purpose... embrace it completely. Get lost in the clouds every now and then so you never lose sight of God's wonder." = Paul Vitale_

Questioning God

" _Only those who question God can truly understand who they are." = Damon Shawn Hyde_

Why do few people question why god was so petty, evil, childish, selfish, and unforgiving in the Old Testament, then he became more loving, warm, and kind hearted in the New Testament? Whole tribes of people were destroyed including men, woman, and children because some tribes were considered abominations in the Old Testament. If this god didn't create these abominations where did they come from? Why is this god so weak? If this god created these abominations just to destroy them violently at the hands of the so called chosen ones, then why? Was there no hope for these abominations in any way? Does god create and then not give any hope for the creation?

Why did god decide that all the heathen, goyim and pagans where worthy once Jesus came along? Did god decide to finally grow up and act mature? Were there different gods giving insight and instruction to us throughout the Bible? Would that account for the evil destroyer god who is petty in most manners compared to the god who loves us all and not just the Hebrew people? The use of the word Elohim states that we were created by the many gods, how many have been ruling over us? Why has god changed from being the god of only the chosen people to a god to the rest of the people?

In the Ten Commandments Exodus 20:3 god says "Thou shall have no other gods before me." Well that tells me there are obviously other gods. What about after you god, shall we have other gods after you? In Exodus 20:5 god claims to be a jealous god. What does god have to be jealous about?

" _Jealousy contains more of self-love than of love." = Francois de La Rochefoucauld_

Why does it appear that god is against us in the Old Testament and does not want Man to have imagination and be as one? Genesis 11:6 "And the LORD said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do." Genesis 11:7 "Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech."

Yes heaven forbid that nothing be restrained from what we imagine to do. What type of god would do this? Who are us (Elohim)? Oh Mankind if only we were to realize who the true enemy is. Not Man. It would appear to me it could be any who would want to keep Man from becoming one, together, as a part of, in and from God. It is Man's destiny to have nothing restrained from us that we imagine to do. Why would any Man worship, follow or obey such a god that confounds and restrains us, limiting our part of, in and from God?

How many of you try to justify everything that the bible says even though you don't even understand it yourself? How many of you say "god has his reasons, it's not for us to know"? Chairman Mao had his reasons for killing 80 million people too. Everyone and everything has their reasons, it does not mean I have to accept that reason as justifiable. It is for us to know. I do not want to worship a god who wants to hold me down, keep me ignorant, and have me destroy anyone or anything outside of self preservation.

This (these) god(s) do exist, that I'm not doubting. I will even admit that YHVH, Jehovah, Allah, Yahweh, or any other name you want to give this (or as I see it as these) entities are probably my creator, since I am human. This god is flawed or has been portrayed as such, maybe it was through Satan, jealousy, to control, I do not know. I only know that this may be my god, but he is not my God. This (these) god(s) are only a part of, in and from my God. Though they may be my creator, they are not above me as God. They know that, I know that, and me being a part of, in and from God is my proof to that.

" _Be confidently assured that any 'gods' that we build will always have veracious appetites, and sooner or later they will gorge themselves on that which built them." = Craig D. Lounsbrough_

All parts of, in and from God appear flawed, because it takes the whole of everything of God to be complete. The puzzle is not complete until you have every piece intact. If pieces of the puzzle are missing then the puzzle is flawed. I have nothing against any of the gods in and of God, I have no problem with choosing to be a part of and following these larger parts in and of God, but I will not be fooled by them to make me think they are the God. I will not accept them as God when they are not the whole of the parts of, in and from God. I will not worship them as God, though I will learn from, honor, and accept if they are of the part of God that shows me how to spiritually progress my soul to larger parts of, in and from God. If God is manifested in all, then why manifest in one set being? That is ludicrous and any who claim such is only a god. Why do you need to be worshipped so bad there god?

I want you all to think for yourself people. I guess if you think that not questioning anything is the best way to go, I will accept that you thought that for yourself, if that is truly how you think. God lets us all think for ourselves which is why we each have our own separate minds. Alone we only have a part of, in and from the puzzles of God, but together with our thoughts we have a much larger part. Thus I accept every one of your god(s). That god is definitely a part of, in and from my God and I acknowledge that. I am grateful for all your beliefs, because without your thoughts, ideas, revelations, and inspirations I would definitely be much more limited in my understanding of God.

If you do not question what you do not understand then the chance that you will be lied to becomes far greater than if you remain silent. Yes, answers to questions often come in the form of lies, but it becomes easier to spot the lies then if you were not to question them at all. Any entity that claims they are God does not make them God. God is the whole and contains all, if you fail in any part you are just that a part; a god and nothing more. Why do you lie to us god?

" _The great masses of the people will more easily fall victim to a big lie than to a small one." = Adolph Hitler_
CHAPTER TWO

BELIEFS

What are Beliefs

" _Beliefs are like assholes, everyone has them and they all stink." = Unknown_

Forgive the vulgarity; I always thought that was a funny saying. We do all have our own beliefs be it on the best musician, the toughest sport, the deadliest weapon, etc... Most people it seems try to base their decisions on fact; at least I hope they include facts as a variable in their beliefs. This musician plays ninety instruments, more people die in this sport, this weapon could destroy the Earth, etc...

beliefs: an opinion or conviction that one thinks is true.

You can have a belief based on no fact given. I'm sure you've heard somebody say "Because I believe it." You ask them why they believe that and they say "Because I do." How many of you believe in something, but you have no real reason of fact or argument for that belief? I'm sure most of us do on certain subjects. Basing a belief with no understanding doesn't mean that the belief is not true, but it probably would increase the chances of its falsity.

So many times and I cannot stress this enough, so many times we have beliefs and will argue them to our dying breath; all the while we were both right.

Example - Two men are arguing over how to cross a river. One friend has the belief that to cross the river they should shoot a grappling hook across till it appears caught and pull themselves over. The other friend acknowledges it may work, but doesn't like that belief because if the hook becomes unattached they could both drown. His belief is to get a large tree that has fallen nearby put it in the water and paddle it across. The first friend doesn't like this belief because they would end up too far down river though he acknowledges it's safer.

Two beliefs of how to get across the river, both will probably work, but both have their draw backs. Luckily for the two men a passerby came along having overheard their conversation and he tells them "Well I believe if you shoot that grappling hook across the river and get it fairly secure, then you tie this end of the rope to that tree. You can now float with this tree. It will be held by the rope, so you do not have to worry about paddling unless the hook comes out, and you will only be as far downriver as the river is wide." Beliefs are like that, they sometimes work better together than by themselves.

" _If we all didn't have assholes, we'd all be full of shit." = Damon Shawn Hyde_

Beliefs on the same subjects can also be completely contradicting.

Example – A Man takes a drink of some whisky, and believes that it is the worst tasting liquid he has ever had. A second Man drinks the same whisky but believes it is the best tasting liquid he has ever had. Ever have a slice of pizza and believe that it tastes so much better than it ever did before, even though it is the same exact pizza made the same exact way? I know you stoners have. Maybe you were just more hungry than usual, or you quit smoking a month ago, or even some other unaccounted variable. Obviously some beliefs are based on nothing more than our own personal taste, likes, desires, and even mood.

Beliefs change too. Thank God for that. Do you all believe the same as you did when you were 5, 10, 15, 20, 35, 65, or 95? As we all start seeing, realizing, living, and experiencing more of the parts of, in and from God we tend to change our beliefs to adjust. Some of you get caught up in one or more of the parts that gives a bitter view and/or beliefs that are not conducive to happiness, others see the parts that bring contentedness and/or believe that they should stay happy throughout all the parts, and others just believe in the experience itself. You people get to choose. Our choices are based on our beliefs. What do you choose to believe?

" _I believe that............." = every one of us_

I want to talk of beliefs regarding God and or gods. I mentioned in the Prelude that even those who attend the same church do not see everything the exact same as everyone else. I contend that every one of us has our own distinct belief system on God. Two people having the same exact belief on everything that is in existence, is not in existence, on all subjects, and to believe every thought the same as the other, well I'm not saying it isn't possible, but it's highly unlikely and definitely mind blowing. I believe even in a parallel universe you yourself would probably have a different belief sometime or other than the beliefs you have right now.

Even you atheists who believe in nothing, you still believe in a part of, in and from God. Remember the definition. So I accept your beliefs as much as any other belief out there, it is all a part of, in and from God. Do you out there who are atheist think that all your beliefs are completely in sync with other atheists? You must have beliefs of some form be it evolution, genetic manipulation, or something. Do you really think that you think totally the same about everything, or do you have your own set distinct beliefs on atheism?

atheist: a person who denies or disbelieves the existence of a God or gods.

Religions of the World

" _This is my simple religion. There is no need for temples; no need for complicated philosophy. Our own brain, our own heart is our temple; the philosophy is kindness." = Dalai Lama_

Imagine a world where Jesus, Mohammad, Siddhartha Guatama, Gandhi, Lao Tse, Martin Luther, and many other great men and woman of faith were born in the same time. Imagine now that they all grew up in the same place and knew each other. Do you think they would argue and fight? Hate each other? Do you think that they would be happy to talk about ideas, thoughts and concepts to each other? Could you just imagine the growth and the understanding of the parts of, in and from God? We'd probably all have created a real kicking religion from that. God is not a religion, only a part of God is religion. All of God is not told of in a book, only a part of God is told about in a book. God is.

I do not doubt any religion. I accept that you all are parts of, in and from God. If your religion is so proud that you must think only yours is right, that is your faith. Let us say for arguments sake that you are right in all aspects of what your prophet claimed, and how you interpret those beliefs, and of god. Would you not still fail your god for being so proud to be above the rest and right? If you didn't fail your god because it is good to be prideful above all others, then shame on us for letting ourselves choose that god to lead us. More importantly wouldn't your god have failed you, by only giving you and your prophet the truth, while allowing all others to be wrong?

I am always willing to learn any faith and religion. I could never choose or validate for myself one over any other. When I first did some research for the book, I had small basics on the religions Taoism, Christianity, Pagan, Atheism, Science, Islam, Buddhist, Judaism, Confucianism, and Hindu. When I read each one and their core beliefs, values, or concepts, I thought to myself "that's me".

I hope that the religions of the world teach me their ideas and beliefs. I know that many would teach, because they want to make people better, have you believe like they do, and/or save people. I always like to better myself and though I am already saved, I would learn many of the parts of, in and from God to grow within. I will discover new truths and I will incorporate these into the parts of, in and from God for a greater comprehension of God. Know that I cannot be converted into any one religion as long as more than one religion exists, because they are all parts of, in and from God.

I spent allot of time researching and studying about these following religions I will be addressing. I took notes and had them ready to write about their beliefs, values, and history since this is the chapter on beliefs. As I started writing, it just came out differently than how I had planned, as with most parts of this book. I learned from reading about these religions, but not enough to give these religions the credit they deserve through the telling of their religious beliefs for themselves. Who am I to tell the world what your religious beliefs are? So I will tell you instead how I see them in regards to me.

" _The ink of the scholar is more holy than the blood of a martyr" = Muhammad the Prophet - Quran_

I would like to address first, one of the two religions that I have most aggrieved.

To those of Islam: How have I aggrieved you? The way that I have aggrieved you and that I am sorry for is as I have been brainwashed to have fear of you. I do not want to believe that you are to be feared. I believe that you are my brother as is all Man. I have overcome the brainwashing as best I can and ask that you do not condemn me for my beliefs and how I view God and gods.

I have also aggrieved you in that I have held off learning of Islam and its teachings for these reasons as well as time restraints. I do not know enough about Islam but I want to learn? Case in point I was told that one should not write Muhammad in quotes. Is that brainwashing or true? Another case in point I feared I may be labeled a terrorist. I terrorize no one ever. I do not believe the nations of Islam are terrorists.

As stated so often, I do not want to offend anyone, which is never my intention. I would love to be taught the teachings of Islam probably more than any religion. I hope one day I meet someone or a group who is willing to teach me, and forgive me for seeing everything as a part of, in and from God.

I accept the "Five pillars of Islam" may be the way to salvation, I doubt it not. I accept that all Muhammad states and all that Allah is may be the complete truth; I doubt it not, though I will always view it as a part of, in and from God. I accept that Islam may be the best path we as humans could choose.

" _One learned Man is harder on the devil than a thousand ignorant worshippers" = Muhammad the Prophet - Quran_

To those of Science: Many of you may not see science as a religion, but I do and I'm not the only one. I am grateful for all the understanding you have provided me with the parts of, in and from God. In many ways I admire your religion more than any of the others in that you find truths or what at least appears to be the truth constantly.

" _Mathematics is the language in which God wrote the universe" = Galileo Galilei_

You are always seeking and questioning the parts of, in and from God. Thus your religion seldom stays stagnant and you reveal more of the puzzle pieces daily. Science may be the complete truth, I doubt it not, though I will always view it as a part of, in and from God. I accept science may be the best path we as humans could choose.

For the most part, you who worship science, share your knowledge with the rest of us which again I am grateful. All I can ask of you is to understand that understanding the parts of, in and from God can destroy us or grant us Paradise. Love Mankind enough to help us achieve paradise.

" _It is better to conquer yourself than to win a thousand battles. Then the victory is yours. It cannot be taken from you, not by angels or demons, heaven or hell" = Siddhartha Guatama – The Buddha._

To those of Buddhism: This is a religion that I was unfortunately not given enough time to learn about. As I stated, I had a Buddhist friend, and he would study and teach me, but the time was not enough to get a great understanding of the deeper concepts. I know I have incorporated much of his teachings to my beliefs in the parts of, in and from God.

I accept that all the Buddha states may be the complete truth, I doubt it not. I accept the four noble truths, and though some claim Buddhism provides no God, I see these four noble truths as vital to assuring we humans do not decide to follow a god detrimental to Mankind and this helps me to view the parts of, in and from God that I want to be a part of, and also a good method to follow. I accept the path of the Buddha may be the best path we as humans could choose.

I feel I would miss out on a huge understanding of the parts of, in and from God if I were to not find a friend again willing to teach me more. I especially need that because I found it a hard religion to understand, or maybe my friend didn't understand it well enough himself.

" _A Man in this world without learning is a beast of the field" = Hindu proverb._

To those of Hinduism: I view you as the Mother of all religions. The reason I call you this is it appears most religions having some link back to you as well as you having some link back to them in the creation of Hinduism.

I have been very unfortunate in that I have never had a Hindu friend. I was only taught about Hinduism for a month or so in college. I can honestly say that no religion made as much sense and sunk in as fast as what I learned of Hinduism at that point in my life. As with all the other religions I really hope I have a Hindu friend one day that could help me to learn more.

I accept that all Hinduism teaches may be the complete truth, I doubt it not. I accept the idea and concept of Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva are parts of, in and from God, and I am happy that your religion understands that all things are God. I accept reincarnation, and karma as a vital belief in my life as a part of, in and from God.

I confess to failing to understanding and accepting the caste system, since I believe anything that limits our choices and possibilities only increases the chances of holding us back. I believe where you end up would be karma's choice on placing you where you need to be; why we would have to create a limitation on ourselves when it would not be needed, I do not comprehend. I confess also I could be wrong though and acknowledge that Hinduism may be the best path we as humans could choose.

" _As you teach, you learn" = Jewish proverb_

To those of Judaism: I view you as the Father of all religions. I read a book by this Rabbi once and upon reading this book I realized how little understanding I have of this faith. I loved what the Rabbi talked about, and was blown away by his concepts (he claimed that Earth's location in the Milky Way was so many light years in the (hell) location), though it was not the Judaism I read about or saw in the Old Testament. I was not able to relocate this book to give him credit; it was over a decade ago that I read his book. I am grateful that Jesus and Muhammad came from your line.

"As he thinks in his heart, so he is" = Jewish proverb

I accept that YHVH may be above all other gods, I doubt it not. I accept that when your messiah will come that he may be all that is expected and bring forth the truth, I doubt it not, though I will always view YHVH and your coming messiah as a part of, in and from God, and I accept that they may be the greatest of all the parts of, in and from God. I accept Judaism may be the best path we as humans could choose.

To those of Christianity: I view most of you as I view myself, a Christian. Though I did not believe (though I did not doubt it) Jesus to be the Christ till 2010, when he touches your heart with understanding it may be impossible not to believe.

Christ: the one who is the greatest of all the parts of, in and from God.

I do not understand how some Christians justify war, killing, guilt pandering, and the Crusades against our brothers. I confess I do not believe that was ever Jesus' intent. I confess I could be wrong, but highly doubt it since he touched me with understanding in the heart. I also do not understand why Christians allow the warping of Jesus through Christmas, but I accept the Christmas holidays in honor of the Pagans and I am grateful for all the solstices especially the winter solstice.

I acknowledge Jesus the Christ as my savior (though he didn't die for my sins) and advocate. I accept that all that Jesus states may be the complete truth, I doubt it not, though I will always view Jesus as a part of, in and from God and that is a part I choose to want to be a part of, and I accept that Christianity may be the best path we as humans could choose.

" _A journey of a thousand miles must begin with a simple step" = Lao Tse_

To those of all other religions: Taoism: I am grateful for the contributions you have given to the parts of, in and from God such as acupuncture, herbalists, fengshui, and others. To all the religions and gods of Mythical religions, Pagan religions, Confucianism, and any and all in existence, though I will always view these religions as a part of, in and from God, I accept that your beliefs and religion may be the best path we as humans could choose.

To those I call Indius: The last I wish to address whom I have aggrieved greatly. To the Native American I shed a tear for you. I originally had intended to address you in the Declaration of Peace Affidavit (in extended version of the books). Forgive me for the transgressions brought upon you by the united States of America (Republic) and the heartache we have caused you. I ask for your forgiveness and that you look upon me in peace, as I desire peace with all Native to the land known as America.

Indius: people of God.

I call you Indius because that was the original term given to you by Christopher Columbus in his writings. When he first met the natives of the land they checked him for stigmata. Indius means people of God. I hope that when everything goes downhill to the point we don't know where to turn, that the Hopi or other Native Americans will take me in and accept me as a brother.

Indians: term used for native people of the two American continents that derived from the volumes "A History of the Life and Voyages of Christopher Columbus", a fiction book written by Washington Irving in 1828.

I took North American Indians class for a year in college and I realized that many of your religious beliefs from different tribes vary as much as any in the world, even from those among other American tribes. As a whole I accept that your beliefs and religions may be the truth and teach us much in the parts of, in and from God. I accept that your beliefs and religions may be the best path we as humans could choose.

For those of you who did not know there were a series of fiction books called "The Life and Voyages of Christopher Columbus" written by the famous American novelist Washington Irving, in the 18th century. Many of the fictional stories told in these books are what we are taught as truths in our elementary educational system. I'm surprised we didn't decide to make the Ichabod Crane our seventh president. Sadly the more research I do the more I find that most of what we are taught in our educational system is full of lies, or at least has become much distorted truths.

As I stated, I accept all religions and beliefs since they come from the parts of, in and from God. They are vital parts that reveal more of God than if we did not open ourselves to their teachings. I may not believe in your beliefs as truths, but I accept that they may be the truth. I thank every one of these religions and all their beliefs for the growth you have given me and the world.

Good versus Evil

" _A religion can no more afford to degrade its Devil than to degrade its God." = Havelock Ellis_

This is a subject that many of us struggle with. Some people believe most people are good; it is just the circumstances of life that make us do bad things. There are many others that believe most people are bad, but do good deeds every so often to make them feel better about their actions. What is good and what is evil?

good: doing for the betterment of others; striving to do what is morally right through their actions.

evil: doing for the disregard of others; having no concern for morals or suffering caused by their actions.

Do you do for the betterment of others? Are you selfish and care only for your own benefit at the cost of others? I believe most people fall into a bell curve. They are a mixture of good and evil. A few of you out there show kindness to all, have no problem putting everyone else above themselves, and dedicate their lives to helping others. There are also the other extreme of people who get a thrill of screwing everyone they can over, or they like killing.

Good and evil are just parts of, in and from God, but they are as all parts, vitally important. What are the consequences of your choices of being good or evil? What are your beliefs that determine if you choose to be good or evil? I implore you to ask yourselves these questions. Why must you do good or evil acts? Do your beliefs have validity for the backing of your actions?

" _No matter how hard Evil tries, it can never quite match up to the power of Good, because Evil is ultimately self-destructive. Evil may set out to corrupt others, but in the process corrupts itself." = John Connolly_

It appears in this physical world we live in that it benefits one most to appear good to the masses, but act evil through deception. There should be little doubt that you gain material possessions and wealth for yourself in this physical world by doing evil. The secret thief who talks all sweet to those he deceives through charismatic lies, all the while he is stealing your wallet while you praise him.

You have got to love politicians; they are the perfect example of appearing good and being deceptively evil. They claim to have come from nothing helping the poor throughout their lives, and now they will help you. Ever ask yourself people, how they got eight million dollars from helping the poor while coming from nothing, and by the time they are done helping you they have amassed two hundred million dollars for themselves? Who are they helping again?

What happens when we are just evil, and do not even have the sense or are not charismatic enough to appear good? Seems to me unless you are extremely lucky or were born into a family with influential power, an evil person like this will usually end up in jail or dead. Do you think that if there were no repercussions for actions that we would be even more evil than we are today? Luckily I haven't met anyone completely evil and I hope I never do.

" _You don't need Satan to explain the evil in the world. He is not the creator of the universe" = Bangambiki Habyarimana_

I always wondered how it is possible to survive in this world being exceptionally good. I believe anyone portraying the acts of being only good would probably end up homeless or an indentured servant to someone trying to exploit their kindness. I wouldn't be surprised if many of the homeless were just not evil enough to make it in this society, or too proud to sell out their services to evil people. They may have had a hard time ever putting themselves first and lost everything to those with less scruples. I really can't think of anyone that is good in everything they do, putting everyone else's regards above their own, except maybe Jesus. I think I would feel great pity for a person who was that good in our society. Look what became of Jesus; tried and executed for sedition, yes people Jesus would have been one a multiple felon according to our laws even to this day.

I'd like you all now to play a little exercise of belief with me. We will take the extremes of the bell curve I created for being good and evil and think of what you believe the world would be like if only that sort of people existed.

First everyone is evil and only out to benefit themselves with no regard to others. What do you believe the world would be like? If the world was full of only these people then the ability of deception would probably no longer exist, so you really wouldn't ever trust anybody. Call me limited in thought but no matter how I try to envision it, all I see is destruction.

destruction: the end of an existence; death

Now everyone is good and only out for the betterment of others. What do you believe the world would be like? If the world was full of only these people then the fear that people would try to take advantage of you would probably no longer exist, so you would trust everybody. Call me limited in thought but no matter how I try to envision it, all I see is paradise.

paradise: life in an ideal state; utopia

Do you believe that we as a people could actually be that good? Do you believe we are doomed to be that evil? Do you believe we will always be in between? Do you believe we have the ability to choose how we want this world to be?

" _But who prays for Satan? Who, in eighteen centuries, has had the common humanity to pray for the one sinner that needed it most?" = Mark Twain_

Have any of you ever prayed for Satan? How about to Satan? Why was Satan originally Lucifer, the bringer of light, the morning star Venus, most beautiful of angels, then he became some hideous goat Man (Pan)? Lucifer wasn't banned from heaven in the Old Testament, he would go to heaven and talk to god about testing good people like Job.

People always say stuff like, that's the devil's music. I say well that only gives kudos to Lucifer then, if Lucifer is Satan the devil. Yes, I admit it has hypnotic beats that puts people into a trance, but we put ourselves in hypnotic trances daily. It is when our conscious mind lets the unconscious mind take over certain functions which are usually repetitive in nature, or to protect us in certain situations. That is where the 10 minutes went when you were driving and you wondered where the time went. Did the devil take over your mind?

How about Lucifer saying you can learn from eating the fruit from the tree? Yes knowledge was gained. Why should we be kept from learning? Did that god who wouldn't let us eat want us to be ignorant little pets? Sorry, but kudos to Lucifer again if he did not want to keep information from us. Where is the evil in Lucifer? Is it evil to test people? Is it evil to deal with people granting them their desires and wishes? Is it evil to acknowledge your beauty and worth as a part of, in and from God? Is it evil to grant knowledge to people? I don't see it. Lucifer is as far from Satan in his actions from the Old Testament to the New Testament, as the god of the Old Testament was to the god of the New Testament. Do you believe there was not a drastic change in the major deities of the Old and New Testament?

" _All evil and good is petty before Nature. Personally, we take comfort from this, that there is a universe to admire that cannot be twisted to villainy or good, but which simply is." = Vernor Vinge_

Now Satan I have seen much deception in, but it seems to me he came from the New Testament not the old. Did Lucifer change? Is Satan just a part of Lucifer? These are definitely parts of, in and from God that are too confusing and don't make sense, so as all people do when something doesn't make sense we create a belief system to try to make sense of it all.

Is Satan not in control of this Earth? How could he offer Jesus the whole world if it was not his to give? Do you think Satan hasn't put most of the people in charge of this Earth if it is not his to give? Do you think that doesn't include the leaders of the religions and churches? Here's a hint, find out who originally funded and who funds religions and churches to this day. How many Christian religions aren't or weren't originally funded by Satanists? Oh no let's just believe whatever they tell us and definitely have lots of fear and guilt thrown at us while we are at it. Why question anything, the lie and the fear are so cozy and warm?

Deciding on God

Traveler: "God has been mighty good to your fields, Mr. Farmer."

Farmer: "You should have seen how he treated them when I wasn't around." = Author Unknown

There are so many parts of, in and from God, infinite in all forms. What do you choose for yourself? What direction will and do you choose? What are your beliefs that you make these decisions about god(s), God, and self? Do you choose to portray evil, good, or a combination of both? Do you base these decisions on the physical world or the spiritual world? Do your god(s), God, and self have room to grow, expand, and thrive in the many parts of, in and from God, or are you satisfied with a rigid limited view of a weak god?

I hope every one of you truly looks deep within yourselves and asks these questions and many more to determine for yourselves your understanding of God. Which messiah(s) if any do you choose? Why do you choose a certain messiah over another? Which religion do you feel will offer the most understanding of the parts of, in and from God for you?

messiah: an expected deliverer of some cause or message relating to God or god(s).

The parts of, in and from God will always lead down a certain path for us. It is in our beliefs that truly make up who we are and how we understand god(s), God, and self. To decide on your god(s), God, and self, we can have an understanding of the parts of, in and from God and choose the parts that work for us when we need. Some of the parts may appear contradictory. They don't fit into the piece of the puzzle of that part of, in and from God that you choose to work in. You cannot choose to be a killer, rapist, and evil beyond all control and also choose to dedicate your life to helping others or of quickly progressing ones' soul.

You cannot be evil and expect there to be no retribution for your actions, just as you cannot be good to everyone and not expect to be taken advantage of by some. Regardless of these facts, to act upon your beliefs shows true courage and willpower of self.

If a god presents himself to us and claims to be all knowing and is our creator and is the God above all gods? Will you just accept this without question, because that god has more power than you have ever witnessed? Will you allow this god to enslave and kill those you know to be innocent because the god claims they are abominations? Will you follow this god if this god portrays evil? We choose the god we follow in our beliefs. Shouldn't we be exceedingly critical of this god? I hope we don't follow blindly, and be deceived. We'll see....

Beliefs of Damon Shawn Hyde

" _The wisest men follow their own direction." = Euripedes_

This section will state my beliefs in the parts of, in and from God that I choose to believe in for myself, be it for power, salvation, knowledge, etc..., and the reasoning for why I choose to believe the way I do. My God which is above all others and includes all the parts contained in and of; this has already been stated so I will stick to only the parts for this section.

Since I was fairly young my body would vibrate. How do I explain this? It would feel like my soul inside would be pushed and molded inside my body till it left the body. What I call a sound and feeling of vwoosh, vwoosh. I had no control over this in the early years. It frightened me so much I would go and sleep on the floor in my parents' room. It was not till a decade later after research and experiencing this phenomenon that I understood that I was having an out of body experience (OBE).

I have had many OBEs and gained much knowledge from them. Through books and meditation I learned what they were about, how to help encourage them to happen, and to be in control during them. The fear soon left me since I found no entity could harm me in this spiritual state. I believe originally and naturally I had these OBEs as a way to grow and enrich my spiritual being.

I figured and figured right that since I had these vwoosh feelings that perhaps my son would too. When I figured he was old enough to talk about this and have experienced OBEs (around 10), I asked him if he ever felt the vwoosh. He said he had. I explained all I knew about this phenomenon and instructed him of his power in this state. It took him years of experiencing and working with the methods till he no longer feared OBEs. I have never met anyone who has as much ability to experience OBEs as my son. I attribute that to the training, teaching and experiencing of these OBE's at an early age.

I believe that what I or anyone experiences during an OBE is as real as anything that we experience in our bodies. Do we not experience the sense of being in our body, and sense all the objects and limitations in our bodies? It is the same in an OBE in that one experiences thoughts, senses, and objects, the main difference is perception and limitation is beyond what we have in the physical realm. Things are different.

I would experiment and give my son assignments with OBEs. I would say what to do without giving knowledge of my prior experiences on some of my OBE experiences. I told him to go visit the void. I told him yes, I had been there and he had already been trained on how to return to his body, but told him nothing of what it was I had visited or experienced. He visited it a few times and saw, felt, and experienced everything I did, but in a longer experience. Other experiments as well showed that indeed the places I sent him looked the same even though I would not tell him what they looked like to me. Thus I believe these places such as the void, the Akashik records, and others do exist on the spiritual realm.

I will get back to OBEs later, but would like to talk of struggles I have had with understanding and knowing gods that we are told about existing. I started to learn and came to a crude understanding of God in about 1997. God would show me many paths and the outcomes of these paths. The writing of this book was the only path God gave me in which I was not shown the outcome. That is why I decided on this path. I believe that we being as a god get to choose our own path. Yes, I confess it is possible and perhaps maybe even likely that it was a god who talked to me and showed me this path (since talking and showing are but parts of God), nonetheless this part definitely understood who God is.

anomaly: One that is difficult to classify, know, and understand; different than others.

I always wanted to know Jesus but he was just an anomaly to me. I searched hard to find something wrong with him; in fact I wanted very badly to find something wrong with him. I found many faults in his disciples, the writings regarding him, and those around him. I, as I should, questioned some of his actions and motives but I just couldn't as hard as I tried find fault in him. He would always ignore me when I would try to call him so I always just prayed and talked to God.

I never gave up though, and now realize that the reason he ignored me was due to the reasons that I was calling him for. I may do a little jumping in my writing due to it took a few experiences for me to know Jesus, I will do the best I can and hope you can follow along.

I stopped having OBEs about five or six years ago, by choice, I just didn't have the desire to experience them anymore; I have no reasoning for this. I occasionally have OBEs, but not from my attempting to have them. I still would instruct my son though and give him assignments that I felt would help him grow and learn. A few years ago when my son was fifteen, I gave him the assignment of visiting gods he had not visited and who had not visited him yet. I told him to visit Jesus. My son does not follow Jesus as his savior (yet), but he told me that he had never felt such power as when he visited Jesus in an OBE. He admitted to me that no being he ever met in dreams or OBEs were above or had as much power as Jesus.

About this same time I had also met a preacher. We hit it off really well personality wise, and I read everything wrong in the reason for our meeting. I figured it may be something of a more romantic nature because of the connection. I prayed for understanding and as I occasionally did back then I would ask Jesus. He had never really answered me like God would before this instance. As soon as I prayed or asked Jesus I was hit in my heart with such an immense feeling of Love and Understanding.

Now I must explain this on a grander level. We all feel in our heart, and maybe understand to a point also, but I think that may be an understanding from our brain. Our heart contains approximately 40,000 brain cells which helps create our bodies since the heart is the first organ formed. One part of the understanding I had with this feeling was a thought in my heart that I was introduced to her so she could edit this book. I did not know I could have a thought in my heart and it was like no other experience before. I told her this and told her to pray to Jesus, but she to the day of this writing has not responded.

Shortly after this experience I was given a most intense dream. It was long and I won't go into the details of it all. It was a dream where I understood what was being told to me as soon as I awoke. The main part of the dream that filled my soul with joy was I had something in my lap, I opened my hands and it was a dove. This dove was acting like a dog who was loving (excuse the pun) the hell out of me. The dove rubbed his head against me, cooing, and filling me with all its love. I realized upon awakening that I could cast away demons as long as I believed in Jesus and myself. I do not like doing this, but sometimes I realize that it is called for.

Thus for all the reasons previously stated I believe in Jesus the Christ. I believe he is my savior and advocate. I do not believe in the mythical Jesus that has been distorted and manipulated so that he would be accepted by the pagans, or used to control people. I know Jesus was born on or around September 30th, and or more likely April 1st. He was definitely not born on the winter solstice. I believe in the Jesus who has touched me. I believe in the Jesus who gave me thought in my heart which was pure and unadulterated. I believe in the Jesus who is above all others in the spiritual realm which has been experienced in OBEs.

" _He was born when the heathen mythology had still some fashion and repute in the world, and that mythology had prepared the people for the belief of such a story. Almost all the extraordinary men that lived under the heathen mythology were reputed to be the sons of some of their gods." = Thomas Paine_

I believe in Gabriel since I have experienced him in the form of Metatron. He allowed me to travel via the Merkabah while I was having out of body experiences. I asked Gabriel once to let me see him; it was more than I can explain. I believe this is an immense being that I looked upon as the connective tissue, internet, and a part of, in and from God whose part seemed so massive I could not completely fathom it and though the understanding was there, it appeared almost limitless in its overwhelming aspect and size.

I believe Satan rules this world. If you don't believe this just witness from photographs of all the leaders of the world and how they use Enochian hand symbols using Satan's sign to show who they give allegiance to. Look into the history (follow the money, look objectively) at the religious leaders of this world. Do they show you the myth of Jesus or religions keeping you from knowing the true power you wield as a part of, in and from God? Mostly do they put themselves above you while pretending to care about you?

" _In every country and every age, the priest had been hostile to Liberty." = Thomas Jefferson_

I believe Lucifer is not wholly Satan. I believe Satan may be a part of Lucifer, as Metatron is a part of Gabriel, as our arm is a part of our body, as we are all a part of, in and from God. I believe Lucifer shows us many things (like knowledge and different thoughts that have selfishness entailed in them). This is true to the bringer of the light. We can choose to overcome these temptations and choose the light, or we can choose to follow controlling of one another and/or Satan.

I believe that thought is just that, a thought. It does not produce on this physical realm evil or good until we act upon it. I believe without these thoughts we would be just ignorant drones who have little understanding of the world around them and would definitely be limited in the parts of, in and from God, thus we would never get to know God as we should since we are a part of, in and from God.

I believe in reincarnation and the progressing of the soul, though I believe past life regressions to be a lie even though one can verify their truth through research. I believe because of reincarnation we have the potential to truly know God as never before, but it takes a lot of temperance and understanding. Thus it may take us incarnation after incarnation to master knowledge of good and evil till we can be its master in all aspects of the parts of, in and from God. Then we can learn how not to enact transgressions upon the other parts of, in and from God. I believe there will be even more aspects to learn about God when we reach this point of ascension of, in and from God; which we have not yet even realized exists. I believe that every one of you has a piece to the truth, falseness, and aspect of, in and from God that no one else has. This must be true if we are all a part of, in and from God. Now it's up to you. Which path do you want to be a part of in God's infinite realms, world lines, thoughts, progressions, and all?

" _This world would not exist if it wasn't for you." = Damon S. Hyde_

Other Beliefs

This will be one of the fun parts of writing this book for me, just some simple, basic, and crazy beliefs that I have. Some may offend you, others you may think I'm wacky, or you may agree with. The reason I am adding it is in that I would like you to also sit down sometime and maybe write down all your simple, basic, and crazy beliefs. Possibly compare them with other peoples' simple, basic, or crazy beliefs. None the less they are our beliefs and we should enjoy them, unless they bring you pain, then I encourage you to find new beliefs.

I believe YHVH, Jehovah, Yahweh etc... are some of our creators.

I believe everybody is correct at least about something or other.

I believe that women are the most beautiful of all physical creations that I have seen.

I believe that just because I have a belief doesn't mean that the belief is actually how it is.

I believe I treat people well and care for all people in some form.

I believe I am god, as are you.

I believe most religions only claim monotheism, but my God is truly Monotheistic.

I believe that we all have a purpose and potential which we seldom reach.

I believe this is because we believe lies that we have been told that keep us down.

I believe I have not done as much for humanity as I would have liked to, probably will do, and or desire to, due to the fear I would be killed or imprisoned by those who want to control us.

I believe that any of you who try to make this book into a religion are missing the point of being a part of, in and from God (is a way of life not a religion).

I believe those in power are working to try to unite all the religions into one religion for better control of the masses.

I believe that I am happy that I have a living soul, a body even if the body is temporary, and that I get to experience so many aspects of the parts of, in and from God.

I believe there are a few religions out there if not all that have not been tainted by Satan in some way or form, thus showing you how Satan manipulates and controls the world.

I believe I like hearing most peoples' beliefs even if I don't agree with them.

I believe we have the right to excommunicate, disfellowship people when they do us wrong.

I believe it is not always our responsibility or wise to correct someone who does us wrong.

I believe I would not enjoy any realm as much as I do if I you all didn't exist in it with me.

I believe most people want to be good, but they are scared it is weak to be so, or they will be taken advantage of if they are.

I believe most people have been brainwashed and do not truly think for themselves on the level that we were meant to being a part of, in and from God.

I believe most people are completely unaware of how they have been brainwashed.

I believe this is true for me also.

I believe Satan has a right to exist as a part of, in and from God.

I believe Satan is misguided in his perception of Man's development.

I believe Satan is not evil; he is just a manipulator of Man through Man's desires.

I believe you should fear everything and nothing.

I believe all my experiences to include all senses thereof are unique in the part of, in and from God in that it is only through my part in God that these experiences exist.

I believe that is true for everyone else also, and maybe even everything.

I believe many people hate because they either were brainwashed to, or they do not know how to deal with their fears.

I believe those who truly love me do so because they see the goodness in my soul.

I believe marriage or polygamy gives more dignity to an individual than just sleeping around.

I believe sleeping around is better for a human in some ways than just staying celibate.

I believe at times the best intentions and noblest of acts can have the most dire consequences.

I believe we are all connected as a part of, in and from God.

I believe I am doing a decent job of progressing my soul.

I believe I have also failed repeatedly and digress at times on progressing my soul.

I believe my soul is mine, given to me by God and there is nothing greater than Man's soul except God.

I believe if Man knew the power of their soul that was given to them by God then Man would never make war against Man again.

I believe that Jesus is the biggest and greatest part of, in and from God.

I believe no one has taught me more than Jesus except for God and myself.

I believe it is Jesus who has opened my heart to the point I can now start to think with my heart.

I believe I love Jesus with all my heart.

I believe in myself and in you.
CHAPTER THREE

RELATIONS

RELATIONS TO ALL HUMAN/LIVING SOULS

" _All virtue is summed up in dealing justly" = Aristotle_

I will state this bluntly and to the point as best I can. All relations with another human/living soul will with me be by contract. Any contract that entails a deeper meaning of relating, property, or other more serious matters will be by written contract. I state here and now that any contract I make with another human/living soul will not be allowed trespass upon the contract from any third party entity. Any contract between another human/living soul and myself can and will state within the contract that no third party intervention (to include fictions) is required or allowed to make judgment upon these contracts, unless stated in the contract itself.

contract: An agreement between parties, binding until and to include specified occurrences, default remedies, and or dates for ending of contract.

I view most interactions with other human/living souls as a contract. Even with acquaintances I will state immediately things such as "I do not like be hit on by guys". One friend told me "I do not like certain drug use in my presence". This woman ended up being a great friend. I view friendships as even greater contracts between two human/living souls. If I am to ever marry I guarantee it will be through contract.

There is reasoning for dealing like this. If I choose to contract with be it acquaintances, friends, loved ones of dealings of property and even life then that human/living soul knows exactly what they are getting, as do I. Wouldn't it be prudent to put it in writing stating the core values and other specifications for a marriage, such as I will not beat or harm you, or I will not have sexual intercourse with another? Many call this prenuptial agreement.

liberty: Being able to act free from restrictions and control for one's own self.

Note I state this definition with the intention that should be understood that it does not go as far as to harm another living soul's life or property. If it does not harm anyone's life or property, then one should be able to act free from restrictions and control.

" _What shall it profit Man if he gains the whole world but loses his soul?" = Jesus the Christ_

MY CONTRACT TO YOU, OTHER HUMAN/LIVING SOULS

" _It is possible to give without loving, but it is impossible to love without giving." = Richard Braunstein_

I will never purposefully, except for defending myself, inflict bodily harm upon you, another human/living soul ever. – I find violence beyond competition repulsive.

I will also try to always stay cognoscente of not inflicting emotional harm to you. – This is a hard task since I may have bad days and I'm human, but if I ever do I will sincerely apologize.

need: loss of life may occur without it.

I will never steal from any of you, and will always ask if possible when I become in need of any possession that is yours. – If I ever take anything without asking it is because I thought no one owned that possession, I had need of it, or by my use of it I was doing them a favor, if I was wrong I will return, make amends, and sincerely apologize again.

I will never knowingly deceive you in contract, I will be honest and fair in all contracts with you to the best of my abilities, and I will admit to any fault I showed in contract. – Sometimes not every variable is accounted for in a contract, I will do my best to bring every variable I am aware of to the table.

I will never engage in sexual relations with any of you that are not of the age to contract, procreate, and not given consent if you are a ward. I could not live with, respect, or even like myself to do such a thing.

I will never forcibly engage in sexual intercourse with any of you that are unwilling. No means no to me. I do not want from anyone anything that they are not willing to give to me. I see you as a living soul and a part of, in and from God, I can not infringe upon what is not allowed.

I will treat each of you with the respect and acknowledge your existence as a part of, in and from God. – Forgive me if I am busy, or have other pressing matters and I do not have the time to give the proper showing of respect and acknowledgement. There are approximately seven billion human/living souls and I just haven't figured out how to make time for that many on an individual flesh and bone basis.

I will tolerate all liberties displayed by you all as long as they do not impede upon my, or another human/living souls life, liberty, or property. – I will not judge you for what you choose to do with your body, be it sex, drugs, or anything else you deem a liberty.

I will try to look upon all of you initially, as I look upon myself and accept your existence in this world with the assumption that you mean me no harm. – This one is again hard to do. I'm human and sometimes I have bad days, it has nothing to do with you if I am not always extra cordial to you, my mind may just be elsewhere that day.

I will refrain from all relations on those of you who wish harm upon others or me, who deceive in contract, and or have habits and hobbies that could be detrimental to the well being of myself or others, whenever I so choose. – I find people like this as an impairment to myself and those around me, I am not a bad person, I don't desire to be by people who see me as bad in my life.

I will not give property and money to those beyond friends and loved ones even if asked, though I may be willing to offer my time to those who ask. – If this were the case I may as well be homeless, it just is not feasible to give to everyone. I will though offer ideas which may help for you to obtain property and money if I have the time.

" _Beware of he who would deny you access to information, for in his heart he dreams himself your master." = Commissioner Pravin Lal_

I will never withhold knowledge that I have from any of you, unless it infringes upon someone else's life, liberty, property, or divulging the information could put my life or another's in danger. – I am not your master.

I will excommunicate any who do me wrong, which may mean they failed in a promise (contract) they made with me, whenever I so choose. – Sad but true I have had to excommunicate allot of people I have known, many people like to take advantage of kindness, and are deceitful.

" _Dealing with backstabbers, there was one thing I learned. They're only powerful when you got your back turned." = Eminem_

I will never engage in homosexual acts with any of you. – Do what you like with those who will do it with you, I am not that man. I find it nauseating when guys hit on me. Please don't.

Above all I will respect and honor every one's life, liberty, and property. –

I do ask that you do the same for me. If you do not like what I do, be it drugs, sex, researching subjects you find taboo, eating the wrong foods, not praying to your god, etc..., by all means then do not associate with me. You are not my master either and as long as I do not cause harm to your life, liberty, or property then you have no right to deem your views above my liberty. Shame on you if you are one of those power hungry, short sighted, narrow minded, or brainwashed people thinking you are above any other living soul, and desire to control's one's life, liberty, or property due to ignorance or your wish to control them, whatever your reasoning.

My gift to you human/living souls

I have been debating for months now about doing this, and I have decided what could be more honorable than helping all of you with the problems thrown at you in life. So I am going to dedicate five years of my life, one thousand eight hundred and twenty six days from here forth during the rest of my life to help those who I am able to help. As I stated earlier, I will not provide monetary handouts to anyone other than family members and close friends, but what I can offer is knowledge, time, and good old fashioned hard work.

Six of the eight years that I raised my son I did very little for myself. Stopped dating, stopped partying, and stopped congregating with tons of friends like I did prior to raising him. What I did do was spend most my free time researching. I have knowledge of the law, of medicine, and of various methods used to better ones' self. I will help by showing you the facts and providing the knowledge I have so you can help yourself.

" _Give a Man a fish you feed him for a day. Teach a Man to fish you feed him for a lifetime." = unknown_

I learned much during those years and while researching for the writing of this book. I will gladly share my knowledge with any of you on an individual basis. My degree was in Political Science with an emphasis on Constitutional development. I was not taught many truths in college on how the system of government is working, but through diligent research I feel I have gained a good picture of the facts. I am an attorney in fact, a private attorney. That means I use the facts that exist utilizing them on apropria persona or sui juris basis. I have complete access to documents in credit, banking, magistrate courts, and the law of the land, maritime law, land rights, travel rights, Uniform Commercial Code, and debt. This is what I have been dedicating most of my time to these last few years. I do not practice law, nor do I offer legal determination, or inform any on their appropriate course of action. All I can offer is presentation of documents which present fact and only on an individual basis.

I am not a doctor and if I were I would probably be out of business, because I believe in curing people not providing pharmaceutical band aids that just keep the patient coming back for a prescription. I know of five cures for 90% of the cancers out there, and one cure for melanoma. In fact almost any virus can be made inactive and or destroyed (depending on the method you use to rid yourself of cancer or other viruses) in your system if you keep your body alkaline and not acidic. Some viruses like herpes are harder to kill than others. The information is readily available if you just take some time to do some proper research.

Here is a story I love and would like to share with you. A father who was a doctor sent his son to medical school. The son graduated and joined his father's practice. On his first day the son saw an old lady who had been coming in for years. He listened really close to what she had to say, did some proper research and told her his diagnosis. At the end of the day the father asked "Well how was your first day son?" The son replied "Great dad, you know old lady Johnson, I listened to her and figured out what was wrong with her, I cured her dad." The dad got furious and yelled at his son "You stupid shit, who do you think paid for your schooling all these years?"

" _Non nobis solum nati sumus. (Not for ourselves alone are we born.)" = Marcus Tullius Cicero_

I will also help with manual labor and prefer to help people in this manner over any other if needed from me. I know the method(s) of hypnotism if you think that may help. No cost for help ever, and I will not ask for money ever when offering my services (except for gas money if I have to travel to you), though I learned never to turn down donations, people for some reason take offense to that.

Maybe I'll be lucky and get to do book signings and I can possibly help you then. If that does happen I'll try to remember to bring my lap top so I can have information and documents readily available to provide for or show to you, as well as allot time in my schedule to help you.

I will not be willing to help anyone who would ask for my help in any way that I feel is morally or unethical against my well being and morals. If you need help in the bedroom, find another willing participant, or go to Nevada for a prostitute. If you want me to protect you from an abusive relationship, get a restraining order or hire a body guard. If you want me to infringe upon another's life, liberty, or property, I don't know what to tell you, it's not going to happen.

I will not accept abuse from anyone that I have agreed to help at my discretion. If you are not a good person who can't even show dignity to be kind to someone who is willing to help you, then do not be surprised if I refuse to help you any further. I hope you all react in kind to the kindness I am trying to portray. I mean to give and offer you knowledge and physical labor of which God has bestowed upon me to other living souls in hope that I may better their existence.

" _I don't worry about people misinterpreting my kindness for weakness." = Jason Bateman_

Relations to all fictional Entities

" _Corporation, n. An ingenious device for obtaining individual profit without individual responsibility = Ambrose Bierce_

How do I deal with fictions? I have put too much thought into this area. For the readers who may be unaware, countries are fictions, corporations are fictions, organizations of all types to include religions are fictions, and even you are a legal fiction in relation to how other fictions deal with you. I am not a legal fiction, I have created a Uniform Commercial Code 1 Financing Statement form and addendums as well as Security Agreements to let it be known that I will not allow any fiction to dupe me through assumption into acceptance of such once this book is published.

So as for you fictions, the providers of goods and services you bestow are second to none. You can also be the greatest manipulators, thieves, and brainwashers in the world. Many of you work honestly as the people who have created you; others work on the highest levels of treason to Mankind as if you were run by Satan. The best way I can probably deal with you is to break it down by the different types of fictional categories you may fall under.

de-jure: according to the law by rightful entitlement.

Countries – This is to include all countries that have been incorporated. I can only accept laws and rules of a country that is de-jure (that said that does not mean I must accept your laws that deprive me of my life, liberty, and or property, Man is a non-fiction and above fiction). I do not have to accept authority of the laws and rules of a country that is de-facto. This should be obvious to these countries. If the country is de-facto of nature then I will require certification of any and all laws and statutes of that country, otherwise I demand foreign diplomatic status as a part of, in and from God (I am a Sovereign) within your borders and territories. I will take charge of any securities of person that are associated with my legal person. I am a free Man as a part of, in and from God.

" _Man is free at the moment he wishes to be." = Voltaire_

I understand that it appears the world as a whole is headed toward globalization of laws and governance. I am not for or against this in either way, though I demand it be done with the realization of we are all a part of, in and from God. That said I will not be a willing party to this through deception and fictions making this choice for me. I must be presented with contract which includes full disclosure and understanding to accept a one world rule. If you think I or anyone is not important enough to be offered this, then those of you who have set this up are not fit to rule me. If securities of person to be associated with me in any way are created in this system or any system of governance then I will be the holder of these securities as I do not give anyone the right to make decisions for me.

I am willing to meet with the leaders of any country to discuss these matters upon invitation at the countries expense to determine if they accept me. I confess that I am a Citizen of the united States of America (I am an American Citizen, Natural) and this is the Citizenship that I have claimed through birth. I see a Republic as the greatest form of government Man has ever devised, a true government for the free Man; a government that assures its citizens Sovereignty equal to any King or Queen as should be being a part of, in and from God.

Note regarding 14th Amendment. I am not a dual citizen and have filled out all appropriate paperwork (or in the process of) and sent (will send) such to appropriate authorities for those who try to contract me into being a citizen of a fictional foreign corporation. Any contract you presume is null and void. I am not a person, a subclass of citizen, and I have no need for any of your so called privileges or benefits. Once this book is published you will not have jurisdiction over me nor do I grant you any jurisdiction. Your statutes do not apply.

" _Any people anywhere, being inclined and having the power, have the right to rise up, and shake off the existing government, and form a new one that suits them better. This is a most valuable - a most sacred right - a right, which we hope and believe, is to liberate the world." = Abraham Lincoln_

We as Man being a part of, in and from God have the power.

Businesses – This is to include businesses that have been incorporated. I will continue to contract with you as allotted by law (Uniform Commercial Code). You must understand what I am saying though. I will do my best to adhere to all contracts; I like what you provide for the most part. Though many of you have become full of greed and selfishness and have truly forgotten about your common Man. If you utilize these greed and selfish practices on me I will bring the fraud to court to discharge all matters.

Businesses, you don't have to deal with me if you do not choose to, but I do realize what you provide is often second to none and I am grateful for most of your existences, products, and services. Though for every five times I am pleased by some business, I am screwed over and taken advantage of by at least one. So I state once again, I would love to contract with you if you are willing, but I reserve the right to discharge in court any contractual fraud if you take advantage of, provide me with a product or service that is unsatisfactory, or try to screw me.

Organizations – This may be my favorite of all fictions. You provide services that are specialized, be it religious, groups, etc... I hope all organizations that will have me, want me to attend, or be a part of will accept me if even but for a day. I hope most of you thrive throughout the world and I can enjoy your existences for a long time, except the ones that make money off of illnesses. I find you despicable in action and existence. People realize that if these organizations ever got a cure they would be out of business, so they don't want a cure they just want your resources. I know there are a few of you that truly are not like that, for them I commend you for really wanting to help and cure people. That is for organizations who know there is a cure, invest in areas they know won't find a cure, and market remedies of the symptoms just to take peoples' money.

*Note – The original Defining God book was stolen, both the hard copy and soft copy. Perhaps I could find it somewhere in my thousands of emails. To recreate the original I just went through version 2 and deleted what was added to the best of my ability.

DEFINING GOD V2 is also available with a whole new chapter and new subchapters.

If you like this book, find it interesting, or would recommend it, please tell your friends to download it too, if not than too bad for us both.

Please visit HTTP:/DEFININGGOD.NET for more information.

Thank You,

Damon S. Hyde
