

DREAM MOUNTAIN

By Charissa Taylor Lees

Copyright © 2012 Charissa Taylor Lees

Smashwords Edition

Smashwords Edition, License Notes

Thank you for downloading this free ebook. You are welcome to share it with your friends. This book may be reproduced, copied and distributed for non-commercial purposes, provided the book remains in its complete original form. If you enjoyed this book, please return to Smashwords.com to discover other works by this author. Thank you for your support.

Table of Contents

Prologue

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Epilogue

About the Author

More Books by Charissa

Connect with Me Online

Excerpt from Lil' Sherwood

Dream Mountain

Prologue

The mountain stood as a single sentinel, tall and proud. No one would dare burst his solemn reign for to do so would be to disturb something sacred; something that existed beyond space and time. The mist surrounded the mountain as a silent mystical guard. Legend told that those who entered the mist never returned, yet whether that was because they died or found something to wondrous to return from no one knew.

The mountain and his mist partner stood there long before any humans had stirred in the forest lying before it. Only the creatures of the forest could tell the mountain's true story. And they weren't talking. No one would have believed them for the story, the true legend, was almost too wondrous for even them to believe. Yet, they did, for that mountain and his story held the only key for their survival.

The creatures, great and small, stopped their reminiscing as the soft footfalls echoed in their forest. Humans rarely came to this side of the forest where the animals took up a forced residency, for it was too close to the mountain and his mist, which lapped at the forest's edge. Yet, footfalls echoed as some of the creatures sprang up to see the human brave enough to enter this section of the mountain's forest.

She didn't notice them as she walked. Her heart was full of the mountain's song that called softly to her. It pulled her, coaxing her to come where no one dared. She could no more ignore it than she could ignore her beating heart or the whisper of her grandfather's gentle pleading voice in her ear. She knew only that she must follow where it led, even if that meant to the heart of the sentinel mountain.

^^^^^^^^^^

Chapter 1

It's still ringing clearly, as if it can pull me with its might. It's so odd, the song seems like it has a force that could move a mountain, yet is as gentle as a mist.

It doesn't make any sense. Why me? Was it Grandfather? I never heard the song until he told me that story. He said heard the song all his life, but if that's true than how could he have resisted its magical pull? How could he have lived such a full life with this song constantly pulling him here? He said he had to, that while he wasn't the one and that I shouldn't resist, but needed to follow and trust. I am following, but I don't know what to trust. I wish I knew if I am doing this right. I just wish I understood more.

I stopped my musing when I stepped on a stick and its crack echoed loudly thought the forest's stillness. I winced automatically. It was time for a break. I started walking at sun up, but I really needed a break from my thoughts more than anything else. I sat on the closest stump, its moss cover providing a nice cushion.

A movement to my left caused me to look in that direction. A small squirrel watched me from underneath the foliage. Expecting him to run, I stretched out my hand and made a calling noise with my mouth invitingly. The squirrel didn't blink. I reached into the tan pouch at my side and pulled out a piece of bread, crumbling it in my fingers. Slowly, I stretched out my hand again, this time the squirrel sniffed appreciatively. It was unusual for the squirrel not to have scampered away yet. Was everything about this forest strange? I waited for the young one to make the next move. Another minute and I watched amazed as he ate tentatively out of my hand.

When he finished, he sat back on his hind legs for a moment, before cocking his head at me, then scampering away. I watched him go silently, somehow knowing he had said, "Thank you. I'll be right back." I decided to wait and see if my little friend did return, after all a few more minutes rest could only help me.

"So you've finally come."

I jerked awake to find a pure white mare standing before me. She stood about fourteen hands and her soft white coat almost shimmered. Her eyes were a light blue that saw into one's soul. And I was pretty sure she had just spoken to me.

"Excuse me?" I asked, my voice only a whisper.

She seemed to smile at me. Then I heard her voice as clearly as one can see a ripple in a pond. "I said you've finally come. We've been waiting a long time for you." Her voice had a mix of sweetness and relief.

"I must be dreaming." I shook my head, trying to clear it.

"Why is that, my dear?"

"Oh, I don't know. Maybe because I'm talking to a horse!"

Her serene older façade fell away with her next answer. "Lots of people do that. We just happen to think most humans are too ignorant to reply too!"

"Whoa! Total turn around!" I shifted backwards at the snap in her voice.

The horse sighed. "Maybe we should start over."

"That'd be nice."

"What's your name?"

"It was Grace."

"Was? You're not sure?" She was amused now.

"I'm not sure of much of anything right now," I replied, feeling very lost.

"That's obvious. But your name is very important to whom you are," she said wisely.

"So what's your name?" I fired back, tired of the questions.

"You tell me."

"I'm sorry?" I was royally confused now.

"I want you to tell me my name."She spoke slowly, as if to a child.

"Hold on. If names are so important, how come you don't know yours?"

"I do. But I want you to tell me what it is."

"Is this some kind of test?"

"You could say that." She leaned close and rubbed her velvet nose on my shoulder, than blew gently in my face. "Come on, Grace, look at me. What's my name?"

I looked at her soft white face and into her blue eyes and I knew. "Daydream. Your name is Daydream."

Daydream smiled. "That's right," she affirmed softly. "I knew you could do it."

"But how did I know?" I was completely amazed I had guessed right, though I couldn't even say it was really a guess, as much as I suddenly just knew.

She shrugged. "You've always known. It's always been inside you." She had more human facial expressions than most humans.

"I don't understand. Are you here to help me?" I asked hopefully.

"Um...yes." She said non-committedly.

"What's that supposed to mean?"

"I'll give you support as you need it." She paused. "What do you understand?"

"Not much. I know I have this song and that I need to follow it wherever it leads me," I said, looking at her and hoping I had answered right.

Daydream nodded. "That's a start. Keep going. Tell me about yourself."

Why, was what I wanted to ask, but I didn't think it was a good time for more questions. So, I just started talking, giving my life story in a synopsis version. "Well, when I was ten years my parents were killed in a car accident. So I went to live out in the hills of Pennsylvania with my grandfather. I was home schooled, but my grandfather put me in this tiny public school, though I never really fit in. My favorite times were on the farm when I could be alone and just lose myself in a daydream. Then about a month ago he got really sick." I had to pause and take a deep breath as I once again saw him on the hospital bed. Daydream made a sympathetic noise and nudged my shoulder.

I continued, "Right before he died he said there was something important I had to know. He told me about a mountain that was real, yet outside of time and space, a special mountain that generated a special song. He'd heard the song all his life and seen the mountain in a dream. He called it his gift and curse, a gift because it gave him comfort and a curse because he knew he wasn't allowed to follow it. He could only pass it on and I was the one the song had been waiting for. He said I had to follow it to wherever the mountain was. So, I am."

Daydream nodded. "You're not in Pennsylvania anymore."

"I'm not in Kansas anymore!" I exclaimed.

"Huh?" Daydream looked at my confused.

"Never mind. It's from this movie...never mind." I was getting a headache. "I need answers. I have too many questions and zero answers. For example, where am I really? I know I walked into the forest a few miles from my home, but I'm guaranteeing this isn't the same forest."

"Not really. You might say you walked through a natural portal."

"A portal?" I asked dubiously. "I said I needed answers, not more questions."

"That's what I gave you. The forest acts as a portal connecting your old world with this one. The portal has been shrinking due to the logging on your side of the forest. That's why all the animals have been forced this way, closer to the mountain."

"Wait. Two different worlds? So, what world is this?"

"That's part of what you have to figure out. I can't tell you everything. You need to earn this and claim your destiny."

"You know, it's funny, but I really don't recall hitting my head," I muttered.

Daydream laughed. "Probably because you didn't. This is all very real. And it's time your real journey started. Are you ready?"

"No."

"Okay, stupid question."

"Ya think?"

"Well, come on, we need to start anyway."

"You're coming with me?" For some reason, I figured I had to do it alone or something.

Daydream shot me an astounded look. "Of course I am. I'm here because of you. I told you I've been waiting for you."

"But why? Why me?"

"Because I was created for you. How do you think you knew my name?"

"Created for me? How is that possible?"

"The one thing you should have learned by now is that anything is possible."

"I guess," I replied still working on the fact that a horse was created just for me.

"Grace, trust me. You're going to need me. Besides, there's more to me than meets the eye."

I looked up at her. "What do you mean?"

Laughing, she answered, "I have to save some surprises. Don't worry, I promise you'll like them."

I stared at her a moment then decided to take her at her word. "All right, where is the mountain?"

"So, you are ready. The mountain is in the direction your heart is calling you. All you need to do is to follow the song. Let's go then. Hop on." She lowered herself and I climbed on.

A clattering noise came from above me and looking up I saw the squirrel I had first befriended.

"You went to get Daydream for me, didn't you?"

He nodded yes.

"That was really kind of you. Thank you so much. I hope I can repay you one day."

"If you do what we believe you are destined too, then you will more than repay me," he chattered before disappearing into the tree.

"Do all of the animals around here talk? And what did he mean by that?" I asked, astounded.

"Yes, and you'll see." She answered cryptically, before adding, "Which direction?"

The song had already begun to pull me again and it was easy to point her slightly to the right. She nodded and we set off.

^^^^^^^^^^

The forest ended in a veil of mist that started at the edge of the forest as tinsel and spread into a white smoke blanket. I could only stare in amazement. The mountain wasn't visible behind the veil, but the song in my heart assured me it was there.

"This is your next obstacle," Daydream said using her serene voice.

"Oh. Joy. Can I get a second opinion?" I asked.

"Nope. Let's go."

She took a step forward and I took a deep breath. I did not want to do this, but she already knew that, so I didn't bother to say anything.

At first, the mist flowed gentle around us as if we were walking through wispy clouds. I reached out a hand and watched the mist swirl around it.

"It's beautiful," I whispered.

"Yeah, now." She said not impressed.

"Why? What's going to happen?"

"Just wait, you'll see."

Two hours later, if I hadn't know for a fact that I was sitting on Daydream's back, I wouldn't have known she was there at all. White horse and think white smoke do not work well together for seeing the white horse. I reached down and buried my hands in her mane tightly.

"Ouch. Are you okay?"

"Yeah, sorry. I can't see a thing. I feel like I'm blind, only instead of black it's white. I don't like being blind and you keep stumbling. I'm afraid you're going to get hurt. You can't see any better than I can, can you?"

"No, and now I'm annoyed. You're right this is too dangerous. I'm stepping in holes I can't see. I think it's time for some light."

"How are you going to do that?"

"With you. Slide down and come stand in front of me," Daydream said.

"Yeah, no problem." I slid down carefully and kept my hand on her body. Slowly, I took a small step forward, than another. I felt Daydream's head bump my shoulder and she whinnied softly. I placed my hand on her nose and let her guide me forward so that I stood in front of her. It surprised me at how trustingly I let her guide me. I never trusted anyone.

"Now what do I do?" I asked, my hand still on her velvet nose.

"Do you remember I said I was created for you?"

"Yes."

"That is the truth, but I was created not only as you see me now. I am not just a horse." Daydream explained softly.

"Um...okay," I replied ready to believe anything she told me at this point.

"So, what else am I? Come on now, you know this the same why you knew my name." Daydream, her voice gentle, urged me to say what she believed I knew.

I couldn't see her so I began to gently stoke her soft muzzle. I reached up and stroked higher on her head, slowly working my way up. When my hand reached just under the midpoint of her forehead, I realized what I was searching for. I stroked her face then reached upwards one more time knowing what I would find. I didn't even gasp when I felt the hard horn. I dropped my hand to her muzzle.

"You're a unicorn," I said, somehow managing a tone of wonder and matter-of-fact at the same time.

"Yes," she replied, her voice showing how pleased she was that I figured it out. "Command me to reveal it," she urged.

I took a step back and smiled. "Daydream! Unicorn!"

As the words left my mouth, a pink spiraled horn appeared in the middle of her forehead and a soft pink glow began in the mist. It quickly grew until I could once again see Daydream's face. The glow continued until it surrounded us in its pink haze. We grinned at each other.

"Hi," I said.

"Hi yourself," she paused, "Well, do you like my new look?"

"Wow," was all I could manage.

She laughed. "I'll take that as a yes. Come on, we still have a ways to go."

I hurried to mount her. We set off as soon as I was properly seated, but this time the way was much smoother.

"How come we didn't do this before? We could have saved so much time."

"Maybe, but didn't you learn anything by not doing it sooner?"

"Like what?"

"Anything."

My mind tracked over the past two hours: traveling thought the white billowing mist, being almost blind, not knowing where we were going, trusting the horse...no, the unicorn under me to keep us in the right direction and safe. That's it! Through the entire time of walking in the mist I had placed complete trust in Daydream. Even when I wasn't sure what her next surprise was, I still trusted her entirely.

"You're right. I trust you. That wouldn't have happened if we had used your light immediately."

"Exactly. As we grow together our bond will get strong enough that nothing will be able to break it."

"That's awesome."

Daydream laughed. "Just wait until you see how awesome."

That was fine with me.

^^^^^^^^^^

Chapter 2

"Did you hear that?" I asked, sitting up straighter.

"Hear what?" Daydream asked puzzled.

"I could have sworn I heard a call for help." I strained to hear anything besides the mist moving. "I guess I was wrong."

"No. Which way do you think it was coming from?" Daydream turned her head to see me.

I pointed to the left and just ahead of us. "Over there. But why look on just a hunch?"

"Because you never have 'just a hunch' when it comes to this place," Daydream replied, as she started in the direction I had pointed.

"Oh goody. We're back to cryptic answer."

"Not really, but you'll understand later. For now, if you have a 'hunch' follow it." She continued moving through the mist by her horn's pink glow.

"Right," I responded very...um...reassured.

We walked for another half hour before Daydream paused. "Are we going the right direction?"

"I don't know. I heard it too long ago."

"You know. Stop listening and feel it. Where is someone in trouble? Open your heart, Grace," she said patiently.

"Right," I responded with the same sarcastic tone. Open my heart? How in the world was I supposed to do that? My heart heard only a single song. Wait! Maybe that was it! The song was the key. I closed my ears and focused completely on the song, letting it fill me and flow outwards. My feelings turned to match the mood of the music. Together we explored through the mist seeing everything clearly as my heart and the song merged into one. And that's when I saw him.

He looked to be my age and height. It looked like we both had brown hair and blue eyes, but while my build was like that of an athlete, his was more like a gladiator. I gasped as I realized he was chained to the ground. Slowly, I looked around him to see what had put him there. Instead, I found a horse hobbled fifteen yards from him. The horse was a midnight black proving to be the exact opposite of my pearl white Daydream.

"I can see them!" I informed Daydream pointing in their direction. "They look like they've been chained."

"They?"

"A young man my age and a black horse."

"Nightmare," Daydream said grimly.

"Who?" I asked still watching the pair.

"My mate."

I lost them. I whipped my head around to look at Daydream. "Your who?"

"My mate," She replied still grim. She looked back at me and smiled. "What? You didn't think I would have one?"

"Uh, no! That's not it. I'm just surprised that's all."

Daydream sighed. "I have not seen or heard from him in many weeks. He went to go to look for the man you saw him with and never returned. Now I know why."

"Who is the guy he's with?"

"You'll see. How much farther are they?"

I closed my eyes and putting my heart into the song easily this time we flew away. Within seconds, I saw them directly in front of us. "Straight ahead. Not too far now."

Daydream went faster. In minutes, Daydream's horn lit the place where the young man laid chained to the ground. I hopped down and Daydream put her horn on the lock causing it to fall away. As I helped him to stand and then supported him, Daydream went to help her mate.

"Are you okay?"

"I will be. Thanks. You don't happen to have any food do you?" He asked, weakly.

"Yeah, but you need water first. Here, sit down again. Steady now. Okay." I reached into the pouch at my waist and pulled out some bread, cheese, and a fruit and nut mix, followed by a bottle of water. "Here, drink this first. It's not much, but at least it's nutritious."

I sat next to him and waited while he ate drank and ate. Glancing over, I saw Daydream and Nightmare getting reacquainted. I looked back to the young man.

"What's your name?"

"Hunter. Thanks for the rescue."

"No problem. I'm Grace. What are you doing so deep in this mist?"

"I'm trying to reach the mountain and my sister."

"Your sister?"

"Yep. I have this twin I've never seen or heard from before."

"How can you not know you have a sister?"

"I'm an orphan. I was raised in the foster system and moved around a lot. I don't know anything about my family." He admitted easily.

"Wow. That's harsh."

"Eh. It's life."

"So, how did you find out about her? And why here would she be here of all places?"

"I don't know. About three and a half years ago I started feeling really strange. I would get weak suddenly, not be able to focus and I was constantly hearing this haunting song. I ignored it for years, but I finally figured I had nothing to lose, so I followed it into the forest where I met Nightmare. He said he was created for me. Which is weird, but I can deal, after all not much of this place is normal. Anyway, he had this scabbard for me, which had a parchment inside." He paused to tug the scabbard from where it lay beside him and pulled out a yellow and brown parchment. "I think it's a verse from the music I keep hearing." He handed her the paper.

On it were the words:

The twins reunited will bring peace to the land,

Sister and brother united for our cause,

With goddess and hunter our world, Dream Mountain,

In happy abundance forever will live.

"Wow."

"No kidding. I know I'm the hunter since that only makes sense, which means, I have a sister. I believe my sister has the name of a goddess. My guess would be a goddess of the forest."

"That would be cool. What is the cause it talks about?"

"Peace and happy abundance, I guess."

"Well at least you have a little more info than me. I don't have any words to the song."

"You hear the song too? Are you sure you aren't missing a brother?"

"Sorry. I was an only child."

"It was worth a shot. So, what's your story?"

By the time I had finished explaining everything. Daydream walked up and nudged my shoulder.

"Are you ready to proceed?"

"I guess so." I looked at Hunter and Nightmare. "Are you guys coming with us?"

"Sure, we both want to get to that mountain and it would be nice to have some company. Especially if we get into more trouble."

"How did you end up like that anyway?" I asked as we mounted up.

"It was bizarre. We stopped for the night, I lay down to get some sleep and when I woke up I had these mounds of dirt locking me down. Nightmare too. We tried all morning to get away. It was hours later that the dirt fell off to reveal the chains. We got the picture then that it was hopeless." He paused looking like he was deep in thought, than he swung around to look at Daydream. "Your horse is a unicorn."

"Yep," I said proudly.

"Nightmare, you wouldn't be keeping something from me, would you?" He asked suspiciously.

"What do you mean?" Nightmare's voice was deep and had a spooky quality too it.

"It just seems like... well... if you were a unicorn you'd tell me right." He finally spit out.

Nightmare laughed and stopped walking. "Get down, Hunter, and stand in front of me."

"Okaaay." Hunter stood in front of his stallion.

Nightmare smiled. "Now, command it."

"You want me to command you to become a unicorn? You've got to be kidding."

"No."

Hunter laughed, but stopped weakly when I shot him a "He is so seriously not kidding" look.

"All right then." He looked into Nightmare's eyes, "Nightmare, Unicorn!"

It was like an invisibility cloak fell away from the deep blue horn that suddenly appeared in the middle of Nightmare's forehead. Just as quickly as it appeared, it began to give off a deep purple light which mixed and intertwined with Daydream's soft pink one.

"Awesome!" Then Hunter exploded. "So why am I just now finding out about this? You could have had us free seconds after those chains were on!"

"Yes, that is true. However, you would not have learned anything and we would have upset the mountain's timing."

This unicorn was as stuck on the learning thing as Daydream!

"What are you talking about?" He asked still on a disbelief high.

"The mountain clearly knew that it was not the right time for us to reach it, so it delayed us."

"First of all, you are giving this mountain way to much credit. Secondly, why is now the right time?" Hunter asked as he climbed back onto the stallion.

"This land has many secrets all of which will be relieved to you. Just not right now." Nightmare answered, as we started moving again.

Hunter looked at me. "Is she this bad?"

I shared a smile with him and patted Daydream's back. "Worse."

^^^^^^^^^^

Chapter 3

The combined power of the unicorn's glowing horns made seeing an easy task and that made traveling easier. Being with Hunter and Nightmare also made it more enjoyable. I watched Daydream and Nightmare together. Their love practically radiated from them, though it was hard to explain just how I could see that.

Hunter and I talked about our lives in our own world to pass the time. While I liked to daydream, his dream world was more in the computer realm using them to escape reality and create complete worlds of his own. It was interesting to get to know him, even if we didn't have much in common.

Daydream stopped our conversation with a gleeful sound. I looked ahead and could just make out a large dark mass in front of us.

"Is that the mountain?" I asked skeptically.

Daydream nodded. "Yes."

"Just wait till you see it up close," Nightmare said, his voice giving the eerier impression the place was haunted.

"Great," Hunter muttered.

I nodded my agreement, and focused on the mountain before us. I could feel the song inside me pulling me towards its origin. "I know," I muttered, "I'm going."

The rock face came up before us and I gasped in horror at the rugged, jagged mountain. Its slope was almost invisible covered with rocks that jutting upward at odd angles and ending in even sharper points. What was more unbelievable was the mountain's color was a black purple. It had nothing to do with the glow from the unicorn's horns, but radiated from inside the rocks. I slid slowly off Daydream's back, my eyes never leaving the mountain and Hunter followed.

"Tell me we don't have to go up that," Hunter said, looking straight up at its sheer size.

I took a step back dreading the thought of climbing such a monstrosity, but even as I tried to step back the song began singing louder and yanking me forcefully forward. I had never felt it so strong and relentless. It had always been sweet and gentle as it wooed me towards its origin. This new version was as scary as the mountain. I shuddered, trying to decide what to do.

Daydream must have sensed my lack of courage, because she stepped closer to me and put her horn on my shoulder.

"Shh, child. Don't fight the song, feel it. Let it become one with you as you did to find Hunter and Nightmare."

"It's so strong," I whispered.

"Yes, it is finally coming home. Don't be scared. You must let the song guide you not let it rule you. It is a part of this world. Use it. Let it show you the true mountain," Daydream whispered to me.

I swallowed hard and nodded. I could do this. After all I had come this far, to go back now would be a betrayal of what I had already accomplished. A picture of my grandfather came to mind. He wanted this. I had to have courage, if not for me, then for him.

I took a deep breath. "Can we find any path at all?" I asked softly.

Daydream and Nightmare looked at each other, almost sadly it seemed. Daydream finally shook her head. "There is no path, however, I can pick out a way for us to travel. Grace, follow me, then Hunter, and Nightmare will bring up the rear."

"Shouldn't the guys be in front? You know, for protection or something?" Hunter questioned.

"No," Nightmare answered, "Daydream is able to pick out the better path. Plus, if Grace falls you need to be behind her to catch her. We are in more danger from the rear than the front."

Hunter shook his head. "If you say so."

"Grace, you need to focus on the song. Follow me, but concentrate not on your steps but on the mountain and the song."

I nodded, not really understanding. I was seeing the mountain, but how could I focus on it? I thought about it as I followed Daydream. The way was so hard, a slightly wrong placement of my foot and I stumbled again. Hunter grabbed me and I nodded absently to him. It was almost a normal routine now. My hands were rough and scraped. From the way the others struggled, I could tell they didn't have it any easier. I had to find an answer quickly, but the mountain was already foremost in my mind because of the pain it was causing my friends and I. How much more could I possible concentrate on it?

A hole that appeared out of nowhere caused me to fall yet again. I narrowly missed twisting my foot. I tried to stop myself by grabbing onto the closest stalagmite but its saw-toothed edges cut my skin deeply and I was forced to let go. I yelped in pain as I hit the ground.

"Grace!" Hunter yelled sometime after I hit.

Somehow the thought of "What an ironic name," made it though my pain riddled brain. I sat up gingerly and grasped my hand, applying pressure to try to stop the blood. Somehow, Daydream managed to turn around and came to my side.

"What happened?" She asked.

"A hole... out of nowhere," I managed through gritted teeth.

Daydream nodded her understanding. "Show me your hand."

I held it out to her, still gripping it in my other hand.

"You did a number on that one."

"It seemed like a good idea at the time," I muttered.

Daydream chuckled. "At least your humor is still in tack, if not your grace."

I grimaced. "Daydream, it hurts."

"I can see that," she answered, still examining it. "Okay, close your eyes and trust me."

That was the easy part. I could trust Daydream with anything. I shut my eyes tight and waited. A moment later, warmth surrounded the pain and encased it. The warmth continued to seep into the hand, it felt as if a flowing brook was running through my veins, healing every centimeter of my hand as it moved. Following the brook was something so calm and soothing, a peaceful healing.

"Open your eyes, Grace."

I looked down at my hand, feeling no pain at all. What I saw made me stare in amazement. There were no bruises or blood, only perfect skin, which seemed to have a newborn baby's glow.

"Wow," I whispered astounded.

Daydream nodded her approval. "Yes, it's not bad. Come on, let's keep moving."

I nodded and stood up, still shaking my head in wonder. Glancing back at Hunter, he gave me a look that expressed his own shock. I smiled.

"It's nice having two unicorns around," he commented.

I had to agree. I turned to follow my unicorn again, when I noticed the rock that had caused all the pain in the first place. My blood was still on it, but instead of rolling down the side, it was seeping into it, almost as if the mountain was accepting my blood as part of itself. I shook my head at the crazy idea. That wasn't possible. But the idea made me think about all the other 'impossible' things that had happened to me lately. I reached out a hand and rubbed it against a part of the rock that I was passing. It was warm to my touch, almost pulsating with life that I had not noticed.

Daydream had said to know the mountain and to feel the song. I already knew the two were linked somehow. Could they be part of the same? I needed to find out. I focused on the song allowing it to fill both my mind and heart. Once again, I felt it flow through me as powerful as a river and as gentle as a brook. I focused the song thrusting it towards the mountain. The pulse that I had felt from the mountain before was a slow dormant one, but now both the song and the mountain sprang to life. I could see the mountain now with my mind and heart, rather than my eyes, and it was full of life. Where the deep black purple coloring was before a now vibrant violet was the inlaid hue and the jagged rocks flowed together to become smooth gems.

I saw Daydream twalking carefully among the gem-like stones. It looked to be slippery and some of the gems were sharp, but that didn't make any sense. I remembered what the mountain really looked like and realized my eye's vision was doing its best to blend with what I saw in my mind. The mountain and song were trying to tell me something. I looked around again and saw off to my right a ladder of gem steps extending up the mountain and out of sight.

"Daydream!" I called. She stopped and turned to me as my vision returned to normal. "There are steps over there," I said, pointing in the direction I had seen them.

"You're kidding right?" Hunter asked.

Daydream looked in the direction and back to me. She smiled. "Okay, but I can't see them. You're going to have to lead, Grace."

"Me?" I squeaked.

Daydream smiled and I heard Nightmare snort from behind me.

"You see the steps right?" She asked calmly as I looked again. "Listen to the mountain and song," she added, when I didn't answer right away.

I heard the music well up inside me as I looked to where I knew the steps should be. Hunter came up to stand beside me and as we watched the mountain began to move. The first step simply formed where it belonged, but where the second step should have been was a jagged rock instead. As the four of us watched, the rock melted down forming steps two and three. Behind them were more steps reaching up past where I could see, just as I knew there should be.

"Wow," Hunter said.

"Uh-huh," I agreed.

"Lead on, Grace," Daydream commanded.

I nodded and picked my way over to the steps. Once there, the climbing became much easier and faster. This mountain was full of surprises and I had the feeling we were just seeing the beginning of them.

^^^^^^^^^^

Chapter 4

I was the first to break through the thin veil of mist. I had reached a smooth ledge that was at least six feet wide and formed a broad path going horizontally around the mountain. I took a few steps forward and behind me the others stepped from the mist. The mist laid a blanket at our feet making it impossible to see down the mountain's side, but the way in front of us and above us was perfectly clear.

"Um, are we above clouds or something?" Hunter asked looking around. "If so, should be harder than this to breath. We should need oxygen masks or something."

"Oxygen masks?" Nightmare question, "what world are you from?"

"Not here obviously," Hunter muttered in reply.

"It does seem a little weird," I agreed, noting also the deep purple black hue was back. My vision was normal again.

Just then a young man stepped from around the mountain's curve and stopped a few feet in front of me. I gasped in surprise, but could make no other sound. He looked completely at home and in control. As he coolly studied us, I took the time to study him. He was tall, maybe six foot two or three and his build was lean and lanky. He had a lean and handsome face. His eyes proved to be such a piercing gray, that I actually had to force myself not to take a step back from him. His hair was straight brown and went to just barely past his shoulders. To my chagrin, I found myself wondering if it was as soft as it looked. His skin tone was so even, that I knew it wasn't just the sun, I strongly suspected he was at least part Native American. The thought fascinated me, as I had always been interested in their culture.

As I waited for our challenger to speak, I heard the song began to pulse loudly again in my heart. This time though, I willingly let myself fall into the music, knowing it would show me something I needed to see. The song gently flowed out of me and to my surprise surrounded the young man. Somehow I knew beyond a doubt the song wanted me to trust him, and I found myself whispering my consent to do so. But the song only became stronger. Its power grew to the same intensity I had felt when we first reached the mountain and the strength of it forced me to step towards the man. "I don't understand," I whispered, but in the moment I had taken the step it settled back to its constant humming in my heart. Whoever this guy was, the song felt he was important.

Not able to see more than the song wanted to show me, I looked up curiously at the man. "What's your name?"

"Tommy," his voice was strong, but held a gentle quality. Any doubts I still had about trusting him vanished when he spoke. "It is good to finally see you."

"Oh no," I groaned, "Not you too!"

Tommy's smile lit up the air around him. "Yes, even me. Come on, I've got a place already for you to rest. I imagine your climb has not been the easiest one."

"Well, not until we found the steps," I replied.

Tommy looked at me in surprise. "Then you've already learned more than I hoped. You really do belong here."

"Um, apparently you know more about this than I do," I started, but Tommy interrupted me.

"Yes, I know a lot. But as I'm sure you've been informed I can only tell you so much. Most you have to figure out for yourself."

Hunter groaned in frustration behind me. "Not again!"

I completely agreed with him, that line was way past old, and somehow hearing it from unicorns made it easier to take than from someone my own age.

Tommy laughed out loud at that. "Sorry, but those are the rules of the mountain. Maybe you have some questions that I can answer."

"Let's start with who you are," Hunter demanded, stepping to my side.

Tommy looked at him amused, but answered. "I am the caretaker of this mountain until the true guardian returns."

"And who is the true guardian?" I asked.

"That has yet to be determined," Tommy answered.

"Right," I said.

Tommy smiled at me sympathetically. "I know it's confusing right now, but I can give you some answers. Let's start with getting you a good meal and rest, okay?"

I nodded, realizing a hot meal sounded great and I was sleepy. We followed Tommy single file on the mountain path, it didn't seem to go up or down, but straight around to the other side, where it entered a dark hole. Tommy never hesitated. I looked back at Daydream who nodded at me reassuringly. Shrugging, I followed into the cave.

Inside, it was shocking to see a full home. In front of me, was a very large room with a wood table and three chairs on the left side. The back wall had four opened doors. The right wall spilt in two, with the second half holding an open door, and the first half giving way to a second large room. The angle I stood at prevented me from seeing inside. Next to the door I had just entered through was the living room. It was the strangest sight of all.

It was a rounded room with a purple tiled floor. Arabian styled pillows sprawled across the floor. Each one had tassels on all four corners and had either stripes or solid colors of red, green, blue, orange, and purple. Both side walls held rock shelves full of books that looked to be from every age of man and in the center wall was a large screen television. It was hilarious because it seemed so out of place. The room had no lights, but there was no need. The mountain provided a purple light that penetrated every corner, making it seem only slightly darker than outside.

Tommy stopped in the middle of the room and I noticed he watched my face with undisguised amusement. "Welcome home."

He pointed behind him and continued, "The first door on the left is the kitchen, the next door is my bedroom, after that is Hunter's bedroom and finally your bedroom, Grace. The last door is the door to the Command Center, but we'll save that for later. The open space leads to the stables, and yes, they are all prepared for Nightmare and Daydream. Rougefire's, that's my horse, has the first stall, than Nightmare's, and Daydream's. There is one extra stall too, which will remain empty for now. I'm sure the unicorns are tired and could use a long rest, so why don't you guys help out your friends, while I get some food ready." It wasn't a suggestion, but somehow he made it feel like it was the best idea.

We stood there for a second, before we headed in the direction he pointed, as if we had any other choice. The stable was very spacious, and the stalls were not only big, but also neatly made up with clean sweet smelling hay. Rougefire looked up at our entrance and neighed a greeting. Daydream and Nightmare responded in like, while I waved. Hunter was concentrating on the stall door.

"Hey, Hunter, you okay?"

"Grace? How did he know all our names? And how could he have everything exactly ready for us?" Hunter asked looking up from his study of the stall door latch.

I shook my head. "I don't know. But nothing surprises me anymore. I guess we can ask."

"Not that we'll get an answer," Hunter grumbled and I nodded my agreement.

Daydream laughed softly. "You will find that answers will come more quickly now that you are close to the heart of the mountain."

"Why is that?" I asked her as I undid the latch on her door to allow her entry.

"You know the mountain and the song are connected, it only makes sense that at the heart of the sentinel mountain are the answers."

"Or at the top," Nightmare amended and Daydream nodded her agreement.

I shook my head not sure whether I felt amused or annoyed. "You guys are as bad as ever."

"Yeah, no help," Hunter added, but his smile took away any sting his words might have had on his friends.

Nightmare nicked him in the shoulder and Hunter let out a small yelp, but got the message and opened his friend's stall door. Nightmare looked quite pleased with himself as he entered his home. "Ah, this is most satisfactory."

Daydream sighed her agreement as she too entered than turned back around to face me. "Please, don't worry, Grace. I promise you shall receive answers soon. You just need too..."

"I know, let the song guide me. I will, Daydream. But I need answers with words too and the song doesn't have those." I closed her stall door.

"Yes, it does," Nightmare said, poking his head out over the half door that Hunter had just shut.

"Huh?"

"Remember Hunter's parchment?" Daydream asked.

"Oh yeah!" A picture of the scroll of words formed in my mind. "There must be more verses."

Daydream nodded. "Yes and that is not the only thing that will have answers. But perhaps Tommy can help you."

"Yeah, I want to talk to him anyway," Hunter said smartly.

I smiled at him and nodded my head. "Sounds like a plan. I want some of that food too."

Hunter rubbed his stomach. "Now there's a plan!"

The four of us laughed together and Hunter and I turned to go. As we walked away, I could hear the three animals talking together like old friends.

^^^^^^^^^^

We walked back into the room just as Tommy was placing down two plates of steaming food. He looked up and smiled at us, before heading back into the kitchen for the third plate. Setting it down, he motioned for us to take our seats. After saying grace we each dug in.

"Tommy," I started looking from my plate of steamed vegetables to Hunter's hamburger, "how did you know I was a vegetarian?"

Tommy smiled at me. "Lucky guess."

"No, it's more than that," I said very sure. "No one would just guess that out of nowhere."

Tommy put his fork down to concentrate on me. "You're right."

I swallowed under his piercing gaze. "Um, so how did you know?" I tried again.

"I don't really think I can answer that right now. But how about I give you some other answers?" Tommy redirected the conversation.

"Any straight answer would be cool," Hunter cut it.

Tommy looked towards him. "Yeah, I can imagine. Well, how about the mountain's story? Would you like to hear his view on this whole thing?"

I nodded eagerly. "Yeah!"

Tommy smiled at me again and this time I had to remember that breathing is essential for life. Man, he was good looking! "The legend is twofold, one the humans from your own world have some recollection of, but the other one, the real legend is told from the animals of the forest. It is their hope.

"In the past, parents use to tell their children to go to sleep and Dream Mountain would send sweet dreams. Maybe your parents even told you. And long ago, the mountain was alive with those dreams. Legend says that the mountain was created from the first dreams. From that moment on, the mountain produced and protected dreams. But that was not all. The mountain was purely good and from it flowed its good magic, which graced the land," Tommy paused, but Hunter wasn't about to let him stop.

"What's 'grace the land' suppose to mean?" He questioned.

Tommy looked at him solemnly. "You saw the land when you came in. The legend says the forest was the most beautiful in all the worlds. The animals lived peacefully as friends with one another and humans. There was a rippling stream that surrounded the mountain and flowed through the land. There was also a meadow that looked like a sparkling sea of green grass. Now, all of that has either changed or disappeared completely."

"But why? What happened?" I asked, even as I noticed the song's distress was adding to my own.

Tommy shook his head. "No human knows for sure. The animals do, but they won't tell. As best I can figure, people grew up. Children became adults and stopped dreaming. And kids started to have harder lives and left childhood behind earlier. Dreams and imagination suffered and so the mountain decided to protect itself."

"By keeping its dreams in itself.... So, it became this dark sentinel mountain, void of the vibrant color and instead took on the grave and jiggered appearance it has now," I elaborated.

Tommy smiled at me. "Exactly."

I felt myself blushing and wondered briefly at my response to Tommy's favorable attention, but Hunter was already on his next question and Tommy turned to look at him.

"Is any of this based in reality?"

"Yes, it's just a different one than you are used too."

"No kidding. This place has its own set of rules," Hunter observed unhappily.

"Yes, but once you learn those rules you can apply them just like you do in your old world."

"Wait! Did you just say 'old world?'" Hunter questioned, eyes narrowed.

"Shoot," Tommy muttered. He sighed, but replied calmly, "Only if that's what you choose."

"Choose? How or when are we supposed to do that?" I asked.

Tommy shook his head sadly and looked at me. "I'm sorry. I wish I could tell you, but that will come later."

"I was wondering when we would come back to that," I sighed. It was so frustrating to get so close to the truth that I longed for, only to get more questions. "What about the song? Hunter and I both hear it, and Hunter has a verse too."

Tommy tuned to Hunter. "Can I see it?"

Hunter looked at him suspiciously, but reached into the scabbard hanging at his side and pulled out the rolled up parchment, handing it across the table to Tommy.

Tommy took it and unrolled it carefully. After he read it, he handed it back to Hunter. "Interesting. I've never heard of verses before, but it appears to have a part in the legend. Maybe the animals know."

"Do you hear the song too?" I asked, following a sudden hunch.

Tommy gave me an approving smile. "Yes, actually. We all do, but while the mountain sleeps it lies dormant in all humans. I believe the mountain uses the song to send its dreams. Or at least, it use too. And not everyone who can hear it hears it to the same degree. All three of us hear the song, but I'm betting Grace hears it louder than either Hunter or I. It is completely part of her." I looked at him amazed that he could know that, but he continued, "And Hunter hears it better than I do. It is the song's choice."

"Who is my sister?" Hunter interrupted anxiously.

"I can't answer that."

"Then you do know her? Is she here? Is she okay?"

Tommy held up a hand to stem the rushing tide of questions. "Hunter, I'm sorry. I don't have those answers. I've never met another human here besides the two of you. But, I didn't have the verse for the song, so I didn't know to look for anyone else either. I can only guess at who or where she might be."

"But you won't tell me," Hunter half-accused.

"It's only a guess. I can promise that the mountain wants you to know. So, in time you will find your answers. Still, nothing is set in stone, at least not yet," Tommy added cryptically.

"Set in stone? But he does have a sister. She is here, right?" I looked at him tired of the constant unanswered questions.

"The song certainly seems to say so, but I don't know for sure. Everything can still change. It's hard to explain. I have the privilege of being the mountain's human guardian, yet my job is temporary. The mountain is protecting itself while it waits. I'm part of that protection. My job will be over when the legend becomes true and the dreams start to flow freely once more."

"You don't know for sure?" I asked confused.

"No," Tommy said simply. He smiled sympathetically at my frown. "Everything I know I have also figured out by myself."

"Wait, then how did you know our names?" Hunter interrupted.

Tommy smiled. "That I did have help on. Daydream and Nightmare have always known your names."

"I'm confused. You said you're the guardian, but you had to figure everything out yourself too. Then how did you get that job? How did you know it was you?" I questioned.

"I stumbled on a natural portal to this world when I was a child. Rougefire found me and brought me here. The unicorns have been like my parents for years. I grew up listening to the animals in the forest tell of their legend. I knew the mountain was waiting for its guardian, but that obviously wasn't me. Since I had no other place to go, I decided to stay and become the temporary guardian until the true one came. The mountain accepted this. Anyway, I can't tell you absolutes because I don't have them. I'm confident in what I do know, but I can't take the chance of misleading either of you."

"Why would that be so bad, especially if it got us a little closer to real answers?" Hunter spoke again.

"If my hunch is correct, you both have a large role to play for the mountain's new life. If I give you wrong information, I could jeopardize that. That's not a risk I am willing to take," Tommy answered.

"What if we are?" Hunter interrogated.

Tommy shook his head. "Sorry, I am ruling on this one, and I am telling you, 'no.'"

Hunter threw his hands up in the air disgusted, but I hesitated.

"He's right," I heard myself whispering.

Hunter turned to me in shock. "What?"

"Can't you hear it? Feel it?" I whispered again.

I had responded to Hunter, but I was looking inside myself and feeling the song giving its own response. Finally I focused back on Hunter. "We have to figure this out on our own. I don't know why, but I know its right. If Tommy told us everything he knows, he would be undermining the mountain." I looked at Tommy, whose eyes glinted with pride in me. I wasn't sure why, but I did know it showed his appraisal and agreement. I turned back to Hunter. "You know from experience the mountain won't let that happen, Hunter. We'll find out everything we need to know, when we need to know it and not before," my voice grew stronger as my confidence in my words grew.

Hunter threw me a look that told me I was right and he knew it, but he was still in protest. The look he gave Tommy wasn't even that nice.

Tommy's stature never changed from one of calm, confident authority. He turned to face me and his features softened. "You guys have learned a lot tonight. You should get some rest. Give yourselves time to process what you know. We'll talk tomorrow and I can show you more of the mountain."

I readily nodded my agreement and rose from the table. Together, we cleared it quickly and then headed to bed for some extremely needed rest.

^^^^^^^^^^

Chapter 5

The next morning I woke up early, much to my displeasure. I crawled out of the warm comfortable bed mumbling about the stupid hour and logic that told me to get moving for what promised to be another interesting day. I hung my pouch around my waist and headed into the main part of the cave. The light from the dark violet rocks gave off a dim light to see by, while the cave entrance admitted the very first rays of the sunrise.

I found myself walking to the entrance. The sun felt so good on my legs as I walked outside and stopped a few feet beyond the cave mouth. Being just above the heavy mist, the sun hit the mist in an array of rainbow colors and bounced back. The effect was like a double sunrise and I lost my breath at the beauty. It was the first real beauty I had seen on the mountain and the first that did not carry with it a scary undertone. I wished I could freeze the moment in its perfection forever. I ached inside to see the rest of the mountain produce and reflect such majestic wonder. The song flowing inside my heart added its own request for the same.

"What do you want me to do?" I whispered not for the first time. "Why have you brought me here?" But the song did not answer beyond the gentle urging that I was doing the right thing. I looked out at the beauty. "Great, and that would be what exactly?"

"Talking to yourself?" A calm, smooth voice spoke at my right side.

I tuned to see the handsome Tommy approach me. I smiled slightly. "No, but it's just as bad." He raised his eyebrows and waited. "I was talking to the song."

Tommy smiled. "Oh, and did it answer?"

I sighed. "Not really. Well, no more than usual."

Tommy nodded his understanding. "It doesn't really help to know the answers will come when they are suppose to does it?"

I shrugged. "Not particularly. So far the only answers I have received have raised more questions."

"That's the mountain's way for now," he replied as he placed a comforting hand on my shoulder. "It won't last. That I can promise."

I tried not to be affected by the way his hand was doing weird things to my stomach and turned to face him. He shifted his hand, but kept it there. "You said last night I have an important role to play in the mountain's new life. How will I know if I am making the right decisions?"

"You will."

I shook my head. "How can you be so sure?"

"I have faith in you," he said simply.

Confused I raised my eyes to look more fully into his soft gray ones. I saw no deceit there, only an honest answer. "Why? Have we ever met before?"

If I had met this man before, I would _not_ have forgotten!

He smiled and lifted his hand to run a finger down my cheek. His voice was calm as he spoke, "I guess I just feel like I've known you for much longer than a single day."

"Oh?" I half-whispered.

He laughed. "Yes."

"Um, any particular reason?" I asked, looking at the ground.

I could hear the smile in his voice as he answered, "Yes."

I looked at him when he didn't say anything else. "And..."

He shook his head. "I can't give away all my secrets."

Have you given away any? Everything Tommy said centered on the mountain, even his position as guardian. "Does it have something to do with you being the guardian?"

Tommy smiled. "You are very perceptive. But don't ask any more questions about my position just yet."

"Why not?" I asked softly.

"Because I would have to insure your silence until it was safe for you to have that knowledge," Tommy's answer went beyond cryptic.

"How would you do that?" I asked curiously, without fear.

Tommy laughed and touched the tip of his finger to my nose. "You don't want to know."

"What's going on out here?" The sharp question came from the door of the cave.

I stepped back guiltily from Tommy, though I wasn't sure why I should feel that way. As I stepped, I turned to face Hunter, but when I went to put my foot down there was nothing there.

I had no time to yell as I started to fall, but Tommy was quicker and pulled me back to safety and into his arms. I gasped for breath as I tried to comprehend what had just happened. Tommy was saying something and rubbing a soothing hand over my back, which was actually more distracting than soothing. Somehow I knew Hunter had joined us and was questioning me. But I couldn't make sense of it. I took a deep breath and focused on the song's and Tommy's attempts to sooth me. I realized slowly that I wasn't frightened, just surprised that it had happened. The knowledge allowed me to step back from Tommy calmly.

He kept his hands on my arms and asked, "Are you okay?"

I nodded, but realized they both needed to hear my voice. "Yes. It just surprised me."

My steady voice must have surprised them, because they shot each other a look of astonishment, before smiling at me with pride.

Just then Daydream thundered out of the cave with Nightmare and Rougefire right behind her. "What happened? You were in danger."

I looked at her shocked. "How did you know?"

She gave me an overbearing patient look. "Grace, I always know when you're in danger."

"Oh," that was all I could think to say.

"Well, since we are all here, why don't we head to the portals now? It's the next thing you are going to want to see," Tommy informed us all.

"Food first," Hunter demanded.

The unicorns nodded in agreement. Tommy smiled. "All right. We should pack a lunch too."

"How far away are they?" I asked.

"You'll see," Tommy replied, as he headed back into the cave.

"Daydream?" I turned to her, but her only reply was a smile. "Why do I get the feeling this is going to be very interesting?"

"Because it will," Daydream said matter-of-factly.

Hunter groaned. "Isn't everything?"

"Good point," I responded as we headed in.

Forty minutes later, all six of us were outside again. Each unicorn carried a sack with supplies like rope, food, and I was pretty sure a dagger or two, which made me wonder what Tommy thought was going to happen on this trip. Each person carried their own pouch with a personal set of supplies, including small food items.

I patted Daydream's neck and looked at Tommy, who stood a few feet in front of me, expectedly. "So, when will the mystery be over?"

"Is it ever really over?" Tommy questioned back with a smile. "This part ends now, though. The portal system is located above the mountain in the clouds."

Hunter snorted. "What are we going to do fly there?"

"Have you got a better idea?"

"On what?" Hunter exclaimed. He glanced at me. "Did I miss seeing the airplane on the way in?"

"If you did, so did I," I muttered.

Nightmare shook his head, from his place on Hunter's left and huffed. "There are none of those monstrosities here."

"Okay..." I said slowly. "Then how are we flying?"

Tommy smiled. "How do you think?"

I was thoughtful for a moment. "In some stories unicorns can fly."

"Nightmare, now what are you hiding?" Hunter asked, only half-threatening.

Nightmare sniffed. "I'm hiding nothing. You never asked."

Hunter gaped at him while I turned to my own unicorn. "Daydream?"

"Yes, Grace?" She asked sweetly.

"Am I supposed to command you to grow wings or something?" I asked sarcastically.

"Sort of," was the short answer.

"Well?" Hunter growled.

"How well do you know Greek mythology?" Daydream asked.

"Pretty well," Hunter and I answered at the same time. We looked at each other as the light dawned.

Both of us stepped back and in commanding voices called, "Pegasus wings!"

Within seconds, wings unfolded from both unicorns' backs. When they fully extended they easily reached nine feet. Nightmare's were black on top with silver and purple underlining, while Daydream's were whiter on top and rainbow coloring beneath.

"Wow," I whispered as Hunter exclaimed, "Oh, yeah!"

"Now, you know our secrets. You may use these abilities separately or together it is always your choice. If you wish for use to use them but remain invisible, simply call out what you want," Daydream explained.

"Pegasus wings invisible!" I called out immediately as Daydream's wings disappeared. I looked at her. "Can you still fly?"

In answer, she took off to into the sky with her mate right behind her. The two preformed circles and danced in the sky, before finally coming to land gently in front of us again.

"Show wings!" I whispered as the wings appeared again. I smiled. "Pegasus wings hide." Daydream folded her wings at her side and they melted into her back. "That's amazing."

"I know," Daydream stated.

I had to smile at her obvious self-satisfaction.

"Let's get going." Tommy drew our attention back to the task at hand.

He had I both called out, "Pegasus wings!" And Daydream's wings were back and Roguefire's appeared.

Hunter, Tommy, and I climbed onto our winged unicorns and within seconds were in the air. Flying on Daydream's back was the most freeing and exhilarating experience. My trust in Daydream allowed no room for fear, even though I was in the middle of the sky, with nothing but a flying unicorn between my butt and the mountain below. The wind was cold the higher we traveled and it moved faster, but it never hampered our breathing. I looked over and saw from Hunter's face that he thought the fact we could breath oxygen normally up here was wonderful. I couldn't tell how I knew his specific thought from his face, but I knew without a doubt I was right. I laughed and enjoyed the thrill of this freedom flying as I put my hand through a soft cloud.

The ride lasted most of the morning. Suddenly, right in front of us was a thick cloud cover. Tommy and Rougefire disappeared into it. I gasped amazed as Daydream and I followed with Hunter and Nightmare right behind. We popped out on the other side and hovered over a large cloud.

Below us the cloud spread out as far as I could see. When we were underneath the cloud it looked solid, but the view above was a completely different story. It looked like it was full of rainbow colored holes from midnight black, to sky blue, pink, forest green, purple, sea green, and deep blue.

"Oh my," I said.

"Just wait, Grace. This is nothing yet," Daydream answered as she dropped to land on the cloud.

"Is this cloud going to hold us?" Hunter protested as Nightmare dropped beside Daydream.

"I guess it will," I answered as nobody fell through.

Tommy laughed and dismounted. He walked over to us calmly. "Yes, the cloud is quite solid. These holes are the Cloud Portals." He held up a hand to forestall Hunter's questions. "Hang on, Hunter. I'm going to tell you all about them.

"There are three types of portals. The first are the Stationary Portals. Those are doors from one world to another that never change places, such as the portal in the forest that you both used to get from Earth to Dream Mountain's world. The second type is called the Summand Portal. These are commanded and come whenever the person who called it is and go wherever needed. Finally, there are the Cloud Portals. These start here and go into certainty worlds at any point in time that is needed. These portals are also used to monitor each world that they are for."

"And you know this how?" Hunter questioned.

"You're just going to have to trust me," Tommy replied calmly.

I nodded, knowing I already did. "Who can call the Summand Portals? Who uses them?"

Tommy sighed. "A better question would be who controls them. The person who controls them can give whoever they want permission to use them."

"Okay, obvious question, who is that person?" Hunter asked.

"You don't know?" Tommy mocked. "I'll let you figure it out. But don't you want to see inside one?" He changed the subject smoothly, as he walked to the nearest portal. "Come look."

I glanced at Hunter, then shrugged, and joined Tommy. Kneeling down, I leaned over the edge of the hole slightly. I looked down and almost fell in at my shock. I was looking into a forest, a very lush green forest to be exact. It looked young, but it felt older somehow. I gasped in amazement when a golden stag raced below me. It leapt gracefully over small bush and around the large trees, as if it and the forest were one. Only a few seconds later a band of men armed with bows and arrows crashed into my viewing frame. They looked around nosily, while a few tried to shush them. All were big men, each one looking like he owned a blacksmith shop, but without the respect.

I didn't bother to wonder where the old time description came from, but leaned in slightly to make sure they didn't shoot the stag. Of course, there was no chance of that with all the noise they were making. What I had failed to notice was the edge of the Cloud Portal was not as firm as the rest of the cloud. In fact, it wasn't firm at all. It had the consistence of, well, a cloud.

^^^^^^^^^^

Chapter 6

I realized I was falling at about the same time I realized I wasn't in any danger. My hand went through the top of the portal as if it was going through the top layer of Jello that hadn't firmed underneath. I was halfway through the portal when it dawned on me that Tommy hadn't really tried to stop me. I wondered briefly why, before going back to analyzing my fall.

The entire decent was like falling through that Jello. It was fast, but not fast enough that I ever felt out of control. That was when I decided to tray falling feet first instead of head. So I laid out flat, stomach down, and then pulled my knees up to my chest, that made me go faster and the treetops were getting closer now. I pushed my feet down quickly and just as I got them almost fully extended they hit the trees. I'll never be able to explain how I missed all the branches, but by now the unexplainable was no surprise.

I landed gently as if I had taken a small step instead of falling from the sky. The thought made me look up, but the portal I had come through was either invisible or to high up to see. That surprised me, because it had seemed so close to the trees when I had been using it as a viewing globe.

I looked around curiously. It looked like a normal forest to me, not enchanted, like the one around Dream Mountain. The forest did have the feel of being older, and the trees were slightly larger, indicating this was true. The forest was alive with animals and movement and I immediately looked for the stag. I scanned the area in front of me, where I thought he'd disappeared too, but I didn't see him or the ruffians chasing the golden beauty.

I glanced up again to the portal then shrugged. If I was stuck, I could at least explore. Maybe I could find the stag and help too. I moved slowly through the forest, surprised at my ability to walk without making a sound. It was a talent I had always wanted and suddenly it seemed like I had been born doing it.

A slight movement to my left caused me to glance that way and I saw a golden hue move slightly. So, that's where you are hiding, boy. And just where are your not so friendly friends? Hmmmm?

A thunderous crash coming back towards me answered my question. I felt, rather than saw, the stag move from the left to behind me. Now, if the men wanted the stag, they'd have to go through me, like it or not.

The band of about seven men halted abruptly in front of me, bows at the ready. My heart was beating fast, but I schooled my face to give off a calm unruffled expression. At least, that's what I hoped it was.

"You seem to be in a hurry," I spoke first.

"Out of the way, girl," the largest man in the group spoke, waving his bow at me.

"Or you will do what? Hurt an unarmed girl? What are you after that's so important?"

"None of your business, girly," he growled. "Now move."

"Actually, I like this spot. I think I'll stay. Why don't you and your little buddies go play bows and arrows someplace else?" I was fairly sure the words were coming out of my mouth, but I had to wonder who was speaking them. Had I completely lost my mind? There were seven very large, intimidating men standing in front of me, ready to let arrows fly, and I was challenging them as if I had all the authority in the world. I must have cracked.

The men standing in front of me must have thought so too, because they enjoyed a good laugh. Finally, the leader spoke again, "Enough. It's getting away. Move or I shoot."

"You don't want to do that," I stated calmly.

"Oh, I do..." he said, pulling back on this string.

At this range, not only could he not miss, but that thing was going straight through me.

"No, you don't," a new voice said from my right.

I turned to see a calm looking Tommy surveying the scene. How did he get here? I wondered even as I realized it didn't surprise me to see him.

"Of course, I could be wrong. After all, if you're hunting the Golden Stag you must not care if you anger Artemis. But then, if you hurt one of her daughters too, well, I wouldn't want a furious goddess after me. Especially, not that goddess," Tommy said mildly.

"Her... um, daughter?" One of the men in the group sputtered.

I shrugged. "I did try to warn you." What was going on? Artemis? Where was I? Ancient Greece?

"There are easier ways to get that money," one of goons commented, before taking a few steps backwards and then turning to flee. His friends were right behind him.

I spun to face Tommy. "What is going on?"

But Tommy was looking to our left. I turned to see the Golden Stag approaching slowly. His hooves and antlers were gold and his fur was a deep brown. His eyes were gentle and intelligent and he was as tall as me. I took a step forward with my hand outstretched. He lowered his muzzle and let me stroke it gently.

"You're welcome, friend. Be safe now," I whispered.

The stag nudged my hand up with his muzzle as if he was answering 'okay.' Then he turned and disappeared into the forest.

I turned back to Tommy to see him shaking his head at me. "Can we avoid any more adventures until you fully realize who you are?" He asked with a slight smile.

"Apparently I am Artemis' daughter," I responded.

Tommy only shrugged. "Adopted. Come on, let's go back."

"Hold on, you just raised a whole new bushel of questions," I spouted.

"And if I answered even one, I'd raise that many more. Call Daydream."

"Daydream? Where is she?" I asked looking around, figuring she'd come with Tommy.

"Up at the Cloud Portal watching. She can hear everything you say," Tommy answered.

I shrugged, why not? It wasn't like anything was normal anyway. "Daydream, come!" I called, though not too loudly, just in case there were more men with bows and arrows around.

It didn't seem to matter how loudly I called though, because only a few seconds later I could spot Daydream coming through the tops of the trees. She circled down avoiding breaking any tree limbs. How I have no clue. She landed gently in front of me.

"You called," she stated.

"Um, yeah," I said, completely distracted by way too many events too quickly.

Daydream laughed. "Come on, Grace. Climb up and we'll go back through the Cloud Portal."

I nodded, looking around slowly. If this was Ancient Greece, I wasn't entirely sure I wanted to leave before I met quite a few people.

"Don't worry, you'll be back soon enough. Promise," Tommy smiled and without further explanation put his hands on my waist and lifted me onto Daydream's back, not an easy feat mind you. I'm not heavy, but I'm certainly not light either.

Within seconds, he was behind me. I had trouble focusing on anything but his hands on my waist, when he poked me in my side. The action caused me to jump on Daydream's back.

"Hey!" She complained, jostled.

"Sorry, Daydream." I muttered, patting her neck. I glanced around again. "I guess we can go."

Daydream bobbed her head and Tommy's arms wrapped around my waist holding tight. Daydream took off and spiraled up. I had to gasp for breath, though if I wanted to be honest it wasn't because of the take off that I lost it in the first place. We continued up, so the trees became smaller and smaller and the ground began to look like a patchwork quilt someone's Grandmom would have made.

Daydream followed her own path. She went through clouds, sometimes cutting from one cloud and into another. Inside one very large cloud, she suddenly shot straight up. I looked above and saw a circle above us that shimmered oddly. It was defiantly still inside the cloud and yet it looked like it was the top of pool water. Only seconds after my mind had made the analogy we were through. It didn't feel like plunging into a pool, but like going through that not-quite-firm Jello again.

We had arrived back at the cloud portal entrances. Hunter was standing waiting with his arms crossed and a look of defiance on his face. Though I had no clue what he was defying against.

We landed and Tommy slid off and helped me down. I spun around to face Hunter.

"Did you see that?" I exclaimed.

"Which part?" Hunter asked darkly, but he nodded yes. "I could watch everything from here. It was weird. You were different too," he commented.

I shook my head. "Yeah, I know. I felt so different. Like I was someone else almost."

Nightmare snorted and I looked at him suspiciously, I turned to Daydream. "Want to tell me something?"

"Not that I know of," she responded with a thoughtful, but defiantly amused expression.

"Well, somebody had better explain something!" Hunter demanded.

"What do you have against a little adventure anyway?" Tommy asked.

Hunter shook his head. "Nothing. I love adventure. And if it were just that this would be sweet. But mystery I do have something against. I like answers and this place is one big question," Hunter paused looking around. "I mean, look at this place! We are standing in the middle of a cloud that has portals to lots of other worlds! How amazing is that? But I don't get how. This whole thing is one hundred percent impossible."

"Yet you believe it or you wouldn't be here," Tommy remarked.

Hunter looked at Tommy then to Nightmare. He put a hand on Nightmare and stroked his neck. "Yeah, I do. Remember, I hear the song too. And that along with everything inside me tells me to believe, despite my questions."

I smiled at him. "I'm glad. I wouldn't want to do this without you."

Hunter gave me a curious look. "Why?"

I shrugged. "You have great questions. I wouldn't understand half of what's going on, if not for you. I know it seems like I hear the song more and understand it better, but I don't, not really. I just fully believe in the song. Plus, I feel like we're in this together. After all, we are both searching for our place here and because of our families. You for your sister and me because of my grandfather."

Hunter nodded. "You're right. Sorry, guys, if my attitude hasn't been the best. Being trapped by the mountain for so long kinda soured my mood and compounded the questions."

"The mountain trapped you? Getting aggressive, huh? No problem, man. I know the lack of answers is frustrating, but I guess you know firsthand the mountain won't let you get answers before it's time," Tommy replied in a voice that said he was sorry.

"Yeah, we know," I answered for us both. "Maybe you can answer this. If that portal leads to Ancient Greece, where mythology is real, than do the other portals lead to places where the same is true?"

Tommy grinned. "Yes. Remember all dreams and imagination come from the mountain?"

"Yes," Hunter and I answered together.

"Well..."

Hunter and I looked at each other for a minute, suddenly Hunter exclaimed, "Comic books!"

"What?" I asked, even as Tommy laughed.

"TV shows and movies too?" Hunter questioned.

"Sure. They each have their own, but at some places they intersect. Like for the characters that exist in New York City."

"Or Gotham and Metropolis?" Hunter asked as he raced over to a portal to look down.

"Or Gotham and Metropolis," Tommy agreed, even as Hunter moved to look into a second and third portal.

"What?" I asked again as I joined Hunter.

"Look," Hunter said pointing into the portal he had stopped at.

Below, in the Cloud Portal, I saw New York City. Suddenly, a flash of red and blue swung by leaving a string of webbing in our view.

"Oh!" I exclaimed as it dawned on me.

Hunter turned to grin at me. "Think about it! It's awesome! Every comic book, TV show, movie, ect had to get its start somewhere. And it came from Dream Mountain."

"They all really exist. And we can go to every one!" I exclaimed thinking about the awesome ramifications this could have. Suddenly I turned to Tommy. "Wait! Didn't you say I was Artemis' daughter?"

Tommy nodded and I barely noticed Daydream shoot him a glare.

"That means I have a back story in that world," I felt the song inside me humming happily and it was moving faster too, like it shared my excitement. "Just as if I've been there before. Of course, I haven't but that doesn't mean anything in this place. So, I could have a real story there, but when I go I can just slip into it..." I had to stop, my mind was swirling so fast and my amazement knew no bounds. I looked at Daydream. "But how? How is it possible for it to be so...so..."

"Ready?" She supplied.

"Yes!" I exclaimed.

Daydream, Nightmare, Rougefire, and Tommy all looked at one another.

"I think it is finally time," Daydream said, as the others agreed.

"Time for what?" I asked confused, but still highly excited.

"Come on, let's go to the top of the mountain. There's something there you are going to want to see," Tommy replied, instead of answering.

"Come on, Hunter!" Nightmare yelled, looking over at his partner, who was still close enough to hear, but was obviously not paying attention as he stood looking over yet another Cloud Portal.

"I found it!" He yelled excitedly.

Nightmare shook his head and trotted over to Hunter with me right behind.

"Hunter, we are going," Nightmare spoke again.

Hunter shot him a 'no way' look. "We can't! Look, I found a portal filled with bats in a cave! I want to check it out!"

I came up to look in with him. It sounded like fun to me, but Nightmare was shaking his head.

"No, you will have plenty of time to explore all the Cloud Portals and each one's story as long as you like later, but now we must go," Nightmare ended forcefully.

"Party pooper," Hunter muttered.

"What did you say?" Nightmare demanded, nostrils flaring.

"Grace got to go," Hunter complained, rather than repeat something that would cause Nightmare to truly become his name.

"Grace wasn't suppose too, "Daydream stated calmly, coming up to us with Tommy and Rougefire.

I smiled sheepishly then looked back to the portals. It had been fun, so different and exciting. Surely no one could really begrudge Hunter his chance. And of course, I would have to go along too, having done it before.

"Ow!" I yelled as I abruptly doubled over and hit the cloud's surface as the pounding rush of the song filled my ears and hammered my body. It was too much to stand against.

"Grace," Hunter called, reaching out to me, before he too collapsed.

We both lay panting on the cloud's ground.

"Okay, we get the point," Hunter managed.

"We're going! We're going!" I gasped.

Slowly, the song retreated to its gentler humming. Hunter and I stood up even more slowly. I held my head in my hands trying to keep the headache down to a minimal.

I managed to glance at Hunter, who looked like he'd been run over by a train. "Impatient, isn't it?"

Hunter nodded, and then winced. He looked at Nightmare. "So where are we going again? Never mind, explain it on the way."

^^^^^^^^^^

Chapter 7

Nightmare filled Hunter in on our previous discussion while we flew. Luckily with all of Hunter's questions and Nightmare's numerous attempts to dodge them kept both occupied until we pushed through the upper layer of clouds. The clouds lay out in a blanket underneath of us and right in front the mountain broke through.

This time we could see its summit, which was a high rounded peak. The black purple color of the mountain was stronger above the clouds, and gave them an eerie purplish glow. Tommy skirted above the cloud blanket and when we got closer I could see the little alcove that was on the mountainside. It was about six or seven feet above the clouds and another twenty below the summit. There was hardly any room for the three unicorns to stand.

Tommy landed first and Rougefire backed slightly into the alcove, allowing Daydream to follow him. She was half in and half out of the archway, when Nightmare landed. I thought for sure the Nightmare was going to fall off and have to take flight again, but amazingly he just fit on the solid ground.

"Everybody off," Daydream commented happily.

I slid down and waited for Hunter to come to stand with me. I gave him a smile that he returned before asking, "So, what am I still missing?"

I shook my head. "Whatever it is I'm missing it too. This place shouldn't be big enough for all three unicorns."

"Magic or just more unexplainable," Hunter commented and I nodded my agreement.

"Come on you two," Tommy called from further inside.

Hunter and I walked in to find the room was much larger than we had thought. It was about half the size of my bedroom in the cave. There was room for us all to stand together, without being uncomfortably close. Ahead of us was an upward ramp, but where it led I couldn't tell. Tommy caught my gaze.

"This is it," he said with a gentle smile. "You have to go up the ramp now and your questions will be answered."

Hunter looked at him suspiciously. "What's the catch?"

"You go alone," Nightmare answered his partner, sticking his head in the archway beside Daydream.

"Alone?" I questioned, looking at Tommy then Daydream. "What do you mean alone?"

"We will stay behind you, you have nothing to fear. But remember I once told you that you had to earn this in order to claim your destiny and that I could only support you, but not tell you everything?" She waited until I nodded. A talking horse telling you about your destiny wasn't exactly something you forget. "Well, that time has come. You have been earning you way all along, learning as you go, but this is the final step and in this you must do it alone. I can no longer answer your questions."

"You haven't exactly answered a lot of our questions," Hunter pointed out. "But what about me? What part do I play in all of this?"

"You are the same, Hunter. Your destiny lies up that ramp. You have to go get it now," Nightmare responded.

I looked at Hunter then turned to look at the ramp. So this was it? This ramp and whatever lay at its end was what the song so wanted me to find? I could feel the song tingling through my body. It wanted to sing out loud for the world to hear. It was almost physically lifting me up, not onto the ramp, but into the sky. And I wanted to follow.

I reached over and took Hunter's hand without really thinking about it. He gave it a squeeze and when I looked at him, he smiled encouragingly. We were in it together. Whatever happened up there, even though my new friends couldn't give me answers, I wasn't facing it alone. I would never be that way again. While the others couldn't come with me as Hunter could, I knew they would still be watching everything that happened and waiting for me to return changed. I swallowed. Changed. I had no doubt of that anymore. Whatever was about to happen at the end of this ramp would change me forever. Was I ready for that?

I squeezed Hunter's hand. Yeah, I was and it was time to prove it. I walked forward and as my foot hit the bottom of the ramp the song moved faster, showing its' excitement. Hunter stepped beside me and together we climbed.

^^^^^^^^^^

The ramp rose steadily and it didn't take the two of us long to figure out we were on the way to the summit. I wondered if perhaps it was protected from anyone trying to approach it from the sky. That would explain why we had to use the ramp.

"Look," Hunter muttered, pointing ahead of us with his free hand.

"Um, is that supposed to be there?" I asked.

Ahead of us was a solid wall. The tunnel itself wasn't that big, Hunter just barely made it through without ducking, so it couldn't have been taller than seven feet. Hunter and I could easily pass though side by side, but two horses would just barely make it, and if one was claustrophobic, forget it. So, needless to say, seeing a solid purple rock wall in front of us was not encouraging.

I signed. "Okay, now what? Is this some kind of riddle?"

Hunter shrugged. "Could be, I guess." He squeezed my hand, then dropped it and walked up to the wall. He put both hands on it and pushed hard, but with no reaction. Next he ran his hands up and down it.

"Looking for a release?" I asked and he nodded.

I headed to the tunnel's left side and did the same. We had to go mostly on feel, because the only lighting was the dim purple light the mountain gave off. We searched for a good five minutes before Hunter took a step back.

"We're missing something."

"Yeah, a door," I responded, wondering what he could be thinking.

Hunter shook his head. "No, I mean, yeah, we're missing the door, but we're missing how to find it too."

"Okay..." I let my voice trail off, figuring he could explain some more.

"Well, think about it, we haven't done anything normal on this trip but sleep. So why should we expect the door to be where it should?" He thought out loud.

"You mean look for a trapdoor?"

"I don't know, something like that," he said slowly, thinking hard.

I looked back at the obstacle in front of us. It was blocking us from wherever we were suppose to get too. You would think there would be directions or something. But, then there had been more feelings than directions on the whole trip. I smacked my forehead.

"Duh!"

Hunter looked at me. "What?"

"You're right. We haven't done anything normal on this trip. Focus, Hunter, not on the outside, but inside." I grinned.

"The song!" Hunter exclaimed and I laughed. "I can feel it getting stronger."

"Yeah, me too," I responded. "Okay, what's up?"

I closed my eyes and once again focused inside on the song that was my breath. It hummed in me gently giving answers I couldn't understand yet, but for once that was okay, because I realized I soon would understand everything. I felt it flow through me, focusing it from my heart and into my mind, letting it flow from the back of my mind to the front, and letting it vibrate inside me. In only a few moments, it filled me completely.

Gently, it urged me to the wall. I was at it before I fully realized I had moved. The song was moving me or else I was just moving with it. Either way, my hand rose and I felt a cold spot on the stone. I felt Hunter come to stand beside me and knew he too had felt the song's directions. With my eyes still closed, I felt the stone warming beneath my fingers. The song's humming moved through my fingers and I could feel the stone moving. I have no idea how it happened, because I wasn't pushing the stone, but more like it was reforming around my hand. I knew it was the same for Hunter.

Slowly, I opened my eyes and gasped in amazement. Before me, the solid wall was now separating. It looked like it was melting away to form an archway. The place where my hand still pressed was on the right of the new doorway. Beyond the open arch was a magical scene.

I took a step to the left and stared. Through the archway was the summit. The mountain directly in front of me was flat, but about ten yards away the mountain rose again forming a taller pinnacle shaped almost like a throne, but there was no seat. It rose to form a sharp triangular peak. I could see the pulse of the mountain's purple glow from in it and surrounding it softly.

"It is pulsing at the same rate as the song," Hunter murmured from beside me.

I nodded, not able to speak.

"I think we need to go there," Hunter added when I said nothing.

I nodded again, trying to form a coherent thought, past awe struck.

Hunter shook his head at me and grabbing my hand pulled me forward. I stumbled, but quickly took up his pace. We walked together to stand in front of the peak.

It was a jagged pulsing purple rock. I shook my head at the description, but it was the best I could do. The funny part was it had this regal feel to it as well. My hands were suddenly sweating and I released Hunter's hand to wipe both of mine on my pants. I felt so small suddenly. What was happening?

I had no idea what to do, so I did the only thing I could. I looked to the song. Again it flowed through me humming along and bringing a gentle peace with it. Whatever was about to happen, it was right.

I looked again at the mountain peak and took a few steps closer. It didn't really look different closer up, but I held out my hand to it. "I want to see your true form, not the shell you show. Please, let me see the truth."

The song sang happily and I watched as once again I could see without my eyes, but with my heart and mind. The harsh jagged look melted away and in its place was the smooth gleam of soft violet gems. It was beautiful. Then I noticed something inside the gems, something the held a different look and a different color.

I reached out to it, but it was inside the actual peak and beyond my reach. I frowned annoyed. I knew I should to be able to reach it, but for some reason I wasn't allowed.

"Hunter, can you see it?" I asked not taking my eyes off of my discovery.

"I think so, do you see something inside the stone too?" He asked.

"Yes. How do we get to it?"

"Maybe we are not suppose to yet," he commented.

"You sound way to patient. I know I'm supposed to get to that."

"I think it is meant for you." He paused. "Grace, listen! Hear the song? Is it me or does it have words?"

Words? I listened more closing to the humming song. It seemed to me to be the same as always. I was about to tell Hunter that, when I did notice something different. I could feel it in the back of my mind. It was as if the humming of the notes was actually voices. Hunter and I stood silently for how long I do not know. But I do know that as we stood there listening, the truth began to grow clear. I didn't really hear the full words until the verse that Hunter had on his scroll sang its way into my heart. I recognized the words and a smile came to my face. It was familiar and suddenly words and music came to light.

"God up above gave the mountain a job

Protect the dreams of His world in love

A passion became the mountain's own

To serve God in the realm of fantasies right."

"Dreams of the mountain forever abiding

They are freeing and flowing

Breathing fantasy and light

The dreams of the mountain's right."

"Then came the doubts and the disbelief

Our mountain falls to ruin

How can the forest stay alive

When the world rejects the majestic call."

"Save us and reunite with our hearts

Where did it go wrong to allow such misery

Our happy dreams fall to nightmares

As people demand your light and life depart."

"Dreams given so freely on wings

Believe in the joy they can bring

Hear the whispers of their love

Fill our minds and hearts with hope."

"You have not forgotten, oh Mountain,

You have placed God's plan in motion

To reunite our hearts with dreams

Our forest and meadow will once again gleam."

"The twins reunited will bring peace to the land,

Sister and brother united for our cause,

With goddess and hunter our world, Dream Mountain,

In happy abundance forever will live."

The song sang itself through twice and the second time I found myself singing along. A few seconds later, Hunter's voice joined mine. I knew the tune so well, the words slipped easily into place. If I hadn't known better I would have said we had been singing the full song since the day of our births. But then maybe we had, even if only in our hearts, and perhaps our dreams.

I listened to the words of the song as I sang. The first verse struck me as I sang that God had played a large part in the story; yet He had received no credit from me. It was as if I were really listening to God's story. How the world had rejected His love and chose instead to fill their world with darkness. He had given the mountain a job to do, but it could not do it on its own. And in the very mountain's song He had put His own metaphor. I had left God behind a long time ago, because He had not seemed relevant to me. But, if He cared enough to put a reminder of Himself even in protecting dreams and fantasies, I could find time to search my grandfather's lessons for the God of the Bible. After all, a God who would give a mountain power to protect dreams and fantasies was worth looking into... and thanking.

I turned my mind from the unexpected thoughts to focus on the Mountain's story. It was a story of how God had brought the Mountain to life and given it a passion and desire to serve Him and protect the dreams of the worlds. Then it told of the Mountain's desire to share those dreams. How people forgot to believe and the effect on the Mountain and those it protected. It sounded as if the land itself or the animals were singing the song as they cried out to restore the land and dreams and protect them forever. Through the twins, sister and brother, peace and happiness would spring alive again and Dream Mountain would live forever.

The song was true.

I held out my hand to the mysterious thing captured in the peak and as we sang the peak began to peel back. Slowly, as the words grew stronger the treasure inside was revealed. As it melted away the song came from inside the peak as well. It cycled through again, just as strong, but I stopped singing to watch. It was amazing to hear the song with my ears now, instead of just with my mind and heart, it flowed through and around us binding Hunter and I to Dream Mountain. A noise behind me caused me to turn for a moment to see Daydream, Tommy, Nightmare, and Rougefire standing behind us.

Daydream had tears in her eyes as she spoke to me. "We heard the words and could not stay away. The song called too strongly."

I smiled gently at her. "You should all be here. Look," I turned back around with a gentle sweep of my arm to indicate the newly made place in the peak. While the peak stood firm, where was once a solid wall, a dais jutted now out. On top of that were a bow and a single silver tipped arrow. Behind them was an outfit, not of armor, but it had that look of medieval flair. The top was two pieces. The outer wear was sleeveless and a shimmering green trimmed with gold around the neck and arms. Underneath was a long sleeve skintight shirt that was a darker jade green. A miniskirt the same color as the top with gold trim hung beneath and inside that were skintight pants of the jade green from the longer shirt. The ensemble was amazing. All the pieces hung above the dais suspended in midair. I could only guess that it was the song that held them up, that or pure magic.

"Look," Hunter whispered, pointing to above the outfit with its bow and arrow.

Written in the gemstone in a slight arch were the words:

DIANA MISTRESS OF DREAM MOUNTAIN

I stared silently at the words.

"The Roman goddess of the moon and forest. Her Greek name is Artemis," Hunter said softly.

"That's me," I spoke softly, staring at the words, the name. My gaze slid down to focus on what hung on the dais and then back up.

"You?" Hunter looked at me questioningly, but then nodded. "I know."

I turned to face him. "We are the twins."

"You're my twin sister."

"How? It doesn't make sense."

"I don't know, but it's the truth."

I smiled at him only a little shell-shocked. "Disappointed?"

He smiled and shook his head. "Not a bit. You?"

"No, we already knew."

"Yeah," he agreed.

It almost seemed anticlimactic. He had been searching so hard, only to find that I had been with him all along. I had... I had a twin. I had a brother! And with that the shock wore off and the excitement took over.

"We're twins!" I yelled.

Hunter laughed and I sprung across the few steps separating us to give him a large hug. He held me close and squeezed hard. It felt good to hug my brother. I had never known I was missing one and never understood that a part of me was with him, but we had connected right from the start. Now I understood how I knew where he was when we had first met, and I knew why I could read his thoughts and expressions so easily. Even without fully understanding we had the bond that only twins have.

Hunter gave me a squeezed and then released me. I stood back to smile at him.

"Wow," he said.

I nodded. "It's hard to believe and yet not hard at all. But how did I never know? Are we twins from our own world or just from here? How could this be kept from us?"

"I don't know. But for once, I'm not sure it matters. We have each other now. Our parents probably did what they thought was right. Maybe one day we will find answers, but we have questions to answer here as it is."

I nodded. "That's right. We are going to bring peace and abundance to the land forever." I turned to look at the dais quizzingly. "And that is suppose to happen how exactly?"

I stretched out my hand to the dais and could feel an energy crackling around it. I could almost see it too. "That answer is here."

I looked to the words again. "I am Diana. I am the Mistress of Dream Mountain."

I could feel the power of the words as I spoke them. And then I could see the energy around the bow and arrow glowing. The song leapt up in me and grew stronger from around the dais. And I knew I was to command it, just as I had Daydream to change.

I looked to the sky and raised my hand above my head. "I am Diana, Mistress of Dream Mountain!"

Energy soared around me and a brilliant white glow surrounded me. It only lasted for a few seconds, but I could feel the change take root inside me. I was filled with belief of hope, joy, love, and dreams. Suddenly, I understood that it was the ability to dream that enabled all of those feelings to live and thrive in the hearts and minds of people and animals everywhere. For with that belief came the power and knowledge of Dream Mountain. When the glow was gone, I stood holding the bow high above my head and the arrow in my left hand at my side. My old clothing had disappeared and instead I wore the clothing that seconds before had been suspended on the dais. I had become Diana, the true Mistress of Dream Mountain.

^^^^^^^^^^

Chapter 8

"And my job is finally finished." Tommy's voice commented from behind me.

I turned to see him smiling at me. "No, you are the guardian of the mountain still. I just supersede you."

Tommy shook his head. "With you and your bother in place I am no longer needed, Diana."

"But what is my place?" Hunter asked from beside me. He looked back to the dais with in confusion. "This is all about Diana. Not about me, why am I even involved?"

I smiled at him. "For the same reasons that I gave you earlier, Twin. I can't do this without you." I paused and listened. Something inside me was feeding me answers, knowledge that I had not had before. I knew that it came from Dream Mountain and carried through me on the wings of the song. Somehow, when I claimed my place as the Mistress of Dream Mountain I had become permanently connected to it. Now, I followed its leading. "Listen to the song, Hunter. It is waiting for you to command it."

Hunter frowned, but closed his eyes and focused. I gasped when I saw new words written in gemstone appeared on the bottom of the dais. A smile grew on Hunter's face and without opening his eyes, reached out a hand in front of him and called out the words written there, "Theron, Master of Dream Mountain!"

From the dais a new rock grew, pushing the words up so that they moved to under my own name and title. Just as quickly as the rock grew, it melted away to reveal a new set of clothing. They disappeared in a blinding white light. I shielded my eyes and when I lowered my hands a gentle glow surrounded Hunter. I couldn't see through it, but I could hear Hunter's laughter.

"Now this is more like it!" His voice came from within the glow. A second later, a gleaming sword sliced the glow in two and Hunter stood there with the sword in hand. His clothing had also changed. He had on what looked like dark forest green breeches and a tanned leather shirt. Both molded to his body and looked like they would be perfect for in a fight, which I had no doubt he would be in several. Especially with the way he was expertly and happily swinging his sword around. "I could get use to this."

I laughed. "You and me both, Theron."

He stopped swinging the sword and looked at me, "Theron, huh?"

I shrugged.

"Well, I can handle it. Why give me a second name though?"

"What do you mean?" I asked.

"Well, the song says hunter and goddess. That's my old name and your new one," he pointed out.

"Theron is Greek and means Hunter," Nightmare supplied.

"Really? Cool. My name really stayed the same then. It just got older!" Hunter grinned

I laughed. "I have this feeling that we are going to have many names from now on and just as many identities. Remember the Cloud Portals?"

"Hey! That's right! I have some unfinished business back there," he cast Nightmare a dark look, but Nightmare seemed completely undisturbed.

I turned to Daydream. "So, now what?"

Daydream laughed. "Do I look like the Mistress of Dream Mountain? You tell us what is next, not the other way around."

I looked around at my friends all of whom were gazing back at me. This was not something I would have predicted. Tell them what to do? I didn't have the first clue!

"Diana, are you still trying to figure this out?" Daydream chided me gently.

I looked at her with raised eyebrows. "I'm missing something yet again."

"Are you?" She asked.

I really had to break her of that habit. "Look, I'm the Mistress now. Isn't this what I was supposed to discover? Can't you give straight answers now?"

Daydream simply looked at me. It was Tommy who eventually answered. "Look around, Diana. Finish the song."

Finish the song? I sang quietly. And as if it was waiting the answering line came "Our forest and meadow will once again gleam." I looked around with new eyes. The dais and peak shown like purple gems, but the area around still held its dark disturbing hue. And below us, the clouds were so thick that I could not see anything below them.

"The Mountain. It hasn't been reborn," I murmured.

"But why?" Hunter asked. I still thought of him as that, even though I had accepted the change in my name so easily, when it was time I knew I would call him by his second name.

"I'm not sure," I walked to the edge of the summit and looked down at the cloud blanket. What was I missing? It should have transformed. It should be beautiful, stunning even, yet it wasn't. Had I gotten something wrong or was I just not seeing what was there?

I knelt down and felt the cold stone beneath me. What is it? What is wrong? Why are you still guarding yourself? Wait, that was it. You are guarding yourself, but that is my job. Isn't it?

Come on, I silently urged the mountain. The world needs the dreams you protect. You created the song, didn't you? Or did God do that? I don't really know, but whether you or God, you know this is what He wants. I mean, He gave you the job and got the first verse in the song! It was placed into the hearts and minds of the animals and it guided Hunter and I here. I know you know what it says, the beauty it tells of. Why are you still harboring that inside yourself? You need to reunite hearts with dreams or imagination fails, I pleaded. Laughter, light, hope, joy, love, beauty... Why did it not want to release the dreams?

It could only be the mountain was still unsure. It thought it still needed to be a sentinel to protect itself. And then, suddenly, I knew. I had to choose, I had to promise. It wasn't enough to claim to be the Mistress I had to believe in Dream Mountain's mission as my own.

I stood and walked over to the dais, placing my hand on top of it. I motioned to my friends with the other. And they joined my in a circle. I felt the song humming, and for the first time ever, questioning what I intended to do.

"Shh," I soothed it. Then spoke to my friends and Dream Mountain. "I am the Mistress of Dream Mountain, not because my grandfather would want it or say it was God's will, and not even because it is destiny, but because it is right. To protect dreams, fantasies, imagination and the life they bring is the greatest task I could ever accomplish. It is an honor to know I was chosen for this task. But though I readily accept this charge, I can't do it alone. I will need each of you to help me.

"I won't force you to accept my challenge. I know it is going to be dangerous. We must not only protect Dream Mountain, but also the worlds that its dreams have created. We will be battling the enemies of those worlds as well as those in our own. Each world holds a different challenge and adventure and Dream Mountain is the control base for everything. There is power in dreams and these worlds that many will seek out. And I don't mean in a good way. I don't know exactly what we will come up against, but I promise never to back down."

"I'll be at your side the whole way," Hunter promised, placing his hand over mine.

"You know I will never leave you," Tommy avowed from my side, placing his hand over Hunter's. I caught the look in his eyes, his words had a double meaning. It would be interesting to find out what that was, but I knew we had time.

Daydream placed her horn on my shoulder. "I was created for you, Diana Grace. I'm proud you are ready to do this and I will be there and protect you as you do. I am your partner."

Nightmare and Rougefire each placed his horn on his own partner's shoulder. Both vowed to protect and stay by them.

"Then, I, the Mistress of Dream Mountain, along with my friends, vow to always protect Dream Mountain and to take his mission as our own. Together, we are the guardians." I smiled at them. "Let the adventures begin."

Purple flares suddenly shot out from the dais. They flared out and soared like shooting stars across the sky. Their tails twinkled with purple stardust that fell down onto the cloud blanket. They sprinkled the blanket and then fell through. The six of us rushed to the edge of the summit and watched in stunned amazement.

It hit the mountain first and each place the dust hit became smooth. As the mountain's true violet hue began to shine forth the ragged edges melted into purple liquid that flowed everywhere the dust had missed. The entire effect caused the mountain's rocks to become gem smooth and glow softly.

As the purple dust continued its magical fall it sprinkled down on the heavy fog that had been the sentinel mountain's constant companion and dissipated it gently. Below sparkling green waves of grass peaked through on the left of the mountain's side. On the right side of the mountain the forest spread out in a haven of deep green leaves. A river, I never remembered crossing, now flowed gently around the entire mountain and neatly separated the forest and meadow into halves. The purple dust caused the whole scene to sparkle as if fairies were giving it their blessing.

And then from the woods and meadow the animals appeared. They poked through the grass and gathered at the edge of the forest. Birds of hundreds of colors took to the sky. Though they were all far below our place on the mountain I could see each with crystal clarity and knew my new sight came from Dream Mountain. The animals called out joyfully joining each other in a welcoming song for Dream Mountain's rebirth.

I pulled out an arrow and shot it out over the scene. It flew straight and then arched down to land perfectly in the meadow below. Out from the animals a single squirrel raced to the arrow and picked it up waving it high. I laughed and pointed him out to Daydream. She nodded and smiled. I knew it was the same squirrel that had greeted me when I had first arrived in this magical land.

"Look!" Hunter exclaimed, pointing above us.

We all looked up to see a star shining brightly directly overhead, despite the fact it was daytime. I glanced to the right and saw the sun still shining. Tommy put his hand on my shoulder and pointed to the right, there the moon too was visible. The sight was amazing.

"Impossible," Hunter muttered, but he was grinning.

I shook my head. "Not in Dream Mountain. I have this feeling there are many more surprises for us to discover here."

"And in the worlds of the portals. You will discover powers you cannot imagine yet," Daydream added.

Hunter nodded. "Sweet. I can't wait to explore them all."

"You'll get your chance. And then you'll go back many, many times as you make friends in each," Nightmare promised.

"Yeah, you'll want to go back for fun and when your friends call you," Rougefire spoke up.

"Call us?" I asked.

Tommy nodded. "Yeah, we can monitor all the worlds from the Control Center. It's the only room in the cave you didn't see. If there is a problem in any of them you'll know."

"And you know how to do that?" I asked to make sure. When Tommy nodded an affirmative, I added, "And you'll stay to monitor them? You can call us back whenever we are needed and if we need you in one of the worlds we are in, I can send a portal so you can join us."

Tommy grinned. "Sounds like a good plan."

I smiled at him. "We all have a mission as guardians now. We're the best team around."

Hunter laughed at that. "I think we are going to have to be. Maybe that's why Dream Mountain chose us, Sis, and made you the Mistress of Dream Mountain."

I liked both those titles. I agreed with him, but I thought there was something more. "Yes, I also think it is because even when we didn't have a real reason to believe we've always had a child-like faith and never stopped believing in Dream Mountain or what it stands for." I grinned and looked around at my friends. "And we never will."

And at that odd moment it struck me again how Dream Mountain stood as a metaphor for God in some way. I couldn't say I had child-like faith in Him. But just that quickly I decided that on my adventures as the Mistress of Dream Mountain I would also take on the adventure of discovering the very real reality of God.

My friends nodded at my comment and I smiled at them. They would join me on my journey and no matter what happened I knew without a doubt that life would never be the same again. And I was perfectly okay with that. This was where I was meant to be and the people I was meant to be with. I was chosen to live out something I could only dream of and I was so happy. I looked up at the sun, moon, and the single shining star. I had dreamed my whole life, now I was living it. And suddenly I understood. The sun and moon were visible because dreams take place at all times. And the star? The star shone brightly because dreams are destinies and fantasies direct from the stars and beyond. I smiled. They are from Dream Mountain.

^^^^^^^^^^

Epilogue

So, you wanted to know where dreams come from? Well, now you do. It is your turn to choose to believe.

Sweet Dreams!!

Memoirs of

The Mistress of Dream Mountain

Diana Grace Dreamwalker

^^^^^^^^^^

About the Author

Charissa Lees is the executive director of the Solid Rock Youth Center. She served nine years in the Army National Guard, where she met her husband, Shawn. They recently had their first child, Kensie Grace. Charissa has lived in her dream worlds for as long as she can remember. Now, she loves to share those dreams and her love for her Abba through the fantastic portal of books.

More Books by Charissa

Youth Books

_Lil' Sherwood_ – a Robin Hood tale with a surprising LEGO twist

_Taldek's Heroic Tales_ – three tales of heroism with dragons through generations

Novels

_The Guardian Star's True Mark_ – Follow the pirate adventures of _The Guardian Star_ as, Tommy, The Black Panther, and Kiliki, the runaway bride, meet and discover the path God had for them the whole time.

_The Guardian Star's True Captain –_ In the sequel to _True Mark_ , follow Justin as he takes command of the _Guardian Star_ and tries to find his own path as Dabria complicates matters at every turn.

_Aiden_ – He is the oldest sibling of nine and his betrayal enabled them to be torn apart and forbidden to contact each other. Aiden must find a way to train his mind and body and bring them back together, if he doesn't lose his soul first.

E-books following _The Guardian Star Series_

_Conlan's Choice_ – Conlan suddenly finds himself engaged to Breanna to keep her safe and must place her where no one can find her.

_Tristen's Time_ – Tristen had a good business going until he rescued the slave girl, Asha. Now, life just got really complicated.

All of these books and previews of new books coming soon are available online at my blog!

Connect with Me Online

Smashwords:

https://www.smashwords.com/profile/view/Charissalees

My blog:

http://dreammountain.blogspot.com/

Facebook:

www.facebook.com/DreamMountainPress

Excerpt from Lil' Sherwood

I woke abruptly with the odd impression of falling. Shaking my head, I tried to clear the sleepiness from my mind and regain a sense of my surroundings. I yawned as I looked around my familiar room. I had stayed up late into the night building my LEGOs into a castle, neatly setting my men around it to stand guard. My desk was covered with it and on the chair I had built the hideout for Robin Hood and his men. It was my pride and joy. As my eyes swept past the desk, I felt my body go ridged. The hideout was gone! Quickly, I rubbed my eyes, hoping against hope it would be there when I dared to look again. With my eyes closed, I realized I still had this feeling of falling. At the same time I could sense myself getting smaller and smaller. What is happening? I thought surprised. Then, as if it had never happened, the sensation quit and I hit something extremely hard very fast.

"Ow!" I exclaimed in surprise.

What appeared to be a cloud began to lift and in the distance, I could see my castle with men guarding it just where I had placed them. But these weren't toys they were real! At least, they looked real. All at once one of the men spotted me. Before I could move he started to run towards me!

What do I do? This guy doesn't look like he wants to make a social call! I frantically thought. Suddenly my mind screamed a one-word command "Run!"

I turned and ran as fast as I could go, when all of the sudden I was running in a woods. Too scared to stop, I kept going. Suddenly someone grabbed me from behind. I started to scream, but before I could get a proper scream out a hand clamped over my mouth.

"Shh! Be quiet or you'll get us caught," a quiet voice commanded.

I stilled my actions, unsure what to do. The arms loosened from around me, but still held tight. Just then a loud thrashing noise rang out and soldiers rushed past us.

"See, now aren't you glad you didn't scream?" the voice asked.

"Who are you?" I demanded.

"Turn around slowly." I turned around and gasped.

"You recognize me?" he asked.

"You're Robin Hood! Aren't you?" I exclaimed.

"At you service."

"Where am I?"

"Why, you're in Sherwood Forest!" Robin Hood looked at me in surprise.

"Wait a minute! You mean to tell me I'm in the Sherwood Forest the one back in ... the one back a long time ago?"

"I have no idea what you're talking about, but yes, you're in Sherwood Forest."

"Why were those soldiers after me?" I was still very confused.

"They probably didn't recognize you and wanted to question you. Come to think about it, who are you?"

"Well, my name's Kristy if that's what you mean."

"Where did you come from?"

"Good question. I'm not really sure to be honest."

"Great! Well then, I'm going to take you to our hideout, you can sleep there tonight. Tomorrow we'll decide what to do with you."

"Okay. Um, thank you."

"Come on, it's not exactly a short trip."

By the time we arrived at the hideout, all I wanted to do was sit, but when we got there Robin Hood and I where both surrounded by Robin's men and questions. It was hard to make out what everybody was saying. I knew they were confused though, b then a girl's voice said broke through the others.

"Leia! Where have you been?" She was looking right at me.

"Huh?" was all I could say. "Sorry, what did you say?" I managed to squeak.

"I asked where you have been. I haven't seen you since I came to live in Sherwood with Robin."

" Um... I'm sorry. Do I know you?" I had no idea who this girl was. She definitely wasn't one of my LEGOs.

"Leia! It's me, Marian!" the girl said, laughing.

"I'm sorry, but I'm just a tad confused. Where did you say we met?" I asked.

"We have been friends all our lives! Robin, were did you pick up Leia?" Marian asked.

"The Sheriff's men were chasing her into Sherwood. She looked pretty scared and a little bewildered. So I rescued her and brought her here. Did you say you know her?"

"Yes, but I'll explain later. Right now I'm taking her up to my room. Come on, Leia. We can talk more when we're alone."

We walked to a huge tree where Marian opened a door. Inside we went up a flight of stairs before we came to a really well camouflaged tree house. I smiled with relief as I recognized it. This was the main part of Robin Hood's hideout that sat on my desk chair. Finally, I knew something!

"This is your room?" I asked Marian.

"Yes. Why don't you sit at the table and I'll fix some food. Then you can tell me what is going on."

"I was hoping you could tell me."

"What do you mean? How would I be able to tell you?"

"All right. Um, Marian, let's pretend I have amnesia. I can't remember anything. What would you tell me about my life here?"

"Are you kidding?" I shook my head no. I needed to get answers somehow and at this point this was all I could think of. Marian looked at me then shrugged. "Well, let's see. First you are the daughter of Sir Solon and Lady Faith. You were born on the same day as me, June 6th. Our parents were great friends, so we grew up together and came to be best friends. We shared everything with each other. Um...you were always kind, headstrong, brave, and had a touch for people. When I came to live with Robin you were upset but understood why I had to go. You never criticized me, but helped in any way you could. Does that help your memory?"

"Yes, although I am still a little confused. Maybe I really did bang my head." I smiled at Marian and we both laughed. It almost felt good to be there, like this was where I belonged. But how and why? And more importantly, would I ever make it back home? I knew tomorrow was going to bring lots more questions. Questions I didn't know if I had answers for.

