

Elle and The Escape

The Hero Chronicles

By Tim Mettey

Copyright © 2016 by Tim Mettey

All rights reserved.

Published by Kenwood Publishing Group.

KENWOOD PUBLISHING GROUP

www.kenwoodpublishinggroup.com

Cincinnati, Ohio

If you purchased this book without a cover, you should be aware that this book is stolen property. It was reported as "unsold and destroyed" to the publisher, and neither the author nor the publisher has received any payment from this "stripped book."

No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrievable system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without written permission of the publisher. For more information regarding permission, write to Kenwood Publishing Group, Attention: Permission Department, 11060 Kenwood Road, Cincinnati, Ohio 45242.

ISBN-10: 0-9977292-3-6

ISBN-13: 978-0-9977292-3-8
"We are the music-makers and we are the dreamers of dreams."

— Arthur O'Shaunessy

Quoted by Gene Wilder
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

I would like to thank all of the talented people who help make my books sound and look good.
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Chapter 1: Search

Chapter 2: Speak

Chapter 3: Escape

Chapter 4: Keeper

Chapter 5: Forecast

Chapter 6: Saved

Chapter 7: Death

Chapter 8: Wheelbarrow

Chapter 9: Cellar

Chapter 10: Ghost

Chapter 11: Purpose

Chapter 12: Keeper Siegel

Chapter 13: Scared

Chapter 14: Clean up

Chapter 15: Color

Chapter 16: Journey

Chapter 17: Leave

The 2016 Hero Chronicles Writing Contest

GRAND PRIZE: Not in the Pink of Health

FIRST RUNNER UP: A Spark of Hope

SECOND RUNNER UP: Finding Mom

Connect with the Author

About the Author

"Let's do one more circle. I thought I saw Xavier's Sil hanging around Ester's vault earlier. And since we struck out with your sister, Livi, I need . . ." I paused, and then, trying not to sound desperate, said, "I want to try to get some information Nicholas can use."

"I bet Zane and Courtney are heading down for the challenge," Noel responded, ignoring how pathetic I sounded. She was good at that, because I sounded pathetic most of the time. Well, maybe not as often anymore, because I was trying to remind myself I was actually needed. "So there isn't really anything we can do," Noel said in a patronizing tone.

I didn't really care how she felt about any of this. She reminded me constantly I didn't have anything to prove to anyone, but that was easy for her to say. She was an elite Thusian bodyguard trained by Walter. I was just an average nobody.

"And now, if everyone could head down to the arena for the second challenge." James Caldwell's voice rang out all around us. It was as if he was on my shoulder or right behind me, which sent chills down my spine.

Noel put her hands out as if to say, "See, I told you so."

I was tired of not being useful. Nicholas needs a partner who can contribute equally, someone like Genevieve who can take care of him and be useful. A sinking feeling started to well up in my stomach. Maybe I had been right all along thinking Nicholas and Genevieve would end up together; maybe it was their destiny or something.

"Elle, we should go down to the challenge now. We'll have plenty of time to search later; I promise."

I didn't move or even acknowledge what she had said. I was too distracted by the thought of Genevieve and Nicholas being together.

"Elle, did you hear me?" she questioned quietly but firmly.

"Let's look for just a little longer and then we can head down," I said, unwilling to give up on the chance of finding some useful information. I was also not willing to give up on being with Nicholas, at least not yet.

We circled back around toward Ester's vault. Everyone was gone from the floor already, making it feel like some underground medieval castle that had been abandoned for a thousand years. I was expecting a ghost to come down the middle of the corridor.

After searching for another ten minutes, we found no Sils or any other sign of life. Everyone must have been at the Trial. We heard a lot of commotion coming from the center of Valcary Hill, down on the ground floor. The Second Trial had begun.

"Come on, let's go down there and wait for them to be finished," Noel said from behind me.

I began to walk in that direction, but I stopped suddenly. A cracking sound made me flinch. I spun around only to see a black bag being forced over my head. I instinctively remembered what my dad had taught me. I kicked straight ahead and my foot landed between the knees of the person who was trying to take me. My assailant groaned, making me believe I had hurt whoever it was badly. I tugged at the bag and tried to run but something struck my head. Stars flashed and then nothing.

***

"Well, what do we have here?" Xavier's question was the first thing I heard as I regained consciousness. I couldn't see anything, and now my hands were bound behind my back. I was helpless, again.

His voice was cold, but there was a slight excitement in it, as if he was getting an early Christmas present or something.

"Ashlyn alerted me that these two were looking around and asking questions about us," a man's voice answered.

"Very good job, you two," Xavier said, pulling off the bag and removing my hood.

At first the light was blinding, and my head was pounding from having been hit. After a minute, Xavier, Grey and Ashlyn came into focus, and next to me was a badly beaten and battered Noel, slumped over on the ground.

"Noel, are you okay?" I leaned down to her to see if she was still alive.

I saw her take a labored breath, so I stood back up and I turned my attention to our three vile captors. "How dare you attack us? You have no right. While we're here, we're all protected."

"You're half right, my dear," Xavier's cold voice purred. "We aren't allowed to act against fellow Thusians, and Grey has already been punished for what he did to Noel."

I glanced over at Grey and noticed right away he had a bandage on his right hand and it was bloody, as if the wound hadn't stopped bleeding yet.

Xavier continued, "But where you're wrong is this: the rule doesn't apply to a Non, and that's what you are, a non-Thusian. There are no rules against hurting you. On the contrary, there is one rule which permits the extermination of any non-Thusians who find their way inside Valcary Hill . . . and you, my little dove, are clearly here."

"What about saving others? You know, the very reason Thusians were put on this earth in the first place. Your Final Sacrifice. Isn't that why you go through your Realization?"

At first Xavier didn't say a thing. He brushed his blond hair to the side, thinking for a moment. Maybe he was shocked I knew so much.

"Impressive, but that's only what the Council wants you to believe. Anyway, enough of this talk. If you want to die quickly and painlessly, then answer my questions. But if you prefer not to answer, you will suffer at the hands of Grey for everyone to see."

He began to circle me like a lion sizing up its prey. "So tell me, little dove, what are you interested in learning? What are you all trying to find out?"

Noel sprang to her feet. She head-butted Grey hard and used her shoulder to drive him to the ground. He gasped for air, falling backward. Xavier was there so fast, I didn't see him move. He backhanded Noel, sending her off balance. She fell face first onto the ground and didn't move.

"Really, Noel, why try? I think you and my little dove know there's no way to escape," Xavier said. Then he looked back at me and warned, "Don't make me hurt you. I don't want Nicholas to think I mistreated you, because that would not send a good message."

"You're half the man Nicholas is," I spat out, leaning over again to see how badly Noel was hurt.

"I may have at one time agreed with you, but what he has done to the Thusians and our way of life has been a mockery, and for that he will pay, along with the rest of The 4."

I needed to buy us some more time, hoping someone from Walter's security team might be watching the three of them and would find us before Xavier could follow through with his plans.

"Ashlyn, how could you do this after everything your sister has done for you?" I questioned loudly, looking around for anyone who may have heard me.

"Trying to get someone's attention? So smart, little dove. But as you can hear, things are getting really intense down there," Xavier said, holding up a hand to his ear.

Sure enough there were more oohs and ahhs from the arena and a lot of chatter.

"Grey, you and Ashlyn take these two down to the floor and wait off to the side. And then bring them out front and center when I motion to you. Ashlyn, once they're in place, you and Steel need to go and prepare for our departure. Steel is good but doesn't always use common sense when it comes to dealing with others. We'll be ready to leave as soon as we take care of the new Keeper and The 4."

We were being dragged down a long set of stone stairs I had never seen before. Several times I tried to yell or scream, but it was no use. The Trial was growing louder and louder. Ashlyn had a tight grip on my arm so I couldn't even look back or around. Noel was hitting each step with a thud. The sound of it was making me sick, because of the continual injuries she must be sustaining. Grey didn't care who was hurt; he just did what he was told.

"Ahh," Noel groaned like she wanted to say something once we got to the bottom.

I jerked my arm to be able to see her. She had a strange look on her face. What was wrong with her?

She groaned again but this time it turned into a laugh, "Hahaha." In a broken, but not defeated voice, she said, "You two are so pathetic. Do you honestly think you're upholding the Thusians' way of life or even the life of a Seeker? You two are just Xavier's errand boys, oh and girl."

Grey struck her jaw with his fist and blood splattered onto the ground, but it didn't faze her a bit.

"Is that all you got, big boy?" she said, spitting blood at him. "You're a joke. All you're doing is proving my point you mindless, bald albino."

He pulled his hand back to hit her again but stopped immediately when Ashlyn said, "Enough." Her unwavering voice froze him in mid-swing, as if she had spit invisible ice at his arm and it couldn't move forward. Was Grey that scared of Ashlyn? Or was she somehow in charge?

I looked at her face. She didn't seem to have anything else to say; she had said all that was needed. It was amazing how much she and Genevieve looked like one another.

"Stone. Diamond. Blood." Those words shook all of us where we stood. Grey and Ashlyn's faces looked not scared, but unsure of what was happening. There was a sound like hundreds of elephants charging, but it quickly died down. Then a lone voice declared, "And because I'm the Keeper, I dismiss the Council and confirm that The 4 has been completed."

There was no doubt in my mind that Mark was the one talking, but what was he thinking? Was this part of a plan that hadn't been shared with me? Did Nicholas know this was going to happen with Mark? Did he not trust me?

Someone else began to talk at the Trial, but I didn't pay attention because my mind was spinning. I wasn't sure what to think now. Did Nicholas not trust me enough to tell me about Mark taking on the Council? No, he was telling me everything now—wasn't he? Then a voice inside me said, You aren't Genevieve. She's the one for him. It was that little voice of doubt everyone has, but this time it sounded a lot more convincing. My surroundings melted away. Even though I was pretty sure I was about to die, the doubt I had about everything was now the only thing that mattered, spreading like a poisonous plague in me.

Grey was ushering us out to somewhere, and one of them threw the shroud hood over my head again.

By the time I was able to focus on my surroundings again, I realized I was in the midst of all the Thusians and in front of me were Mark, Cora and Nicholas. I wanted to shout to them, but couldn't.

Xavier was out in front of us, pacing around and talking to everyone, obviously loving being the center of attention. His words were muted. That little voice was making me numb, not allowing me to hear, but I still had my sight so I could see everything. I watched Nicholas, committing his face to memory. If this was going to be the last time I ever got to see him, then his face was the only thing I would want to see once I closed my eyes for the final time in this life.

The hood was pulled off my head. Nicholas' face had the same expression I had seen many times before. His face tensed up, exposing the muscles in his jaw. His eyes widened, showing me his beautiful blue eyes I had gazed into so often and fallen in love with each time. He was about to use his Thusians talents, and I could see his entire body stiffen. I was not sure if he would succeed in saving us, but if anyone could do it, he could.

"Someone should pay for the sins against our forefathers," Xavier was saying, as my hearing became clear again.

Grey put a sharp blade of some sort up to my neck. I could feel the cold steel pressing harder, slowly working its way into my skin.

"We're going to kill this non-Thusian in just a minute, but we'll spare the Thusian because we can't act against a Thusian inside these walls. Rules will be rules. This girl will be the sacrifice that is necessary."

I closed my eyes and pictured Nicholas' face. We were under the stairs at Winsor High School. He was watching me eat as he did so often. My stomach swirled with love and care. He had a smile on his face, laughing at me—it was perfect.

I hoped Heaven would be like this for me, with Nicholas. "I love you Mom and Dad," I whispered. "I'll be waiting for you, Nicholas, in Heav—" Before I could finish what I was saying, I was thrown to the side, free of Grey's grip. I was able to turn back to see a blurred Nicholas in mid-air, shoving his knee into Grey's jaw, sending him backwards.

The wind was whipping all around us, causing my hair to become matted to my face. My head was humming, making it hard to figure out which way we needed to go to get out of here. I was still stunned by the fight going on behind us, but I had to be strong for Noel right now. She needed me. As we were fleeing Valcary Hill, she had immobilized several Seekers with ease, even in her injured state. Now I had to come through for her, and at the same time, protect myself. Most importantly, I wanted to do what was best for Nicholas, so I had to get as far away from him as possible.

I realized that Noel was hurt even worse than I had thought, and who knew what we would face out in the open?

"Please, you need to stay with me," I pleaded to Noel, who was barely able to climb. She continued to stumble, getting tripped up on the stairs as we passed the rock to the outside.

I had both of my arms around her, trying to drag her forward toward the bridge. If I could just get us into the woods, we would have some cover and might have a chance to escape. Her legs gave out, nearly pulling us both to the ground.

"Please God, give me strength," I prayed, pulling her up and dragging her to the other side of the bridge.

My plan was to get away from Nicholas, but the farther I went, the lonelier and more unsure I felt about any of this. I knew Noel had a safe house in Ohio, because she had told me a million times, trying to convince me to go. It had never been the right time before, but now it was. I felt like we had to get there. We had no other choice.

I looked back and forth for any Seekers, but luckily there wasn't anyone else around yet. Just then I heard the croak of a large bullfrog, and one of my many childhood fears rushed back to me. What if there were a lot more frogs out here? I shook my head, trying to forget my silly phobia. "Elle," I said. "There are real, life-threatening dangers out here, and you're worried about a little frog." I had to be strong and continue on.

A slow trickle of people began to run out of Valcary Hill, but they were far away from us. I didn't pay any attention to them, because we weren't safe yet. Once we made it to the edge of the forest, I propped Noel up against a large tree, which easily hid both of us from the masses of people now pouring over the bridge. Several Seekers still in their shrouds descended upon the crowd like vultures going after fresh meat. I turned away as the screams for help became deafening. These Seekers were out for blood and would kill anyone in their path. We couldn't stay here much longer; they would eventually find us. But what chance did we stand? I wasn't a Thusian. I couldn't do what any of them could.

"Be calm," I told myself. "Think." I looked around to see what our options were. There had to be some way to escape this chaos.

Behind us, deeper in the woods, were thick vines covering the ground where it began to slope up. And farther on was the way to the little chalet where we had waited before coming down for the Trials. I pulled Noel up. She seemed to have gotten back some of her strength, trying to stand. It was just enough to move us toward the safety of the vines. We ended up in a particularly dense and overgrown part of the vegetation. She collapsed, so I pulled off my shroud and put it under her head. The thicket made her immediately vanish. I laid down too, away from her a little bit. I immediately covered my ears so I wouldn't hear the screams and cries, but it was no use. The despair and hopelessness of all this death were overwhelming. The Seekers were slaying people just a stone's throw away, and there was nothing I could do about it. Tears welled up in my eyes. How I wished Nicholas was here to protect these innocent people. He would make sure no one died at the hands of the Seekers. And here I hid, completely useless, as usual.

My head began to hurt more and more. A stabbing pain behind my right eye began to pulse, making my vision blur. The branches above me were becoming a great big green blob with black and blue spots. I blinked, trying to clear my vision. Then I heard Xavier's voice calling me his little dove. I grabbed my head, squeezing it, hoping for some relief from everything. It did help a little, but nothing could force out the cold, cruel voice of Xavier.

The four of us followed the Sils up a series of stairs leading higher and higher inside Valcary Hill. I was barely hanging on. All I could think about now was Elle and where she might have gone. I kept asking myself if going into hiding was the right thing for Elle after she and Noel were almost killed by Xavier and Grey. I guess it made sense, but I still couldn't help thinking it wasn't the best idea.

"Up ahead," Aldara said, stopping as soon as we entered a large chamber. It looked old and neglected. Several different Sils were on ladders, cleaning cobwebs off of the thousands of books lining the walls. The shelves that housed these books were random and haphazard. The person who had made this room had cut directly into the stone, creating these unbalanced bookshelves. In the center of the room was a skinny tree which reached up and out through the ceiling.

Mark was up ahead, and on either side of him were the large Sils who had been at Ester's vault entrance when Riley and I had gone to gather information. Mark didn't have any expression on his face, just a vacant stare. Actually, he looked as if he had aged twenty years; his face was very gaunt. He was holding a slim metal sheet similar to the one Zane had used down in the TABs headquarters on Vanderbilt's campus. He was swiping back and forth on it.

"Before you come any closer," Mark said, holding up his hand, "you need to know that no matter what you do to us, things have already been set in motion." He began pacing back and forth, looking frightened.

"What are you talking about?" Riley questioned in a thick Irish accent, making sure everyone knew he meant business. No one moved. Mark stopped pacing.

"I have Elle and Noel, and if Nicholas doesn't do exactly what I ask of him, they'll be executed."

Once again, my body was consumed by fire, but this time, I didn't act on it. I controlled my body, which was screaming and yearning for me to take out everyone in here including Mark, but something stopped me.

"Are you kidding? This has to be a joke," Genevieve said with rage in her voice.

"This is no joke, and the fact that Nicholas hasn't stopped us means he knows I'm serious."

"What do I have to do?" I spit out, still controlling my body, hoping I wouldn't break.

"Follow me." He motioned for us to follow him.

The large Sils surrounded him and followed closely, and Aldara appeared and joined us. She was looking at me constantly as we walked, sizing me up, I guess trying to see if I was planning to do something.

I knew Mark, or at least I hoped I did. He would never hurt Elle, or anyone for that matter. He might be the new Keeper, but he was still the same scared roommate who didn't know what he was doing half the time and the same kid I had rescued during the 10-10 Earthquake.

We ventured through a series of corridors of polished stone. The passage was dimly lit, but the reflective nature of the stone made the walls seem as if they were glowing and alive, moving with each step. As we walked on, the walls lost their shine and became dull and very jagged. The corridor became narrower, with only room for two to walk side by side. Genevieve was right beside me and found my hand, holding on tight. Her hand was clammy and cold. I wasn't sure if her nerves were for Elle, me, herself or all of us. But whatever the reason was, I felt the same way.

Mark stopped in front of a small wooden door with rusted metal crisscrossed across it like crust lattice on a homemade apple pie.

"Nicholas," he said to me, "you need to go into the next room. I cannot tell you what is in there or what you have to do. But this is what must be done. Once you're finished, Elle and Noel will be released."

"You expect him to go in there?" Cora uttered, sounding like she was now about to act on her motherly instincts.

"I'll do it," I said, trying to reassure her and myself at the same time. My talents were still aching to take over, but for Elle's sake, I had to focus on doing whatever was on the other side of that door.

One of the large Sils took out a massive key ring filled with old metal keys, each one different from the next. He picked a shiny red one, stuck it into the center of the door, and turned it with a jerk. The door groaned as if it hadn't been opened in centuries.

"Once inside the room, you'll sit," Mark said.

Riley grabbed my arm and whispered, "We'll be right outside. If you need any help, say the word and we'll get you out."

I nodded and went into the room. The door shut. I blinked several times, and the white fire I had experienced so many times before descended over everything, illuminating the room. It was small, no bigger than a walk-in closet. There was a wooden bench to the left of the door, and across from it was a wall filled with holes. Something was familiar about the different openings covering the wall. I sat down and began to wait. I counted the holes, which were emitting a white light. There were nine of them—three on top of three on top of three—laid out in a grid, but not evenly spaced.

Other than the seat, there was nothing else in here. Then a loud sound burst through one of the holes like a fog horn with a deep rattling tone. A variety of sounds started coming at me, mixing together like one big soup of noise. It continued to get louder and louder as if each of the holes were a mini speaker blaring its own music.

I tried to cover my ears, but it didn't help. Everything was too loud. What was I supposed to do now? What if I couldn't do whatever was expected? Would Elle still be—? But before I finished that thought, the sounds ceased except for a single one. It was in the form of a lady's voice. She was singing a beautiful, angelic melody. I had never heard anything like it. She sounded like an opera singer, each note clear and precise. My mind calmed, and my surroundings fell away. I was in a different place with the notes holding me there; I felt bliss. A burst of bright red blobs exploded in front of me, like a firework filled with paint. When she hit and held another note, the splatter became blue. As she continued, different colors burst around me. If the note was quick, so was the color, and if it was louder and more intense, the color was too. It was remarkable, and I felt empowered.

Then a second voice, a male one, accompanied her. A duet. This produced double the amount of colors, mixing in large swooping swirls. After what seemed like hours, I began to notice a scene like a black and white photo coming through the colors, taking on a life of its own. It was Elle and Noel. They were safe, but something was wrong. Before I could focus on them, I saw Zane, Livi, and the TABs sitting at Vanderbilt in some sort of meeting. Then another scene appeared showing Ester and the Divine Council meeting in the Thusian Vault in West Virginia; everyone looked scared. Next, I saw Mark and the Sils walking around the room I had just come from, looking at different screens and constantly talking to each other. Scene after scene appeared and then disappeared. My head felt like it was being filled with information. It went on for so long. Right when I thought I couldn't take any more, there was nothing. The music and the visions stopped as abruptly as they had started.

I relaxed and found myself lost in all I had seen. I leaned back against the cool wall behind me and the room went quiet and dark, void of anything. My body was sore, and each muscle made its presence known. I must have been in here for hours. I stood and the door opened next me.

Mark, Cora, Riley and Genevieve were peering in.

"Elle and Noel are not here," I said. Everyone smiled, including Mark, who was nodding his head. I walked out of the room, rubbing my stiff neck.

"Nicholas, I'm sorry I lied to you about Elle—they were the first to leave Valcary Hill—but it was the only way I could convince you to go in there and come out okay. Bernard warned me not to let you experience that room unless you had your Thusian Talents on the surface, and this was the only way I knew how to do it."

"Are you okay?" Genevieve asked, coming in and putting her arm around me, bringing me out of the room.

"Yes, I feel fine. A little sore from how long I was in there, but besides that I'm doing—"

"What do you mean, how long you've been in there for?" Cora asked.

"You know, for the hours I was in there," I said, rubbing my neck.

"You've only been in there for five minutes," Riley said.

"It feels like you've been in there for hours, Nicholas, but it's only been seven minutes and twelve seconds, to be exact," Mark said. "You've just used a different talent called Forecasting, and this room helped you use and focus it. But before I explain more about that, we should go up and relax and get the latest report on what havoc the Seekers have caused and are causing outside of Valcary Hill."

"Wait, you said Bernard warned you?" I asked.

"All in good time. Nicholas, I promise I'll tell you what I can, but not yet."

I knew Noel and I weren't safe; we had to move. The screaming had died down a little bit, so I sat up just enough to look around. I saw a cloaked figure very close to us. The figure spotted me. Now what do I do? I thought, panicked.

I quickly got to my feet and moved steadily away from Noel, hoping the person wouldn't spot her. Wherever I went, the cloaked figure followed slowly and methodically. What was I going to do? I couldn't take on a Seeker or even a wanna-be Seeker. I ran to the tree line at the edge of the clearing leading back to the drawbridge. I tried to calm my breathing, sliding down behind a tree that luckily had large roots which allowed me some cover. I still felt as if I was going to hyperventilate and pass out. I peeked out and saw the person was no more than ten feet away from me. I leaned back under a thick root, and suddenly the person grabbed my hair and pulled me out of my cover, sending pain shooting through my scalp like it was on fire. I pulled away, breaking myself free, and got to my feet, stumbling.

"Hm, hm, hm," the cloaked figured laughed, sounding pleased.

I grabbed for whatever was closest to me on the ground. My fingers wrapped around a rock, and I swung it, making contact with the person's head.

"Owwwww," a man yelled with a deep booming voice, pulling off his shroud. I had hit him right below his eye. It was turning a nasty purple color with a couple of trickles of blood coming down. He kicked me, catching me on my side, knocking me to the ground. It felt as if a rib or two had cracked. I grabbed my side, hoping it would help me breathe.

I was now in the clearing closer to the bridge. My head was spinning from the pain, and I could see my assailant was bearing down on to me.

"Please don't," I pleaded as I crawled away. Nicholas, where are you?

"I can't believe it. I have Nicholas Keller's beloved right here," the man hissed, sounding more like a weasel than an actual man. "You caught Fleming with his guard down, hitting him with that rock. That's not an easy thing to do to Fleming McGregor. Xavier will for sure ask Fleming to be part of The 3 now, especially after his pet, Grey, failed so miserably."

The fact that he was talking about himself in the third person was creepy and scaring me more than I already was. I turned around and began to crawl away as fast as I could. I needed to make my way back to Valcary Hill. I needed Nicholas.

He stepped on my leg, stopping me in my tracks. I let out a cry. My muscle felt like it was being separated from the bone.

He kicked me again, flipping me over. His face resembled a pit bull, wrinkled with a large jaw. His smile revealed he had several missing teeth, but a single gold one stood out.

He pulled out a Belos from under his shroud and grinned. "This is going to hurt a lot," he laughed.

His hand went into the sky and I closed my eyes. My parents and Nicholas flashed into my head once again. "I love you all," I whispered.

I heard a sound like someone cracking their back, and then there was a thud. Someone picked me up gently. The smell of this person was familiar, like old pipe smoke, but I wasn't sure who it was. I couldn't lift my head to see who my savior was, but I could see behind us. Fleming McGregor's lifeless body was lying right where he had fallen.

I was carried back into the forest and laid down next to Noel. My rescuer took my shroud from under Noel's head and covered us both.

My injuries prevented me from looking around, which was probably a good thing because it kept me from getting caught again. I blacked out minutes later, my body forcing me to shut down for repairs.

Everything I had absorbed while I was Forecasting was at the front of my mind, but I couldn't separate all of it. So I concentrated just enough to push it all to the back of my mind, allowing me to stay here in the present. I tried several times to see Elle and Noel, but it was no use.

We arrived back at the room where we had been talking to Mark, and it had been transformed. It was lit up now by crystal clear screens of varying sizes and locations. Different Sils were monitoring and pressing on them as if they were playing some type of video game. Some of them were talking into small boxes similar to the one I had seen Ester use when she was speaking with Sidney and Michelle. One of the female Sils approached Mark to give a report.

"Keeper Siegel, we have confirmed the number of deaths at 77: 5 Sils, 15 suspected Seekers and 57 Thusians. No one who died has any true significance to us. Just—"

"Are you kidding?" Cora broke in. "No significance? Try telling that to their families." She was livid, angrier than I had seen her in a long time. Why wouldn't she be? The Sil had just finished saying that 77 people had died and that they didn't really matter. This was all because of Xavier and his Seekers.

"I think you all should go back to your family vault and take some time," Mark said, motioning for Aldara, who came right over to us.

"Please show them down to their family vault and make sure they have anything they need. We'll catch up after things have died down," he said. Then he shook his head, realizing what he'd just said.

"Mark David!" someone screamed from down the stairs. A few seconds later, Mark's dad and mom appeared. Mayor Siegel's shroud had been ripped in several places, and he had a noticeable cut on his left cheek, which seemed to be weeping. His mom appeared to be untouched, but her eyes were bloodshot and mascara was running down her face.

"What have you done?" Mayor Siegel barked. "You need to call back your guard dogs and get everyone back in here to safety. The Sils keep pushing more and more innocent Thusians outside, and it's a bloodbath. The Lands family and the Clarks are out there right now. I was with them, and the only way I got back inside was to tell the Sils your brother Ryan is in the Med Vault. How can you do this?" He dropped to his knees.

"Please, son, drop the defenses." His mom came up to him, placing her hand on his face. "You need to help all of us," she pleaded motherly.

Mark's face twisted, showing that he realized what he had done.

"I never meant to hurt anyone. I wasn't thinking clearly. Bernard said . . ." He stopped and walked over to one of the large glass screens, gazing into it, looking upset.

Both Cora and Genevieve were watching the screen closest to them. They too looked shocked and upset by what they saw. I saw Grey's pale white skin flash by on one of the nearest screens. Somewhere above us he had cornered a small group of Thusians in the ruins, maybe the Clarks or the Lands. He was on the drawbridge over the moat, daring them to try to get past him. Behind Grey were several mounds littering the ground. They were people, his latest victims that had tried to escape to freedom but didn't make it.

Maneuvering through Valcary Hill was easy on my way to confront Grey. My body was on cruise control, happy to be able to let loose going after him. I entered into the round ornate room where hundreds of people were standing, huddled together, surrounded by Sils, probably waiting to be pushed out to their deaths. I exited by the large boulder we had used to get into Valcary Hill on our first day here and stood outside. A small group of people saw their chance and fled back inside behind me.

The sun was bright, several beams piercing through some clouds; I squinted and, as if my eyes knew what I needed, the light became muted everywhere. The colors were vivid, taking on a luminous quality, as if it was a color-enhanced picture. I was discovering new talents, but this was not the time to marvel.

"So the One's heeere," Grey yelled to me from the bridge, slurring the last word, which brought a smile to my face.

"Yes, I will always be in your way, no matter where you are."

"You didn't get here quite in time," he said smugly, looking back at the death he'd left.

"I want to say sorry about your jaw. I'm sure it didn't feel good when my knee met it. I'm here to finish the job."

He growled at me, but he didn't advance, sizing me up, waiting to see what my next move would be. My Thusian talents were completely at my disposal and I was in control of my body and the situation. I closed my eyes for a split second and it felt as if the world stopped. When I opened my eyes, the familiar white fire had engulfed everything around me. All of my senses were in harmony with my mind, recording everything from the wind direction, the smell of burning wood and even a feeling that Cora, Genevieve and Riley were about to join me. Also, I was able to see how truly hurt Grey was, from the broken jaw I had given him earlier to the large gash on his right thigh. Several small drops of sweat were on his brow. He was in agony. It felt amazing to be able to gather all of this information, and so quickly.

If you can do all of this, then where's Elle? Are you sure she's safe? a small voice asked from somewhere inside me. And that's when the first wave of nausea hit me, as if I was hit by some invisible force right in the gut. I reached for my Tic Tacs, but I didn't have any. My surroundings returned to normal; the sun once again blinded me. I rocked backward, taking a few steps before regaining some composure. Grey took a step forward, sensing something was wrong, but Cora was behind me, and Genevieve and Riley took their places in front of me. They started to talk to Grey, but I didn't understand what they were saying. The voice asking about Elle was now growing louder and louder. I began to have a panic attack. I bent down to one knee and dozens of Sils came pouring out onto the bridge.

Through the group of them, I saw Grey retreating backwards, not willing to try anything with the added support. I stood up, feeling better now with them beside me.

***

Once we were back in the large round room, hundreds of Sils were taking care of those who remained, escorting many of them back into Valcary Hill past the acacia tree. Mark saw me and rushed over.

"I'm so happy you're okay, Nicholas," he said, sounding apologetic.

"Mark, why did you—" I began to ask, but was interrupted when he held up a hand to make me listen to what he was about to say.

"Why did I have the Sils push everyone out? I wasn't thinking clearly. I only had what Bernard had told me to do in those damn journals. I was trying to show the Council what power I had. I now know it wasn't the best idea."

"No kidding, you idiot," Genevieve said. "You got a lot of people hurt and killed."

I took a deep breath. "This isn't on Mark. It's my fault. My actions have led us to this point. The only other person to blame now is Xavier."

In a thick rich Irish accent Riley said, "It's not your fault. This is the life of a Thusian. Do we honestly think this situation is any worse than when my parents were alive or back a thousand years ago? This war was waged a long time ago and now we finally have a chance to end it."

I was being jerked back and forth, kind of like being on a roller coaster, but I was pinned down, and it was completely dark, each turn and bump catching me off guard. A thick earthy substance was covering me, as I jostled along. I tried to move it off me but I didn't have the strength. The pressure on my body was too much to bear. It was crushing me slowly, like being buried alive. As I tried to see what was weighing me down, I realized I was next to someone else. I listened for a moment and the person next to me was groaning every so often when we hit bigger bumps. I knew those sounds of agony; it was Noel. We both were being moved somewhere by someone.

I tried several times to move some part of my body but still wasn't able to. I tried to scream out, "Help me," but my voice was unable to make a sound, which frightened me. The weight on my chest kept me from making any sound. I began to hyperventilate until silver and gold stars appeared in front of me, then my skin was covered in sweat, and then nothing.

***

"Where do you think you're going?" A hoarse male voice exclaimed, pulling me out of my darkness. I took a shallow breath.

"I'm doing my chores. What's it to you?" a girl's voice answered sarcastically, just like Genevieve would have.

"Grey wants to make sure no Thusians in the vault get any help from you little Sils here at home. He doesn't care what you think you are now and who you report to. You are still nothing, just property, and you will serve us Seekers. Don't forget that, or we will liquefy the rest of you."

"Really, you idiots couldn't take care of yourselves without us. You go get Grey right now then, if that's how you are going to be," she said defiantly, waiting for a response.

He hesitated, then said, "You want me to go get him?" He stumbled over the question, sounding baffled.

"Yes, I do. And then you can explain how you stopped me from completing my chores in the cellar."

"You are her? The one who works down there? Ghost Girl?" He said, sounding alarmed.

"Yes, I am. Now go get him," she demanded.

"No, I'm sorry, I didn't know. Please go ahead, and do what you . . ." His voice trailed off because he was getting away from her.

"That's what I thought, you idiot," she shouted and then we began to move again.

I wasn't sure if I should be scared or happy that we were being helped by this Sil. Especially one named Ghost Girl?

We began to move more quickly. Noel groaned loudly, reminding me that I could barely breathe. And I doubted Noel was doing well under these circumstances.

My heart began to pound, my skin felt as if pins were poking me everywhere, kind of like when my foot would fall asleep after a long car ride, but this was excruciating. The next thing was the onset of severe nausea. I began to gag but I couldn't get a breath to completely purge. Instead, the acid was trapped in my throat, burning. A thought of Nicholas made me find the strength to endure it all, at least for the moment.

"I suggest you stop squirming like a little worm, unless you want us to get caught. I have to get you both to the cellar, and then we can go from there."

We began to bounce up and down faster. But then we came to a halt and Ghost Girl said, "I'm sorry for this, but I will come and check on you as soon as I can. If anyone comes down the stairs, hide. I have laid a sack with some supplies in the corner; hopefully it's all still dry. And no matter what, be brave. Nothing will hurt you down there, I promise."

We were flung forward and slid down a chute of metal. I reached back, hoping to slow myself down, and caught my ring fingernail on something. It bent backwards, feeling as if it was being pulled off. I grabbed hold of my hand as we continued down into a sludge. Water definitely was the main part of the gooey substance. The smell was like rotten eggs and a skunk. I got to my knees and pulled Noel up out of it so she wouldn't drown. I looked up the chute right as the door was being shut and locked with a series of chains. It was dark down here; only a couple of rays of lights came from the door. This wasn't a cellar. It was more like a dungeon where people are tortured. And what did she mean by nothing could hurt us down here? Why would she say that?

I stood up, still holding my hand to keep my throbbing finger from hurting any worse. I tried to see around us. My ribs and leg were still hurting, but I was not as bad off as Noel. When my eyes started to get used to the darkness, I noticed several pairs of beady eyes looking back at me. I was surrounded by rats.

It took all of my will power to keep from screaming. Suddenly I couldn't feel any pain. I began to shake violently, and my arms started to itch. I looked down, and I was covered in white bumps, hives. I was frozen. I couldn't move. Where was Nicholas when I needed him? Why was I more scared of frogs and rats than getting caught by Xavier?

"Noel," I whispered urgently, hoping she would respond to give me some needed courage, but nothing.

I took my eyes off the growing number of vermin and looked around the room, hoping to find something to distract myself.

The cellar was massive, at least two stories tall. Above us were long wooden beams spanning the whole ceiling, holding up the floor above us. Almost the entire room's floor glimmered a little, showing it was covered by the goo. Maybe one of the far corners was dry, and I hoped that was where the supplies were. But first I had to face my fear.

I looked back at the rats. None of the little statues had moved yet. Out of the corner of my eye, I checked to see how Noel was doing. The cut above her right eye was bleeding again, and her nose was caked in dried blood. She jerked, like when you fall asleep and wake up suddenly. She slid off to the side, back into the goo. I needed to move her to a safer spot.

"Elle," I said out loud to myself, "you need to help your friend."

Unfortunately my body didn't react to my words. But a thought did the trick: This was my idea to leave Nicholas, and for us to go to Noel's safe house. If I want to see my family, Nicholas or anyone else, I have to be brave. Would Genevieve be scared?

I took a deep breath and pictured the mice from Cinderella. That story was in one of the books my mom used to read to me when I was little. I pictured the chubby little mouse and the thin one helping Cinderella make her dress for the ball. My foot moved a little and then so did my other one. The sludge that clung to my shoes dripped off the side as I moved slowly with high steps. I grabbed Noel underneath her arms. Before I moved her, I wanted to see where there weren't as many rats. I slowly looked around and thankfully they were gone—well, maybe not entirely gone, just out of sight.

I tried to pull Noel up out of the goo, but she was dead weight, unable to do anything to help me. So I had to drag her toward the other side of the room, hoping to find a dry spot or ledge that we could use to get up and out of the wetness. Surprisingly, the liquid made it easier to drag her to the other side, kind of like sliding on wet ice.

About halfway across the room, the floor began to slope up gradually, which caused the goo to become shallower. A little farther on, the ground was just a wet surface. Noel groaned as I pulled her along. Was I hurting her more? Maybe, but I had to get her out of this, and then I could deal with her wounds and mine. In the corner to the right I could see a rotting wooden staircase. If there was any space behind it, it would make an excellent hiding spot for me to think and take care of us, because who knew if Ghost Girl would actually come back. Did I want her to? The way that Seeker sounded when he found out who she was made it seem like we should avoid her. Regardless, I needed to focus on what I was doing now.

It was completely dry behind the stairs, luckily, the highest point down here. Everything sloped up to this point. And in front of us was a burlap bag.

"Okay, let's hope there is something in here we can use," I said to Noel, as if she were conscious.

I pulled out some clothes: simple gray dresses and blouses. The clothing was identical to what Aldara and the other Sil women always wore. I reached into the bag again and pulled out a brush, some fabric strips and a bottle of clear liquid with no label, which looked like water. I set these items on the ground next to Noel, who still hadn't moved. There was also a large loaf of bread and a big chunk of cheese wrapped in wax paper. The last thing I found in the bag was a jug with a label showing two snakes wrapped around a staff. It looked like the medical symbol, but this was slightly different. It had a rough circle behind it that I had seen a couple of times when Mark was reading Bernard Weathers' journals.

I wish she had given us some sort of light. Would it have been too much to ask for? I wanted a candle or flashlight. It would've allowed me to see around the entire room better, and it would've helped keep those rats away.

A loud thud came from above, sending me to the ground next to Noel. A light cascaded down into the room from the top of the stairs. Then someone began to walk slowly down the long flight of stairs. Each step creaked and groaned as if the staircase was going to fall down at any moment.

I pulled Noel against the wall closer to me. I held my breath, hoping whoever it was wouldn't hear us. My heart was in my throat; I could feel it beating so hard. I closed my eyes, hoping we hadn't come this far only to be discovered.

A person as wide as half the staircase was descending. The light from above cascaded down the stairs as the large round body moved slowly to the bottom. At the last step, the person bent over. I leaned forward to get a better look at what was happening. The person had a bottle and was sticking it down into the sludge, apparently collecting it.

Why would anyone want this nasty sludge? I was surrounded by it and couldn't wait to escape. I closed my eyes again, afraid that if I looked too long, this person would feel my stare and it would be over for us. Then a loud groaning sound like a wounded animal came from the far corner of the room. I opened my eyes and saw large flashes of light fill the room and then vanish. The person ran back up the stairs panting the whole time, moving faster than I thought possible. The door slammed shut and the room went dark. We were alone again in the pitch black with our only companions, the rats and whatever was in the far corner.

"I'm not going back down there ever again; no one can make me. I don't care what we need. We should send down the Ghost Girl," a voice whined from above.

"You will do what Xavier asks, Chester, and—" someone with a much deeper voice commanded.

"Asks? Ha! It's more like a threat, and you know it, Morris," he interrupted. "Aren't you like a brother to Grey? Can't you do anything to get someone else to do these chores? We are doing nothing but sitting around. We should be out there setting up Thusians to die or at least trying to get into Valcary Hill to stop The 4," Chester wheezed, getting worked up and gasping for air.

"Let me remind you of who you are. You aren't part of the 100 Seekers, you are just a Thusian who wants to be, a pawn. If you play your cards right, you may get invited to be part of the 100. And I would never go to Grey to ask him anything, ever. I'm next in line to be part of The 3 and I won't do anything to mess that up. So you'd better bite your tongue," Morris said with his voice going even deeper and sounding resolute.

A door opened and closed.

A familiar voice said, "I hope you didn't go down into the cellar. I would really hate to lose one of you to the flash. Once you see the light she puts out, your days are numbered," she warned.

I couldn't tell if Ghost Girl was serious or joking.

Neither of them said anything.

"Ahhhhhh." Noel let out the loudest groan, scaring me. I grabbed her, putting my hand over her mouth. Her eyes were fixed in the direction of where the light had come from and she had a horrified look on her face. She looked petrified, and for Noel to look this way was in itself frightening. She was one of the bravest women I knew, not scared of anything.

Then she fell to the side unconscious again.

"Oh boy," Ghost Girl said, "You must have made her extra mad when you took some of her elixir without permission. She doesn't like that, you know. I feel sorry for you. Your days are numbered. You might as well fill out your will and go down and face The 4 alone."

"Enough, child," Morris warned. "That's superstition, and you know why we have to go down there."

"Yes, to steal from the Sils. The elixir is only to be used in emergencies. The lot of you go down there all the time to fill up your bottles. You don't need it that often, do you? If anyone abuses it or stores it for later use, the people who use it will die and so will the ones retrieving it."

"Go do your chores, Sil, and leave us be," Morris said.

A door shut and after a minute or two Chester's high-pitched voice whined again, "There's no way I'm going down there again. You can do it yourself; you heard her."

"You better do as you're told. Don't cross them."

"I've figured out another way to gain favor with Xavier," Chester said, walking toward the far corner. I could hear the floor boards creak with each step, as he and Morris walked away, talking in hushed voices as they too left out the door.

For the moment there was no risk of us being discovered. We were alone. Well, maybe not completely alone. We still had the rats around us and whatever had caused that flash. I didn't believe in ghosts, so I knew whatever was causing that blinding light could be explained. At the moment, I didn't really care what it was as long as it kept the Seekers upstairs.

Noel hadn't moved since her freak out. I took out the bottle I thought was some type of medicine. I uncorked it and put some of it on a strip of cloth that was in the sack of supplies Ghost Girl had left us. I wasn't sure if it was for internal or external use, so I used caution and used it externally.

The liquid was thick, like corn syrup, but didn't have any smell to it. I was able to spread it over each of Noel's cuts, which covered most of her body. Some of them probably needed a couple of stiches, but for now I would just have to make sure they didn't get infected and keep them covered.

After I was done with her, I began to clean my own cuts. I wrapped my fingernail that had almost been ripped off in a piece of gauze soaked in the liquid. It made it feel numb and tingly, which was an improvement over the throbbing pain. I then moved onto the rest of my cuts.

I started to feel warm all over. Then a sound like someone whispering in my ear came from the far corner of the room. I looked up and saw a yellowish bright light revealing a silhouette. Were we alone?

Lying in bed was neither pleasurable nor restful. The covers felt like sandpaper and the pillow might as well have been a brick. The only thing I could do was try to think about everything I had learned from Forecasting. The darkness that often surrounded me in my nightmares was present, making me relive a multitude of horrors: everything from Elle's limp body at the quarry to the recent scalding hot water of the spring. All of this was brought on by the panic attack I had begun to have facing Grey, making me unsure of myself again. And when I would finally fall asleep, I would awake alone with no help. I refused to go back to see Mark. I just sat in my room.

Time was in slow motion; days and nights blurred together. My hopelessness became a constant reminder that Elle was gone and I didn't know where she was.

Aldara kept me supplied with food and Tic Tacs. I guess she hoped I would eventually snap out of it. Genevieve didn't visit; she had disappeared entirely. Cora and Riley only came in when they wanted to get information from me, mostly about the Forecasting. Now I knew how Mark must have felt, only useful when people wanted something from me.

"Do you want to see what else you can do?" a small voice asked. It was Logen; he was standing just inside my door, as if he was unsure if he was allowed in here with me. I sat up and smiled at him.

"What are you talking about, buddy?" I asked, and when the word "buddy" passed my lips, I realized it was what my dad used to call me sometimes.

Logen inched closer.

"Logen, you can come in," I said, throwing my legs to the side of the bed, waving him over.

He skipped over to me, leaning in next to me, at ease now.

"People are saying you should be doing more than just sleeping the days away. So... are you going to see what talents you have?" he asked.

"Logen, I'm not sure what they are talking about." Even though I knew, I didn't feel like discussing it with a little kid. "And to be honest, I don't think I want to do much right now. Sometimes grownups need some time to just think, and that's what I'm doing."

He didn't say anything. He put his little finger up to his mouth and tapped it like he was in deep thought, which was pretty cute. I'm sure he was imitating someone he had seen.

"If I was a hero like you, I think I would do hero stuff. Don't you think? You know, so you can save us all?" Then, he bounced out of the room.

I got up and followed him out in the main area of the vault and Cora, Riley and Genevieve were in there eating and talking about something.

"It's so good of you to join the living," Genevieve said, taking a bite of her sandwich.

"Aldara, can I see you?" I said, sitting down and grabbing a sandwich from a platter. Before I had a chance to begin eating, she came into the room.

"What can I do for you, Nicholas?" she asked, sounding formal.

"I need to talk with the Sils who are responsible for the Forecasting Room."

"Why do you want to talk to them?" Cora asked.

"It's time for me to start acting like part of The 4. We need to stop just waiting for things to happen. We need to be proactive in getting prepared to face Xavier, Grey and Ashlyn. We need to train."

I glanced at Genevieve to see if she flinched when I said her sister's name, but she didn't. She was stone faced, staring at me, slowly chewing.

"Wouldn't you rather talk to Mark first?" Aldara questioned.

"No," I said. She didn't move at first. She was processing something, but she didn't say what; she simply turned and left the room.

"Nicholas, I'm glad you think we should start being proactive. I think there's a treasure trove of information here for us to learn. I mean, that Forecasting Room has to only be the tip of the iceberg," Riley said.

He was always in favor of training; it was his go-to. If everything else seemed to go wrong or if we were at a standstill, he would suggest we train more.

"Just so I'm clear," I said to them, "we're going to find Elle first. We'll get her back and then, and only then, will we go after Xavier. People look to us as heroes, which is good, but we need to be a complete team before we can be successful. We're only at our best when we're surrounded by our loved ones. Think about all those times we've had to deal with danger—who has been there? It hasn't always been just the four of us."

Cora stood up and came over next to me.

"I'm so proud of the man you've become," she said, and then turned to face the others. "He's right. We need to find Elle and Noel. We also need Walter, Dane, Piet, and we can't forget about Chase."

"Sure, I guess we should include Chase too," Riley sighed with a smile. "We're stronger all together."

I closed my eyes and images went flying by me, as if I was watching a movie, but every frame was a different picture. Once I opened my eyes, I knew without a doubt we needed to do this. We needed to complete our team, and we would start by finding Elle. She needed me.

"Noel, I hope you can hear me. I need you. I don't think I can do this anymore. I'm broken, my heart aches, and my head is spinning," I said, putting some more water into her mouth, hoping she was swallowing it. She didn't move. Her wounds had healed shockingly fast over the past several days, as had mine. Even my fingernail had reattached. We were almost out of both food and water though, and Noel desperately needed to eat. She had to wake up, because it was beginning to seem like we had been left down here, forgotten by Ghost Girl. And without Noel, I wouldn't dare try to escape this place. How much longer could she really last with only getting caps full of water? Was I really helping, or was she slipping away, further into this coma-like state?

"I'm not a Thusian and I'm not brave like you," I continued whispering to her. "So what now? I told you I wanted to go to your safe house, but if you aren't here with me, what am I to do?" I pulled a stray hair out of her face, hoping she would just open her eyes. "You need to wake—"

Several loud footsteps stopped me from saying anything else. It was the first movement I'd heard above us in days.

"Did you hear?" a monotone male voice asked.

"About what? You need to be more specific, you idiot," a deep female voice responded.

"Mark Siegel, you know, Jacob Siegel's son, has invoked full Sil security. Xavier has instructed that no Seeker should go near Valcary Hill."

"Yeah, so? That doesn't mean anything. Those little Sils wouldn't stand a chance against The 3 if they weren't barricaded in a fortress."

"Maybe," he said. "But the point is: only a Keeper can activate the Sils' defenses, which means everything Mark said about the Divine Council being dissolved is true. The 4 has been formed! The Great War has begun!"

"That's amazing!" she squealed, sounding like a child on Christmas morning.

"Amazing, are you kidding? Bran Shuster's family members were all historians, used by the Seekers for a very long time. He said the war in the 1700s killed hundreds of thousands of people, and this time, who knows how many will die? Maybe millions once it gets ramped up. He thinks it's going to be worse than before. There are now four groups of Thusians trying to gain power: Ester and the Council, Keeper Siegel and the Sils, The 4, and Xavier. We are going to see so much death. A lot of us have been talking, and we aren't sure what to do or where to send our families."

"You coward," she said. "This is what needs to happen: we have to purge the Thusians, and if some Seekers get offed in the process, who cares? It just means they are weak and need to be thrown out with the rest of the bad blood. And the insignificant little Nons don't matter, like the Sils. They die so easily anyway, like little lambs," she said.

I wanted to yell at her. I closed my eyes and a smile came to my face, because some of the Seekers were scared, and maybe there were even more who were frightened by what this meant. And if that was the case, then Nicholas, Cora, Genevieve and Riley could easily gain the upper hand. If Ester and the Council, Mark and the Sils, and the rest of the Thusians were smart, they would realize this and support and help The 4.

My chest was feeling heavy; it was becoming hard to breathe. A black cloud was all around me. I was trapped in it, unable to move. I opened my eyes as wide as I could. Where was I? What was happening? I tried to move my head to look around, but I couldn't. I tried to move my legs and arms, but with no luck.

"Noel," I said, trying to stay calm and not panic. "Can you hear me? Can you hear me?" What was happening to me?

The thought of her lying face down in the goo came to me. What if I couldn't move? How would I be able to help her? The more I tried to move, the more I felt like I was being squeezed. The feeling of being trapped was taking over, as I became more claustrophobic.

My body began to try to break free using all of my might, as if I was convulsing. I had no control over it. But with one big jerk of my arm I felt something give way; just enough to give me hope I could escape. My mind continued to say, I have to get out of here, I have to get out of here. What if Noel needs me?

I awoke immediately to the sound of people upstairs. To my horror and shock I was in front of the stairs, completely submerged in the muck. The water must have come up and pulled me out of hiding while I was asleep.

"You can't make me go back down there," a familiar voice whined. It was Chester, and he wasn't happy.

But this time a familiar voice said, "You will do it now, or I will show you what happens to those who don't obey Xavier. Do I make myself clear?" It was Ashlyn; her voice was cold. And then I heard a door shut above.

The door opened, and the bright white light cascaded down upon me. I heard Chester take the first step, and with that sound and the thought of him finding me stuck there, I pushed myself deeper into the thick muck to hide.

I was completely submerged, and my head was only halfway in with my mouth just barely out of the sludge, allowing me to take some shallow breaths. But as Chester came closer, I held my breath.

"Hey, Steel, why don't you come down too? He commanded us both, not just me. You heard him, and what Ashlyn said to us before we left," he screamed up from one of the top stairs.

"He said for you to go down there, and Ashlyn was looking at you," a woman's voice answered.

He dropped the bottle, and it came bouncing down the stairs. If he came down to get it, he would surely see me. My heart sank. The only comfort I had was that Noel was actually in a shadow, not easy to spot, so at least she had a chance behind the stairs. I moved, trying to slide down deeper into the muck, which had become more like a swamp, allowing me to move a little bit farther away and into it.

I heard Chester quicken his pace down the stairs. It seemed like he was down there forever, but eventually I heard him go back up, and then the door slammed shut. He hadn't seen me. For now we were safe.

I pulled my arm out and began the process of freeing myself, once I heard them leave.

"Where are we?" Noel's strained, broken voice pulled me away from looking at the stairs, still cleaning the gook off of myself.

"Oh, thank God you're okay." I went to her, relieved to see she was awake.

"Elle, where are we?" she asked again.

"I'm not sure. I think it's the cellar in the...

"We're in the cellar?" she quizzed like she hadn't heard me clearly.

"Yeah, and a Sil has helped us."

"All of my injuries are better, right?"

"Actually, you're right, how did you know?"

"The Sil who has helped us is The Guardian of the Cellar. She's a good friend of us Thusian Guards," she said slowly, examining herself and stretching. "Aubriana is the one who comes down here and retrieves the spring water that comes up out of the ground. It has incredible healing properties. Some say it's the fountain of youth because it can be consumed in addition to being used externally. She put us down here to make sure we were healed. After the beating I took, I'm grateful she dumped me down here with you to watch after me. That's the only way I would have survived. So how long have we been down here?"

"I'm not sure. Maybe a couple of days or even a week. With very little light, I lost track of time."

"Let's signal her, so she'll know we're okay," Noel said, standing up and grimacing.

"How do we do that?"

"We need to go to the stairs and pull the lever that's attached to the bottom of the handrail. I remember Walter talking about how he brought Chip here. Remember him? He was the one who got sliced up by Grey while protecting Nicholas and Cora. Walter laid him down here and when Chip felt better he pulled the lever to let her know to come and get him."

"How do you know all of this?" I asked. Sure, she was part of Walter's security and he had talked about Chip, but it seemed like she knew the process intimately.

"Because, I came here right after . . . after I got injured at Vanderbilt. Chase had done everything he could for me. He had put me back together, but I wouldn't have been the same person. So Walter flew me out here for a couple of days. The Cellar made my wounds heal very fast, making it more likely that I would be able to continue protecting you. And it worked. It makes sense why the Seekers want this place. In a battle, having this spring would be a great asset."

I helped her up and she slowly walked over to the bottom of the staircase and pulled a small lever. Then a loud hiss and a flash happened in front of us.

"What's that?" I asked pointing in the direction it came from, noticing that it lacked a person silhouette this time. "The Seekers are scared of it. Aubriana told them it was a ghost."

"Of course she did. She nick-named herself Ghost Girl to scare Thusians. The lever releases swamp gas and once it hits the air, it ignites. She has a lever up in her room too, which can do the same thing. She'll come down here soon."

"Really, swamp gas?"

"Yes."

Right then the door opened. "Are you two ready to come up? It's three in the morning and those two Seekers went back to their quarters to sleep. There's no one awake here at home. You can follow me up and bring the supplies I left for you. I don't want any evidence left behind."

"Wake up, wake up," a small voice pleaded with me. I couldn't tell if I was in a dream or not.

I wiped my eyes and was now lying in a bed. I looked over to my side and Noel was there right next to me.

"I'm so happy you're awake." Aubriana stood in front of me. She had long red hair and freckles. She looked younger than her voice sounded.

"How did we get here?" I asked. I could only remember coming up the stairs, but after that nothing.

"When you and Noel got to the top of the stairs, you passed out. It's common, if you've been down in the cellar for more than two days. The increase of oxygen and lack of light usually makes your body need time to adjust. You two had been down there for five days. So I carried you both up here.

"And how long have we been up here?"

"Three days."

I rubbed my head, not sure how I could have been out for so long.

"Who knows we're here?" Noel asked, sitting up.

"No one except for me and Mrs. Penny Childs, our senior Sil.

"Do you know who I am?" I whispered to her.

"Of course I do. You two are Thusians who need our help," she said with a wink.

"Are you sure you haven't even told the Keeper or his guest?" Noel questioned further.

"The Sils here are serving the Seekers and Thusians who occupy this area. Keeper Siegel requested for it to be this way. Mrs. Penny and I both agreed you two would be safer if no one knew, not even the Keeper. So what are your plans now?"

"We have to get as far away from this place as we can. For starters we need to get back to the United States," I said.

"I may know a way to make that happen. A certain friend knew you were going to need to get back to the United States, but only if you're interested."

"Friend? What friend?" I said, trying to rack my brain. Who knew we needed to get out of here? This had to be a trap.

"Not really sure. A boy came here with a message saying if any one needed a ride, a boat would be waiting for them on the coast, but they would have to clean the toilets and cook for him."

Noel and I looked at each other. John Maker was waiting for us. I wasn't sure how he knew we needed his help, but I was glad he did. I pulled my hair back to the side and began twirling it in my fingers. We needed to get to his boat.

"Do you have any hydrogen peroxide?" I asked. "And I will also need scissors."

Aubriana stared at me, and a moment later her head began to nod, understanding what I wanted to do. She hurried out.

"So what now?" Noel asked, as if she had no idea what I was doing.

"Here you go, Elle," Aubriana said, walking through the doorway with the items I wanted in hand.

"So, do either of you know how to cut hair?" I asked.

Looking into the mirror made me feel like hyperventilating. My hair was now blonde, bleached blonde. I had left the peroxide in my hair for over two hours, and then both Aubriana and Noel had helped me cut it short into a pixie haircut. I resembled a full grown Tinker Bell. If I hadn't known who I was looking at in the mirror, I wouldn't have recognized myself.

Noel had also changed her appearance. She had used some type of polish or stain to turn her brown hair to jet black. She had also applied heavy black make-up. She was unrecognizable also.

"Wow, I have to say you both completely transformed. I wouldn't recognize you in a million years," Aubriana said.

Noel gave a small smile, which she didn't do often, so I knew we had done a good job.

"I've already arranged for you to get to the boat. I'm going to get you into the back of one of our supply trucks on its daily route to the port. The Seekers won't think anything of it. It's a two-day drive, and they stop over in a small town. Hemsworth, the driver of the truck you will be in, will get out of the truck and go into the pub once he arrives in town. That's when you should look for a place to stay. There are several barns in and around the area. Just make sure you are back in the truck by 7:30 the next morning. He's a stickler for time. He will leave exactly at 7:38. No sooner, no later. He's been driving this route for over 25 years and has the same routine."

"Go wait outside," Noel said, sounding kind of mean.

Aubriana gave us an uncertain look.

"What Noel is trying to say is we need a couple of minutes to talk things over first."

Aubriana stood up and walked out of the room.

"That was rude," I said.

"Your pleasantries take too much time and plus, she's a Sil. She doesn't..."

"Really? She's a person, just like all Sils. You sound no better than Ester Theasing, or even Xavier. Quit being so blind to your ignorance."

She rolled her eyes, but nodded her head, knowing I was right, or at least placating me.

"We just need to get back to the United States. Her way has too many variables and involves too many things I can't control, and that's not good. My safe house in Cincinnati is easy to get to. We can't let anyone else know what we're doing, not even Aubriana," she said.

"Aubriana, come back in, you're coming with us. Noel, put your shroud on, with the hood up. We're leaving now," I said, agreeing with Noel and knowing exactly how we were going to get to Cincinnati.

"Really, Elle, weren't you listening to me?"

"I was. You're right." I grabbed the jug of the elixir from the night stand and went out the door.

Noel and Aubriana hurried after me, but I was already down the first flight of stairs before they caught up with me.

"El..." but Noel's voice faded when she saw two Seekers up ahead. They were both big. The man had to be Chester. I had seen him go up and down the stairs a couple of times. There was no way it could be anyone else.

"Chester, haven't you gone down and gotten the jug full yet?" I asked, walking up to the two of them.

He spun around and had a blank look on his face. The girl was equally as big as Chester. I was hoping it was Steel. We would have to wait and see.

"Who are you and—"

I cut him off. "Really, you buffoon? You're going to question me when you have failed Xavier so many times already? He gives you a simple task and you can't even complete it."

The woman walked over to me. She was easily a foot taller and had one hundred pounds on me. If she wanted to, she could squash me like a bug.

"What do you want?" I barked at her with as much confidence as I could, remembering how Cora and Genevieve sounded when they were wanting something to happen.

"I've never seen you before. Answer his question. Who are you?" It was Steel.

"First of all, I don't answer to you," I said, pushing her shoulder. "And secondly, Steel, Xavier sent you both here to get a simple task done. And what did you do? You left it up to Chester. He's not even a Seeker."

I could see a little doubt in her eyes. I had to push further. I thrust the jug of elixir into her gut, catching her off guard. "The next time he asks you to do something, do it yourself."

She nodded, which was a relief, holding tightly onto the jug. But now I had to get us out of here without any questions.

"You two are lucky I was sent to check on you without Ashlyn, because it could have easily been time for both of you to make your Final Sacrifice if she had been here." Both of their faces turned pale, scared at the thought of being confronted by Ashlyn. I walked over to the door. Noel and Aubriana followed. I pushed it open and turned back.

"There won't be another warning. Do I make myself clear? Because Xavier's Little Dove won't be as kind the next time." And I slammed the door shut behind us.

The three of us hurried along, away from the house toward the river, to a dock with several boats tied to it. We were going to escape. And for once I was the reason why I was okay.

END OF ELLE AND THE ESCAPE
Congratulations to the Winners of  
The 2016 Hero Chronicles Writing Contest!

GRAND PRIZE:

Not in the Pink of Health

by Deeya Prakash

FIRST RUNNER UP:

A Spark of Hope

by Jonathan Waldmann

SECOND RUNNER UP:

Finding Mom

by Marissa Riehm

"Bread, cheese, dish soap, yogurt, light bulbs, oh yes, we need butter!" exclaimed Miranda as she walked through the aisles at MegaMart. Since they were going on a trip to Hawaii in two weeks, the week's shopping list wasn't as long. She picked up two sticks of butter and refocused her eyes on her list.

Bread, dish soap, cheese, butter, yogurt, light bulbs, bug spray.

All she needed now was the bug spray. She knew how much her dad hated mosquitoes and how bad they bit this time of year. She picked up the can labeled KeepAway. She hummed as she proceeded to check out. This was the first time her mother had let her go to the grocery store for the weekly shopping. But, Miranda understood why.

A few weeks ago, there had been a huge scare all over the West Coast due to the outbreak of a deadly disease called the Pink Fever. It was all over the news channels and Internet, and people couldn't stop talking about it.

In the middle of July, an airport security guard at the Reno-Tahoe International Airport started developing symptoms of the Pink Fever. The authorities had spent countless days searching for the individual suspected of bringing the disease into the country, and finally identified him as a man who had arrived from a remote African town. But, before they could find him, he had disappeared.

Gradually, more people became infected. Doctors and researchers worked day in and day out to contain the spread of the disease and find a cure. During this period of time, no child was allowed out of the house, and many adults didn't leave either, fearing that they might catch the fever and pass it on to their family.

The Pink Fever was a contagious condition consisting of five stages. During the first stage, your body temperature rises to scorching levels. Then, you start developing pink rashes all over your body. Third, the pink spots expand, covering your entire body from head to toe. Fourth, you become incredibly weak, barely able to lift even a sheet of paper. The fifth stage is the last and final stage—death. The first few stages normally last for about a week or two each, but once you develop the fourth stage, it could be only a matter of hours before the disease takes you away. The fatal fever was caused by a virus, and it had already claimed dozens of lives.

Finally, after immense research, a scientist discovered an antidote. Immediately, doctors and nurses set to work, trying to cure as many people as possible. The only problem was that the first dose of the antidote had to be given within 48 hours of coming in contact with the virus. The infected person had to also take the antidote every day for the next five days in a controlled environment, such as the Research Center Laboratories at the Medical Center of Nevada (RCLMCN). For good measure, even those who had no trace of the Pink Fever could take one dose of the antidote if their doctor thought it was necessary.

As she waited to checkout, Miranda shivered. She just kept telling herself that no one in the city of Los Angeles had the Fever anymore, and even if it did break out again, the scientists now had an antidote. But, since the original carrier hadn't been found yet, Miranda still felt slightly uneasy. Some said that he must have died, while others believed he was still on the run. As for Miranda, she thinks he's still out there, lurking in the alleys, just waiting for—

"Next!" barked the grumpy woman behind the counter. Miranda snapped out of her daze and quickly began loading her merchandise onto the conveyor belt. Once all of her products had been bagged, she slapped a twenty dollar bill on the counter and quickly left the shop with two bags on each arm, determined not to catch the grumpy cashier's eye.

As soon as Miranda was safely outdoors, she heaved a big sigh and started for home. She lived in a medium-sized house with her mother, father, and her older brother, Caleb. It was about two blocks away from MegaMart, which came in handy when they had to make quick, last minute trips.

Halfway down the road, she started to feel itchy on her right elbow. Stopping to investigate, she noticed that she had gotten a bug bite. She dug her hand into one of the grocery bags and fished around. Unable to feel the familiar cylindrical shape of the KeepAway bottle, she shoved her hand into another bag. It wasn't in that one either. Another itch developed on her left knee, and another on her cheek. Frustrated, she peered into each bag. Bread, dish soap, cheese, butter, yogurt, light bulbs......no bug spray!! Dad would never forgive me if I forgot bug spray! She thought, Hang on. I never heard it drop out of my bag, and I'm sure the lady bagged it......so where could it be? Baffled, Miranda retraced her steps back toward MegaMart.

She hurried back inside the grocery store and checked the counter. Still nothing. She approached the grumpy cashier who was currently bagging items for an old lady. Miranda waited for her to finish and then approached the cashier.

"Excuse me," she said politely. The woman turned her head and glared at Miranda.

"Can I help you?" she asked, chomping on a piece of gum. Miranda held out her receipt and handed it to the lady.

"Well, I paid for this can of bug spray, but it seems to not be in my bags. Did it get left on the counter?" she asked.

"I bagged it all right!" snapped the woman, shoving the receipt back at Miranda. Startled, Miranda fell over. She hit the tile with a loud thud and scratched her elbow on the side of the counter. Seething, Miranda hoisted herself up off of the ground and went to pick up her fallen bags. What's wrong with this lady? She peered inside each of them to make sure nothing had broken, and luckily, her lightbulbs had survived. But before she turned away, she noticed a hole, the size of her fist, in one of the bags. The bread must have been in front of it the whole time! How could she have missed it? It was getting dark, and she knew she should be heading home before her parents started to worry. She shrugged off the lost bug spray and decided to leave.

She began to walk out of the store, when she heard a rattling noise coming from outside the automatic doors. "No time for distractions," she said, with an uneasy smile. When she stepped outside, she noticed a man behind the ice freezer. Before he could turn away, Miranda spotted her bug spray can, with the price tag still visible, peeking out of a brown, tattered sack that he was holding.

"Hey!" she shouted. The strange man turned toward her. He had dark brown eyes, dark skin, no hair, and was holding a sack. He was wearing some type of cloak that was covering him head to toe, and one glove only on his right hand.

"You iz talk to me?" he asked, in a thick accent.

"You stole my bug spray bottle, mister," she stated.

"Oh, I iz very sorry," he said, lifting the bug spray bottle out of his sack. Miranda noticed that he used his left hand. "You see, I iz trying to collect lost items, since I haz no money." He quickly handed her the now grimy bottle, and she put it into one of her shopping bags.

"Well, you're lucky that I won't be reporting you to the police," she shouted, and the man took off. She scolded herself. Why did she snap at him? He was, after all, just a poor man scrounging for lost items. This is when she should feel grateful for her blessing. She sighed.

"Hey, mister!" she called back. He stopped abruptly, and turned himself to face her.

"Hay iz for horsez, miss," he said, and laughed at his own joke.

"Here," she said, hands shaking as she pulled out a five dollar bill from her pocket. His eyes widened as he sprinted back towards her and snatched it from her hand.

"You iz nice girl," he said. Smiling, he turned and ran.

Even though he seemed like a nice man, Miranda couldn't help feeling a little scared about handling the bug spray bottle. Maybe he had replaced it with poison, or maybe a potion that caused death or—

Miranda shook her head, clearing her mind. Stop thinking about it, she thought, although she was still a bit suspicious, so she quickened her pace. If she didn't get home in time to catch part of the World Series, her dad would make sure Miranda never stopped hearing about it.

When she arrived in her neighborhood, she removed the bug spray bottle from the shopping bag. She studied it, and noticed that it had become quite sticky and some of the wrapping had begun to peel off. Given the circumstances, she decided that she wouldn't let anyone use it, and walked around her house towards the community garbage bin. She tossed it in. Feeling much better, Miranda hummed all the way home.

As usual, her mother had left the garage door open. As carefully as possible, she weaved her way through all of Caleb's sports stuff, her mom's gardening tools, and her dad's lawn equipment until she finally reached the door. She pulled it open. Comforted by the familiar sound of her mom cooking, and her dad and Caleb cheering for their favorite baseball team, she smiled and walked into the house.

"Oh Miranda, honey, thank goodness you're back! We were starting to get a little worried!" her mom said, taking off her oven mitten to wrap her in a hug.

"No, we weren't. Just mom was. Besides, I was enjoying the peace and quiet without you," yelled Caleb over the blaring of the TV.

Peace and quiet? Sure... nice one Caleb, thought Miranda, but she didn't bother to reply. Miranda's mom let go and went back to her cooking.

But Dad came to the rescue. "Caleb, don't bully your sister. We've talked about this a million times. Apologize," said her father, putting up the recliner. He paused the TV and then turned it off.

Caleb groaned. "Dad, come on, we need to finish the World Series," he whined, walking into the kitchen.

"The World Series can wait. Come, set the table. Let's not allow TV get in the way of the one family meal of your day," he said. Spoken like a true parent.

Miranda began to unload the groceries. She stuck the cheese, yogurt, and bread in the fridge and emptied the bottle of dish soap into the sink soap dispenser. After she was done with that, she handed the light bulbs to her dad.

"Here, Dad. I'm pretty sure I got the right kinds. You wanted the white kind, not the soft white, right?" she asked.

"Yep. These are the ones," he said taking them from her.

"Did you remember the bug spray?' he asked.

Uh oh. She hadn't thought about what to do if one of her family members noticed it missing! Should she tell her father what happened, or should she keep it to herself? She didn't want to worry him, or her mom either. But, she had never lied before. Caleb was always the one who lied, not her. She kept arguing with herself until her father brought her back to Earth.

He cleared his throat.

"Oh, the bug spray bottle! Right, um, well I um, forgot it. I'll bring it tomorrow, I promise!" she stammered, developing a quick cover story.

"I don't get it, Miranda. You made a list. Unless you can't read, you should be able to follow your own directions," Caleb teased from the dining room.

"Just shut up, Caleb," Miranda spluttered. If only he knew.

"Sorry, can't shut up. My award-winning micro-processor brain can only shut down," he said laughing. Gosh, he could be so annoying sometimes.

The family gathered for dinner and said their prayers. After that, they began to eat. The gooey lasagna warmed Miranda's stomach. Mom's cooking was the best!

"Just think, Miranda. What if there was a machine that would know exactly what you needed from the grocery store? Kind of like a grocery GPS. You would walk in, and it would tell you where your product was located. That way, you would be able to spend barely anytime at the store looking through a bunch of stuff, and scatter-brains like you would never forget an item!" Caleb said.

"You know, it could happen. I just finished a science-fiction book with robots and cyborgs and androids and—"

"Miranda, honey, don't you think it's time for you to start reading some non-fiction? You know, to help you learn something useful instead of daydream?"

No way mom, she thought. She hated non-fiction and preferred a book that provided somewhere into which she could escape, like fiction and fantasy.

Once everybody had finished their dinner, Miranda and her mom went back to the kitchen to clean up, and she followed her dad and Caleb back to the TV to watch the remainder of the game. She curled up in her favorite chair and opened her sci-fi novel and began to read, glancing up at the TV once in a while. Finally, around 9 pm, the game ended, and switched to the daily 9 o'clock news, which they watched every night.

Closing her book she noticed that the scratch that she had gotten on her elbow from when she fell in MegaMart had started to bleed.

"Mom, I'm going to grab a Band-Aid," she said, approaching the staircase. Her mom nodded. Miranda walked up the stairs and was almost at the top when she heard her mom and dad gasp loudly. She quickly ran back down the stairs and barreled into the living room. There, she found her mom, dad and Caleb gaping at the TV in silence. The heading read BREAKING NEWS... ORIGINAL PINK FEVER VICTIM SPOTTED...

"He-He's been spotted" said her dad, fingers shaking, and pointing to a black and white picture. She directed her eyes toward it. There stood the fuzzy outline of a man, covered in pink spots, with dark brown eyes and no hair . . . standing in front of MegaMart.

She scanned the scrolling news banner. Taken on May 1st, 2100 at 18:00. That was 3 hours ago.

Miranda shook with fear. The man she had met not too long ago looked very similar to the man in the picture. Were they from the same town? Were they related? If either of those things were true, then the two men would at least look a little different, wouldn't they? I just met another random man on the street, that's all, she told herself. There's no connection between him and the wanted man at all.

She looked back at the picture. It was blurry, so she couldn't be certain. She was about to turn away when something caught her eye. Clutched in the man's hand was a five-dollar bill.

No. Absolutely not. He couldn't be. How could he?

"D-D-Dad," she stuttered.

"What is it, honey?" he asked with a look of concern on his face.

"I gave him that five dollar bill," she whispered.

Her dad's look of surprise and confusion was the last thing Miranda saw before she fainted.

**

She woke up in a wheelchair.

"Mom," she whispered in a shaky voice.

"Miranda, honey, I'm here," she said in a voice that didn't suit her at all. Miranda knew that voice. It was her mom's I'm-going-to-pretend-that-everything's-alright voice. She had used it the time Caleb had fallen out of a tree and broke his wrist. She waved the thought away. Miranda's aching body jogged her memories. She remembered that she had fainted, and checked to see if anything was broken. She checked her right arm. No damage. Then she checked her left arm. Nothing. Then, she turned her arm over. Right over her wrist joint, there was a faint pink blotch. She tried to scrub it off with her knuckles, but it wouldn't budge. Gradually, her memories of the day before flooded back.

"Mom, where are we going?" she asked, in a rather tense voice. She gripped the edge of her wheelchair, knuckles turning white.

"I'll explain on the hovercraft, sweetheart. You've been out for quite some time. Almost a day," she said.

Wow, the hovercraft? Miranda knew that the Los Angeles government was the first in the country to purchase two hovercrafts. They hadn't been used yet and were supposed to be saved for only extreme medical emergencies. Miranda didn't think she had even seen one before! Where were they taking her?

"Don't worry," her mother soothed. That voice she was using was really bothering Miranda. Miranda sighed and looked around. She was being wheeled through a patch of grass. The sun was shielded behind a cloud, and there was a slight breeze. Miranda inhaled, smelling the sweet aroma of nature.

Suddenly, she felt the ground shake. She looked around. At first she thought it was an earthquake. Growing up in an earthquake-prone town, Miranda had learned all about them. But there wasn't just rumbling. A dark shadow appeared on the patch of grass in front of them. Then she heard the soft, slow whirring of an engine, and glanced up into the sky. Miranda's eyes widened as she gaped at the beautiful vehicle descending upon them. Almost as if they had taken an image from one of Miranda's science-fiction novels, the hovercraft appeared almost exactly like a flying saucer. It looked as if it were made entirely out of glass with different shades of blue and gray. The propeller at the rear of the craft spun without sound. Miranda pinched herself several times before she actually believed she was conscious. This is the coolest thing I have ever seen, she thought. But she was in for more. As soon as the hovercraft had come to a complete stop, she felt her wheelchair moving again. A silver ramp with swirled handrails extended from the craft's door and landed with a light thud on the grass. Miranda sat in stunned silence as she was wheeled up into the hovercraft by her mother, followed by another woman, whom Miranda hadn't noticed until just now.

"That's your doctor," her mom said, after noticing Miranda's look of confusion. The doctor had on a loose pair of scrubs and a white coat. She had red pointed glasses and hair pulled into a tight bun. Miranda noticed that both her mom and the doctor had on latex gloves. The doctor caught her eye and smiled. Miranda managed a thin smile back and turned away. She looked around the craft. There were stunning mosaics decorating the walls made of shiny multicolored tiles and glittering lights lining the aisles. Her mom helped her out of the chair and into a seat. The seats felt as if they were made from velvet and the windows were crystal clear. Miranda couldn't help but grin. She wanted her own hovercraft! She let her eyes wander more, and noticed a sign light up above the cockpit. It read: "15 minutes." She gazed out the window. The craft lifted off, and her ears filled with pressure. After about five minutes of sitting and thinking, she decided that her confusion couldn't stay bottled up forever.

"Mom, tell me," she said, with a look of determination.

"What do you want to know?" she said, with an unreadable expression.

"Everything," she replied.

"All right," said her mom, and heaved a big sigh. "As you have probably noticed, you have developed symptoms of the Pink Fever, and you're in stage one as of now, so we're trying to rush you to Research Center Laboratories at the Medical College of Nevada for the antidote treatment," she said. Miranda shivered, despite her high fever. Her mom continued.

"Weeks ago, the antidote had been transferred to the RCLMCN. There was a minor outbreak of a different viral infection that had similar symptoms to the Fever. Thinking it was the Pink Fever, the scientists from the Southern California University took all of the antidote they had with them and flew to Nevada. When they found out that it was a different infection, they were able to treat it without the antidote. As they were leaving, they left the antidote with the scientists. So the closest place near Los Angeles where the antidote can be administered is the RCLMCN," she finished, with a deep breath.

"So that's where we're going," said Miranda.

"Yes, dear. Now don't worry, you're going to be fine."

She glanced at the sign above the cockpit. It now read, "Prepare for landing."

The craft started to descend. This was Miranda's least favorite part (at least while riding on an airplane), and the added fatigue and dreadful throbbing all over her body didn't help at all. Her ears filled up with pressure and her arms plastered to her cushion seat. When the hovercraft finally hit the ground, Miranda yawned, and her ears instantly popped. That works in a hovercraft too, she thought. She heaved herself out of the chair and slowly walked out of the craft. She observed her surroundings. They were in another grassy patch, but this grass was brown and withered, and the air smelled like sand and heat.

"Miranda, sit in the wheelchair. We need you to conserve your energy," said her doctor. Obediently, she sat down.

She was wheeled into the laboratory building. Miranda noticed that almost all of the rooms were made of glass, and there were scales and scientific equipment in every one. She could see people in white lab coats and gloves bustling around vibrantly-colored liquids, examining each and every one carefully. All of the doors were closed, except for one at the end of the hallway. This room had a bed and a window, and wasn't made of glass. Her mom wheeled her into it and Miranda painstakingly heaved herself up and sat on the bed. On the bedside table, there was a sheet that said her full name and a bunch of scientific words she didn't understand. On the other table, there was a syringe full of purple liquid. Miranda had always wondered what the antidote looked like. She had pictured it pink, not purple. Her doctor left the room, but her mom, stayed right next to her bed.

"Ah, hello Miranda!" said a warm, welcoming voice. Miranda turned her head. In the doorway was a rather skinny young man, with glasses and a crooked nose. He was wearing a white coat with his name embroidered on it, but he was too far away for Miranda to read it.

"Um, hi," she said.

"I can see that you've been a victim of the Pink Fever, but no matter! We have the antidote ready and after a few day's treatment and lots of rest you'll be as good as new," he said jovially. She gave a weak smile back, trying very hard not to explode with rage. How could he be so happy? She was in pain here!

"Now, without further ado, Miranda, I would like you to please hold out your right arm, facing up," he said. Trembling, she obeyed.

"Mom," she whispered. Now she was nervous.

"I'm right here, lil' turtle. I love you."

Miranda loved that name.

"Okay, I want you to take a deep breath. I'm going to insert the antidote into your vein on your right arm, and it will hurt a little. But I know you're a brave girl. Are you ready?"

At least he was honest about pain. Miranda mustered a slight nod, bracing herself.

"You're going to have to hold your daughter's hand tightly, she may flail," he said to my mother. How's that supposed to make me feel better? She wondered.

"After she receives the antidote, she'll sleep for about 30 minutes, so don't be alarmed if she doesn't wake up right away," he said, and picked up the syringe.

"On three: one, two, three!"

Pain like no other coursed through her body and she let out a loud scream. Then, as soon as it had started, it ended. Miranda fell asleep.

***

This process continued for five more days. Every day after taking her supplement, Miranda would drift off into an uneasy sleep and would wake up unrefreshed and weak. She couldn't move a muscle and didn't have an appetite. She was beginning to think that she wouldn't make it. She slowly started losing hope. But after her last dose of antidote, things started to turn around.

"Miranda, Miranda, wake up darling. Come on sweetheart, you can do it."

Miranda eased her eyes open. It was her mom. Caleb was standing on the other side of the bed, along with her dad.

"Hey," said her dad.

"Hay is for horses," she said and chuckled, but quickly stopped, as she remembered. She decided that her favorite part of the day was that moment, right when she woke up, when she didn't remember anything. She wished the moment could last longer.

"How are you feeling?" asked Caleb.

"Better," she confessed. Her body had stopped aching as much and she felt a little more like herself.

"I've got something to tell you," Miranda started, but Caleb shook his head, smiling.

"We already know. After you were diagnosed, we went back to MegaMart and checked for evidence. Sure enough, some really grumpy woman behind the counter had witnessed the whole scenario and reported it to the police. You're safe now." Miranda couldn't help but laugh. Even her brother thought that woman was grumpy. She averted her gaze to her wrist. There was a huge bulky bandage over the joint. She looked away.

"What happened to the man?" she asked.

"He was found the day you gave him the money. Apparently the only reason he hadn't admitted himself sooner was because he didn't have any money. Because he was discovered late in the advanced stages of the Pink Fever, he couldn't take the antidote. But, the doctors are working hard to try to get him healthy again," replied her mother.

Her dad's eyes met hers. "C'mon, kiddo." he said. "Let's put all this behind us and think happy thoughts. You need to rest and gain your energy back for our upcoming vacation, right?" He smiled. Miranda had almost forgotten! Hawaii! Her paradise!

She lay back down on the bed and closed her eyes. As she pictured the turquoise waters and the cream-colored sand, she sighed, and slowly drifted off to sleep.

END OF NOT IN THE PINK OF HEALTH

The sun begins its brilliant ascent from below the horizon. It is a warm summer day; a soft breeze accompanies the heat. A figure stands looking off into the distance, as if contemplating something important. He turns, revealing his light blonde hair and deep blue eyes. He is a slender man. He holds his hands in his pockets as he casually gazes at the dawn of the new day.

He begins to walk away from where he's standing, raising his hands from his pockets to his hips. This motion reveals that he is wearing a pair of gloves, but these are no ordinary gloves. The gloves are made from light black cloth, and the tips of the gloves' fingers seem to have been hardened. He holds a piece of paper in his hands, reading it closely as if to remember something important. He drops the paper and continues on.

The paper flutters to the ground, revealing its inscription. "Do what is right."

***

"What a nice store you have here, don't you think?" The hero stands inside the entrance of a shop, looking around at the stock. The store is dotted with many colored wires, as if he just walked into an electricity hub.

The shopkeeper looks up at him with a smile. "Why, thank you. I try my best. Now, what brings you here, young man?"

The hero moves from the doorway to the counter where the shopkeeper stands. "By any chance do you have high insulation copper-alloy wiring in stock?"

"Yes, I think so. Let me go check." The shopkeeper dashes through a door leading into a back room.

After a few minutes go by, he comes back in, holding a box full of colored wires bunched inside. "Don't usually get such a specific order. How much do you want?" The shopkeeper sets the box on the counter and waits for an answer.

The hero looks down into the box, gazing back up at him with a smirk on his face. "I'll take all of it."

The shopkeeper looks up at him with aghast. He laughs. "That'll cost you a pretty penny; this wiring doesn't come cheap."

The hero, with an even smugger look on his face, responds calmly, "That's fine. I have plenty to spend on it." He grabs a piece of paper from his pocket and, with a pen conveniently on the counter, scribbles a note on it. He hands the note to the shopkeeper. "Here, take this to the City Treasury and have them take the money out of my research fund."

The shopkeeper opens the note, and a look of shock crosses his face. "Wait! You're the Paul Crowell? That explains why you would need so much wiring."

Paul laughs and responds, "Yup, they don't call me 'The Conduit' for nothing. Thanks for the wires, man. It'll help."

The shopkeeper smiles. "No, thank you. Haven't had business all day. You just became my best customer."

Paul laughs and grabs the box, starting to walk away. "I'm flattered."

Suddenly, they hear a crash from across the street.

"Whelp, that doesn't sound good." Paul runs quickly out of the store and into a chase scene in front of him on the street. A man runs down the street, holding a gun and a bag under his arm. He is pursued by the police who look as if they cannot contain him, even with their best efforts. The police desperately fire shots at him, but their bullets seem to deflect off his clothing. Paul runs in front of him, as if running in front of a pack of bulls. The police stop shooting, and the man stops in his tracks. Paul sifts through his pocket, revealing a badge. The police look shocked, and one of them shouts into a Walkie-Talkie.

"Do not send back up! A specialist has appeared out of nowhere and—"

The criminal starts to sprint, trying to push past Paul. Paul pushes him back to where he was standing, making him stumble to the ground. The criminal jumps up, anticipating an attack from Paul.

"Save me the trouble and stop trying to run away." Paul throws the box of wires on the ground and looks the criminal in the eye with a glare that would make any person step back. The criminal laughs and raises his gun at Paul, ready to pull the trigger.

Paul interrupts him first. "I wouldn't do that if I were you." Paul shifts his intensity to a smirk. "If I get hit by one of those bullets, I'll explode. Think of it as an equivalent exchange. You kill me, I kill you."

"Really? You think I'm going to believe something so wild?"

Paul chuckles at him. "Why don't I let you in on a little secret, shall I?" Paul unzips his jacket slowly, revealing a mass of wires resting on him. "Why don't I introduce myself? My name is Paul Crowell, known to many as 'The Conduit'."

The criminal looks unimpressed. "Never heard of you."

"I'd think twice about shooting me. The wires around my body are constantly conducting electricity in a current. I can switch it from different types of currents at will." The criminal clutches his gun, which is still aimed at Paul, and pulls the trigger.

The bullet flies and hits Paul right in the stomach. He steps back, staggering from the shock, but the wires are acting oddly. Electricity jumps from his body, conducting into the criminal's body. The criminal falls to the ground, paralyzed.

Paul stands over him, holding the wound where he was shot. "I made the current a direct current and connected my palms. That means if the current is disrupted, the electricity leaps out and disperses. Luckily, you were wearing steel-lined clothing; don't think I didn't notice it. Your clothes acted as a lightning rod for it." He takes a step back, his hand still on his wound.

The man on the ground laughs with what little strength he has left. "Did anyone ever tell you giving away your plans is always a bad idea?"

Suddenly, a shooting pain goes throughout Paul's stomach. A blade protrudes from him. Another attacker stands behind Paul.

"How does it feel to be the hero now?" The attacker twists the blade, making it increasingly more painful.

"It feels great, especially when I rid the world of scum like you two." Paul grabs the blade going through him and his gloves begin to give off electricity. The electricity jumps through the blade, traveling through the thug, leaving him on the ground like the first criminal with the gun.

"I must say, don't surprise a person like me who startles easily." He holds his hand to the wound, using his other hand to signal to the police in pursuit of the criminals. They rush in, looking over the scene.

"Thank you for your help, Crowell. We'll take it from here. We've called an ambulance to tend to your wounds."

"I don't need an ambulance, I'm just fine." He continues on. He begins to walk away, removing his hand from his stomach. Blood stains his hand. The color drains from his face. He falls over, disoriented. He lies there, incapacitated by the side of the crime scene.

***

Paul springs awake, shocked that he is resting in a hospital bed. He is connected to an IV, and bandages are wrapped around his stomach and arms. A doctor stands next to his bed, talking to a man in a dark blue uniform stitched with golden stripes and stars.

"Well, what do you know? He's awake. How are you feeling, Mr. Crowell?"

Disoriented, Paul sits up in his bed. "Terrible! I just realized I left a whole box of wires on the ground at the crime scene."

The room erupts with laughter. The man wearing the uniform opened his mouth to speak. "Just what I thought you'd say. I had them sent to your home."

Paul smiled. "Good. I don't know how I would repair my uniform without them, General."

"I'll have you know the higher ups were impressed by what happened. Those two crooks were some of the most wanted villains in the country."

Paul attempts to stand up, but the IV holds him back. "Glad I could help. There's nothing more satisfying than getting those kinds of people off the streets."

The general laughs. "I'm glad you think so, because the higher ups were so happy they bumped you up a rank. Congratulations, Lieutenant."

"Why, thank you, General. Couldn't have done it without everyone's help, especially my wife. She passes me encouraging notes every day, even this morning."

"What a wonderful person she must be. Make sure to tell her I said hello," says the general.

"Will do, sir." Paul says, and with that the general is off. Paul lies back down in his hospital bed and sighs.

"I'll be back later to check on you," says the doctor, and he leaves as well.

"Now, how long 'til I leave this place?" Paul asks out loud as the doctor walks out, but the doctor ignores him. "Not too long I hope. I have to use those wires!" He laughs to himself, any other worries escaping him. Soon though, there would be more things to worry about.

END OF A SPARK OF HOPE

"Are we doing anything on Saturday? I have a friend's birthday party to go to."

"It's your mom's birthday. You know that. We're going to look through the family scrapbook and make a cake—"

"That no one will eat," I interrupted. "Why do we even celebrate her birthday? She abandoned us when I was three." I was annoyed. It had been twelve years since I'd last seen my mother and I wasn't really into the whole "celebrating a stranger's birthday" thing.

"I was going to say that we would make a cake for us to enjoy. But anyway, you're not going to that other birthday party. We're going to spend the day together. And Callie, that's final!" yelled John, my dad.

I groaned. Instead of calling my dad "Dad," I call him by his first name, John. I guess I just think of him as more of a friend than a parent.

I remember very little of my mom. She has brown hair and bright blue eyes. I remember staring up at them when I was young. She used to sing me to sleep every night, at least that's what I'm told. I love her because she is my mom, but I hate her for leaving John and me alone. I don't know how it's possible to feel two completely different feelings at once. John said Mom had a good reason for leaving, but I'm not sure I fully believe him. What could possibly be a good enough reason? People say my mom was a wonderful person. But I don't understand why my mom would just abandon John and me if she was such a good person. There is so much I don't know and so much I don't understand.

***

It was after dinner and I was sitting in my room. Everything was black and images started to appear. I was seeing something like a vision. A guy was chasing someone who looked like my mother. A ball of fire appeared in midair; it looked like it came from the guy's hand. Then, the woman held her hand up as a ball of water deflected the fireball. The man threw a second ball of fire and it hit the woman and she fell to the ground. The guy started sprinting away. As the woman turned around I could tell it was definitely my mother. In the distance, I could see a sign that said "Welcome to The Cincinnati Zoo."

I could see normally again and the vision-like scene seemed to be over. I was freaked out and surprised by what I had seen. I had never experienced this vision-like scene, but I felt like it was believable and I had to act on it.

I immediately ran down the stairs, knowing John was sleeping, and hopped into the car. I was only fifteen years old and had just gotten my driving permit, but I felt like this was worth the risk. The zoo was close, only five minutes away. I knew the way.

As I arrived at the zoo I saw my sobbing mother. I was so relieved to see that the vision was real and I was actually seeing my mother. I ran up to her full of questions but kept quiet and put my hand on her back, patting her gently.

Why? Why did I have a vision? Why does my mom have special powers? Why was my mom ambushed? I had so many questions, but I knew I would have to wait for the answers.

We talked the rest of the night. I filled her in on what was happening in my life. And she explained to me why she left. I was not filled with hatred for my mom but hatred toward myself, for expecting the worst from her.

"When I was younger I was blessed with powers. I don't know who gave them to me or how I got them. My powers are made up of the four elements: Earth, Water, Heat and Air. Once I had gained a basic understanding of my powers, I chose to show my brother. At first he had fun with me, and the powers were like something ordinary to us, but then we grew older and he started wanting my powers. He would spend hours in his room. I imagine he was finding ways to take my powers. At the time I was the only person with power and his jealousy grew. He became more angered and he was always in his room. Some nights I would hear him throwing items in his room. My parents always worked late, so they never noticed.

"I was married and pregnant with you when my brother finally figured out how to take my powers. He attacked me one week after you were born and I was not strong enough to hold him back. After two months of worry for you and John, I decided I must leave and it was the hardest thing, it truly was," Mom explained.

"I'm so sorry, I had no idea," I said.

"Ever since then, I've been on the run, but trying to stay close," Mom mentioned.

"Thank you for explaining. I love you," I replied.

"I love you too," Mom said.

"When I gave birth to you, my Air and Earth powers transferred to you. My brother grew jealous of me and found a way to take my powers away. If my brother could take my powers, he could take yours or hurt you. This is why I left you and John, I would not let myself endanger you. My brother ended up taking my powers of heat. Now all I'm left with are my water powers. Unfortunately, as my powers weakened, I myself weakened."

"Are you saying that I have powers?" I asked.

"Yes," Mom replied.

"Wow," I said. I was surprised and excited. How was it possible?

I stared at the ground, feeling ashamed of myself. Why would I judge someone by just one thing they did? It wasn't like me. My mom's fingers brushed through my tangled hair. I laid my head down on my mom's knee, and then she started singing a lullaby to me. Instead of denying the babyish song, I enjoyed it and let the lullaby put me to sleep. The next thing I knew, it was morning.

"You'd better get going. I should too."

"But what if your brother comes back?" I asked, scared to be left alone again without her.

"I'll be fine. You'll know where to find me if you need me," Mom replied.

"Why can't you come home and stay with us?" I questioned.

"How about we meet here every Saturday at two o'clock? Okay?"

"But Mom, can't you come home for your birthday?"

"I told you this already. The second I go home, you and Dad will be in danger. I won't let myself do that to you. I am truly, very sorry," she explained.

I lifted up my head and she held my hands. I stared into her eyes as she did with mine. She made me feel warm. Her skin was so soft and I enjoyed it. I really did not want her to go, but I knew I had to trust her if we were going to have any type of relationship. I was so ashamed of myself for not seeking the truth earlier.

***

We both started walking back to our cars. She turned toward me and I faced her too. She was only an inch taller than me. Her eyes were full of sadness. I opened my arms, thinking she would run up and hug me. I was mistaken. She just stood there and stared without expression. I was still in shock from having powers and finding my mother. I got in my car and turned the key. By the time I looked up Mom had already left with smoke trailing behind her car.

When I got home, John was on the couch. He was unhappy.

"Where have you been?" he asked.

"Discovering things," I replied.

"What does that mean?"

I could tell he wasn't happy with me being gone the entire night with no explanation. It was breakfast time, so hopefully food would calm him down. I didn't know how I was going to get out of this mess.

"I was finding Mom."

"Did you find anything?"

"Yes!" My face was wet. I was crying. I was happy to have found Mom. I was also scared of what was going to happen next.

John got up and walked over to me. He hugged me and I felt better. I felt like I could take on the world, or at least I could take on my crazy family. Now I would have a relationship with my mom, and John would have a relationship too, even if it was secret. Now I would learn more about super powers and about defending myself, my, mom and John. Now I could know the truth.

"I love you, Callie," John said.

I smiled and closed my eyes. "I love you most."

END OF FINDING MOM
Are you a fan of  
THE HERO CHRONICLES?

Be the first to get fan exclusives and insider Thusie information by engaging with The Hero Chronicles' author online.

Visit the links below to talk directly to Tim Mettey, stay up-to-date on his writing process, get insight into the world of The Hero Chronicles, and even catch some sneak peeks of future books.

Join other Thusies around the world on:

Facebook.com/tim.mettey  
Twitter.com/TimMettey  
Pinterest.com/timmettey

#Thusies #TheHeroChronicles
ABOUT THE AUTHOR

Tim Mettey serves as CEO at Matthew 25: Ministries, an international humanitarian and disaster relief organization. Tim uses his many experiences and expertise in responding to disasters around the world to set the background for his The Hero Chronicles series. Tim struggles with and has overcome multiple learning disabilities with reading and writing to create this series. Tim advocates for literacy and education worldwide and hopes his journey can be an inspiration to others. He says, "Our disabilities do not define who we are, they make us stronger."

Tim is the father of four beautiful daughters: Olivia, Cora, Noel and Ashlyn.

