 
Eric Book Series: Tale of the Zeskaya

Edenia Series

Copyright Beth Hoyer 2014

Published at Smashwords

This eBook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This eBook may be given away to other people. If you would like to share this eBook with another person, please download an additional copy for each recipient. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

Prologue

Dictator grumbled from being waked up from sleep by a hand shaking his shoulder. He opened his Human like golden eyes to glare at Brianna shaking him awake. He found sunlight glaring through the eater's hole from above.

Dictator glared in response as Brianna spoke "I'm going to Nikolas and the offsprings to tell them more adventures of the Drainers or Skyans as their referred. They seemed to like me telling them that tale despite Torrin not protesting to it."

He didn't comment a response shut his eyes ignoring Brianna sensed getting up and walking out. A roar of a Drainer sounded loudly from outside the hut making him annoyed to be woken up again. He got up with disgust running through him and without a word walked out of the hut to meet Torrin seated on a log with arms folded who got up in a fast speed move blocking his way.

He snarled "Get out of my way Torrin."

Torrin spoke "You owe me a story for handling Nikolas being touchy onto Brianna, the other night so talk on it now!"

Dictator glared at Torrin while thrusting out his sword weapon hidden in his arm via sleeve.

He found Torrin in response snarling "Nikolas tasted yucky when I fed off of him. Besides Edenia made it clear I'm to forget doing that Drainer behavior onto manoids and demand manoids to tell stories to me. It's some kind of nourishment along with sleeping for renewal of strength. So tell me a story since Nikolas appears to have learned his lesson for not touching Brianna by how far he's sitting away from her."

Dictator saw Torrin pointed in a direction he spotted Nikolas seated opposite from Brianna on another log and looked like he was sulking angry to him while appearing to be listening to her telling her tale. Dictator thrust back his sword and went to sit down on a log finding Torrin had joined him which he spoke his story he recalling it fully in his mind multiple points of views of his species dubbed Zeskaya.

Tale of the Zeskaya

Leader who with people is trapped in a cave is contacted by Merra telling them about the planetary world their trapped in is called Terrania and telling them to be patient that they'll be free. Leader gets impatient while Zeskaya argue on what name to call their species. Leader orders Zeskaya to attack the walls with their swords. Zeskaya obey as he sees some fighting each other with their swords and fists not really hurting each other. Cave rumbles jerking Zeskayas to fall to the ground as part of the cave wall cracks open forming a hole from an object that burst through then withdraws as water spills into the cave. Leader first to get up orders his people to stand fast. He goes to the hole peering through it in the water to see the massive cruise ship sink hitting the ocean floor with dirt spraying up. Leader speaks asking Merra what's the name of the ship. Merra heard by all says "Zeskaya" which Leader says that the argument and fighting on what name to call their species ends by declaring their name Zeskaya. Leader hears Merra talking to the Zeskaya and himself insisting they go in the ship and enter it adding that there are doorways in it that they can use to leave to places. Leader hears Merra tells them about Anya herself which Merra adds that Anya told her that there's a way of accessing the information to the ship by creating a Zeskaya using a piece of a dead Human named Andrew Kossman. Leader orders people to follow Merra's instructions who tell them that which they do which are to get a large sample of Kossman's hair. Leader swims out followed by Zeskaya enters the ship guided by Merra walks a maze of hallways and stairwells reaches the tube room entering it to open the tube showing the Human Andrew Kossman lying inside. Leader watches as his companions open a tube take out an axe weapon and bring it down on the tube Kossman is in forming a hole. Leader flicks out sword and grabs a handful of Kossman's hair cutting it off. He hears Merra telling them to create the figure. Leader again guided by Merra goes to the vertical tube room to a tube lying on its side. He hands hair to companion and flicks out sword to grip with his bare hand causing him to bleed which he uses blood to sprinkle the hair with which is put in the tube. Then the tube goes vertical filling with dark liquid that becomes dark as night. Leader gets bored looks explores the vertical tube room sees tube with an organ with wires attached to it in it. He hears Merra say that the organ is Anya whom he takes off his mask to stare at then puts mask on his waist via belt. Companion alerts Leader that there is something seen in the tube which Leader walks to and sees the tube water clear up showing an adult Zeskaya with sword held in his left hand eyes closed. Tube becomes horizontal and an opening forms at the bottom as Kossman is thrust out.

Kossman awakes to face the Zeskaya says his name is Kossman and mentions that the Sun Lord has fathered a son when he sees Leader's face exactly like Alexei. Leader is disbelieving which Kossman keeps insisting but Leader says that there's no way that his brother would mate with a Human using the words "Stinking Human". Zeskaya bring Kossman to cafeteria room to eat food and a Zeskaya brings folder of Eric placing it in front of him. Kossman takes out picture and says it's the son he has in his mind. Leader sees picture and exclaims it's the Dictator which Kossman groans as he recalls there being a Sun Lord nicknamed Dictator who ruled with Rakcar like a dictator which the Zeskaya overthrown. Kossman recalls Dictator's face was seen and he saying he'll return before being executed. Leader gets angry demands information about Eric referring him as Dictator which Kossman recalls in his mind about a video file which Alexei took with his own hand he saw that Alexei refers Eric as his son. Kossman takes Leader to Alexei's office shows the video which shows Alexei's face that refers Eric as his son. Kossman asks question about how a Zeskaya could live among Humans undetected which Leader interrupts with comment as a Human. Kossman leaves Leader alone to visit Eric with help of Merra to his location which he sees Rakcar and Drainer talking to Eric wearing Sun Lord clothes which he waits till Rakcar leaves then reveals himself to Drainer who is shocked. He gets Eric to reveal his face as Drainer is shocked then gets Drainer to leave and then talks to Eric about his kind along with showing him scene with hands touching him.

Kossman visits Alexei on Shadan who gives him a book which he drops off in Sun Lord's quarters in Jiang's presence then returns to the ship to an angry Leader who is annoyed about him leaving. Kossman mentions that Eric is ruler of this world called Terrania using title Sun Lord which Leader is not believing till they hear Merra sounding angry say Kossman is telling the truth. A Zeskaya arrive talking about the Sun Lord has been found on Shadan in a Human form and he has fathered a son who is not aware of his species heritage and wants to meet his son. Kossman is ordered by Leader to escort him to Eric whom they arrive in Eric's quarters with Leader talking to them about his father wanting to meet him. Eric's mate Niya gets Eric to go with them which they transport Eric to Shadan. Kossman keeps his mouth shut as he sees Alexei and hears no reaction from Leader seeing his brother. Eric he sees takes off mask walking towards Alexei who puts hand on his shoulder while putting hand on Eric's forehead who jerks his head up. Kossman listens as Alexei says the Zeskaya chant words then removes his hand from Eric's forehead to his shoulder. Kossman and Leader at Alexei's order returns Eric to his world while going back to the cruise ship. Kossman hears Leader speak sounding angry that the High Council have insulted the Zeskaya by turning one of them into a Human and will die for this.

Leader in the Zeskaya meeting room is pacing with the Seer watching him along with Zeskaya there. Seer tells him to get some sleep if he's bored for it'll help with the boredom and help him keep his strength. Leader in a cranky tone tells Seer "Go to the depths!" which one of the Zeskaya tell Leader that he's sounding like he's nearing the end of his tank and needs fuel to replenish it. Leader in a cranky tone repeats the comment which Seer tells Leader to sit and sleep in a compelling voice tone which Leader finds himself going to a chair sitting next to the Seer and leaning back closing his eyes. He passes out only opens his eyes to see a female Rakcar's face inches away from his covered face with a finger poking his arm. He keeps himself still as the female Rakcar looks towards the gated doors that are opening and darts around the chair. He sees a Zeskaya come out who pause from walking to wave a throwing ball gesture before turning around to walk into the gate. The female Rakcar he sees darts behind entering the gate which after doors are closed Zeskaya appear which Leader explodes blowing his temper yelling in a cranky tone that the Rakcar have breached their meeting spot and that female will blab it to them along with them tracking her. He quits yelling to hear Seer speak that his words aren't true about the female Rakcar for she won't be able to remember the spot and adds that she was reeking of King Winter who has been trying to find the Zeskaya's meeting room and establish contact with them hence he sending the female Rakcar thru the gate with a mental chain attached to her in his attempts to find the room and them. Leader grumbles loudly but Seer using compelling voice tone puts him to sleep which he falls asleep passing out. Leader wakes up by Kossman who tells him that a Zeskaya transported the Sun Lord out of his quarters off Terrania according to Merra and doesn't know where. Leader is grumbling about that which Seer speaks in a loud voice a comment about Zeskaya still being angry at Dictator for what he did to them when he ruled which Seer trails off. Leader is about to speak when the gated doors open and he fades out of sight as Zeskaya does the same. A Zeskaya walks in which Zeskaya appear. The new Zeskaya says he saw Dictator alive wearing some breathing tube in his nose eating food in a Rakcar eating room with Anubis, a Rakcar who he's not sure of the name and Seventy. Leader gets up from chair to speak in an angry tone that Dictator the new Zeskaya saw was not Dictator but his brother's son, his nephew Eric the Sun Lord from Terrania who looks alike Dictator. Leader gets mad angrily scolds the Zeskaya that they should get over being mad at Dictator and stop taking it out on his nephew who looks like him. He hears Seer speak in a compelling voice tone ordering him to go to sleep which Leader finds himself feeling sleepy goes to the chair next to Seer and falls asleep passing out.

Leader dreams of lighthouse and meets the Humanian called Jon who tells him of the Rakcar making a cloned copy of Eric which they accidentally sent the copy through the gate and kept the original trapped in a tomb which they discovered themselves. Leader is annoyed hearing that as the Humanian adds that he found out by checking their files on Eric from their scanner tests and managed to disable the ship that picked up Eric and killed off the Rakcar inside the ship and freed the batteries people of other races including Eric who they hooked up. Leader grumbles hearing this as the Humanian adds that he's doing a through check on the Rakcars' files on Eric just to make sure they didn't actually kill the Sun Lord and made more than one cloned copy of him. Scene to Leader goes black which he wakes up feeling his strength back and hears the Seer telling him to do what he has to do and do it now before its too late. Leader shrugs then goes through the gate boarding the Rakcar's warship which he discovers people with Human appearances and some flaring golden eyes while chattering in Summeran in one room which he sees are poking a sitting Eric whose eyes are all night sky colored. He yells an excuse me comment in Summeran to get the Humans he assumes are Builders' attention who look at him and says that he's here to get Eric and take him back to his home world by traveling through doorways an ability his kind called the Zeskaya has. Builders there seem to understand his words which they lift up Eric and he gets behind him and pushes him through the doorway transporting them to Terrania then goes back to Rakcar's ship to see the Builders are still in the room in an argument about leaving the ship or staying and waiting for others to arrive for them. Leader gets annoyed orders the Builders to leave the ship by exiting it to outside and then he turns to go only to be ordered by Builder using compelling voice to tag along with them as they leave the ship which he is compelled to tag along as they leave the ship going outside walking into the forest till the ship is out of sight. Leader once freed from the Builder's order blows his temper with an annoyed tone yelling at the Builder that he's a leader of his people who expect his leadership and his orders which a female Builder using the voice compels him to shut up and be quiet which he finds that himself silent while still raging angry which another Builder using the voice orders him to walk with them through the forest which he is compelled to obey.

Kossman enters Zeskaya meeting room asking for Leader and is told that Leader went through the gate and hasn't returned which their getting a little put out by that. Seer there speaks to Zeskaya not to worry about Leader for his tank was low which sleeping wasn't enough and has gone to get more fuel for it. Zeskayas around Seer grumble hearing his words which Seer adds that how Zeskaya do expects Leader to lead them if he is not well in mind and body something Leader is in process of fixing hence him not returning yet. Kossman feels a weird feeling asks Seer right out what Leader is really doing for his words make him feel not right. Seer speaks comment about Leader doing something as prophesied which will give the Zeskayas unexpected allies in their war against the Rakcar which he has foreseen including something he has seen he's not sure he can identify it yet. Kossman feels a little annoyed asks the Seer to describe the scene he can't identify which he think he can help with. Seer speaks that the scene is jumbled mess focusing on eaters in different backgrounds such as eaters sprouting from parts of Rakcars' warships the Planet Killer warships and several outdoor forest scenes with treetops having eaters on them. He adds that the jumbled scenes leads him to think that the Rakcars' home world planet will be attacked with their ships fired on hence the eaters appearing to come from the ships which he sees are floating over several outdoor scenes with eaters down below them such as land with treetops and open bodies of water. Seer pauses then says he sees with a confused voice that he sees the Sun Lord with open eyes all night sky colored angry look on his face with all sorts of wires attached to him while wearing his Sun Lord uniform with back on a glowing light wall that is blinking from being in a standing position and he seems to have clear glass around him like a tube and he senses the vibes from the Sun Lord is he is angry about something. Eric's twin dubbed Dick sitting in the room asleep jerks his head open yelling a nonsense sound which Kossman puts a hand on his shoulder to reassure him. Kossman asks Dick what gave him the nightmare who speaks that he had a talk with Jon a Humanian a battery from the Guardian tower who told him that the Rakcar made more than one copy of Eric about the same number of fingers on his hand and he's not sure but the files are claiming that the Rakcar hooked up the original with no success on killing him with their methods as a live battery to one of their machines on the planet which Jon is trying to find out where and contact him. Dick pauses as Kossman swears profanities which he adds that a copy identical to Eric biologically was sent thru to Terrania by Leader and mentions that Jon told him that the Rakcar made double males biologically identical to Eric and double female versions of Eric including one copy that is both male and female which is himself. Kossman stops his chatter which Dick continues speaking that Jon also told him that he's worried that the Rakcar might have accidentally hooked up the Sun Lord improperly because he's sensing something wrong within the systems and thinks the Sun Lord might have control of them like he has himself. Seer speaks interrupting Dick that the eater scenes he is seeing and seeing the Sun Lord hooked up shows that the Sun Lord probably has control of the planet's defense weapons and will turn them to fire onto the planet hence the scenes of the Rakcar's ships with eaters spurting from them. Dick gasps out loud to speak that he has a memory of the Rakcar visiting Terrania and hooking up the Sun Lord as a battery to their warship which Eric managed to break the Rakcar's control of and used the warship's internal defense systems to kill off the Rakcar inside the warship including freeing himself and others from the battery hook ups including destroying the Rakcar mind that was hooked up with them. Kossman speaks a comment saying that there goes the planet while shaking his head as Dick groans out loud another comment saying that the breathing device he's wearing helps to control his angry rages which blinds him and makes him see people with the fear emotion as distorted in one color against another colored background that is blinding him. Seer speaks in a loud voice that the Rakcar has failed to account the Sun Lord's rage episodes as reason he is wearing the breathing device which he sees Eric isn't wearing from the scene he is seeing of him. Dick speaks that the rage episodes Eric will be getting from being hooked up is how he got control of the Rakcar's warship and suspects that it'll help Eric get control of the Rakcar's planetary weapons system. Kossman hears Seer using a compelling voice tone order Dick to sleep which he sees falls asleep and he hears Seer speak that he's sensing something urgent from Jon who wants to speak to Dick hence putting him to sleep.

Leader feels annoyed finds his thoughts running through his head as he escorts the Builders through the forest. He hears that they are silent and not talking which is bothering him and finds that he still can't talk out of loud to them which is frustrating him. He and Builders come upon a limping antlered gonoid (Deer buck) that gets its antlers caught in low tree branches and is struggling to get away from the group. Leader hangs back watching as the Builders pull out knives and sees them attack the gonoid which they kill and watches them eat part of it which he finds himself feeling like needing to eat joins them putting away his mask and they share the food with him which he eats ravenously. He ignores their staring at him as he is wolfing down the food with his hands tearing at the gonoid till he finds himself no longer hungry to sit leaning back. He frowns as the Builders continue to eat the gonoid slowly then he points to his mouth and shakes his head. A male Builder compels him to speak which he says that his race have some sort immortality that keeps them deathless but they still need to sleep and eat food to function normally and do their traveling between worlds for with out the nourishment and sleep they'll literally get stuck on a world their on till they get what they need for functioning better and doing their traveling. Leader exhales a breath to watch the Builders eating the deer slowly which he goes to a log nearby to sit up leaning against it and closes his eyes falling asleep. Leader finds himself back next to lighthouse meeting Jon again who tells him of the Rakcar making five copies of Eric and what they are including one of the copies being sent to Terrania by Leader himself. Leader groans out a profanity comment as Jon adds that he has worse news which shuts him up. Jon adds that the Rakcar have hooked up the Sun Lord as a battery to one of their machines without his breathing device and was told by Dick a twin that Eric has rage episodes which the breathing device was controlling them. Leader groans out loud as Jon continues speaking that Dick has admitted getting a memory of the Rakcar visiting Terrania with one of their scout ships crashing into the planet and hooking up the Sun Lord to it which Eric used his rage episodes to gain control of the ship's internal defense systems to kill off the Rakcar and used it to free himself and others from the hook ups. Leader stops groaning to frown as Jon continues that he has found where the Sun Lord is hooked up and has been trying to contact Eric like he can contact the other batteries and hasn't been acknowledged by him but is detecting something wrong with the systems and found the problem coming from the Sun Lord which suggests that Eric is having a rage episode. Jon pauses then continues to speak that the systems he's examining show that the Sun Lord is aware of himself being a battery which his rages is fueling his awareness and has found out from the examining that Eric has discovered that he can control systems and is seeking systems involving weapons which he suspects the Sun Lord intends to use to destroy the Rakcar. Leader interrupts Jon to ask a question of where the Sun Lord is hooked up and that Jon could influence the Rakcar to get Eric out. Jon in response groans loudly to speak that the Sun Lord is hooked up in a warehouse in the Rakcar's capital city as a battery to keep reserve batteries of people alive and adds that he already tried to get the Rakcar to free Eric but the Sun Lord he detected got control of the warehouse's guards and killed the Rakcar whenever they went near his battery hooked up place. Leader speaks a question asking if a Zeskaya like himself could access the warehouse and free the Sun Lord which Jon interrupts to speak that the access to the warehouse is very heavily guarded by both machine and live guards who are a race called Samol that have no loyalty to the Rakcar and their Pharaoh that are judging by their behavior are seeing Eric as some deity leader and it was they who killed the Rakcar when they tried to get inside the warehouse to access Eric. Leader frowns as Jon adds that the Sun Lord influenced from his rage episode state from system examining has managed to contact the Samol and has formed a dialog with them talking to Eric and Eric responding which Jon has eavesdropped on their talks talking about destroying the Rakcar by getting control of the planet's weapon systems and firing them. Leader throws his hands up as Jon keeps talking that the Sun Lord's tone when Eric is electronically talking to the Samol sounds like he's angry and is controlled by his anger and has made no secret of wanting to remain hooked up hence the Samol seeing him as a deity leader for its well known among the Samol that whenever they talk to a battery, the battery in question talking back to them always pleads to be freed from hook up and it happens a lot to the Samol. Leader shakes his head with a sound of disgust as Jon includes that the Sun Lord's attitude to remain hooked up is unusual among batteries for they always don't like being hooked up and has complained to each other among the batteries about wanting to be freed from the hook up. Leader opens his mouth to speak when Jon rush speaks that Leader and his group is in a forest park in the capital city and they should follow the sunset position to get out of the park to the city where they should walk unnoticed for the city is populated by Human like races which blending in will be fine and that Leader is about to be waked up. Leader finds the scene going black finds himself back in his body to feel a hand on his shoulder shaking him awake gently. He wakes up to look at the Builder staring at him. Builder asks him a question if the Zeskaya has dreamed up a way out of this forest. Leader speaks that the way out he has dreamed requires them to follow the sun's sunset position which will lead them to a city populated by Humans and Human like races which they should be able to walk in it unnoticed. Builder he stares at forms a glare on his face to ask a question about what battery was contacting the Zeskaya. Leader speaks that his name is Leader and the battery in question is a Humanian named Jon who is in the guardian tower. Builder he stares at helps him stand up which Leader stretches when standing.

Kossman sits down staring at Dick sleeping which he leans his head back and snoozes to discover himself on a dry arid field with a lighthouse he recognizes as the Rakcar's guardian tower and he sees a Humanian standing next to Dick apparently talking to him. Kossman goes up to the two to hear the Humanian speaking that files on the original and copies don't make sense for they seem like their altered manually to keep others from knowing the truth about something. He stares at Dick who frowns and then the Humanian continues his talking to speak that he doubts the Samol would allow anyone near Eric due to seeing him deity like. Kossman frowns as the Humanian gasps that Eric he senses has accessed the files and has in response to them has disabled a Rakcaran warship forcing it to crash. The Humanian speaks to Dick telling him that he'll contact him later. Dick fades from eyes sight as the Humanian turns his attention to Kossman introducing himself as Jon. Kossman frowns as Jon speaks that he's telling the truth about the files being altered and adds that alterations have the files say that the original was destroyed and suspects that the Eric hooked up is actually a biological copy who's angry about that hence his attitude. Kossman groans out loud as Jon continues speaking that he's searching the systems with the help of other batteries for unaltered files on Eric which he suspects files on him were altered by the Samol who have no loyalty to the Rakcar and their pharaoh and are manipulating the hooked up Eric in their attempts to destroy the Rakcar. Kossman groans out a there goes the planet comment which Jon speaks that he thinks the Samol have the original alive and hidden somewhere possibly in a suspended state to keep him from moving or alerting the others of his presence. Kossman frowns as Jon adds that Kossman should go to Terrania and tell the copy Eric about this without mentioning what he told him alone and that Kossman is about to be waked by Dick. Kossman sees the scene goes black as he feels a hand touching his arm shaking it which he jerks his eyes open to see Dick leaning over his chair with a frown on his face. Kossman asks Dick a question what was wrong which Dick replies that he keeps getting an image of something that is bothering him and needs someone to mind walk him to speak what's he's seeing. Kossman hears the Seer speak that he should go to Terrania and bring a mind walker to scan Dick's mind. Kossman nods his head and gets up going through the gate.

Kossman with Jiang and Niya arrive through the gate to the room which Kossman speaks that he has brought a mind walker and the Sun Lord's mate as Zeskayas appear in the room. He sees Niya has a look of disgust on her face when she eyes Dick who appears to be frowning with eyes staring at the floor. Kossman speaks Basic to Jiang and Niya while translating his words in the Zeskaya's language telling the two that Dick has an image of something in his mind that he's having trouble with and it's bothering him and needs a mind walker to scan his mind to see what it is. He stares at Jiang who turns his head towards Dick with eyes narrowed. He translates Jiang's talk who is talking about Dick seeing something cloud colored with night sky outlines like a box he appears to be lying in while still wearing his Sun Lord uniform. His eyes in the image are open staring at what appears to be a box cover an arm length above him while lying on something that appears to be hard of metal while feeling he can't move any of his body except his eyes. He is feeling a coldness feeling in the middle of his chest and feels something is pressing on it with a prick of pain attached to it. His eyes see the top of a storm cloud tube with two tubal wires leading to part of the night sky outline and he feels that he is still wearing his breathing device but has an oxygen mask covering just his mouth. His eyes travel around the box seeing above his forehead with his eyes looking further up attached to the box is his breathing device with tubes going down to his nose with a clear oxygen mask part on top of the device that is attached to the box cover by two straps of cloth attached to it. He senses movement to look ahead of him to see the whiteness is gone held up like it's a blanket cloth by a hand with night sky cloth attached to it and he sees a plant colored Rakcaran face with Rakcaran eye color that is more Human like is leaning over the box staring at him while the face is surrounded by a night sky colored hood and clothing in the same color attached to the hood. He sees the manoid is jerking back and forth a little bit while staring at him with narrowed Human like Rakcaran colored eyes then he sees another like the manoid that doing similar jerking while leaning over staring at him while seeing the other's mouth move and sees the first manoid's mouth is moving as if their both in conversation which continues as both are appearing to be talking to each other. He sees them both lift their heads looking at one direction which one holding the blanket places over the box blocking his eyes sight and he is feeling a range of emotions running through him while focusing on confusion and sleepiness which makes him closes his eyes.

Kossman translating at the moment hears Jiang speak that the scene in Dick's mind has gone dark and he's not sensing anything more from Eric. Kossman translates that comment then hears the Seer speaking in a language while understanding him and seeing that Jiang and Niya understand the Seer that the race Eric saw was the Samol who have no loyalty to the Rakcar who rules Rakcara. Seer continues as Kossman frowns that the Samol he senses are manipulating things including the hooked up Eric which he adds is a copy of the original. Seer asks Kossman a question on that theory which Kossman speaks in Zeskaya language while translating his words in Basic that a component told him that files on Eric were altered manually including saying that the original was destroyed which the component told him that the hooked up Eric has accessed the files and in response has brought down a Rakcaran warship. Seer speaks that the Samol must have altered the files in their agenda to get the hooked up Eric to access the planet's weapons and hid the original Eric keeping him alive and out of the Rakcar's hands. He hears Niya groan loudly as Seer orders him to bring Jiang and Niya back to Terrania for there's nothing more they can do here. Kossman obeys bringing them through the gate which they come out of Eric's bedroom to the living room.

Leader and group reach the city where they see Humans walking by that don't notice them. Leader feels creep out like someone is watching him and senses hostility from the Humans towards the Builders and before he can comment on that the Humans point guns at the group firing them which darts hit each member of the group and they go down unconscious. Leader wakes up in a chair restrained to it that is moving to see a large towering building ahead of him with a doorway opening to see Samol appear from hidden forms in front of him. He hears a male voice in Human tones speaking that this is Mesan's Curse and he's for the Samol to do what they want with it. Samol he sees one walk behind his chair and he is pushed into the building to see a large room with tubes holding people at the walls surrounding a tube with multiple tube machinery at the sides and the bottom parts with a familiar figure in the middle of the room. He sees the figure in the middle tube is Eric who has all black eyes with an angry expression on his face. He frowns as he looks around the room to spot at Eric in his tube's left side is a large rectangular object with cloth covering it with part of it up to see two Samol standing besides it with one holding the cloth up. He sees that the cloth covered object is a metal rectangular box with tubes on the bottom going into the floor which the box gives him a strange feeling he can't identify. He is brought to Eric's tube as the two Samol pull the cloth covering the box and then stand facing in his direction eyes narrowed in glares at him. He once he's near Eric's tube frowns as he hears an electronic voice speaking in Rakcaran language which he understands the words sounding like Eric's voice speaking in angry tones asking the Samol who the new visitor is. He hears a Samol voice from behind him speaking in Rakcaran language answer Eric's question saying that the new visitor is a race enemy of the Rakcar called Mesan's Curse Rakcaran name for the walking dead who they brought to show to Eric they refer as Divine One who has repeatedly asked for the presence of one Mesan's Curse. He frowns as Eric speaks praising the Samol for getting him one Mesan's Curse and says that they have captured the right one he had in mind from meeting them before on his former home world. Leader stares at Eric with a confused expression as he is frowning some more inwardly wondering what Eric had in mind requesting him to be present in Eric's presence. He keeps his mouth shut as Eric pauses then speaks sounding like Eric is talking to him that he is safe from harm here but will having to remain restrained to the chair for his safety from the Rakcar who will try to harm him should they be successful in sneaking into the Samol's temple. Leader hearing Samol's temple forms a frown on his face while thinking to himself a question what the Samol have told Eric as Eric continues talking sounding like he's talking to the Samol that he has successfully brought down a Rakcaran warship from his testing his control on systems. He hears the Samol from standing next to him praise Eric for the successful test and asks to try his control test on a Rakcaran Planet Killer Warship and see if he can bring that ship down. He hears nothing from Eric in response and notices as he stares at Eric, Eric's all night sky colored eyes narrow with a concentrating like look on his face replacing the angry look on it. Leader has enough of silence speaks out loud a question to the Samol standing next to his chair what they had in mind for Eric he refers as Eric to do for them which he finds his mouth clamped shut by a bare clawed hand that reminds him of Eric which he sees two figures appear from hidden forms in front of him with one hand covering his mouth. He stiffens seeing the figures are females with long night sky colored hair and eyes and facials that reminds him of Eric while seeing them wearing Eric's breathing tubes on them along with clothing that is similar to Eric's Sun Lord uniform. He sees the females' eyes are narrowed with glares on their faces as one of them remove their hand from his mouth as another puts a finger to her lips which Leader gets the sign for quiet and watches as they fade from his eyes sight turning hidden. He looks around the room and his eyes as if drawn focus on the covered with cloth rectangular box which he again gets the strange feeling and stares at it which he gets sleepy shuts his eyes bowing his head. He dreams a vision of an eyes' sight point of view of Eric with confusion on his face while wearing his breathing tube sitting in a chair with wheels on it underneath a spotlight surrounded by inky darkness. The view continues to show a Rakcar wearing a helmet with lights coming from it walking in view from behind Eric who pushes the chair out of the spotlight which the vision continues to show eyes' sight following the Rakcar as if the person is walking which follows the Rakcar pushing Eric going through a long cave passageway lighted by the helmet's lights on the helmet the Rakcar is wearing and entering a small all metal like room at the end which the eyes sight walks to stand in front of Eric staring at him who's eyes appear to settle on the eyes' sight as if seeing the person which the confusion remains on his face as the eyes sight looks at the Rakcar who has back to them touching a console on the wall which doors slide closed and there's a humming sound that lasts a long time as lights above flare on which the Rakcar takes off the helmet putting it on a hook on the wall on his left as the doors slide open showing a lighted cloud colored hallway with lights on the sides blaring it. The Rakcar pulls Eric's chair with hands on it while walking sideways in the hallway with the eyes' sight following which focuses on Eric whose eyes are narrowed with a concentrating look on his face while staring at the eyes' sight. The Rakcar reaches a large room Leader dreaming the vision recognizes as the room where Eric in the tube is judging by the looks of it. The Rakcar turns the chair around going towards a rectangular box which multiple Samol appear from hidden forms which the Rakcar speaks in Rakcaran language in a Human voice tone which Leader understands the words saying that he has brought the original of the copies the Sun Lord as requested by the Samol and have altered the files to say that the original was destroyed which the Samol he sees all nod their heads in agreement as the Rakcar continues to speak that he hasn't seen the two female copies which two female voices speaks in Rakcaran language that their here and won't interfere which he sees the Rakcar turn around to face the eyes' sight point of view with a frown on his face eyes narrowed as the eyes' sight walks forwards to stand next to the Rakcar who continues to look at the view. Leader dreaming frowns as he realizes that the eyes' sight point of view belonged to one of the female copies of Eric himself which he continues to have the vision. He sees the Samol surround Eric while seeing one holding up a syringe injecting it in Eric's neck who slumps over and watches as one of them open the rectangular box by its lid as Eric is lifted up and carried to the box placed inside it. He watches as they paw Eric repeatedly with their clawed hands and one holds up a thin rectangular box with tubes attached to it to hook onto the lid while putting an oxygen mask on top of it as he sees them put an oxygen mask onto the lower half of Eric's face then one of them holds a large syringe with a big needle and tubes attached to it coming from the lid sticking it in Eric's chest then they close the lid backing up as two Samol cover the box with a cloud covered cloth completely covering the box then step back. The Rakcar speaks that the Rakcar with manipulations will put a biological copy of the original in the main battery tube soon. He hears a female voice speaking that the Rakcar has to remove the biological copy's breathing device for him to gain control of systems and mentions having a memory of the original hooked up to a Rakcaran warship with his breathing device removed and used his rages to gain control of the Rakcaran warship's internal defense systems successfully destroying the Rakcar and the Rakcaran battery and freeing himself and others from the battery systems. One of the Samol walks to the eyes' sight to stand in front while praising for telling them that which would make it easier for their plans for the Rakcar to come to true just the way they planned which two female voices speaking in unison speak their agreement to the Samol's words. He hears the Rakcar speak the he has to be going and doesn't want to be around when the Rakcar make an appearance which the eyes' sight see him walking off into an opening in the wall which doors slide close behind him. The eyes' sight turns towards the Samol who speaks that they like the Samol should hide in hidden forms and be ready for the Rakcar's arrival and make sure that the Divine One referring to Eric is hooked up without his breathing device for their plans to come to fruition. The eyes' sight bobs up and down like their nodding the head then the Samol in the view fade from sight going hidden as the scene goes black which Leader realizes that Eric the original is in the rectangular box trapped in it hidden from the Eric in the tube. Leader jerks his eyes open as a hand feeling like one of the female versions of Eric is patting his cheek which he raises his head up to see no females in his eyes sight while feeling the hand stop patting his cheek and he shifts his eyes towards Eric whose expression changes from concentrating to a glare with mouth in a thin line and senses Eric is angry which he frowns. He sees a Samol walk in his line of sight to stand in front of the tube with back to him while hearing the Samol speaking in a questioning tone asking Eric calling him Divine One what is the matter for he senses powerful angry vibes coming from him and wants to know what the problem is. Leader stiffens as he hears an electronic roar sound in Eric's voice in an angry tone and sees the Samol jerk backwards hitting the floor appearing to be shot dead with body and clothes falling apart into dark night sky colored liquid that pools the metal floor turning into dirt. He feels a clawed hand touch his chin and a Samol voice whispering in Rakcaran language sounding feminine in his ear to speak a question out loud to Divine One on why their companion was shot dead. Leader stiffens as an image of Eric standing underneath a spotlight surrounding by inky darkness lifting up a finger to his lips doing the sign for quiet with a glare on his face flashes in his mind's eye which he whispers to the Samol in Rakcaran language that the Divine One is busy concentrating on his work doing what they requested and doesn't want to be distracted or disturbed by the Samol hence him shooting their companion for that. He hears the Samol give off a groaning tone before whispering in his ear how he figured that out which he replies whispering that he saw the Divine One's expression change to anger and heard the Samol remark about sensing anger from him which he assumes that the Divine One is busy doing what the Samol requested taking down a Rakcaran Planet Killer warship which is giving him problems judging by him giving off anger and doesn't want to be distracted or disturbed by the Samol in the process of working out the problems. He shuts his mouth as the Samol again gives off a groaning tone and hears the Samol whisper that their glad that Mesan's Curse is here helping them understand the Divine One's mood for its not the first time he shot one of the Samol dead for he has done that before three times and refuses to give them an explanation whenever they asked him and adds that the Divine One like the times before shooting a Samol gave off a roar sound in angry tones before he shot a Samol dead. Leader whispers asking a question about what the three shot Samol before the fourth was shot was doing before Divine One shot them. He hears the Samol reply whispering that the first Samol was revealing themselves to Divine One to form a dialog with him which the Samol wound up shot in the process of that first meeting which they had to use begging and pleading for peace which Divine One started talking to them. Leader frowns as he whispers that the Divine One must be aware of being hooked up as a battery by the Rakcar and thought the Samol was working for them as caretakers hence him shooting one of them. He hears the Samol whisper that the Samol appeared from their hidden states to fight off Rakcar from near the entrance to the building who wound up dead and during them savoring their victory of the battle the Divine One asked a question of what was going on which one of the Samol told him and wound up shot dead which their still confused about. Leader whispers that the victorious Samol must have spoken in a bragging voice tone which the Divine One didn't like hearing that tone shot the Samol for speaking to him like that. He hears the Samol again groan then whisper that the third Samol appeared from hidden state behind the Divine One's tube and was shot dead which Leader whispers that the Divine One was defending himself thinking the tube would be attacked for he suspects that the tube's controls are on the back of it which the Divine One was trying to keep intact. He hears the Samol again groan then he darts his eyes towards Eric as he hears an angry roar sound and hears Eric's electronic voice sounding angry speaking without indication who he is talking to speaking that he's sick and tired of being manipulated and will do what he'll do to get what he wants while adding words about he can play this manipulating game too and will not be stopped till he has achieved his goal followed by another roaring sound then silence. Leader notices out of the corners of his eyes the Samol standing next to him scratch their heads with confused expressions on their faces. He stares at Eric's face that shows anger with narrowed eyes and stiffens as he realizes that Eric is aware of being manipulated by the Samol which dawns on him that the Samol want Eric to gain control of the Rakcara planet's planetary defense weapons systems to fire it on the planet in their goal of destroying the Rakcar. He frowns as he hears a voice in his mind sounding like Eric speaking introducing himself as Divine One and adds that the Samol can be manipulated too like their doing to him along with adding that he detected the files on the original Eric were altered manually which led him to believe that there's something sinister going on hence him ordering them to capture and bring him a Mesan's Curse for communicating on sharing his findings to the Mesan's Curse and has since detecting the files' alterations having a dialog with a battery component named Jon who has been trying to contact him which he has acknowledged after ignoring him awhile after himself was hooked up as a battery. Leader keeps his face from changing expressions as he stares at Eric who he senses to his shock can see him and has his eyes staring at him. He mentally speaks that he knows where the original is which he is interrupted by Eric mentally saying that the female copies have mentally blabbed to him the original's location which is the box covered by a cloth sitting next to his tube after they contacted him mentally and was told by them that a Rakcar with a Human voice tone has admitted altering the files manually in front of them just before the Samol put the original in the box. Leader mentally speaks that Jon can contact people through them asleep which Eric mentally speaks that Jon has told him that along with adding that Jon has been in contact with another copy who is relaying information from the both of them to Mesan's Curse. He keeps his expression the same as Eric continues that he has already told Jon to tell the copy to tell Mesan's Curse, Leader's location along with adding that he has been in contact with the female copies who are at the location spying on the Samol and doing manipulating work on them while checking on the status of the original in the box who is in some frozen state with an active mind according to scanner files on the box. He frowns inwardly as Eric continues mentally speaking that Jon is still working on contacting the original and hasn't had any success which Jon suspects that the box according to its scanner files is to keep the original frozen but awake hence the scanners saying that the original's mind is active which suggests that he can't fall asleep due to the frozen state keeping him like that. Leader wakes up to eye the box and hears Divine One he assumes he'll call him get into a verbal argument with the Samol about not being honest with him about being a copy of someone called Eric who's still alive. He eyes the box to see Samol back away from it and hears breaking sounds along with the cover removing itself to see Eric come out that fades from view which he feels the females of Eric picking on his restraints which he yells in Basic a comment of getting him out of there and finds himself freed by hands pulling him that he senses is Eric. He leads them and females to the entrance only to feel Eric repeatedly jerk his arm halting his process several times that have him confused but ignores it to get through the gate into the Zeskaya room. He sees Eric target a Zeskaya he recognizes as Rule Breaker who admits the transporting then Eric gets restrained into the chair which Leader sits and eyes Eric who appears to snooze which he puts on his mask then wakes up looking calm and hears Seer mention something about Eric's family due to needing to admit it which he admits that Dictator is his father and sees Eric is not surprised by it but orders Eric to go home which he watches him leave. He frowns as another Eric appears in a flash of light minus a jacket who says that he was taken out of being a battery by Rakcar who told him to go through the gate and he sensed something like a bomb placed on his back found himself some where else which he yanked off his jacket then found himself here. He listens as Divine One explains that according to files there's someone called Zerra who's similar to Terrania's Merra identified as a mind walker and that if she talks all the Rakcar can hear her and would destroy her if she said anything due to the Rakcar want her to be quiet and not talk at all. He hears Seer cryptically tell him to switch places with Rule Breaker due to seeing something suspicious which he obeys and eyes the gate to see Eric come out with anger on his face that flashes a weapon which he realizes is Dictator his father and sees Rule Breaker get stabbed in the chest followed by the girls and males of Eric capture Dictator to put him in a chair and watches his father appear to fall asleep still radiating of anger. He continues to eye Dictator who dreams of Jon the Humanian who gives a full summary of what happened to the Zeskaya after he was overthrown and mentions having an idea of having a Zeskaya hooked up in a copy of Eric's place to gain control of the planet's defense weapons to fire it onto the planet something he was working on but couldn't access and thinks a Zeskaya will have full access to that. Dictator doesn't say a word wakes up still angry frees himself and darts through the gate which Leader orders Zeskaya to let him go seeing that Dictator is in a bad mood and not willing to talk. Leader doesn't wait long as Dictator arrive looking calm that scold him for dumping him in Terrania and doesn't find it amusing. Leader doesn't comment but sees Dictator look up as if confused then disappears in a flash of light. He hears Divine One say that it's Zerra doing it due to that Merra could transport people place to place and that's a method she used. He doesn't comment figures its best to keep his mouth shut. Dictator wounds up finding himself in a jail cell with another Zeskaya there and hears from the Zeskaya that their in King Winter's castle and that the male has Rakcaran eyes and has made it clear to him that he'll find their meeting spot and will reveal it to others. Dictator doesn't comment sees King Winter and watches as the male opens the gate by mental power and figures that he'll have to kill King Winter due to his nosiness and influence of Rakcaran instincts speeds out sword out and cuts King Winter's arms then cuts off his head which he hears from the Zeskaya that he'll take the King Winter crown due to that he'll keep it out of the Rakcar's hands. Dictator speaks that he better keep it safe and hears a humming sound figures it's a gate travels to a cave and spots the gate then spots whirling small tornadoes heading towards him runs to the gate throwing himself halfway through it and finds himself in the Zeskaya room demanding them to help as he finds his legs are caught by something keeping him from pulling into the room and finds himself yanked through the gate and sees the whirling tornados along with feeling a prick of pain in his neck passes out unconscious. Leader demands to Seer why they couldn't help Dictator as requested which Seer says that Dictator would be cut in half if they helped him due to someone caught his legs and that the gate would do the cutting. Leader doesn't find it amusing as Seer doesn't say much. Dictator wakes up in a chair in a familiar throne room facing the Rakcar's pharaoh and sees whirling tornadoes in the room which one turn into a Rakcar and recalls his capture by his sons seeing them appear from whirling tornado forms grabbing him on the arms and hitting him on the head with their weapons and making him woozy enough to not fight back which they hauled him to a gate and threw him in it. He listens as the Pharaoh orders the Rakcar to keep him alive due to recognizing him as an exiled Mesan's Curse who used to lead the Mesan's Curse but was tossed out of position and according to records disappeared through a gate by them. He gets freed dismissed by the Pharaoh travels around exploring the palace and city seeing things are different from before and recalls every word of Jon the Humanian's conversation in his mind. Leader gets warned that he'll get captured, by Seer ignores the warning to travel out to among the city and finds Dictator, shows his form and gets knocked out unconscious. Dictator removes Leader's mask and keeps it on his person then convinces the Rakcar appearing around him to hook Leader up as a battery due to that the Mesan's Curse admitted to taking out a battery and destroying it. Rakcar obey to his suggestion which he tags along and witnesses them doing it which he meets the Samol hanging around after Rakcar hook up Leader which he senses are wearing tech like the Rakcar are wearing due to them appearing as whirling tornadoes and appearing with whining squeal sounds. He doesn't comment eyes Leader to see his son's eyes open with some expression of anger forming on the face. Leader comes to finding himself on a dry arid field meets Jon the Humanian who tells him that he's hooked up as a battery in place of an Eric dubbed Divine One. Leader growls an angry sound as Jon cuts off his talk which he sees as if knowing it the reason why Zerra would transport Zeskaya out who look up while in the room is that because the room is underneath the throne room and Zerra doesn't want Zeskaya to know of it. He realizes while staring at the ground that he can access the planet's defense systems and that Jon ordered Dictator to allow a Zeskaya to be captured and put in place as a battery just to gain access to them. Dick falls asleep in the room dreams of Jon and Leader witnesses Jon tell Leader of the hook up and sees Leader look away with some far away expression on his face that changes to anger which Jon appears in his eyes sight telling him to tell the others that Leader is hooked up in place. Dick obeys telling the Zeskaya in carefully worded sentences of the hook up which Zeskaya aren't happy hearing till Divine One screams out a nonsense sound and yells that when he was hooked up he tried to access the planet's defense systems but couldn't and senses that Leader can access them. He hears from Seer speaking that he mentioned having a vision of seeing multiple eaters all over the place in Rakcara and sees the planet's weapons firing on the planet including taking down warships regardless their a planet killer or not. Dictator goes to the doorway to stare at the sky and continues to stare at it ignoring the Samol asking him why he's doing it. He doesn't comment as he goes back inside to Leader and stares at his son still displaying that angry expression on his face. Leader gain control of the planet's defense weapons fires it at the planet hitting targets he sees through computer are important to the Rakcar and continues to fire the weapons while taking out Rakcaran warships in the process. Dictator in the room hears explosion sounds sounding from outside goes to the doorway with the Samol to spot multiple eaters along with seeing some eater bolts firing from above hitting places in the city which he hears a Samol comment that they better do what it takes to protect that Mesan's Curse hooked up for he's responsible for the situation happening at the moment. Dictator senses Samol gone inside continues to stand in the doorway staring at the city watching places explode in eaters and continues to watch eater balls from the sky hitting making eaters in its place at the buildings. He sees whirling tornadoes heading towards him folds his arms and stares at one while seeing it come nearer and nearer which the tornadoes stop along with one appearing to be a Rakcar that speaks that this Mesan's Curse can see them hidden due to that he was staring at one in the eyes. Dictator decides to lie to the Rakcar speaks a sarcastic comment to the Rakcar that he's not the only one who can see them and that the Mesan's Curse is hidden in the room protecting the battery and will do what it takes to keep him hooked up along with destroying the Rakcar in the process if they try to take him out. Dictator sees a whirling tornado come from behind him heading towards the appeared Rakcar and watches as the Rakcar gives off a comment saying that the Mesan's Curse is lying about this but cuts off his talk as he is abruptly lifted up and thrown in the air backwards and sees the Rakcar's head smash into pieces along with body shriveling up to liquid turning into dirt. Dictator speaks eyeing the tornadoes what that Rakcar talking about he just proved it by having a Mesan's Curse attack him and wants to know what the Rakcar will plan to do about it as he eyes the familiar whirling tornado go to stand next to him hearing a growling sound of a Samol along with other growling sounds of other Samol eyes the whirling tornadoes in front of him he assumes are Rakcar to see some of them dart away while others dart towards him which he yells out commands to the Samol telling them the Rakcar's locations and watches the Samol take down the Rakcar seeing them all appear after being knocked to the ground and bodies become flatter with liquid pouring out along with dirt and sees their heads crumble up. He continues to stand in the doorway watching the Samol as whirling tornadoes enter the doorway into the room and keeps guard while standing in the doorway to see a whirling tornado stand next to him he senses is a Samol and keeps his mouth shut about it continues to watch for any Rakcar arriving which he finds their nearby hanging around as whirling tornadoes and Rakcar forms appearing to be conversing with each other while pointing fingers at him which he figures that they'll take him out and speaks that to the Samol next to him of that which the Samol asks him how he could see the Rakcar and he honestly admits how he sees them along with the Samol and others in hidden forms. He hears a comment of it explains things that makes his suspiciousness hit him comes to realize that the Samol can see people as the same way he can see them when their under the tech's power in some hidden state. He doesn't comment about it keeps his mouth shut eyes the Rakcar till a Samol puts a hand on his shoulder and orders him to go inside and hears that they can see what he sees the Rakcar as and that he just explained it to them that had them confused on what it was. Dictator obeys goes inside to stand next to the tube holding Leader to eye his son still having that angry expression on his face. Dictator comments loudly how the Rakcar figured out that this Mesan's Curse was responsible for the damage done to the planet hears from Leader sounding in an electronic voice that shocks him that the Rakcar kept some kind of sensor aimed at batteries and the planet's defense systems due to that they were aware that batteries could control systems from Jon the Humanian revealing himself of doing some kind of controlling which the Rakcar put the sensor in place just to make sure they could take out the battery who was controlling their planet's weapons and mentions to Dictator that the Samol will have more people coming to help keep the Rakcar off of him. Dictator frowns as lights flash all over the place and sees that their all Zeskaya which he yells to them that he can see the hidden people and so can the Samol and that they have to be careful on where they go around here to protect Leader so that the Samol won't accidentally target them. Dictator sees the Zeskaya all fade from view turning into whirling tornados that form a two rank circle around the tube with him in the middle of it besides Leader hooked up. He continues to eye the doorway watching and listening for anything while continuing to hear explosions continuing sounding loudly outside. He hears a Samol loudly speaking that the firing Mesan's Curse is targeting the Rakcar's power generators from the looks of it while firing at Rakcaran targets that attempt to shoot the battery building in an attempt to take him down and stop the firing. Dictator feels pain in his front to discover a whirling tornado itches away from him which backs up as he finds the scene changed to show a gate and gets an image of a place in his mind while figuring out that he's getting medical help darts through the gate and passes out unconscious.

Dictator paused from talking to frown sensing the sunlight was gone as he heard from Torrin "Anything else regarding what happened next?"

He gave Torrin a glare and spoke "Dictator woke up on this moon world Edenia healed of his medical problems. Edenia via dream insisted that he stay and not leave."

He paused from talking to frown while staring at the campfire only to hear a loud Yeer sounding of Torrin's voice.

He glared at Torrin who spoke "You sound like you have more to say actually."

Dictator noticed Brianna was still telling her story to Nikolas who was staring at her to his disgust with an amused expression on his face.

He made a disgust sound only to hear "Ignore Nikolas mooning after your female. Just keep telling more of your story. What happened next anyway?"

Dictator glared at Torrin who spoke in response "Alexei what happened to him actually? And explain why Brianna was heard calling you Eric at a meeting. What's up with that when your name is Dictator?"

Dictator spoke "Because Eric is my descendant who was paired to Brianna who got her body transported off Terrania to Edenia by someone doing it and healed her of her medical problems. I think that transportation was done when Edenia ordered Humania to break away from Terrania. As far as I know she's orbiting this weird planet in the sky that is a sunset color-"

"Just tell me what happened to Alexei and quite it with the planet's shades." He was interrupted.

Dictator spoke in response with disgust within his voice tone the story.

Kaison a Drainer, in Airplane hanger room of the water ship the Zeskaya keeps doors open by saying he hears a drainer sucking neck sound. Goes out in the darkness and returns with two wolves on his shoulders and a female holding his arm looking out of it. Their sent to medical.

Alexei wakes up in morning told of the wolves and female they identified as Sue Ulian. Alexei goes to medical bay to see one wolf lying unconscious as the other wolf awake snapping at people trying to help. Alexei goes to snapping wolf and touches shoulder refusing to back down. Wolf changes form to Bruce Arkov, his granddaughter's husband with anger on his face. Alexei signs the words "Lisha's Grandfather" which Bruce's anger leaves him. Bruce hauls up the wolf and follows Alexei to a room where Lisha in wolf form is laid on the double bed with Bruce lying on her in a wolf form. Alexei stays in room waiting as Lisha wakes up turning form as Bruce does the same. She identifies Alexei to Bruce as her grandfather from her father's side and tells Alexei of King Winter arriving in the prison cell their kept in with Sue and takes them out. Lisha falls asleep with Bruce cuddling her. Alexei goes to visit Sue who tells him of Bruce raping Lisha in her presence after her being told of him shooting Kurt. She adds she saw the video of Eric killing Kurt with those two present and saw Bruce get mad throwing a tantrum which Lisha had to calm him down. Sue adds King Winter arrives and took them out of the prison to here where he sucked her neck drinking from her then left her as Kaison arrives to bring her here. Alexei later as night arrives told of Lisha and Bruce fighting in their wolf forms. Lisha has been heard screaming in terror in her Human form when Bruce and she are in Human forms in their room. As a result Alexei learns that they are kept separated in different rooms. Bruce is kept in his room by a restraint he is wearing that will knock him out if he leaves his room while Lisha is in her room demanding to be left alone. Alexei goes to his quarters to lie on the couch. He gets dream of a hung Lisha with a ropey object around her neck attached to a beam in a room. Alexei can't sleep goes to Lisha's room turns on the light while closing the door. He sees ropey object next to armchair Lisha is sitting in with a glare on her face. He goes to her asking in sign language if she is alright. Lisha attacks him with her fists knocking him to the floor. Alexei manages to sign "you have children. Don't abandon them."

Lisha knocks him out with several fists in his face. Alexei astral projects himself seeing her get up walking towards the door which slams open as three figures he recognizes as the Elementals walk in the room. Lisha he sees pauses from movements as Teorjer zaps his body with electricity bolts. Alexei finds himself back in his body gets up and touches Lisha's shoulder getting her attention.

He signs "You under the virus wrote that you had children. There are three of them in front of you."

Lisha he sees has shocked expression on her face has he hears a loud voice in his head say "Mother."

He sees Lisha turn her head to stare at the Elementals while walking towards them. Elementals group hug Lisha then let go as Alexei signs to her that Sue told him that she saw Bruce forcing himself on Lisha herself. Alexei adds with a question of what's going on. Lisha signs that one of her pregnancies while underneath the virus' control was a result of a rape by a male who is dead and she has been scared to mate in the Human form. Bruce she adds has been trying to get her to get over being scared and mate with him in the Human form. Lisha includes that she thinks Bruce got mad at her for letting fear control her and forced her to mate him in the Human form which she got upset about along with getting freaked out. Alexei signs that she should go to Bruce and work things out. Lisha he sees leaves the room with him following. He stands in hallway and sees her enter Bruce's room closing the door.

Alexei hears Elementals say voice in head "Elementals take Alexei to someplace."

He protests as a ball of fire water and electricity surround him which he moves his feet feeling the ball's movements. The ball reverts to show a familiar room which is where the Zeskaya meet.

Alexei narrows his eyes and speaks "Ay Kabaiya, we will live forever, live forever" in foreign language which the Zeskaya appear from hidden invisibility states.

One of the Zeskaya he sees walks forwards to place hand on his shoulder while speaking in a familiar voice "Brother."

Alexei puts his hand on the Zeskaya's shoulder as he mentions fathering a son named Eric who's appearance is twin to a Sun Lord called Dictator. He hears his brother speak that they have met Eric courtesy of the Elementals bringing him here along with the Seer here in the room identifying him as his son. Alexei is returned, goes to his office to stand staring out the window which blast doors slam over them along with the doors to the room slamming close. Alexei is confused takes out cell phone asking what's going on. Leland says something like apologizing and that he was ordered and mentions Alexei's name which Alexei asks who ordered him to do this. Leland says Medical Doctor Samantha along with words that the position is for Humans and not non Humans. Alexei hears a dial tone followed by a beeping sound that indicates that his cell phone is no longer working goes to sit in chair at the desk while staring at the door. He puts cell phone on the desk and orders lights off verbally which they turn off. In the darkness with him seeing night vision he stares at the doorway to the room thinking of his Granddaughter Lisha and along with memory of meeting her in private on her wedding day. He recalls Lisha told him he was not human because she could sense that. Alexei remembers leaving during the wedding to the cruise ship to sit in his quarters staring at the walls with her comment echoing in his head. He is brought out of his reverie when the lights turn on by themselves followed by smoke coming from the grating on the ceiling billowing into the room.

The smoke makes him feel sleepy and as he falls unconscious he mutters "Goodbye Lisha."

Alexei finds himself floating above his body watching the scene as people wearing riot gear and air breathing masks come into the room with one he recognizes as Doctor Samantha pushing a wheelchair towards him. He watches as the doctor places an oxygen mask on his face and the riot geared people place him on the wheelchair and doctor wheels him out of the room. Alexei follows her escorted by the rioted geared people pushing him to a set of stairs where the riot geared people carry the wheelchair down till they reach the end of the stairs and there's a door in the wall with a console. Alexei recognizes it as the cryogenic tube room and watches as the wheelchair is lowered and the doctor pushes it into the room to one of the consoles in the wall which a riot geared person presses a button and a tube bed comes out with no glass cover on it. He watches as the doctor takes off the oxygen mask off his face as the riot geared people put his body onto the bed as a glass cover comes over his body and he sees the doctor speaking words unheard to the console next to the tube which the tube goes into the wall. Alexei finds himself in a lying position as if he is in the tube in the wall staring at the blue laser light that is going up and down his body with glass over it. He finds that his eyes are closed as he stares at the laser moving up and down his body. He mentally speaks to himself words about Lisha who he won't see again thinking that the tube is set to keep him asleep till his body's functions shut down till he dies and they'll keep him in it preserved for further tests after his death. He mentally thinks that he won't be around to see if Lisha will have more children fathered by Bruce for he realizes what the blue laser light is and groans recognizing it as a body monitor that is monitoring his body as the tube is keeping him frozen but alive to live another day. He groans to himself that his knowledge of things from having his high position must be why the doctor had him put in a tube for they couldn't let him live among the population with mind walking Highlanders scanning people while learning secrets from their scans. Alexei finds himself back in his body feeling cold and feels a vibration of the tube bed moving and feels a prick of pain in his neck which he jerks his eyes open while coughing. He sees Lieutenants Janie Conway and James Jones standing next to his bed both with concern on their faces. Janie speaks that James hacked into Doctor Samantha's personal file in the computer which reveals her as General Jon Logan's baby sister. Alexei is annoyed as he recalls General Logan is an enforcer of the Humans hold high positions and not non Humans rule along with another memory of a ten year old girl he knows is called Sam. He gets up with the help of Janie and James and walks to the door of the room which opens to show Doctor Samantha with a glare on her face and four armed riot geared guards. Alexei speaks that Samantha is General Logan's baby sister who he met when she was ten years old and adds that it explains why she seemed familiar when she started working here and now recognizes her. He adds that she's a spy who has been leaking secret information to General Logan and the higher ups in the government due to them seemingly knowing things that are secret around here. Samantha he sees gets an angry look on her face as one of her guards grab her as another injects her with a needle knocking her out. Guards haul Samantha to the tube Alexei vacated and put her in it with Alexei locking her in by his hand print as code. Alexei mentions to Janie and James that he's not Human which Janie interrupts that they don't care. James speaks that they rather have someone they know and trust regardless their Human or not than a Human who's a stranger leading them. Janie says that its not just them thinking that but all over the cruise ship with some of Logan's supporters forced to accept Alexei as their leader after word got out that Samantha was Logan's baby sister and a spy who was blabbing secret things to other people. Alexei goes to airplane hanger room escorted by Janie and James who he sees soldiers do hand salute whenever he walks by them on the way to the room and in the room. One of the officers Kenny stops in front of Alexei and says with disgust in his voice that General Logan is aboard and is being escorted to Alexei's location. Alexei can see that Kenny has a disgusted expression on his face. Alexei stands and waits as General Logan a long haired blonde with goggle sunglasses over his eyes on his face and gloved hands arrive. Logan is rude to Alexei speaking in a nasty tone that Alexei isn't Human and should be removed from position. Alexei remarks calmly that Doctor Samantha is the General's baby sister who was revealed to be a spy due to there being secret information leaked out to the General along with higher ups to the government. Alexei adds that he had Samantha deposed. General Logan starts sputtering in gibberish which Kaison standing besides Alexei speaks that the General is sprouting Hammarabbi a language no Drainer can translate but can recognize it. Alexei is at the moment interrupted by Kenny who says that the Highlanders' helicopter has been sighted and their landing without permission. Alexei gives Logan a glare and speaks that Logan and guards and Kaison should escort him to the helicopter. Alexei turns and walks out followed by Kaison and a still sputtering General. He sees the helicopter land which Highlanders come out hauling a stretcher with a male form with short blonde hair and silver metallic clothing on him unconscious. Alexei turns to face General Logan who faint falling unconscious which Alexei bents down and yanks off the General's glove and sees the hand is clawed like the unconscious male on the stretcher bed. He remarks out loud that the General is not human but a non Human and wonders if Samantha knew about it. Alexei out in the hallway watching TV monitors that show a room with the unconscious General without his goggles on his face and gloves on his hands. He sees the unconscious male is lying on a bed next to the bed the General is on. TV monitors show Logan waking up shaking his head and groaning loudly then the monitor show him getting up from the bed and walking to the unconscious male which he places a bare hand on the male's forehead. The male, Alexei sees on monitors wakes up with a groaning sound and starts speaking gibberish which Logan speaks back in gibberish. Kaison standing next to Alexei speaks that their speaking in Hammarabbi as Logan and the male converse in foreign language. Alexei in his quarters remembers some things about his life on Earth. He recalls being in a metal box wearing no clothes which the bottom drops open and he is falling landing on the ground on his stomach and feels a powerful wind storm flying around scattering the dirt which he covers his eyes and then storm stops. He finds himself in a forest at night time and stands up as a torch light appear and he sees a Human male he would later learn called Vladimir Zesky who takes him to his home and he meets Vladimir's wife Beata along with a female who is pregnant he later learns is named Katherine who he would later take as his wife claiming her baby as his son Alexei Zesky Junior. Alexei recalls the Zesky family giving him clothes to wear along with teaching him things and teaching him how to speak their language which was Russian then English while living on a farm with them as Katherine gets further along with pregnancy. He remembers one day seeing out the window a convoy of vehicles called cars arrive at the house and see people come out of the cars towards the house which he watches as Vladimir comes out confronting the people. He goes to the front door to hear the people calling for Katherine and calling her names because she's not married and expecting a baby which he comes out of the house to stand next to Vladimir towering over the man with a glare on his face. He sees the crowd becomes silent with looks on their faces that he later would learn was shock which Vladimir gives him barely a glance before introducing Alexei as an immigrant from Russia who has taken Vladimir's last name and mentioning him as the father of Katherine's baby along with mentioning that Alexei hates the spotlight and wants to keep himself private. Peoples he watches turns around and leaves via cars which he and Vladimir go back inside the house. Alexei in the present day recalls Beata helping him dress up in a suit and with Katherine wearing a white dress still heavy pregnant is driven by Vladimir in a car to a building which they go inside and he meets a judge who marries Alexei and Katherine. Alexei again in the present day remembers later several days later Katherine going in labor while walking with her in the forest which he carries her to the house and she gives birth with Vladimir and Beata's help to a boy baby given the name Alexei. Alexei in the present day broke off his reverie to remember when Alexei junior was about fifteen years old two years after Vladimir and Beata's sickness death he was contacted by an asylum run by a powerful Russian family with the last name Najinov who forced him to become the Asylum's figurehead president to some male named Broderick O'Neil running things behind the scenes and then the actual leader of the asylum after O'Neil's death along with the asylum declared on taking his last name as the name of the Asylum thru threats of harming his son who they mysteriously found out his son's non Human side which was the ability to change into a wolf and back. Alexei shook his head recalling after he became head of the asylum they used the threat of harming Alexei Junior to do tests on himself and it was the idea of one of the Najinovs who he is unsure who for him to father a son thru one of the asylum's females. Door to his quarters open breaking Alexei from his memory trip and his son Alexei Junior comes in with a glare on his face. Alexei is confused to see him which Junior places a DVD disk on the coffee table and mentions stuff like Alexei fathering a son called Eric which the DVD shows his birth along with Alexei telling a man recognized as Kossman to take Eric as his son and a self tape of Alexei admitting Eric as his son while in a cryogenic tube room. Alexei is shocked to hear this as Junior angrily tells him to stay away from him and his family or he'll have Alexei arrested which Alexei protests words about raising Junior. Junior cuts him off by speaking that he knows that Alexei isn't his father biologically and never was his father which Junior abruptly leaves the room leaving Alexei who stares at the door with shock on his face. Alexei gets angry stands up to pace which he angrily speaks about Samantha who has been blabbing secrets to the government and mentions that she blabbed him fathering Eric to his family a betrayal he adds to himself that he'll never forgive. His phone rings and he answers it in a bad mood which he hears his communications officer speaking that General Logan is in the cryogenic tube room demanding his sister freed which Alexei cuts off by hanging up. He goes out of his quarters to the cryogenic tube room to meet General Logan there who is pleading to free Samantha which he refuses and with anger running through him knocks out the General with a fist in the face. He goes to Samantha's tube orders the tube to kill her then hauls the General into a tube and orders him frozen which he leaves cryogenic tube room to the stairs. He loses it falling to a sitting position wailing a bit loudly about Samantha's traitorous talking destroyed his relationship with his family something he valued the most which he wails he'll never get back. He calms down goes to his office to stand staring out the window lost in thought thinking of Katherine his wife Junior's mother who died of cancer two years before Lisha his granddaughter married Bruce. He mentally speaks to himself words about wishing Katherine being alive so he could talk to her for he misses her for there were things he didn't get to tell her which he regrets not saying. His phone breaks his train of thought which he answers to hear his communications officer saying that the Highlanders' helicopter have been sighted and are heading towards the ship appearing to land without permission. Alexei groans softly then hangs up and goes to the airplane hanger room to meet the Highlanders standing in front of their helicopter which he goes up to followed by Kaison and four guards. Highlanders speak that they have Alexei's son Junior and expect payment for his release. Alexei allows anger to take control speaks that he won't have anything to do with Junior he calls bastard and mentions that the Highlanders should give his regards to Junior. He turns to walk off which Highlanders speak that the price of Junior's freedom is Samantha who they refer as Medical Doctor Samantha Logan who they want to exchange for. Alexei gets a little annoyed which Kaison takes him aside and whispers in his ear that the Bony people told him their racial name as Wiser along with the fact that they suspect Samantha is one of those Humans who don't care about hurting people's feelings except her own and like to hurt people's feelings hence her blabbing secrets to the government to hurt people as in bringing them down. Alexei is really annoyed which Kaison adds that the Highlanders have ways of torturing people especially like torturing people who don't care about people's feelings as a way of punishing them. Alexei orders the Highlanders to wait while he gets Samantha. He goes to cryogenic tube room with Kaison following frees Samantha out of the tube which the Drainer carries an out of it Samantha to the Highlanders who take her away and as helicopter hovers in the air drops a cage with a grey wolf in it then flies away. Alexei goes to the cage frees the wolf and yanks off collar off which changes form to Junior who Alexei is sarcastic to as in ordering Junior off the ship who he expects to do right away. Alexei walks away which he hears Junior apologize behind him pauses from his walk to frown as Junior walks in his line of sight to speak that his words in Alexei's quarters were not appropriate and he wants to take them back. Alexei asks him about the turn around behavior which Junior speaks that the Highlanders asked him questions about his anger towards Alexei which he recalls his mother Katherine talking to him on her deathbed before she died about Alexei fathering a son which she is aware of because the son's mother Anya told her of this after granddaughter Lisha was born. Alexei is shocked to hear which Junior adds that Katherine told him she never mentioned knowing this to Alexei who never brought this up or talked about it. Alexei asks Junior if there are other members of the family that know of this. Junior responds that Katherine told him that the idea of Alexei fathering a child came from his wife's father Najinov himself who told Katherine of this which she told Junior. Alexei is alerted by an officer that there's a camera view screen in Samantha's office aimed at a tube in the life room with a figure inside that was viewed in the life room which they want Alexei to come see himself. He goes to the tube life room escorted by an officer to meet another officer who takes him to the tube and on the way they hear grunts of groaning sounds which they dart towards the direction to see an officer lying on the floor in front of a tube lying on its side with liquid pooling at an end. Alexei frowns as he sees an outline of a naked person which he realizes is invisible to them which he eyes. He sees the person charge towards one of his officers who goes down as if fisted in the head then sees his other officer take off running which he stands frowning.

He eyes the outline that walk towards him which he speaks "Hello?"

He feels his neck grabbed and feels himself gagged by a clawed hand which he feels the arm with both hands as the figure become solid revealing themselves. He sees with shock that the figure is a naked Eric with long black hair who has a glare on his face and he feels the hand on his neck tighten gagging him.

Alexei manages to choke out "Eric?" with confusion in his voice which Eric abruptly let goes of him to roll his golden eyes and watches him hit the floor fainting away.

Alexei catches his breath as officers arrive running towards him with worried expressions on their faces. He orders Eric sent to medical for tests which the officers remind him that they don't have a doctor for that and the nurses say their not qualified for this. Alexei frowns hearing this adds that they should give Eric clothes and put him a padded room and see how he'll do once he wakes up. He hears groaning noises sees the officer on the floor waking up which the officers help along with lifting an unconscious Eric up taking him away which he follows them out of the room. Alexei peers through the door to the padded room to spot Eric get up and watches the man go to the mirror which he opens door and walks into the room and see Eric look at him with shock on his face. He speaks Eric's name and hears from Eric speaking in Kurpanov's voice Kurpanov's name and not Eric comment. Alexei is told that the Highlanders' helicopter is seen and they want permission to land which he grants and goes to the helicopter with Kaison where they pull out a stretcher with a man laying on it that looks familiar to him. Highlanders tell him to depose the man they refer as Jinks but make sure Jinks still lives and they'll leave Alexei's family alone. Alexei inside hanger room asks about putting Jinks in a vertical tube which one of the soldiers there tell him that they don't have authorization to rig the vertical tube to keep Jinks alive and adds that only Doctor Samantha had the authorization. Alexei gets an instinct feeling that is bothering him about Jinks' familiarity which he orders Jinks to a patient room and requests to be told when Jinks wakes up so he can talk to him. His orders get obeyed and Jinks is put in a room with a medical cat recorder. Alexei still has that instinct feeling goes to his office to look at files wondering to himself why the man Jinks is familiar which a thunder and lightening storm starts booming and flashing outside his windows which he still can't find his answer figures its best to ask Jinks himself on that goes to the patient room and looks at the monitors to stare at Jinks asleep. He stiffens seeing Jinks jerk with back arched a grimace on the man's face and hands in fists which he continues to watch and then Jinks abruptly sits up awake and appearing to be gulping air which he frowns as an image of a tapestry looking old flashes in his mind which he sees a picture of a man on it wearing clothing that look medieval and the man has Jinks' face which he frowns wondering why he's getting that image till he stiffens of shock as another memory comes to his mind. He sees in the mind a memory of living with the Zeskys while a few days after being found by Vladimir exploring the house comes to the third floor to hear chanting noises which he goes up the stairs slowly to spot Vladimir and Beata with Katherine all in a kneeling pose backs to him all facing a tapestry hung on a wall. He sees the tapestry is of a man wearing medieval clothing with Jinks' face. He continues to watch with a frown while feeling confused as the three continued chanting their words in a language he later learned was Russian.

Alexei frowns as the words in Russian come to his mind which he stiffens hearing the words are the Zeskaya chant words of "Ay Kabaiya, we will live forever, live forever."

He frowns some more as another memory comes to his mind which he recalled after Katherine had her son who was a year old he was brought to the attic room and shown the tapestry and told that the man in the tapestry was called the Master an immortal all knowing king who rules with a gentle hand and that when he communicates its through people who's eyes that turn night sky colored and a different voice tone. Alexei frowns of the memories turns eyes the door but his feet refuses to move and he hears male voices sounding like the elementals ordering him not to go into the room till after the storm is over with. He feels confused hears a gasp sound and looks at his right to see Lisha standing next to him her eyes staring at the monitors with shock on her face. He signs a question of what got her shocked which she signs that her father showed her a tapestry looking old of a male with the man in the room's face at his house once and mentioned to her that it's his religious beliefs which she adds that her father in the past called his religion Christianity and refers himself as a Christian but has stopped referring himself as that after he showed her the tapestry. Lisha adds that her father won't tell her much about the man in the tapestry but only said that he is called the Master and has refused to tell her more about it without a price tag of her believing in his beliefs something her mother has insisted to her to balk after discussing her father's religious belief to her mother. Alexei frowns as he signs that Lisha's grandmother his wife had her father's beliefs and passed them on to him and adds that he was shown a tapestry like it and told it was of the Master an immortal all knowing King who rules with a gentle hand which he balks telling Lisha about the master communicating through people and the change people get when he does that after getting a bad feeling running through him. He eyes Lisha who frowns on her face then watches her sign that what her grandfather said was correct about the Master which she learned from her mother who informed her of that along with telling her that believers seemed to view the Master like Christianity's all seeing god and sometimes mix up Christianity with their religion while believing in the Master. Alexei gets the feeling again looks at Lisha hard who is staring at the monitors and then she looks at him with all black eyes and a smile on her lips before fading from view in a puff of white smoke which he stiffens blinking his eyes to find himself leaning against the wall sideways near the monitors with head on the wall while feeling a hand patting his cheek and he jerks his eyes open to see Janie looking at him with concern in her face while patting his cheek. He stares at her with confusion as she speaks that she saw him looking like he fell asleep standing up while leaning against the wall and has been trying to wake him up for a few minutes which he was slow acknowledging her. Alexei frowns as he speaks requesting that next time the Highlanders visit with their helicopter remind him to ask them for a medical doctor who is qualified to handle the Zeskaya ship's facilities. He sees a frown on Janie's face who speaks that the Highlanders visited the Zeskaya by car earlier and has brought a doctor a Human male along with them for the Zeskaya ship's facilities who seems to know how to use them when they tested him on getting some of the soldiers tested themselves. He frowns as Janie continues to speak that the Highlanders' stay was short only to say to one of the soldiers to tell Alexei that they should test Jinks and see if he is Human, a Hybrid or another Human like species. He nods his head of agreement and then peers at the monitors to see Jinks is still sitting up while appearing to be gulping air through his mouth and eyes the door which he hears the elementals' voices telling him to wait till the storm is over to go into Jinks' room. He speaks to Janie that once the storm is finished he'll have Jinks tested and adds that he doesn't trust the storm to screw the results by knocking out the power as the lights above blink on and off once. He sees Janie nod her head and then she speaks that Alexei should go to his quarters and get some sleep for he looks like he's exhausted and has probably not recovered from being in the cryogenic tube. Alexei doesn't protest nods his head and feels Janie's hand on his arm pulling him away from the monitors through a maze in the ship to his quarters which she leaves him. He goes inside his quarters to his bed and lies his form down on top of it shutting his eyes allowing himself to fall asleep and he passes out.

Alexei in his quarters feels hands on his back as he walks through his bedroom doorway to find himself in the cryogenic tube room with one tube open showing a figure appearing to be Eric his son inside which he darts towards it and takes a look at him to notice he has scaly skin and figures that he's not Eric only to feel stabbing pain in his back that feels a like a sword stabbing him falls to his knees and feels his hand grabbed put onto the monitor console and opens the tube Eric's twin is in it and then he's released to hit the floor going unconscious to float above his body watching as Eric's twin remained asleep as a Zeskaya appear shaking Eric's twin on the shoulder who remains sleeping and sees the Zeskaya hit the ground with a loud groan sound followed by form still which he sees his guard dubbed Shadow by others but actually a son of Kurpanov Kossman dubbed Eric who lifts him up and sees the scene change to show Shadow hauling him to a gate and then the scene goes black which he comes to feeling claws holding him up along with a headache and hears a female voice sounding Meritanian like yelling in his mind that he needs medical attention now and their killing him by not letting his companion haul him through the gate to someplace for medical help which he hears nothing else as he passes out unconscious to come to finding himself lying on a bed clothes off his form and he feels like he's wearing a hospital gown on his form with a blanket up to his chest and jerks open his eyes looking around with confusion to feel his hand grabbed by a gloved hand which he jerks looking off his left to see that the hand's owner is Shadow himself which he feels confused seeing Shadow there and speaks asking what happened to him due to recalling someone transported him off Shadan to someplace else then stabbed him from behind and he remembers feeling someone lifting him up and dragging him before clawed hands grabbed a hold of him and someone was screaming about him needing medical help before he passed out unconscious to wake up here. He stares at Shadow who releases his hand to sign hand language that after seeing Alexei disappear through a doorway he found himself in a forest facing a gate and told by a male Meritanian he figured was Ramses to go through and got an image of a place in his mind which he went through to see himself in some room where Alexei was lying on the floor and there was a figure identified as a Zeskaya shaking some guy with some weird facial look on the shoulder while lying in some bed which he hid himself going to the Zeskaya punching the idiot out unconscious then lifted up Alexei and found himself with Alexei in some gate room which he tried to haul through the gate but bony figures with veins popping appeared in the room which Alexei thinks their Banshees as Shadow continues signing got a hold of Alexei and refused to let him haul him through the gate. He wound up releasing Alexei as several of those figures got a hold of him and pushed him through the gate which he found himself alone in Alexei's quarters in the living room feeling frustrated with the species' interference till there was banging on the quarters door went to answer. He frowns as Shadow continues signing that guards were at the door saying that Alexei's tracker signal said he's in his quarters in distress which he figured was the bedroom darted into it followed by the guards to find Alexei lying in bed unconscious which he was transported right to medical for through tests which a stab wound on his back was found along with operated to see if there were any internal damage and there wasn't any but his implants were replaced due to that the tests indicated that they were failing and outlived their usefulness hence he getting new ones. Alexei senses Shadow isn't fully telling him anything manages to say that but Shadow refuses to tell him. He manages to find the new medical doctor has given him another body guard he sees is some weird hybrid dubbed Breaker he not sure where he came from. Alexei recalls fully himself some memories in his mind involving a High Council servant named Mindbender being the cause of his implant uses by trying to bring him down with mental abilities to his disgust. He mentally yells for Ramses to get the Meritanian blaring in his mind that he wants Mindbender transported to his quarters for a talk right away. Alexei gets up and gets dressed despite objections by medical doctor he ignores and goes to his quarters. Alexei confronts Mindbender in his quarters with three of his guards there only to get transported to the High Council's throne room and the group tells him off on interfering with their ordered assassinations and tells Mindbender sensed in the room to put him asleep. He shuts his eyes and feels himself falling into some healing sleep and resists to that only to feel a compulsion to wake up which he wakes and tells off the High Council on why they should spare his life. He gets transported back to his quarters to find his twin guards twin sons of Shadow there that get him on the bed and he falls asleep but senses it's not the healing sleep to his relief. He passes out to sense a light show and opens his eyes to discover Mindbender displaying some scary look in the room and eyes the assassin who narrows eyes staring at him and before he could say anything feels compelled to sleep which he shuts his eyes and discovers himself falling into the healing sleep status and passes out unconscious-

Dictator was interrupted "Hence this Leader acting annoyed towards Edenia's orders to lay off targeting the High Council." He heard from Torrin.

Dictator glared at Torrin in response who spoke noticing his glare "Sorry Edenia has been using me as a translator between manoids and her transported from that planet this world is orbited to her throne room for a talk despite appearing to be a gonoid when speaking her orders to manoids via me translation."

Dictator heard thunder booming overhead eyed the sky seeing it clouded up fast.

He heard from Torrin "Ignore that and just tell me more of the story. Like what happened to Alexei's people reacting to him sleeping?"

Dictator spoke in response the story.

Breaker senses Alexei in distress darts into Alexei's room to see Mindbender there which he verbally orders him to sleep and sees the assassin disappear in a flash of light while shaking head. He triggers the medical alarm in Alexei's quarters and waits as medical personal arrive taking Alexei with them to medical bay due to that their scanners with them aren't saying what's going on with the male and that they think he's in some healing sleep status judging by him not waking despite theirs and Breaker's attempts to wake him up. Breaker feels depressed as they leave with Alexei and sits on the bed to see a light show showing a sleeping Mindbender and then another light show showing Barry which makes him stand up feeling nervous seeing him. Barry gives him a golden eyed glare and orders him to wake Mindbender up period which he obeys due to that Barry is his father and using parental authority over him. He sees Mindbender shake his head waking up but disappears in a flash of light as Barry he eyes speaks about destroying one High Council group results in another forming in place and mentions that the saying includes leaders as one taken down another will take his place and adds that Breaker can't be the leader to take Alexei's place due to not having the respect from the people working here but knows of someone who'll automatically gain the people's respect with Breaker he names backing the person up in the leadership status. Breaker doesn't say a word as Barry disappears in a flash of light. He goes to medical bay to find the doctor removing implants from Alexei and tells him in some nervous tone that Alexei is actually in some healing sleep status and doesn't know how long his body will heal him up. He realizes from the doctor's nervous tone and people eyeing him with nervous expressions that their afraid he's taken the leadership and don't want him to lead him. Breaker gets an idea on who'll lead in Alexei's place leaves the room going to the cryogenic tube room to a tube opening it due to tricking Alexei into thinking he uses his hand print to open it when he actually had Alexei program his hand print onto it. He opens tube and eyes the male inside and figures that he'll use the voice to make him take Alexei's place period.

Eric as he's called was transported from Terrania by Meritanians, Merra and Tank on the way to being transported out by Walls and Kiddy stuck on Terra, to Shadan and put down asleep, lying asleep in a tube wakes up with a gasp and rubs his head only to feel the bed move followed by a hand shaking his shoulder which he jerks to stare at a male he sees with a frown is appearing to be some kind of hybrid to him who speaks in some odd language in compelling voice tone and groans loudly as memories spill into his mind that he recalls involved his father Alexei along with hearing the male add that his name is Breaker and hears the language to find himself understanding a word recalling it's the Human's language of Summeran he from his memories had trouble being fluent in but with the new memories within him finds himself having no trouble getting it. Eric gets up helped by the male Breaker who speaks foreign language in a compelling voice tone and finds the scene changed to find himself in some medical bay from the looks of it and hears Breaker order loudly in Summeran to get the One checked out which he hears the emphasize in the word One to feel Breaker's hand off of him while noticing the male has jabbed a finger aimed at him. He recalls fully with memories in his mind that Alexei was leader of a group dubbing by them the One which he speaks in Summeran finding himself sounding like Alexei that he insists on that medical examination. He gets led to a bed and lays his form onto it staring at the ceiling and finds the doctor there declares him fine enough to function without any medical devices and that he's healed up from a drug addiction to a breathing device. He eyes the doctor who speaks relaying Alexei's medical history along with implant use and that he was found in some healing sleep status that he can't wake him up regardless of what was done to him and had him transferred to the cryogenic tube room for his body to be safely contained while it heals himself. Eric figures out why he was yanked from that room by Breaker to take Alexei's place as leader and recalls to himself that Alexei always sounded similar to him by speaking regardless of the language and recalls Alexei's twin brother Jon dubbed Leader when a child had whined overheard about Alexei and his father sounding the same to a servant he trusted to babysit him. He hears a groan from Breaker who hits the floor and finds himself falling backwards hitting metal along with hands grabbing his arms and a hand gloved clamped over his mouth as he's forced to stand. He finds himself in the High Council's presence glares at the group as their male speaker speaks in Basic he finding himself getting the language that they have observed him stabbing Alexei Zesky and him disappearing off Shadan before they could question him about the behavior. He keeps his mouth shut as the female speaker orders Ramses to scan this Mesan's Curse's mind and tell them the exact reason for the stabbing which he feels his mind scanned and figures its by a Meritanian to hear from Ramses blaring in a male voice within his mind that the High Council should check records regarding Rakcara that was once ruled by a Mesan's Curse which was dictatorial in ruling till his own twin sons Alexei himself and another kicked him out of position and dumped him onto another planetary world seemed primitive he doesn't know the name and he fell into some healing sleep status after dumped there and woke up to transport himself to Shadan thinking of punishing his sons for their behavior by stabbing them with the sword weapon hidden in his arm which he did to Alexei but didn't do to the other son due to that his son somehow anticipated his arrival and attack had someone switch places from where he normally was in the Mesan's Curse meeting room which the stabbing was done but soon after that he managed to calm down from his angry mood to verbally tell off his son about the dumping onto some primitive world who apologized for it which he has accepted the apologizing. He doesn't comment finding that Ramses is hiding some information he has in his mind and keeps his mind blank as the scans continue as the male speaker is heard saying telling Ramses to manipulate this Mesan's Curse to a gate and make sure he goes through it to Rakcara due to that's where he belongs only to hear from Ramses a can't do that order comment and adds that the Mesan's Curse was actually exiled off Rakcara after confronting his son while one of the Mesan's Curse injured him on purpose and used his medical distress status to get him to a travel gate and told him that they would cut his head off if he returned to Rakcara into their presence. He stiffens hearing that as Ramses continues to talk that he gleaned this from the minds of Mesan's Curse from Rakcara that travel to Shadan sometimes accidentally or on purpose to check on Alexei and from their minds have made up their mind that they don't want anything to do with the Mesan's Curse dubbed Jason who the High Council have in their presence and that they prefer Jason to remain exiled off Rakcara period and are willing to execute him if he returns to Rakcara whether its by his own choice or manipulated. He frowns inwardly as Ramses stops talking followed by the male speaker speaking a question of what they should do to Jason he not protesting to the name anyway. He hears from Ramses that Alexei fell into some healing sleep status by Mindbender manipulating him and that the people who saw Alexei as a leader woke up Jason from some frozen sleep status due to thinking he would take Alexei's place as their leader due to that none of the people at the Zesky Asylum and Hospital from mind scans are willing to take the leadership position and they seemed to have all agreed on Jason to lead them. He hears Ramses add that the High Council should tread carefully with their treatment towards Jason due to that the First Ones he figures is another name for Humans he knows from past history that whenever a First One in a leadership position was taken out of the title by medical reasons of another person causing injury that people have displayed some very protective attitude towards the First One's replacement including reacting very violently if the replacement suffered any medical ailments that were by another person's hand and he's not kidding about that for they should check their records and they'll find too many cases of this on file regarding the First Ones and their attitudes towards First Ones in leadership positions. Eric figures to himself as Ramses become silent and sees the speakers bow their heads followed by the High Council behind seated waggling their heads and waving their hands that he'll refer himself as Jason to people instead of the name of Eric due to thinking he has a second chance of leadership duties and figures that the Jason name wouldn't make people feel negatively like the Sun Lord titled name. He hears nothing from Ramses in comment to his thinking due to sensing his mind still scanned by the Meritanian as the High Council he eyes seems lengthy with their talk he figures is what their doing till their speakers raise their heads and the male speaks in some firm voice speaking the name of Jason and listen carefully comment along with saying that Alexei caused them too much trouble in his leadership position interfering with their plans and they had an assassin put him down asleep into some healing sleep status to get him out of the way and adds that they'll let Jason he names to replace Alexei but adds that their watching him for any interference with their plans and won't hesitate to send an assassin to put him down on a permanent basis if he is found to be interfering with their plans. He doesn't comment keeps his mind blank to hear from Ramses that he needs to transport Jason back to his people due to that a Builder woke up from being put to sleep and is in a bad mood from scanning people around that Builder including the Builder himself who correctly figured that the High Council got a hold of Jason along with figuring out that the Meritanians have some transportation ability and don't want the Builder to get the idea that their not immune to Builder voice orders. He hears from the male speaker a comment of remember their warning followed by transport Jason out command. He finds himself in medical bay after freed from hand holds to hear from the doctor loudly sounding annoyed using the name of Breaker that the One has arrived to medical bay by Meritanians. He finds the doctor talking to some handheld device and sees a light show that shows Breaker flaring golden eyes that makes him think the hybrid is a Builder and furious which Breaker he hears speaks loudly in gibberish in some compelling voice tone to find two light shows showing two males with appearances hidden by cloth wear and head masks similar to the Mesan's Curse's head mask but senses that their not part of the species but something else. He hears Breaker order loudly to the twin males calling them by names of Blackie and Whitney to guard the One actual name Jason he hears Breaker use that name to his confusion to wonder how the Builder got it and continues to hear from the male that he expects a perfect guardianship job and won't except a medical injury hitting the One by someone else's hand in some negative way as acceptable period. He eyes the two males to spot on their chests are squares in color one of night sky and one of clouds which he recalls from his memories that the night sky is Blackie and the cloud is Whitney which he eyes them to see them fade from view turning into whirling tornadoes he figures is them being in some hidden status-

Dictator was interrupted by Torrin giving out a loud Yeer comment. He gave Torrin a glare to see the Drainer was jabbing a finger in Brianna's direction he noticed Nikolas was still staring at Brianna but appeared to have some sexual look in his face and seen scratching his private. Dictator gave up a sound of disgust and thrust out his sword getting up only to get blocked by Torrin putting a hand on his shoulder.

He gave Torrin a glare and got from the Drainer in response "Nicky doesn't know that I'm not supposed to drink from manoids around here. Excuse me while I handle punching his lights out as you Humans say it."

Dictator put his sword away and stood in front of the hut watching as Torrin walked into the bushes he figured was doing a sneak attack onto Nikolas. He didn't have long to wait as Torrin seen snuck up behind Nikolas and gave up a loud Boo comment while putting hands onto Nikolas's shoulders scaring the Hayu Leader. Dictator frowned as offsprings gathered around Brianna got up darting away some heard snickering loudly as they went to huts. He found Nikolas getting up and giving Torrin a glare of anger only to find the Drainer punching Nikolas's face with a fist followed by the Hayu Leader hitting the ground unconscious. He gave up a loud Hmph as he found his Hmph echoed by Brianna walking up to him.

Dictator kept his mouth shut as Brianna snarled "Typical Nikolas was ogling me with that thing between his legs as I told the story. He ignored my repeated attempts to get him to think of something else. What an idiot!"

Dictator didn't reply as Brianna stomped into the hut passed him he stayed outside eyeing Nikolas lying spread eagle onto a log unconscious. He found Torrin walking up to him and parking himself on the ground in front of the hut and appeared to be asleep ignoring him staring.

Dictator spoke loudly "Edenia, do something about Nikolas and his rudeness."

He heard thunder booming including lightening flashing above making him nervous in response as he heard "Go to sleep Dictator!"

Dictator glared at Torrin the voice's owner who ignored his staring as he continued to hear thunder rumbling and lightening flashing to his disgust. He gave up a loud Hmph sound and without a word went into the hut finding Brianna pacing inside.

She was heard grumbling "Typical male that I get some idiot staring at me with mating on his mind by his behavior. Idiot doesn't get it the story I was telling involving something else!"

Dictator without a word plopped himself down onto the blanket and ignored Brianna pacing back and forth. He heard rain falling overhead hitting the hut including spilling inside the eater's hole which he got up and thrust the eater's hole's cover in place. He put the eater out and sat with night vision while staring at Brianna who kept on pacing.

"Go to sleep Brianna!" He heard howled outside the hut via Torrin's voice as the storm kept on rumbling.

Dictator eyed Brianna in response that gave up a loud Hmph and laid her form down onto the floor and got ordered "Spoon fashion me will ya?"

He obeyed finding Brianna adjusting the blanket to cover herself and sensed that she was lying awake by her fidgeting. Dictator recalled something involving rubbing people's backs to calm them down from bad moods did it to Brianna who sighed loudly to his hands.

"Anyway if Nikolas wanted to mate with me, he should have said something other than staring at me with that weird look of his." He got from Brianna who added "It was rather rude of him to stare at me like that when he should have used words."

Dictator didn't say a word in response instead wrapped arms around Brianna wrapped in her blanket and heard her add "You tell me what you want instead of staring like an idiot. Something that Nikolas needs to learn around here instead of staring at people with odd looks when he wants something."

Dictator sighed as he found the storm quit to his relief heard Brianna give off a yawn followed by sensing her conk out which he conked himself out asleep.

Epilogue

Dictator woke up as if drawn feeling himself compelled to wakefulness. He got up finding Brianna still asleep and ignoring him. He walked out of the hut finding the sun was slowly disappearing down the horizon via the looks of it. He found Nikolas leaning against a tree and staring at the sky with a pleading look on his face to his disgust.

Dictator spoke loudly "Still thinking with that thing of yours Nikolas?"

He gave Nikolas a glare who stared at him with a double take look followed by snarling "Leave me alone to commune with nature."

Dictator thrust out his sword and spoke in response "Commune with nature when you're desperate for something by that expression on your face-"

He was interrupted "Leave me alone!" spoken by Nikolas.

Dictator spoke in response "Whatever is paining you, I hope you'll get over it."

He found himself shocked with what he blurted as he gave Nikolas a glare in response and thrust aside his sword before walking away.

"Dictator, wait a minute, as you Humans say it. I got a confession to say to you and want you to hear me out." he heard from Nikolas.

Dictator didn't comment a response instead went to the log next to Nikolas and sat down with arms folded and spoke "So tell me what's bothering you."

He found Nikolas speaking in response "A story I keep on getting in my head that is disturbing me too much. It involves I posing as someone else named Nightwalker some Drainer sucker in a Human form."

Dictator kept his mouth shut into a thin line and remained seated listening to Nikolas speaking his tale involving a Human Drainer named Nightwalker a Bloody vampire as the species referred themselves living on a planetary world named Egyptia.

He found Nikolas added during the story "Nightwalker met this Builder named Brandis, the Record Keeper who was actually a slayer of the Bloody vampires themselves instead of a full Builder and tried to suck him to death. Some species dubbing themselves Tennans landed onto the planet with their Queen ship and wound up taking Brandis off the planet as Nightwalker and his people took control of Egyptia in some deity lord terms."

Dictator sighed softly as he recognized the far away look on Nikolas's face was twin to Brianna's facial expression when she was having a memory before speaking it.

He groaned softly and forced himself to listen to Nikolas telling his tale including a tale of Brandis, the Record Keeper writing a story or a diary journal in Nightwalker's written language dubbing the story "Builder's Journal."

Dictator found himself joined by the others among the camp including Brianna listening to Nikolas telling the story ignoring his growing audience. He sighed and found Brianna gripping his hand during Nikolas's story telling and gripped her hand in response and forced himself to keep on listening.

The End?
