 
Eric Reborn

Eric Book/Edenia Series

By Beth Hoyer

Published at Smashwords 2016

Prologue

Eric told the story to the Recorder of memories, he recalled, while reborn from his status as disappeared, also known as dead, to be born again living again in Terrania.

The Story:

The soul meeting the Guardian of Life and Death wound up eyeing the metal gated arch like a Traveler's Gate flickered like a TV. The Soul wound up seeing the Traveler's Gate flash an image of male wearing furry like skin clothing from head to foot.

The soul heard "You had to show Eric didn't you?!"

The soul heard nothing in response to female's question instead kept on watching. The soul found them as the male dubbed Eric who walked on the desert sands his feet wearing gonoid skin boots with robes covering him from head to foot. He paused from his walk to exhale a breath staring at the desert sands while feeling the wind blowing softly. He saw a rocky wall ahead of him compelling him to walk near it. Eric continued walking towards the rock as if compelled. He frowned as he felt a burning sensation on the bottoms of his feet looked down to stare at the ground. I saw nothing but didn't realize that my feet were burning from a sleeping frozen status of waking up. He felt a hotness feeling. It made him yank off his robes baring his form showing him wearing pants with no top revealing his muscular physique. Groaning he tossed aside the robes as the feeling began to dominate him as he walked. He felt his feet burning and looked down with dizzy eyes to see smoke of fire on the ground where his feet were which he followed with his eyes. He stiffened as he saw the fire surrounded him and screamed out a nonsense sound despite urged to run. Eric or I ran towards the rocky wall running while feeling the burning going to my legs indicating my body heating up from deadness status of frozen. He forced himself to keep running till he reached the rocky wall and paused when he spotted a doorway opening in it. He ran in the doorway opening running into a corridor with stone walls. Eric ran not caring where he went till his lungs started bursting and he collapsed onto his knees on the dirt floor. He shut his eyes panting for breath me breathing for the first time after being frozen dead status. Eric discovered the burning and hotness sensations gone from he opened his eyes as he continued to pant. He looked up with night vision to see a large sarcophagus coffin in a form statue of Lance Richard the God King Lord of the Underworld in front of him next to the wall of a large room that was high overhead. He exhaled a breath as my body did the same I didn't realize it. I wound up trapped into my mind kept contained by the God king Lance Richard in his Underworld kingdom. Eric wound up getting up from the dirt floor to stare at the sarcophagus which he saw had a sword spear on top of it. I recognized as a weapon called a Mikan by a term by the species Mesan's Curse. I didn't realize it I was getting memories of my clones into my mind hence the Mikan's name. He sighed and walked towards the sarcophagus leaning over with clawed hands on the Mikan which he with great strength yanked off.

He stood holding the Mikan in his hands as he spoke while I thinking words "This place is my home. I won't leave it and suffer your fate, Father. I refused to let what happened to you happen to me."

He exhaled a breath then felt tiredness arriving went to a wall and sat in a leaning position closing his eyes. He felt himself sliding into a lying position laid onto the ground falling asleep.

Eric woke up with gasp breathing via my own body's oxygen despite my heart not beating yet. He got up and looked around the room which he saw a doorway opposite from the sarcophagus. Eric entered to see a corridor with open doorways on both sides which he counted each having five of them. He went into doorways to discover that that they were empty small rooms. He found rats scattering in all directions in one room which he feeling hungry captured a rat gagging it to death. He brought the rat to his mouth biting into it eating as he entered another room. Eric saw had water dripping from the ceiling landing into a small stone pool of water on the floor. He finished with the rat threw the carcass away and went to the pool kneeling. Eric brought his hand into the pool scooping up water bringing it to his lips repeatedly ignoring my water poisoning status not hitting during my mind. My body wound up accepting the milk substance injected into my arm hence this water drinking via my mind.

He felt himself better spoke out loud "I'll stay here with the rats as my food and this water pool as my drink."

He got up and walked back to the sarcophagus room where he went to the corner of the room and laid his form on the dirt ground falling asleep.

Eric jerked himself awake when he heard a sound. He opened his eyes as his eyes sight blinked from night vision to day vision while hearing the sound become louder. He sat up to stare at the doorway was a flickering light that was coming nearer and nearer while hearing sounds he recognized as people jabbering. He got up holding the Mikan in front of him to stare at the open doorway. The light revealed a flaming torch light held by a figure wearing scaly clothes of molded to the body in hand followed by four other figures wearing identical clothing all with barrel shaped masks covering their heads. I later recognized the figures as the Zeskaya species as they called themselves but didn't realize that they were mind scanning me at the time. He stood watching as the figures spoke words he didn't get it the language overlapping jabbering all at once. They were sounding of excitement and panic to me despite speaking gibberish. I didn't understand the language said but it sounded like Americania's hissing language of Rakcar or Americanian. He edged himself closer towards the figures that darted towards the sarcophagus one leaving the torch lying on the floor as they picked at the coffin with swords in their hands. Eric roared some loud nonsense sound got the figures to stop their picking as he charged at them swinging his Mikan. He heard exclamations of shock from the figures as he used the flat end of the Mikan's sword part hitting each of them on their heads knocking them out. He stood staring at the figures that lay on the floor unconscious with the torch's light flickering. Exhaling a breath he picked up a figure by the neck dragging the person out of the room into the corridor passing by doorways towards the entrance where he could see was nighttime. He with great strength tossed the figure into the air that landed away from him onto the sand that appeared to be watery letting in the figure that splashed. I didn't realize it at the time but the species Zeskaya were mind scanning me for any signs of life in my mind. He went inside and repeated the process with the other figures including tossing out the torch light then went to the rats' room where he could see rats running around in all directions. With quick hand movements he grabbed a rat by the tail and tossed it in the air catching it with his hand around its neck which he squeezed choking it. He smiled a smile of satisfaction as the rat died giving up to death going limp in his hand. He walked out of the room biting into the rat's body going out the corridor towards the entrance to outside and stood chewing as he listened. Eric heard voices yelling exclamations words not understood with overlapping as he listened. He heard horses whinnying sounds as he stood which became fainter and fainter. He once finished with the rat tossed the carcass away went to the pool room going inside to kneel at the pool bringing his hand in it scooping up water which he drank repeatedly.

He spoke once he finished drinking "I'll stay here and keep people out for it's my home my place and my sanctuary. No one will enter this place not if I have to kill them just to get rid of the people entering here."

He sighed and got up leaving the room to the corridor which he walked entering the large room to stand staring at the sarcophagus. Eric walked to putting a hand on top of it the sarcophagus.

He spoke again "I'll guard you to keep others from interfering with your rest. You have my word on this, for I'm not leaving ever. Nothing will bring me out of this sanctuary except death."

He gave the sarcophagus a rub and removed his hand to go to a corner lying on the ground closing his eyes as he let sleep over come him.

Eric dreamed of walking in the desert wearing robes that covered his head showing his eyes peering out.

He was following a figure wearing identical robes covering the head.

Eric automatically knew was his Father via voice speaking "This is your father."

The voice sounded of a Meritanian via voice's tone. His Father stopped and removed the robe from his head showing a form that was twin to Nightwalker the vampire god on identification. Eric stood next to him removing his robe from his head to stare at his Father. His Father looked at him before a look of terror arrived on his face which he screamed before looking down. Eric looked down to see fire licking at his Father's robes surrounding him. He darted towards his Father who hit him with a fist in the face throwing him backwards hitting the ground as ropes arrived wrapping around his arms holding him there. He lay on the ground staring at his Father with horror on his face as the fire abruptly rose surrounding the male.

He screamed out "Father!"

The fire he saw engulfed his father who gave out a crying wail and then the flames went shooting into the sky leaving a black round soot mark on the ground in place of the male. The burning death was representing the poison found in my system that was healed out of my body by Nightwalker representing the poison healed out of me. I didn't know this at the time but I would later as I woke up from my nightmare which I woke up screaming of terror shaking my form. It took Eric moments to understand where he was trapped in the room or tomb with Lance Richard containing him there. Groaning he rubbed a hand on his head and stood up as his eyes sight flashed from night vision to day vision. He looked at the corridor doorway to see fire light becoming brighter and brighter. Eric gripped the Mikan in his hands while softly growling. He stared at the light source revealing a figure with a male form holding a torch. Eric saw had shoulder length sun colored hair while wearing clothes that were medical scrubs, I didn't realize it at the time as the male came into the room.

He snarled softly as the figure turned to his direction speaking words he understood "Who is there? Show yourself now."

Eric slowly walked forward his eyes on the male's eyes that widened seeing him as if shocked.

He stared at the stranger who spoke again "Why are you living here surrounded by darkness instead of being in the light?"

Stranger meant to say "Why are you in your mind when you should be out of your mind controlling your body instead?"

A Meritanian was sensed controlling the stranger's wording via mind scanning at the time. Not sure which Meritanian was other than Walls and Kiddy was suspected. Eric in response swung the wide end of the Mikan at the stranger hitting him on the knees knocking him to kneel. He angrily grabbed the stranger's long hair yanking him in a standing position thrusting the sword part of the Mikan at the stranger's neck.

He spoke "I won't tolerate visitors here who will be removed by my force even killed if they resist."

He yanked the stranger into the hallway towards the entrance where he could see sunlight shining outside. He brought the stranger to the entrance and thrust his back to the wall.

Eric spoke "Tell the others to stay out. This is my sanctuary, no one enters."

He turned his back and sensed the torch light behind him shining. Eric continued walking through the corridor entering the sarcophagus room. He kneeled as his dream of his father burned flashed in his mind's eye. Groaning he rubbed a hand on his forehead and once again his eyes sight flickered. Growling he got up and turned towards the room's entrance to see a male with short dark colored hair wearing identical twin clothes as the stranger enter the room with a torch in hand.

He charged at the stranger who spoke "Eric, I'm called Trevor."

Eric paused mid charge hearing his name spoken by the stranger Trevor. The image of his father catching on fire came to his mind scaring him to react violently. He continued his charge swinging the Mikan at Trevor who put the torch in front of his face. As he swung, fire from the torch came blowing at him towards his eyes. Eric dropped the Mikan bending down placing hands over his eyes while hearing running footsteps getting fainter and fainter. He removed his hands to blink his eyes finding from yellow eyesight of night vision was entirely purple with light sources for pinks. I at the time didn't realize that the planet's All Seeing One God gave me the eyesight via burning Trevor did to me. Eric felt his eyes were fine not acknowledging the change without realizing it and straightened up his form. He exhaled a breath and looked down on the ground for his Mikan he saw wasn't there.

Frowning he looked around eyes staring at the ground then he growled out loud "That stranger, Trevor, stole my weapon."

He roared an angry sound then jogged out of the room to the corridor to the entrance. Eric walked out into the sunlight to see Trevor holding his Mikan in his hands standing next to the stranger he kicked out. The stranger was seen holding a torch and behind them were a crowd of people who abruptly went silent seeing him. He darted up to Trevor and yanked the Mikan out of his grip then turned his back to the crowd pausing when he heard gasping sounds from behind him. I had markings onto my back that indicated I was original and not a clone as believed by the Zeskaya species manipulating things while aboard Anya's water ship underwater with Zeskaya's version of Kossman. Clones, I later learned, had markings of a belly button on their backs at the spine area marking them something I didn't have at the time hence I appeared to be an original of a cloned status.

My back had tattoo markings onto it saying in Japanese's language as identified really Highlander's original written language "This is Eric, son of Alexei, the One."

Shaking his head he walked back into the tomb entering the hallway again which he again reached the sarcophagus room. His eyes sight blinked again which he spun around to see Trevor walking speedily into the room. A Surrai named Trevor with mind ability to mind scan was scanning me, at the time, hence he in my tomb in my mind. Eric edged himself towards the wall eyes on Trevor sensed of doing violence again. He saw Trevor go up to the coffin and kneel form becoming still as if waiting for something.

Shaking his head of disgust he turned away towards the doorway when he heard a voice speaking "Eric."

The voice was identified to be Leader the Zeskaya acting as my Fatherly representative on Terrania as the world was now referred by natives. He turned around to stare at Trevor and widen his eyes when he saw a male standing at Trevor's side wearing a skirt with chest, bare of clothing with shiny jewelry on it and a crown on his head, staring at him with all dark colored eyes. Eric shook his head closing his eyes. He opened them to find the male representative of his father actual Leader himself gone from standing besides Trevor.

He thought to himself "It was just part of my imagination."

He turned and froze for inches away staring at him was his father who spoke "You my son is Sun Lord, leader of the people who are counting on you to lead which is what you should be doing. I did not raise you to have yourself isolated surrounded in the darkness living alone."

Eric gasped at his father with shock on his face as his father continued speaking "You should face your fear the real reason why your isolated yourself in this place."

He closed his mouth as his father paused then continued speaking "Why did you go out in the sun to get your weapon if you are afraid of the light? Speak your fears don't keep them to yourself, my son."

He stared at his father who faded from his eyes sight as he turned to face Trevor who he heard was chanting words he heard repeatedly said "Go into the light, don't be afraid."

Trevor on admittance of the Surrai's Trevor mind scanning at the time was "Come out of your tomb in your mind."

A Meritanian was sensed mind scanning at the time manipulating things to play jokes again to the disgust of me. Eric went to Trevor kneeling in front of the man who stopped chanting to stare at him.

Eric spoke via his own wording and not manipulation of a Meritanian "I have a either a memory, or a dream in my mind. I see my father wearing robes covered up, walking in the desert with me besides him wearing robes. I was following him who stopped from walking to remove the hood from his head. I did the same with both of us looking at each other. My father looked at me with a look of fear on his face. He screamed of terror and looked down. I looked to see eater licking at his robes surrounding him. I darted towards him to help which he punched me hard throwing me backwards hitting the ground. I could only lie on the ground tied via ropes staring with terror as the eater engulfed my father.

I screamed out 'Father!'

As the eater covered him I heard him give out a crying wail sound then the eater shot up towards the sky leaving a black round soot mark on the ground in his place. I kept walking in the desert till I got a burning sensation on the bottoms of my feet that I felt a hotness feeling that made me yank off my robes. The feeling took over as my feet continued to feel like burning and looked down with bad eyesight to see eater surrounding me which I screamed and ran to here. The burning came up to my legs as I entered this place entering this room falling to a kneeling position and felt the eater had left me."

He paused as Trevor nodded his head and he continued "I became afraid that the eater would consume me like it did with my father if I was out there so I stayed living here as my sanctuary from it."

He stared at Trevor who wordlessly handed him a large cloth canteen while speaking "Here, Eric, drink."

Eric took the canteen and brought the open cap part to his lips which he drank recognizing it as milk and he greedily drank till there wasn't a drop left for him. He handed Trevor the canteen who slung it over his arm as he grimaced as a headache arrived to his head. I saw via his headache was of myself younger sitting next to an eater with gonoid skins feet aimed at it. It was while staring at a man who had robes covering him across from the eater. The man pulled off his robes off his head showing a male's face with a headband of metal on his head.

My mind told me "This is your father's second in command guard named, Breaker."

Breaker was sensed stared at me with a frown as I saw a scene via travel gate's image of Eric or myself whichever. Eric laid down staring at the sky while feeling his feet warm. He felt a burning sensation in his feet and looked up as Breaker darted around the eater with panic in his eyes. He felt the burning sensation reach his legs as Breaker grabbed him pulling him away from the eater before tossing a bolt of cloth covering his legs and feet swatting it at him. He felt the burning sensation leave him followed by hotness feeling. He groaned loudly pulling at his long sleeve shirt yanking it off his form.

He felt Breaker's hand on his forehead and heard him speak "By the Gods, burning up."

I lay on the bed literally while feeling myself really hot groaning loudly. I felt a cool cloth cover my forehead as I suffered from the poison out of my system. I shut my eyes as I was forced into a sitting position and felt something brought to my lips. I drank recognizing it as milk. I felt the coolness of milk and greedily drank as sleepiness arrived I stopped drinking becoming still. I felt an arm around my form and felt my head lay on a lap with a cloth still on my forehead. I slept passing out unconscious.

The scene changed via TV's travel gate to show Eric or myself while kneeling jerked his eyes to stare at Trevor who spoke "You as younger were burned on the feet and legs from an eater catching on your clothes which gave you the heat sickness. You suffered said to see an image of your father being burned by the eater repeatedly over and over during your sicknesses."

Trevor paused then continued speaking "After your father's disappearance, you were seen going into the desert unstopped wearing what you described, walking the perimeter of the city walls outside while crying out 'Father' repeatedly."

I frowned at Trevor's words who kept speaking "The hotness feeling you had that led you to here was the heat of the desert and the coolness of the tomb helped you feel better."

I found that I felt better along with hearing a voice "Go with Trevor leaving the place, my son."

I via identification recognized the voice belonging to Lance Richard's the God king God of the Underworld spoken it. Eric got up as Trevor got up and he ran to a corner of the room with hand over his mouth while hearing the male gasp loudly. Eric threw up the contents of his stomach several times along with choking like feeling which he felt something in his mouth. He coughed out to see is a small crystal jewel with a cloth necklace which I later recognized as Lance Richard's. It symbolized my heart beating again after being frozen solid and dead for awhile.

Eric put on necklace and went back to Trevor who spoke "Moves like a God for only a God can lead us."

Eric from the looks of him wound up not acknowledging the words as if Trevor spoke foreign language as the male handed him the Mikan. He followed Trevor out of the tomb to outside facing the crowd of people who get on their knees as if worshipping him as their God and leader. Eric became Pharaoh as the leader's title and given clothes and is paraded through the city in a chair held by male slaves representing Freeloaders with his guards flanking him. The Freeloaders are a species dubbed Keo that are blondes with all black eyes and pointed ears of a Highlander or Elf. The procession stopped at a triangle like stone building where it's figured is a temple where there are others assumed to be priests there along with a chair in front of the doors.

He got off chair by slaves lowering it to the ground and walked up the steps to the chair.

Eric is told by high priest wearing mask of a gonoid God, Anubis "Kneel."

Anubis waved hands over him while chanting in foreign language words not understood but appearing to be said "Ay Kabaiya!"

Eric appeared to be staring onto the floor as Anubis is handed hanging a hanging lantern which he waved over him still chanting away. Anubis hands off lantern then placed hands on Eric's head closing his eyes with his hands.

Anubis spoke "You shall be known as your name, Eric, ruler of the kingdom Egyptia."

Anubis' hands picked at Eric's eyes which he opened and the priest take a crown off the masked head and place it on his head. He rolled his eyes while making out a small gasp as he felt a tiny jolt of pleasure. The jolt of pleasure involved my form heating up from poisoned withdrawal including breathing normally via own body. Then he stood up and went to the chair to sit which crowd got onto their knees foreheads to the ground with arms in front of them.

He spoke loudly "I am Pharaoh Eric ruler of Kingdom Egyptia. I will rule the people well."

Eric appeared to be assisted by a priest called Omar who gave him advice on ruling.

I found some of the advice is demanding insisting "Pharaoh do this and that while ruling as Pharaoh!"

Eric appeared to be in love with a female slave with long sun colored hair named Sabba that appeared to use some Compeller's Builder's voice tone onto him.

Eric spoke via compulsion "I declared Sabba as my queen!" despite his priest's words speaking "I must protests with objections!"

He and Sabba eat food before they went to bed asleep after that with her next to him. I passed out unconscious despite literally feeling my back punched by Sabba repeatedly including she sensed tugging at my pants I found wasn't removable. Eric or I appeared too passed out. He waked up in the morning to discover Sabba dead with claw marks on her and her neck is broken.

Eric act like he killed her got upset like what the Meritanian says "Having a crying hissy fit."

The priest Omar arriving into the room appearing to be aware of Sabba's death not glancing at the bed spoke "It's a bad omen to mate with slaves for your gonoid side came out and said no to slaves hence the killing."

Eric appeared to mourn Sabba's death wound up sitting on his bed staring at the ceiling lengthy as night and day go by. He appeared to not acknowledge anything all around him or the food brought to his lips. He kept on lying there till a female slave arrived into the room carrying a tray of food that straddles him and kisses him on the lips.

She overheard speaking "There's more to life than lying there motionless so do something amusing now!"

Eric saw the female a slave and shakes his staring at the ceiling mood enough to get up from the bed and spoke "I declare you my queen!"

The female acted rude to Eric speak "I don't want anything to do with you!"

Eric didn't back down instead corner the female in the room after getting up from the bed. He found her thrusting a knife at his neck when he cornered her to kiss her. Omar arrived into the room to get the female slave away from him to his annoyance.

Omar wound up speaking "You're not to mate with Niya, the slave, for it's not what the Pharaoh is supposed to be doing."

Eric responded by going to Omar and thrusting a clawed hand onto the male's face scratching him to snarl "You will allow me to mate with Niya I want brought to my bedroom now! I as your Pharaoh orders it!"

Omar is seen by guards darting away in sight with a hand over his cheek where Eric scratched him. This was followed by Niya entering the room with her arms folded.

Eric spoke "Get in bed now, Niya."

He found his order obeyed but she thrust a knife at his neck when he attempted to lie on top of her. Knife felt like a sword's point pricking my neck to bleed a bit. I didn't realize it that the sword pricking was a result of an argument on whether my blood was sky blue or human dark red. My blood turned out to be sky blue as indicated by the cut wound that healed up despite clones don't have that color actually or that easily to heal method.

As I was saying story wise Eric spoke "I wanting you as mine when I first saw you-"

Niya interrupted speaking "You killed a slave female and I refused to suffer her fate."

Eric spoke "Niya, just kill me for I still want to mate with you if you're afraid of me."

He closed his eyes and waited as the knife presses harder into the side of his neck. He kept his face into a pleading expression as he sensed the knife off his throat and Niya kissing him on the lips hands on his cheeks. Eric appeared to be is her first when it comes to mating.

Then after the mating is done Eric speak to her in whispered tones "I have a gonoid side which is poisonous lips, clawed hands giving up poison and great strength."

She responded "I'm being fine with this."

Eric fell asleep and waked up sensing Niya in trouble to see Omar with guards in the room holding her with priest having a knife at her throat.

Omar is heard while Eric is quietly getting up behind the priest's back with guards not giving him away "Eric mating with a slave girl will ruin my plans to control him in his rule over the kingdom. I will have to kill Niya like I killed this slave girl dubbed Sabba by snapping her neck and getting Eric's venomous claws on her body while he was passed out by a sleep drug in his food and drink."

Eric appeared to get mad roared loudly surprising Omar who turned around dropping Niya from his knife hold. Omar is attacked by Eric who used his claws on the priest's face who appeared to die from the venom in the scratches. Guards take priest's body away as Eric calmed down and allow Niya to hold him. He leaned his face on her head relaxing some more from her arms on him. He let Niya bring him to the bed and then they mate again.

Eric spoke "I'm declaring my love to you along with hoping to have you as my equal, my queen."

The scene changes via TV's screen as Eric receives a visitor an ambassador of the High Council group on Terrania wearing red hooded robes speaking "I am asking you about choosing a reason for living."

Eric saw Niya put tray with drinks on ottoman next to his throne chair. He got up as she knelt with head down he ignoring the High Council's member's question.

He spoke "I have already chosen a female as my queen."

Eric went to Niya pulling her up who won't look at him.

He kissed her on the lips and speaks "I have chosen Niya as my queen."

Eric spoke his words while hearing the High Council member spoke "I must protests to this!"

Niya was stiff to the touch which Eric whispered in her ear "I'm begging you to be my queen and my equal."

He ignored the High Council member took her to his bedroom to resume kissing her on the lips while feeling her really stiff.

He pleaded with a begging tone "I want you as my queen to accept as mine."

Niya he heard haltingly agreed in a broken voice eyes still not looking at him "...I...agree..."

He held her and brought her to the bed and mated with her. Once done night arrived fell asleep. He waked up in the sunlight to discover her gone and goes out of bedroom in the buff roaring for her while feeling angry.

Omar or another form of his priest is there with his guards as he roars "I want Niya now! You'll have to go out searching for her!"

His guards point out his nudity with their eyes and heads staring at him which he saw and realized that he's not wearing clothes. He went back into bedroom put on clothes as Omar followed him. He was forced by Omar using Compeller's voice chatter tones to eat and drink food set at a table in the room. Omar's voice sounds like Kurpanov Kossman himself, ordering me to eat the food and drink. I literally obeys to takes in the nourishment and then once done getting up fell to the floor unconscious.

I as Eric waked up to discover it's nighttime and he or I was lying on the floor appearing to be a rug, while hearing crying sounds. I saw Niya standing in front of a window looking twin to the Zesky Asylum's window via cafeteria's room as I got up.

I went to Niya rubbing her back speaking "You're not leaving me again for you're as mine as my queen."

I heard Niya speak sounding different from what I normally heard "My father abused my mother after speaking twin words you spoke to her using the word Priestess instead of queen. My father in one of his angry rages killed my mother in front of me who I as a child ran away. I was found by the Pharaoh who had two slaves raise me and had me become a slave once I was old enough."

I stiffened hearing the words as Niya adds "My father was Omar the priest who didn't recognize me when he tried to have me killed. I'm afraid of suffering my mother's fate hence myself trying to run away. A Priest named Trevor caught me and talked sense to me into revealing the truth to you."

I lowered my hands went to chair appearing to be an armchair and sat staring at her while in the Zesky Asylum.

I did later say I heard Niya speaking words saying "I can't have a relationship with you because I'm Edenia the Ambassador. I can't have a relationship with anyone. Sorry, Eric, but you'll have to pair yourself with someone else for sexual relationships means."

She resumed crying while continuing to stand in front of my window. I continued to stare at Niya who kneel curling into a ball while still crying away. I acting as Eric got up walking towards Niya to pick her up carrying her to a bed in a room. Eric placed her on and pulled the blanket on her form. He got into bed wrapping his arms around her as she fell asleep which he lied awake for a bit.

I wound up hearing a voice "Eric, get some sleep for you'll need it."

Eric closed his eyes and fell asleep as if obeying the order as the scene changed with he is in throne room sparring with a guard using Mikans.

His guard gets his Mikan out of his hands then halts to speak "Pharaoh, see about picking up your weapon to resume the fight."

Eric as seen while appearing to not realizing it uses blurry speed to go to the Mikan picking it up.

I heard guards around him gasp out "God!"

The word didn't register to me from the language used. I easily dismissed but sensed confusion like the guards spoke some foreign language wording to me.

Messenger boy arrives in room speaking "Guards have requested Pharaoh Eric to the fighting room."

Eric agreed to go walks with guards escorting him to the room a large outdoor courtyard.

He was surrounded by guards in a circle which one spoke "I challenged Eric to a fight by Mikan!"

Eric spoke "I accepted!"

He fights with the guard who got the Mikan out of his hands as he sensed from behind him an arrow flying towards him. He twisted to his right grabbing arrow with his right hand and with left arm blocks the guard's Mikan who cuts his arm off entirely. He heard a voice speak loudly halting the spar.

"Halt the fight now!" he recognizes as the High Council member who visited him before which he sees standing with the guards.

He saw another guard who has a female slave with him knife at her throat and her hands are tied in front of her with ropes. Eric stared at female slave as if sexually attracted as guard with Mikan knocked him to a kneeling position then has blade part of Mikan at his throat.

He heard official speak "Eric killed a slave girl when she displeased him and is pleasuring himself on another slave girl."

Official High Council's Ambassador paused as guards around Eric become silent which the official continued again "Eric was raised to be spoiled doing things his way without caring about others even hurting them if he is not happy with them."

I remembered Trevor's mysterious God line spoken when I was in the sarcophagus room and guards in throne room speaking the word God while gasping. It dawns on myself has a fast ability to move twin to a Zeskaya's speeding running move something I don't really have at the moment despite still suffering from rage episodes. Excuse me for roaring...Eric looking away to eye the female who gives him a small smile he calmed by. Eric sees his left arm has reattached itself via healing to his shock.

The High Council member continued to rant "Can't Eric quit falling in love with Edenia the Ambassador and fall in love with Raisa instead?"

Eric heard guards grumble loudly "Can't this fool shut up?"

Guard with Mikan swings weapon aiming at his throat. He used blurry fast speed to get up on his feet and move till he is behind the guard. Guard turned around looking for him seeing he charged with Mikan again swinging. Eric used his ability to move behind guard who's Mikan meets air every time it swings at him. He sensed the guards surrounding him are silent as the officials are gasping loudly. This process lasts repeatedly several times till the guard with Mikan tossed it onto the ground then knelt with head bowed.

Eric eyed female slave while saying "I love you as my queen."

He saw guard besides her cut ropes binding her with knife freeing her and then gently pushes her forward then knelt as the official and guards kneel. He kept his eyes on the female whose head is bowed are staring at the ground as she hesitantly walked with halting steps towards him. He placed hands on her cheeks kissing her on the lips while feeling her kiss him back. He placed his arms around her in a hug then looked around at the kneeling people.

I spoke "I have chosen Raisa as my mate and my reasons for living are to preserve Terrania and her history to the future's generations. I expect my people to accept this."

I heard "Says we accept."

It's spoken in unison from the guards and official who are kneeling on the floor sounding of one voice spoken that was revealed to be the Souler speaker of the High Council. The scene of a TV stopped flaring followed by the Guardian of Life and Death in some form of a male despite can't describe him speaking some liner I don't remember what it was. I wound up seeing something shiny and round coming from my front that went to the Guardian to be put onto something that was tipping back and forth like a scale. I heard a shriek sounding of joy after the scale landed onto one side. I frowned as the shiny thing got back into me despite pain hitting me at the time.

I heard "Life is chosen for you! Be gone now!"

I heard the voice sounded of Lance Richard's cruel voice tone to me. I did see something else after that was of air sense of flying and wind blowing onto me. I saw something fussy round and blue with browness I wasn't sure what it was followed by the scene shifting into something else. The scene changed to show unnamed female wearing clothes identified of a black bikini with form twin to Niya's.

She was speaking in private of a bedroom "I'm pregnant."

I have via dream appeared to have accepted this news with joy. I, during Niya's pregnancy acted fascinated with the baby moving from inside her from having hands on her abdomen while feeling the movements. Niya once her abdomen is so swollen went into labor has a baby which is a boy. The boy is looking like he's inherited Niya's Human like hands and appearing to have inherited my golden eye color Niya calling him Nikolas Visser to my disgust. I wasn't sure what the point of that dream was as I dreamed another dream as if compelled by the Meritanians doing that joke onto me.

I wound up dreaming a dream of a male named Kossman with a Human like form that had red orange hair with a beard covering his mouth. I wound up not realizing that the dream was a memory of a former cloned self of me having All Seeing One abilities like a God before transported off Terrania to an unknown world. I saw via dream of Kossman paused as he stood in the cold staring at the house. He adjusted his gloves and straightened his winter coat. He walked up the sidewalk in the snow towards the screened porch. He opened the door and walked towards the front door and knocked. The door opened as a man with black hair pulled back covering his ears and a familiar face stood dressed in blue jeans with a red sweatshirt on his form.

The man stared at Kossman with an annoyed look on his face who spoke "I'm looking for Arielia. Is she here?"

The man looked behind him then slowly closed the door as Kossman added "You're not human."

The man stared at him with the same annoyed look on his face as Kossman continued "I know what you are."

The door opened wider showing a young woman wearing blue overalls and a white turtleneck underneath standing next to the man with arms folded like the man her black hair was pulled back covering her ears.

Kossman spoke "Mind if I come in? I don't want to stand in the cold."

The man stared at the woman who gave a flick of her head and he opened the door wider. Kossman stepped inside sighing feeling the heat. He stood in the hallway as the front door closed behind him while facing the stairs winding up and followed the woman further into the house. She went through a room with a table and chairs with six figures male and female all with their black hair pulled back covering their ears, sitting at the table writing in their notebooks while looking through books. They looked up to see Kossman with curiosity looks on their faces as he passed them following the woman. They went through a doorway to reach a room with a couch facing a fireplace with a fire roaring away. There were several armchairs in the room scattered. Kossman sighed seeing Arielia sitting on the couch with a female sitting next to her. He saw that she appeared to be in the middle of teaching the female sign language with her hands while speaking the words with her voice. Kossman waved his hands while walking towards Arielia who noticed him turned to face him.

He hand signed "Arielia, you alright?"  
Arielia stared at him with a curious look as she spoke using her voice "I'm fine, what are you doing here?"

Kossman answered signing with his hands and speaking using his voice "Your brother, Eric, sort of told me that you were in trouble."

Arielia frowned as she spoke "Eric is always worried about me. What sort of trouble did he say I was in?"

Kossman replied with both his hands and voice "Oh nothing of sorts. He was insisting that I go check on you."

I found nothing coming to mind in that dream I had involving Kossman but darkness and a voice speaking "Don't look! I know what happens next!"

I focused onto the voice as if compelled recognizing it was female and belonging to someone sounding familiar to me I not sure who. I wound up focusing onto the voice as if needing to do it to find an image fully into my mind of a female wearing smooth black clothing and having Human black eyes with black hair and white skin colors seated in a wheelchair.

I frowned thinking to myself "Why am I dreaming this?"

I heard nothing in response to my question but snickering like laughter sounding familiar to me that sounded like I've heard that laugh before. I frowned as I found myself lying onto a bed clad in nothing but underwear shorts on my form. I found a cloth covering my eyes blocking my view from seeing anything. I wound up finding myself in restraints cloth that were wrapped around my ankles and wrists as I laid in bed feeling myself sweating abruptly. I found my rages taking control making me roar loudly. I heard my voice after a lengthy silence of the breathing device sounded alien to me and didn't sound normal like my regular voice to me. I found the rages continued through my form that made me roar repeatedly over and over. I heard a snickering like laughter sound that sounded into my mind like I knew that laugh somewhere. I frowned as I squirmed while in the bed feeling a hand covering my forehead and rubbing soothingly. I recalled a memory involving mediation within my mind or an Eric's mind obeyed to that memory's instructions forcing me to silence my roaring and breathe deeply. I breathed deeply through my mouth huffing in and out breaths forcing me to refrain from roaring loudly. I found the hand onto my forehead remained soothingly rubbing to my relief. I frowned as I heard laughter sounding again in my mind.

I felt annoyance with the laughter to found me blurting "Who's laughing? I don't find this funny."

I heard silence in response but heard a voice speaking into my mind "Sleep, sleep, sleep."

I found myself compelled by the voice to sleep obeyed passing out unconscious to dream a dream.

I dreamed of myself as an Eric stood in his quarters with his hands on his mate Brianna's back. Her hands were on his cheeks and as he kissed her on the lips. He deepened the kiss when he heard banging on the door to the quarters. With a loud groan he let go of Brianna who let go of him and he went to the door opening it. Trigans with a humanoid ape form and my clawed hands of poison stood one held in the arms of two.

The Trigan held spoke "Its Ricky. He scratched me when I tried to stop him from leaving the hallway."

Eric spoke "Brianna-"

She interrupted him "I heard, I'll attend to him, go get our son."

Eric growled and darted down the hallway towards the doors which opened and two Trigans came stumbling out falling to knees.

One of the Trigan spoke "Ricky went upstairs. He scratched us when we tried to stop him."

Eric went pass them and up the stairs.

He stopped by doorways to peer in hallways yelling "Eric Junior!"

He walked up the stairway and froze when he heard a loud voice above of him speaking "Where you going, Ricky? I'm not here to stop you. I'm curious to know where you're going and I want to come along."

Eric ran up the stairs as he heard Ricky gave a loud roaring sound followed by Teorjer's voice via identification speaking "What's the matter Ricky, cat got your tongue? Talk with words if you don't want me to follow you, say so, but no roaring I'm not fluent in that."

He paused from running to catch his breath when he heard the sound of a door opening and slamming shut followed by Teorjer speaking loudly "Eric, if you're in the stairwell, we stopped at junction number three."

He heard a sound of door opening and slamming shut as he continued up the stairs reading writings on the doorways stopping at the desired door. Eric pulled open and walked inside entering a dim lighted hallway that was metal all around. He jogged to the open a crack door at the end and yanked it open to show Teorjer standing with arms folded. Behind Teorjer were a set of steps leading down.

Teorjer spoke "Eric, about time you arrived. Ricky appears to be acting on compelling instincts that are controlling him to make him act like this so be careful. I can't follow due to the darkness but you can."  
Eric looked around with night vision of entirely yellow color to see the room was a large room with numerous thick cylinder tubes with thick wires attached to the ceiling. He could see figures floating in the tubes not moving as he darted down the steps. Eric opened his mouth to talk when he remembered Teorjer's words and clamped his mouth shut. He passed by rows of tubes with figures floating in them, his eyes searching for Ricky. Eric paused when he heard loud beeping noises and darted towards the noise to see a tube bend down towards the floor with Ricky besides it. He reached the tube as it lay on its side to see Ricky with a strange intense look on his face walk towards the end part without wires attached. Eric paused to stare at the tube contents that held a small figure as Ricky reached the end and pressed a button on the tube console. He heard a loud beep noise followed by water splashing to see a figure come out of the tube to lie on a metal bed at the end next to Ricky. He frowned as he walked to stand next to Ricky ignoring him as his son pulled out an oxygen mask from the tube console and placed on the figure's face. The figure, Eric saw, was a naked wet young female Highlander with long hair, about Ricky's age lying there.

He frowned some more as Ricky held the Highlander's hand with his clawed hand spoke with a worried tone "Wake up Zaramia, your out of the tube."

Eric stared at the Highlander who coughed shaking her head then opened her eyes which darted around unseeing Ricky and himself.

He heard Ricky speak "Zaramia, its Ricky. I'm here and so is my Dad. He'll carry you to the others where we'll help you, won't you Dad?"

He gulped as Ricky turned to stare at him with a pleading look on his face.

Eric spoke as his son took off the oxygen mask on Zaramia's face "Ricky, your going to have to explain this one of these days."

He stared at Ricky who pulled out a large towel like blanket from underneath the bed and gave it to Zaramia who wrapped herself in it. He walked forward and picked up Zaramia wrapped in the towel blanket then followed Ricky to the stairs. The trio went up the stairs to meet Teorjer standing at the top that pushed open the door and followed Eric carrying Zaramia following Ricky out of the room. Eric groaned feeling the familiar headache of his mind scanned from Zaramia held in his arms.

He spoke "Zaramia, I can detect you scanning me."

He heard a small female voice from Zaramia speak "Oh sorry didn't know that."

Eric sighed as he felt the headache left him and followed Ricky out of the hallway and down the stairs pass doorways. Eric frowned as he heard the sound of a door opening and closing from behind him as he followed Ricky down the stairs. The three reached the double doors to the hallway that led to the Hybrids' quarters. He followed Ricky into the cafeteria and saw Brianna running towards them with a worried expression on her face. She, Eric saw, reached Ricky grabbing him in a hug while speaking "Ricky, you want to explore the place, you tell an adult and don't go off without one of us escorting you."

Eric sighed as he placed Zaramia down who walked up to Brianna who added "Ricky, who's your friend here?"

He folded his arms as Ricky spoke "This is Zaramia."

Eric eyed Zaramia with suspicion that without a word went to Ricky, he noticing them jerk walking towards each other. He frowned as they both met each other via hands onto palms touching each other followed by a hug.

Eric found himself angry finding his mood turning fouler snarled angrily "This is ridiculous."

He went to Zaramia and picked her up from behind yanking the pair from Ricky who protested "But dad!"

He ignored Ricky's protest to sling Zaramia over his shoulder and carried her out of the room he feeling the Highlander banging onto his back.

"Don't you dare dump me off the boat!" he heard from Zaramia.

Eric felt like doing that idea but dismissed it as he carried Zaramia out of the room to take a maze of corridors and stairwells while finding Ricky followed them.

He halted once on the stairwell as Ricky made a grab for Zaramia he speaking "Ricky, go back now!"

Ricky to his annoyance spoke "Just leave me with Zaramia!"

Eric felt annoyance take hold found himself in another rage episode found Ricky managed to pull Zaramia out of his hand's holds as he roared and roared from the rages. Eric found his eyesight clouding up via whiteness as he found his efforts to hold onto Zaramia blocked by Ricky taking advantage of his roaring fit to snatch her off of him. He roared and roared till once the rages went through found Ricky and Zaramia gone from the stairwell but the door to the land deck was closed.

He gave up a growl and snarled loudly "Little bugger took her down with the others. I'll insist on this manipulator gone from the ship or I'll toss her off the deck into the water."

He heard a faint whooshing sound and looked around for Brianna finding her no where in sight. Growling angrily he stomped down the stairs to the cafeteria's room finding Brianna and Ricky with Zaramia no where in sight to his disgust. Eric found himself roaring another hissing fit of his rages again as he found Brianna no where in sight to comfort him. Eric roared and roared sensing the door to the room manipulated and banged several times to his disgust. He kept on roaring seemingly lengthy till he found his rages left him. Eric walked out of the cafeteria to find Brianna in the hallway standing alone that gave him a questioning look on her face. He ignored Brianna and stomped by her to the stairwell finding no one in sight. Eric went to Brianna as he found his rages resumed to his disgust, he roaring angrily. He got nothing in response from Brianna but sensed her standing nearby him watching.

He once done with the rages went to Brianna and spoke "Did you tell that little bugger to remove that manipulator out of the ship like I wanted?"

Brianna he saw appeared to gasp followed by her speaking "Yes I did. Don't worry about it, Eric."

I as Eric frowned but didn't comment a response as the dream went black.

I found myself back in bed shaking the efforts of sleep from my eyes as I looked around the room finding night vision of purple with pinks seen instead of my familiar yellowed vision. I didn't realize it at the time that the All Seeing One on Terrania did some magical ability onto manoids to have that ability. That was the All Seeing One doing it despite the High Council claiming responsibility did some eyed experiment onto my eyes hence my vision seeing something different from normal yellowed vision. I frowned finding the eyes' cloth was removed from my eyes as I lay on the bed. I looked around eyeing the room to find a humanoid in pink color entirely, appearing to be a Zeskaya seated leaning back in an armchair a soft snoring sound was heard from the male. I opened my mouth to speak only to gasp for air instead of speaking. I found the cloth was still on my form as I gave the wrists' band a loud rip. I reached a hand towards my face only to find the Zeskaya awaken and grabbing my hand and giving me the sleep command mentally. I passed out unconscious as a result of that.

I dreamed of a male Human wearing a doctor's coat that had the name tag of Roger. Roger opened the door to a dark room to hear a wailing sound and reached a hand towards the light switch.

I heard a voice speak "Roger, don't. I mated with Elisa who had a baby boy I dub Liam who is like baby Kurpanov and his brother himself."

Roger stepped into the room staring in the darkness and sensed a squirming form placed in his arms. He left the room carrying the baby into the light. He looked at the boy who had a shock of dark colored hair with golden eyes and waving clawed hands.

Sighing Roger spoke "Liam-"

I heard interrupting as I found myself shaking sleepiness from my eyes again restrained by the restraints this time they were metallic with chains attached to my disgust.

I heard in my mind blaring "The colony once full of life was silent. The compounds and towers by day were empty. But at night, figures moved, like shadows dancing voices speaking alien. Crops were abandoned. The ground became bare, air was soon gone. The ground of the colony became dark rocky dirt and harsh with mountains. The natives gave it a new name and a new song sang in the colony. During those times, the kids, grew as children learning many things in a fast move to their father. Life underground was different with the life on the surface."

I groaned loudly finding the awaken Zeskaya at my side holding onto my clawed hand as the voice quit its droning in my mind.

I spoke finding my ability to speak there "Who said that liner story anyway?"

I heard snickering like laughter sounding familiar including hearing "Wakey, wake it's rude to sleep when there's visitors present."

I found the Zeskaya again managed to put me to sleep instead of answering my question to my disgust of as the alien male's voice was heard repeating his words. I found the male's voice kept me awake instead of obeying the Zeskaya's sleep command.

I snarled angrily "Cut it out with the putting me to sleep now! Quit the joke of putting me awake now will you?!"

I glared at the Zeskaya with annoyance running through me as the male's voice was stopped speaking its wakening words along with feeling a familiar head pain. I grunted in response to the familiar head pain as the Zeskaya was sensed gripping my hand in a tight ironclad grip. I found my hands were gloved into their familiar gloves in response to my poisonous clawed hands to my relief.

I grunted from the pain as the Zeskaya was heard speaking verbalizing words "You should be asleep sleeping off the pain your suffering from."

I gave the Zeskaya a glare and spoke as my rages hit again "Why should I sleep when it's better to be awake?"

I heard in response "Just sleep."

I spoke while roaring "Why should I sleep?! It's not amusing being lay up in bed doing nothing but sleeping!"

I found the familiar voice again snickering in my mind as my head whined of pain to me. It made me grimace further groaning softly from the rages within me. The head pain I felt made me remember being mind scanned that was making me aware of the Meritanians' presence that gave me a sting of pain in my head. The head pain involved whenever my mind was scanned by Highlanders and Meritanians. I found the Zeskaya's hand still onto my hand gripping the gloved area in a tight ironclad move as I squirmed onto the bed willing the rages to leave.

I heard the Zeskaya sent a mental message to the Meritanians sensed mind scanning the male "Mission failed on trying to keep original from suffering pain. Nothing can be done about it without the Meritanians' rude interference."

I heard nothing in response to the Zeskaya's mental message figured that the Meritanians weren't interested in talking to me despite feeling my mind scanned by them. I continued to grunt and groan from the head pain followed by the rages clearing up.

I gave the Zeskaya a glare and snarled angrily "Zeskaya, why's the Meritanians mind scanning me?"

I got in response the sleep command from the Zeskaya as I heard snickering from the Meritanians sounding of male and female voices to my annoyance sounding not of Tank or Merra to me as I passed out unconscious.

I or soul whatever it's called found me floating above my body that was lying in a bed wearing chain manacles. I found myself flying through walls like a ghost seeing the Zesky Asylum was a gathering space for Zeskayas as I saw the Zesky Asylum was sitting underwater intact with hardly any fishes going by. I frowned as I eyed the area as if compelled to do it to find the sea boat was in the bottom of a lake in a middle of a large crater of rocks in the ocean. I found the area appeared to belong to King Winter's Kingdom by the looks of the icebergs floating around outside the crater that balked getting inside the crater. I kept on eyeing the area as if compelled to do it to find two Meritanian plants rising from the water in an area free of ice bergs and spotted something nearby them sticking out of the water. I eyed the area I saw was a land deck of metallic metal and had a human male with a facial's look of a Highlander but ears were rounded human like while wearing a blue suit. I eyed the male as if drawn to found him familiar like I knew him somewhere but wasn't sure. The male, I saw, stood on the land deck shaking his head and forming disgust on his face. I heard snickering like laughter from the Meritanians again as I eyed the male warily. I found the male was joined by another male Human wearing a familiar uniform that stood clearing his throat. The male in the suit turned to acknowledge the uniformed male but remained staring at the Meritanians.

I frowned as I heard the uniformed male speaking wording that took me a bit to recognize the language as Oceanan and the words.

I heard "Your Majesty, it's time for you to go inside now. The weather is predicted to get not suitable for Humans."

I frowns hearing the titled name of Your Majesty as I eyed the Human with confusion finding the male seemed familiar to me.

I eyed the guard only to hear "Pavel Palin turns tail and goes inside haha!"

I stiffened with shock running through me hearing the name of Pavel Palin to recognize the male fully as Emperor Pavel Palin in a Human's eared appearance and nothing involving Highlander's pointed eared look. I gave Pavel a glare that with urging by the guard grabbing his arm got inside some ladder in the land deck with a metallic cover covering it in place. I found myself compelled to follow ghostly despite not sure of how I was doing that ghostly traveling. I following the Emperor and his guard Tikcanni, I assumed was his titled name meeting other guards on the way. The guards like Tikcanni were clad in Oceana's guard uniforms. The guards led the way to a spot in the window showing an underwater sea view I finding a creature clinging to the window like glue. I felt disgust take hold seeing the creature was oily black looking with clawed lobster clawed hands and an antenna like head with beady black eyes and a beaked mouth of a bird in place. I eyed the creature as if not knowing who it was as Emperor stopped nearby that creature to ram a fist into the creature's front. I exhaled a breath twin move to the creature who ignored the Emperor's fist instead remained onto the window.

"Get this piece of garbage, Tennan as they refer themselves, off my window and out of my palace now!" I heard blared by the Emperor.

I frowns hearing the name of Tennan to figure it belonged to the creature as it crawled up the window into the air ducts disappearing out of sight.

I eyed the Emperor who snarled adding "Do something about the peeping toms the Meritanians are sickening onto me and my family in the palace!"

I found myself gliding away from the Emperor going into the air rising above the area. I saw was a chain of islands gathered in a circle as I rose further into the air. I kept on rising as if compelled till I heard voices talking loudly distracting me from that.

I heard the voices sounded of panic to me despite unsure of the language as I felt a hand touching my hand in an ironclad grip. I gripped the hand back as if needing to do it to hear garbled voices quit sounding panicky. I frowned as I met with a rainstorm and the ocean a sea of maelstrom angry via the scene showing itself to me. I focused onto the ocean as if compelled to find in the ocean sat a sea vessel that was going up and down the ocean. The sea vessel reminded me of something I wasn't sure of what it was. The sea vessel appeared to be unaffected by the maelstrom of an angry sea with clouds of thunder and lightening flashing as a ship sat in the water.

I focused onto the sea vessel seeing a name sprayed off the sides saying "Agamemnon."

I was compelled to go towards the sea vessel as if compelled to find a sea bridge where officers were standing while sweating. I found a male was seated in a seat wearing a uniform of entirely black with a broach of watery looks on the side off the heart on the left. The male was appearing to be the Captain who was tapping his fingers onto the chair's armrests like in an impatient mood.

The Captain snarled out loud "Curse the Humans curse the Fishla for their interference."

He roared in anger sounding twin to me myself suffering from rages to my disgust.

I heard "Mysterious ways must be to our advantage."

I saw the Captain glared at the speaker I recognized as a Tennan that have spoken while still clinging to the wall I confused to why the Tennan sounded girlish but in a masculine voice tone.

I eyed the Tennan as the Captain glared at the Tennan and spoke "Why is the Queen lazy when it comes to creating warships? I need more firepower to counterattack the Fishla and their rude interference."

I frowned hearing the Captain's words as the male glared at the Tennan who spoke sounding firm "Creation use come to end. No more ships created. Queen says enough of creation."

The Captain gave the Tennan a glare of accusation in response that ignored him still clinging to the pipes.

The Captain in response roaring out "Take this piece of garbage, Tennan off my bridge and out of my sight now!"

I found myself flying away in response to focus onto something with a light beeping as if compelled. I focused onto the light blinking from a console as a hand appearing to be Human like touched the beeping button pressing it a console beeped.

A male voice spoke "Got a message from the three. The one's attempt to escape failed. They got him again."

Another male voice spoke "By the one!"

A feminine musical beeping toned voice spoke "Do not lose hope. They have Leader One alive and are still finding him valuable."

I found myself back into my body abruptly from my trip out of my body. I found myself hit with sweatiness hitting me all over as my body sweat liquid off of me.

I heard a voice speaking "I warned you that this would happen to him."

I focused via my eyes to find the room contained three Zeskayas as there was a male wearing a look of a doctor's uniform and scrubs on his form with head bared. I saw the male seemed familiar to me like I knew him someplace as I eyed the male a doctor as assumed. I heard a throat clearing noises from the doctor as the Zeskayas in response threw a piece of cloth covering my eyes blocking my view of the male.

I found my throat dry and cracked my lips in response while speaking "...Drink...."

"Water will poison him actually." I heard from a male voice sounding familiar to me.

I continued to crack my lips despite them dry as I felt myself thirsty abruptly spoke "...What..."

I heard a Zeskaya speaking the sleep command found me passing out unconscious to dream a dream I knew was of a memory involving a cloned self.

Eric stood on a land deck of a warship that was oily and black looking as a piece of it detached itself like a birth showing a smaller version of the oily ship. He found the piece appeared to be a fighter or some version as he got inside. Eric flew the fighter into the planet from space after going outside the planet to eye it. I found the planet seemed twin to what I saw from Terrania but was confused to why Emperor Palin and his guards had a Human eared look as Eric flew the fighter. Eric flew the fighter over a big continent like land that I recognized as Americania. He flew over the buildings towering in the sky made him turn the fighter in another direction as if compelled by the land's Meritanian. He heard tattle tell beeping its noises from being attached to the fighter involving a mind connected to the fighter which his eyes focused on a monitor screen reading words translating the mind's talk.

Eric read "Meritanian is manipulating my visual on seeing via mind."

He spoke "Just a little detour don't worry."

He flew the fighter allowing his senses connected to Americania to guide him traveling over the buildings till his eye focused on a big tower standing separate in a group. I sensed something familiar about them but couldn't identify the building. Eric flew the fighter in an arc around them eyes searching till he found a landing pad appearing to be a road covered with grasses. He set down his fighter with a thud. He opened the cockpit top and removed his helmet setting it down besides him. He got up from the fighter and used the ladder to climb down as the mind via drone form came down besides him.

He spoke "Eli stay and guard."

He heard a beep noise from the mind as he adjusted his cloak putting on his hood covering his head and walked seeking an entrance to one of the buildings in sight. He found one and walked inside feeling his senses blare warnings and familiarity at the same time which made him tensed up. Eric willed himself to calm as he walked feeling his weapon a sword banging against him that made him feel less tensed. He walked through hallways silent of people with his eyes searching and looking. He paused from walking to shut his eyes using the senses to guide him which made him turn in a direction and he opened his eyes walking in that direction.

He traveled till he reached a large room that made him think "It's an electronic library." with consoles in it sitting in silence.

Eric went to a console and stared at it as his senses blared warning alerting him of presences in the room hidden. He willed himself to calm keeping his eyes on the console using his senses involving his unnamed powers to seek the hidden people. His senses in the mental abilities alerted him of someone was walking towards him in a fast motion. He heard footsteps loudly on his left looked to see a figure walking towards him.

He saw was an old woman wearing a dress with some look in her eyes that made him think "She's not friendly despite her lips in a frown line."

He turned his form towards her as she reached him pausing from walking to stare at him with some look he sensed that she was calculating something.

Eric spoke via electronic device attached to his form speaking in Americanian language "Hello? I'm Terrania who are you?"

He eyed the woman who widens her eyes but the calculating look remained. His senses blare warning on both sides of him as he sensed round cylinder objects heading towards him. Eric found the cylinders hitting him all over his form as he found more cylinders halted their progress and heard clattering sounds as the objects hit the floor. He kept his eyes on the woman as he sensed people darting towards him from hidden spots in the room kept himself calm as he removed his hood from covering his head with a hand. His senses blared warning as his ears heard running footsteps sounding all around him. He clasped his hands to himself and waited as figures came into his eyes sight appearing to be men wearing multiple clothing of different types and holding gun devices in their hands that were pointed at him. Eric found a cylinder dart into his neck knocking him out unconscious.

I dreaming this dream realized to myself "It's a memory of someone I'm dreaming."

I found via memory of an Eric wakes up restrained in some small arena and gets tested by the people throwing life and death tests at him while freeing he from the restraints. I saw via memory of myself to face the tests and uses his sword that was put on a shelf high above him to block the weapons of knifes thrown at him. Eric uses the unnamed mental abilities to bring to him the sword and uses the weapon to defend himself from other weapons' fire aimed at him along with destroying droids that attack him. Eric figures out that the people are testing him on his ability by their expressions on their faces watching him through windows high above in the arena. He notices the old woman still has some calculating look on her face in her eyes that makes him suspicious. He saw during a test she's gone elsewhere which he finds the tests stop senses that their ended. Eric puts his sword away and looks around to see a door opening.

The door shows the old woman walking into the arena who hisses to him in Americanian "You're to name your parentage!"

Eric found himself saying "Eric Zesky." as his father's name.

It's while noticing that the old woman has widen eyes and mentions "I wasn't raised by my father but by someone else unknowing of who my father was till I was full grown."

He gets asked by the old woman "Who taught you the use of the Source we call your mental abilities involving eyes change?"

Eric spoke "The name is of the All Seeing One named Lance Richard." seeing her eyes widened a bit.

He recognizes that she's aware of who he's talking about.

Eric sensed something is going on as the old woman introduces herself "I'm known by the name of Keeper. I'm the leader of people keeping maintenance in this building. An Assassin Lord underneath the High Council's commands came to the building. The Assassin Lord has come and goes using the building's contents without bothering to ask for permission first. We've suffered casualties by the Assassin Lords' hands. Hence we wary towards people having the Source in them. The tests we threw towards you were to determine your Source's abilities by having you demonstrate them."

Eric overheard thinking "I sense there's more to the old woman's story she is telling me."

Eric doesn't comment on that keeps his mouth shut and folds his arms looking like he's interested on his face as Keeper he assumes he'll call her pauses from talking. She wound up look up at the people above them and then again looks at him.

She adding "It's been a long time since a disciple of Lance Richard came to the building. We recognized in you from the way you acted towards us which is not what an Assassin Lord of the High Council normally acts which is rude and demanding with orders for us to do things for them along with threatening us harm if we balk the orders-"

Keeper was interrupted by a siren sounding loudly followed by the female speaking "Kindly show us your back now please."

Eric obeyed to find himself seated inside his fighter shaking sleepiness from his form as the mind's Eli was silent. He found himself flying the fighter as if compelled to get it out of the street silent of people. I figured it was a memory of something for me to see. I saw that the Eric in my mind flew the fighter out of Americania towards the ocean to land on a familiar warship I recognized as oily and disgusting to me. I frowned as the male got out of the fighter and collapsed onto the oily ground followed by disappearing in a light show. I recognized the light show belonging to the Meritanians to find Eric dumped into the ocean near the Emperor's sea deck I shocked to see the male wasn't suffering from water poisoning. I saw the male sputter water from his eyes as he woke up and swam towards the land deck to get over it as there was a faint alarm sound. I found guards of the Kaddar coming out via ladders and pointing their gun weapons at my twin I assumed was the Eric. I confused to why I was dreaming that dream as seeing that memory as that male. I frowned as the male was knocked unconscious via electrical jolts hitting him from the Kaddars' guns turning the scene to darkness of nothingness.

I found myself back into my bed still chained and shaking sleepiness from me despite Meritanians' snickering like laughter was heard in my mind. I again felt the familiar headache of my mind scanned as I grunted and roared a rage episode running through me again.

I growled out "What's going on within me dreaming these dreams of myself or twin?"

I heard "Sleep, sleep, sleep."

I found myself passing out unconscious as if compelled.

I dreamed of myself mating with Niya despite a hand felt rubbing my sensitive part to my shock. It woke me up to feel a blindfold covering my eyes.

I heard voices speaking "Eric via memories of him either has dream of mating with Niya again or mates with Merra for real. As in mating with his private in an organ inside Merra then later hears Merra groaning in pain demands she transport him there. She transports him there where he yanks out Risa and Raisan who have clawed hands with poison like he is along with wearing black skinned clothing."

I found myself recalling the wording as a memory as I recalled Eric got Merra to yank out organ that she carried children with due to poison. Eric stands calmly as Raisan tries to attack him with his fists and hands but can't touch him due to he being calm. Eric feels Risa wrap her front on his leg as Raisan hugs him. Merra transports them to medical room where Trevor from memory as a doctor, walks in and chats with Risa and Raisan while scanning them as Eric is transported back to his quarters. Eric falls asleep in bed cuddling Niya via spoon fashioning to get the rages interrupting that memory. I again got my rages as I roared out a wording over and over.

I thought I was yelling "Brianna!"

I didn't realize it at the time but I was yelling "Terrania my Terrania!"

I groaned feeling a hand webby like rubbing my forehead as I remained lying in bed chained while having the rages running through me. I sighed from the webby hands that felt soothing to me as I found my rages going away but the blindfold remained. I found my throat no longer dry but wet from liquid poured into it via straw.

Along with hearing "Drink it up, Eric!"

I sucked onto the straw obeying the order recognizing the voice belonging to someone I was sure I've heard before but wasn't sure who it was.

I sucked the milk via straw till nothing came out and heard "That's an enough of sucking, Eric. Let go of the straw now."

I obeyed to release the straw and found my voice speaking "Raisa?"

I found myself annoyed with what I blurted including the familiar snickering like laughter of a female Meritanian sounding into my mind.

I sighed and spoke "Let me see you."

I heard in response "He's either wants to see you or your Mother is playing a joke again. I can hear her laughing in my mind as usual."

I frowned as the blindfold was removed followed by blinking my eyes from a glare of a lamp shining in the room. I focused with the rages running on and off within me onto a female seated in a metallic chair that looked familiar. I exhaled a breath and inhaled recognizing her as Raisa, Merra's daughter who gave me a narrowed eyed Human black eyed glare. I gulped recognizing the glare was twin to Brianna's glare when she wanted me to acknowledge something.

I spoke "I love you, Raisa."

I rolled my eyes and leaned back onto the bed groaning loudly as I heard "Brianna is your name not Raisa isn't it?"

I focused onto the female in the metallic chair that got up walking to my bed and without a word sat next to me gripping one of my clawed hands in a tight ironclad grip. I recognized Brianna's face on Raisa's body's looks despite having Raisa's black hair and Human black eyes. Groaning I got another rage episode willed me to do mediation techniques despite Brianna Raisa I figured I'll refer her gripping my hand into a tight crushing grip. I once my rages went through focused onto Brianna Raisa who quit crushing my hand despite it padded by gloves. I found Brianna Raisa in response getting up from the bed and resuming sitting in the metallic chair giving me a frown look.

I heard "What did you see from touching him, Seer?"

I frowned finding one of the Zeskayas was next to Brianna Raisa head aimed at her as indicating her name as Seer.

I frowned as Seer spoke in response "Just an enough to see what he is already saw in his mind of his clones' memories fully into his mind. It's coming out jumbled mess from his point of view and appeared to be all over the place. I suspect that Walls and Kiddy are playing sick the clones with memories of originals game again. Hence they sensed scanning him when I touched him."

I frowns further hearing Seer's talk as one of the Zeskaya's spoke "Take Seer out of the room now!"

I found Seer in response laughing in some lunatic way while squirming as she sat in the chair the wheelchair while shifting her form from Brianna Raisa's form to something else to my shock. I saw a female clad in a blue scaly uniform with short blonde hair and all blue eyes as there was a Zeskaya pushing her in the wheelchair she laughing lunatically out of the room I followed via my eyes. I found night vision hitting my eyesight as one of the remaining Zeskaya shut off the lamp. I found my night vision was purple color instead of yellow like I said. I found the Zeskaya glowing pink colored as I stared with confusion. I eyed the Zeskaya warily who went to the armchair and appeared to have fallen asleep desite snickering like laughter sounding in my mind. It made my head sting from the pain of my mind scanned as I passed out unconscious.

I had a dream put there by the Meritanians, Walls and Kiddy via confession of them doing that like a joke. I telling story says to recorder this story. I dreamed of myself ran through the forest till I reaches train tracks and sees a slow moving train go by which I gets on through an opening in the freight train car that shows a room with nothing in it. I sit in it and start crying about living with no one to care for me. I sit in the corner till female wearing black clothing gets on the train which I am angry towards her.  
Female says "My name is Brianna." and as I gets the rages and discovers Brianna hugging me who calm me down.

I tell her "I want to kiss you but my lips give off poison and the cure is my skin touching the person's skin."

Brianna to my pleasure kisses me with her hands on my cheeks and my hands on her back gently rubbing. We strip each other of our clothes and mate then lie cuddled together with arms around each other. I heard Brianna make a groaning sound and then sensed her pass out as I feel her abdomen grow swollen and a baby a boy comes out. I pick up baby holding it in my arms as I stare at it.

I think "The baby was what I always wanted was to be a father along with having a mate."

I take Brianna's black shirt and wraps baby in it as I put Brianna's clothes on her form along with putting on my clothes. My clothes consisted of a blue jumpsuit with white sneakers and nothing on my form. I pick up baby and pull Brianna on her side on me with an arm around her as I lean my back to the wall.  
I get mad when a male figure with blonde hair comes into the car speaking "I won't hurt you. My name is Henry who is Brianna's brother who I am worried about her care."

Brianna as train comes to a stop wakes up to accept the baby from me and I and her with Henry leave train to find ourselves in train station which I gets knocked out by dart unconscious.

I wake up in helicopter and brought to prison after capture discovers I'm is living alone with no Ionela or the others there. I after awhile living there get lonely feels loneliness that hits me hard and gets miserable which I don't eat but lies in bed crying. I pass out wakes up in room with window while in a sitting up position on the bed which I see the cat that makes some noise.

A man comes in the room with name tag "Alexei Zesky."

Alexei holds my gloved hand as he talks to me "What's bothering you to not want to eat for a few days?"

I complained "I'm lonely and wants company including a mate to be with."

Alexei doesn't say anything but continues to hold my hand. Nurse comes in gives me food which I ravenously eats in front of Alexei and then sits back as cat sits on my chest while feeling the rages arrive. I shut my eyes grimacing as the rages run through me.

I heard Alexei's voice telling me "It'll pass." I concentrated on till I pass out.

I wake up in an all white room wearing just pants while on the floor facing a bed. I look around to see Brianna wearing a blue jumpsuit sitting near the door. I get up as she gets up. Brianna to my pleasure places hands on my muscular chest rubbing as I kisses her with gloved hands running through her hair. We strip of our clothes and then I mates with Brianna on the bed. I pull out of her and hold her in my arms as I and her pass out from smoke billowing in the room.

I wake up to discover I'm in a bed spoon fashioning Brianna who is asleep. I is confused when I hear the alarm go off and Brianna wakes up which I sits up in bed.

She says something about "It's being time to get up for its morning."

I get up to discover I'm wearing just underwear shorts which Brianna hands me folded clothing and sneakers which I puts on. It's a blue sweat pant and blue sweat top with socks and sneakers which I put on as she puts on a black sweat outfit. Brianna takes me out of the room to the hallway which I allow her to taking me to a room where there are cribs and babies inside them.

She leads me to two cribs side by side and points out "The babies are your son Nikolas called Nik and daughter Nikolina called Nikki in the cribs."

I didn't realize it at the time but the dream was actually a memory of me cloned kept to amuse Alexei Zesky while he fathered me while living at the Zesky Asylum. Mostly in place of his original son living in a Zeskaya ship underneath Anya's care. I pick up Cassie as I normally called my daughter. I holds her for the first time which I smiles a small smile. Then I place her back in her crib to let her sleep as I let Ricky as I called my son sleep in his crib. Brianna takes my hand and takes me out of the room to an office where Alexei and Kossman are there.

Alexei introduces himself to me "I'm your father biologically. This male here I introduces is Kossman as father to three daughters who shared the same mother as you."

I saw via dream changes to see recording of me at ten years old jabbed by needles and sees me scratching a woman on the face several times as she tried to comfort me while speaking in an angry tone.

I learn from Alexei "The woman is your mother who later died from the venom in your claws."

I get rages and memory of myself scratching my mother along with reason why I did this. I after calming down says "I remembers this along with recalling that Anya wouldn't give me affection like I wanted hence I scratching her on the face in retaliation for failing to do that."

I found another scene came to my mind interrupting the memory. That scene in my mind made me grimace as a reason why I was sent to sleep into a tube to sleep off a status of death hitting me. I meant disappeared status not death as I meant. I also meant a status of disappeared hitting someone I valued very strongly soon before I was put into my sleep status. I recalled the memory of me in headquarters is alerted by Jiang in the quarters with Niya of a broadcast. I see with Niya sitting next to me on the couch. Jiang translates the foreign language talk which shows a person wearing medical scrubs in front of a microphone stand standing while speaking words.

"Their talking about a newly discovered medical condition called body age breakdown which the hospital is calling it 'Brianna's Breakdown Syndrome' or B.D.S. They mentioned that Oceana mysteriously gave them recordings of the Sun Lord accompanied by a female identified as Brianna, the Sun Lord's first mate showing her appearance being altered along with her passing away." Jiang says.

I feel a little upset hearing that as Jiang continues to speak "Their saying Brianna's changing appearance they discovered hit other people and other races just prior to death. They gave it the name and after Brianna herself for being a newly discovered medical condition."

I listen as Jiang adds "The condition mostly affects people who have lived too long along with some cases of it affecting other races according to their records."

Broadcast ends as I feel upset hearing with what I heard. I am comforted by Niya while noticing her hair has barely noticeable streaks of grey in it which bothers me.

I get idea signs to Niya "Please teach me Americanian so I can understand what people are saying without needing a translator."

Niya agrees to this starts teaching me Americanian which I picks up fast to my shock after learning a few sentences.

I'm confused till Niya tells me "Americanian originated from the Zeskaya. I suspect that Eric has a part of hence being related to one of them."

I gets what's she's implying involving the language. I later find out that Niya appears to have B.D.S. which my reaction is to feel deadness hitting me. I don't feel any emotions as Niya starts to die from the syndrome. I sit on the couch staring at the wall as Niya fully old aged is in my bedroom lying on the bed attended by a medical doctor.

I'm told by doctor "Niya wants to have a private talk with you."

I went to the bedroom to sit on the bed holding her old wrinkled hand while staring at the wall above the bed not looking at her.

I listen as she speaks "I have already told the medical doctor to have my body cremated and part of my ashes scattered along with some part of them contained for you to keep to be remembered of me."

I heard her add "I won't be the last mate you'll have. I'm warning you to consider the possibly of outliving them."

I feel my hand squeezed as I lied on the bed and wraps an arm around her as I hear her breathing become lesser and lesser as her body gives up its life. I feel a sense of dj vu like what happened to Brianna prior to death. I gently rubs Niya's forehead while staring at her as there's a rasping sound heard followed by her breathing cut off. I get up from the bed to walk out of the bedroom going to the couch to sit staring at the wall. I don't acknowledge anything around me nor a prick of pain of a needle injected into my neck. I kept on staring till Kossman via Zeskaya's form arrives and slings me over his shoulder and takes me to the water ship. It's where I'm put into a tube contained to sleep.

"What else do you remember involving Niya's disappearance?" Recorder of memories asks Eric this question.

Eric appeared to be lost in thought till he spoke his answer.

I didn't realize it that a clone was put in my place in response to the poisoned status found within me. I found from memory of the cloned Eric, he feels a hand touch his shoulder and he looks up to see Kossman in tears.

Kossman who speaks "I hopes Eric will get over this."

He looks away to stare at the wall till nighttime till he heard "Your majesty get up there's something for you."

Eric does to stand staring at Jiang holding a hand length sized jeweled blue box in his hands which the guard speaks Niya's name and doesn't say anything while holding up the box towards him. He takes box and goes into his bedroom putting box gently down on the dresser next to the door before going to his side of the bed to get out of clothes putting on his pajama pants and lies on the bed leaving his hands bare. He leans against the headboard staring at his hands as the door opens showing a woman with black hair wearing a blue dress that reminds him of Brianna's walk into the room to kneel next to the bed taking one of his hands.

He sees that she has Niya's face but Zeskaya like golden eyes who speaks "I am called Niyanna, Leader's mate and I wanted to help Eric with his pain."

He doesn't react to that as Niyanna continues to speak "A replacement for Eric was considered created same way as Kossman was created was debated.

Merra warned 'There's a the possibly of the female hooked up with someone else from seeing it happen in Terrania to people who's intended go with someone else instead of them.'"

Eric frowns as Niyanna continues "The idea after another debate was rejected."

Eric forces himself to smile a small smile with a head bob towards her. He again frowns as she stands up to place a place a hand on his forehead rubbing gently which soothes him and he feels a dam burst inside him followed by tears flowing from his eyes. He watches as Niyanna removes her hand from his forehead and bents down kissing him gently on the forehead then removes her hand from his hand and walks away going out the door gently closing it behind her. He loses it cries uncontrollably as the deadness feeling leaves him. He rolls over to his side grabbing Niya's pillow putting it over his head held in place by an arm as he cries hard weeping about Niya's loss and cries himself to sleep. He dreams of himself wearing the Sun Lord uniform at a beach with water lapping and feels a hand on his shoulder which he looks to his right to see his son Eric who is wearing an identical uniform.

He feels sad as his son speaks "Oceanans believe that when a person passes away they become ghosts who watch over their current family till they go to the afterlife."

Eric feels tears flowing from his eyes as his son add "The family would light a candle for the passed away person which would mysteriously remain lighted only going out whenever its said that the person's family has gotten over the pain of the person's death. The person has joined the afterlife which Oceanans call the Summerland."

He doesn't resists as his son hugs him whom he hugs back as darkness arrives and he comes to with eyes closed lying in bed same position as before his beach dream. He discovers after yanking pillow from his head that its daylight by the window shade glowing after opening his eyes. He sits up as the door opens showing Jiang who looks worried.

Jiang speaks verbally "Its late morning and wants to know if Your Majesty plans to stay in bed all day."

Eric shakes his head no and gets up from the bed as Jiang closes the door. He gets dressed and walks out to the table to eat and drink.

Once done is told by Jiang "People have been made aware of Niya's passing. They are kneeling outside the building along with some have left lighted candles near the entrance including flower offerings."

Eric recalls Niya having Han's Syndrome mentally asks "Jiang, what about having Han's Syndrome from Niya passing away and why I don't have it yet?"

Jiang answers "Han's Syndrome doesn't always hit after a person's mate passes away for it can hit anytime after the mate has died."

Eric frowns but gets up and feels pain hitting him all over him along with a bad headache that makes him fall to his knees. He gulps air through his mouth as the pain goes through him whom he lays on the floor curling in a ball shaking from the pain hitting him while shutting his eyes and grimacing from it. He feels a prick of a needle dart in his neck followed by sleepiness and he passes out unconscious.

Eric comes to find himself back in bed Sun Lord uniform off him and he's wearing his underwear shorts on and blankets up to his chest covering him. He feels himself still in pain along with a headache curls into a ball on his side with hands covering his face while breathing through his mouth hard eyes shut face in a grimace. His rages arrives which makes the pain get worse and he shakes from the pain hitting him hard feels himself passing out goes unconscious.

Eric comes to with pain gone while lying on his back in bed and rages gone as he is breathing through the tubes in his nose. He opens his eyes to discover the window shade is glowing dimly which the sun light disappears as a lamp abruptly turns itself on next to the bed on his side on the dresser. He eyes the window while feeling soreness running through him who he moves to stare at the ceiling then eyes move down to the dresser where Niya's boxed urn is sitting on top of it. He shuts his eyes forcing himself to sleep.

Eric has a dream of himself awake from an overhead view lying in bed with a black haired woman lying on top of him on her stomach with her back to the view. He sees himself have arms around the woman with hands bare whose cheek appears to be touching his cheek with one of her hands appearing to be webby is touching his other cheek. He stares at himself who has a peaceful happy look on his face that he sees rubs the woman's back appearing to be slimy black colored with his hands and shuts his eyes as the dream goes black.

He wakes up in bed sensing its daylight outside to see the window shade is glowing dimly which he gets up feeling himself stiffed all over and jerkily force walks to the window to the shade which he lifts up to peer outside. He sees falling white stuff he recognizes as a cold storm that abruptly stops followed by the sun coming out of the clouds. He frowns staring at the scene puts the shade back and goes to put on his uniform which he stiff walks out walking into the living room to see Jiang who looks relieved to see him but doesn't scan his mind. He goes to the dinning table chair to sit and waits as food and drink is brought to him by tray which he ravenously eats while feeling himself hungry. Once done brings the cup to his lips to take a sip testing it for water which he finds its not water gulps it down till there's nothing left puts the cup back on the tray and leans back in the chair eyes staring at his hands on his lap.

He frowns as he as he hears Jiang verbally speak "The city's natives were made aware of the Sun Lord having Han's Syndrome by the Sun Lord's failure to make a balcony appearance after the crowd got restless demanding for him."

He frowns some more as Jiang continues "The Sun Lord was out for five suns."

Eric stiffens hearing that to look at the Highlander with shock in his face to stare at Jiang who continues "Han's Syndrome can make people out of it not aware of anything around them including some part of their minds shuts down going into an unconscious catatonic state. Doctors say it's a normal reaction to the person coping with the pain when it gets too much to handle."

He stares at Jiang who pauses and he feels his mind scanned which the pain makes him grimace and he mentally asks "What about Niya having Han's Syndrome? It's from recalling being told that she had Han's Syndrome and took medicine for the medical condition."

Jiang he senses stops scanning him to his relief verbally speaks "Niya's condition wasn't very powerful or severe as Your Majesty had but the pain was at tolerable levels which medicine helped her cope with it."

He hearing that as he gets up feeling himself a little stiff but better.

He hears Jiang speak "The crowd will be visiting the balcony in hopes to seeing the Sun Lord once he has recovered from Han's Syndrome to make an appearance."

Eric nods his head and then walks out of the quarters followed by Jiang to the hallway leading to an elevator which he takes.

He hears Jiang speak "Balcony?" in a questioning tone which he nods his head and feels the elevator go down followed by it stopping at the balcony floor.

He walks out to pause in the hallway watching as a guard walks forward going on the balcony staring at the sky then stares at Jiang who verbally speaks "It's safe to go out without head covering."

Eric walks to the balcony to peer down below to see a crowd forming who don't notice him and he patiently waits as they look up then applauds seeing him but are quiet with their cheering noises. He stays till he hears the Guardian sounding its siren noises and he waves a hand then leaves the balcony to enter the elevator.

Eric hears Jiang questioningly ask "Brianna?"

Eric shakes his head in a no gesture and feels the elevator going up taking him to the hallway to his quarters which he goes inside and goes to the window to lean against it staring at the cold storm hitting the city followed by the sun disappearing covered by white clouds. He feels himself tired of standing goes to the couch to sit leaning against into it with eyes staring at the TV monitor wall with a frown on his face.

He hears Jiang verbally speak "That if Sun Lord is tired he should consider going to bed and sleep it off."

He exhales a breath and finds that he's tired and finds himself agreeing with Jiang's remark gets up from the couch to walk into his bedroom gently closing the door behind him. He eyes the bed with relief goes to the dresser to yank off his clothes and puts on his pajama pants along with leaving his gloves off his hands after putting away his clothes. He rubs a hand on his head with his clawed hand and gets into bed pulling up the blankets to his chest and shuts his eyes falling asleep. He passes out and comes to with his eyes still closed, to feel a feminine hand rubbing his forehead that soothes him while feeling his stiffness gone from him. He jerks his eyes open to stare at a female appearing to be Human with eyes looking Human black like with a form that reminds him of someone he didn't realize was Raisa herself from his dream staring at him while sitting next to his bed from her wheelchair. Eric stares at her as she removes her hand to put her hands up as he sits up holding his hands up as if guided by instinct and his palms touches hers while feeling a charge of pleasure hit him from the hands' touch. His hands stop touching her as she again leans towards him putting her arms around him in a hug as he does the same. He gently lets go of her as she does the same and he removes the blankets off of him while holding up his arms towards her as he sees she is wearing an oily black outfit of pants and long sleeve top. Eric watches as she with maneuvering from the wheelchair climbs into bed on top of him while pulling the blankets to cover them partly. He wraps his arms around her as she lies on top of him on her stomach and feels her cheek touch his cheek and her hand touching his other cheek which he gently rubs her back and then shuts his eyes falling asleep.

Eric comes to feeling confusion running through him to feel the woman is still lying on top of him but is awake from her movements of her hand rubbing his cheek.

He gently rubs her back and hears her speak in Americanian "My name is Raisa Jiang who's a descendant of the Sun Lord's guard Jiang who Merra or a Meritanian answering to the name of Kiddy is my mother."

Eric stiffens feeling shocked hearing that as Raisa continues "I originally traveled from Oceana to visit Jiang and saw the Sun Lord during him having a bout of Han's Syndrome felt a strong connection towards him. Jiang scanned my mind with I detecting him doing that.

Jiang said 'The connection was related to people who feel connected to a person before they become mates.'

Eric feels his stiffening stop as he gently pushes Raisa off of him and he gets up from the bed with her to go to the dresser yanking off his pajama pants and putting it away and gets his gloves which he puts on his hands. He notices Raisa staring at him as he is doing this and once in the buff with gloves on gestures with a hand pointing to himself and to her about her clothes while staring at her.

Eric saw Raisa gesture by jabbing to the clothes and saying "The clothes are a part of me but when you touch me you touch bare skin."  
Eric grabs the breathing device and climbs into bed on top of her while putting the device between the two pillows. He enters Raisa while feeling her legs limply in place. He feels a barrier blocking his way which he thrusts through while hearing her gasp of pain. He keeps himself still with hands touching her side eyes staring at her face showing pain in her eyes that go away. Eric moves thrusting in and out of her while feeling charges of pleasure running through him each time he enters her. He senses that she is feeling the same from her giving off moaning sounds of pleasure and seeing a pleasant expression on her face and in her eyes. He spills himself inside her and shakes from the intense charge of pleasure within him while exhaling a breath from the charge hitting him as he senses Raisa has felt the same feeling by her shutting her eyes and raising her head up moaning very loudly. He gently lowers himself still inside her to put hands underneath her back and kisses her on the neck several kisses. Eric while feeling her hands that were on his shoulders in a grip move tracing them going to his hair running her fingers through them pushing his head towards her as he is kissing her neck. He trails kisses from her neck to her cheek as she lowers her head with her eyes still closed. He trails kisses to her mouth and ravages the mouth with his mouth kissing her while feeling her hands on his head gently rubbing. He breaks off the kiss to adjust his hands back to her sides raising he up a bit till he's staring at her face which he sees looks familiar to him.

Eric thinks to himself "It's that her face reminds me of Emperor Palin in a feminine form."

He continues to stare at her as she opens her eyes to stare at him back which she speaks in Americanian "My mother insisted to me to learn several languages including one called hand language when I was growing up in Oceana as a Trigan in an Orca form. Sigh language is a language that is popular among the Oceanans who use that to communicate with the Trigans peering through the windows via Orca forms. The sign language is strictly enforced for all children of any race going to school to learn along with learning Americanian in schools."

Eric feels like he doesn't want to listen anymore pulls out of Raisa lies on his side back facing her and falls asleep and wakes up in the morning with her lying on her side facing him appearing to be asleep. He gets up and gets dressed in his Sun Lord uniform and walks out of the bedroom to the living room to eat breakfast.

Jiang there spoke "I'm wondering how's the Mistress is and if Your Majesty doesn't mind me going into the bedroom to wake her up."

Eric gestures with a finger pointing to the door and with his head moving towards it and continue eating as Jiang leaves him.

He ignores Jiang running out saying "Raisa is having a baby and needs to go to the hospital for it!"

Eric finishes eating is told "I order Sun Lord to carry Raisa to the car!"

He obeys feeling disgusted having to carry her wearing an oily clothes despite feeling bare skin which he takes her to a car and is ordered inside the car. Car drives and flies him and Raisa to the hospital where the nurses take her away and he is taken to a room to sit and wait while feeling a little annoyed with himself. He shuts his eyes and falls asleep passing out.

Eric is waken by Jiang telling "We'll take you to a room where the Mistress is with the baby a boy that is another version of Sun Lord himself was already taken out of her."

He frowns but follows Jiang and doctor to a room to see Raisa lying in bed with an oxygen mask on her face and there's a crib next to her. He peers into to see a baby with a mop of black hair and golden eyes like his looking human like and having mittens covering the hands which he assumes is clawed like his.

Eric frowns staring at the baby thinking "I'm wondering what to name my son."

Eric feels himself tired gets onto the bed nearby Raisa's bed and falls asleep passing out unconscious.

Eric wakes up by Jiang telling him "The Mistress has wakened up and the doctor says she can go home."

He gets up from the bed to see Raisa isn't in bed but spies a door in the room slam shut which he assumes is the bathroom and peers at his son in the crib. Eric lifts out and cradles to himself feeling some faint connection towards his son as in lovely dove status despite a faint twinge status of pain hitting him.

Eric mentally thought to himself "I decide to name him Niyan after Niya for I feel like keeping her memory alive."

He waits holding his son as Raisa comes out of the bathroom in her familiar clothes of oily black including sitting in her wheelchair wheeling herself to him he feels annoyed to see her.

Eric thinks to himself "Only Niya is my mate and not this Raisa in front of me."

"I was via memory suffering from the pain of losing Niya hence I thinking this rude comment." says Eric after noticing Raisa in the room sitting in her wheelchair giving him an all black eyed glare of anger.

Eric continued the story:

Eric and Raisa with Jiang go to the car and it takes them to the headquarters where he refuses her requests to hold Niyan carries him to his quarters and sits on the couch holding his son with her next to him.

He gets annoyed by her speaking "I'm begging to hold my son Eric Junior."

She keeps calling him Eric Junior thrusts the child to her and signs with her looking at him "I want to call the child Niyan and not Eric Junior. I already had a son with my previous mate with that name that passed away awhile back before my previous mate wound up sick with a medical condition that killed her."

He glares at Raisa as she nods her head and speaks "The name is Niyan."

Eric adds "I heard her speaking sarcasm when she spoke that wording to the word Niyan. Sorry Raisa."

Raisa he eyed appeared to have stopped flaring all black eyes of the Master as granted to her by the All Seeing One God she told him was the source of her abilities.

Then he sits leaning back on the couch with arms folded to glare at the wall feeling a little annoyed with Raisa and her behavior. Night time arrives and Raisa he watches goes into the other bedroom with Niyan and comes out without the baby. Eric gets up going to his bedroom and slams the door in her face and goes to his dresser as the door behind him opens.

Followed by her speaking "Your rude and should know better than to do that."

Eric ignores her to change into his pajama pants and gloves on. He goes to a wall and leans against it with arms folded as he glares at the floor and feels like he should get rid of Raisa for she's useless to him.

"Don't blame me for thinking that thought!" Eric adds via the storytale.

Raisa he heard gave up a sound of disgust in response who spoke "Just tell more of the story anyway."

Eric obeyed he continues to keep his position while hearing the bathroom door open and listens for her movements hearing her slam the dresser drawer and hears the bed spring move as she gets into bed followed by the lamp clicking off.

He gets a little furious when she speaks using some voice tone that annoys him "I'm ordering you to get to bed and sleep for you needs the rest."

Eric gets angry storms to the bed and gets into it then rolls over to lie on top of Raisa who protests "I can't mate for awhile or have another baby till the doctors say so."

Eric gags her on the throat with one hand then appeared to make himself choking her to death and feels a prick of pain in his neck that makes him sleepy and he rolls over to collapse on his back shutting his eyes going unconscious.

Eric spoke "That was when I was poisoned wasn't it?"

He glared at Raisa with annoyance running through him as she spoke "Nope you were poisoned after Niya's death someone taking advantage of your Han's Symdrome's status to poison you to death."

Eric gave up roars instead as he heard whining sounds indicated a gonoid or animal entering the room including hearing clicking noises as he roared his angry hissy fit off. He frowned as he found an object placed into his hand he found attached to a gonoid he recognized was a dog he saw from memory was used by the guards of the prisons he was contained in.

Eric felt distaste with the dog as Raisa was heard "That dog is trained to help you get around while blind from the rage episodes and help alert you to them whenever they hit you."

Eric groaned loudly after his roaring quit find Raisa adding "His name is Delancy a cloned copy of the Delancys that's trained to help various cloned Erics with their roaring hissy fits of their rage episodes. So continue with your story anyway."

Eric groaned and found a headache hitting his head involving his mind scanned to recall as if compelled the actually commands uses for Delancy's job to help him. He rubbed a gloved hand onto his forehead and heard a throat clearing noise from the Recorder of memories. He eyed the Recorder of memories was a male Human with facial hair in a circle around on his face that was brown colored with short blonde hair with Human black eyes that was staring at him intensively.

Eric recalled Raisa telling him at a meeting "This is Brandis the Record Keeper as he's dubbed by various cloned status to record memories he hears and sees via his own senses into his body. He's sort of like a living Recorder of memories."

Groaning Eric obeyed to speak further of the story he wakes up to discover himself in a squat position facing a wall a few meters away with chain manacles on his wrists and gloves still on his hands along with his pajama pants still on his form. He stands up and feels instant pain on his back that feels familiar that he recognizes that his back is being whipped. His back gets whipped over and over which he reacts in pain from it while feeling a headache hitting him that he recognizes that he is being mind scanned and grimaces from the pains on his back and head. He starts mentally screaming a word he doesn't recognize or is aware of it till the whipping stops. Raisa wheels her wheelchair to be in front of him which he fists his hand to glare at her with anger within him.

He glares at her as she speaks "I'm sorry."

Raisa speaks her comment while rubbing his face with her hands as he squats to her height that makes him shut his eyes and he feels her hands are soothing him to stop being angry. He feels himself very sad bursts into tears crying while shaking his form as his knees become weak sags further into the chained status. Eric feels Raisa wrap her arms around him holding him up as he loses it to his crying. He cries hard till the tears stop and finds he freed from the manacles to collapse onto the ground to kneeling position as Raisa removes her arms and puts her hands on his head fingers running through his hair. He opens his eyes to stare at her and puts hands on her thighs then leans his head on her lap while still shaking from the sadness hitting him and tightens his hold around her struggling to overcome the sadness feeling. Eric feels himself sleepy allows himself to sleep with arms around Raisa and passes out to come to with himself lying in bed and the window shade is glowing dim light that is getting brighter. He feels one of his hands is gripped and rolls over to his right to stare at Raisa lying on her left side facing him while appearing to be asleep with one of her hands gripping his right gloved hand. He stares at her and feels sick with himself of rejecting her when he should be accepting her. He reaches with a free hand towards her face to rub her cheek and senses she is waking up from that from her giving off an mm sound. He stares at her as she wakes up to stare at him with a worried expression in her eyes. He exhales a breath to stare at her as her other hand touches him on the cheek which he feels soothed by the feeling pushes his face into her hand.

Eric hears the bedroom door open and hears Jiang speak "I'm asking if Your Majesties are planning to stay in bed all day?"

Eric looks at Jiang and shakes his head no then Jiang closes the door and he removes himself from the bed to get dressed into his Sun Lord uniform as Raisa getting up to put herself into her wheelchair which he feels a little weird about that but shrugs off the feeling. He walks out of the bedroom leaving the door open and goes to the table to eat while Raisa sits next to him and he watches her eating as she does the same. He once done eating leans back in the chair to stare at Raisa who finishes eating wheels from the table going into the other bedroom and returns carrying Niyan in her arms.

He hears Jiang speak "The Sun Lord should make a balcony visit just to assure the crowd that he's alright and their aware of the Mistress and his son Eric Junior with her."

Eric gets up ignoring Jiang's use of Eric Junior as his son's name and leaves the quarters with Raisa and Jiang following. He goes to the elevator that takes him to the balcony floor. Once there given the ok by a guard goes to the balcony to peer down below at the crowd while leaning his arms on the balcony railing as the crowd seeing him cheer their cries which makes him a little bit better. He senses Raisa next to him out of her wheelchair leaning against the balcony's railing for her to be seen and doesn't react to her putting her hand on his hand gripping it. Eric looks at her and removes his hand from her hand to put an arm around her middle on her back and leans his head against her head while putting his other hand on Eric Junior he figured he'll refer his son who appears to be peacefully sleeping despite the noises as he hears the crowd cheer a little louder. He feels a bit better from holding Raisa and his son in his arms to shut his eyes and feels himself relaxed enough to smile a small smile.

Eric paused from telling the tale appearing to be lost in thought till he heard "So what do you have to say in response to Raisa annoyed with you?"

He heard the voice sounded of Tank a male voice to his annoyance as the Meritanian's brother Walls was heard snickering in response to another joke. He didn't comment a response to the Tank's question instead heard Walls snickering in his mind.

Eric sighed as Raisa held their daughter Bella in her arms. Their daughter was still a baby but she was bit old enough to start crawling. They sat gathered around a campfire with the others of Eric's family tribe, the Zeskayas. They were listening to Eric's Fatherly representative Leader narrate the familiar story about the High Council and the tribe making an agreement with them regardless of who's who in Terrania. He eyed Bella who squirmed being held in her mother's arms to shift form into a wolf cub. He saw Bella get released by her Mother to go towards him seated next to his mate as he sighed again. He continued to hear his Father talk on towards others gathered around the campfire. His Father he heard appeared to be ignoring Bella's restlessness. She got onto his lap and shifted form into a Human with golden eyes indicating of her ability of a vampire to feed on blood despite ability to change into a wolf. He recalled naming his daughter Bella after someone named Bella of that name in Terrania. It was due to a fondness towards her Grandmother Niya also known as Bella despite she paired to a vampire and being Edenia's ambassadiorial representative. He continued to listen to his Father kept up his talk despite having his hair fully white. He listened to the full story as always. He heard before spoken by his Father this time as leader of the Zeskayas. Eric felt Bella sit on his lap which he wrapped an arm around her baby like form despite ability to change into a wolf cub for her mode of transportation. He rocked Bella gently as he could. He wound up sensing that she wanted to be rocked asleep by her telepathically giving him a snoring sound he heard in his mind. He continued to rock Bella asleep who yawned golden eyes blinking open and closed. He sensed her conk out by eyes shutting and form remaining still but breathing sensed. He sighed of relief hearing nothing from Bella telepathically. That suggested that she had conked out for awhile after nights of not wanting to sleep. She was always telepathically indicating towards him every time of wanting to travel in Oceana all over the place. Her talk was focused onto as a wolf sniffing out lots of smells and seeing lots to see that the Oceana's home territory held. He continued to hold his daughter as she remained asleep. He seeing Raisa looking at him with a hint of smile on her face he loved her giving him. He smiled at her back as his Father ended the talk to feel Raisa wrap arms around him and their daughter Bella. He felt her hug indicated that she loved him by her arms' grip around him. He sighed again to lean his head against Raisa as she did the same. He saw her eyeing their daughter Bella in his arms. Eric sensed that Raisa was relieved that their daughter was finally sleeping. It was after nights of staying up late with wants to travel in the Oceana's underwater territory as a wolf. Eric sighed again feeling himself relieved that Bella was finally sleeping as the moon shined over head. He kept his hold on Bella tightly as Raisa kept her arms around him in a hug he didn't protest to that.

Epilogue:

Eric gave up roaring hissing fits as dubbed by the Meritanians. Mostly Eric roaring hissing sounds and appeared to be tired according to Brandis eyeing him.

Raisa was heard speaking "Delancy heel Eric and hand him the leash."

This followed by the gonoid service dog in response going to Eric and getting the leash into his hand. Eric was seen getting up as a result and disappearing into a light show.

Brandis doesn't have anything else to record here so end tale of Eric Zesky original of cloned statuses.
