

E'STEEM: THE WITCHES OF EASTLAND

Copyright © 20l6 Shawn James

This eBook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This eBook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

Published by SJS DIRECT, Bronx, NY, 10456
Chapter 1

She thinks she's so much. Wait till we show her.

I rush through the halls of the Eastland dorms with Blair's designer lipstick in my pocket and a smile on my face. Now that I've got one of her most prized possessions we can finally cast a spell on her that'll make her wish she was never born.

I'm giddy with anticipation as I approach dorm room 316 and rapp my knuckles on the door once, twice, then three times. On hearing the secret code my fellow witch Willow cracks the door open and gives me an anxious look. "Did you get it Raven?"

"Yeah, I got it." I say. "You guys ready?"

"Ready as we'll ever be."

I slip through crack in the door Willow made and rush into our dorm room. Candlelight illuminates the room from the five points of the pentagram we sketched out in the middle of the floor this morning. After I get Blair's lipstick out of my blazer pocket and hand it to my fellow witch Tempest she places it in the center of the star. Once we take each other hands we begin chanting the bad luck spell we found online.

"Khitis Inyerah Dualeh Aekx Blair Warner"

For a moment, a blue glow illuminates the tube of lipstick. And then it stops. Crap, the spell didn't work.

"What did we do wrong?" Tempest asks?

"It was supposed to turn green." I sigh.

"Well, we did everything we were supposed to." Willow snarls grabbing her iPad off the bed. "We got the item of the intended and we chanted the spell-"

I look down at Willow's iPad and figure out what the problem is. "Guys, our mystic energy isn't strong enough to cast this kind of spell."

"Not strong enough?" Willow snarls. "We're one of the strongest Covens at this academy!"

"Er...We're the only Coven at this academy." I say. And in order for magic to truly work we need to focus a lot more mystic energy."

"How do we do that?"

I wish I had an answer for them. "I don't know. It's not like we can go to one of our teachers for help on this-"

"Maybe we can." Tempest says.

"How?"

Tempest hurries over to my desktop and clicks on an e-mail I got from the Headmistress this morning. "Guess who's coming to Eastland."

"John Haynes? Big deal-"

"Yeah, it's a big deal. She says heading over to the Dark Coven YouTube Channel. As the fight between a tall voluptuous almond colored woman in a tattered red dress and a she demon plays in the browser, I watch in awe as she casts a spell that turns the air around her into a solid dome. When the demon fires a blast of blue hellfire at it, it sucks all the air out of the dome and she falls unconscious. "You know who always comes with him?"

"That's E'steem!" Willow barks. "The Sorceress everyone talks about on the Gremoram Acknoram boards!"

"...And she'll be here tomorrow with Mr. Haynes." Tempest says.

...And with my job as ace reporter I'll be able to interview them tomorrow afternoon for the school paper. And maybe she'll give me a scoop on a magic spell or two.
Chapter 2

John gets the door for me as we enter Garrett Hall. As the husky toast colored man in the tailored business suit walks down the hall with me, I catch the anxious look on his face. Knowing him, he's probably re-hashing a bunch of old childhood memories about his traumatic high school experiences. I better see about calming him down before he makes his speech to the girls here at the Eastland Academy.

"You okay John?" I inquire.

"As good as I'll ever be Ms. Katious." John sighs. "I can't believe I let Carol talk me into this-"

The formal greeting tells me how tense he really is. "I can't believe you're still having anxieties about this. You graduated high school over ten years ago-"

"You have no idea how traumatizing those four years were for me."

"Was it really that bad for you?

John flashes me a smile. "You know how God Katious dropped a building on me last month?"

"Yeah?"

"I'd rather have the skyscraper dropped on me again."

It can't be as bad as he says it is. From what I see in all the old movies people always seem to regard their high school experience very positively. "I don't know, I think going to high school would be fun-"

"That's what you say until you're there."

"I think I could handle it-"

"In between the cliques, the catty chicks, and the horny teenage boys you'd be planning to burn the place down by the end of the first period."

I thought he'd know me better than that. "I wouldn't burn it down after the first period." I jab. "I'd at least wait until lunch was over."

"Only you would wait until after you had your fish sticks to participate in mayhem." John retorts.

If he's cracking jokes he must feel better about being here. "Hey, you can't get a good fire going on an empty stomach."

"It'd be the best way to get out of gym class." John chuckles. "If I only knew you back in high school..."

I'd bring out the absolute worst in him. "Our parents would probably forbid us from seeing each other."

"We'd probably be getting into so much trouble it wouldn't be funny."

But we'd have so much fun. The smile on John's face tells me his anxieties have melted away as we approach the Headmistress' office. "This place would probably a regular stop for us on our high school journeys if we were together back then." I tease.

As we stroll into the Headmistress' office the secretary gives us an indifferent look. I guess with all the parents who pay five figures for tuition here we're no different from any other well-dressed couple. "How may I help you sir?" She asks as we approach her desk.

"John Haynes and E'steem Katious here to meet with Headmistress Rowan." John tells her.

The secretary glances over at the schedule at her computer screen. "...Ah, yes Mr. Haynes. The Headmistress has been expecting you. Just give me one moment."

The secretary presses a button on the intercom to announce our arrival. In few moments the tall mahogany door behind her desk opens and an attractive blonde woman in a tailored navy Italian business suit steps out of her office. She's followed behind by a chalk colored brunette teenage girl wearing dark makeup and the official Eastland Uniform. With the formal way everyone around here acts, I didn't think the Headmistress would be comfortable with one of her model students Gothing up her appearance.

"John," Headmistress Rowan greets extending her hand. "Good to see you. It's an honor to have you here at Eastland."

"I'm glad to be here." John says shaking it. "Are your Junior Achievers ready to help me take care of business?"

"We've got two periods before the class starts. So I wanted to give you a tour of our facilities and brief you on our Junior Achievers program."

John flashes her a smile. "Are they all that bad?"

The look on the headmistress' face tells a story she can't say with words. "Not all of them." She replies. "This is Raven, our reporter for the school paper."

"Nice to meet you Raven." John says shaking her hand.

"Nice to meet you Mr. Haynes. I've got a few questions for you after you finish your briefing with our headmistress."

"Great." John replies. "I'll be able to answer any questions you have for me."

John gestures and I step forward. "This is E'steem my assistant. If you have any questions I can't answer them she'll be able to answer them."

I'm greeted with friendly smiles as I shake their hands. After my introduction I lean over and whisper in John's ear. "Great save."

"I'd never forget my helpmeet." John whispers back.

I smile on hearing John's statement about me as he catches the headmistress' blue eyes. "Well, if all the formal introductions are over can we begin the tour?" She asks.

"Lead the way." John tells her.
Chapter 3

After all the introductions are finished, Headmistress Rowan leads us all out of her office. While we all head down the hall and she tells Mr. Haynes more about our school, I look over at his assistant. The tall attractive voluptuous almond colored woman looks like a fashion model wearing a slinky red wrap dress and black high heeled designer boots. I never thought she'd be this beautiful in real life. But she looks prettier than she does in her YouTube Videos.

E'steem realizes how engaged Mr. Haynes is in the conversation with our headmistress and decides to make small talk with me. She brushes her long silken black hair out of her face and smiles at me. "So how long have you been at Eastland Raven?" E'steem asks.

I can't believe E'steem is talking to me! "Er...Since I was eleven. So it's been about five years."

"So you've only got about a year to go before you graduate."

One more year before I'm out of this dump. "Yeah."

"So have you thought about what college you want to go to?"

"I'm thinking about Columbia or NYU. The journalism programs there are pretty good."

"So you want to keep reporting the news?"

"Yeah. I want to keep getting the scoop on all the good stories."

"I think you're gonna get a good one from us."

I think so too. As the Headmistress walks us into the empty cafeteria the aroma of freshly baked fish sticks fill the air. I take E'steem over near some tables in the corner to see if she'll give me the scoop on some magic tips. "Can I get a minute? I've got a few questions for you."

"About working with Mr. Haynes?"

"About you." I say. "I heard about you on the Gremoram Acknoram Boards."

E'steem puts her hands on her hips and gives me a look. "So you know about my work outside of the office."

"Yeah, I've seen you doing magic on YouTube-"

E'steem's smile changes into a concerned look. "I don't think your headmistress is going to want you writing about that-"

"Well...I wasn't going to write about you. You see, I'm a witch. And I just wanted to learn how to focus my mystic energy for a spell I want to cast-"

E'steem grimaces on hearing about my plans. "You don't want to mess with that stuff. It'll corrupt your soul-"

"It hasn't corrupted yours-"

"Mine is finally starting to heal now that I've given my life to Christ."

"So that's a no on giving me some magic pointers?"

E'steem gives me looks into my eyes and gives me an earnest look. "If I were you I'd just stick to Algebra."

"Algebra-"

"I think I'm gonna go find out what's for lunch today."

E'steem looks over at Mr. Haynes, smiles, and rushes over to him and the Headmistress. I can't believe her! She has all that magic power and she won't teach me one spell! That bitch!

I really wish I could cast spells. Then I'd wipe that goofy smile off her face.
Chapter 4

I watch as Raven pouts about having being denied a chance to lean more about Magic from E'steem. She may not be happy about being told no, but I'm downright giddy about her refusal to help the girl in her studies of the occult. Now I'll be able to exploit E'steem's Achilles heel.

As headmistress Rowan leads the troupe out of the cafeteria I follow behind the brooding girl. While I'm quite eager to make my proposal to the girl right now it would be prudent for me to be patient. The perfect time to introduce myself to her will be at the end of the school day.
Chapter 5

John and I march down the stairs of Garrett Hall after saying goodbye to Headmistress Rowan. I'd have to say our meeting with the Junior Achievers was pretty productive. Once John shook off his anxieties he was able to get down to business in class. And by the time he was finished all the kids had a good idea of what Morris Phillips' business is all about.

I'm just hoping that Raven writes it up that way. After I told her I wouldn't help her with her magic spell she got all quiet and pouty. While she did manage to keep things professional with John and the headmistress during her interview for the school paper, I could feel the tension from her while she was sitting across from me in the office. I'm just hoping I dissuaded her from playing with magic. She's just too young to understand how dangerous it is.

Just as we reach the bottom of the stairs, our black company Escalade drives up to the curb to pick us up. After we ease into the soft leather backseat and the SUV pulls off into Chelsea's traffic, I take John's hand and give him a comforting smile. "...See that wasn't that bad." I quip.

"Just like pulling off a band-aid." John sighs.

"Well, you got through it. And since you did, I think we'll stop for some Gelato at Luigi's."

John lights up thinking about one of his favorite desserts. "Guess I deserve a treat after all I went through today." John continues. "Raven could give Barbara Walters a run for her money-"

I'm thinking her lobbing the hardballs was her way of taking out her frustrations at me on him. "She might have been mad at me."

John cocks an eyebrow. "...And why would she be mad at you?"

"I kind of told her I wouldn't help her cast a spell on someone."

"So she knows about..."

"Unfortunately, my online reputation precedes me."

"I'm hoping it doesn't impede our business. We've got four more Junior Achievers meetings this month."

"I don't think it will. From the way she was talking she seems like she doesn't know much about magic."

"But what she does know could cause us trouble-"

"I doubt it. The spells they have online and in most of today's magic books aren't worth the paper they're printed on."

"So they're harmless?"

The only harm that'd be done by today's spellbooks is to a person's wallet from spending money on them. "Most of today's so-called spells have been misinterpreted, mistranslated, and so badly rewritten by amateurs to the point that they'd never work. All anyone would be doing is wasting their money and their time."

"Still if she could find you she could find some other sorcerer-"

"There are only three people on earth who know magic well enough to make it work correctly. And I doubt she has the phone numbers the other two in New Avalon to contact them."

"I'm hoping it stays that way."

"With me studying The Bible these days I know I'm definitely not teaching anyone magic."

"Is there a danger to teaching new mages these days?"

There was a danger back then. A mortal having that kind of power today could be a danger to others and even themselves. I wouldn't want to be responsible for the loss of innocent lives caused by a mage I mentored.

"Pretty much. Magic can corrupt your soul if you don't know what you're doing."

"I thought that there was white magic and black magic-"

"There is. But what makes all magic dangerous is how you use it. In the wrong hands it can be used to harm innocent people."

"Or it can be used to make someone rich."

"If they were greedy. The biggest problem with magic is that some people get dependent on it."

"Sort of like how you depend on your Raimentus spell-"

I'd like to think that little spell saves us both from a lot of embarrassment. "If it wasn't for the Raimentus spell fixing my clothes you'd be dealing with 50% more bad press from 100% more wardrobe malfunctions."

"I know. But you tend to depend on it a lot."

Better for me to use the Raimentus spell than come back to the tower topless after a fight. "I only rely on that spell due to all the crazies I run into on my journeys in this wonderful city." I continue. "But some people get addicted to the power they think gives them."

John smiles at me. "Are you talking from personal experience?"

I may be a somewhat vain as a demon, but I did my best to be a humble sorceress. "Let's just say I had to take a few sorcerers' egos down a peg during the fire and brimstone days."

"Are you sure yours wasn't inflated a bit in the process?"

"Just a smidge when I beat them." I retort. "But as bad as I was I'd never go as far as teaching a child Raven's age magic."

The curious look on John's face surprises me. "So you're telling me that you had a moral code when you were a bad girl?"

"Yeah, even with the horns and the fangs there were lines even I wouldn't cross."

"And here I was thinking you were the baddest girl in the Legion."

Yeah, I was bad back then but I wasn't as evil as some of the other demons. "I'll admit I've done my fair share of sinning. But there were some things that I couldn't live with myself doing when I roamed the realms."

"Like..."

"I'd never do anything to willfully corrupt a child."

"Even if they wanted the power like yours."

They may want the power, but as an adult I understood I had to be responsible for keeping them safe from predators like demons and even themselves. "An adult knows whether or not if they want to be good or evil." I continue. "But a child can't understand the decisions they're making about their future or the consequences of them. It'd be wrong for me to take advantage of them."

"I thought taking advantage of people was business as usual in the Legion-"

Most of the other demons may kill, steal, and destroy wantonly when they roam to and fro on this earth, but I used to be strategically selective about who I chose to let bad things happen to. "It wasn't my business." I continue. "All the mortal souls I took were well over the age of consent."

"Nice to know you had a semblance of a conscience in the bad old days."

It's only grown bigger in the last year or so. I love having a moral compass again. "Only a coward goes after children."

"And you have the courage to do the right thing."

I clasp John's hand tight and smile as I gaze into his eyes. "Ever since I was little I've always wanted to be the good girl." I say. "And now that I'm free to be myself, I'm going keep doing the right thing."
Chapter 6

I storm down the hall of the dorms still pissed about being slighted by E'steem. Stick to algebra. I'd love to stick it to her by putting a spell on her that shows her how well versed in magic I actually am.

But I don't have the mystic energy necessary to take down the ego of Ms. Sorceress Supreme. She'd wipe the floor with me if I got in a magic duel with her. But I'd do anything to wipe that goofy grin off her face. Anything.

I count to ten and take deep breaths as I approach the door of my door of my dorm room. When I open the door Willow and Tempest hop off their beds smiling at me in anticipation of hearing the good news. "So is E'steem gonna help us?" Tempest asks.

"She told me to stick to algebra." I sigh.

"Algebra?" Willow pouts. "Doesn't she know how powerful a Coven we are?"

"She doesn't care." I snarl. "After she told me no, she just blew me off and went back to talking to her boss and Miss Rowan like it was nothing."

"She sounds just like Blair." Willow says.

"She is just like Blair." I wish could show her how powerful a witch I am-"

"There is a way for you to show E'steem how powerful you are." A deep baritone voice says.

I'm not the only one who hears the voice; Willow and Tempest look around for who spoke to us. We soon find out who it is; in a few moments a flash of light explodes in our eyes. When it clears a tall caramel colored man in a tailored red suit, black shirt, and Italian leather shoes greets us with a smile. Whoever this is he must have incredible magic skills to pull off an entrance like that. "Who are you?"

"Damien Lucerne." The man says. "I was listening to your plight and I wanted to offer you my services."

"So you want to teach us magic spells?" Tempest asks.

"Even better than that. I'd like to take you girls on as my apprentices."

Apprentice. That's even better than getting magic tips from E'steem. "What do we have to do?" I ask.

"Simply prove to me you're ready for the responsibilities of wielding such great power." Mr. Lucerne replies. "If you can best E'steem in magical combat I'll give you her power."

Give us her power? I didn't think there was anyone more powerful than a Sorcerer Supreme. "You can do that?" I ask. "I thought once you learned spells they were a part of you."

Lucerne smiles at us. "Spells are a part of you. But you can't use them unless you have mystic energy to wield them."

"So we can't get mystic energy on our own?"

"No, the ability to tap mystic energy must be granted to you by a Sorcerer of First Magic."

"So you're more powerful than E'steem?"

"I'm the sorcerer who granted E'steem her magical abilities." Lucerne says. "And the power is mine to give to you and to take away from her."

I smile when I hear that. I'd love to see the look on her face when I took her power away from her. "So do we have to study or something?"

Mr. Lucerne gestures and a big gold trimmed leather bound book appears in his hand. "I want you to study this spell and cast it on E'steem tonight." He says handing us the book. "If you recite it properly I'll be in touch tomorrow morning."

I flip through the pages. The only page with print on it is in the middle. "It's blank except this page."

"The book will open itself to you as you learn more spells." Mr. Lucerne replies. "If you recite the spell correctly the book will glow with a yellow light. That'll tell me you've done your homework."

"And you'll give us the ability to use mystic energy if we do our homework?"

"You'll have all the mystic energy your heart desires." Lucerne says disappearing into a flash of light.
Chapter 7

The time on my Rolex watch reads 4:43 when the elevator comes to a stop and opens in the Penthouse. The good thing about working with the Junior Achievers is that John and I will actually have some days where our workday ends early. Now if I can persuade my handsome boyfriend to actually take an evening off for once maybe we can have some fun.

John strolls over to the sofa while I unzip my tall boots, slip them off and follow behind him with them in hand. When he falls into the cushions of the sofa I smile. "I thought you'd be on your way in the den to do some homework." I say flopping into the cushion next to him.

"Since I've had a hard day of teaching, I think I'll take the night off." John says grabbing the remote for the TV."

I have to wonder if he's turning over a new leaf. This is the second time in a week where he's actually taken an actual break. "Getting tired of overachieving-"

"Just taking some time to spend with the lady I love so much."

I definitely don't have a problem with that. "So you wanna make out like a pair of teen-agers?"

John flashes me a smile that tells me he'd be eager to engage in that old adolescent pastime. "Now you sound like the girls I went to school with."

And here I was thinking he was a loner all those years ago. "Do you think I would have been one of your suitors when you were younger?"

"I don't think I'd be in your league with you being the fairest woman in Egypt-"

I'd like to think we'd have something in common. "Don't sell yourself short." I say brushing my hair back. "I definitely think you'd be my type back then."

"Like you'd be into a comic book nerd like me-"

"Well, with all the studying of ancient texts and Papyri I was quite the nerd myself."

John looks me up and down. "You were a nerd?"

Has he heard me speak? I use almost as many fifty-cent words as he does. "I didn't become Sorceress Supreme by learning to put kohl on my eyes from Queen Isis."

"So you wouldn't have had a problem with going to the comic book store back then?"

It'd probably be as fun as our trips there on Wednesdays. "I think we could have made a date around it."

"Now I know I would have liked you back then."

"I think I would have enjoyed studying math and science instead of magic."

John gives me a quizzed look. "What, you don't like being a sorceress?"

If I only knew where that road was taking me in Ancient Egypt I'd have gone in a different direction. "When I was little I didn't have any choice of whether or not I wanted practice magic and sorcery."

"Seth chose for you."

"Everyone thought I was special because he deemed me a Child of the Gods." I continue. "So I got fastracked to a life of reading ancient texts and papyri instead of being able to decide what I wanted to do."

"So you didn't want to practice magic?"

I was actually more interested in science than sorcery when I was little. "Osiris and the Elders were preparing me for a role as an intermediary between themselves and the people. And I didn't want to disappoint them."

"Is that why you won't teach a child magic?"

There were times back then I wish I could've just been a regular girl like everyone else. "I never got the chance to choose what I wanted to do with my life back in Egypt. And I wouldn't want to be responsible for forcing another child into a series of choices that ruined their lives."

"You're doing unto others what you wanted to be done unto you?"

What I feel they'd want done to them. "When you're young you don't know how the decisions you make today can effect tomorrow."

"Yeah, sometimes you can make a decision you'll regret."

"And it'll haunt you for the rest of your life." I say. "I couldn't live with myself if I sent a child down the same road I went down."

"Would you feel comfortable taking a child down the road you're on now?"

"If that's what they chose." I say wrapping my arms around him. "But I'd rather take a trip down lover's lane right about now."

The baffled look on John's face makes me chuckle. "Lover's Lane?" he inquires.

"Isn't that the place all the kids go to make out in the old teen movies?"

John draws his body closer to mine and smiles as he gazes into my eyes. "I think I can show you where that is." He tells me before he leans in for a kiss.
Chapter 8

The clock on my night table reads 11:45 when I hear the footsteps of the floor monitor trodding down the hall on their last check for inspection. When I hear the door close at the end of the hall I slide out of bed and grab my iPad and the book Mr. Lucerne gave me. "Psst...Tempest, Willow, you up?" I whisper.

I hear the girls stirring about under the sheets in the darkness. "...Yeah, Raven?" Willow grumbles.

"Time to do our homework." I whisper.

"It's almost midnight." Tempest yawns. Can't our homework wait until tomorrow?"

I'm not missing out on my chance to be an apprentice to a Sorcerer. An opportunity at getting power like this is once in a lifetime. "Mr. Lucerne wants us to cast this spell tonight."

"Only you would want to be an overachiever in the mystic arts." Willow says easing out of bed.

"If we make the grade we'll be able to get mystic energy. Then we can really make E'steem pay."

"E'steem? I thought we were going after Blair-"

Change of plans. That stuck up old hag needs to be taught a lesson. "I'm not gonna let her get away with what she did to me-"

"Rave, you're taking this kind of personal-" Tempest says.

"It's not personal." I snarl. "I just get tired of people disrespecting me. Don't you two get tired of being stepped on by people like Blair and E'steem?"

"Yeah, but you're really racking up an enemies list-"

There are some people who deserve to suffer. "If they won't give us respect, then I'll take it from them. Are you in?"

The girls give me nervous looks. "We did take an oath to be there for each other." Willow says. "And the Coven is supposed to be stronger than family."

My best friends jump out of bed and join me in the middle of the Pentagram. I tap the screen of my iPad and it illuminates the darkened room. I can feel the anticipation building inside the room when I turn to the page in the book Mr. Lucerne gave me. I take Raven and Tempest's hands and we start chanting the spell.

"LOMECH TRANSFORMEDUS E'STEEM DEMONICUS ALAMEH MORINGUS!"

In a few moments the book rises off the carpet and begins to glow. I think we did our homework right.

I'm given curious looks by Tempest and Willow when the book starts to descend into my hands. "What do we do now?"

I smile at my fellow witches. "Now we wait for Mr. Lucerne to get in touch with us."
Chapter 9

I'm in the middle of a brandy nightcap when a copy of the Tome I gave Raven rises off my desk and begins to glow. It looks like my little apprentices have finally done their homework.

I gesture and the book falls back on top of my desk. I'll pay a visit to my new charges tomorrow morning. Around that time E'steem should be waking up to a wonderful little surprise.
Chapter 10

Six A.M.

Time to check the schedule.

I grab my iPhone off the night table, spring out of bed and dart into the bathroom. After I hit the calendar app on the touchscreen I yawn and get a look at myself in the mirror.

Good morning sexy.

Okay...Someone needs to lay off the double chocolate brownies before bed. When I see the reflection of a she-demon with reptile eyes, fangs, and long black horns shooting out of her forehead I'm surprised. Looks like I'm going to need to fix my face before I get in the shower.

Usually I don't transform into demon form unconsciously. But maybe I was feeling a little devilish in a dream. It's nothing I can't fix. I look in the mirror and start thinking of my human face. When it doesn't change I grimace. Maybe my subconscious is working a little overtime.

I concentrate a little harder imagining my human face. No change. Maybe if I close my eyes and click my heels three times and say there's no face like mine I'll change back.

There's no face like mine.

There's no face like mine.

There's no face like mine.

When I open my eyes and look in the mirror and see the reptile eyed monster still staring at me I get nervous. What's keeping me this way?

Maybe I can use the magic spell I use to make disguises to reverse this. I stare at my face and chant a short spell in the hopes it changes me back. "Visageus Changeus!" My yellow reptile eyes grow wide when they don't turn back into brown ones.

I look down at my iPhone on the bathroom counter and start to get nervous. We've got a whole bunch of appointments are on the schedule today. But I can't help John do his work looking like this.

I rush out of the bathroom through the bedroom suite and down the hall into the den. When John hears my footsteps he turns away from the news on TV and catches the worried expression on my face. "What's wrong E'steem?"

"I'm gonna have to call out sick."
Chapter 11

I check the time on my Rolex watch. It's about the time E'steem usually gets up to start her beauty routine. I'd love to see the look on her face when she gets a look at herself in the mirror. It'd probably make my day.

While I'd love to get a laugh at the expense of my former herald, I'd best look in on my new apprentices. Since my pupils they did their homework I can prepare to teach them the next lesson in my discourse. I'm sure they'll be eager to participate in some hands on learning with E'steem today in the mystic arts.
Chapter 12

I'm finishing up the last paragraph of my article of my interview with Mr. Haynes when a light fills our room. When it clears, I see Mr. Lucerne in the reflection of my computer monitor. "Did I do a good job on my homework?" I say springing out of my seat.

Mr. Lucerne smiles at me. "You all did exceptionally well Raven."

"Thanks. We followed your spell to the letter."

"So are we going to get mystic energy to practice more spells?"

"Why of course." Mr. Lucerne replies. "All you have to do is come with me."

As I hop out of my seat and stand next to Mr. Lucerne Willow and Tempest ease up off their beds and give me uneasy looks. "But we have class in an hour." Willow says peering down at the time on her iPad.

I can't believe she's still thinking about class when we can learn something better than algebra. "So we miss a class or two. Big deal."

"But if our teachers see we're not in class they're gonna tell the Headmistress." Tempest whines. "And if we cut we're gonna get put on kitchen duty-"

God, they're just so short sighted. "We're gonna get the power to be real witches-"

"I just don't want to get in trouble with the Headmistress-"

"We won't have to worry about her when we get our power." I say. "And we won't have to worry about anyone getting in our way ever again."

Tempest and Willow shuffle over to Mr. Lucerne and I. As we all disappear in a flash of light, I smile in anticipation of getting the power to get even with E'steem.
Chapter 13

On seeing my face in its demonic visage John rushes from behind his desk with a worried look on his face. "What happened?"

"My body...it's stuck in its demon form." I say. "I-I can't turn myself back into a human."

"Have you tried concentrating?" John asks.

"I did. But my face is still stuck this way. And I don't know how to un-stick it-"

"You tried your magic?"

I shake my head. "I did and it didn't work. I don't know what to do-"

John grimaces as he comes to a conclusion. "I know what to do. We're taking the day off so we can go see Merlin-"

That's really sweet of him to take the day off to deal with my problems. But he really needs to take care of business around here. "I'll be okay. You go to work."

John takes my hand. "I really don't want to leave you like this-"

I think it would be the best thing. If whatever supernatural force could do this to me, then there's no telling what they could do to him. He'd be safer dealing with our holiday plans. "We've got a busy schedule. And you have a meeting in a you have to get ready for in thirty minutes."

"It's gonna be tough getting through the day without my helpmeet-"

I flash him a smile. "That's what you hired Lilith for."

"Guess I'll have to rely on my left hand today now that my right hand is incapacitated." John says giving me a kiss on the lips. "I'll be praying for you."

"Thanks."

I shuffle out of the den and head down the hall. I don't know what the office hours are in New Avalon, but maybe Merlin would be willing to see me without an appointment.
Chapter 14

A flash of light takes all us from the dorms of the Eastland Academy to the abandoned Smallpox hospital on Roosevelt Island. These ruins will be the perfect place for me to assess the skills of my new charges.

The girls look around curiously. When Raven sees the Citicorp Building in the distance she realizes where we are. "You brought us to The Ruins?"

"It's a place filled with mystic energy." I tell her.

"So we're gonna get our power?" Willow asks.

"All the power you'll ever need. All I have to do is open your spirit to it."

I can hear the girls' hearts racing as I gesture my hands. "From the dark forces of beyond I bestow upon these three witches the power to tap the mystic energy of the Ancients."

The girls' auras change in color as their spirits open their souls up to me. I could easily corrupt their hearts at this point, but I have no idea how loyal they'd be to me. Until I see how devoted they are to learning the dark arts I'll just allow them the ability to temporarily harness a basic element.

"I can feel it." Raven says.

"Yes, you all can. I've given you all the ability to control a basic element."

Raven eagerly gestures her hands and makes debris swirl around her as she controls the wind. Willow gestures and the ground shakes under her feet. And Tempest gestures and turns the moisture in the air into water around her hands. On seeing their new powers, the girls smile. "Cool." Raven says.

"I'm glad you're pleased." I continue. "Show me you are capable of using this small portion of mystic energy to best E'steem in magical combat and I'll give you all her power."

Raven smiles eagerly as she summons a wind. As she starts to rise in the air, I gesture for her to come down. "Where do you think you're going?"

"To the Morris Phillips Tower. I want first crack at E'steem."

A strategy D'lilah has used unsuccessfully on numerous occasions. As eager as Raven is to throttle the life out of E'steem I need her to learn to work with her fellow witches. "Not just yet."

What? You don't want us to go to get her?"

"No need for you to go to her." I say taking my Smartphone out of my blazer's inside pocket. "Thanks to the spell you cast on her last night, she'll come to you."
Chapter 15

John gives me a goodbye kiss before rushing onto the private elevator to go to work. When the elevator descends I shuffle back to the sofa and fall into its down cushions. I can remember a time when I was proud of wearing this face every day. Now I'm disgusted by the sight of it.

Funny how much life changes in a year and a half. I was finally starting to enjoy that human face of mine. And I was finally starting to see the beauty behind those big brown eyes. And I was really starting to enjoy my little creature comforts like pink polka dot bikini panties and scarlet crimson nail polish. And shoes. I was really starting to enjoy shoes. I look down at the black cloven claws on my toes and wonder how I'll even be able to get to the doctor. With this razor sharp manicure and pedicure of mine I can't even change out of my pajamas.

Maybe I can get Merlin to make a house call. I'm about to grab my Smartphone off the coffee table when it rings. When I see the picture above the number I realize who's behind my mysterious medical condition. I grab my phone off the counter and cock it to my ear. "I'm assuming you're taking a sick day." Lucifer taunts.

Not like I can go to work like this. "I should have known you'd be the one behind my recent illness-"

"No, that was a little spell by Raven and the members of her coven."

"Which you probably provided."

"Just doing my part to encourage our youth in pursuing their passions. If you want a cure of your little ailment come to the Ruins on Roosevelt Island."

"I'd love to do that, but I just don't have a thing to wear."

My body tingles. When I feel my horns shrinking down into my skull and my cloven claws shrinking back under the cuticles of my fingernails and toenails I realize he's making me human again. "I'll give you short reprieve to get yourself together. But if you're not at The Ruins in an hour I'll change you back to your old self permanently."

When Lucifer ends the call I dart out of the living room down the hall into my bedroom. In between showering and doing my hair I'll barely have fifteen minutes to get down to there.
Chapter 16

I slip my Smartphone into the inside pocket of my tailored blazer and smile at my new charges. "I just spoke to E'steem. She'll be here in an hour. She just needs to freshen up."

Raven folds her arms and pouts. "I still don't see why we couldn't go to her-"

This little girl has to learn a lot more about strategy. "That wouldn't be smart."

"Why?" Willow asks.

"The tower is too well protected. And E'steem knows the area too well. If you're going to get the tactical advantage over her you have to make her come to you."

"But there's three of us." Tempest says. "With our power we could easily beat her."

"I'm sure you could, but here we have the element of an unfamiliar environment."

"How's that gonna help us? Raven asks.

"There's more to being a witch than making potions and casting spells." I continue. "You also have to have strategy in order to defeat an opponent as smart as E'steem. And the best strategy is to make someone like her engage you on your terms."

"I guess we're gonna have to learn a lot more than magic if we're gonna be witches." Raven concedes.

"And I'll be glad to mentor you in your new powers once you best E'steem in magical combat."
Chapter 17

I get one last look at myself in the full-length mirror dressed in my red wrap dress and tall black high-heeled boots. Oh how I miss this human face, the ability to wear designer clothes, and Scarlet crimson nail polish. If I get through this I'll never take being human for granted again.

I look over at my iPhone on the dresser and catch the time. While I'd love to teleport to The Ruins, I don't know Roosevelt Island well enough to plan a surprise attack. So I'm going to have to make a flight out in the open and hope I don't make myself a target. I grab my iPhone, slip it into the sleeve inside my boot, dart out of the bedroom onto the balcony and activate my cloak. Once I fade from sight I climb the parapet, take a flying leap off the balcony and make a pair of bat wings sprout out of my back with a thought. When I hear the back of my dress ripping I catch a Northeast updraft and start flying up towards Roosevelt Island.

I quickly spot the ruins of the former Smallpox hospital when I pass by the Queensboro Bridge. As I make myself visible and start to descend I see Lucifer, Raven, and two other Eastland girls standing with them. Those must be the other members of the Coven. Maybe I can persuade them to stop walking down this dark road before they get started.

"Ten seconds to spare." Lucifer says as he checks his Rolex watch. "Still good with time."

"I don't want to lose any more sick days." I say after I land and make my wings shrink into my back.

"You just didn't want to lose face."

The last thing I want to be is stuck with that face permanently. "I'm sure this is part of some sort of plan to humiliate me."

Lucifer smiles at me. "You can avoid all your suffering by returning to my Legion."

I figured that's what all this is about. "Never gonna happen."

"Then I'm not responsible for my young charges do to you. Raven, Tempest, Willow, take her!"

Lucifer steps aside and the girls charge at me. As wind swirls around Raven, her blonde friend's hands turn the air around her fists into water. When her red haired classmate gestures in my direction the ground shakes under me and knocks me to the ground. Looks like these kids play rough.

As I scramble to my feet I assess what I'm up against. Looks like he's given them each a power over an element. I could easily beat them if they were adults. But because they're kids I've got to hold back. I couldn't live with myself if I hurt a child.

While the girls press their attack I try to make a plea to them. "You don't want to do this-"

"You don't want to mess with us." Raven snarls. She gestures and uses the wind to swirl a vortex around me. While I'm blinded by dirt I'm hit with a blast of water shot from Tempest's hands. The force is so strong I feel like I'm being sprayed with a fire hose. As I'm knocked back I hear the ground shaking under me; Looks like Willow is trying to knock me off my feet again. I'm surprised when I'm hit from behind with a fist made of dirt. When I peer up and see a giant creature constructed of the earth I realize that I'm in for a spell of trouble.

"Look, I can make stuff out of the ground! Willow says.

Maybe I can use her naïveté to my advantage. While she's caught up in what she can do I clap my hands together to form a shockwave to dissipate her creature. As the debris showers over them I try to use my cloak to give myself a breather. But before I can even think to fade from sight I'm hit in the gut with a blast of water. "You're not getting away from us that easy." Tempest says.

Tempest increases the pressure and I struggle to get to my knees against the rush of water being sprayed at me. I hear the wind swirling around me and before I can deal with the water, I'm hit in the face with one of the stones from the ruins of the Smallpox hospital. As I'm knocked back to the ground I catch the smile on Raven's face. "Maybe now you regret blowing me off yesterday." She says as she approaches me.

"If this is what you were going to use magic for I know you're not ready for power like this."

Raven cuts a cold look at me and clenches her fists. "I am ready for it!" She barks before using the wind to lift me up off the ground. "If I can do this imagine what I'll do when I have power like yours!"

So that's what he promised them. The way she's high on power she reminds me of the sorcerers I used to duel in ancient times. If she wasn't after me she'd hurt a bunch of innocent people just because of some imagined slight.

Raven laughs as she tosses me face first into the ground with a gust of wind. I spring to my feet and try to reason with her. "Magic isn't meant to be used like this Raven."

"What's it meant to be used for?" she barks.

"Magic was meant to help people-"

Raven uses her wind power and hurls bricks off the roof of the hospital at me. "Yeah, it's gonna help me beat you." She snarls.

I fire a blast of hellfire at the bricks and they explode into dust before they can hit me. Seeing me distracted by the bricks, Tempest fires another spray of water at me. I fire another blast of Hellfire that turns it into steam. But before the fog can clear, the air starts swirling around me. Everything starts getting harder to see as it forms into a tornado. Outside of the vortex I make out the silhouette of an earth creature and I'm hit in the face by a fist by another of Willow's earth creatures that rises behind me. As I get to my knees, Raven increases the speed of the tornado to winds that are hundreds of miles per hour. I can't see a thing as the earth creature that attacked me of gets caught up in it. While I'm distracted by another blast of water in the gut from Tempest, Raven funnels dozens of bricks from the façade of the hospital ruins into the tornado and hurls them at me. In the speeding vortex they feel like sledge hammers pounding into the side of my head. I start to become dizzy as the fist from another earth creature to the back of my head has me seeing stars. I have to get out of here...
Chapter 18

The winds from Raven's tornado die down as E'steem's body slumps to the ground. I'd have to say I was impressed by the sheer brutality of their onslaught. If this is the level of ruthlessness these young charges will use on the regular in the dispatching of their foes they'll be promising members when they graduate to my Legion.

I smile as we all approach the fallen she-demon. As we peer down at her I let them know how proud I am of them. "I'd have to say I'm impressed by your showing." I tell them. "You're going to be great witches."

Raven glows when she hears that. "I'd definitely be better at magic than E'steem ever was."

"Witch? I think you could well work your way up to becoming a sorceress in a few years."

Raven's eyes light up on hearing about the career path witches have in the Legion. "So I can be more than a witch?"

"If you continue with your studies in Magic you can become a Sorceress like E'steem."

"What's the difference between a witch and a sorceress?"

"A witch only knows a few spells. A sorceress is a master of both White and Black Magic."

Raven smiles imagining herself in that role. "I could definitely see myself being that." Raven says proudly.

"I thought you wanted to be a reporter." Tempest says.

"I can be both." Raven snarls.

"So how are we gonna get E'steem's power?" Willow asks.

"In order for one witch to get the power of another she must be burned. Then the mystic energy will be dispersed from her corpse and flow into the nearest possible witch."

I gesture and an iron stake appears one hand and the chains of Hephaestus in the other. Before I set up the stake Raven grabs E'steem's leg and starts unzipping her boot. "What do you think you're doing?"

"These are Prada! You don't burn Prada!" Raven says holding one of the boots up.

"It would be a shame to see a fine pair of fine Italian leather boots incinerated." I concede.

"They'll look better on me than they do on her." Raven laughs.
Chapter 19

New designer boots and new magic powers. Today couldn't get any better.

While Mr. Lucerne, Tempest and Willow set up E'steem's body on the pyre I admire my new Prada boots. In a few minutes I'll have power equal to make anything I want possible. Who needs school when I can have the world?

Once I get these new powers I'm gonna turn Blair into a toad. Then I'm gonna build myself a nice little empire where I'm the center of everyone's universe.
Chapter 20

I stir out of a state of unconsciousness feeling grit under my bare feet. When my vision starts to clear I see Raven standing across from me wearing my Italian designer boots. She looks into my eyes and smiles smugly at me. "Hey, look who's up." She says.

On seeing me awaken, the coven and Lucifer approach me with smiles on their faces. I feel something cold and metallic against my back and my hands bound behind it in chains. They must be the chains of Hephaestus, that's the only reason why I feel so weak right about now.

"Ah, E'steem." Lucifer taunts. "I wanted you to be awake to see the last moments of your life flash before your very eyes."

More like he wanted to gloat. "Burned at the stake." I snarl. "This is original."

"It's the only way I know to get rid of a witch like you." Lucifer says. "Once you're dead these young charges will inherit your mystical energy and your power."

So that's the lie he told them. Well, it's time to show him the real difference between a witch and a sorceress. I flash him a smile. "Before I die can I have a few last words?" I ask.

"But of course."

"Hey Raven?" I say catching the girls' dark eyes.

Raven glares at me. "Gonna say sorry for blowing me off?"

"Nope, just gonna concede that you're a superior witch to an old sorceress like me. But I just have one question for you."

"What?"

"When I die, which one of you gets my power?"

Raven smiles smugly while Tempest and Willow's eyes grow wide on the revelation. "I'm going to get all your powers." Raven boasts confidently. "After all, I put in all the effort to get even with you-"

Tempest glares at her fellow witch. "You! If I hadn't showed you E'steem's video on the Internet you wouldn't know anything about her!"

Willow's hands clench into fists. "Well, I got the bad luck spell off the Savvy Sorceress' blog!"

I deserve her power!" Raven insists.

Tempest fires a blast of water at Raven and hits her in the gut. As she falls to the ground Tempest cuts a cold look at her. "That's all you deserve. Because you're all wet."

An angry Raven retaliates by blowing Tempest to the ground with a gust of wind. Before she can press the attack on Tempest the ground shakes under her and knocks her off her feet. While the girls fight each other Lucifer scowls at me. "You think you're so smart."

Just taking a lesson I learned from John to heart. "A lot smarter than you are." I say smiling at him.

Lucifer's hands clench into fists. "You may have turned my charges against themselves. But there's no way out of those chains."

While these chains may have weakened my body, my mind is still strong. If I concentrate hard enough maybe I can teleport myself out of them. I look over to a spot far away from where the girls are brawling and muster up every iota of concentration I have to imagine myself there. When I hear the sounds of the chains of Hephaestus falling to the ground behind me, I tumble forward into a flash of light. I did it!

I don't have time to celebrate my little accomplishment. Lucifer and the girls notice me stumbling about as I try to regain my faculties. "She's getting away!" Lucifer barks.

I try to put some more distance between the witches and myself as I try to shake off the weakness from the chains of Hephaestus. As I hear their footsteps rushing behind me, I can feel the glass and rocks scraping against my bare feet in the weeds. Crap, I'm still not a hundred percent.

Noticing how I'm lumbering about, Lucifer comes up with a new lie to motivate his charges. "The first one who kills her gets her power!" He barks.

In my weakened condition there's no way I'm going to be able to even transform into my demonic visage or use my powers. I'm gonna have to take them on as plain old E'steem Katious. Before I can turn around to engage them, Willow makes the ground shake and knocks me off my feet. When I fall to the ground, Tempest fires a jet of water at me that misses me by a hair. The force of the spray tears through the weeds and gouges a huge hole out of the ground; had that been my head I'd be dead.

Tempest catches up to me and fires another shot of water at me; I roll out of the way and spring into a defensive stance. I feel some of my strength returning to my limbs; when she tries to fire a series of rapid fire water blasts at me I make a run for it. As I start to increase my speed, the girl continues to fire blasts of water at me. While I run rings around her I stop for a second and blow a raspberry at her.

On the jab, Tempest loses it and starts firing blasts of water at me without thinking about where she's firing them. Just as I'm dodging one of her shots, Willow tires to take advantage of my distraction by making another giant Earth creature rise up out of the ground. I manage to build enough momentum to dodge its blow and race up one of its arms onto its shoulder. Tempest sees an opportunity to take me down and shoots a blast of water into the torso of the creature that starts turning it into mud. As it starts melting into the ground she fires a spray of water at me. I dodge the blast, dive off the creature's shoulder and give her a splash that knocks her to the mud. The impact of my three hundred twenty five pound steel hard body knocks her out cold. One down, two to go.

Seeing her classmate taken down, Raven clenches her fists and summons a wind that takes her into the sky. I roll into a fighting stance and Willow gestures and makes a pair of muddy earthen hands grab at my ankles. I can hear the ground rumbling again as she makes another earth creature to rise from the ground. As it wraps its arms around me, Raven waves her hands and hurls another brick from the roof of the crumbling hospital in my direction. I'm surprised when the brick sails past me and hits her fellow classmate in the head. The earth creature holding me turns back into dust as the girl slumps into the mud.

I peer up and smile at Raven who points daggers at me. "There's some way to treat a friend." I tell her.

"Who needs friends when you can have power?" Raven snarls.

With a friend like her who needs enemies? "If only your fellow witches can hear how you really feel about them."

"Who cares about those losers? I'm going to be Sorceress Supreme-"

Such lofty aspirations for someone who hasn't even finished high school. "That's my title."

"If I beat you once I can do it again."

She only beat me because I was holding back. But with her high on power I've got no choice but to take her down. Raven hurls more bricks off the roof at me; with a thought I make my hands erupt into blue flames of Hellfire. A blast from my hands turns the bricks into dust before they can even touch me. "That the best you can do sorceress?" I taunt.

Raven growls in rage. Hurricane force winds start swirling around me; soon it turns into another tornado. She smiles smugly as she makes the vortex spin faster and faster; I start to cough as dust inside the funnel starts to get in my nose. She thinks she's going to suffocate me by sucking all the air out of the eye; she just fell right into my trap.

I hold my breath and fire a blast of hellfire into the tornado. On seeing the flames shot into her vortex Raven points daggers at me and continues to increase the speed of her tornado to hundreds of miles per hour in an effort to extinguish my flames. With the temperature of Hellfire being 99 times hotter than the hottest flame it disintegrates all the dirt and debris in the funnel cloud. Soon a spire of blue flame swirls high into the sky above us. As the flames consume all the oxygen in the air around Raven the girl starts to falter and falls out of the sky. Thankfully I manage to catch her before she can hit the ground.

The spire dissipates as I ease her into the weeds. I feel a pulse; outside of a bruised ego she'll be fine. I'm about to unzip my Italian designer boots and take them off her feet when I feel a pair of hard thick hands on my shoulders. Lucifer cuts a cold look at me as he shoves me to the ground. "You think you've won haven't you?" He snarls.

"Looks that way to me." I say smiling at him. "All three of your witches have been laid out and I'm about to rebuke you-"

Lucifer cuts a cold look at me and I feel my horns shooting out of my forehead and my finger and toenails changing back into cloven claws. "The whole point of this little exercise wasn't about them. It was to show you how much power I still have over you."

If he hadn't caught me off guard I'd have been ready for him. "The only power you have is what I allow you to have over me." I say changing myself back into my human form.

"Keep believing that." Lucifer laughs. "You know, I could leave you with a demonic visage permanently."

That wouldn't change who I am on the inside. "It doesn't matter what you do to me I'm never coming back to the Legion-"

"Do you honestly think you're going to Heaven?"

"Why won't you just let me go?"

"Because you're mine."

"You don't have my soul-"

"No, I don't have your soul E'steem. But I still have your body. And as long as I have hold over your flesh I still have hold over you."

If that's all he wants I'll give that up. "You want these powers, take them. I don't need them anymore-"

Lucifer shakes his head. "No, the only way I take your powers is if I take you. All of you. Body and soul."

"More like you need the powers to keep your power over me-"

"Sooner or later you're going to get tired of this little quest for salvation." Lucifer snarls. "And when you realize how futile it is you'll return to my Legion."

That just makes me more determined to keep fighting on the side of the angels. "I've given my life to Christ. And I'm staying with Him-"

"He's never going to take you-"

From what I've heard He takes everyone. "I'd like to think I have a shot at Heaven-"

"Maybe you haven't read what was written in The Revelation-"

"What?"

"All Sorcerers are condemned to Hell."
Chapter 21

I groan feeling dirt and weeds under me as I wake out of a state of unconsciousness. Before I passed out I remember being up in the sky. I guess E'steem must have brought me down to earth.

My eyes flutter open and I look over and see my mud stained classmates sitting next to me with their heads down. "Hey, look who's up." E'steem teases.

I follow E'steem's sultry voice and find her standing in front of us with her hands on her hips in a brand-new looking red wrap dress. When I feel my socks brushing against the weeds I look down at her feet and realize she's reclaimed her Italian leather boots. "I guess you got yourself all clean using magic." I snarl.

"That's one of its purposes if you use it responsibly." E'steem says smiling at us.

I reach to blast her with a gust of wind and Tempest takes my hand. "It's not gonna work." She tells me. "Our powers are gone."

My eyes grow wide when I point at E'steem and realize she's right. "What happened to our powers?" I bark.

"Lucifer probably took them back when I beat you." E'steem says.

I look around for our teacher. "Lucifer? What happened to Mr. Lucerne?"

"He's long gone." E'steem replies. "But I wouldn't be worried about Mr. Lucerne. I'd be worried more about Headmistress Rowan."

"Why?"

"I told her I caught you girls cutting hooky. And I said I'd be bringing you back to school in five minutes."

E'steem gestures and we all get up. "Five minutes? It'll take a half-hour to get off the Island on the tram."

E'steem smiles at me. "Who needs a tram when you can ride NHTS."

"NHTS?"

A flash of light envelops us all before I can get an answer.

FINAL CHAPTER

A flash of light takes us from the Ruins of Roosevelt Island's Smallpox Hospital to the steps in front of Eastland Academy's Garrett Hall. Once I drop off these kids with the headmistress I'll be able to get back to work.

Although I have to wonder if what I'm really working for is even attainable. I know John came from his heart when he said that God takes everyone. But is it truly possible for a demon like me to receive God's gift of salvation? Or am I truly condemned to spend eternity in Hell for learning sorcery as a child? I'd like to believe God wouldn't punish me for being taught things I didn't know were wrong.

The girls give me sullen looks as they march up the stairs. Before I get the door for them, Raven makes one last plea to me. "Do you have to take us back?" she whines.

I flash her a smile. "I wouldn't be a responsible adult if I didn't bring you back here."

"But we're gonna get in trouble-"

"Hey, you do the crime you have to do the time." I say.

I feel the girls' trepidation as we head down the hall. I'd love to offer them some comforting words but I doubt anything I could say would make them feel better. When we enter the Headmistress' office the secretary grimaces at the sight of the girls in their filthy uniforms. "I found these three playing in the mud." I tell her.

"The headmistress is waiting for them." The secretary replies.

I point at the door to the Headmistress' office. The girls take slow heavy steps as they shuffle inside. Headmistress Rowan grimaces at the sight of her three soiled charges. "Getting the scoop on a story for the school paper Raven?"

"I just thought-"

"You just thought you'd cut classes and assault Mr. Haynes' assistant. Is that it?"

"But she wouldn't teach us magic-"

"You're lucky I don't expel all of you." The headmistress huffs. "But since you're so eager to learn magic you'll be learning how to make dirty dishes disappear from the cafeteria until you graduate."

The girls eyes grow wide on hearing their punishment. "That's a whole year and a half!" Tempest pleads.

"Starting today. Now march yourselves back up to the dorms and get out of those filthy uniforms. The lunch rush is coming up in an hour and you'll need to be ready for it."

After the girls somberly shuffle out of the Headmistress' office she turns to me. "You look fairly clean for someone who was playing in the mud yourself. What's your secret?"

Thanks to the Raimentus spell I always come out looking squeaky clean after even the dirtiest of battles. "Would you believe this dress has amazing stain release qualities?"

"I would if it weren't for the pillar of flame I saw outside my window."

"Let me guess. You watch my escapades on YouTube."

"Today's episode was broadcast right after you called me." Headmistress Rowan replies. "I would have asked for an autograph yesterday but I didn't want to put you on the spot in front of John."

"I doubt he'd have minded. He gets as much attention from those forces of darkness as I do."

"I really want to apologize for all our students put you through."

Now I know why John hates this place so much. If that's what the mean girls do to nerds like me I don't think I ever want to experience high school again. "It's just another day at the office for me." I tell her.

"If you think fighting them is bad try administering them."

"I bet you have some war stories."

"I'll tell you all about them next week."

"I'll be eager to hear them then."

I flash the headmistress a smile as a flash of light takes me from the halls of Garrett Hall to the sidewalk. Just as I'm about to get my iPhone out of my boot to call John someone speaks to me. "It's not God's will for any soul to perish E'steem." The still voice tells me.

I turn around and a man in a tailored pinstripe suit and a fedora greets me with a smile. "Er...Do I know you?"

"No, but He knows you." He continues. "And He knows your heart."

My jaw falls agape when I realize who the stranger is. "You mean He-"

"Is very pleased with you E'steem. Keep up the good work."

The stranger tips his hat and smiles at me before disappearing into a flash of light. Maybe there's hope for this old soul of mine after all...

The E'steem Series

E'steem: No Good Deed

Bad girl gone good! No longer a member of Lucifer's Legion, former She-demon E'steem is now on the side of the angels. Starting her journey down the straight and narrow path, she runs afoul of some stick-up kids while shopping on Madison Avenue in this action packed short. Can Hell's former harbinger scare them straight?

E'steem: Deadly D'lilah

Bad girl gone good! Good girl in peril! Six months after events transpiring in The _Temptation of John Haynes_ , former She-demon E'steem is now on the side of the angels. Further down the down the straight and narrow path, she's attacked by D'lilah a young ambitious she-demon out to move up the ladder in the Hierarchy of Hell. And the only way she can do that is by killing E'steem.

# Isis: My Sister, My Frenemy

Frenemies! Things come to a head as Isis tells her estranged sister E'steem she still doesn't trust her. But when E'steem is kidnapped by the demon D'lilah, Isis realizes that she has to move their relationship past the frenemy zone to save her former archenemy from a fate worse than death.

# E'steem: Demons Anonymous

Bad Girl gone good! Good girl needs help! Approached by the handsome rogue demon Claudius, E'steem is asked to speak at Demons Anonymous, his support group for demons who have left Lucifer's Legion. But when Lucifer and D'lilah hear about her plans to speak to his demons about Christ they plan to crash the party and crucify Claudius. Can' Hell's former harbinger save Claudius' soul form the wrath of her former lord?

# E'steem: Faerie Tale

Bad girl gone good! Good girl goes Medieval! When legendary sorceress Morgan Le Fay casts a spell on E'steem's boyfriend John, she journeys to Morgan's castle above the clouds to save her prince.

# E'steem: The Beast from the Bowels

Bad Girl Gone Good! Good Girl throws down! After a desperate D'lilah is defeated by E'steem for fourth time, Lucifer recruits Umbuttra, the She-Beast from the Bowels of Hell to eliminate E'steem once and for all. But if the brutal beast kills E'steem in battle, Lucifer promises to give her D'lilah's position as the second most powerful she-demon in all Hell. Will D'lilah keep her spot in Hell's Hierarchy? And will E'steem survive the onslaught of these two unholy terrors?

#

# E'steem: Undercover

Bad Girl Gone Good! Good Girl goes undercover! When E'steem and John find stolen boxes of Marshmallow cookies in a Bronx Bodega, she goes undercover at the Nabiskit factory in Philadelphia to find the employee responsible for the thefts. Can the Devilish Diva stop the cookie crook and put an end to their confectionary caper?

Catch up on the E'steem series in eBook and Paperback at your favorite online bookseller!

About The Author

Shawn James is the author of a dozen paperbacks, three screenplays, and over thirty eBooks. A graduate of Monroe College he's been writing for over twenty years.

Other eBooks by Shawn James

Isis Series:

Isis

Isis: Trial of the Goddess

Isis: Amari's Revenge

Isis: The Ultimate Fight

Isis: The Beauty Myth

Isis: Death of a Theta

Isis: My Sister, My Frenemy

Isis: All About the Goddess

Isis: Wrath of the Cybergoddess

Isis: Power of the Princess

Isis: Night of the Vampires

E'steem Series

The Saga of MastiKatious

Baptism of Blood- The Origin of E'steem

The Politics of Hell

E'steem: Deadly D'lilah

E'steem: No Good Deed

E'steem: Demons Anonymous

E'steem The Beast from the Bowels

E'steem: Undercover

Fantasy fiction by Shawn James

The Temptation of John Haynes

Young Adult fiction by Shawn James

The Sneakers

The Thetas

Romance by Shawn James

A Recipe For $ucce$$

The Muse

Screenplays by Shawn James

All About Marilyn

All About Nikki- The Fabulous First Season

All About Nikki- The Sensational Second Season

All About Nikki- The Lost Episodes

Spray em' Up

Non-Fiction by Shawn James:

Stop Simpin- Why Men Don't Need Finance to Get Romance

Manginas-They Look Like Men But Act Like Ladies

The Myth of the Strong Black Woman

An Analysis of the Comic Book Industry's business issues

Also published by SJS DIRECT

Commencement

School of Hard Knocks: The Re-education of Jim Reid

Connect With Shawn Online:

E-mail: sjsdirectamerica@gmail.com

http://www.twitter.com/shawnsjames

http://www.facebook.com/shawnsjames

http://www.linkedin.com/in/shawnsjames9973

And check out Shawn's blog: www.shawnsjames.blogspot.com New blogs every Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday!

***

