

Eternity can wait

By

Paula Bell

Copyright©2014 by Paula Bell, All Rights Reserved

Smashwords Edition
Preface

Jenny looked behind herself to make sure that Christian couldn't see her. Then she took a few steps to a nearby tree and sat on the grass. Sighing wearily, she leaned her back against the trunk and closed her eyes. Jenny wanted everything to be over now, but she knew they would have to walk for two more days through the forest.

She wondered if she had done the right thing, trusting Christian, but she wasn't sure if she could find the way on her own, and she didn't want to be alone in the woods. She had no other choice but to follow him, and to trust him.

She had to find the strength within herself to swim across the river, and then she and Christian had to find a place to spend the night. The thought that she would have to swim after the exhausting walk, didn't bother her as much as the thought that she would be spending the night in the woods.

Suddenly, a strange sound from the forest interrupted her thoughts, startling her. She opened her eyes and looked into the woods, but at first she didn't see anything. The sound reached her again, this time it was louder and clearer. It sounded like the growl of an animal.

She rose to her feet and stared into the woods. Something dark and huge was moving toward her. The branches of the trees bent and crackled under its weight. Whatever it was, it was enormous.

She saw two, glowing eyes coming closer toward her. The animal took a few more steps and came out of the shade of the trees. When she saw it, her mouth fell open. She couldn't believe her eyes.

1

Jenny slowly leaned back and looked around. She was still sitting in the small kitchen with light blue walls. There was a half-empty teacup and a half-eaten bowl of oatmeal on the table in front of her. The huge clock was still ticking evenly on the wall opposite her. An hour had passed without her noticing. She was too absorbed in her thoughts to notice how the morning had passed.

In her mind the image of her ex-boyfriend, Brad, constantly surfaced. He was saying: "I think it's time for a change. We've been together for too long"; then he was hugging Amanda, who was smirking, trying to simulate empathy rather unsuccessfully.

Brad and Jenny had been together over a year, when he dumped her a few days before the prom. He and Amanda had begun dating immediately, without hiding their feelings. Brad was the captain of the football team, and Amanda one of the cheerleaders. Amanda was blonde, beautiful, and shallow. Jenny felt that her life would be easier if girls like Amanda didn't exist.

After the initial shock, Jenny had become a prisoner in her home. She couldn't bear watching them together, or the spiteful comments of Amanda's friends. She didn't go anywhere because she didn't want to come across any of them. She also didn't want to see anyone because she couldn't bear the humiliation Brad had caused her. She was sure that all her classmates and neighbors knew about it because she was living in a small town.

That was Cle Elum, located in Washington State in a half–hour drive from Seattle. It was so small that all the people knew one another, and everybody knew almost everything about everyone.

Jenny sighed and walked into the living room, dragging her feet. When she reached the couch, she slumped helplessly onto it. She had spent a lot of time lying on the couch and watching TV shows in recent weeks.

She had lost her appetite. At least, she didn't eat a few buckets of ice – cream a day, like her friends did when they were dumped by their boyfriends.

The only person she needed was her best friend Elizabeth, but she had gone on a trip to Europe. Jenny wasn't angry with Elizabeth for leaving her alone, because she knew that Elizabeth had been working since she was sixteen to save money for this trip. She had other friends, but they weren't in Cle Elum either, and she was feeling very lonely. Jenny's nineteenth birthday was approaching, but she didn't feel like celebrating.

She wanted to get away from everything, but she didn't know where she could go. She had been accepted to the Arizona Western College – the same college, where Brad had been accepted on a football scholarship. Last year, when she had applied, the only thing she had wanted was to be with him. After he had left her, behaving like a jerk, she didn't want anything to do with him. She had decided to take a gap year, but she had no idea what to do for so long.

Jenny sighed again and began to examine the TV Guide magazine. Nothing caught her interest and she threw it on the table. She lay helplessly against the pillow and looked at the bureau. There were a few family photos, carefully arranged by her mother.

Her father had left her and her mother long ago, when Jenny was a child, and she barely remembered him. Her mother had thrown away all his pictures after that.

Jenny's eyes fell on a picture of her, with her mother and her aunt, the three of them smiling happily. She was nostalgic for those times before she had known Brad when her life had been more carefree.

Jenny hugged the pillow and tried not to cry. She had never cried for a boy in her life, and she had forbidden herself to weep over Brad. Over the past two weeks, she had gone through several stages of breakup depression: from "It can't be true!" through "How could he dump me!" to "What a bastard!" She hadn't even cried on prom night when everyone else had gone, and she had remained at home, alone. She had punched her pillow, thinking angrily: "I hate him! God damn him!" but she had not shed a single tear.

While she was lying on the couch, she noticed a picture of her mother and her aunt, in which they were hugging each other, smiling. Aunt Mary was the older sister of her mother and she had a son, who worked as a doctor in Chicago. When Jenny was a child, she used to spend several weeks every summer at her aunt's house. Mary lived in Leavenworth, a small town not far from Cle Elum. Jenny had made some new friends there, and during the school year she had been looking forward to seeing them again.

Suddenly, the idea hit her that she could go back to her aunt's, but this time she could stay there for the whole summer. In the fall Brad would go to college, and maybe, Amanda and her awful friends would also leave the town. Jenny wondered why she hadn't figured this out earlier.

She jumped up and rummaged through the drawers of the bureau. She found a pen and some paper, and wrote a note to her mother. She left it on the kitchen table where they usually left messages for each other. Her mother was a nurse and was working a double shift at the hospital. Jenny didn't want to call her and interrupt her work.

She's probably too busy, Jenny thought. There was no point calling her aunt because she wouldn't be home at this time of the day. She would either be out gardening, or shopping with her friends.

This time Jenny would surprise her aunt, who had always enjoyed her visits. Mary lived alone since her husband died, many years ago. Several years later her son Jonathan had left to study medicine.

Jenny ran up the stairs, rushed into her room and pulled her quite wrinkled backpack from under the bed. She grabbed some clothes at random and shoved them in. She didn't need a lot of clothes because she had left some of her things at Mary's house on her previous visits. Actually, she hardly needed a thing.

Maybe I need some good luck, she thought, amused. She hoped that her friends would be still in Leavenworth, so she could spend the summer with them before they went off to college.

She stood at the mirror and stared at her reflection, something she had avoided doing in recent weeks. Her long ginger hair fell loosely over her shoulders. Her gray eyes were red from watching too much television. Her fair skin had acquired a yellowish tinge. She was beautiful, but she had never been among the most beautiful or the most popular girls in school.

She started to brush her hair, but soon gave up, thinking it was impossible to put in order the total mess that her hair was. Instead, she tied it in a ponytail. She put the brush into her backpack, and ran downstairs.

Jenny left the house for the first time in weeks, but she didn't look around. She was pretty sure the world was the same as it had been before. Once she had locked the front door, she ran to the sidewalk where she had abandoned her car some weeks ago. She got into the driver's seat and threw her backpack in the passenger seat. Then she put on the seat belt quickly and looked around.

Jenny was surprised by the speed of her movements. It had taken hours for her to get from the bed to the kitchen during recent weeks. It had also taken her hours to stand up from the chair and get to the couch, onto which she flopped. She had spent the rest of each day lying on it.

Now she knew exactly where she was going and couldn't wait to get there. She started the engine and smiled at her reflection in the mirror. The car lunged forward with an angry growl and moved through the neighborhood.

Her aunt lived about an hour away, but Jenny had no patience. Road 87 passed Cle Elum and went to Leavenworth, but she knew a shorter way.

After leaving town, she took on the Teanaway North Fork road. There was an old road after the Twenty-Nine Pines Campground, which had been abandoned many years ago. There was hardly ever any traffic because of the strange stories that people told about the area.

She couldn't even think about the stories she'd heard. She wanted to get away from Cle Elum, and from Brad and Amanda as quickly as possible.

The road was deserted. Tall trees, forming a dense, almost impenetrable forest, rose on either side of the road. Jenny had passed this road only once before, when she was a child. She remembered looking through the window, while her mother had been driving.

Jenny drove with furious speed, not paying attention to anything around her. She couldn't understand how people could be so stupid, or so suggestible. Nothing bad had happened the first time they passed this road, and she didn't expect to have any trouble this time.

She was thinking of Caroline and Andrew, the twins who lived next door to her aunt. She had spent two weeks every summer with them since she was a child, and she hoped that she would meet them again. They were her age and the three of them had always had a great time together. She wondered what plans they had for their last summer in Leavenworth.

Jenny was so lost in her thoughts that she didn't notice she had almost run out of fuel. The red, flashing light on the dashboard caught her attention. She pulled over and stopped, angry with herself for not checking it before leaving.

She got out of the car and opened the trunk, hoping there was a can of gasoline inside. There was plenty of junk, but no sign of the only thing she really needed. She slammed the lid down angrily and got back in the car.

Jenny wondered what to do, fuming. She didn't want to bother her mother. She decided to call roadside assistance, and fumbled in her backpack. When she opened her cell phone, she encountered fresh disappointment – it was out of range. She couldn't believe her eyes; she wasn't even very far from town. Jenny threw the phone angrily into her backpack and leaned back helplessly against the driver's seat.

Maybe if I'm lucky someone will pass by . . . if I am extremely lucky it will happen soon, she thought hopefully. The idea of hitch–hiking bothered her, but she didn't want to go back, either.

She took her backpack and got out of the car. No cars approached; there were no voices to be heard. She was all alone in this wild place, yet she felt no fear.

She had no idea how much time had passed, but she began to lose patience. She glanced at her watch and was surprised to find that it had stopped. It showed 11:10 a.m. – the approximate time she must have left the town. She remembered that the last time she had looked at her watch was before taking this road.

That's strange . . . she thought.

She took a few steps forward and looked at the trees ahead.

She had heard the stories about people, lost in these woods, and stories about tourists, who camped in this area. Some of them had disappeared and never been found. Others had returned unharmed, but didn't remember what had happened to them, or how they had come back.

Jenny had often pondered these stories, wondering whether they were true. She had also wondered what had happened to these people to make them forget. She had tried to organize a camping trip in this forest, some years ago, but her classmates had refused. She had been disappointed, and had thought them cowards, but she hadn't gone there alone.

The road twists and turns before reaching Leavenworth. The forest is the most direct way, she thought.

Maybe if I go now, I'll be in Leavenworth by tonight. I can call someone to pick up my car. She took a few more steps, slowly leaving the road and entering the woods.

Maybe it's insane what I'm doing, she mused, or perhaps the stories people tell are bullshit. People who have nothing to do make up stupid stories.

Jenny wondered what to do next. Her mother wouldn't be home until tonight and wouldn't know that she had gone. Her aunt didn't know that she was coming to visit her.

By this evening I'll be in Leavenworth, and no one will understand what I have done. I'll say that I hitch–hiked. She shifted her backpack to a more comfortable position and walked confidently forward.

I have to hurry, if I want to get there before dark.

2

Walking through the forest wasn't as easy as she had expected. The grass was quite long and she could hardly see her feet. She had to keep away from the tree branches and bushes, while she was walking between them. In some places the wood wasn't so dense, and walking was easier.

There were beautiful meadows, lit by the sun. The air carried the scent of flowers and pine. The silence was broken only by the song of birds, not far away from her. The leaves of the trees rustled in the light wind. The forest looked so peaceful that Jenny couldn't believe anything bad could happen. She wanted to stop and look around, but she knew there was no time.

Even after some hours of walking through the forest, she wasn't tired yet because she was in an excellent physical condition. Sport had been an integral part of her life since she was a child.

Her latest passion had been relay running in the school team. She had been the best sprinter, so she had always run last. But it had been difficult for her to combine training, studying and dating Brad. Because of him, she had started missing some of her practices. Her coach had got angry and kicked her out of the team. Since then, she had spent much of her free time sitting on the benches of the stadium, watching Brad and his rugby team training. That had been the last thing she had wanted to do, but she had only agreed because she wanted to spend more time with him.

"Love requires sacrifices!" Jenny had said to herself then.

Although she had been resigned to the fact that she was no longer in her team, and that she had to watch all the practices of Brad's team, she had refused to travel with them and attend their competitions. Later she had been berating herself for missing them.

"It must have been then that he started to get intimate with Amanda, she never missed a competition!" Jenny had been repeating to herself angrily.

And then, when Elizabeth had invited her to travel together to Europe, Jenny had refused because she wanted to spend the summer with him. Elizabeth had gone shortly after graduation, and Jenny had been left alone. It had been too late to join her.

I gave up so many things to be with him! How could he dump me for that blonde floozy? Jackass, moron, idiot!

While she was thinking angrily about him, she wasn't looking where she stepped. Unexpectedly, she stumbled on her left foot and lost her balance. She grabbed the nearest bush, but the slender branches couldn't withstand her weight and they broke. She fell and started rolling down the hill. She was trying desperately to hold on something, but it wasn't possible – the slope was too steep.

When she finally stopped falling and rolled to a halt, she remained lying on the grass with closed eyes. It was hard for her to breathe. She wondered if she was still alive. But she could hear the chirping of the birds and the rustle of the trees under the breeze. She felt the hard ground beneath her. Sharp pains spread all over her body.

If I were in heaven, it wouldn't hurt so much!

While she was struggling to stand up, something startled her.

1"Are you all right?" She heard a musical male voice somewhere high above her.

She lifted herself to one elbow and turned her head in the direction, the voice had come from. A stranger stood over her and reached out his hand. She stretched out and grasped it, and then rose to her feet with an effort of will.

"Thank you," she said wanly, trying to focus her eyes on the stranger.

He was tall and looked young, about twenty. He had dark, shoulder- length hair and dark eyes that looked almost black. His skin was fair; his features were somehow soft, but masculine at the same time. There was something strange about his clothes, but she couldn't work out what.

"How are you feeling?" he asked, concerned.

"I surely don't have a healthy bone left in my body!"

Anxiety flitted across his face, and it made her feel ashamed.

"I'll be fine . . ." she said quickly.

"You may have a concussion. Do you feel dizzy?"

"No."

"This is good!"

She reached out to the right side of her head and slowly rubbed the place, where she felt a throbbing pain. When she looked at her fingers, she was surprised that there was no blood on them.

Maybe the grass has softened the blow, she thought.

"Can you walk?" the stranger asked.

"I guess so."

His face looked tense and worried. There was something sweet and comforting about his presence.

"Allow me to introduce myself – my name is Christian Weber." He held out his right hand, palm up.

Jenny hesitantly put her hand on his. He bent down slowly, while he was still watching her eyes, and moved her hand to his face. It seemed like he was going to kiss her hand, but her bewildered gaze stopped him. He stood back, still holding her hand.

She stared at him in surprise, not knowing what to do.

"I . . . am Jennifer Evans . . . my friends call me Jenny," she said hesitantly.

"It is nice to meet you, Miss Evans!"

"You can call me Jenny."

"I beg your pardon! You can call me Chris, if you'd like to." He dropped her hand.

"Okay."

His exquisite manners seemed quite strange to her. She glanced at his clothes. He wore a white long – sleeved shirt, a black vest and black pants. They seemed quite modest and outdated. He looked and spoke as if he had come from the nineteenth century.

"Where are you from?" she asked.

"I live in a village a few miles away."

She tried to visualize the map of the area she had seen, but she couldn't remember any villages.

Maybe I hit my head too hard.

Suddenly, she remembered that she had seen people dressed like him before.

"Are you Amish?" she asked.

He smiled kindly in response, but didn't say anything.

She stared back at him. If he was Amish, this might explain his strange clothes and behavior. They watched each other without saying a word. He smiled in a friendly way as she studied his face.

"Did you get lost?" he asked.

"No, I'm going to Leavenworth."

"Do you think to walk there?" The surprise in his voice made her feel stupid.

"No, I was driving my car, but I ran out of gas . . . I thought I would get there by tonight by walking through the forest."

"It will take you at least three days to get to Leavenworth," he said calmly.

She looked at him and her mouth fell open.

Three days! She shouted in her head, but she said out loud:

"Are you sure?"

"Yes, I've been there several times."

She continued to stare at him in surprise.

"May I offer to accompany you there?" he asked politely.

The idea of walking alone in the woods for three days terrified her. She didn't like the idea of traveling with a stranger either, but she felt a strange sense of trust at the first sight. There was something very kind in his gallant behavior and his concern about her.

"Well . . . Okay," she said hesitantly.

When she started to walk, she noticed that almost nothing hurt her. She was feeling a sharp pain in her head, but after a while it decreased.

"Where were you going?" she asked uncertainly.

"I was going to the town to buy wax for candles," he answered kindly.

Wax for candles! She tried to hide her surprise when she looked at him.

"Why don't you buy candles?"

"We make them ourselves, but we need wax."

She wondered why they needed candles in the first place.

Perhaps there is no electricity, where they live! She could barely keep from laughing at this thought. She turned her head aside, so he couldn't see her smile. She didn't want him to think she was laughing at him.

"Why are you going to Leavenworth?" he asked.

"I want to visit my aunt. I go there every summer."

He walked in front of her in order to hold back the branches of the bushes, helping her to walk more easily. He walked next to her in the places where the forest wasn't so impenetrable.

"Do you live with your family?" Jenny asked him hesitantly.

"Yes. I live with my mother, my brother and my two sisters."

"Are they . . . like you?"

He hesitated for a moment before answering, "Of course."

"What do you do there?"

"We raise animals and grow plants. We prepare our food, and we take care of many things."

She looked into his face and tried to imagine what his life was. She thought he was too young and attractive to waste his time like that, but it was his choice. Jenny wanted to question him about many things, but she thought it would be rude.

"Are you a student?" he asked.

"No, I graduated recently." She waited for his next question with aversion. She didn't want to discuss her plans, perhaps because she didn't even have any.

"Does anyone know where you are?"

His question surprised her. She wondered why he was asking that, but she answered:

"I left a note for my mother."

They continued walking through the woods. Sometimes he broke the silence, questioning her about her life in Cle Elum. Eventually she asked him about his family. He was good company and the miles passed easily.

3

They had been walking for hours when she felt the fatigue overwhelm her slowly. She felt a dull pain in her legs. She wanted to stop for a while, but she was too proud to admit that she was tired. Jenny had always hated to show weakness.

The sound of running water came from afar. The further they walked, the more clearly they could hear it. She tried to imagine the map, but as with the village, she didn't remember any river in the area.

1"There is a river in front of us," Christian interrupted her thoughts, "We have to swim to the other side."

The thought of swimming after a tiring walk bothered her a little, but there was something else on her mind. She wondered when her mother would understand that something was wrong. She was sure that her mother wouldn't come home until tonight, and would be too tired to call her. The next day she would go back to the hospital and she would be too busy with patients.

Maybe tomorrow at lunchtime she will remember my note and she will try to call me, but my phone is out of range. She'll call Aunt Mary. Then, when I'm not there, they'll panic.

Jenny didn't want to make her relatives worry.

I am such an idiot! She thought angrily, how could I decide to walk through the woods? I hope Mom won't call in the next three days, maybe she'll be too busy at the hospital. When I arrive in Leavenworth, I'll call her!

"Is everything all right?" Christian's quiet voice interrupted her meditation.

"I hope so." She sighed wearily and forced herself to dispel those thoughts.

"Would you like to take a break for a while? I'll look for berries." He didn't wait for her answer and walked away.

Jenny looked behind herself to make sure that Christian couldn't see her. Then she took a few steps to a nearby tree and sat on the grass. Sighing wearily, she leaned her back against the trunk and closed her eyes. Jenny wanted everything to be over now, but she knew they would have to walk for two more days through the forest.

She wondered if she had done the right thing, trusting Christian, but she wasn't sure if she could find the way on her own, and she didn't want to be alone in the woods. She had no other choice but to follow him, and to trust him.

She had to find the strength within herself to swim across the river, and then she and Christian had to find a place to spend the night. The thought that she would have to swim after the exhausting walk, didn't bother her as much as the thought that she would be spending the night in the woods.

Suddenly, a strange sound from the forest interrupted her thoughts, startling her. She opened her eyes and looked into the woods, but at first she didn't see anything. The sound reached her again, this time it was louder and clearer. It sounded like the growl of an animal.

She rose to her feet and stared into the woods. Something dark and huge was moving toward her. The branches of the trees bent and crackled under its weight. Whatever it was, it was enormous.

She saw two, glowing eyes coming closer toward her. The animal took a few more steps and came out of the shade of the trees. When she saw it, her mouth fell open. She couldn't believe her eyes.

It was a black wolf, bigger than a horse. Its blood red eyes looked straight at her; its big teeth bared. Jenny stood motionless, frozen with shock.

Suddenly, the tree branches behind the wolf stirred and wrapped around its back legs. Tree roots came from the ground beneath, capturing its front legs and body. With a furious growl, the animal tried to free itself. Some branches crackled, but didn't break.

Someone grabbed Jenny's arm and began dragging her away.

"Run!" She heard a familiar voice and obeyed immediately.

As she ran, she heard the crackling branches and furious growling behind her. The sound was coming closer and closer.

They reached the edge of the cliff and Jenny slowed down, but Christian didn't release her hand.

"Jump!" he commanded.

She took a few more steps and jumped. She could see the river about twenty yards away, far below them. With a gasp, Jenny clenched her hands and feet to her body instinctively.

When they hit the cold water, Jenny felt a sharp pain, as if dozens of knives were jabbing into her body.

A strong hand pulled her to the surface. Jenny took a deep breath desperately and tried to swim.

"Don't move!" Christian's arm held her firmly to his body.

Turning her head, Jenny looked over his shoulder. She saw the huge black wolf, standing at the cliff edge, watching them from above. The river bore them forward with a furious force.

*****

Christian's movements were precise and measured. He raked the burning branches carefully with a long stick. His face looked calm and unperturbed.

It was dark outside. An owl was screaming somewhere in the distance, pearcing the murmur of the river.

Jenny stared at him with unseeing eyes. She started to slowly warm up and to come back to herself.

She had no idea how long the river had tumbled them, or how they had managed to reach the shore. She remembered vaguely that he had taken her in a cave, but she didn't remember how he had lit a fire.

"What was that?" That was the first sentence, she managed to work out as she was thinking about the huge wolf.

Christian slowly raised his eyes from the fire and looked at her.

"People call them werewolves," he replied calmly.

"What?" She gawked at him.

He smiled at her. "They have ancient origins, from the time when the humanity first emerged. Werewolves are ancestors of the wolves we know today."

"How is that possible? I mean . . . werewolves don't exist!" She stared at him in disbelief.

"People think that," he said.

She continued watching him without knowing what to say. She was trying to remember the legends about werewolves she had heard.

"Can it turn into a man?" she asked under her breath.

"No," he answered, amused, "They are animals, but they are smarter and more bloodthirsty than ordinary wolves."

She shuddered when she remembered the black animal with blood red eyes and huge fangs.

"Why did it attack us?"

"Because it hates people. Many years ago, people began to hunt in their territories and forced them to retreat further into the mountains. Sometimes there isn't enough food for them and they leave their habitats."

"Why don't people don't know that there are werewolves in these forests?" she asked, terrified.

"The majority of them don't survive after they come across a werewolf. Others can't tell anybody, because they don't remember."

" Don't remember?" She couldn't believe it was possible.

"Would you like to remember it?" he asked calmly.

"I will never forget it!" she said confidently.

He threw her a strange look and then stared into the fire as if he was pondering something.

"What are we going to do now?" she asked.

"We don't need to do anything," he replied calmly. "It will need time to cross the river, and it is afraid of fire."

Jenny stared silently into the fire, remembering again and again its bloody eyes and bared teeth.

"Do you have any dry clothes? I noticed that your bag is made of a waterproof fabric."

Jenny glanced around. Her backpack was propped up against the wall of the cave. He must have taken it from her back, but she didn't remember.

Christian stood up with one smooth motion.

"I'm going out for a while and you can change your clothes." He turned and went out quickly, disappearing into the darkness.

She reached out for her backpack and slowly began to pull out some clothes. They were dry, as Christian had suggested. Jenny started changing her clothes automatically. Then, she sat again in front of the fire and stared at the burning embers.

"I brought you something for dinner."

She heard his voice and turned to the cave entrance.

He approached her, holding something. She held out her hands with palms up, and he dropped what he was holding. They were wild apples – small and light green.

"I hope soon we will be able to eat some real food," he said, sitting next to her.

She chewed them slowly without paying attention to their sour taste. When she finished eating, she stared back at him.

"Why don't you try to get some sleep? You had a hard day." He smiled warmly.

"I could never fall asleep!" The memory of the werewolf resurfaced in her mind again and again.

"You will," Christian said faintly.

Suddenly, she felt terribly tired. Her eyelids felt heavy and a hot wave splashed all over her body. It was hard to keep her eyes open. She felt her body tilt slowly and her head rest on his shoulder. The sounds of the forest and the light of the fire faded away; darkness and silence surrounded her.

4

Jenny slowly opened her eyes and found herself surrounded by strange, gray walls. They didn't resemble the bright walls in her room, which were covered with posters of Linkin' Park. In the distance, she could hear the sounds of running water and the chirping of birds. She tried to stand up, but the slightest movement caused her too much pain. She sank back with a groan.

Jenny slowly began remembering the recent events of her life. She remembered how she had been lying on the couch in the living room when she got the idea to leave Cle Elum. She remembered driving down the abandoned road until she ran out of fuel; making the decision to go into the forest alone where she met a strange young man, and walking with him through the woods. And then . . .

Oh, God! She remembered the huge wolf with bloodthirsty eyes coming out of the forest.

At first she thought it was all a dream, none of those events could ever have happened. Everything seemed like a nightmare.

She tried to lie on her side and put her hands under the pillow, but there was no pillow beneath her head. Her gaze fell on the fireplace, where only ashes were left.

She realized she was lying on the hard stone floor in a cave and someone had covered her with a black vest.

It was true! Ouch! This time she managed to sit with a huge effort of will. At that moment, everything hurt her.

1"Did you sleep well?" She heard a friendly voice and turned her head to the cave entrance.

Christian! Only now she remembered his name.

He was wearing only a shirt and pant, his vest was still on her back. He sat opposite her and stared anxiously at her face.

"How do you feel?" he asked concerned.

"I thought all this was a nightmare!" she admitted.

"Don't worry about it, I won't let anything bad happen to you."

She glanced at his slim body and wondered how he would be able to save her if the werewolf attacked them again. Then, she remembered that the river had tumbled them with a furious force, but somehow he had managed to get out of the water and help her. She wondered how come the water hadn't smashed them both against the rocks.

Maybe he's stronger than he looks.

"Would you like some wild apples for breakfast?" he asked.

"No, thanks." She remembered their quite sour taste from last night.

"I have a plan," he said. "If we leave now, we will be in my village by evening. Tomorrow we can take horses and get to Leavenworth much faster than if we travel on foot."

"That sounds good ..." Jenny replied, . . . But it's hardly possible.

The werewolf can find and tear us into pieces before we reach the village. I hope I'd die fast, and not feel anything.

She didn't want to dispirit him, so she refrained from sharing her thoughts.

"Can you ride?" he asked, concerned, as if it was the most important thing at that moment.

"Yeah..." Jenny remembered the time when she was fifteen years old. She had been working for almost a year to save enough money for horseback riding lessons. After a few months, however, she had gaven up horseback riding and had decided to take up something else.

She tried to bend her legs to stand up, but this effort caused her pain. She bent her head down, not wanting him to see the expression on her face.

"Do you need some help?" he asked.

While she was wondering how to answer, he approached her for a split second. He stretched his arms down and held her under her arms. Then he lifted her effortlessly, standing her on her feet.

"Thanks," Jenny said sheepishly.

"Can you walk?" he asked anxiously.

"Yes," she replied, even though she didn't believe herself.

She looked around. Her clothes had been scattered on the floor of the cave and her backpack had been thrown a few feet from her. Before she made a single move, Christian took a step, bent down, and started picking up her clothes and putting them in her backpack.

"Let me ..." she began uncomfortably, but he had finished. She wasn't used to being taken care of.

Christian slung her backpack over his shoulder, took his vest and offered her his free hand.

"Shall we go?" he asked.

She took his hand and walked a tentative few steps to the cave entrance. She felt stabbing pains throughout her entire body.

She remembered something from a year ago when she used to practice relay running in Cle Elum. Her coach had advised her to take two aspirin after training to avoid muscle fever the next day.

I can only dream of an aspirin in this wild place, she thought ruefully.

Blinded by the bright light outside the cave, she narrowed her eyes but kept walking. When her eyes adjusted to the light, Jenny noticed she and Christian were in a large meadow with beautiful flowers in different colors. They could hear the murmur of the water from behind.

After walking for a while, Jenny felt relieved that nothing hurt her. I don't have muscle strain. I must just have been stiff after lying on the hard stone floor.

She asked Christian for her backpack, and he handed it to her without saying a word.

Jenny looked around, admiring the beauty of nature. The forest wasn't very dense. Huge trees rose majestically above them. Christian walked without looking around, as if he wasn't impressed by the beautiful sight.

Maybe he has been here before.

"Do you go to Cle Elum often?" she asked him.

"Not really, I usually go to North Bend."

North Bend was far from Cle Elum and Leavenworth. She tried again to imagine the map of the area, and wondered how he could walk such a great distance.

"Do you go there alone?" she asked.

"Yes. Rarely does anyone from my family accompany me."

"Aren't you afraid of walking alone in the woods?"

He smiled widely, revealing his perfect, white teeth.

"I have nothing to fear," he said, amused.

"What about . . . the werewolves?" Jenny shuddered at the memory.

"They don't attack us. People are easier prey for them."

Jenny wondered what he was trying to say. He sounded as if he didn't consider himself a human. She stared at him for a moment. He appeared to be a young, attractive male with gallant manners. He was dressed strangely and walked effortlessly in the woods, but he was definitely a man, she surmised.

The two of them continued walking. Rarely did either of them break the silence. Jenny was too stressed to speak. She expected the werewolf to rush out of the forest and attack them again at any moment.

*****

After several hours of walking, they approached some bushes upon which grew wild raspberries.

"Are you hungry?" Christian asked.

She nodded.

"We could rest for a while. Some elder is growing nearby, don't eat it– it is poisonous."

"Okay," Jenny said.

He walked into the woods, leaving her alone.

Maybe it doesn't matter... if the elder doesn't kill me, the werewolf will do the rest. She smiled sarcastically. She wondered how she could smile while she was thinking about death.

Maybe I'm going crazy! She was relieved that Christian couldn't see her at this moment.

Jenny started picking some raspberries. She expected them to be sour, but they were more delicious than those she had eaten before.

Maybe it's my only meal for the day... or the last one. She giggled nervously, but continued eating.

She wondered how Christian could be so calm, showing no fear so far, and how he and his relatives could live in the forest when they knew about the existence of the werewolves.

Maybe they are so used to their attacks that they have found a way to handle it... Oh, I am really going crazy! It's impossible to survive... and yet we are still alive!

She hoped that they would survive if it attacked them again. She was lost in her thoughts until something startled her.

Suddenly, she heard a muffled growl and turned back quickly. At first, what she saw surprised her. A huge brown bear stood a few yards away, breathing heavily. It looked angrily at her. It took a second for Jenny to realize that she was in big trouble.

The bear rushed toward her, growling furiously.

Oh, no! Jenny closed her eyes. She stood frozen, waiting for the animal to attack and tear her into pieces.

Nothing happened and Jenny opened her eyes. Her look fell on Christian's back, who stood one step ahead of her. The bear looked back at him. The three of them stood there without anyone moving. Jenny's heart was beating rapidly, and it was hard for her to breathe.

Christian stood motionlessly, staring intently at the bear. The huge animal looked blankly into his eyes without moving an inch, as if it were paralyzed. Jenny looked at Christian's face. His dark eyes now looked black and shone with a strange glow, like two burning embers. There was something sinister and unhuman in his eyes. Jenny shuddered. She couldn't understand what was going on.

"Let's go!" Christian said in a firm voice.

Jenny's muscles were stiff from fear, and her legs hardly obeyed her. He took her hand and almost dragged her with him

"We have to hurry, the hypnosis won't work for long!" he warned her.

Jenny stared blankly at him, trying to work out what he was talking about.

He lifted her in his arms and ran through the woods. He ran faster and faster, as if her weight didn't bother him. She didn't resist, and continued staring at his face, not knowing what to say or what to do.

5

1"Let me go, I want to walk." This was the first coherent sentence she managed to say.

He stopped, put her on her feet and looked anxiously at her face. She stood motionlessly against him. Her head was full of questions, and she wondered with which to start.

"What was that?"

"A grizzly bear." His tone was indifferent, as if nothing out of the ordinary had happened.

He began walking and she hurried to keep up.

"Why didn't it kill us?" she asked, still shocked.

"Because I stopped it."

"How?"

"People call it hypnotic suggestion," he answered.

"How did you do it?" she asked, stunned.

"It's just something I can do." He smiled.

She continued staring at him, her head spinning in confusion. She wondered how it was possible for somebody to hypnotize wild animals. She mused over everything that had happened so far.

Suddenly, she remembered something strange that had happened yesterday. She had been so shocked after the werewolf attack that she had forgotten it. But the memory now somehow surfaced in her mind.

Before the werewolf attacked them, tree branches had wrapped around its body and back legs. Afterwards, tree roots had appeared from the ground, and wrapped around its front legs, not letting it move. She had been too terrified to really notice it then. But now she realized that she had never seen such a thing in her life.

Jenny tried to find a logical explanation for what had happened, but she couldn't.

"Do you remember how the branches wrapped around . . . the feet . . . of the werewolf?" she stammered.

Christian nodded.

"How was that possible?"

"I made them move."

What? She stared at him, and her mouth fell open.

He smiled kindly.

"How did you do it?" She couldn't hide the amazement in her voice.

"I can interact with nature," he replied with a calm tone. "The trees are alive, the flowers also; everything around us is alive."

She kept staring at him. His dark eyes were unreadable. They showed no thought and no feeling.

She pondered his words, walking in silence.

She realized that she didn't know him well. When she met him the first time, his bizarre clothes and manners had caught her attention. She thought he was Amish, although he didn't confirm it. A few hours later he made the branches and the roots of trees move in an inexplicable way. The next day he had stopped a grizzly bear attack with only a gaze, and afterwards he had run with her in his arms for miles, and he wasn't even tired.

He walked slowly next to her now, looking straight ahead into the forest.

"Who are you?" she couldn't stop herself asking.

"That's not the right question," he replied.

"What is the right one?"

"Maybe you'll work it out soon."

"Please, tell me!" She insisted.

"The right question is what are you," he said faintly.

She stopped abruptly and looked at him. His smile was warm, but his eyes were serious.

What are you? What else could he be, but a man with strange abilities? Anxiety flitted through her.

He looked calm, but his smile evaporated under her astonished gaze.

"I am a magician," he said. "People call me, and others like me, witches."

A warm wave flowed slowly through her body, and her anxiety and astonishment disappeared. She looked at him, trying to understand what he had just told her.

Scenes from movies passed through her mind. They usually portrayed witches as old, ugly women who cast spells. Some of them had black cats. Others could live forever, if they ate the heart of a star or something like that.

The absurdity of all that she had seen and heard made her laugh.

"Witches?" she said, still laughing.

"I am glad that this amuses you so much," Christian smiled, but his tone was serious.

"Witches!"

She examined him carefully. He didn't look embarrassed under her gaze. He was very nice and looked like an ordinary young man. There was nothing strange in his appearance, except his clothes that made him look like a man out of time.

"People don't know about us. They have myths and legends, but they hardly meet the truth," he said.

"Didn't you say that you were Amish when we met?" She asked.

"No, you presumed it and I didn't deny it."

"Why?"

"It is more convenient for us if people think that we're Amish. It is easier for them to accept our odd lifestyle."

"Didn't you say that people don't know about you?"

"They know about our existence, but they don't know what our true nature is. They think we're Amish, or weirdos."

"Does it mean that Amish are witches and magicians?"

He burst out laughing.

"No, they are just people!"

"What are the differences between you and people?"

"We have abilities that people call paranormal, or supernatural, but they are something usual for us. We are a different species. We are stronger and faster, and we aren't as vulnerable as they are."

"What will happen if somebody finds out the truth about you?" she asked.

"Nothing good. People don't like those who are different from them. When they come across something strange, they try to understand it better and, control it. But they can't control us. So they will try to destroy us."

Jenny trembled. "Maybe they won't . . . destroy you," she stammered.

"The facts of history are quite clear. Many people were burned alive because they were alleged to be witches in the Middle Ages. Most of them were innocent people."

"What about the rest of them?" She stared at him with unseeing eyes, terrified by the thought of the horror and the pain that all those people must have felt, burned at the stake.

"A few of them were witches who surrendered voluntarily."

"Why did they do it?"

"Witches don't use their abilities in front of people. Besides, they try to live without hurting anyone. Each of us hides the truth of our existence. They had sacrificed their lives to save other witches."

Jenny was terrified by all that, and she didn't know what to say. Rarely had she remained silent in her life before. It was happening continuously since she met him.

He began walking slowly and she followed him. They walked in silence without looking at each other.

A thought bothered her. He had told her that witches don't reveal their abilities in front of people, but he had revealed some of his abilities to her. She wondered what would happen afterwards.

"You told me that you are a magician, aren't you afraid that I may tell someone?" she asked him warily.

"I believe that you won't tell anyone." He half smiled at her.

Obviously he trusts me, she thought fondly.

She mused over everything that had happened so far, until she remembered that he had run with her in his arms for a few miles.

"Aren't you tired after you carried me for so long?" she asked.

"Not at all. I told you that we are stronger than people."

"How much stronger?"

"It's hard to say."

"What other abilities do you have?"

He didn't answer, his expression was tense.

"You don't want to tell me?" she asked.

"I'll show you . . . if it is necessary."

She shuddered at the memory of the animals that had attacked them. Then she remembered something he had said that morning: "I have nothing to fear." She realized that it was true. Obviously, he could deal with wild beasts, and he could move pretty fast in the woods, without getting lost.

She remembered that when the werewolf had shown up, Christian wasn't there and she was alone. Later, when the bear appeared, she was alone again. Actually, they had attacked her, not him. He had used his abilities to help her – not to help himself. Perhaps they wouldn't have attacked him or he would have run away from them. She realized that he had saved her life.

"Thank you," she whispered.

"For what?" he asked.

"For saving my life . . . twice."

He reached out and put his arm around her shoulders. Her heart pounded and a strange, pleasant wave spread all over her body. Neither his touch, nor the proximity of his body had affected her this way so far.

"I couldn't help myself," he said.

"Why . . . I mean, you used your abilities and revealed yourself to me?"

"I would never forgive myself if I had let anything bad happened to a young lady like you."

Young lady? No one had ever called her so, but he was nothing like the boys, she knew. She wondered if he was a boy, although he looked so young.

"How old are you?" she asked.

"I am very old." He dropped his arm off her shoulders.

She looked at him skeptically.

"That's impossible!" she insisted.

"Age is just a meaningless figure."

She didn't push him anymore. It was obvious he didn't want to tell her.

"What are we going to do now?" she asked.

"We'll go to my family. Tomorrow I'll take you to Leavenworth."

"Are they also... witches?"

"Of course."

"How . . . will they accept me?" she asked concerned.

"Don't worry, everything will be fine," he smiled encouragingly, "Witches don't hurt people."

"I'm glad to hear it."

She thought about the myths and legends that she had been told about witches, and she remembered something.

"Can you do magic?" she asked.

"No, I live in magic every day," he laughed.

"What do you mean?"

"You'll see!"

6

They walked for hours. Jenny pondered all the things he had said. She was amazed by the secret he had revealed to her. She wondered what the village of witches would look like, and she worried how his family would react when they met her.

He walked next to her, occasionally holding her hand and helping her along. She wanted not to think of anything, just to enjoy his company.

Christian suggested they could stop to take a rest. She was relieved, but tried to hide it from him. She didn't want him to think she was weak.

She sat next to the nearest tree and leaned back on the trunk. Christian sat nearby and looked far away toward the forest. She looked at his gentle, flawless face.

Jenny wanted to know everything about him. She wanted to ask him so many questions, but she thought they might sound stupid.

He smiled kindly, noticing her looking at him.

1"Have you always lived in the village in the woods?" she asked hesitantly.

"No, I've travelled to many places, and lived in many towns."

"What do you do when you live in town?"

"I try to mix with people. I listen to music, I watch movies and I read books."

She felt a strange sense of relief, thinking that maybe he wasn't so different than her after all.

"Who are your favorite musicians?" she asked.

"Beethoven. I like his composition 'Fur Elise' very much."

"Don't you like modern music?"

"Not really, it sounds like a noise."

She burst out laughing.

"Have you ever gone into a nightclub?" She knew it was silly to ask, but the question escaped her lips all the same.

"Yes . . . I used to go into jazz clubs to dance fast swing some years ago. I miss the good old times," he sighed.

She giggled when she tried to imagine him dancing swing. Then she remembered the ease with which he moved through the forest.

Maybe he is a good dancer, she thought, amused.

"Can you dance?" he asked.

"Yes, but I can't dance swing. I can dance only Latin – American dances.

"I can teach you. I'd like to go out to dance with you someday," he said, smiling.

His words surprised her. She hadn't ever thought that she could one day go to a club with a magician.

"That would be great!" she said.

"What is your favorite romance movie?" he asked.

She hesitated before answering. "'Kate and Leopold'. Have you ever watched it?"

"Yes. I like it . . .

Suddenly, Christian jerked his head around and looked somewhere far ahead. There was a large meadow, surrounded by trees in front of them. She tried to follow his gaze, but at first she didn't see anything. Christian stood up quickly, and she did the same.

Looking at the forest, she noticed that something dark was moving through the trees. It was coming closer and closer until it came out to the lawn.

Oh, no! Not again!

A huge black wolf stood about forty yards away.

Jenny shuddered, but this time she didn't freeze with horror. She looked at Christian, expecting him to do something.

"Stay behind me!" He took a step forward.

He slowly lifted his hands with palms up, as if he was holding something huge. Jenny stared curiously, wondering what he was doing.

She thought the air in front of them started moving. When she gave a second look, she saw that the air masses were moving in a circle. A whirlwind had been formed about ten yards in front of them, and it grew larger and larger. It was funnel-shaped and rose up high. Jenny realized that it was a tornado created by Christian. She gasped and her mouth fell open.

The tornado began moving fast towards the werewolf, which stepped back. It growled angrily and jumped back into the woods. They could hear the sound of breaking branches, as the werewolf ran away.

Jenny stared at the tornado in amazement. The air movement made tree branches sway and creak. Some leaves were caught up in the whirlwind. It tossed them around in circles and threw them into the air.

After a while, the tornado began to gradually lose power. The air movement grew slower and slower until it finally stopped. The trees became silent and the leaves began to fall to the ground.

Jenny was fascinated by the sight.

"How did you do that?"

"It's called telekinesis. I can move almost anything that exists."

He took her hand and they walked forward, passing across the lawn.

"If it attacks us again . . . can you . . . do it again?" Jenny stuttered.

"It won't attack us. It is still running away."

"Why didn't you do that the first time it attacked us?"

"Because there was no time. I had to act quickly."

"What happens when it comes to the village?"

Christian smiled. "It never comes there. And if it's imprudent enough to do so, I will send lightning right through it."

"Can you?" Jenny gasped at the thought that Christian could create and control lightning.

He nodded.

"How?" Jenny tried to remember what she was taught in physics, but her mind was blocked.

"Lightning is a static discharge, that occurs when there is friction between heterogeneous materials. If anyone can make the protons and neutrons in the atmosphere move quickly, the temperature rises very high and then an electrical charge occurs."

She wasn't sure that she understood what he had just said, but obviously, a person who ruled telekinesis could cause strange phenomena, and create disasters around them.

"Can you cause a storm?" she asked.

"Storms are formed by strong winds. The wind is just a flow of air." He said it as if it was the simplest and the easiest thing a person could do.

She wondered what other events he could cause. She thought that maybe he could create an earthquake by making the earth stratum move. Perhaps the same way he could make a volcano erupt. She shuddered at the thought.

"Can you light a fire with this ability?" she asked.

"Yes, but it takes time."

"Can you burn down the forest?"

"Yes, but I shouldn't. Trees are my friends."

"You have very strange friends," she said.

"I live in peace and harmony with nature."

"What about animals?"

"They are also my friends. I can make a wild cougar play with me like a little kitten."

She tried to imagine it, but the picture in her head was replaced by another, terrifying view.

"If you can hypnotize animals, why didn't you hypnotize the werewolf when it attacked us the first time?"

"It's different than the other animals. The hypnosis doesn't work."

"Do the other witches have abilities like yours?"

"Not really. We are all different. Nobody has my ability to move things, but some have abilities that I don't have. Others have abilities like mine, but they are much better than me."

"What do you mean, they're better than you?" she asked.

"My mother has the most powerful ability to hypnotize."

"More powerful even than yours?" Jenny couldn't imagine someone more powerful than Christian.

"Yes. She could make a person think that they are a vegetable, and she could make them vegetate for the rest of their lives."

Jenny trembled. Her reaction made him smile.

"She has never done it, I'm just saying that she can."

"What abilities do your siblings have?"

"My brother, Stephane, can influence a particular center of the brain, so no one can see him. This means that he can be invisible. When we were kids, he tried to hide from me using this ability."

"Couldn't he hide from you?" Jenny smiled at the thought of the game, they were playing.

"No, of course not. Although I didn't see him, I felt his presence. I have always known exactly where he was. He can hide from people only."

"How did you feel his presence?"

"We are more sensitive, and we feel the things around us differently, than people do."

"What about your sisters?" she asked.

"The younger of them – Hannah can see the near future, although she has many other abilities, and Elena . . . she's a big deal."

Jenny wondered what he was talking about, and why he didn't want to tell her about Elena, but she decided not to insist.

"Do all the witches live far away from people?" Jenny asked.

"No, some of them choose to live among people.

"What do they do?"

"They study, or work. They have a completely inconspicuous lifestyle."

"Why . . . I mean, you could rule the world thanks to these abilities."

He laughed.

"We don't need such a responsibility. The ambition of power is more typical for people than for us. When they are young, they want to achieve something significant in their lives. They fight for money, power or fame. It seems like their self-esteem depends on the money they have made and the things they own. When you have lived ages in this world, you gain more wisdom and you realize that love is probably the only thing that's worth fighting for."

She wondered for a while what he had meant when he said "when you have lived ages", but she didn't pay much attention to it. She was too stunned by everything he had told her.

Suddenly, another though surfaced in her mind. She wondered if he had a girlfriend. She felt a strange sadness when she thought that maybe another girl had observed the amazing things that he was capable of. If that girl was a witch like him, she probably wouldn't even find the things he did amazing. Jenny wondered why she was thinking about these things until she recognized the feeling that had flooded through her – it was jealousy. It was very strange. She had only known him for only two days.

"What do you think about everything I've said so far?" His question interrupted her thoughts.

"I think it's amazing."

"Aren't you afraid of me now, knowing all of this?" he asked seriously.

She looked at him, surprised.

"Should I be afraid of you?"

"No, but it is a logical human reaction."

"You saved my life twice, and you have taken care of me all this time. I can never repay you for that." she sighed.

"It is not necessary," he smiled.

"Have you ever read any esoteric books?" she asked.

"Yes, why do you ask?"

"People in the East believe that when someone has been rescued, their lives belong to their savior. My life belongs to you!" She wanted to know how her words had affected him, so she watched him carefully. His eyes were warm.

"Do you really believe that?" He smiled.

"Yes..." she said quietly. And I think you are phenomenal!

7

They had been walking for several miles when he slowed down. Jenny felt as though she was on her last legs.1

"The village is very close behind those trees," he said.

Jenny looked up, but she didn't see anything. She was relieved that they had almost arrived. She wasn't sure if she could handle a few more days in the woods.

She looked around, the sun wasn't shining brightly anymore. Maybe it will get dark soon, she thought.

"Somebody is coming." Christian quickened his pace.

Jenny noticed several figures moving swiftly among the trees. While she was looking at them, she wasn't careful where she stepped. She tripped on something and flew straight forward. What the hell?

Three figures approached her while she was still on her hands and knees. The first of them was a beautiful young woman, wearing a long, dark green dress. She had black waist-length hair. Her eyes were a dark brown color and gave her an exotic look.

A young man, who looked much like Christian, stood to her right, and a beautiful blonde girl to her left.

Christian held out his hand to Jenny and she caught it. While she was trying to stand up, she was still looking at the strange woman. Her dark eyes flashed on her beautiful face.

"Hello, mother," Christian said respectfully, leaning forward in a slight bow.

Mother? Jenny stared at the stranger and her mouth fell open.

The woman in front of her didn't look more than twenty years old. She could be anything, but not Christian's mother.

"Hello, Christian," she said coldly.

She turned her back on them and walked quickly away, without paying attention to Jenny's gaze. Nobody followed. The boy and the girl stood still, looking at Christian.

"This is my sister, Hannah," Christian told Jenny.

The blonde girl caught her dress on both sides and bowed forward, smiling in a friendly way.

Jenny wasn't sure what to do.

"This is my brother, Stephane," Christian continued.

The young man bent his head slowly.

"It's nice to meet you," he said.

"Nice to meet you, too." Jenny smiled.

"That's Jenny," Christian introduced her, "She needed my help, so I brought her here."

"Of course," Stephane said calmly.

"The woman who left is our mother, Hilda," Christian turned to Jenny, "I apologize for her behavior."

"It's all right." Jenny wasn't sure what had happened and why their mother had left like that.

"She doesn't approve of us bringing people here, but you can stay as long as you need to," Stephane told her. His voice was calm, his tone soothing.

"Thanks," Jenny replied. She thought that Stephane was a gentleman like Christian.

"Where is Elena?" Christian asked his siblings.

"She is making dinner at home," Hannah said.

Jenny remembered that Elena was his other sister, recalling what he had said about his family.

Stephane and Hannah parted. Christian held Jenny's hand and led her forward. His siblings followed them.

Jenny had been trying to imagine the village of the witches ever since Christian had revealed the truth about himself, but what she saw now was nothing like what she had imagined. A few ordinary wooden houses were located at a great distance from one another. There were trees with dense crowns around them. The wooden walls of the houses almost blended with the trunks of trees, so the houses were hardly noticeable. The village seemed quite deserted, though some voices could be heard from the open windows.

It looks like a nineteenth century village from the Wild West, Jenny thought. She wondered what the other residents in the village looked like. As they walked, they met only one man who nodded in greeting. Jenny replied with the same. This man looked young and was dressed like Christian and Stephane.

"That's our house," Christian said when they stopped in front of a wooden house on two floors.

He opened the door and let Jenny go in first. They entered a long corridor, leading to a wooden staircase. The smell of something delicious was floating from one of the rooms. The door opened and a young girl who looked a lot like Hannah came out. The sleeves of her dress were rolled up to the elbows and she was wearing an apron with embroidered flowers on it.

"This is my sister, Elena," Christian said, then he turned to Elena, "This is Jenny."

Elena didn't seem surprised by the appearance of the unknown girl. Actually, none of them seemed surprised.

Maybe Hannah has already seen us coming with her ability to predict the future, Jenny thought.

Elena's face looked serious and tense. Unlike Hannah, she didn't bow to Jenny, and only looked at her for a split- second.

"Let me show you the guest room." Christian led Jenny toward the stairs.

When they passed Elena, Jenny thought that she threw a strange look to Christian. She remembered him, saying that Elena was a big deal. Jenny wondered what the relation between them was like. She felt that Elena didn't approve of Christian's decision to bring her to their house.

The room into which he led her was very cozy. There was a large wooden bed, covered with a dark red coverlet with beautiful ornaments on it. The other furniture was also wooden and looked as if it was handmade. The floor was covered with a beautiful rug, made of brown and golden threads. Jenny had never seen one like that before. There was also a large mirror with a beautiful wooden frame on the wall. The lace curtains were very beautiful, and there was another pair of dark red curtains. They were the same color as the coverlet. The gas lamp on the bedside table wasn't burning yet.

"My room is opposite yours. If you need anything, just call me," Christian said.

"I would like to take a shower." Jenny felt foolish and regretted saying these words.

Maybe there is hardly such a thing as a shower, she thought.

"We can do something about that." Christian left the room, closing the door behind him.

Jenny threw her backpack on the floor and plopped down in the only chair in the room. She wondered if there was a bathroom in the house.

Maybe they trek to some mountain stream to take a bath. That thought almost cheered her up. She took off her shoes, and threw herself on the bed with her face down. It was harder than she expected, but it was comfortable.

Well, at least they don't live in a cave. Thank God!

She wondered why they lived in this primitive way without any amenities. She thought they could make a lot of money thanks to their abilities, and they could live much better than ordinary people did.

Perhaps, only here they can live without hiding their abilities and without worrying that someone will find out the truth about them. She was sure they could use their abilities to make living in this place easier. She wanted to see how they did it, but she didn't believe that anyone but Christian would reveal anything to her.

Jenny had no idea how long she had lain there when someone knocked on the door.

"Come in," she said wearily.

"Come with me!"

Jenny heard Hannah's musical voice and forced herself up from the bed.

Hannah stood in the doorway and waited for her. Jenny reached for one of her shoes.

"You don't need them," Hannah smiled.

Jenny got up and went after her. Hannah took her through some of the rooms, then she opened the door and let her go in first.

There was a huge white clawfoot bathtub in the middle of the room. It looked as if it was from another era. There were many small glass bottles around the bathtub. Jenny's attention was drawn to a big, stone fireplace in which logs glowed. There were many candles shining all around the room. They filled the air with a pleasant scent.

"Do you need some help?" Hannah asked.

"No, thank you," Jenny said.

Hannah went out quickly and closed the door behind her. Jenny began to strip off her clothes and threw them on the floor. When she got to the bathtub, she carefully dipped her hand in. The water was neither too hot, nor too cold. Sighing wearily, she sat back in the bathtub and leaned her head on the edge. She wanted to stay like that forever.

When Jenny was ready, she gathered her clothes from the floor, and went into her room, wrapped in a large towel. There was something different that caught her attention. A beautiful long dress with long sleeves had been laid on the bed. It was dark blue with silver-gray ornaments around the neckline.

Maybe Hannah has left it, Jenny thought.

She put it on. It looked like the dresses that women wore many centuries ago. She had noticed that everybody in Christian's family wore clothes that seemed outdated. Jenny wondered why they were dressed like that and why their house was furnished with antique furniture.

Perhaps they are nostalgic.

She took her brush out from the backpack and began brushing her hair. This wasn't an easy task. The last time she had done it, she was still in Cle Elum.

When she finished, she walked slowly to the large mirror and gasped when she saw her reflection. There was something different about her. Her eyes weren't red anymore, and they were shining with a steel-gray luster. Her skin had got a slight tan, and her cheeks were a delicious pink color. The dark blue dress looked perfect against her skin and her eyes. She thought she looked beautiful for the first time in recent weeks.

She tied part of her hair and left the rest to fall freely over her shoulders. Her ginger hair looked very well in contrast with the blue dress and the silver stripes. When she looked for the last time in the mirror, she was satisfied. Jenny looked almost like Christian's sisters and she was as beautiful as them.

When she left the room, she wasn't sure where to go, so she knocked on Christian's door.

"Come in," She heard his voice as if it came from afar.

She opened the door and saw him standing in front of the open window. The wind blew from outside and ruffled his hair. He turned around and his eyes widened when he saw her. He remained motionless for a moment, and then he came closer to her.

"You're gorgeous!" he said.

"Thank you!" She bowed her head and felt her cheeks start to burn. Was she blushing? This had never happened in her life before.

"Dinner should be ready." Christian held out his right hand and she took it. He led her down the stairs.

"You have a very beautiful house!" Jenny exclaimed.

"Stephane and I made it with our own hands. We also made the furniture."

Jenny wondered how all of this could have been made by only the two of them.

"Did it take a lot of time?" she asked.

"No, only two days," he smiled.

Jenny thought that if they were people, they would need years to do it. She wondered in what other areas witches excelled over people. At that moment Christian led her into the room where they would dine.

Maybe they excel over them in everything! She saw the table, covered with a plenty of food.

The dining room was large, and there were beautiful paintings of landscapes on the walls. The long table was located right in the middle and there were beautiful wooden chairs with high backs around it. A huge chandelier with dozens of candles lit the entire room. The atmosphere was very cozy. The rest of the family was already seated, but no one was eating. Christian accompanied Jenny to an empty chair and pulled it back so she could sit.

"Thank you," she said.

Christian walked around and sat on the other side of the table.

Hilda sat at the left end of the table. She looked magnificent, like a queen, sitting on her throne. Stephane and Christian sat on the right side of the table. Elena, Hannah and Jenny sat on the left. There was a large wooden chair at the right end of the table that looked like a throne, but it was empty. Jenny wondered where their father was, but she decided it was better not to ask. When Christian had been talking about his family, he had never mentioned his father. She thought that maybe he had left them, or he was dead.

All of them ate slowly and silently. The food was delicious. Jenny tried not to pounce on the food greedily, but it wasn't easy. She had eaten only forest fruits in recent days, and she had been starving. Nobody looked at her. Only Christian looked up sometimes and their eyes met.

She tried to examine their faces discreetly. Stephane looked much like Christian, but his hair was shorter, and his features were a little more rough. It was hard to determine who was the elder of the two. They looked as if they were the same age.

Elena had long light-brown hair and blue eyes. She resembled Hannah very much, but Hannah's features were more soft. Jenny had thought initially that Elena and Hannah weren't much like their brothers, but then she noticed the similarities between the four. They all had gentle and beautiful faces. Every one of them seemed very young, as if they were between eighteen and twenty years old. It was impossible for her to determine how old they really were.

Jenny glanced at Hilda. She was one of the most beautiful women she had seen. Her fair skin looked as if it was shining; her thick black hair was gorgeous. Her eyes were very dark, like Christian's, and they appeared black.

"Thank you for the dinner," Jenny whispered.

Hilda slowly raised her head and looked at Jenny.

"You are welcome," she replied.

Christian asked Jenny if she wanted more bread. She nodded.

The plate with bread, placed in the center of the table, suddenly moved as if someone had pushed it, and it stopped in front of Jenny. She looked startled, not knowing what to do, until Christian took a slice of bread and handed it to her.

"Thanks," Jenny muttered.

Hilda glared angrily Christian, and then her gaze shifted to Jenny.

"She already knows," he said, as if he were apologizing for something.

Jenny realized that he was talking about the fact she knew the truth about them.

"I will not tell anyone." She looked at Hilda and regretted doing it at the same moment. Hilda's black eyes were shining with a strange glow.

If looks could kill, I wouldn't be long alive, Jenny thought.

"Of course you will not tell." Hilda's voice was calm, despite the angry look in her eyes.

All of them continued eating as if nothing had happened.

Suddenly, the windows began to creak, and the table and chairs started to shake. The plates with food started to jump on the table. Jenny wondered which one of them was doing it and why. She thought that maybe Hilda had caused an earthquake in anger, but she didn't dare to look at her. Instead, she began to examine the faces of Christian's siblings. All of them seemed calm. Her eyes fell on Stephane's face.

"The Applegate family is fighting again," he explained, smiling.

Jenny couldn't imagine what they were doing and what force it took to cause an earthquake.

"What . . . will happen now?" she asked uncertainly.

"Nothing, it will be over soon," Stephane replied calmly, still smiling.

Elena and Hannah also smiled, as if there was something funny.

Jenny thought that maybe they were accustomed to the angry outbursts of their neighbors.

Maybe they didn't smile at the Applegates' fight – maybe it was my reaction that amused them. She felt uncomfortable when she realized that.

Suddenly, the two windows opened and cold air burst into the room. Jenny turned back, as if she was expecting to see the Applegates outside, but there was no one.

"Christian, would you . . ." Hannah didn't finish her request, but Christian understood what was required of him.

"Of course," he said.

The windows closed simultaneously, as if invisible hands had closed them.

How good must be to be able to move objects with the power of your mind. You could do almost anything without even standing up. Jenny tried to keep from laughing, but she couldn't. Instead, she giggled quietly.

She caught sight of Elena, who looked at her disapprovingly. Jenny looked quickly at Christian, who was smiling.

She wondered if he knew what she was laughing at. The thought that he could read minds made her tremble. She was going to ask him about it, but later.

The furniture stopped shaking and the room became warm and quiet again.

*****

Christian went with Jenny to her room after dinner.

"Can I ask you something?" she said, uncertainly.

"Of course."

"Did you organize such a dinner for me?"

"What do you mean?"

"There was a plenty of food . . ."

"We always have dinner this way."

"Did it take much time for Elena to prepare it?" Jenny asked.

"Not more than an hour, she is very fast in everything she does."

Wow! Jenny thought.

She stood with her back against the door and looked at him longingly, expecting him to kiss her.

"Good night. If you need anything, you can call me at any time," he said.

"Thanks."

He turned back and entered his room quickly, leaving her alone.

Disappointment flooded through Jenny. She stood still, looking at his door for a while, and then she turned and entered her room.

She quickly took off her dress and slipped under the covers. She was exhausted, but she was also excited at the same time. She thought she would never fall asleep. Pictures of recent events passed in her mind, but they faded away. The silence around her was deafening; the darkness was impenetrable. She soon drifted off.

8

When Jenny woke up the next day, the entire room was lit by the sun. She could hear the birdsong from outside. She had no idea what hour it was. Her watch had stopped and there were no other clocks in the house.

It feels like time has stopped in this place.

Jenny wondered what new experiences that day would bring her. She was impatient to see Christian again. The thought of him made her get quickly out of bed.

Another dress has been left on the chair in the room. It was light-pink.

Once she was dressed, she knocked on Christian's door, but there was no answer. It was very quiet throughout the entire house. She walked down the stairs. One of the rooms was open and she peered inside. It was a spacious living room with a large stone fireplace. There were beautiful paintings of landscapes on the walls. The couch and chairs were made of red suede. Hannah was sitting in a chair and she was holding something in her lap. It seemed as if she was knitting something. A fat ginger cat was lying at her feet.

1"Hello!" Hannah said cheerfully.

"Good morning," Jenny replied.

"It's time for lunch!" Hannah's laughter filled the room.

"Why didn't you wake me up earlier?"

"Christian wanted you to rest well."

Jenny's heart pounded at the mention of his name.

"Where is everybody?" she asked.

"Mom, Elena, and Stephane went to North Bend. Christian is in the kitchen."

Jenny was relieved that she was alone with Christian and Hannah. Hilda and Elena didn't seem to like her.

"I'll look for Christian," Jenny said.

The kitchen door was open and a delicious aroma wafted from inside. She quickened her pace and walked in impatiently. Christian stood in front of a large stone oven. The sight of him made her heart quicken its rhythm again.

"Hello, did you sleep well?" He turned to her, smiling.

She smiled in response.

"Would you like some brunch?" he asked.

"Yes, thanks," she said.

She sat down, looking at him. His movements were fast and well–timed. She was surprised that he could cook.

When he was ready, he placed a plate of scrambled eggs in front of her, along with buttered toast and a glass of warm milk.

"I had no idea what you might like for breakfast," he said.

"All of this looks great!"

"The food is prepared with all homemade products."

He sat opposite her, but didn't eat.

"Why aren't you eating?" she asked.

"I have already eaten enough with others."

The food was really tasty, but Jenny was lost in her thoughts.

She knew it was the last day for them to be together. He had promised to take her to Leavenworth, but she couldn't imagine how she would live without him. They had only been together for two days, but it was the most amazing time of her life. When she was with him she wasn't thinking about anything else. The memories of her previous life had almost faded. She thought she would never be the same again.

Suddenly, she realized that she was falling in love with him.

She slowly raised her head, and looked at him. He was sitting quietly opposite her, smiling warmly. His eyes were soft and warm.

"Why are you smiling?" she asked, trying to hide her feelings.

"I like the color of your eyes."

"They're gray!"

"They are not just gray. There is a light–brown circle inside them. When the sun hits them, they look as if there are many little stars that shine! In the distance they look green, and in the darkness they look dark blue."

"You have noticed all of this!" She beamed.

"Of course!"

She was flattered and embarrassed at the same time. She felt her cheeks burn again. She didn't know what to say, but she thought he might like her.

"What will we do now?" Jenny asked when she finished with breakfast.

His eyes grew serious. She thought she saw sadness flit through them.

"Would you like to go for a walk with me?" he asked.

"Of course!" She almost jumped out of her seat with impatience.

He smiled at her reaction.

They left the house and walked through the village. Jenny looked curiously around. There were large farmyards with wooden buildings. She saw chickens, dogs and cats roaming freely. It was unusually quiet and the place was very peaceful.

She saw only a few witches working in their yards. This idyllic picture reminded her of a mountain village from the nineteenth century, which she had only seen in the movies. She wanted to stay in this place forever, but she knew it was impossible.

Suddenly, something rustled in the bushes and caught Jenny's attention. A gray wolf rushed out and stopped on the path a few yards away. Jenny pressed her body to Christian's, clutching his hand.

"This is just a wolf, and it's tamed," Christian laughed. He caressed the animal's head as he passed it by.

Jenny's reaction made her feel foolish, but she understood why he found it funny. She thought that human behavior and reactions might be very funny to witches, who are not afraid of anything and who could handle every situation.

Christian took her into the woods away from the village. They came to a small clearing, where beautiful flowers and lilac bushes grew. The air carried the fresh scent of fir and pine. The forest was glowing in gold and green under the bright sunlight. Jenny walked slowly, trying to absorb every moment.

There was a sunny place, where some flowers were crestfallen. They looked as if they would fade soon. Jenny felt sadness at the sight. Christian noticed it in her eyes, and walked slowly to the flowers. He reached out his hand to them. They suddenly stood up as if they had been moved by an invisible force, and they looked fresh again. Jenny couldn't believe her eyes.

1"You are taking my breath away!" she said, astonished.

"I am sorry!" He looked at her with concern.

"No, that's nice! How did you revive the flowers?"

"I have the gift to heal, but it's not strong enough."

"Can you heal people?"

"Yes, if they haven't been hurt too badly."

She remembered that a few times while they were traveling through the forest, she had been in pain, but it was gone very quickly. She wondered if he had healed her, and what else he had done without her noticing.

They walked silently. Christian went to the nearby tree and sat on the grass, leaning his back against the trunk. She sat next to him.

"Did you grow up here?" she asked.

"No, I was born in Germany and grew up in Europe. We moved to the United States later, and we came here some years ago."

The fact that he was born in Germany surprised her. Neither he, nor anyone in his family spoke with a German accent.

"Your English is perfect!" The words escaped her lips.

He burst out laughing. "Thanks."

She wondered what his childhood and his life were like. She wanted to ask him so many questions, but she wasn't sure she would have enough time.

"Have you always lived with your family?" she asked.

"No. Sometimes I traveled alone."

"Where to?"

"I have been almost everywhere."

She wondered how it was possible for him to have been to so many places, because he looked so young. He smiled, noticing her puzzled expression.

"How is that possible?" she asked.

"I had a lot of free time."

She sighed. That wasn't the answer she had expected.

"Are you close to your family?" she asked.

"Yes. Although we haven't been together all the time. Sometimes each of us has taken their own path, but after several years we have reunited. It's nice to know that there is a place where someone is waiting for you and where you can come back whenever you want."

"Is this place your home?"

"Yes, but I could leave it. Home is the place, where the ones you love live."

"Who of your relatives is the closest to you?"

"Hannah maybe. She is the youngest of us; she is the baby of our family."

"How old is she?" Jenny was surprised by him, calling Hannah a baby.

"She is eighteen. This is a very special age," he said.

"Why do you think it is so special?"

"Because at that age one thinks everything is possible, and they are hopelessly romantic."

Jenny smiled. She could understand him, because she was still eighteen.

They remained silent for a while.

"Where is your father?" Jenny finally asked this question.

"He lives in Washington DC, and he works for the FBI."

"Wow!" Jenny couldn't conceal her astonishment. She expected anything else, but not a magician who worked for the FBI.

Christian laughed sincerely at her reaction.

"He decided to use his abilities to help people many years ago."

"That's very noble of him, but for your mother it can't have been easy to raise so many children alone?"

He burst out laughing. "All of us are adults. And we have helped her to look after Hannah."

She wondered how they could have looked after Hannah, as all of them seemed to be the same age.

"How old are you?" She remembered that he had avoided the issue, but it only had sparked her curiosity even more. She was determined to discover the truth.

His expression changed and his eyes became serious. His face was pensive, as if he was pondering something.

"When I turned fifty, I stopped celebrating my birthdays. It was a long time ago."

She stared at him and her mouth fell open.

"I told you I was old." He tried to joke.

She studied his perfect face. There wasn't a single wrinkle on it. She remembered his mother's face, which didn't seem to have been affected by time at all; she also remembered the faces of Hannah, Elena, and Stephane, who looked as if they were all the same age.

"When was your fiftieth birthday?" She was amazed by the thought that he could be so old.

He took a deep breath and looked anxiously at her.

"It was in the eighteenth century."

She couldn't believe it was possible. She tried to calculate how old he was at that moment, but she couldn't. Her brain was blocked.

"Time doesn't affect us the way it affects people," he said, watching her face carefully.

"Obviously," she whispered. "Are you immortal?"

"I can be, if I want to."

"What do you mean?"

"We can control the processes in our bodies with the power of our minds. We can choose whether to stay forever young or to grow old and die like humans."

"If you can live forever, why would you choose to grow old and die?"

"If you don't have somebody to love, the thought of living forever scares you. When you really love somebody, you are ready to do anything, even to give up immortality."

She stared at him astonished. His face had recouped its casual look, but his eyes were serious.

"Does my age bother you?" he asked her warily.

"No, I just . . . I have a problem calculating it."

"I expected you to be more shocked." He laughed.

After all that she had seen and heard the thought that they could live forever seemed possible to her.

"How did you achieve it?" she asked as if she expected to learn the secret of immortality.

"This is the way we are. We are a different species and we have different genes."

This was not the answer, she had hoped for. She sighed and smiled ruefully.

"I wish people could live forever," she said, as if she were speaking to herself.

"People don't appreciate life, even though it is so short. If they could live forever, maybe they wouldn't appreciate it at all."

"Why do you think so?"

"Because I have spent much time among them, and I have had the opportunity to know them very well. They spend so much time in efforts to get what they don't have. Even when they achieve it, it often turns out that it's not what they wanted."

"Do you really think that all people are like that?" she asked skeptically.

"No, some are happy with what they have and they live day-to-day."

"Do you think people will find a way to live forever?" she asked hopefully.

"It's not impossible. I've seen human's life spans double thanks to advancements in medicine."

"How does it feel to live so long?" she asked.

"Days merge into weeks and weeks merge into months. Memory of the past almost fades; the thought of the future doesn't bother me because nothing changes too rapidly. Time stops existing. The past, present and future merge into one now. One starts living for the moment in which something amazes them or makes them happy."

"Are there things that could still amaze you?"

"The beauty of nature amazes me every time. The technological progress and the discoveries of people never stop exciting me," he said smiling.

She wondered what was in his mind. He had seen and experienced things, she couldn't even imagine. She wanted to know everything he knew, but she felt this was impossible. She had too little time left to be with him.

Suddenly, she realized that he didn't belong in her world, and she didn't belong in his. She already knew that they were too different, but she had never expected him to be immortal. She felt unbearable pain that made her want to cry. She turned her head away, not wanting him to see her face.

She thought about the times they had together. Suddenly, she remembered him saying that he had been to Cle Elum before.

"Why have we never met before?" she asked.

"I have seen you several times," he smiled warmly.

His answer took her by surprise.

"I don't remember. Why didn't you talk to me?"

"You have never been alone. You always seemed so happy, that I didn't want to bother you." He reached out and pushed away a strand of hair from her face, as he smiled at her.

Happy? She had almost forgotten what her life had been before they met. The weeks before she met Christian felt like a fog.

"I am much happier here with you! I . . . don't want to live . . . without you!" Her heart pounded as she uttered these words. She couldn't find the strength to look at him.

He reached out and took her hands in his, and then he stood up, helping her join him. She looked at his face this time.

His eyes were earnest as never before. His voice sounded tender and full of yearning when he spoke.

"I fell in love with you from the very first moment I saw you some months ago. I didn't dare to hope that fate would bring us together again. When I saw you in the woods, I was afraid that something bad might have happened to you. When I realized that you were all right, I hoped that I'd have a second chance with you."

Her heart skipped a beat. She tried desperately to take a breath.

"Why didn't you tell me before?" she whispered, still panting.

"I didn't know how you would feel about me." He looked gently at her, his eyes full of hope.

"I . . . ," she couldn't even find the words, "I adore you!" Her heart pounded again.

He gently caressed her face with his warm fingers. They looked at each other for a while. He broke the silence.

"I have to tell you something." His expression was serious and tense.

"Sometimes, we come across lost tourists, while we are walking in the forest. We take them to the village and let them stay with us until their full recovery. Then my mother erases their memories and we escort them to some of the nearest towns."

Jenny remembered the stories about this place that she had heard. She had always thought it was strange that people, who had roamed in these forests, didn't remember anything. Now things finally made sense.

"Why does she erase their memories?" she asked.

"We can't allow them to speak about us. For most of them it is better not to remember what had happened."

Jenny thought of the werewolf and bear attacks.

"Why did you tell me that about her?" she asked.

He watched her anxiously.

"She will erase my memories with you," Jenny whispered. It was hard for her to breathe. The thought that she would never see him again, and that she wouldn't even remember him, caused her unbearable anguish.

"Not if I stop her." He caressed her hair gently with his hand.

"Will you?" Jenny looked up and tried to stop the tears, welling up.

"It all depends on you. Tonight she'll be back. Tomorrow I'll take you to Leavenworth, and you will not remember anything. Your life will continue as if this never happened . . . Or you and I can escape before they return."

"All I want is to be with you! I don't want to forget anything!" she said fervently.

With concern, he studied her face.

"Are you sure?" he asked quietly, "If you forget everything, your life will be normal again."

"Normal? I can't imagine my life without you!" She grabbed his hands and looked him pleadingly.

"Can you accept all the things you have seen so far?" he asked, concerned.

"Of course! I like you the way you are! I want to be with you no matter what it takes!" She couldn't believe what he was asking her.

"There are many things about me you don't know yet." His face and tone were serious.

"I'm longing to find them!"

She thought she saw relief flit across his face.

"You need to do something for me," he said.

"Anything you want!"

"When we get back in the house, you should get your things and change your clothes. When you leave make sure no one can see you. Come to this place. Don't tell anybody where you're going, and don't think about it."

"Why can't I think about it?" she asked, confused.

"Please, trust me!"

"What about Hannah? Can I say good–bye to her?"

"No, I'll talk to her."

He walked quickly, holding her hand. She walked next to him without asking any more questions.

When they reached the village, he told her to go into the house alone and come back as quickly as possible. She decided to do everything as he had told her.

When she reached the house, she went quietly into the corridor, and then climbed the stairs carefully. She entered her room and started changing her clothes quickly. She was thinking about Hannah, while she was gathering her stuff. She wanted to see her once again.

She wondered what would happen if Christian forbade his mother to erase her memories. Would he be able to fight with his mother? Jenny couldn't imagine them having a fight because of her, so she tried to block those thoughts out of her head.

Christian had surprised her by telling her not to think about what she was doing. Jenny tried to dispel the thoughts about their escape. She thought about the beautiful scenery in the forest, that she had seen in recent days.

When she was ready, she left quietly house, closing the door carefully behind herself. She looked around to make sure no one was watching her, and then walked quickly to the end of the village, passing under the shade of the trees. When she reached the place, she stopped and waited for Christian.

The thought that he was in love with her made her heart beat wildly with excitement.

9

Jenny began to lose patience. She had no idea how long she had been waiting, but she wanted him to come as quickly as possible.

As she looked nervously around, she noticed something big, coming toward her among the trees. For a moment her whole body shuddered. She sighed with relief when it came out of the shadows.

It was an enormous horse, bigger than the English Shire horses. Its color was reddish–brown and it had a long, thick mane.

Christian was riding it. He smiled, noticing her astonished gaze. When the horse approached her, he brought it to a halt and held out his hand. She grabbed it and he pulled her up effortlessly. She caught the saddle with her free hand and sat behind him.

1"Didn't you say that we would take horses to get to Leavenworth?" she asked.

"One horse is enough for us."

He turned the horse around in the direction of the forest. The animal walked slowly into the woods.

Jenny put her arms around Christian's waist.The proximity of his body to hers, his warmth, and his smell thrilled her, making her heart beat faster.

Soon, the excitement of their escape was displaced by anxiety. A thought bothered her.

"Will your mother be very angry with you when she comes and doesn't find us?" she asked.

"She will, but it will pass . . ." His voice was calm.

"Do you think they will follow us?"

"No, it'll be too late. We'll be halfway to Leavenworth."

"Why do you think that they won't follow us in Leavenworth?" she asked anxiously.

"Because they don't want to confront me when there are people around. They wouldn't risk anyone finding out the truth about our abilities."

Jenny felt guilty that she had separated him from his family, but she knew it was necessary if she wanted to keep her memories, and if she wanted to be with him.

"What about Hannah?" Jenny remembered her cute, angelic face. She felt sorry that she couldn't meet her once again.

"She understands me. I told her how I feel about you. Actually, she already knew. She sow us leaving together, before we knew it."

Jenny remembered something strange that Christian had said earlier.

"Why did you tell me not to think about our escape?" she asked.

"Because some witches can read thoughts. Elena is one of them, but she is not the only one."

"Can you?" Jenny asked, astonished.

"No."

Thank God! The thought of someone reading her mind seemed to her both embarrassing and frightening. She wondered why Christian hadn't told her earlier that Elena could read thoughts.

Maybe he didn't want to bother me. She was relieved that they were leaving this place.

"Hold on tight!" Christian warned.

She pressed her body firmly against his back.

He spurred the horse. The animal rose up on its back legs and rushed forward.

They had been riding for hours when the sun began to set. The forest was blazing in orange and red. The air was sweet with tang of fir and spruce. Jenny tired to enjoy the incredible beauty of nature, but too many thoughts bothered her.

There were places where the forest was very dense and the branches of the trees almost reached them. Jenny laid her head on Christian's shoulder to avoid branches that whizzed past them. She remained in this position for hours. The sun went down and the darkness enveloped them.

The horse had been running for hours until it slowed down and then finally stopped. Christian jumped from its back and stretched his arms toward Jenny. He took her down off the saddle without any effort, and put her on her feet. Her body was stiff after sitting in one position for a long time. It was difficult for her to keep balance.

Jenny looked around, but she could hardly see anything in the darkness. She saw only the silhouette of the horse and the pale sleeves of Christian's shirt.

"What are you doing?" she asked.

"The forest here is very dense and it is impossible to ride through."

"What will we do?" She asked, worried.

"We will continue on foot." He turned the horse and tapped it on the hip. The animal snorted and started running through the woods.

"What will happen to it?" Jenny asked.

"It will go back to the village."

"The wild animals could attack it!"

"It's too big a bite for them." His white teeth flashed in the darkness as he laughed.

"I can hardly see anything in this pitch–darkness. I don't know how I'll walk to Leavenworth."

"The good news is that you don't need to walk."

He took her in his arms and went forward. She knew it was pointless to resist. Instead, she sank wearily on his shoulder. She thought it would be impossible to fall asleep after everything that had happened.

A hot wave spread all over her body and Jenny began to relax. She remembered this feeling when she was with Christian in the cave. She realized that he had used his abilities to make her fall asleep then, and he was doing it again.

"Thanks," she whispered.

"You are welcome." His quiet voice was the last that she heard.

10

Jenny woke up and looked around. There was something different. She was lying in her aunt's guest room. She sighed with relief and closed her eyes again.

They had arrived in Leavenworth early in the morning. The town was very beautiful flooded with the purple-pink light. When they rang Mary's doorbell she was surprised to see them. Jenny introduced Christian as her friend and asked if they could stay for a while. Mary agreed immediately. She offered them some breakfast, but Jenny was too sleepy to eat.

Jenny sighed with relief when she found out that her mother hadn't called. Mary put Christian up in Jonathan's room and Jenny – in the guest room. Without asking any questions, Mary left them to rest.

Now, as Jenny was lying still, the thought of Christian made her jump out of bed. She couldn't wait to see him. She got dressed quickly and hurried to his room.

Jenny opened the door quietly to watch him while he was sleeping. When she looked inside, Christian wasn't there. The bed looked as if no one had slept in it. She was surprised for a moment, and then the thought that he might have left terrified her. She ran eagerly down the stairs.

The smell of toasted bread floated from the kitchen and she peered inside. What she saw made her gasp with delight.

Christian stood in front of the open door of the fridge and took something out. He was wearing dark-blue jeans and a light gray T-shirt. The clothes fit tight to his perfect body, enhancing his muscles.

Jenny hadn't seen him dressed like that before. He looked like other young men, but he was extremely handsome and hot. She thought he was amazing.

He smiled, noticing her gaze.

"Did you sleep well?" he asked warmly.

"Yes, I did."

"What do you think about my new look?"

"You look awesome!" She couldn't hide her fascination.

"Your aunt gave me some of Jonathan's clothes."

"We should go out and buy you some new clothes," she got closer to him, "Where's Aunt Mary?"

"She went shopping. She said that her hand mixer had broken, so she went out to buy a new one."

Jenny knew that it took hours for her aunt to shop. This meant that she had some hours to be alone with him.

He pulled out a wooden bowl and a wooden mixing spoon, and placed them on the table.

"What are you doing?" she asked.

"I wanted to make some toast, but there is no butter," he answered.

"It doesn't matter." She was so happy to be with him that she didn't even think about eating.

"We can make butter if we have some sour cream." He put the sour cream slowly into the bowl and left the wooden spoon inside.

"How are you going to make it?" She looked at him, confused.

"You will see." He winked at her and moved away from the table.

The wooden spoon began spinning in a circle, as if it was driven by an invisible force. The rotation was getting faster and faster until the spoon became almost invisible. Jenny was enchanted and couldn't take her eyes off it. The wooden spoon slowed its motion until it stopped. There was now a thick mixture that looked like butter around the spoon.

"You don't stop amazing me!" she exclaimed.

"I will do it forever if you let me."

Forever! she sighed. The thought that Christian is immortal and she isn't, caused her unbearable pain.

Christian spread some butter and some homemade berry jam on the toast, and placed a plate in front of her. They ate in silence.

*****

Later, they went to visit the shops on the main street. Jenny was surprised to find out that Christian had a bank account and a debit card.

"When you live so long, you make a pile from the interest," he told her when they were alone.

She could put up somehow with the thought that he was much richer than her, but another thought had tortured her all day.

After shopping, she suggested they could go for a walk in the park. She took him to an alley with wooden benches, facing the Wenatchee river, where she loved to walk as a child.

She sat on a bench, and looked at the river, away from him.

"Why are you so quiet today? What's wrong?" Christian inquired as he sat next to her.

It seems I can't hide anything from him, he already knows me so well! Jenny smiled sadly, turning to him.

"You said that you would amaze me forever, if I allow you, but this is impossible," she whispered.

"Why do you think so?" he asked, concerned.

"You will live forever, but I won't. We can't stay together forever."

"We can be together as long as we want. I can give up immortality for you."

"You can't do that!" She looked astounded.

"Of course I can. I would give up eternity for a long and happy life with you!"

She couldn't believe what he was saying. He had just confessed that he wanted to spend his life with her. She couldn't believe that someone as exceptional as him would want to grow old and die because of her. Admiring his perfect face, she couldn't imagine that it would change.

"I don't want you to grow old and die for me. I can't do that to you!"

"You're not doing this to me. The choice will be mine." He reached out and took her hands in his.

"What about your family? They will lose you!"

"They want me to be happy, and I'm happy with you!" He smiled gently and rose, still holding her hands. She stood up too.

"I love you! I've never felt like this before. I don't know where it will lead me, but I want to live every moment of my life with you!" he said fervently.

She threw herself on his neck and wrapped her arms around him.

"I love you too! We don't have to decide anything right now."

*****

Jenny wanted to be with Christian every second of the day, but it wasn't easy. Her aunt was finding many tasks for her to do.

Jenny met Andrew and Caroline, and introduced Christian to them. The four of them went out together a few times.

Jenny was so in love with Christian that she was holding his hand even when she was talking with other people. The official version, which they told everyone, was that she had run out of gas in the middle of the road and she had continued on foot. Christian and she had met by chance, and they had continued walking together to Leavenworth. That wasn't far from the truth; they just missed out some facts.

Jenny wondered how everybody would react if she told them all the truth about Christian and their experiences. That thought had always excited her, even though she knew it was impossible. She was determined to keep his secrets at any cost, even if it meant lying to everybody. Jenny knew that she should be very cautious not to reveal the truth about Christian.

It would be a small sacrifice in the name of love, she thought.

He was gallant with everyone and hadn't aroused the suspicion of anybody. She was surprised by his amazing self-control and the ease with which he was hiding his true nature. When they were alone, she flooded him with tonnes of questions to which he responded with incredible patience.

*****

Two weeks had passed in a daze for Jenny. She had spoken twice with her mother to make sure that she was all right, and she had been relieved when her mother had accepted her relationship with Christian.

"I know that we have only been together for a while, but he is incredible and we are both very happy!" she had told her mother on the phone.

She had also called roadside assistance to tell them to take her car. Even though it was an old wreck she didn't want to abandon it on the road.

After she had taken care of everything that she had to, she was eager to leave as soon as possible with Christian. She wanted to go somewhere far away where no one knew them and where she could be alone with him.

*****

One evening Christian sat on the small sofa on the porch and watched the sunset. Jenny wanted to join him, but then her aunt was preparing dinner. Jenny offered out of politeness to help her. She felt relieved when Mary told her she didn't need any help. Chaos was the only thing Jenny could create in the kitchen.

She rushed out and sat next to Christian.

"Do you want us to leave tomorrow?" She reached out and held his hand.

"Where do you want to go?

"It doesn't matter. I would live in a cave in the woods, if I was with you." She put her head on his shoulder.

"That would be a wonderful life," he smiled. "Do you have any plans?"

"I want to live in a small house with a garden, and I want to cook for you

. . . once I learn how to do it," she sighed.

He burst into laughter.

"You speak as if you want to live like a housewife in some downtown. You are young and you should have fun."

"I've never had so much fun before, as I have had with you!" she said.

"Is there a place you want to go to?" he asked.

"Los Angeles. I want to see the ocean."

"I have a surprise for you," he said.

"What is it?"

"You'll see tomorrow."

11

Christian walked out after breakfast, leaving Jenny with her aunt. He took the bags, which had been prepared the night before.

When the two women went out, they saw him arranging the bags inside the trunk of a light blue convertible car.

"What car is this?" Mary asked in surprise.

"Toyota GT–86," Christian answered.

"Where did you get it from?" Jenny asked, astonished.

"I bought it on the Internet some days ago. I asked a neighbor to keep it in his garage, because I wanted to surprise you."

The two women continued looking at the car and neither of them moved.

"How did you know when to buy it?" Jenny asked him.

"I have very strong intuition." He winked at her.

She believed him because she had noticed several times that his action had preceded her thoughts and needs. Jenny had wondered how he did it; she had guessed that he just knew some things before they happened.

"Take care, kids!" Mary told them.

Jenny turned around to embrace her.

"Thank you for everything, aunt!"

Christian opened the door for Jenny and she sat in the passenger seat.

"Drive carefully, young man!" Mary told him.

"Of course, Mrs. Summers." Christian stretched his arm out to her. He held her hand, leaned forward and put it close to his lips. This amazed the old lady once again.

Jenny was already used to his old–fashioned manners, but she smiled at that scene. She wondered how her mother would react when she met him, but she knew that it wouldn't happen soon.

Christian sat in the driver's seat and drove off fast, leaving Mary and her neighbors watching them from their verandas. Jenny turned to wave goodbye to them. She had the feeling that she wouldn't be back to Leavenworth soon. She felt sadness, but she knew the life that awaited her was much more exciting than even she could imagine.

She reached out and held Christian's right hand. Soon she found out that he could drive quite well with just one hand.

Christian allowed her to drive a few times. He told her not to exceed the speed limit, but she didn't listen to him. She tried to force the car to reach its maximum speed, thinking there was no way he could make her drive slowly, but she was wrong.

He kept pushing the brake pedal, thanks to telekinesis, while he was sitting perfectly still. That way he didn't let her drive too fast. Jenny was annoyed by this, but she couldn't be mad at him for too long. In the end, she gave up and let him drive.

They arrived in Los Angeles after two days. He booked a motel room in the San Fernando Valley and left her alone. He told her he was going to find permanent accommodation. She wanted to come with him, but he insisted that she should take a rest after the long journey.

Jenny thought that would be the longest day of her life. First of July – the day of her nineteenth birthday. She couldn't imagine spending it alone in a motel room.

She rearranged her luggage out from boredom. Christian had supplied her with enough food and she ate it all out of boredom.

In the afternoon, she spent an hour in the bathroom getting ready for the evening. She was determined to celebrate her birthday and the beginning of her new life with Christian.

Jenny put on the only dress she had – it was a black, knee length dress that she had bought from Leavenworth. Afterwards, she put some makeup on, something that was uncommon for her. She had never been good at it, so she only put on some black mascara and some pink lipstick.

Once she was ready, she jumped on the bed and started nervously changing the TV channels. The next few hours took all of her patience.

She ran eagerly outside when she heard the car stopping in front of the door. Christian had already got out of the car and had come half way, when Jenny almost bumped into him.

His eyes widened when he saw her.

"You look great!" he said, amazed.

"Thanks!"

"Are you hungry?" He asked.

"No, I ate all day long while I was waiting for you."

"That's good. We can go straight to the villa."

He entered the room, picked up the bags, and then walked out quickly.

"What villa?" Jenny asked, trying to keep up.

"I rented a villa in Malibu for us."

"Malibu? The rent there is too high, I can't afford it!" Jenny complained.

"I can. Think of it as a little gift," Christian closed the trunk of the car.

"Little? This is too much!" she objected.

"Nothing is too much for you!" He smiled gently, opening the door for her.

He went to the receptionist to leave the keys of the room. While she was waiting for him to come back, she thought that living in Malibu for a while wouldn't be so bad. She knew there was no point arguing with him because she saw how excited he was. They would make a great vacation, and after a few weeks they would find cheaper accommodation, and soon she would find a job.

Christian drove along Santa Monica Boulevard, passing through Hollywood and Beverly Hills. Jenny had never been to Los Angeles before. She was looking around with curiosity, but she was more excited by the fact that Christian and she would live together.

When they arrived in Malibu, Christian helped her to get out of the car and led her ahead. The house was in a remote place and it was surrounded by many exotic trees and bushes that made it difficult to be seen. Christian and she went in from the front side.

Jenny gasped when she actually saw the house. It was a large, white modern style home with big French windows facing the beach. Christian and she entered a big lobby with marble floors. There was a very spacious open plan living room. Jenny ran impatiently inside. Everything was white and there was a fluffy white rug over the marble floor.

"I think you'll like the bedroom," Christian said, noticing her astonished gaze. He took her with him.

Everything in the room they entered was also in white. There was a huge round bed, and there were French windows facing the backyard. The windows were open, and the aroma of the salt seawater mixed with the delicate scent of exotic flowers wafted through them.

The ceiling attracted Jenny's attention. Just above the bed, there was a dome of glass, and they could see the sky and the Palm trees through it. It was getting dark outside and the first stars were shining in the bright purple sky. Jenny was completely stunned by the sight.

"Do you like it?" She heard Christian's quiet voice right behind her.

"It is absolutely . . . amazing," she said breathlessly, turning around to face him.

Christian got closer to her and took her hands in his.

"Happy birthday, Jenn," he smiled gently.

"You remembered it?"

"Yes, but I wasn't sure what presents to buy for you."

"I don't need any presents, all I want is you!"

He held her face gently in his hands and kissed her for the first time. His lips were soft and persistent.

She felt dizzy and her knees bent. She felt like she was falling, but his arms held her body in a strong embrace.

"I am all yours . . ." he whispered gently in her ear.

###

Thank you for reading my book. If you enjoyed it, won't you please take a moment to leave me a review at your favorite retailer?

Thanks!

Paula Bell

57

