 
Table of Contents

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Chapter 9
Fate Trail

© 2014 A. L. Wilson

Published at Smashwords

Cover art © 2014 A. L. Wilson

All original artwork © April Mayfield

This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places and incidents are entirely the products of the author's imagination. Any resemblance to actual events, locations, or persons, living or dead, is entirely coincidence.

Edited by Deborah St. Arbor

***
Chapter 1

Almost a Ghost Town

Heavy boots thudded across the creaking floor boards of the saloon. A worry-browed man leaned both elbows against the bar top, glancing nervously about the place as he fiddled with a wide-brimmed hat. It was just like every other saloon West of the Mississippi. There were men of all shapes and sizes huddled around small tables, slamming down rank amber liquid while chatting about the long harsh hot day. A few ladies of the evening fanned themselves as they wound through the crowd, flashing missing toothed grins to lure in potential customers. "What'll it be Stranger?" A thin bald man called out from behind the bar. He was fussing with a particularly grungy-looking glass, ending up spitting into it before rubbing it down more. "Ah, beggin' yer pardon. Name's Frank Tims. I'm from Cannonsville, 'bout half a day's ride to the North."

The bartender seemed bored with the conversation already, but he nodded a few times as he sat down the glass he'd been spit-shining and picked up another. "Yeap yeap, I know where it be. Well met, Frank Tims. Now what can I do ya fer?" The man shifted in his muddy boots, looking not much different than any of the other farmers, ranch hands, or cattle rustlers that were peppered about the sweat, chew and puke scented room. "Well uh, to be honest. I'm lookin fer a bit of information. I hear-tell this 'ere town is known for a bit of 'strange goins on.'" The bartender abruptly spat into the cup he was working back and forth inside with a rag, jutting his nose into the air as he glanced away. "Dun know what'cha talkin 'bout, Son. Think ya might wanna turn right back 'round an' head North ways."

The stranger abruptly lunged forward, grasping the bartender by the elbow before the man could walk away to attend another customer. The bald man's silvery brows started to crawl up his forehead. "Ya bes' be unhanden me, Boy." With a deep frown, the man released his grip and let his feet rest flat against the floor. "Beggin ya pardon 'gain, Sir. I ain't 'ere to cause no trouble. I'm jus' lookin for this Negro I hear be livin up in a homestead nearby." The bartender's nostrils flared and he pointed a boney finger towards the stranger. "Now ya listen 'ere Stranger an' ya listen good. I don't know what ya be goin on 'bout, but ya need to get back on whatever horse ya rode in on an' get on outta 'ere or ya might have yaself a whole mess a trouble!"

With desperation in his aging face, the man who identified himself as 'Frank Tims' suddenly took a palm-sized picture frame from his pocket. The photo inside was rumpled about the edges, but the browned depiction of a young girl seated in a rocking chair with her hands clasped was still clear enough. "Please, Sir I beg ye! My daughter—my only child! She was bitten by this—this _creature_! Now she real sick an' no doctor can tell me what's wrong. I hear from this Indian that there be this Negro that knows stuff 'bout it. I'm jus lookin fer help. Please!"

By now all the chatter circling the saloon had stopped and the faces of the townsfolk had turned to look upon the man; listening to his desperate pleas. The bartender glanced to the picture, staring at it with a harsh gaze that eventually softened as he breathed a heavy sigh. "A'ight, a'ight, calm down there. What'cha say ya name was? Frank was it? Jus' take a breath, an' a seat, Frank." One of the spit-shined glasses was set down with a click in front of the trembling man, and it was instantly filled with pungent near-brown liquid. The tender left the bottle beside it, watching as the man took a seat before gathering up the glass with a quivering hand.

It was the first time the tender actually _looked_ at the man. Frank was probably in his mid to late forties but there was already salt and pepper in his hair and the stubble upon his chin. There were dark circles around aging blue eyes, and judging by the drab attire, sun-reddened skin, and worn boots; he was probably a farmer.

"I tell ya a story, Frank. This 'ere town was only established five year ago, but ya wouldn't know it by lookin at Her. This place was supposed to be a tradin hub, but no one comes 'ere, not even the Indians. During construction we lost at least a dozen good men, an' they families mostly followed them to the grave. I buried so many friends an' family I practically go 'round in my funeral suit." The bartender took out another glass and placed it down, pouring the same whisky he'd offered the distraught father. The bald man slammed the liquid, letting out a faint 'aaahh' before he continued.

"Hells, I had a full head'a'hair before tryin to help establish this place." There was a rumbling sad chuckle about the entire saloon. "Word is that these lands are cursed, an' had I not seen some'a'the things I'd seen with my own eyes, I'd just wave it off like every other new comer. But anyways...'bout a year ago this Negro rolls into town. We didn't treat 'im too kindly at first, but he didn't start no trouble. Few days later the Sheriff's son went missing."

There was a murmur from the patron's within the saloon. The entire place was listening to the tale; even the ladies stopped to listen—sitting down on the stairs with their elbows against their knees, wearing forlorn expressions. "The boy took off after a ghost. An' dun shake ya head at me. Ten grown men saw that damned specter. It looked jus like the boy's dead mama. We was all scared unmovin' in our boots. But that Negro, he weren't scared. He tracked the thing down, an' did somethin'...brought the Sheriff's son home safe'n'sound."

The calm of the room was disturbed with an abrupt grinding of a chair. A man in the back of the room stood up. He was large and imposing with a grisly beard and horse muck covered clothing. "An' he weren't the only one! Syllis saved muh two boys an' me wife!" The entire room started to chatter back and forth, making the bartender end up slamming a glass down onto the bar top to silence all the building roar.

"Mmm, ya be hard pressed to find anyone 'round 'ere that ain't got some story 'bout somethin' a-the-like. Likely it ain't gunna last. This place is goin downhill an' fast. Ain't no _one_ man that know 'bout ghosties an' monsters gunna stop that. Won't be long a'fore we just a ghost town _but_!" Abruptly there was a jangle of spurs, interrupting the tender's thought as a tall man leaned against the bar, butting boldly into the conversation.

With the flick of one finger he pushed up at the brim of his large hat, exposing no-non-sense gaze and long beard with one white streak down the center. A stream of light from outside caught the tin star at his chest, revealing the word 'Sherriff' pinned above his heart. "But, we ain't gunna be havin no trouble from outsiders in our town."

The bartender instantly sat up straighter, along with most of the people in the saloon. As people turned around to mind their own tables, the sound of chairs grinding against the floor filled the air, while heads bowed to hide each suddenly UNcurious face. "Ah, Sh—Sherriff! I was just tellin this here Stranger, his name's Frank Tims, he says—'Bout how we don't want any trouble. He uh, he says somethin' hurt his girl, an' he's looking for Syllis an'..."

The Sherriff lifted a black leather gloved hand to silence the bald man, still staring directly at the new comer. "I heard it all. I don't need no re-tellin. Syllis Cox is his name. He has a homestead outside of town near the cliffs. The man is an odd one; keeps mostly to himself. Durin the day he trades with Indians or goes out an' tracks. He'll be hard to find. If ya wanna catch him, go by his place round sundown. Ya might catch him comin back. An' make no mistake...if ya lookin to cause trouble for him, ya lookin in the wrong place."

The Sherriff loomed over the fidgeting man. "Syllis can take care of himself, an' if ya cross him, ain't no tellin what he might unleash on ya." With that, the Sherriff simply turned on his heels and started to walk out of the saloon, filling the place with an ominous jangle of the spurs attached to his boots.

***
Chapter 2

Story of a Lone Wolf

It had taken the better part of a day for the stranger to wind his way up into the hills in order to find the rickety shack surrounded by barbed wire. The sun was setting at his back as a long foot kicked out behind so he could slide down from his exhausted horse. The place was nestled in between two tall, grey, and half dead trees with a cliff at its back. Anyone that was coming upon it would have to work their way up a long dirt trail at a steep climb, or perhaps crawl through thorn bushes. Then, they would be unhappily met by rolls of barbed wire fencing. The home was shabby at best, and whoever this 'Syllis Cox' was, he; obviously didn't take kindly to visitors.

The stranger beat at his thighs with his hat as he approached the gate to the fencing, still some few hundred feet away from the front of the tiny drab shack. No sooner than his booted feet started to crunch within earshot, there came a warning growl, and then sharp barking sounds. An old smokey hound darted out from somewhere behind the shack and ran straight up to the gate. The old mutt was practically foaming at the mouth as it barked at the stranger, clawing at the inside of the gate in warning for the man to get away from his master's home. The stranger startled, stumbling back just slightly and stopping short of reaching out to try and open said gate.

"Hey! Hey! Jonas! Settle down all that damned noise. Giving me a pain between me ears." Again the stranger startled, nearly jumping out of his boots. The voice had come not from the shack, but from somewhere slightly behind and to his right. Spinning around with a crunch of dirt and rock he came face to face with a dark skinned man holding a rifle in one hand, and several dead rabbits in the other.

The darker skinned male was short in stature but it was clear from the way his shirt strained beneath his shoulders that he was built for hard labor. His wide-brimmed brown hat was pulled down a bit, shading his face so that only part of his cheek and stubble covered chin shown. He seemed to look up just a bit, showing the corners of pouty, youthful lips as he spoke. "I don't see to visitors an' I don't trade with outsiders. If ya lookin to invite me to ya parish— well me an' Jesus got a special kin'a understandin. Don't be upset when ya don't see me in the pews on Sunday."

The dark-skinned man started to grin, showing rows of white teeth with one k-nine that was chipped and broken, marring the otherwise perfect smile. It was rare to see a smile with only one unhealthy specimen, even on someone so young. It gave one the impression that before moving out into that shack near the cliffs, he had come from somewhere decidedly other than that far West. The stranger had been so zoned out, drinking in the short man with his white teeth and odd grin that he almost forgot to speak. Standing up a bit straighter as he realized the other was simply passing him by and heading straight for the gate. He cleared his throat.

"Ah, no no! Ain't nothing like that. It's my daughter ya see." The black man instantly scoffed, throwing the dead animals over the fence and then leaning forward to set the rifle down on the opposite side before fiddling with the catch. "Sorry to burst ya bubble, but I ain't gettin my neck stretched by no hang-man's noose. I ain't left my place farther than the huntin grounds in a year an' I _sure_ ain't been touchin up on no white women. Go find yerself some other colored man to blame."

The gate slid open with a creak and was promptly slammed closed with a bang and a trembling of metal. The hunter gathered up the dead fluffy animals and his gun, apparently having no intention of giving the stranger anymore of his time. The stranger stood dumbfounded for a moment before rushing forward and jutting a hand through an opening in the gate. " _Please_! My daughter was bitten three days ago an' the fever's still got her! She moans near constantly an' won't wake up. A doctor tol' me ain't nothin' to be done an' it was prolly jus' some wild dog, but I tell ya that weren't no dog!!"

The stranger snatched his hand back just before it got a sharp nip from the mutt within the fence. The shorter man had stopped his trek to the shack and slowly turned his head, so it almost looked like he might be peering over his shoulder. "What it look like? An' dun tell me tales 'cuz ya think ya soun' crazy. I need to know ' _xactly_ what ya saw." The stranger wrung his hat in his hands as he stammered out. "It was a huge beast, stood on two legs like a man, but had the head of...of..."

The darker man spun around, crossing his arms over his chest— finally lifting his head. His eyes were a striking honey amber color and the intensity of the irises made the stranger freeze where he stood. "The head of a wolf." The dark-skinned man finished for the stammering stranger. After a hard and visible swallow, the stranger nodded in confirmation.

"Mmm, three days ago ya said? It weren't no full moon that night. That's a bad sign—a _real_ bad sign." The dark skinned male let out a heavy sigh, leaning down to pile the dead rabbits onto the back of the panting dog. Lightly petting at the creature's head he smiled down at him. "Yeah, that's a good boy, Jonas. Take those up into the house for me. Daddy gotta do some bid'ness." The dog seemed to obey, trotting off with the animals balanced on his back, and then disappearing somewhere around the back of the shack.

"What'cha name Stranger?" The darker male called out as he approached the gate once more. Blinking out of his stupor the man replied. "Frank, Frank Tims. The people down in town told me 'bout you, an' what you've done for the town. I jus' want to help my girl. I don't want no trouble for ya." The shorter male let out a heavy sigh, rubbing a hand over his face. "Shite. Well, they prolly told ya that I'm Syllis, Syllis Cox." He snickered almost instantly, as if there was some sort of private joke about his name, but it fell away almost instantly.

"Well met." That hand was jutting out through the gate again and Syllis looked down to it thoughtfully. "Not many white folk will shake the hand of a colored man." He mused as he took the hand and gave it a firm little jostle before letting go. "Well, now that we've acted all respectable-like, I guess I shoul' tell ya that ya girl is gunna live, but she ain't gunna ever be the same."

Syllis watched as the man's face fell to a grim sort of stagnation before he nodded slowly. "But something tells me that ya was prepared for the worst with her. It's the beasty that ya really after ain't it?" Frank blinked in surprise and Syllis instantly smirked. "That kin'a monster has a real bad smell. Most people dun really notice it, but someone like me that's seen a whole lotta real bad shite, well I recognize it. Ya went after it didn't ya?"

Frank's bland expression turned into a frowning scowl before he sighed heavily and started to hang his head. "I rounded up the best men I knew. A couple'a farm hands, my brother an' my cousins. We went out huntin with eight—came back wit' four."

Syllis nodded a few times, hands going to rest on his hips. "An' if ya try again, it'll whittle ya down to two, then none. Soon ya'll piss it off so bad it'll blow through ya whole damned town killin every livin thing it sees. Or maybe bitin' 'em like it did ya girl." Syllis watched the way the man was wringing his hat in his hands so tightly that his knuckles had turned white. "Whatcha' dealin' with is both man an' beast. Takes more than jus' some bloodthirsty men to deal wit' somethin' like that." Those honey amber eyes drifted towards the skies. By now it was growing deeply dark and the stars were pinpricking lights in the sky overhead. "But you know how to hunt this thing, right?"

Syllis continued to stare at the sky, it appeared like he was just zoning out on the beautiful night, but he was actually trying to gauge how close they were to the next full moon. "Aye, I can get after the beasty. Will have to make a quick go of it too. When the full moon hits; ya daughter has a decision to make. It might not be one that ya like, either."

Frank's eyes were now looking confusedly at the sky. He tilted his head one way and then the other. "Wha? I don't think I understand." When he glanced back towards Syllis he was looking at the man's retreating back. Silent as the grave the shorter man had snagged up his rifle and gotten halfway back up the little trail towards his shack. "Hey...HEY! Wait!" With the rifle draped over his shoulder, Syllis gave a haphazard wave. "Go home, Frank Tims. I'll be at your place by sundown tomorrow. I gotta pick up some supplies."

Frank's pale worried blue eyes stared at Syllis' fleeing back. "But! Ya don't even know where I'm from!" Syllis' footfalls never stopped, his voice starting to drift farther and farther away. "I'm a tracker, Frank Tims. If I can't find ya farm up North ways, then I sure as Hell can't find a Werewolf. I'll see ya tomorrow night. Now go home an' get some damned sleep. Believe me—if that Werewolf wanted ya dead, ya'd already _be_ dead. It's got plans for ya yet. Let's jus' hope it ain't as clever as it thinks it is." With that, the door to the little shack clicked shut behind Syllis and the distraught father was left to his own devices amongst the starlight.

***
Chapter 3

The Monster Tracker

Inside the little shack Syllis immediately leaned back against the door. His honey eyes stared around at the sparsely furnished place; not bothered in the least by the lack of any sources of light. His lips puckered up almost to the point of looking like he was sucking on a lemon, before he finally let out a faint growling noise and kicked up to a standing position. "Tch, dammit. Don't wanna get mixed up in this shite, but what choice do I have?" He spoke aloud, glancing down to the dog that was curled up on the dirt floor. The scruffy mutt lifted its head and then tilted it to the side as if trying to comprehend what its beloved master was saying. "Ah, Jonas. You'll be a good boy while I'm gone right?"

Smirking in the darkness Syllis shuffled over to a small table with a single rickety looking chair. There he drew up a few of the rabbits he'd brought in earlier and from his boot produced a skinning knife. When the scent of blood filtered into the air, the dog on the floor started to growl low and guttural. "Oooh, you're hungry too eh? Here ya go, Boy." Without looking, Syllis tossed the head of a rabbit over his shoulder. There was the sound of the dog chomping down on the rabbit's skull and Syllis started to hum to himself as he hung the animals up to drain the blood into a large wooden bowl. It was not exactly a strange ritual to do for cleaning a day's kill, but at the same time there was something slightly 'off' about the way he did things.

The animals were carefully skinned with such speed and skill one would think he'd been doing it for many years. The skins were tied up to dry, before the bodies were lopped into quarters. Several hunks of meat were tossed to the dog while the bowl of blood was gathered up as Syllis started to make his way through the back of the shack. All the while he continued to hum some tune he'd heard long ago and forgotten the words; if it ever had words.

At the back of the shack there was a board that hung from the ceiling slightly sideways. This was the way that Jonas, the dog, slithered inside without using a door. Syllis pushed the board aside with a squeaking protest of wood before squeezing through the crack. Out the back of the shack was an opening into the cliff beyond. He stepped straight through the meager homestead and into a small cave. It was even more pitch black than his home had been, yet he used no light to illuminate his way. His humming echoed off the cave's walls as he stepped over rock formations and splashed through a bit of water from a stream that bubbled up from the Earth's core.

The Tracker walked for a good five minutes before finally settling down on a comfortable rock and leaning back with a heavy sigh. The bowl of blood rested against his knees as he turned to look at the cave ceiling, admiring the way the water droplets had carved beautiful formations in the rocks above. It was a quiet and spiritual place, with only the dripping of water echoing off the walls to keep someone company. He waited until the dripping sounds felt like they were thrumming into his chest before lifting the bowl to his lips. Slowly his honey gold eyes slid closed as he tilted the bowl up and felt the first touch of copper brush his lips.

The taste of dead wild rabbit blood was horribly foul compared to that of sweet rushing hot human blood against one's tongue, but one did what was necessary to survive in the harsh West. Once he got beyond the first gulp Syllis was able to just open his mouth wide and let the rest slide down his throat. By the time the bowl was empty the dark-skinned Tracker was lightly coughing and sputtering. Letting out a faint sneezing sound he put the bowl back against his knees and shook his head.

The Tracker licked his lips as a growl vibrated through his chest. "Going up against a werewolf—I really need something better than this. Dammit..." He mumbled in the darkness; hearing his own voice echo back from off the cave walls.

Shaking his head again, the Tracker put his hat aside before undoing the bandana about his throat and tugging his brown shirt up over his head. Removing dirt encrusted boots and then dusty trousers, he slithered his cocoa colored body into the stream that ran between the rock formations. Dipping his hands into the cool water he splashed it up onto his face and over his mostly shaved head. His hair was cut nearly to the scalp, leaving only a bit of peach fuzz. Carefully he smoothed his hands down his chest and across his sculpted stomach.

Despite living in a harsh environment and being a man of color, his body was free of blemishes or scars. Just the color of his skin would suggest that he would have found himself at the end of a whip at one time or another. However, there was nothing on his body to indicate he had ever suffered any sort of hardship. His eyes, on the other-hand, were filled with more than a fair amount of worldly wisdom and pain.

After a long and introspective bath, the Tracker redressed in a slightly cleaner pair of dusty pants, a brown shirt, dirty pair of boots, bandana about his throat and his wide brimmed brown hat. He left plenty of meat for the dog, patting the mutt on the head as he started for the front door. "Don't do anythin' I wouldn't do." He snickered at the animal before slipping out into the night air. Once outside he took a deep breath and let it out slowly. His nostrils flared and in his honey eyes a red ring formed around the black pupil. Once standing on his quaint gray porch with a rickety shack as his backdrop, rifle strapped to his back, the Tracker simply vanished.

Within minutes he'd arrived at the town of Cannonsville, miles North of where he had been previously. Like a stalker in the night he kept to the shadows, sniffing around at the quietly sleeping town. It would be the next morning before Frank Tims even managed to get home, but Syllis wanted to get a jumpstart on looking for the Werewolf. The pungent odor of 'markings' led him up into the hills and amongst thick trees.

It wasn't hard to find the place where the hunting party had been slaughtered. He even found a few bits and pieces of the men scattered along the ground, and hanging from the trees. They were just left strewn about and not collected by the humans— either because someone had been too squeamish or perhaps they just went unseen since they were not large enough 'chunks' of each person.

As far as Syllis could tell, the people were not eaten, but most likely just killed in self-defense or as warnings. Perched high in the top of a tree he rubbed at the back of his neck, groaning slightly. "Wonder if this Werewolf is one of the town's people. Maybe she was bitten by accident? Dammit all...I hate these sort of things." He mused quietly to himself before jumping down from his vantage point and starting to follow a small trail of spattered blood and a few fading large paw prints that led higher into the hills. The trail dead-ended where some larger rocks began as if maybe the creature started to climb. Drawing in a deep breath the Tracker placed his hands upon his hips thoughtfully. "Or maybe this is where it shifted back..."

"That's not a bad theory." A voice abruptly cut through the night air behind the Tracker. Spinning around with a swift motion, Syllis' rifle came swooping into his hand at the ready. In a practiced motion, he managed to blink the red from his eyes as he squared off, ending up face to face with a tall and imposing figure dressed all in black with hints of silver. One particularly glaring silver adornment sparkled amongst the moonlight and cast a white shadow across Syllis' cocoa face. He winced at the reflection from the tin star at the man's lapel. "Who the Hell are you??" Syllis barked out in a warning tone, even as the man tipped his black hat. "Name's Markus Elkin, Texas Ranger. Maybe I shoul' be askin' _you_ that question."

With a flick of one finger that black hat was pushed upwards and Syllis was met with the most enormously beautiful hazel eyes. The string of curse words he'd been preparing was momentarily stalled in his throat as he drank in the magnanimity of the man before him. "I'm a Tracker; been hired by a nearby family to hunt down a dangerous beasty. Now if ya'd excuse me, Mister Texas Ranger."

There was more than a little venom spat into the end of the sentence as Syllis went to turn his back on the exceptionally attractive man. Not only were his eyes striking, but his features were chiseled. He had just the right amount of tan, a cleft in his chin, and there were brown curls peeking out beneath his hat. Syllis turned his head to spit just for the sake of spitting because his mind quite literally thought 'tall dark and handsome' without his permission.

"Well, ain't that a coincidence. I'm huntin a dangerous beasty come up this way. I over-heard what'cha said. Maybe ya shouldn't talk to yaself. Someone might think ya was touched in the head." Syllis could feel the Texas Ranger coming closer, so close in fact, that the other's elbow brushed against him. They ended up standing so that the Tracker could feel the heat coming off the Ranger's black-clad body. Syllis swallowed hard, feeling like someone had just dumped a handful of sand in his mouth.

"I dunno what'cha talkin 'bout. Anyways, I seriously doubt we huntin the same thing." The Ranger scoffed, placing a black booted foot with shining silver spurs up onto a rock and leaned forward. The Ranger's elbows rested against his knee, and without meaning to, Syllis found his honey eyes glancing to the other's thigh. "Ooooh, I think we are. From that lil' tid bit 'bout the Change. Yer after the Werewolf too."

Syllis was struck stupid for so many reasons in that moment. All he could do was jerk his eyes forward and stare at nothing. It was like someone put ice in his veins. After a long moment he managed to turn his head in a horror-flick slow way, and gaze up at the Texas Ranger that was now practically looming over him. The near malicious grin from the other's face left the Tracker feeling incredibly uneasy and his nose curled up in disgust as he shook his head.

"Maybe it's you that's touched in the head." The Ranger instantly laughed into the Tracker's face, and his breath wasn't some foul smelling whiskey or rank week old chew, but rather it smelled sweet and clean with an undertone of some kind of nut. "Maybe so, but ain't there a saying somewhere 'bout two crazies bein better than one?" Syllis quirked a brow, giving the other a droll expression. "Somehow I doubt it."

The Ranger drew back abruptly, his spurs jangling as he marched himself down the hill and away from the Tracker. "Even so, looks like I'm stuck workin with yer incompetent arse. Do try not to muck anything up too badly for me, eh? Ya could a'course jus' leave this whole thing to the professional an' scurry on back to whatever hole ya crawled out of...Or! Ya could be my Boy. Yeah! Fetch my horses, clean my gun. That's prolly a good job for you ain't it?"

Syllis felt his cheeks heat up and his fists tighten around his gun. He grit his teeth and spun around, a vomit of screams about to erupt from his lips. "I'll show you 'Boy!'" But before he could properly go on a rant, or even tackle the Ranger to the ground, the man was simply gone. Blinking a few times in shock, Syllis nearly toppled over. A hand reached up to touch his forehead and he wondered if he'd just imagined that incredibly attractive (though horribly annoying) Texas Ranger. With a groan he moved to sit down on a nearby rock and took a few deep breaths. "Maybe I am goin a lil crazy..."

***

Chapter 4

The Farmer's Daughter

After the unsettling encounter with tall, dark, and ominously sexy, Texas Ranger, Markus Elkin, the Tracker moved to find a place to bed down for the day. High in the hills he found a cluster of rocks surrounded in tall trees with a tiny stream that ghosted towards the South. It would have been the perfect place to make a camp. However, instead of laying down a bed roll or any of the sort, he began an impossible climb straight up the rocks towards an outcropping some fifty feet above. Slithering along the rock face until he found a nook that was barely big enough for a man to fit, the Tracker wedged himself into the hole and started to push, sliding on his belly within the murky depths.

Inside there wasn't much more than some dank musty mold and the distant sound of dripping water from somewhere deep within. Syllis kept crawling until he was far within—away from any touch of light that might drift from the on-coming sunrise. It opened up a bit farther once he was inside, just enough that he could move around. He plopped down his rucksack and leaned his back against it, rolling so that he faced away from his tiny 'cave' entrance. It wasn't the worst place he'd ever slept, though clearly not the best either.

With a heavy sigh he tried to toil over the investigation of the night. In the darkness he imagined the placement of fading paw prints and how bloody bits of people were strewn. He thought about the farmer's daughter and how she might have gotten mixed up in all of this. However, it all kept being over-shadowed by the glare of a gleaming silver star and the smirk of a pompous asshole dressed in black. Letting out an annoyed huff within his cramped space, Syllis forced his eyes closed and drew his arms tightly against his body. If nothing else, he would compel his mind to get some rest. Tomorrow evening he would wake and head to the farm house. They only had a few days left before the full moon, after all.

Just before sunset the next day, Syllis rolled over in his cramped little hovel ending up colliding with something warm and familiar scented. Groaning faintly his eyes fluttered open, finding a bright pair of hazel irises staring back at him. With a gasp he tried to move, but the only exit from the tiny hole was now bodily blocked by a shirtless Adonis. "Wha—what the Hell are ya doin'??" One hand came against his cheek, and the other went right to the front of his pants, the both of them tenderly rubbing back and forth. "Ssshhh, shut up and kiss me." Honey eyes went wide as those smirking lips came closer and closer, but just as they were about to bridge the gap; Syllis startled awake.

Sitting straight up in his cramped conditions, Syllis' head collided with the rock above him, thudding so sharply that he saw stars exploding behind his eyelids. Falling back down to a reclining position the back of his head smacked against his rucksack. Groaning deeply the Tracker rolled around in an angry fit, one hand clutching his head. "Dammit! Dammit! Dammit!" With a heavy sigh the cocoa skinned figure went still, listening to the sound of the coming evening outside.

His entire body was tensed and there was a scowl on his face. The twitching in his trousers was incredibly unwelcome at this juncture, especially from the subject of his dream. "I've been alone out in the desert too damned long. That's all." Drawing in a breath he let it out slowly and tried to think rationally. "Clearly that Ranger ain't human, so I gotta watch myself. He might even be the Werewolf tryin to throw me off. If so...he's got me pegged, or tryin to. I gotta watch my back." Waiting a bit longer to make his wriggling worm escape from the hole, the Tracker stole away into the night so that he might make a convincing appearance at the farmer's home.

Clopping slowly up the dusty lane on a stolen horse, Syllis surveyed the landscape. It was just like any of many other farm houses he'd seen in his travels. There were rows of fence posts with some scant beasts tucked away in little shanties, and lots of land with various crops trying to grow in the harsh environment. A dog chased a cat across the trail right in front of the Tracker, causing his horse to shuffle agitatedly sideways a few times before straightening up to walk forward once more.

There were two large barns on the property and the house itself, which wasn't any different than any other he'd seen. There was a large porch in the front with some rocking chairs and a few windows with little bland curtains. The farmer wasn't rich by any means, but he was clearly one of the ones doing 'ok' around those parts.

Bringing the horse to a stop just shy of the front porch, Syllis kicked a foot out behind him and hopped down. He wasn't one for riding horses, but if he showed up on foot, it would have looked suspicious. His booted feet thudding sharply against the boards of the front step before he stopped and knocked upon the front door. There was a long pause before it was flung open and Frank Tims stood there, looking a bit wild eyed and panting.

The man's face was drenched in sweat and he wasn't wearing any shoes. Syllis eyed him up and down thoughtfully before catching the scent of something he didn't particularly like. Without saying a word he simply brushed past the man, bumping into him harshly and storming into the home. Once inside he heard a muffled cry and a bang which sent him vaulting forward; his booted feet thundering against the floorboards as he began to run up a short flight of stairs— ignoring the farmer's screams at his back.

Rounding the top of the stairs he threw his shoulder into a door and entered a small bedroom. Just inside the door was a knee-high bed and upon it was a golden haired young woman with her arms bound above her and a gag in her mouth. Dropping down to one knee he removed the gag, listening to a howling scream and some growls. With a flushed face drenched in sweat, and eyes fluttering back in her head, the girl tugged wildly at the bonds.

"Mmm, she's dreaming. And a right fitful dream it is. Guess my warning for you to get some sleep wasn't going to do much. Not with her going on like this." The farmer at his back was flabbergasted, especially when Syllis started to untie the woman. "What the Hell are ya doin!? She's strong as an ox and she...she'll!"

Syllis ignored him again, easily taking the woman's hands in his and holding her down. "Sssshh, sshhh now, Miss. I want you to listen to my voice. It's night and the sky is filled with stars. The air is cool and the breeze feels good against your skin. Sit down amongst tall grass and enjoy the breeze. Just breath." After a moment the growling stopped and the woman seemed to settle down.

Syllis carefully placed her arms at her sides and then started to look the woman over, stopping at her shoulder and carefully peeling back a white night gown. Nodding as if to himself, Syllis pulled bandages away from the girl's shoulder. Once enough bandages were removed an angry wound was revealed, marring her pink flushed skin. "It's almost healed. We have less time than I thought we did."

Syllis continued tearing off the bandages, leaving the mangled bite marks open to the air. "Let the air get to it. That will help with the fever an' the fits." Tenderly he tugged a blanket up to the woman's chest and then brushed her golden hair away from her forehead. "What's her name?" The farmer had been gawking from the door, but at the question he stood up straight and cleared his throat. "Lily, her name is Lily." Syllis nodded a few times, eying the woman up and down thoughtfully before crossing his arms over his chest. "An' jus' how old is Miss Lily?" The farmer furled his brows tightly together before answering gruffly. "I don't see what that has to do wit nothin', but she turned nineteen last month."

Taking a deep breath, Syllis turned his back on the sleeping woman, moving to squeeze his way past the farmer and back out into the hallway. "Nineteen years old an' not married. Seems kind of odd 'round these parts. She not got a beau or any callers?" By now the farmer was puffing out his chest, moving to nearly slam the bedroom door with righteous indignation. "What the Hell kinda question is that!? My Lily is a virtuous girl! She's chosen to stay 'ere an' help me on the farm! It's been terrible 'ere for me since her mother died. She knows that!"

Syllis closed his eyes and nodded a few times, starting to slowly walk his way down the stairs. "So she knows it, but maybe not all the men folk care too much for it. That's a lovely daughter ya got there, Frank Tims. A lovely daughter that I think may have gotten bitten by this Werewolf 'cuz the _man_ , not the monster, wants her."

The shuffling of Tims' footsteps stopped momentarily at the top of the stairs. Syllis continued downward until he stopped at the front room. Raising his hands so that he locked them behind his head, Syllis stretched his body. "Any menfolk 'round 'ere that had an eye for Lily? Any ya suspected had an eye? Old ones, young ones, dun matter. Any kinda man can be a beast on the inside. Maybe she's had a childhood friend or a drifter came a callin that she showed kindness? Anyone at all you can think of?"

The farmer's voice faltered a little as he started to make his way down the stairs, each stair creaking as if bemoaning his weight. "I—I don't know. I mean, everybody loves Lily. I'm not sure I could ever bring myself to think someone would have...impure thoughts 'bout her." Syllis sighed heavily and nodded a few times. "I see. Well, I guess I can jus' keep an ear out 'round the town if nothin' else. If ya think of anyone, be sure to let me know. Imma go up into the hills an' look 'round."

Syllis went to the door, stopping short to look back at the sweaty and distraught farmer. Momentarily he felt sorry for the man and let out an exaggerated sigh. "She shoul' sleep soundly for a few hours at least. Go take a nap or get yaself cleaned up, maybe some food in ya belly? Jus' try to relax a bit. She's as safe as she's gunna get. She will recover from this. I know it seems bad, but the fever will break in a day or two an' ya Lily will wake up feelin good as new."

Syllis offered an encouraging nod before slipping out the door. It didn't settle well with him that this was a 'crime of passion.' Those were the worst to deal with. If this Werewolf was enamored with that beautiful blond woman, then the creature was definitely going to be hanging around and waiting for her to turn.

***
Chapter 5

Put Our Heads Together

Out in the wilderness Syllis was left to his thoughts and more than a little panged sympathy for the overwrought father. He began to imagine when the white men flooded into his village, and the elder told him to hide. All of his brothers and sisters were drug away to be placed on slave ships bound for the new world. Only a single individual would survive the harsh conditions of that long trip across the sea, and that single man would end up taking his own life the moment his feet reached land. Where Syllis had started out fueled by vengeance against the slavers, he'd eventually been lost to despair. Now, he drifted through endless life in hopes of finding small moments of peace through these sorts of cases.

His mind was so clouded over with thoughts of trying to give that father and his daughter a hint of peace in their life that once again the Tracker was oblivious to any comings or goings, until he heard a voice that sent shivers up his spine. "Ya've been starin' at the same spot on the ground for a good ten minutes. Have ya solved all world problems yet?"

Something whizzed past his ear, causing Syllis to reach up and swat around, irritatedly. At first he thought it was some sort of insect, but as he glanced to the ground near his feet, he realized that someone was throwing peanut shells. Groaning he moved to stand up, not bothering to turn around and address the Texas Ranger at his back. "I'm thinkin'. I'm sure that's somethin' ya know nothin' bout."

There was a deep rolling chuckle following him and it made goose bumps riddle luscious cocoa flesh. "Thinkin' bout that lassy an' her father? Do ya get the feeling that he's keeping something from you? I sure do. Did he tell ya which of his posse' were killed by the wolf?" Syllis stopped short, furling his brows as he finally turned back to the Ranger. At his sides, the Tracker clenched his fists, digging nails into his palms so he wouldn't react to those attractive features as they smacked him in the face.

"What are ya talkin' bout?" The Ranger stuffed another peanut into his mouth and munched down, chucking the shell unceremoniously at Syllis. This time the darker male ducked under it with a faint hiss. "Yeah me either. I had to ask 'round 'bout it— turns out that it killed some farm hands and a few random locals. The Farmer's brother and cousins made it back unscathed."

The words sank in and Syllis stood up a little straighter. "It didn't kill any of the girl's family." The Ranger winked one of those shining hazel eyes, instantly making Syllis' stomach feel as if it was full of fluttering butterflies. "Not as dumb as ya look. I'm glad we can finally speak like men. So then can we share information a lil' bit?"

The Tracker, felt his head lower and he shifted to the side, watching the Ranger as the other rounded, circling as if he was sizing the shorter male up. The two were both moving in slightly inhuman ways, though the Ranger was far more graceful and upright. Syllis was hunkered down, nostrils flaring and body shifting like a stalking animal. "Here we go with the sniffing, always with the sniffing. Damned vampires..."

It was as if someone had just crammed a nail made entirely of ice straight through Syllis' chest. His body went rigid and in an instant he turned on his heels. Where he once stood there was only a puff of dust as he fled off in a seemingly random direction. He had gone a couple of miles on foot before he stopped to put his back against a tree. Panting heavily a hand reached up to grip at his chest above his heart.

It was not a good time to be a vampire. While history had yet to reach medieval heights of repeating itself, there was fear that the humans were going to start amassing their Hunters once more— starting massive destruction of Supernatural creatures. These times often came when there was unrest between Earth and Hell. When vampires fought back against the demon hordes, demons responded by using humans as pawns against the vampires. Demons could wear the faces of mortals and mislead them quite easily.

No one had used the word 'vampire' around him in over a year. The fear that spread through The Tracker's body was so intense that his knees were knocking together. Was it possible that he'd been led unwittingly into some kind of demon trap? Sometimes paranoia was based on real happenings. Swallowing hard the Tracker tried to force thoughts into his mind about what to do next, when from above a peanut shell plunked him atop the hat. "Are ya done bein' dramatic? I asked ya to share information with me."

Letting out a hissing growl, Syllis stumbled forward, nearly tripping over a branch as he swung around to look upwards. High above him in a tree, the Texas Ranger sat with his booted feet dangling as he munched on peanuts from a little handheld burlap sack. "Wh—who... _what_ are you??" The Ranger merely shook his head a little. "I already introduced myself. Name's Markus Elkin. You were the one that didn't bother to be gentlemanly with me. Now will ya stop actin' like a pissed off cat an' talk to me? I saw ya go into the house; get any details 'bout the girl? Didja' see the bite?"

Syllis continued to back-peddle until he ended up bumping into another tree. Swallowing hard he slid down the tree and rested on his butt, staring up at the other thoughtfully. "Syllis—Syllis Cox." The Ranger snorted and shook his head. "Cox eh? Ya think that up yaself? Of course ya did." Syllis watched as the black-clad figure placed a hand down against the tree limb he was sitting and pushed of; practically floating through the air before settling down against the dusty ground with a jangle of his silver spurs. "Ridiculous name aside; come on, out with something useful. You're beginning to get boring. I can only get so much enjoyment out of scarin' the shit outta ya and pitching peanut shells at ya face." To punctuate the sentence he flicked a shell towards Syllis, only missing hitting the other in the nose because the vampire whipped out his hand to flick it away. "It moves! Hallelujah!"

Syllis growled faintly before taking down his hat, smacking it against his knee before clearing his throat. "Ah, yeah I went in the house. Man had the girl bound an' gagged cuz she was kicking up such a fuss." The cocoa skinned male suddenly sat up straighter, his eyes going a little wide. "As if he was tryin to keep other people from hearin her, but their farm is so far out. Who woul' he be keepin from hearin' her??"

The Ranger smirked a little, leaning his arm against the tree over Syllis' head. "Who indeed. It's curious ain't it? When I asked 'bout the attack, he told me weren't nothin' to worry 'bout. Said his girl was just bit on the arm by a wild dog. He hadn't heard nothin' bout no big wild beast; musta been somethin' different from what I was huntin. I had to get info 'bout the dead huntin' party members from someone else entirely. He's not real forthcoming with me at all."

Syllis furled his brows tightly together, looking up at the other then glancing down. He was lost deeply in thought for a moment before looking to the Ranger again. From his vantage point on the ground, with Markus leaning over him, glancing upwards meant, Syllis nearly got a face-full of The Rangers' crotch. Syllis' actually had to gulp and avert his eyes before continuing. "Why wouldn't he want the help of a Texas Ranger? Why come to some nobody like me an' send you away? Even gag his daughter so ya wouldn't hear her growlin...?"

Markus winked down at Syllis; that perfect motion which the vampire had seen in his dreams would have brought him to his knees if he weren't already in a seated position. "Why indeed."

The vampire quickly shook his head, both to try and clear away the heat that was building beneath his skin and in an attempt to form coherent thoughts about this situation. "So there's more goin on here than meets the eye." A hand was jut out in front of Syllis' face. Honey amber eyes blinked a few times in a confused way. Glancing upwards as if he didn't quite understand, he watched Markus nod towards the hand. "Come on then, don't tell me ya too good to take my damned hand." Swallowing hard the vampire took the offered hand and used it to pull to a standing position. "Perhaps the two of us should watch the father a lil bit hmm?" Dumbly the vampire nodded, chewing his bottom lip.

"Mmm, that's not a bad idea, I guess. I'll go slip into town an'..." Syllis quirked a brow as he was met with a firm shaking of the Ranger's head. "Naw naw, that won't work. I'll go ask around in town. The townspeople are pretty open to talkin to me. I'll drudge up some information. Why don't you stick to the outskirts, the forest, an' watch over the farm house eh?"

Syllis puffed out his chest, feeling heat flood to his cheeks. "What the Hell?? What ya tryin to say??" The Texas Ranger reached out a fingertip and drug it along the Tracker's cheek. Syllis froze in place, honey eyes going wide at the feel of that smooth finger tracing its way from just below his eye all the way to his chin. "While I think the color of ya skin looks delicious, not a lot of folk 'round 'ere share my tastes. Get me?"

For a long moment, Syllis could do nothing but stare at Markus' delectable lips. Was it just his imagination or was the strange black-clad figure flirting with him? Taking a step away from the touches, Syllis crossed arms over his chest and offered a scoff. His nose jutted into the air as he looked away. "Whatever." He said with no small amount of bitterness clinging to the undertones of his voice.

The Ranger sighed heavily, offering no further argument on the matter. "So then we are in agreement. If I hear anythin' interesting, I'll find you." Before Syllis could even look back to where Markus was once standing; he was just gone.

A faint wind kicked up, blowing dust around Syllis' feet as he stared at the spot where Markus had once been standing. There was a strange feeling in the pit of his stomach. That Texas Ranger scared him absolutely to death. The other seemed to know far too much, but was he really dangerous or just some annoying Trickster?

It was possible that was exactly what the creature to be; the features, gentle smells and other such would make sense in that respecct. Still, there was something so familiar about Markus. It left an ache in Syllis when the other disappeared. "I'm just lonely. It's been so long...I mean Hell, look at me! I'm talkin' to myself." Groaning he turned on his heels and vanished into the wilderness beyond the town.

***

Chapter 6

More Than Meets the Eye

Syllis searched the woods behind the town proper at least three times. He wasn't certain what he was looking for anymore. Perhaps he was just waiting to see if Markus would return. The thought both sickened and excited him. With a heavy sigh the fading darkness made him realize that he probably would not see the Texas Ranger again that evening.

Begrudgingly he returned to the farm house in order to poke around. Though he was going through the motions of investigating a wolf, his mind was still drifting back to that damnable Markus Elken and the way he winked his hazel eyes. Syllis couldn't remember the last time he'd ever been taken with someone in this way. It had probably been a century since he'd actually pined for anyone, and that love affair was frightening and short-lived.

A rush of wolf musk forced any thoughts of ancient loneliness aside. The vampire crouched behind a tree and eyed the back of the farm house. Through the darkness he followed the scent, right up to the back and then scaled a few windows until he was peeking into one where the scent was particularly strong. He sneezed and shook his head as he was staring right into where he was sure he had tucked Miss Lily into her bed hours earlier. Boldly he leaned down to sniff the window sill, catching fresh scent of the wolf musk. It was definitely male and it had been there that very evening. "Aren't you a cocky some'bitch."

Syllis was about to drop to the ground and try to follow the scent back off into what he would assume was the woody areas, when another scent caught his nose. It was recently burned embers and that same faint musk, only this was much older. Turning away from the woods as if being pulled by a far too curious thread, he kept tightly to the shadows as he entered the rear of one of the tall barns. There was a pile of ashes near the farthest corner with a scant few embers still twitching within. Amber honey eyes swept left and right before he hunkered over the pile and started to poke through it curiously.

"What the Hell...?" Most of whatever had been hastily burned was far too taken by the flames to be recognizable, but there were a scant few objects still only partially burned. Dark hands snatched up a piece of charred paper with only a tiny bit of writing visible. "My Dearest Lil..." Furling his brows tightly together he tossed the piece of parchment back within the smoldering coals and fished inside again. There was something glittering in the moonlight and he dug through the heat towards the faint twinkle; coming up with a lovely necklace in the shape of a rose dangling on a silver chain. The vampire's lips puckered out to the point he looked like he was sucking on a lemon. The last of the objects was the cover of a leather bound journal, but all the pages had been torn out.

Rubbing at his chin thoughtfully the Tracker moved to tuck the necklace into a little pouch at his hip before stealing away into the night. The sun would be coming up soon and he needed time to ponder on the pile of ashes. There was no way that Lily was in any condition to dump those objects into a pile and torch them, so then who had set them ablaze? Did the Werewolf try to destroy evidence of having known the victim and her family, or was there something even more mind-boggling going on?

It was all giving the dark-skinned male quite the headache. Though he hated relying on other people, there was a faint hope in his stomach that Markus would have some sort of insight into the situation when next they met. Or perhaps it was just that he hoped Markus would seek him out and he would have a chance to sling insults with the Texas Ranger again.

As Syllis wedged his body into the small crack between rocks, high above the tree tops and hidden away from prying eyes, the first of daylight was beginning to show over the horizon. Grunting he punched and prodded at his knapsack, trying to get a bit more comfortable in the cramped space. The Tracker was utterly exhausted and the complexity of the case was really starting to wear on him.

By now he would usually have some sort of head-way in finding the monster. This one seemed content to languish in the shadows. It had not attacked any other people, and there wasn't even any evidence of eaten animals nearby. It was as if the Werewolf had bed down and was silently watching everything that was going on; biding his time until the full moon was high. Syllis had to act fast, because when Lily turned there would no longer be just one monster out amongst the darkness, but two. The newly turned being the more dangerous.

The vampire wasn't aware when he drifted off into a deep and over-powering sleep. His mind was still awash with the torrents of this maddening case. He slept hard within his rocky crypt until he felt movement against his body. Startled from such a deep slumber his eyes flew open; finding a hand against his mouth. A thumb brushed his bottom lip and as he opened his mouth in a threatening hiss, that thumb promptly shoved past his lips and into the angry waiting wetness.

"Ssshhh; plan on giving away ya little hidey hole? That's not very vampiric of you." Those honey eyes went as wide as saucers as he realized that he was now face to face with Texas Ranger, Markus Elkin. More-over, he had the other's peanut oil tasting thumb shoved forcefully into his mouth.

Attempting to speak he wriggled backwards, ending up just wedging his body more harshly against a rock face within the small space. The Ranger moved in closer, thrusting his thumb in and out of the vampire's mouth with a lewd sort of motion. "It's still light out. Where ya gunna go, even if I were to let ya out? Ya not a Day Walker, else ya'd be out already trying to rustle up a Werewolf. So why don't ya just relax an' do what those eyes have wanted to do since we first met."

A knee was rather sharply wedged between the vampire's thighs and started to lift, pressing up against Syllis almost to the point that it was a bit too uncomfortable. He had the urge to bite down on that thumb within his mouth, which he did, but not as hard as he planned. Giving the other an indignant look, he bit down lightly, scraping his fangs along the flesh before rolling his tongue around and sucking, his head rocking with the motion of that thrusting digit.

Markus grinned into that angry dark face, his free hand working to brush away the black bandana at his throat and unbutton a few buttons of his matching shirt. He pushed the cloth away from the slightly sweaty flesh of his neck and shoulder. Syllis' blinked a few times, continuing to suck on the other's thumb as the defiant look turned to one of confusion.

"You can't hope to go up against a Werewolf of this magnitude with as weakened as ya are. Living out in the middle of nowhere...snackin' on little fuzzy animals?" Short curls lapped at the exposed throat as Markus shook his head. "You need something stronger, something _a lot_ stronger if ya hope to get through this without getting ya heart ripped out."

Syllis managed to reach up, gripping the other by the wrist and plucking the thumb from his mouth with a sharp wet popping sound. "I won't." He said in a husky and wanton tone. The vampire instantly choked on the sound of his own voice. The Ranger was moving his knee back and forth, using his knee to bump and rub against a growing heat between Syllis' knees. "Yes, you will. Come on, ya know this is good for both people. I want you to do it. I ain't repeating that either so take it for what it is and get over here." Markus reached down, replacing his knee with a hand, giving a tight squeeze coupled with a cheeky grin. "I know you want me."

The vampire shook his head, trying to keep in control of his faculties, but that hard squeeze coupled with that saucy grin made a feral growl bubble up from deep within his gut. They were so tightly pressed together within a small space that Markus' scent was just everywhere. It was like the worst type of teasing, and it felt so familiar. Nothing about it seemed like a random encounter, but more like two old friends meeting again after centuries. Both of Syllis' hands reached down to grip Markus by the hips and jerk him in tightly, grinding against the other as he pressed his nose to that luscious throat and gave a deep sniff.

"You want me too." Syllis purred as he flicked out his tongue and ran it along that salty flesh, moving from the other's collar bone all the way up to his chin and stopping just short of his lips. He puffed a deep breath into the other's face before grinning in an amused way. "I can taste your arousal. It's so much better...when you want it so bad it hurts." One hand squeezed sharply at Markus' hip, digging his nails in sharply; only the cloth saving the Ranger from what would have surely been bruising or even cuts. The other hand slid around and started to move up and down at the crotch of his black trousers, slowly at first then a bit faster before eventually just jerking them unfastened and slipping straight down the front to grip the hardened prize inside.

Markus began to squirm; doing his best to remain in control of the situation, but the way that Syllis growled was enough to make the hair stand up on the back of his neck. Heaving gasps filled the tiny space and when his hard prick finally had flesh brushing against it, there came a pining groan. One hand gripped at Syllis' shoulder and the other that had been rubbing at his front started to hurriedly work at the other's pants to unfasten them so they were both squeezing and clumsily stroking at heated flesh in the cramped space. "Do it damn you. Bite me!" Markus groaned through clenched teeth, his head falling back and body pressed tightly against the vampire.

Despite the demand, Syllis held onto the moment, a hand smoothing up the other's back and then gripping him by those lovely silken light brown curls. He jerked the other's head backwards and hissed low and dangerous. Fangs flashed in the darkness; Markus' eyes barely open as he stared up at the other, still grinning in his Cheshire way.

"Can ya make it feel good with that snaggled fang of yours?" The vampire didn't have four perfect long fangs like others of his kind. He had the two traditional k-nines, the accompanying sharp tips behind them and the bottom sharp teeth to match, but one of his lovely k-nine fangs was broken— a rather large chunk missing.

Syllis stared down at the wanton man, holding him bent backwards at an uncomfortable arch while stroking at his throbbing cock. His mouth was partially open to accommodate the large pointed fangs. The vampire flicked out his tongue and ran it languidly along the one perfect point of the unbroken fang, eyebrows climbing up his forehead. "I guess you're about to find out." A red ring appeared around the pupils of his eyes, and red striations rocketed through the whites like lightning made of blood shooting through them.

The movement as the vampire lunged forward to sink his fangs into the Ranger's shoulder was just a blur. There was no time to cry out or even gasp. The hazel eyed man gave a faint jerking motion as pin-prick pain filtered into his mind, but then a rush of pleasure more glorious than any orgasm over-took the experience and he could only groan, abandoning to the vampire's whims.

The vampire gave a slight jerk of his head, making sure to tear at the flesh just slightly, as if to leave a larger mark than was necessary. His lips wrapped around the flesh and he started to suck, the blood hitting his tongue and clashing through his system in a way that actually knocked him backwards off the man in shock.

A kaleidoscope of colors swirled in front of the vampire's eyes as he swallowed down the mouthful of blood he'd managed to gather before falling backwards in awe. His tongue flicked out as he started to lap at his lips, gathering up any scant drops that managed to escape. Everything seemed far too bright, he could hear the scrape of a chair against a wood floor several miles away, and smell every lunch dish being cooked in every direction. His head swam with the sheer volume and power held within that blood.

The two men were still pressed bodily together, and Markus groaned, shoving at Syllis' dusty trousers. Soon both the men had their pants down to their thighs and their pricks were rubbing against one another. The vampire was vaguely aware that Markus cupped his cheeks and pulled him so they were nose to nose.

"That's better...isn't it?" The vampire moaned in response; the urge to rock his hips kicking in as he started to grind against the other. "Mmm. Wha—what are you??" He breathed into the other's face, opening his eyes to stare into those lovely hazel irises looking back at him. There was no response, only lips crushed against his as the movements sped up between them.

Syllis' fumbled to put his arms around Markus in the small space as their lips and tongues tangled clumsily. The vampire felt like he would die in those arms before he came. He whimpered into Markus' mouth, pulling back only when he felt a rush of warmth against his own twitching cock. Syllis cried out faintly as he spilled seed between them; the scent of both their completions filling his little sleeping cave.

Syllis tried to hold onto Markus, mumbling sleepily against the other and placing kisses against his stubble-covered chin. "Mmm, stay. Stay with me." Markus panted heavily, his entire body trembling before he let out a heavy chuckle. "No way in Hell I'm sleeping in this filthy hole. Sleep well. Tonight you'll be stronger an' more focused."

Syllis mumbled, whimpering faintly and groping at the warm body against him. He was vaguely aware of a kiss to his forehead and hands pulling up his pants. Again a deep sleep completely overcame the vampire and it would be sundown before he even moved again in the slightest.

Groaning he rolled over, cracking an eye open and glancing around at the small space. At first he assumed it had all be another crazy wet dream until he pulled up a hand and sniffed at the now crusty mess on his palm. "Oh shite. He was really here."

***
Chapter 7

Time to Catch a Predator

It was a long while before Syllis could even think about crawling towards the mouth of his little hiding place. The shock of what transpired hours before in that cramped space took quite a bit sink in. The vampire wasn't sure how he should feel about the strange encounter with the gorgeous Texas Ranger. Despite the fact that it was rushed, and occurred in less than perfect conditions; the thrum of how good it felt pressed against that warm body was still tingling through his body. It also meant that he was rather sticky, and in some places a bit crusty.

When he finally emerged out into the open air, the vampire immediately went to the nearby stream so that he could bathe. As he bent over the trickling water he considered how he might react to the Ranger when he met him again. The Werewolf was still on the loose, so likely they would run into one another. What was Syllis going to say when presented with those dreamy hazel eyes? He truly didn't have a clue and trying to contemplate the interaction too hard was making the vampire's head thrum with a rush of psychedelic colors. The act of taking in that robust blood was beyond anything the vampire could comprehend. There was only one other instance that he could recall in which he'd taken in blood so rich and entrancing.

Syllis stared into the water, suddenly going still as the bubbling brook cascaded over tiny pebbles. The vampire could almost feel where the root of that water source began. He was certain that in a matter of moments he could follow it back its source, burrow deep within the Earth and suckle from the teat of Mother Earth. He drew in a breath and clutched his chest, doubling over faintly as his eyes stung with unshed tears from long emotions past. "He's like...Him. Markus is like that Lord I met. Elliot was his name. Gods it's been so long since I thought of that night. The blood; I was practically drunk on it. But I could see and hear the world just like this."

The memory of such an old love-affair made a tender wistful smile appear on the vampire's features. It had been just one night, but he felt as if he'd known Elliot his entire life. It was the same with Markus. If he had time to consider it long enough, the vampire might have drawn a lot more similarities between the two strange men. The potency of their blood wasn't the only thing they had in common. Unfortunately, when you were as old as the dark-skinned vampire, the haunting look from a pair of beautiful hazel eyes might be lost to the Sands of Time; especially when your senses were now so perfectly in-tune with the world.

Syllis could see, hear, smell, feel, and even _taste_ his environment so perfectly that when a clawed foot touched down miles away he felt the 'skitchy skitchy' movement like the nails were running down his own spine. In one instant he was hunkered over the trickling cool water, and the next he was moving more swiftly than he could recall moving in ages. The wind kissed at his cheeks as he lifted up over tree tops like a bird of prey, doing a flip in the air before landing silently in a crouch on a treelimb a good quarter mile from the Tims' farm house. The ring of red around his pupils almost seemed to pulsate in the darkness as he fixated his gaze on the enormous creature walking slowly up the backyard towards the window where Syllis had smelled the musk the night previous.

The Werewolf was a rather impressive specimen. It stood well over eight foot tall and had a lustrous coat of silver grey fur. It walked on two legs, large clawed furry arms swinging at its side as the wolf-like head fixed its gaze up towards the window of the young woman. In an instant the vampire was standing a few yards behind it, arms crossed over his chest as he watched it creep closer to the house. "A bit of a bold move don'tcha think? Returnin' 'ere night after night...thinkin' what? That I wasn't gunna catch up eventually? Are ya cocky or jus' desperate?"

Syllis stood his ground as the creature swung round and stared at him with bright blue, nearly silver eyes. The wolf's lips pulled back in a terrifying snarl; rows of sharp teeth nearly as long as a man's hand revealed in the moonlight. The bright white and blue light of the moon caused Syllis to glance upwards for a split second. There was only a sliver of moon left before it would be full. Tomorrow the change would be upon young Lily.

He was about to spout off something else smart to the Wolf when the creature's head lifted and it started to sniff. Before the vampire could open his mouth the creature dropped to all fours and darted for the line of trees. Startled by the sudden action; the vampire back-peddled just in time to hear a shot ring out into the night.

With a hiss he fell back, crouching in the shadows as he saw the young girl's father come running around the back of the property and fire another shot towards the Werewolf. Concentrating he watched the small flashing explosion as the bullet left the end of the barrel; he slowed it's trajectory so that he could see it as it whizzed past and headed towards the line of trees. As it glinted brightly in the moonlight his suspicions were confirmed. "Silver..." He whispered, before turning and disappearing into the forest.

Three more shots were fired in the direction of the Werewolf as it thundered through the tree-line. Syllis wet his lips, ducking under a few limbs as he followed closely, finding it rather easy to keep up. This wolf was fast and clearly strong. The vampire watched it swipe a tree and knock it right out of its way by uprooting it entirely. However, now that the vampire had drunk deeply from the strange inhuman man, Markus Elkin, he could keep up well enough. It also gave him the opportunity to consider those silver bullets that were flying out of the gun, and the fact that the wolf put up no resistance against the farmer shooting them. Sure he might have somehow known that there were silver bullets in that gun, but if that was the case, wouldn't he storm after Tims and rip him to pieces?

"Curious turn of events isn't it?" Syllis jerked his head to the side, blinking in shock as he saw Markus Elkin floating at his heels. "What the...?? Never mind, I don't have time to even comprehend what the Hell is happening right now. I have to catch up with the wolf." Markus nodded a few times, having no trouble keeping up with the vampire. "Yes, yes you do. But what are you going to do when you catch him? Do you see the way he moves? How his scent mingles with the Earth. This is a very old creature, perhaps ancient even— not unlike yourself hmm?"

The vampire planted his feet against the ground and vaulted upwards, doing a swift summersault and landing in a crouch high in the top of a tree. He spun in a circle and looked downwards, managing to have gotten in front of the racing Werewolf. "An Elder Wolf? Mmm. Maybe, dammit!" Leaning backwards in a quick roll he spun thrice in the air before landing on the ground below. The wolf immediately dug clawed feet into the dirt, skidding to a stop while letting out a guttural growl. "Whoooa there big fella. You an' I need to have a little chat." The response he received was a quick swipe of a claw towards his head. Ducking under it he rolled forward and kicked a foot out towards the Wolf's left ankle, attempting it make it stumble. "I said! I wanted to _talk_!" Rolling across the dirt, using his short stature and speed to kick again he heard a howl as the creature stumbled, before the vampire rolled to his feet.

"Now then, about this Miss Lily." Syllis' eyes grew wide as the wolf ripped a tree trunk from the ground and hurled it towards him, smashing the vampire in the chest and sending him sprawling. There was a cackling laugh and the sound of someone slapping their knee. "Ah! You do look good on your back." Syllis coughed a few times, looking up to see Markus sitting on his rear in a tree over-head, feet swinging back and forth.

"Are ya jus' gunna sit on ya arse or are ya gunna help me!?" The Ranger glanced upwards, pursing his lips in thought. "Mmm, think Imma sit here." By now the Wolf had lifted the tree up again and was bringing it crashing down towards the vampire as if he meant to smash him into oblivion.

Gasping, the vampire rolled out of the way just before he was turned into compost. "Why isn't he attacking you too!?" The vampire cried out in an exasperated tone. The Ranger just roared with laughter, kicking his feet back and forth. Syllis ducked another swing of the enormous tree trunk, almost smacking his own cheek when a realization hit him as hard as the tree would have. "He can't see you. Ah shite, please don't tell me I've finally lost my mind after all these years." The laughter grew louder and Syllis just shook his head. "OK Mister Wolf! You an' I are gunna settle this one way or 'nother."

Planting his feet into the dirt the vampire squared off, closing his eyes and setting his posture to upright and yet somehow relaxed. A faint wind kicked up around his feet as if driven by his very Will. When the wolf swung again the large piece of wood was caught neatly between Syllis' small hands. His feet went digging into the dirt, being shoved back several feet before he simply stopped dead. The wolf was momentarily taken aback, letting out a curious growling sound.

When Syllis opened his eyes, the crimson ring around his pupil was bright against the moonlight, and the lightning striations throughout the whites were gleaming in every direction. Veins at the corners of his eyes started to pop out, those also having that sharp red tinge to them, making puffy red marks rise to the top of his cocoa cream flesh.

"I have no desire to destroy an Elder being. However, I shall defend myself to the best of my abilities. Do you really want this dry Earth to run red with the blood of The Ancients?" Syllis' voice vibrated through the air, echoing off every rock and tree, lifting up to the moon above like a boom that wedged itself into the mind and forced all creatures in earshot to lower their heads in respect. The Werewolf took a few stumbling steps backwards, releasing the large tree trunk.

With a heavy sigh, Syllis tossed it to the side like a dry twig. The vampire thought the situation at hand, but in an instant the wolf was on him again, lunging with claws at the ready. Growling the vampire met the motion with his fingers flexed. Soon the two were literally grappling, the vampire feeling sharp claws digging into his knuckles. He jerked his head to the side, dodging snapping jaws. The scent of his blood flittered up into the air from the cuts at his hands and as the furry creature drew in a deep breath, it began to shift back into human form.

The vampire blinked a few times as he found himself face to face with a blond haired, blue eyed, naked man, gripping tightly to his hands and staring down at him. The man was a good foot taller than the vampire, panting heavily from the interchange. Instantly as their eyes met, the wolf turned man, bowed his head and started to release his grip on Syllis. "Forgive me. One can say they are of ancient blood, but it can always be trickery. Or perhaps one of the lesser respected lineages. Yours however; I know that scent. I have only met your sire one time, but I am incredibly blessed to even claim that. There are few creatures in the world that have had the privilege of laying eyes upon The Pharaoh."

Syllis made a face and rubbed at his knuckles, taking a step back and attempting not to stare at the washboard abs or lack of covering for anything else on the man before him. "Great, so I don't get to end this debacle on my own merits but because my father is famous." Honey eyes rolled in an exaggerated fashion before he sighed heavily and offered a shrug. "Oh well, at least we're talkin' instead of fighting. I go by 'Syllis Cox' 'round 'ere but my given name is Cyrus." The man nodded a few times, offering a faint bow. "I did not wish to fight you, or anyone for that matter. I was not certain of your intentions. And my name is Nicholas."

The vampire leaned against a tree, still rubbing at his healing knuckles. "Intentions, yeah that's definitely a conversation to have. I have somethin' that I've been wonderin' if you might know somethin' about." Wiggling his nose thoughtfully, Syllis reached to his side, fishing for the necklace out of his pack. He held it up, dangling the little charm before the wolf. The other blinked a few times as it glinted in the moonlight. "Why do you have Lily's necklace?" The vampire nodded a few times. "So you do know this? You weren't the one burning it out behind the farm house, then?" The wolf man put a hand to his chest as if wounded. "Burn it?? Heaven's no! I gave that to Lily for her birthday. She absolutely adored it. I told her a story of a Desert Rose and well...I gave it to her with the promise to remove her from this mundane existence."

Syllis blinked his honey eyes a few times, eyebrows climbing up his forehead. "Come again?" Nicholas let out a heavy sigh and shook his head. "I'm afraid you are laboring under a terrible assumption in this situation. You believe that I bit Lily against her Will. That is simply not the case. Lily is my mate. It is her father that is holding her against her Will. I am biding my time waiting for the full moon, so that we may finally be away from this place."

The vampire looked stunned, not really knowing how to react to this new information, or even if he should believe it. The girl's father seemed so distraught over his daughter's predicament. Shaking his head several times he held up his other hand. "Wait what? I don't understand."

Nicholas moved in closer, placing a palm under the dangling rose pendant lovingly. "Lily's father is an over-bearing man that has kept her locked away from the world. He sees his dead wife in his daughter, and refuses to let her go out into the world. I met Lily when she was sixteen; she was such a daring and fearless young woman. Over the years I grew to love her and she me." His hand wrapped around the rose and as he started to tug it away from the vampire, Syllis found he could do nothing but release the chain.

"I found it hard to believe she would still love me after she found out what I am. I am a born Werewolf, Sir Cyrus. My father is an Elder and I an Alpha of a nearby pack. To my astonishment, she said she did not care and that she wanted to run away with me."

Syllis stared at the wolf man, searching for any twinge in his body that might give away untruth to his words, but he could find nothing but sincerity in his blazing blue eyes. "Lily had been running away at night to meet me, but her father was growing suspicious. The night I bit her, he had followed us and saw my transformation."

Nicholas shut his eyes, clutching the necklace to his chest as he shook his head. "The man rounded up men to kill me. They chased me down during the day and shot me where I slept." The vampire suddenly held up his hands. "Whoa whoa, wait a minute. The 'posse' he rounded up to chase down the wolf; they hunted you down as a _man_ and _shot_ you!?"

Nicholas opened his eyes, looking back to the other as he nodded a few times. "Yes. Thankfully, they did not know to use silver bullets at the time. I was deeply wounded, but managed to escape into the forest. They followed the next night, and so I decided to try and leave a bit of a warning for them to stop."

Syllis reached up to pinch the bridge of his nose. "That's when you tore apart the four men, the ones that weren't family." The blond nodded. "I could not bring myself to harm Lily's blood. Even if her father is a terrible man, I would never harm her that way. As for the others; they knew not what they were doing."

The dark-skinned male spun around and punched a tree so hard his fist went right through it, shattering off a large chunk with a spray of splinters. "Son of a bitch!" The wolf man seemed unmoved; he merely took a deep breath and let it out slowly. "Lily will turn tomorrow— you know this. If I am not there to over-see the transformation, she will descend on whomever she sees first. Will you suffer her eternity knowing that she ate her own father in a fit of bloodlust?"

Syllis snorted faintly, shaking his hand as if the punch to the tree made his fist sting. "Even if he deserved it? Mmm, vampires are known for their macabre sense of humor ya know." Nicholas shook his head. "Not your bloodline."

Sighing heavily the dark-skinned vampire hung his head. "I suppose I have some thinking to do. And you need to put on some pants." The blond glanced down at his own body thoughtfully. "I mean, I'm enjoying the view, but if there's to be a conversation with Dear-Old-Dad tomorrow, ya might need pants."

The two men ended up smiling at one another and nodding in an understanding way. Nicholas turned as if he was going to leave then stopped abruptly. "Oh umm, who were you talking to earlier?" Syllis froze abruptly and glanced around at the tree tops, not immediately seeing the hazel eyed Texas Ranger. "Ya know...I'm not entirely certain."

***
Chapter 8

Is It Fate

Syllis felt completely drained once he was left to his own devices. This simple case of a Werewolf bite had turned out to be not-so-simple. The emotions mingled in were enough to make him feel sick. He didn't figure there was much use in 'investigating' anymore. The vampire slid up into his tiny hole away from the world and sat in the darkness staring at nothing. A part of him silently wished that Markus would join him in that lonely crypt, but even after sleep washed throughout his entire being, he remained cold and alone.

He awoke just after sunset the next day, feeling a bit more refreshed, but no less alone. The vampire was beginning to think that he'd merely dreamt Markus into existence. It had been so long since he'd had any sort of bodily comfort that it wasn't entirely out of the question to believe he'd imagine a beautiful man. The Texas Ranger was perfect in every way, and the how the two of them got along as if they were old friends; more and more it seemed an improbable dream.

By the time Syllis had drug his booted feet all the way to the Tims' farm house, there was a sinking feeling in the pit of his stomach and his heart felt heavy. The vampire had spent centuries lonely and tortured by his own monstrous existence. If there was even a chance that two people could live together timelessly, with loving feelings between them; he was going to fight for that. Swallowing hard his fist lifted to the front door and he wrapped sharply, listening to the sound of two sets of footsteps on the other side.

The door took a long moment to open, but when it finally slid open a crack, Frank Tims was standing there with a smile upon his face. " _Ah_! Oh, hello there. It's good to see ya in one piece. I thank ya kindly for all ya've done. That uh...problem must be all taken care of right?" Syllis quirked a brow, but didn't say anything. "Papa? Who's that at the door?" There was a soft and kind voice of a young woman coming from beyond. "It's nothing, Lily! Nothin no mind for you to pay!" The farmer laughed nervously before looking back to Syllis. "My Lily woke up this mornin' as pretty as a peach. Everythin's back to normal. I thank ya kindly, now if you'll excuse me."

Just before the door was slammed in his face, Syllis lifted a hand and caught it, starting to give a rather strong shove. "Afraid it ain't back to nothin' even close to 'normal,' Frank Tims." The vampire continued to shove, waltzing right into the farm house without an invitation. Standing at the bottom of the stairs was the young blond woman, with her hair pulled back in a braid, wearing a long blue dress. A smile crossed his features and he offered a sweeping bow, reaching up to tug down his brown dusty hat. "An' ya must be Miss Lily. It's a pleasure to see ya up an' on ya feet." The woman's blue eyes went a little wide and a hand clutched to her chest. "I—I know you."

The farmer was sputtering, his face flushing bright red before he started to flail his hands in the air. "Oh no no, ya can't know this man. He's just some drifter. An' he ain't welcome. I ask ya to kindly leave, a'fore ya upset my daughter. She's up on her feet, but she still ain't recovered fully from the ordeal she's been through."

The woman ignored her father's protests, taking a few shuffling steps forward and reaching out a hand as if she might touch Syllis. "I saw you in my dreams. As plain as day; I'd never forget those eyes. But...there was red in 'em." Syllis smiled a little before offering a nod. "Yes, Miss Lily. Looks like ya have a strong bond with that man'a'yours. Guess what Nicholas told me wasn't jus' puffin smoke."

The hand which was outstretched towards him suddenly pulled back and pressed against her cheek. Lily gasped, blue eyes staring incredulously. "Nicholas?? You know Nicholas? Is he all right??" Her gaze swung towards her father with a look of confusion. "Papa? You said Nicholas was killed by bandits. I don't understand."

Syllis shut his eyes, head hanging forward a bit before shaking to and fro. "Now, Frank Tims. She wakes up an' that's what ya greet her with? I had hoped we coul' all work this out, but if it's like that, I'm afraid this ain't gunna go very friendly-like. Miss Lily, Nicholas is fine. No thanks to the posse that ya father hired to shoot him in cold blood. Then when that didn't go his way, he hired me to kill him. Luckily, me an' Nicholas were able to settle it man-to-man."

Red-faced and practically foaming at the mouth, the farmer dashed to the wall, jerking down a rifle and pointing it directly at the darker skinned male. "You get the Hell off my property! My Lily ain't goin nowhere with nobody! Ya hear me!?" Calmly, Syllis flicked out his tongue and wet his lips. "That ain't up to you. What stands 'ere ain't ya daughter no more. Her new family gunna come to claim 'er tonight an' not a damned thing ya can do to stop 'em."

The human lifted the gun, his cheek resting against it as he put a bead right between Syllis' eyes. "Like Hell there's not." With a sigh the cocoa skinned man shook his head, watching as the farmer drew back the hammer. "I really suggest ya put the gun down."

Lily's shrill scream lit up the air at about the exact moment that the shot rang out. The front door flew open and Nicholas stood in the doorway. "LILY!?" The blond woman was standing in the center of the room with her hands over her ears. Opposite her, Syllis was holding the end of a gun barrel, forcing it up into the air. Some dust had fluttered from overhead where the shot hit the ceiling and rained down debris. The farmer was staring at the vampire with wide eyes, his mouth agape in shock and awe. "What...what are...??" He stammered as Syllis jerked the gun away from his trembling hands. "It takes a monster to hunt a monster." Turning away from the farmer he watched as Nicholas rushed to Lily, her arms flung out to embrace the man.

"Oh Lily, my dearest Lily!" Nicholas' face shoved into her golden locks. The woman gripped him tightly. "I thought I'd lost you, Nick!" He lifted her up off the floor and spun in a circle. "You'll never lose me." As he sat her down, the two leaned back just enough to smile into one another's faces. Syllis was smiling thoughtfully. "Well isn't that nice..."

However, the reunion was short-lived. Bright moonlight beamed through the open doorway and cast a blue glow across Lily's face. Instantly she shrank from her lover's grasp and gripped her abdomen. A sharp cry erupted into the night, which slowly turned into a growl and then a wolf-like howl. "Oh shite." Syllis muttered before turning to grab the farmer by the arm. "Time to go!"

Syllis fought to tug the inconsolable father from the house, but the farmer kept tugging back; screaming the young girl's name. Growling faintly the vampire ended up ducking his head and throwing the human bodily over his shoulder and fleeing out the front door. "Come on dammit! Else ya gunna be dog food!"

He dashed across the front yard and rounded to the back with the full grown man kicking and screaming. Once they were a good fifty yards from ground-zero of the transformation, Syllis leaned forward and threw the farmer to the dusty ground with a grunt. "Dammit man! I'm trying to save your life! She won't be able to control herself!" Pressing his knuckles to his lower back, Syllis straightened himself up, groaning slightly as his spine gave a few crackling sounds. "Damn you're heavy."

The old man sobbed hysterically, pawing at the ground and crying out for his daughter. Shaking his head slowly, Syllis eventually ended up with the man slobbering on his boots. The vampire made a face and just stood there. It was the most pathetic scene he'd ever known. He tried to imagine what it would be like to have a child about to leave with a Werewolf as a mate, but he just couldn't comprehend being so clingy.

"Ya know the misery is in your own head. If ya had any sense you'd be embracing ya new son-in-law-to-be an' then lookin forward to being a grandpa. Werewolves have tons of pups." Curling up his nose he tore off the bandana about his throat and handed it down to the man to blow his nose and other such. He might not have agreed with all that the other had done, but it didn't mean he wasn't at least somewhat compassionate.

There were crashing sounds coming from inside the house and then two large fur-covered beasts just exploded out the back wall of the home and rolled across the lawn. The father scrambled backwards, ending up putting his back against a wood chopping block. The two men watched on as the wolves grappled together, rolling, slashing and biting at one another.

"What is happening??" The father asked with fear trembling in his voice. "Nicholas is an Alpha wolf. He leads a pack like a chief or a sheriff...but ya know, in the animal sort of way. Lily is newly born, hasn't even figured out how it all works yet. He has to tame the monster inside of her, make it obey him. If he doesn't...her wolf will run wild, killin' whatever, even people. He's strong, trust me on that one— won't take long."

The farmer started to shakily get to his feet, watching with wide eyes. One wolf was clearly much larger than the other. It gripped the smaller one and flipped it over, causing it to land harshly on its back. In seconds it descended on the smaller wolf, wrapping jaws around its throat and gripping tightly. The smaller wolf let out a yelp. The farmer took a step forward, but Syllis jut out an arm out to stop him.

The two wolves stayed in that position for a short moment, the larger wolf letting out threatening growls before drawing back. It stood to its full height over the smaller wolf. The smaller of the two slowly rolled over and cowed down on all fours, tilting its head to the side. "It's over. This is why he's been hangin 'round ya place since she was biten. Without this, she woulda run wild. Prolly woulda killed ya the moment the moon came out today. He was tryin to save ya."

Syllis turned his head and spat, taking a few steps backwards and leaning his back against an old barn. His eyes slid mostly closed as Nicholas shrank down to normal size and his naked body stood gleaming in the bright blue full moon. The alpha wolf leaned down and whispered something to the other werewolf and the creature began to shift back as well, leaving a young blond woman trembling upon the ground. When she looked up, she was smiling brightly and the two instantly embraced, but it wasn't as sweet and innocent as it had been in the house. Lily jumped onto Nicholas and wrapped her legs around his waist, their lips crushing together in a dizzying kiss. Syllis couldn't help the smile that formed on his lips, or the way that his eyes lit up in joyous wonder. "They are mates. She's no longer human."

The vampire had been so engrossed in watching the new werewolf and her mate that he didn't notice the farmer sneak off and rush back to the house. It wasn't until he heard the click of bullet being chambered that he finally snapped out of his happy thoughts. His head lifted as the scent of silver registered in his mind.

The old man was standing at the corner of the house and in his hands was the rifle that Syllis had taken from him earlier. "I will not have my daughter part of this debauchery." Heat rushed up through the vampire's legs as he started out at a dead run. He could see the man put his finger to the trigger and fear gripped him as he thought for a split second he wasn't going to make it before the sick old man shot his own daughter dead.

Before the gun went off— a jangle of spurs lit up the night, the gun spinning through the air and landing in the dirt with a clatter. Syllis skidded to a stop in front of three horses, one white, one black and one black and white spotted. At first the three figures were obscured by their hats, but slowly they tilted heads back and he stared at them dumb-struck. Markus had swung out a foot and kicked the gun right out of the farmer's hands from where he sat perched atop a horse.

The three riders had just appeared out of nowhere and on horses no less. Markus was in the center on the white horse, with a tall and thin figure on the black horse to his left. The figure on the black horse had smooth tanned skin with rolling long blond curls peeking out beneath a large feather adorned hat. Syllis wasn't sure if it was a man or a woman, but either way he or she was certainly lovely, and spinning a gold pair of scissors on long black leather clad finger. The figure to the left on the spotted horse was shorter, and definitely male, with a mustache and matching short dark beard as well as a pair of tiny spectacles perched on his nose.

The vampire tried to speak, but his mouth felt parched and full of sand. The farmer hissed, spotting a handgun peeking out of the boot of the tall thin figure on the black horse. He lunged forward and fumbled with it using his thick hands. "I wouldn't do that, if I were you." Markus purred, leaning forward so that his elbows rested at his horse's neck.

The farmer pointed the gun directly at Syllis. "All of this is your fault. Ya brought all this damned misfortune down upon my family. Damn you!" The gun went off, a puff of smoke rolling from the end of the barrel. Syllis flinched and reached up to pat at his body, feeling no wounds. He panted faintly; looking to the farmer as the other slowly fell backwards and thudded to the ground sharply. The pistol was gone, and in his hands instead was the rifle. It had been tucked neatly under his chin and his thumb was on the trigger.

The vampire staggered back a few paces before looking to the three figures on the horses. The tall one made a little 'snip snip' motion with the scissors before all three of them started to rein their horses around. Markus smiled to Syllis and blew him a kiss. "Four miles West there's an old barn. Meet me there tomorrow night. And clean up before you come." Syllis swallowed hard, watching that hazel-eyed wink that always made him quiver on the inside.

He wanted to say something back, but by now Lily and Nicholas had rushed to Frank Tims' side. Neither of them seemed to acknowledge the three horsemen that were now slowly sauntering away. "I...I'm sorry. I didn't see the gun until it was too late." That wasn't a lie. Lily shoved her face into Nicholas' chest, the man there to wrap his arms around her as she cried. "You are not at fault. I suppose he could not live with himself. Perhaps he has found a manner of peace."

Syllis could do nothing but numbly nod a few times. Nicholas' hand reached out and in an automatic fashion the vampire returned the action, taking the hand and shaking it. "Thank you for all that you have done. I will forever be grateful for your aid. My heart is whole now, and I have you to thank." Swallowing down a lump in his throat, the cocoa-skinned man shook his head. "I didn't do much. Just, live free an' stay out of trouble eh?"

Forcing a smirk he turned his back on the scene and started to walk away. "What will you do now?" Nicholas called at his back. "Head back to my homestead, I suppose. Back to my dog..." There was a long pause as he continued to walk. "Sounds a bit lonely." The vampire shrugged. "Loneliness is an existence that someone must live."

What he had just seen left his ancient blood running cold. The vampire didn't think he'd ever comprehend what had just happened, but at least he could take solace in the fact that two lovers were now together, forever. At his back he heard two wolf-like howls light up the night, but he didn't turn around, merely glanced up to the brilliant blue moon above and kept walking.

***
Chapter 9

Maybe Someday

Syllis did not wish to return to the cold, damp hole in the rocks. The vampire wandered aimlessly in the night for several hours until eventually being forced to burrow into some loose soil at the outskirts of a farming community. By now he wasn't even sure where he was, and with cold soil piled high above, he figured it would take some time the next night to find his bearings again.

Those three horsemen were certainly awe inspiring and the way that they dealt with the murderous girl's father was something to behold. A part of the vampire was still uncertain if the scene had even truly taken place. Perhaps he had imagined the whole thing and the man just turned the gun to his face and pulled the trigger. Maybe Syllis didn't even try to stop him, and some strange occurrence was easier to imagine than his own cold actions?

The thoughts plagued him until eventually he fell into a dreamless sleep. When he awoke he was stiff and cold, groaning as he pushed out into the open air. Certainly if he was going to meet Markus he would need the suggested 'bath.' It surprised the vampire that he was still considering meeting up with the strange and powerful creature. Despite the scene from the day before, he felt as if he could trust the Texas Ranger. Not to mention he wanted to stare into those hazel eyes, even if it was just for a moment. Then again, if the other was asking for Syllis to wash, perhaps there would be something more to the meeting than just staring. He hated to admit how the idea made his stomach do flips and tingles to prickle up his spine. While he should have been considering the odd way they disposed of the angry father from the night before, he was too busy thinking what sort of touch he might gain.

Sights and smells were easier to take in after a good night's rest. He was no longer shocked to the core and found his way to the Tims' farm, before abruptly heading West. The vampire didn't want to be seen lingering near where the old farmer had shot himself in the face. It still made his blood run cold. If those creatures could appear invisible to others, how many people might have died in ways that seemed inconspicuous, and yet was their doing? Were they a natural occurrence, or something that went against Nature?

Each time that Syllis tried to find fault within the three horsemen, his gut would tell him there was nothing to be alarmed about. It was as if his instincts knew something that his mind just could not yet comprehend. At the edge of a small pond he dropped to his knees and started to remove clothing, catching his reflection in the glass-like surface. As he stared into the depths of his own honey amber eyes, the vampire came to the conclusion that Death must have come for Frank Tims the night before. There was no creature in existence that could stop such an overwhelming force. If it was simply that man's time to go, then it was Syllis who had been in the way the whole time. Perhaps it was his Fate to be gobbled up by his daughter, and the cocoa-skinned man stood in the way.

Wetting his lips he bent down, disturbing the water's still depths to splash droplets into his face and up over his head. Syllis had meant to be compassionate and stop the family heartache. He would not regret standing in the way of such a gruesome Destiny, however, that would only give the old farmer borrowed Time wouldn't it? His death would still be inevitable, and with this new information came a feeling of peace. Chocolate colored flesh slithered into the ankle deep pool and he started to brush his hands up and down his nude body. Absently Syllis wondered if Markus had known all along that he would stand in the Ranger's way of the farmer's original course of life. If so, shouldn't he have taken steps to stop the vampire instead of helping him along the way?

After a long cool wash, Syllis climbed up out of the water and redressed. He considered that the next time he met Markus that it might not be as 'nice' as it had been previously. It occurred to him that whatever creatures the three horsemen were, they could have potentially been upset, or even there to take Syllis to the next life. However, he did not feel in the least bit threatened. There had been a manner of fear in the vampire when he first met Markus, but now he felt completely at ease with the other.

The night before the three of them had stopped Syllis from taking a bullet to the face. He was certain that the gun taken from that boot could have killed him. It stood to reason that if they saved his life, they weren't going to turn around and take it from him now. Off gliding quickly through the wind, so his feet didn't even touch the ground, the vampire traveled further West in search of the abandoned barn and his rendezvous with Markus Elkin.

The area was rather hidden from prying eyes, but the scent of Earth, grass, warmth and something so familiar it made his chest ache, caused Syllis to duck beyond a few scant trees and jump over a small dry creek. On the other side was an empty space of dry land with a few over-turned fence posts and a dusty grey barn against the backdrop of stars. Light amber eyes stared at the dry landscape as he drew closer, inching his way towards the spot until he was rounding the barn in search of a way inside. At the back there was a broken board, allowing him access through a hole.

Squeezing into the darkness he blinked a few times, feet treading on dirt and some old musty hay. Standing in the center of the barn he spun in a circle, seeing nothing but darkness and empty space. "About time. I was beginning to think ya weren't coming." The vampire startled slightly, turning to look up at the loft above. Markus was leaning over a hay bale, his arms resting against it and chin on his hands. "I considered it. After what I saw last night, I had to consider that I might be next." Markus snorted and rolled his hazel eyes. "Don't be dramatic. Get your arse up here."

Syllis hesitated on purpose, making Markus wait before bending at the knees and jumping a good fifteen feet straight up in the air and landing in the hay. To his surprise, there was a large blanket spread out across the floor of the hayloft, making a rather nice little nest. Markus had moved to stretch out on the blanket, not wearing a shirt or his boots. Leaning back he propped up on an arm, brushing his free hand down his chest. The other's body was lightly muscled, with a bit of hair at his chest and a perfect happy trail leading down from his belly button to disappear down inside his trousers.

The vampire swallowed hard, tossing his hat to the side and immediately starting to kick off his boots. Markus grinned, running his fingers through his curly hair. "Ah, now ya figure out why I invited you here." The darker-skinned man snorted, gripping the tail end of his shirt and tugging it up over his head before letting it fall into the hay. "I have a pretty good idea." He smirked as he dropped to his knees and loomed over the other, stopping short to quirk a brow. "What the Hell is that behind you?"

Both the men swiveled a bit, craning necks to get a better look at the Mason Jar behind Markus. The Ranger chuckled a little and offered a shrug. "Ah, it was short notice, so I had to pick up what I could find." The vampire sniffed at the air and then looked incredulously into those hazel eyes. "Is that _butter_!?" Again the Ranger shrugged, rolling onto his back and putting his hands behind his head. "It'll work." The vampire let out a low growl, his hands coming to his hips. "Oh really?? An' jus' who is gettin greased up?" Hazel eyes looked boldly downwards and then back to the vampire, eyebrows going up and down.

Syllis scoffed and shook his head a little. "So ya think that's how it's gunna be do ya? Ya might be disappointed." Markus reached up, gripping the dark skinned man by the back of the neck, his eyes falling mostly closed. "Whatever happens, I highly doubt I'll be disappointed." When their lips met it was a lot sweeter than either man had intended for it to be. Syllis' hands roamed through short curly locks, enjoying the silken feel beneath his calloused fingertips. Their lips continued to work together furiously, tongues snaking out to wrap up together as Markus pulled the vampire down against him. The two started to breathe the same air, growls vibrating their bodies from the overwhelming musk of being pressed together.

Markus' nails raked down Syllis' back sharply, making the vampire break the kiss to arch slightly and let out a panting groan. "Mmmm, you feel so good." He muttered through clenched teeth, hands going to the front of the Ranger's black pants and fumbling to get them unfastened. The vampire took no time in moving in to kiss at the other male's neck and down his chest. He left wet trails in his wake, his tongue swirling in little circles and lips puckering in little sweet kisses against the flesh. The hazel-eyed Ranger exhaled contentedly, glancing down as the other crawled down lower and lower. "Always so eager to please."

Syllis tugged at Markus' pants, ending up toppling over backwards as he finally got them free. He laughed as he fell into the hay. The Ranger snickered at the other's predicament. "Do you need some help down there? Maybe some detailed instructions?" The pants were thrown at him, thwapping him upside his golden brown curly head. Sputtering faintly he went to say something nasty but it was drowned out in a grown when abruptly a long lick was placed against his thickness from the underside of the base, all the way to the tip. "I think I got it under control." Syllis breathed against the throbbing thickness.

Markus licked his lips, nodding a few times as a hand was wrapped tightly around him. "Mmm, yeah maybe." The vampire nibbled at the hard prick, kissing and sucking at the sides before swirling his tongue around the tip; all the while one hand stroking up and down. "Mmm, take me all in. Fit me down your throat. I wanna feel it. I know you can." Syllis blinked but opened his mouth wide, letting that blossoming thickness slide past his lips.

It wasn't hard for a vampire to stave off a gag reflex. Closing his eyes he sucked in a breath through his nose and relaxed, that hard cock slipping past his tonsils and halfway down his throat. Soon he was brushing his nose against the soft hair of Markus' happy patch. His hands rested on either side of the other on the blanket and he started to bob his head up and down. To the great pleasure of his ears, there came a wondrous cry from the Texas Ranger's lips.

The noises spurred the vampire on, making him move faster, fangs lightly scraping at the sides of that throbbing flesh. It didn't take more than a few moments before Markus was leaning up and grabbing at his head. "Stop stop! Wait. Not yet." Syllis had half a mind to keep going, but after a few good slurps he drew his ministrations to a stop, lifting his head. There was a string of saliva connecting his bottom lip to the other's glistening cock. Markus shivered from the sight, cupping a hand under the vampire's chin and tugging him up into a hard and almost desperate kiss. He sucked on the darker male's bottom lip while reaching to work Syllis out of his dusty trousers.

Nimble fingers were there to help Markus' trembling digits with the buttons and then shove the constricting clothing away. The Ranger groaned into the other's mouth when his hands came to the ample hot thickness that was freed. It was like he couldn't wait to get his hands on what was hidden in Syllis' pants. The two inched closer to one another on their knees, until they were standing chest to chest with their thicknesses pressed firmly together between. Their hands explored everywhere, palms smoothing up and down sides, along arms and across one another's thighs. It was as if they were trying to memorize every inch of skin.

Finally, they broke the dizzying kiss filling the hayloft with gasping breaths and heavy pants. Markus swallowed hard, placing a hand against the side of Syllis' neck. "I want...I want..." He stammered, as if unable to form coherent thoughts just yet. The vampire swallowed hard, blinking a few times and attempting to focus on those lovely hazel eyes. "Yes? What? Tell me." Markus' free arm slid around the other's waist and in one swift inhuman motion the Ranger flipped Syllis onto his back.

The vampire let out a shocked growl, now abruptly on his back with a smooth hot body above. Markus had pushed Syllis' thighs apart and settled between them, moving to stare down at the other intently. "I want inside you. Let me inside." His head dipped forward and he started to nuzzle up at the other's throat. His body rolled, urging that hard chocolate body to relax, one hand slipping between them to grip Syllis' thickness and stroke. The vampire's first reaction was to shove Markus off and pin him down, but the light touches, and the urging cooing tone of that voice made him relax. A crease formed in the man's brow as he seemed to seriously consider the request.

"Only if I get full-service. An' don't act like ya don't know what I'm talking about." Syllis drew his hands back, propping them up behind his head and motioning downwards with his chin. The Ranger leaned up on his hands and then started to chuckle, offering a faint nod. "All right, I can agree to some give-and-take." Tilting his head instantly, he caught the vampire's left nipple between his teeth and gave a sharp bite, causing the other to hiss and arch a little. Down below his thickness gave a deep throb and started to leak.

Markus' tongue swirled around the abused nipple before starting to draw a wet line all the way down the dark man's peck, across his abs, stopping short to dip into his belly button before moving farther South. It didn't take long to get to the intensely twitching prick. Not only because Syllis was short in stature, but because his cock was not. Markus brushed his cheek against it, almost lovingly nuzzling at it before turning his head to lap at the leaking tip. The salty liquid made him shiver and wrap lips around the head, attempting to slurp out anymore that might escape. His hands were lightly stroking at Syllis' thighs, feeling them quiver beneath the touches, both from the expert motions and also from anticipation.

Markus bobbed his head a few times before letting the cock slip from his lips with a wet pop. "I'm glad you took a bath for me." He leaned lower, sliding his tongue along the other's soft jewels. The Ranger could feel the way they tensed as he licked at them, moving lower still, until he was nestled tightly between Syllis' thighs. "Spread wider." He commanded, somewhere between a gentle coo and an annoyed bark. The vampire bit his bottom lip with sharp fangs as he forced his trembling legs apart, feeling that tongue drift lower and lower until he gasped and arched up off the blanket. The feel of that silken tongue against the tight ring of muscle made his entire body tingle. "Fffmmssshhh!" He managed to babble; toes curling.

Markus grinned to himself, taking a finger and plopping it into his mouth to suck at it, getting it nice and wet. Soon he was swirling it around that dampened entrance then pushing beyond the tight ring. Syllis hissed and clutched at the blanket, twisting it in his palms as pants escaped his chest. "C-can't believe you b-brought...b-b-butter!" Soon the finger was working back and forth inside of him, stretching, prodding, and working towards a goal that Syllis knew all too well.

The Ranger leaned upwards, looming over the squirming vampire. "And I'm gunna use it too." Syllis cracked open an eye, suddenly aware that the scent of butter in the air was stronger than before. He let out a groan meant to convey annoyance, but it ended up sounding passionate as Markus hit a particular sensitive spot inside. "You're...damned...weird..." Markus chuckled, moving a hand back and forth as he slicked his hard thickness up with the makeshift lubricant. "And you want me."

If the vampire was about to try and protest— it was silenced with a hard kiss. The finger was removed and something hot and much larger was pressed against him. Chocolate colored arms and legs wound around Markus as he began to press forward. Syllis whimpered a little as he was forced open, the sting and uncomfortable pressure slowly giving way to an overwhelming pleasure that pooled into the pit of his stomach and started to spread through the rest of his body. Soon the two men were moving against one another, panting, sweating and grunting while they had a nice roll in the hay.

Markus leaned back enough to stroke the other's dark cheek. "When was the last time you let someone, like this? Inside?" Amber eyes slammed shut and Syllis shook his head furiously. "I dunno. Centuries." The Ranger furled his brows tightly together and started to slow his pace, grinding up into the other deeper and rolling his hips in a circle each time a sound of pleasure escaped the vampire's lips. In moments the vampire was nothing but a quivering mess, clawing at the creamy skinned man's back. "Let go." Markus purred. "It's ok, you can go first." The vampire growled, gnashing his fangs— ending up biting his bottom lip to the point of blood. " _No_! I can't."

The Ranger looked faintly startled, but let out a slightly defeated sigh. Leaning down he kissed at the other's abused lip. "Always the martyr. Ssshhhh, how about...together?" Hazel eyes gleamed as Markus smiled encouragingly down to the dark-skinned male. The vampire whined a little, but then nodded, rolling his hips upwards to meet each thrust. "Ok...ok. Together." Markus' hand slipped in between them and he started stroking up and down at Syllis' cock in time with each thrust. The two men met each other's gaze, intently staring into one another's eyes. They could see the impending orgasm reflected in the beautiful colors. The two drove each other to the edge and then jumped, together.

Markus reached for Syllis' hand with his free hand, lacing their fingers together and squeezing tightly as the wave of pleasure hit a crescendo. The vampire arched his back up and let out a faint cry. The Texas Ranger tried to stop himself but when smooth muscles tightened sharply around his thickness he too let out a cry. It was almost simultaneous as hot sticky spilled; Syllis making a warm pool against their bellies and more drip across Markus' hand, while Markus' filled the vampire from the inside causing a bit to dribble down the sides of his length. The dark-skinned male would certainly have a mess down the back of his thighs later.

The two men settled down against one another. Markus' was growing soft, but he refused to detach from Syllis' body just yet. The vampire turned his head and kissed at the other's neck. "Are you going to leave again?" The Ranger let out a heavy sigh. "I'll stay for a while, but I won't be here when you wake." The two went silent in the darkness, so there was only the sound of their breath slowing. Syllis reached up and ran his hand against Markus' upper arm, gently stroking at the flesh. "I know you."

The Ranger drew in a deep breath and let it out slowly, puffing the hot breath against the vampire's cheek and neck. "Yes, you do." Syllis swallowed hard and then licked at his lips thoughtfully. "I feel as if I've always known you, but I can't quite grasp how or where. It's so strange. The feel of your skin, the taste of your lips, even your scent. I remember all of it. Yet, I cannot recall your name, or even your face." Markus nuzzled at the other's neck. "Think about how I feel." He snorted faintly, reaching to tweak the vampire's nipple sharply. "Just—just know that, hopefully, one day you will be ready to _truly_ see me. Technically, I should not be here. What you have seen, no mortal should ever have seen."

Syllis' head turned and he tried to get into a position so he could see Markus in the darkness. "Then why? If you are supposed to be hidden, why reveal yourself to me?" In the darkness the vampire watched the Ranger lift his head just a bit and give an exaggerated roll of those lovely hazel eyes. "Come on, don't be an arse. Do you really need to ask all these questions or can ya grow up enough to answer them ya-damned-self?" The vampire furled his brows, reaching up to tenderly stroke at Markus' cheek. "It's because you're my friend." The Ranger's hazel eyes went wide, as if he were struck so hard that it momentarily shocked him to the core. Syllis took the moment to lean up and kiss the other's lips. "You're my friend. You're a horse's arse, but you're my friend."

The two men settled down again, both smiling in the darkness. A deep peace had washed over both of them. The two would sleep soundly for several hours, without dreams and without worry. Just as Markus had said, the next night at sundown when Syllis' natural clock told him it was time to wake; he would find that there was no longer a warm body lying next to him.

Alone in the darkness he did not feel lonely or afraid of what the future might hold. The vampire actually felt rather hopeful for what was to come, and he'd not known that hope in quite some time. There was nothing left to do, but return to his life and wish his friend well; wherever he might be. Though something told him, that He was seldom far.

THE END?

***
Thank You for Reading

Thank you for your support of independent authors! I sincerely hope that you enjoyed what you have read. Please, consider leaving a review on the site where you purchased it, or on Goodreads.

Thanks again and I hope to see you within the pages of another book.

***
Other Works by A. L. Wilson

Stolen Elements Series

_Phoenix Heart_ \- Released June 2014

_Serpent Flesh_ \- Coming Winter 2014/2015

Short Stories

_Fate Trail_ \- Released June 2014

_Isle of Illusions_ \- Coming Fall 2014

To stay on top of the most recent releases; find A. L. Wilson online at:

http://www.authoralwilson.com/

***

# Fate Trail

A. L. Wilson

***
