

FIREWORKS

by

Lindsey Gray

Publish by Lindsey Gray at Smashwords

Copyright 2013 Lindsey Gray

IBSN: 9781301237098

Smashwords Edition, License Notes

This eBook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This eBook is not to be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to Smashwords.com and purchase you worn copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

Cover Design by Mayhem Cover Creations

Cover Photo by artfotoss

Edited by Lisa Bilbrey

IBSN-13: 2940044581524

To all my family and friends who have supported me and my words even when I didn't. Your encouragement keeps the words flowing.

Sophie McKibbin finds herself back in Sam Crawford's life after ten years. Unfortunately, Sam is dating Lola, Sophie's high school nemesis. Lola dumps Sam the day before he was supposed to introduce his mystery girlfriend to his family over the Fourth of July holiday. With the looming fear of disappointing his mother once again and his long held feelings for Sophie, he asks her to take Lola's place. With family feuds, an old flame, and feelings that have been locked away for a decade, there is bound to be some fireworks.

Title

Copyright

Dedication

Summary

Prologue

Chapter One

Chapter Two

Chapter Three

Chapter Four

Chapter Five

Chapter Six

Chapter Seven

Chapter Eight

Chapter Nine

Chapter Ten

Chapter Eleven

Epilogue

About The Author

Other Titles available from Enchanted Publications

"Can I have one?"

Sam Crawford pulled his head out of his parents' refrigerator at the sound of the voice he'd been hearing in his dreams for months.

He wiggled the ice-cold bottle of beer at her before shutting the refrigerator door. "You mean one of these?"

Sam popped off the top, took a long pull from the beer bottle, and sighed in relief. A satisfied grin graced his lips as he watched her throat bob.

"You know what I want," she answered in a breathy whisper.

He came to stand right in front of her, mere inches separating his thumping heart from hers. "I seem to remember my driver's license says I'm twenty-one, while yours reads sixteen."

"Come on, Sam." She ran her fingertip down the side of the bottle clearing away a line of condensation. "Just one."

She looked up at him through her dark lashes in a plea for his permission.

"Sophie," he grunted in frustration. The little minx had him in a constant state of arousal whenever she was near. Sam could see a thirst in her eyes for more than just the beer in his hand. "How about a sip?"

She nodded, and he brought it to her lips. One small sip, followed by a swallow and a soft moan had his restraint weakening.

She's only sixteen. She's only sixteen, Sam chanted over and over in his mind.

"Delicious." Sophie licked her lips and curved them up into a smile.

"Yes, you are."

Her breath caught in her throat. "I am?"

Sam could see the heat rise to her cheeks at his slip of the tongue. "You know you are, but . . ."

She backed away knowing what would follow. It had happened so many times before, yet every time he let himself take it a bit farther.

"But I'm sixteen." Sophie sighed in disappointment.

"Yes." He turned his head away from her and took another long drink to calm himself.

"I won't be sixteen forever, you know." She took the bottle from his hand and placed it on the counter. "The five year difference won't mean a thing when I'm twenty."

"A few years." Sam nodded as if to tell her he would wait. For her, he felt he could.

"Oh, Sophie. How nice to see you again."

Sophie and Sam jumped apart as his mother entered the kitchen. "You too, Mrs. Crawford."

"Are you and Caroline working on another project?"

"No, just hanging out. I was getting a drink." It was evident the woman of the house intimidated Sophie.

Sam reached into the refrigerator and pulled a soda out for Sophie. When he offered it to her, she accepted it.

"You're all set then." Mrs. Crawford pressed her lips together in a tight smile. "My daughter is probably wondering what is taking you so long."

"Yes, ma'am." Sophie turned and looked back at Sam. "Thanks for the drink."

The wink following her comment assured Sam that she wasn't talking about the soda.

When Sophie was out of earshot, the torment began.

"I cannot believe that after everything I have said that you are blatantly flirting with your sister's friend. Again!" Sam's mother clenched her teeth in apparent aggravation.

"It's harmless. She knows that." He picked up his beer and took another sip to distract himself.

"She might, but do you?" Mrs. Crawford walked over to the counter beside the refrigerator and pulled a drawing pad out from a stack of books. She flipped open the cover to reveal a portrait of Sophie drawn by Sam's own hand.

"Where did you get that?" Sam reached for the pad, but she was quick to pull it away.

"It doesn't matter. This obsession you have has got to stop! She's just a girl for pity sake." His mother flipped through the pad, finding page after page full of drawings of Sophie.

"I know the age difference is something now, but in a few years --"

She cut Sam off short. "It will always matter. Your degree will be finished in two months. After that, you will be moving to Boston to obtain your master's degree."

He hadn't decided if he would take his education further. The Bachelor's in Hospital Administration was his back up. Art was what he wanted to pursue.

"I haven't decided on Boston yet. You know that."

Mrs. Crawford narrowed her eyes and began speaking in an eerie tone. "You will go to Boston and you will complete your master's degree or you will be cut off without a cent."

"You can't do that." Sam was visibly shaken by her threat.

"I can and I will. This obsession with Sophie McKibbin ends today. If you ever make offerings to her other than friendship, you will not see one more dime from your father or me."

Sam nodded without a word. He complied that day with the hope that someday Sophie would be in his life again when there wasn't a damn thing his mother could do about it.

"You're thirty-one years old. It's high time you settle down and give me some grandbabies."

"Mom." Sam rolled his eyes and leaned back in his leather desk chair.

"Don't give me that tone, Samuel. I have to meet this girl you're involved with before you combine the Crawford genes with hers." Her huff was more than audible from the other end of the phone.

Could a huff be ear piercing? It definitely made his ears ring.

"And what is this whole nonsense with not even telling us the girl's name? Honestly, Sam, why?"

He took a deep breath. "She has family in Halston. I don't want you bombarding them for details before you have a chance to meet her properly. It's the same for me; her family doesn't know my name, either. We've only been seeing each other a couple of months. Give us a chance to figure us out before bringing the Crawford genes into the picture."

"This is just ridiculous." His mother added another huff for good measure.

"Mom, I need to get back to work. Give everyone my love."

"Fine, but I'm still upset with you. Can I at least know what she looks like?"

Sam thought about it for a moment before he let go of two tiny details. "She has long brown hair and blue eyes. That is all you're getting from me."

"I guess that will be enough."

He rolled his eyes for what seemed like the hundredth time since the conversation started. "See you soon."

The call to his mother, Virginia, was supposed to be a quick hello before he started his shift as the evening administrator at Lakeland Children's Hospital. As it turned out, his mother had made it into an interrogation over his love life.

Sam and Lola Denison had been dating a few months, and neither was ready to face the wrath of either of their mothers when the news of their relationship came out. Virginia Crawford and Lola's mother were on the church council together in their hometown of Halston, Kansas, an affluent suburb of Kansas City. They had a fallout, something to do with Mrs. Denison stealing his mother's cobbler recipe then passed it off as her own at one of the church bazaars. Sam and Lola decided they'd wait to do the family introductions until they were further on in their relationship.

Lola was fun and outgoing. She was getting her Master's in Child Psychology through the University of Kansas. They met the previous fall while she was doing a clinical rotation on the general pediatric floor. She was only twenty-five. Between the difference in their age and their mothers' hatred for one another, they hadn't properly met in Halston. Sam thought it thrilling at first, rebelling against the perfect Virginia Crawford. Now that his mother was becoming more insistent on meeting Lola, his stomach was in knots. He thought it very well had to be caused by the 'passing on the family genes' comment.

Sam knew thirty-one was a little old to still be unmarried, but his mother had set goals for him from a young age, and he hadn't faltered from her plan. He graduated from college, went on to get his master's degree, and then built up experience in the field. Sam landed, what his mother believed, was a dream job the previous summer -- not his dream, but hers.

Sam walked to the cafeteria. To make it through the night, he'd need coffee. He acknowledged staff along the way, nodding to them when convenient.

The one thing he loved about living in a large metropolis like Kansas City was that there was a Starbucks on every corner, even in the hospital. Sam was waiting patiently for the barista to make his drink with two extra shots of espresso when he heard the tinkling laughter of two nurses ordering their own coffees.

He turned to see what all the fuss was about. The tall, dark haired nurse was showing the slightly shorter, brunette friend something on her cell phone.

"Two venti cafe mochas, please," the tall one ordered.

"Venti, Lexi? I'm going to have such a sugar high by the time I get to the bottom of the cup." The other one laughed.

Sam noticed something familiar about the brunette nurse at that moment and her voice confirmed it. For years, he'd dreamed of long, wavy brown hair, a pair of bright blue eyes, and heart-shaped lips. Sam couldn't believe it'd been almost ten years since he last saw her in his parents' kitchen. There was no thought in what he did next, he acted on pure instinct.

"Why, if it isn't little Miss Sophie McKibbin."

Sophie turned her head in his direction, and a soft smile spread across her lips when she giggled. "Mr. Sam Crawford. Fancy meeting you here."

Lexi looked between the smiling pair with confusion. "Someone fill me in, please?"

"Sorry, Lexi. Sam, this is my best friend and roommate Lexi Carter. Lexi, this is Sam Crawford. He's from Halston, too, and happens to be the brother of my cousin's wife," Sophie explained.

"Well, that explains the greeting. I guess the two of you didn't know you worked in the same hospital?" Lexi asked.

Sophie looked at him in surprise. "You work here?"

Sam rubbed the back of his neck nervously. He never imagined he would be so uncomfortable in Sophie's presence, but she'd grown even more beautiful since he last saw her.

"Yes. I'm one of the evening hospital administrators. I'm assuming you two are part of our top notch nursing staff?"

"Yes, in the intensive care unit," Sophie responded.

"You must be the team Dr. Thomas has been bragging about." Sam was stuck smiling as he gazed into her crystal-blue eyes. "We should all go out for a drink sometime."

"Sounds great," Sophie replied.

Sam dug his business card out of his pocket and wrote on the back. "This is my office number, but my cell is on the back."

"Thanks." Sophie's cheeks reddened as she took the card from him.

"See you later." He lifted his coffee cup to the two before he left the cafeteria.

Lexi grasped Sophie by the elbow and forced her into a nearby booth. "I need details. Who is that sex-on-a-stick, and why have I never met him before?"

Sophie shook her head as memories of a younger Sam flooded her mind. The years had been very kind to him in her opinion. He was over six feet tall, with what appeared to be a lean yet muscled body. His light brown hair looked like it needed a trim, but was incredibly sexy at the same time. Like her own were, his eyes were blue, yet they seemed to hold a sparkle she'd never seen before when he smiled.

"His younger sister and I were friends in high school. Sam was in college at that time, so I didn't see much of him, but when I did . . ." Sophie got a faraway look in her eyes.

"You liked him!" Lexi smacked Sophie's hand that lay on the table between them.

"Yep, I fell hard. I admit there was a bit of flirting, but nothing ever came of it." Sophie ran her fingertips over her warm cheeks. "I thought I might see him a bit more once Caroline and my cousin, Drew, started dating, but he was working somewhere out east. Then I started dating Josh, and you know how that turned out." Her relationship with Josh Reynolds had been a complete disaster, dictating how she had spent the last several years of her life.

"It's time to get back on the horse, so to speak. I'm sure that cowboy wouldn't mind a ride."

Sophie laughed, but deep down in the dirty recesses of her mind, she could picture it happening.

A few hours later, Sam thought over his encounter with Sophie. He'd been trying to relax while sketching a picture of the new Sophie when his pager went off. He picked it up off his desk to look at the page.

"Shit!" Sam jumped out of his chair, grabbed his cell phone and began running down the hallway. He caught up with the nursing house supervisor at the elevator bay. "Hey, Kate. You know what's going on?"

They stepped onto the elevator.

"Yeah, thirteen-month-old with head trauma. When I checked earlier, they thought he was turning a corner."

Sam shook his head. This was the part of his job he hated, but because of hospital policy, he had to check on all codes.

They got to the intensive care unit and went to the bedside where the doctors, nurses, and respiratory therapists tried to revive the little boy. Kate and Sam escorted his grieving parents to the waiting room where the Chaplain was waiting. On his way out, he noticed Sophie administering medications and thought it must be her patient.

After another twenty minutes and a few final tests, the attending doctor, Dr. Thomas, called the time of death. Sam's heart lurched to his throat as it always did when a patient didn't make it. Death was hard under any circumstances, but the death of a child was downright horrible.

Once they removed all the tubing and cleaned the little boy up, the staff left his parents to spend a few moments to say goodbye.

The team walked into the lounge, and the moment the door was closed, the female respiratory therapist turned to Sophie and began sobbing. Dr. Thomas patted her back as he spoke.

"I know how we all fought to save little Nathan, but unfortunately, there was just too much damage. I'm sure the family is grateful for what time we were able to give them. Sophie, you did an excellent job. The second you noticed a change you were on top of it."

"Thank you, Dr. Thomas," she replied with a shaky lilt to her voice.

"It's almost shift change. Let's finish our paperwork and charting so we can go get some rest." Dr. Thomas gave everyone a weak smile.

Kate turned to Sam and they went over the hospital procedures they knew by heart at that point.

As Sophie was walking out of the room, Kate said, "You did great on your first code, Sophie."

"Thanks, Kate." She looked up at Sam before wiping a tear from her cheek. "I need to finish up before the coroner gets here."

Sophie left the lounge looking defeated.

"Ugh." Kate sat down at the table. "It never gets any easier. She's seen so much."

"I thought you said it was her first code?" Sam sat down in a chair next to Kate.

"Here, yes, but Sophie spent eighteen months working at a pediatric clinic in Africa. She told me after so many deaths there she stopped counting."

"Wow, Africa? She's done so much for someone so young."

"Noticed that, huh?" Kate quipped.

Sam tried to laugh it off. "Yeah, well, we both grew up in Halston together. She's a bit younger than me, and until earlier today, I hadn't seen her in quite a while."

"She's twenty-six. Actually, she worked at the clinic with Dr. Thomas before she went to Africa. When Sophie came back, he had taken the job here at the hospital and recommended she give this place a try."

"You don't think this will shake her at all?" A wave of panic swept through Sam at the thought of not being able to see her.

"No, Sophie's a tough cookie with a big heart. I think she'll be around for a while."

Relief took the place of panic before he pulled himself together to finish his work for the night.

"Sam?"

He turned to find Sophie standing beside a small, bright blue car in the hospital parking lot. "Hi, Sophie. Heading out?"

"Yep. You?"

"Yeah." They stood there for a few seconds just looking at each other. He could tell by the way she fidgeted that she wanted to say something else, but held back. He took the courage and broke the ice. "I'm still too keyed up to sleep and missed dinner. Would you like to get something to eat with me?"

Sophie smiled and nodded. "How about I meet you at the diner two blocks down?"

Sam knew exactly where she was talking about. "Sure. See you in a few."

Twenty minutes later, they were enjoying bacon cheeseburgers, fries, and chocolate milkshakes.

"Oh," Sophie moaned around a bite of her burger. "This is good."

Sam adjusted his position in his seat at the sound of her moan. He took a bite of his own burger and realized what the throaty sound was all about as he involuntarily let out one of his own.

"Oh, yeah." He licked a bit of ketchup off his lip. "I haven't had anything, but coffee since this afternoon. This is perfect."

They ate in silence for a bit until Sam spoke up. "Have you talked to Drew or Caroline lately?"

He knew she hadn't spoken to his sister or her cousin, but he wasn't sure why.

"No, um, I haven't talked to them since I got back."

"Back." Sam nodded. "Yeah, Kate told me you went to work in Africa for a while."

"Yes. I guess I kind of ran away. I know Drew is still pissed that I missed their Christmas wedding, but he only gave me two weeks' notice. I just couldn't get everything together in time. We got in a terrible fight about it and a few other things. I got back in January, but I haven't called yet. He hasn't called me either, though." It was now April, so she thought it hadn't been that long.

Sam wiped his mouth with a napkin as he finished chewing a bite. "Leave it to my sister to do everything at the last minute. I still can't believe she planned their wedding in two weeks."

"I'm sorry I missed it. If they could have waited another month, I would have been home. Drew just said he couldn't crush her dream of a Christmas wedding."

"When or where wouldn't matter to her." Sam laughed. "I know she's been in love with him for a long time. She was so painfully shy in high school, but college helped her out. Did he tell you she actually asked him out?"

"No. Really?" Sophie appeared shocked that Drew had never told her.

"Yeah. One week she had seen him every day around noon sitting alone in the same spot on campus. By Friday, and about ten phone calls to me, she got the courage to go talk to him. He recognized her right away and asked her to join him. After that, Caroline said she'd never felt so comfortable with anyone outside her family. Before they finished lunch, she asked if he wanted to go out to dinner that night. I found out when she called me the following Monday that they'd spent the entire weekend together." Sam shuddered at the thought of his sister having sex.

"Yes, I do remember hearing that part." Sophie laughed at his obvious discomfort.

They finished their burgers while they continued to talk. She told Sam about life as Lexi's roommate, which was always a wild ride. He shared with her about his move back closer to home and how happy his parents were to have him there.

When his phone beeped with a text message, he took it out to read. It was Lola letting him know she was going to bed after her study session and to say goodnight. He slipped it back into his pocket and realized before anything else happened, he needed to fess up.

"Um, Sophie?"

"Yes, Sam." She sipped on her milkshake.

"Do you remember Lola Dennison?"

Sophie knew exactly whom he was talking about and her distaste showed on her face. "Yes, she was a class below Caroline and me. Why?"

"She's getting her Master's in Child Psych, and we bumped into each other while she was doing her clinical rotation. We've been dating for a couple months." Sam watched as Sophie's eyes turned the shade of ice blue, and she scrunched up her face.

"Does Caroline know?" Sophie tried to rein in her anger but was having a difficult time.

"No, I haven't told anybody yet. I guess her mom and my mom had a big falling out years ago, and it's still pretty rocky between them. We kind of want to see where it goes before we bring the families into it."

Sophie's gut twisted in unimaginable ways. The younger and more popular Lola bullied Sophie and Caroline for three years during high school. Caroline never stood up for herself, but Sophie, on the other hand, gave as good as she got. That caused more than a few tussles in the Halston High hallways.

She calmed herself down and took a deep breath. "I see."

"You don't approve?"

"Um . . ." Sophie looked up at him as his question hung in the air. "It's really none of my business. But when you do tell Caroline, make sure you're alone. The two of them didn't get along well."

"Lola's never said anything." Sam wondered what could have happened between the two.

"She probably doesn't want to think about it." Sophie dropped her chin to her chest and mumbled, "I know don't want to."

"What?"

"Nothing. Look, thanks for dinner. I really needed something greasy like this after tonight."

Sam could tell she was ready to leave so he reached for the bill folder. "No problem. I wouldn't mind hanging out again. That offer for drinks is still on the table."

He stuffed some cash in the bill folder and placed it back on the table.

"Yeah, we'll talk later." Sophie smiled while trying to stop her heart from hurting.

"I'd like that." He meant it, too.

Sam knew that dating Lola was a risk, but knew he couldn't pass up the chance to have Sophie in his life.

The months went by and Sophie did indeed take Sam up on that drink, more than a few times. They went out in groups with Lexi and a few other co-workers several times and then the two of them would go back to the diner to curb their cheeseburger cravings. Sometimes they'd met up on their days off, and go to the movies or even a concert.

The one time Sam brought Lola to a group outing, Sophie and Lola got into it while in the ladies' room. Lexi had to take Sophie home, but neither she, Sophie, nor Lola would explain what had happened to Sam. After seeing the disdain Lola had for one of his closest friends, Sam began to wonder why he was with her at all. That wonder led him to thoughts of life without Lola, a life where Sophie was his. He had invested so much time into his relationship with Lola, but the pull he felt toward Sophie became harder to resist. He found himself making excuses to Lola to spend time with Sophie. A small amount of guilt had settled in his gut, but it wasn't enough to make him stop seeing Sophie.

June came and Lola had accepted a position at Lakeland. She wouldn't start until the middle of July so she appeared to be concentrating on Sam. He wondered whether he should introduce Lola to his family or break up with her. Though he knew he couldn't use Sophie as an excuse, nothing else had presented itself. Whether Sam was with Lola or Sophie, he knew his mother would be disappointed, again.

Sophie hadn't seen Sam in almost a week by then. Just a few text messages here and there, so she was more than happy that she bumped into him in the cafeteria while getting coffee one afternoon.

"Where you been keeping yourself, Crawford?" she asked, sneaking up on him.

"Hey." Sam leaned in and gave her a friendly hug without a second thought. He pulled back from her. "Lola got a new place out of the blue, and so I've been helping her get settled."

"Ah." Sophie took a drink of her coffee.

"I know the two of you don't get along, but I do appreciate you not holding it against me."

Sophie looked up and saw Sam's smile. She could never stay mad at him when he smiled at her like that.

"Sammie!" Sam heard Lola squeal from somewhere behind him. He hated when she called him that.

"I'll catch you later." Sam hightailed it over to Lola before she disrupted the entire cafeteria.

Sophie just shook her head at the sight and took a seat to finish her coffee before going back to work.

"Lola." Sam took her by the elbow and led her over to a table. "Calm down. What's with all the excitement?"

"Remember I told you that my friend, Leslie, was a finalist in that radio contest?"

He attempted to think back. Usually, when she mentioned her friend, he zoned out much like Leslie did ninety-percent of the time.

"Um . . . maybe."

"Well, she won! A Fourth of July vacation in Hawaii, with all expenses paid."

"Great. I hope she has a magnificent time." Sam furrowed his brow and wondered why this news was of such importance.

"It's a trip for two, silly. I'm going with her, so it looks like we will have to put off the 'meet the parents' thing for a few more weeks. I'll look so much better with a natural tan."

The knot in his stomach tightened. "Are you serious?"

"Oh, Sammie. Don't be like that. We've waited months. A few more weeks won't hurt."

"Won't hurt who, Lola? Not that meeting the parents isn't a big deal, but this is supposed to be our first big holiday together. I even took off a couple extra days so we could go to the lake like you wanted."

Lola looked at him like he was nuts. "We can do it all next year. This is a once in a lifetime vacation."

"If there is a next year," he mumbled.

That caught her attention. "What?"

Sam concentrated on his breathing while he thought of what he wanted to say next. The reason he'd needed had presented itself. He repeated his new mantra over and over in his mind. This has nothing to do with Sophie. This has nothing to do with Sophie.

"Maybe we should take a break. If you don't think meeting the family of your boyfriend and ditching our first holiday together is important, perhaps we should reevaluate things."

"But, Sam," she scoffed

Sam looked up to see her lip trembling.

"I love you," she whimpered.

Sam knew that the words coming out of his mouth next would make him a bastard for begrudging her a tropical vacation, but he knew it was his way out. "Obviously not enough."

The change in Lola's demeanor went from wounded woman to scorned bitch in two seconds flat. "Fine!" Lola stomped her foot like a spoiled child. "You have fun in fucking Halston while I go and have marathon sex with gorgeous surfers for two weeks. Hell, maybe Leslie and I won't come back. Have fun trying to find someone who will put up with your fucked up schedule, stupid hair, and let's not forget your mommy issues. Have a nice life, Sammie."

Lola stormed out, and for about ten long seconds the entire cafeteria was silent. Sam looked up to see a shocked Sophie sitting in a nearby booth.

Slowly, Sophie stood and walked over to him. "Let's get you back to your office."

The two walked in silence back to Sam's office.

"What just happened?" Sophie asked when he'd sat down in his desk chair.

"She just broke up with me." Sam couldn't believe the vile creature he'd just broken up with was the girl he'd been dating for months.

"Yes. I caught something about sex with surfers, and you don't surf. So?"

Sam motioned for Sophie to sit in the chair in front of his desk. "Her friend won a trip to Hawaii for over The Fourth, and she's going with her. The problem is we were supposed to break it to our parents we were dating this week. We've been planning it for a month. I guess it wasn't as important as I thought. Or I wasn't as important as I thought."

"Sam, Lola's an idiot. Always has been, always will be. Forget about her."

"What am I going to do?" Sam rubbed his palms across his face vigorously. "My mom is expecting us."

"I'm sure Virginia will get over it. She's in charge of the parade this year so that will distract her."

"Maybe." Sam looked up and saw Sophie smiling sweetly at him. The thought popped into his mind so quick, he gasped for air. His smile matched hers as he looked into her sparkling blue eyes. Blue eyes, brown hair, from Halston -- all the attributes his mother knew about his mystery girlfriend. Sam wondered if enough time had passed for his mother to forget her threat.

"What are you doing for The Fourth?"

"Well, if we had talked in the last week, you would know I'm going to stay with my dad for the week. He says he has some important news."

"News?"

"I think he's going to ask his girlfriend to marry him. Maybe he wants my blessing or something." Sophie shrugged her shoulders.

"When are you going back?"

"Tomorrow. Why? I can see those wheels turning, Crawford. What's going on up there?"

"Meet me at the diner after work and I'll tell you."

Sophie eyed him with a sideways glance. "All right, but only if you're buying."

"Deal."

Sophie was trying every breathing exercise she could think of to calm down as she drove to the diner. She couldn't help but feel that something monumental was about to happen in her friendship with Sam. Spending the last three months really getting to know him had cemented the feelings she had the first time she met him: love.

When Sophie was sixteen, and now at age twenty-six, her feelings were the same. She was hopelessly in love with Sam Crawford. Under normal circumstances, she would be thrilled, but Sophie was utterly terrified. In her mind, she knew a relationship with Sam could be just what she needed. In her heart -- still badly broken and torn to shreds from her last relationship -- she didn't know if she could take the chance.

A few more deep breaths and a mental pep talk later, Sophie walked into the diner and slid into a booth across from Sam.

"I hope it's okay that I already ordered," Sam said with a smile.

"It's fine. You know my favorites." Sophie took off her light jacket and returned his smile.

"Bacon cheeseburger, but if we're talking Mexican food, then it would be enchiladas with spicy red sauce. Your favorite pizza is pepperoni, Italian sausage, and Canadian bacon with mushrooms. You make that penne with sausage and tomato basil sauce because it was the favorite thing your mom made you when you were little. Shrimp is the only seafood you'll eat, and you will eat it almost any way once it's cooked."

"Whoa," Sophie interrupted. "Is this the 'name Sophie's favorite food' game?"

"No, I just know what you like. Your coffee, food, favorite movies, favorite songs."

"Okay? You're kind of freaking me out here. What is going on?"

Sam took a deep breath before getting into the conversation he had been rehearsing for hours. "You know my favorites, too, right?"

"Um, yeah."

Their waitress placed their meals in front of them, and Sophie sighed when she saw the mouth-watering burger and fries.

"Well?" Sam asked.

"You want me to tell you your favorite things?"

"Yes." He smiled wide, showing his beautiful white teeth. "Please."

"Well, okay. You like bacon cheeseburgers, too. When it comes to Mexican food, your favorite is that steak burrito from that place on the plaza. Favorite pizza is supreme with extra black olives. You've told me you love your mother's cinnamon raisin bread. You would eat lobster every day if you could. Favorite color is blue. You live on café mochas. Your favorite T-shirt is the black one Caroline gave you for your twenty-fifth birthday."

"See you do know me." Sam was positive that his plan would work.

"Yes. I do." Sophie became more confused by their conversation the further they got into it, but it helped calm her nerves. "So?"

"I have a favor to ask. You can say no, but I hope you will think about it first."

She smiled, her bottom lip sticking out a little further than her top one. "Go ahead."

"We've established how well we know each other, and we get along so well. You know how my relationship with Lola has just gone up in flames so we won't be doing the meet the parents this week. You're a former Halston resident with beautiful brown hair and amazing blue eyes."

Sophie's heartbeat sped up as she began to see the picture he had created. Her lips quivered a bit before she spoke up. "Is there a question coming next?"

He nodded. Moment of truth, he thought. "Will you pretend to be my girlfriend this week?"

"Pretend?" was the first thing that came out of her mouth, and she immediately regretted it when his eyes went wide. "I mean . . ."

"Oh, God. I, um . . ." Sam closed his eyes and took a few deep breaths before admitting what he hoped to avoid in their conversation. "Things between Lola and I hadn't been going well for a while. Today was a relief to me, but my mother is going to kill me if I go home without a girlfriend."

"So, you want me to be your girlfriend because you are scared of your mommy?" Sophie tried to contain her giggles while waiting for his answer.

"No. Yes. Sort of." He rolled his eyes and shook his head of the thought of Virginia Crawford's disappointment. "The reason things with Lola had been going downhill was because I've started having feelings for someone else."

Someone else? Someone else!  Sophie was calm on the outside, but having a complete breakdown on the inside. Lola was bad enough; she didn't think she could handle seeing him with another mystery girl.

"Someone I know?" Sophie's heart pounded in her chest as she focused on the table, unwilling to look Sam in the eye.

"Yes."

Sophie could feel the bile rising in her throat.

"It's you, Sophie."

Her head shot up, and her eyes went wide as she looked directly into his. "Me?" she squeaked.

"Yes, you. To tell you the truth, I kind of had a thing for you back when we met. You were so beautiful -- are so beautiful," he corrected. "I know we flirted, but my mother had to remind me every time I saw you how much younger you were. But now . . ."

"The difference doesn't seem so significant," she said in a soft, breathy voice.

"Right," he agreed. "It might not be the most conventional way to start a relationship, but if you're willing to try, I promise you won't be sorry."

"Let me get this straight. You want me to pretend to be your girlfriend, but you really expect me to be your girlfriend?"

"Yes. The pretending part would just be that we've been dating since February, instead of from right now."

Sophie mulled everything over in her head and tried to think of a way to let him down. "You know you'll have to face my father?"

"Yes. The Judge might be an obstacle, but I figured that's where we could use Caroline and Drew."

"Use them?" She picked up a fry and took a bite, hoping it might settle her stomach.

"Say that we kept us secret because we knew Drew and Caroline were together and didn't want to make family stuff weird if it didn't work out." Sam reached across the table and took her hand. "Now, I know we can make us work. This last week without talking with you has been horrible. I can't believe I was still considering taking Lola to meet my mother."

"Virginia would probably rip her to shreds and forbid you to see her. Your problem would've been solved."

"Maybe. I won't let her do it to you. My father loves you, and Caroline will be thrilled."

"I don't know about Drew." Sophie's gaze fell back down to her plate.

"Hey, we'll work it out. I promise." He lifted her chin with his fingertips. "I promise."

Sophie's eyes watered, and she swallowed hard. She couldn't go through it again, even if it was Sam that was asking.

"I know Virginia can be very demanding, and I can see how much her approval means to you. So . . ." She sniffled as a tear ran down her cheek. "I'll pretend to be your girlfriend for your family."

"But, not for real?"

"I'm sorry." Sophie shook her head before she grabbed a napkin to wipe her eyes. "I'm just not in a place to start a relationship right now."

"Right now? Then you may be later?"

She let out a soft laugh. "Slow down, Romeo. You're a wonderful friend, and I care about you, but­ --"

He interrupted, "You're not ready, but when you are, I'll be here."

Sam kissed her hand. Part of his plan was working. He only had to get Sophie to realize that he was the right guy to take the next step with.

They talked some more as they walked out to their cars. It was close to three in the morning, but Sam still wasn't tired.

"So, I'll pick you up about nine tomorrow morning?" Sam asked as they stood next to her car.

"Sounds good. I really think it'll work out fine." Sophie smiled and grabbed his hand, giving it a squeeze. He surprised her when he brought her knuckles up to his lips for a kiss.

"Can't have me being a bad boyfriend, and forgetting the goodnight kiss."

"Not much of a kiss, I'd say." She had no idea where her brashness came from, but it led to something she'd thought about for over ten years.

"You want a real kiss then?" Sam pulled her into his arms, and hers automatically wound around his neck.

"Um, maybe, for appearance sake, we should try it out."

Sophie had never seen a smile as broad as the one that graced his lips, and when they touched her own, her world tipped over. Soft, yet firm -- he used just a little tongue and let out a soft moan.

Perfect.

Sam pulled back. "You think that might be something you can get used to?"

"Maybe so." Her face flushed as she realized she had never experienced anything like it.

After a rush of adrenaline from everything that happened at the hospital and her late night dinner with Sam, Sophie crashed hard the moment her head hit the pillow.

She woke around eight the next morning to the smell of waffles drifting from the kitchen.

"I love you so much right now." Sophie smiled at Lexi as she plated a hot waffle. She sat down at their breakfast bar and took in one of the things she loved most about her roommate and best friend: her cooking.

"I didn't hear you come in until after three. I knew you were going back to Halston this morning and needed a good start," Lexi stated humbly.

"Thank you." Sophie smeared her waffle with butter, before adding her favorite blueberry syrup. The first bite was heaven.

"You must have been tired. You forgot to plug in your phone." Lexi pointed to Sophie's phone with the dwindling battery life on the counter. "I think you have a couple messages."

Sophie looked at her text messages first. One was from Sam that told her he was running late and would be there to pick her up at ten. She sent a quick text back to him, telling him that was fine. The next text was from her father with the generic 'call me' message.

"Are you going to tell me what happened last night? I know you weren't at work that late." Lexi poured Sophie a glass of orange juice and passed it to her.

Sophie relayed the story of how she and Sam had one of their late night dinners. She finished her waffles while she recounted Lola breaking up with Sam and then him admitting he had feelings for Sophie. Lexi's jaw just about hit the counter when she told her that she politely declined the relationship, but agreed to pretend to be his girlfriend for the week for the sake of his family.

"Why?" Lexi couldn't fathom why Sophie would begrudge herself someone she obviously wanted.

Sophie stared at the countertop as she spoke. "You know what happened with Josh. I'm just not ready to get back into that kind of relationship again."

"That's bullshit!" Lexi slammed her hand down on the counter, and Sophie looked back up at her. "Josh was the scum of the earth. What he did to you was more than deplorable -- it was immoral and most definitely illegal. You can't let that asshole dictate the rest of your life. You could be happy with Sam."

Sophie nodded. She knew Lexi was right, but she was afraid of opening up her heart again. "He did kiss me."

Lexi smiled. "That's more like it. How was it?"

"Pretty perfect."

"Lucky bitch."

Sam arrived at Sophie's apartment at ten on the dot. He kissed her cheek before carrying her luggage down to the car.

"I know who Sophie McKibbin is today, but not all the back story. Can you give me the whole story?" Sam asked as he turned onto the highway and merged into traffic.

"You know my dad is the judge in Halston and has been single since my mom died. I had every single cougar in town trying to make me their little girl."

"Wow. That sounds annoying."

Sophie snorted at his comment. "Exactly. But about two years ago, he met Abby. She was a law professor speaking at a conference he attended. They hit it off, and she moved to Halston with her two kids a little over a year ago."

"You like her?"

"From what I know of her so far, yes. Her kids are still teenagers, so it's been fun connecting with them. I was out of the country when they met so I've only known her a little while."

"Ah, your African adventure."

"Yes." Sophie smiled at the memory of the children's faces. "It was definitely an adventure."

"What would tempt you to do that kind of work?" Sam was curious what would take her away from her friends and family, even missing her closest cousin's wedding.

"I guess you could say I was running away. I had just gotten out of a relationship that ended on terrible terms and needed to get away from everything. I had some friends from nursing school going, so I went." Sophie shrugged her shoulders, intimating she didn't want to go into it any further.

"Doesn't seem like you want to talk about the ex, huh?" Sam tried to keep his eyes fixed on the road, but was dying to see her expression.

"It's not that. It's just . . . I've only talked about it with a few people."

"That bad?"

"I was devastated."

He couldn't help, but turn his head to look at her and caught the sight of a tear running down her cheek.

"About him?"

"No, not . . ." Sophie looked out the window and saw the Halston city limits sign. "We're almost there."

Sam put all his focus on the road, and drove the car to his family home.

"It's been a while since I've been here," Sophie said, nervously before climbing out of the car.

"You know my dad loves you. Don't worry. Drew and Caroline are here, too." He kissed the back of her hand before he grabbed their bags, and walked onto the front porch.

Sam opened the door and set their bags down in the foyer. They quietly walked hand in hand to the entrance of the family room.

"I hope you saved us some food," Sam announced and caught the attention of his mother, father, Drew, and Caroline.

"Sam!" his mother, Virginia, gasped.

"Sophie?" Drew stood from his place on the couch next to Caroline.

"Surprise." Sophie smiled at her confused cousin.

"This is your girlfriend?" his father, Alan, questioned and took a step towards them. Alan was the carbon copy of Sam, with just a slight graying of his hair at the temples.

"Yes, this is my Sophie." Sam squeezed Sophie's hand that was clasped in his.

Virginia placed both her hands over her mouth to keep her sobs from echoing throughout the room. Her small frame shuddered with each breath. A few strands of hair slipped from her their confines and her crystal blue eyes began to fill with tears.

Sophie pulled him in close enough to whisper, "Is that a good reaction or a bad one?"

"I'm not sure."

"Of course it's good. Wonderful even." Caroline smacked him on the arm. "Why would you ever doubt that we would be anything, but overjoyed to know you're dating Sophie?"

"Um . . ." Sophie cleared her throat and spoke up, "it was nothing against the family. When Sam and I decided to start dating, we just wanted to make sure we were in it for the long haul before telling all of you because of Caroline and Drew's relationship. We just didn't want family stuff to be uncomfortable if we broke up."

Caroline was in tears when her arms surrounded Sophie. "Welcome to the family."

"Oh, Caroline. We're not even married yet." Sam shook his head from side to side before he pulled Sophie back into his arms.

"Yet?" Caroline whispered with a hopeful look on her face.

"Are you engaged?" Virginia asked.

"No, not yet, but maybe soon." Sam pulled her in closer and gave her a soft kiss on the lips. He heard Caroline sniffle as he pulled back from Sophie.

Drew scrunched his face up in a scowl. "You better make sure you ask the Judge first if you know what's good for you."

"Of course I will." Sam turned away from Drew to look at Sophie. "How about we get some lunch?"

Sophie nodded at his request and followed him into the kitchen. Unfortunately, his sister followed.

"I want to hear everything." Caroline passed them some plates, and they grabbed some pizza and sodas. "Did the two of you bump into each other at the hospital?" she asked and impatiently waited for an answer.

Sam wanted to be as truthful as possible, so he took a breath and launched into their story. "Yes, in the cafeteria actually. She walked in with her friend Lexi and I heard her laugh. I knew in an instant who that laugh belonged to. All the memories of her flooded my mind. I remembered what a crush I had on her back then. I knew I couldn't pass up the chance to get to know her again and I've thanked God that I have every day since."

"Sam," Sophie whispered as her cheeks darkened red once again.

He pulled her into his arms and kissed her temple.

"It's the truth," he told her in a tone which confirmed he had been entirely honest.

"Aw, you guys are so cute together." Caroline beamed. "Does the Judge know yet?"

"No," Sophie spoke up. "I think we will head over there this afternoon if that's okay?"

"Fine by me." Sam smiled before taking a huge bite of his pizza.

Sophie's phone beeped with a text message just as they finished their lunch. "It's from Abby's daughter Shannon. She wants me over at my dad's house as soon as possible. Crap! I forgot to call him back this morning."

"Tell her you're with your boyfriend and they'll have to wait." Sam wrapped his arms around her from behind and held her tight since his mother and sister were in the room.

"You don't know her at all. Something is up." Sophie placed a quick call to her father to let him know she was on her way.

Thirty minutes later, they'd made their excuses to Sam's family, and were on the way to the Judge's house.

"Shannon never texted back?" Sam questioned as he turned onto her dad's street.

"No."

They pulled into the McKibbin driveway, where her dad's car sat along with two others: Abby and Shannon's.

"I'm sure everything will be fine. Just hold my hand and stay behind me. He can't hit you if I'm in the way."

Sam blanched, but didn't question her instructions.

"Dad?" Sophie called out as they entered the house.

Shannon came screeching around the corner. Her black hair flopped against her back in a haphazard ponytail.

"Thank God you're here!" The slightly taller seventeen-year-old girl hugged Sophie tighter than she ever had before. When she finally stepped back, she noticed Sam. "Who's he?"

"My boyfriend. Now, will you please tell me what is going on?"

"Oh ho ho." Shannon shook her head from side to side. "I think you'll want to hear this. Go in the living room while I round up the guilty parties."

Shannon shoved them towards the living room before she went in the direction of the kitchen.

"What the hell do you think is going on?" Sam asked, clearly confused.

"I don't know. Maybe he already proposed, and they want to let me know."

Sophie's father, Vincent, entered the room with Abby, Shannon, and Abby's son Robert.

"Hey, Daddy," Sophie said.

Vincent stopped in his tracks at the sight of Sam by his daughter's side. His six foot four stature, dark brown, short hair, and steel blue eyes formed an intimidating picture. A confused look came over his face as he scanned the sight of Sophie and Sam holding hands.

"Dad, this is my boyfriend, Sam Crawford. Sam, this is my dad, Vincent McKibbin."

"Pleasure to see you again, Judge McKibbin."

Sam and Vincent shook hands slowly as it dawned on Vincent who Sam was.

"You're Caroline's older brother."

"Yes, sir."

"And you've been seeing my Sophie?" Vincent raised one eyebrow in question.

"Yes, sir. For six months."

Vincent turned to his daughter. "Did Drew know about this?"

"No. We kept it quiet until we knew if we could make a real go of it. You understand, right, Daddy?" Sophie gave him her best little girl pouty face, and he softened given his own circumstance.

"Sure, but we'll talk more about this later. For now, Abby and I would like to tell you something."

Sam and Sophie sat down on the loveseat while Vincent sat with Abby on the couch and Shannon and Robert sat down in the two chairs that flanked the fireplace.

"You know how close Vince and I have gotten over the past couple of years. The kids and I knew it was the right decision for us to move to Halston. More than that, we knew you and Vince were what we needed in our family." Tears rolled down Abby's cheeks at that moment.

"I want to tell you I've asked Abby to marry me." Vincent turned his head to look at Abby and smile. "And she said yes."

"What? That's wonderful." Sophie jumped up and pulled Abby off the couch, and into a hug.

"Wait for it," Shannon mumbled.

Abby pulled back and held Sophie's face in her palms. "I never expected to love your father the way I do and I know I don't need your blessing, but I would love to have it."

"Of course you have it." When Vincent stood up, Sophie wrapped her arms around him. "I'm so happy for you."

"Well," he cleared his throat, "there's more."

"Here it comes," Shannon stated.

Sophie looked around the room at each expression. Her father looked nervous, an emotion he didn't display often. Shannon was smug, which was her usual. Robert seemed happy and smiled back at Sophie.

"I'm pregnant," Abby blurted out.

That knocked the wind out of Sophie, and she plopped back down on the loveseat. Sam automatically wrapped his arm around her shoulder in comfort.

"Pregnant? Really?"

"After Robert was born, my ex-husband got fixed. Vince and I have been careful, but nothing is one hundred percent. I'm thirteen weeks and the doctors are monitoring me closely. So far everything is just fine." Abby looked at Sophie, searching for a reaction other than shock.

"I'm happy for you, of course. It's just a bit of a shock."

"I know and I'm sorry this is all coming at you all at once. You see, we want to get married this weekend, and I want you to be my best . . . Um, person I guess they call it these days." Vincent gazed at her with a look of hope in his eyes.

"Of course." Standing up with her father at his wedding was something she had never imagined she'd do. Within a week, she would have a stepmother, stepbrother, and stepsister. Then, less than six months down the road, a half sibling, another part of her father to share with him.

Drew had waited almost eight months to have a real conversation with his cousin. He never imagined it would happen at his in-laws home, but he knew he couldn't put it off any longer.

"You look troubled." Caroline sat down next to her husband on the sofa. "Sophie's not going to bite."

"I know." Drew threaded his fingers through his hair. His frustration with his cousin was at an all-time high. "We have to have it out, though -- one way or another. It's been too long."

"She's always going to be family. You'll work it out." Caroline ran her hand up and down Drew's spine, something that always comforted him.

"I just don't understand." Drew dropped his chin down to his chest. "What she did to Josh, I never saw that coming. You know, he won't even come into work anymore." He turned his head to look into Caroline's eyes. "I haven't seen him in three months. I'm scared to death to even go over there, but I think I might have to."

"You're a good friend and a good cousin. You got caught in the middle. I'm sure she will understand." Caroline smiled slightly in the hope that it might lift up his mood.

"How are you okay with this? She was one of your best friends."

Caroline nodded in agreement, but she'd seen the signs her husband hadn't. "I wondered what kept them together so long."

"What?" Drew sat up in shock. Caroline had never voiced any concerns for Sophie and Josh before.

"I could just tell. She didn't love him, or at least she wasn't in love with Josh enough to spend the rest of her life with him." Caroline sighed when she thought about the communication she'd had with Sophie while her friend was in Africa. "We talked when she was away. She was doing something for herself, finding out what kind of person she is. We did a video call a couple of times. I could see she was different."

Caroline took a deep breath before she divulged something she'd kept from her husband. "I talked to her after you had that fight about the wedding. Sophie told me there just wasn't any way to get out of there sooner. While we were on the video call, one of her little patients came into view and she introduced me to the little girl, who was maybe seven years old. When Sophie told her I was marrying her cousin, the little girl gushed about how wonderful Sophie was and everything she had done there. I knew I couldn't ask her to leave, not when those people needed her so much."

"I wish I would have seen that. Why am I still so angry after all this time?" Drew clenched his fists. He needed an answer to justify his rage and thought the only one who could give it to him was Sophie.

"Because you love her so much and she hurt you. You just need to talk. I'm sure it will all be fine." Caroline took his clenched fist in her hand and his fingers instantly loosened. "And did you see my brother? I haven't seen Sam so happy in years. He's even started drawing again. He sent me a few pictures a couple of weeks ago. I have no doubt in my mind that Sophie is his inspiration."

Caroline had been so hurt when Sam got his first hospital administration job. It took everything creative out of him. Within a few months, the photos of his work that she had been receiving every week stopped coming. She tried everything she could to encourage him to continue. Sent him supplies and even got him a subscription to an art magazine, but still nothing worked. Caroline was stunned when she opened an email a few weeks before and saw a drawing of her as a child. She was on a swing and her father was pushing her from behind. She suspected he had found his muse again.

"They did look happy," Drew admitted. He turned to look in her eyes. "But I need to know why."

The shock of her visit to her father's house stayed with Sophie during the entire ride back to the Crawford's. Sam understood that she was overwhelmed by the news, and was hoping some time alone with him would relax her. Sam hadn't expected Caroline and Drew to be waiting for them in the entryway when they walked in.

"How is the Judge?" Caroline asked, cheerfully.

Sam wrapped his arm around Sophie and answered for her. "He and Abby are getting married this weekend."

Drew recognized the look of distress on his cousin's face. "What are you not telling me?"

"Abby's, um, thirteen weeks pregnant."

"Oh, wow. That's a surprise," Caroline said as she turned to look at her husband.

Drew squeezed Caroline's hand. "Would the two of you mind if Sophie and I talked for a while?" Drew looked right at Sophie. "We have a few things to discuss."

Sam looked to Sophie to see if she was okay with Drew's request, and she nodded. He kissed her softly before he ushered Caroline into the kitchen.

Drew walked into the living room and took a seat on the sofa. Sophie followed him and sat at the opposite end.

"Nice to see you home," Drew stated with a cool tone.

"I came back in January like I told you I would. I moved in with Lexi and got a job at Lakeland," Sophie said with equal coldness.

"You missed my wedding, Sophie. My wedding!"

Sophie could feel the tears about to fall. She swallowed the lump in her throat, and tried to explain. "I told you then and I'll tell you now, I had a contract as well as a duty to those kids. Caroline understood. I can't believe you're doing this."

Her first tear fell as she looked down at her lap.

"You just up and left your fiancé, the job you said you loved, and your family, for what? To live out some Florence Nightingale fantasy?"

"No, it wasn't like that," she tried to explain.

"Then what was it? Josh? That man worshiped the ground you walked on. He would do anything for you."

"And anything to me!" Sophie screamed.

"What did he do?" he asked in shock.

"You mean you didn't know? I thought your best friend told you everything." The pain she'd been trying to avoid for two years crept to the surface.

"He told me he came home, and your stuff was gone. We wouldn't have even known about Africa if I hadn't got it out of the Judge. Josh has been a wreck. He hardly leaves the house anymore. He's doing some consulting over the Internet, but he doesn't even come into the office at all."

Sophie knew how important Josh's job as a graphic designer was to him. He and Drew were best friends that had been lucky enough to end up working for the same company. She still couldn't see how any of Josh's problems were her fault, not after what he'd done.

"You can't make me feel guilty about leaving. I'm sorry I missed your wedding -- I really am -- but apparently you have no idea what happened." She wiped a tear from her cheek.

"Then enlighten me." Drew crossed his arms in front of his chest and waited.

"Of course, you know Josh and I had been engaged for a while."

"A while?" Drew interrupted. "Over a year."

Sophie nodded solemnly. "At first, he didn't pressure me about a date because I was finishing school. Then I got the job with Dr. Thomas, and was settling in. Anytime he brought up setting a date, my stomach would twist and I felt like I'd throw up at any moment. That's not how a bride is supposed to feel." Her stomach had a very similar feeling at that moment. "I loved him, but I couldn't seem to take that step."

"Did you tell him any of this?"

Sophie looked up at Drew through her eyelashes.

"Of course you didn't. So you just ran away?"

"No." Sophie's focus went back to her lap. "You remember seeing me the day after his parents' anniversary party?" Drew nodded so she continued. "I walked out to the garage to get another punch bowl and Josh's brother, Ken, followed me out there. He pushed me up against the wall and pinned me so I couldn't move. The next thing I knew, Ken had my mouth covered with one hand, groping me with the other, and whispering the vilest things I'd ever heard in my ear."

"What?" Drew stared at her in shock. "Did he?"

"No." Sophie controlled her breathing enough to go on. "I bit the palm of his hand hard enough to draw blood then slammed my knee in his groin. I went back into the party and locked myself in the bathroom until I was sure I could convince Josh I was sick and we needed to leave."

Drew sat back shaking his head. "Did you tell Josh?"

"Yeah, that's when everything went to hell. He didn't believe me. We screamed at each other for what seemed like hours, but I'm sure it was only minutes. Then he . . ." She took a deep breath and tried to hold back the sob that was just waiting to be let out. "He hit me."

She heard Drew take a sharp breath.

"I was stunned at first, but then he kept hitting me. Eventually, I was able to grab a lamp and hit him upside the head. I ran out, and went to the only place Josh wouldn't think to look: Dr. Thomas' house. He looked me over to make sure there wasn't any significant damage and let me stay the night. The next day, while Josh was at work, Lexi and I cleared out my stuff, and five days later, I was in Africa."

Drew scooted closer to her. "Why didn't you tell me?"

Sophie sniffled. "I didn't tell anyone at first. Only Lexi, Dr. Thomas, and the Judge know the whole story. I just couldn't talk about it -- to anyone really."

Drew wrapped his arms around her. "You know I would have been there for you."

"I know," Sophie whispered.

Drew removed his arm from around her and took her hand in his. "I wish I would have known. Does Sam know?"

She shook her head no.

"I do now." Sam walked in from the kitchen, and stood next to the sofa near Sophie.

She stood up, looking into his concerned eyes. He wrapped his arms around her at the same time she wrapped hers around him.

"Maybe you can talk again later, Drew?" Sam asked.

"Of course." Drew stood and laid a hand on Sophie's back. "I'm sorry I was so mad. I was hurt and didn't understand."

Sophie just nodded as she pressed her face into Sam's chest to cover up her sob.

Sam nodded to Drew and led her up to his room.

They lay down in his bed and held each other close. Not quite the alone time he had been hoping for, but there was nowhere else he wanted to be.

After Sophie cried herself out, she lay quiet in Sam's arms. Almost twenty minutes later, she'd been completely calmed by the steady beat of Sam's heart as her head rested on his chest.

She could tell he was awake by the sound of his breathing, so she took the chance and asked the question she needed to know.

"How much did you hear?"

Sam's hand came up to the back of her head and he ran his fingers through her hair while he answered. "I heard you scream and came running, but froze in the entryway when I realized what you were talking about. I'm sorry, I know how reluctant you were to talk to me about it."

"I'm not mad. Actually, it's better this way. I won't have to go through all of it again to tell you."

The pair lay in silence for a few moments more before Sam spoke again.

"Is there anything else you'd like to talk about?"

"It's been over two years and I still can't wrap my head around it. Why couldn't he believe me?" Sophie moved her head from his chest and rolled onto her side to face him. "It's not like I can ask him now after everything that happened."

"Maybe you can't, but what about Drew?"

From what Drew had told her, Sophie knew they were still friends. It might give her some peace. "Drew and I have always been close, more like brother and sister than cousins. I'm not sure what Josh would do to Drew if he were confronted."

Sam ran his fingertip across her jawline. "Why don't I take you back to your father's house? We don't need to keep up this charade after everything that has happened today."

Sophie put her hand over his as his palm cupped her cheek. "I can't wallow in this. I want to be here with you -- for you."

He looked deeply into her eyes. They were a blue-gray color, like the ocean when it calms after a storm. Sam knew it was the absolutely last thing he should want at the moment, but he couldn't help asking, "May I kiss you?"

She couldn't let herself think at that moment, just feel. The urge to take charge and kiss him overwhelmed her. Their lips met in a soft caress, several gentle pecks before she pressed for more. The electricity of their first kiss returned tenfold. Tongues tasted with low moans mixed in, yet this time, there was more. Their bodies aligned, and hands roamed over soft curves and toned abs. Sam's hand slipped under her shirt and he trailed his fingertips up her bare spine. Her fingers fumbled with a few of the buttons on the front of his shirt before she laid her hand on his chest.

Sophie froze as his lips left her own to trail across her jaw. A realization of how close they were to the point of no return hit her hard.

"Can we slow down?" she whispered.

Sam planted his head face down into the pillow and mumbled.

"What was that?" she asked with a slight laugh.

He lifted his head to look at her. "I'm sorry. I got carried away."

"It's okay. I did, too." She toyed with a button she'd undone.

Sam looked at the red, glowing numbers of the alarm clock on his bedside table. "Dinner should be almost ready. How about we get cleaned up, and see what famous Virginia Crawford dish we will be enjoying this evening."

Sophie nodded and slipped out of bed to go to the en suite bathroom.

Sam lay flat on his back while he adjusted himself. It had been a hard day already and if he would be sleeping next to her, it was bound to be a hard night.

Sam and Sophie walked into the formal dining room hand in hand. Suddenly, Sophie stopped at the sight before her.

"It looks like they took the design from the store, and put it in your dining room," she whispered.

Sam let out a soft laugh. His father and uncles were the owners of a national chain of furniture stores: Crawford Furniture. Their flagship store was located in Kansas City, and his father ran the day-to-day operations from his office there. His parents met when the store hired his mother to design their floor spaces.

"Actually, Mom designed this here first, then they decided to make a duplicate at the store," Sam whispered back and pulled out a chair for her.

"Wow." Sophie sat, awed over the intricately decorated table. "All this for a Tuesday night dinner?"

"I have both of my babies home with the ones they love," Virginia said as she entered with a large serving tray. "I would say that warrants the good china."

She set down the tray of salmon and asparagus at the end of the table.

"It's stunning," Sophie commented. "I hope it wasn't too much trouble."

"You don't know Mom well enough yet." Caroline entered with Drew at her side. "She's so used to dinners like this. It's just second nature to her."

Caroline and Drew took their seats across from Sam and Sophie while Virginia and Alan took their seats at each end.

"I look forward to getting to know you better, Mrs. Crawford." Sophie smiled and looked to Sam's mother, seeing a genuine smile on her face, too.

"Me as well, dear. Now, let's eat."

The meal was delicious, and the conversation flowed freely. Drew entertained the Crawford's with some of his younger adventures with Sophie, which included one of their family camping adventures.

"The Judge was covered in bug bites and had Sophie put this awful smelling lotion all over his arms and legs. She was trying not to laugh the whole time. I had to run away and laugh because I'd never seen him so helpless." Drew shook his head and smiled at the memory.

"The Judge does not do helpless," Sophie stated firmly before taking her final bite of salmon.

"I can imagine," Alan commented. "He and Robert were in the store the other day picking out a new bedroom set for Robert. They seem to be getting along well."

"Yes, I believe they are. Actually . . . My father and Abby are getting married this weekend. They just told me this afternoon."

"That's wonderful," Caroline feigned surprise before she turned to Virginia. "Isn't it?"

"Of course. I'm just a little surprised." Virginia looked at Sophie for further explanation.

"They wanted to talk to me in person before they announced it. Abby said it's going to be a very informal ceremony in the grove behind the house. I think I'm going to con my roommate into coming down and helping with the dinner afterward." Sophie prayed that Lexi would be able to get the weekend off to help.

"I'm more than willing to lend a hand," Virginia offered.

"Thank you." Sophie was genuinely touched by the offer. "I'm meeting with Abby in the morning to see what I can do. I'll know more after that."

A feeling of pure contentment poured over Sophie. She'd never imagined herself in another relationship, but after she experienced Sam's phenomenal kissing abilities, and the new bond she'd formed with his family, she'd begun to warm up to the idea.

"I don't know what's gotten into my mother. It's like she's a different person." Sam unbuttoned his shirt as he and Sophie began to get ready for bed.

"I don't have much experience in the mom area, but my Aunt Carol seems to have jumped over the same kind of hurdle. Now that all her kids are married and settled, she's switched to a grandmother-type role." Sophie sat down on the bed with a pair of pajama pants and a tank top in her hands.

"Maybe." Sam recalled the times he was reprimanded for the way he used to look at Sophie. "If she hadn't discouraged me when we first met, you could have bypassed that asshole Josh, and we could be married with two kids and a dog by now."

Sophie took in a sharp breath. His words rang true and a pang hit her heart when she realized he was probably right.

"Maybe two dogs and one child." A nervous laugh left her mouth as her fingers tugged at the hem of the tank top in her hands. "I love dogs, but the Judge never let me have one."

"Then, we'll get a dozen if you'd like," Sam responded playfully and sat next to her on the bed. He took her hand away from the fabric she held and twined their fingers together. "I want it all with you, Sophie. I should have broken up with Lola the day we bumped into each other."

He studied their hands as she squeezed his gently, and urged him to continue. "After we went to the diner that night, the what-could've-been hit me hard. I should never have listened to my mother."

"Hey," she murmured

Sam lifted his head to meet her gaze.

"I'll admit, I've thought about it, too. If you're patient with me, I hope maybe we can make some of those things happen."

"Deal."

An itch on the side of Sam's neck woke him the following morning. The case on the pillow resting under Sophie's head had scratched against his neck with her minor movement.

He rolled further away from her, moving to his side and admiring her sleeping form. Her hair had been pulled back in a ponytail but the end had draped in front of her shoulder and was tucked beneath her chin. Her skin was fresh and light without a speck of makeup on. Her lashes fluttered as her eyes moved slightly in sleep. In other words, Sophie was perfect. Well, perfect to him. He couldn't let a moment like that pass him by, so being quiet, he slipped out of the bed to search for what he needed.

A legal-sized drawing pad and charcoal pencils lay on his desk. He picked them up and went back to sit on the bed. He flicked the cover over the spiral rings, chose his pencil, and got to work.

A half an hour later, Sophie woke to the sound of pencil strokes across paper.

"What are you doing?" she asked, groggily.

"Drawing," he stated and continued on.

"Is this something I need to know about?" She raised an eyebrow at him as he glanced up but then returned to his work. "Am I going to wake up to you drawing all the time?"

That question stopped him in his tracks. His drawing ceased, and he flipped the cover to conceal his work. "Does it bother you?"

"No, I just wanted to know if this would be a regular occurrence. That's all."

Sam placed the pad and pencils on his bedside table and moved to hover above her.

"I would love for you wake up with me on a regular basis, regardless of the drawing." He leaned down and gave her a soft kiss on the lips. "But you inspired me this morning and I just had to capture the moment."

Sophie's cheeks reddened when she realized he'd drawn her while she slept. She had seen a few of the drawings he had done for Caroline years before, but he hadn't ever mentioned drawing since they met back up.

"Can I see it?" she asked, allowing her fingertip traced his jawline.

Sam rolled off of her and grabbed the drawing pad, then placed it on his chest. "Come on over."

He patted his thighs as a sign for her to sit on his lap to look at the drawing.

Sophie smiled as she rolled over him, and then sat up, her girly bits tingling at the contact she made with his impressive morning wood. They both let out soft moans as she got settled and opened the drawing pad.

"You'll have to flip to the last one."

"No," she said in complete awe. "These are amazing."

They were all done in charcoal, but with a stunning clarity where you could almost see the color. They were all different subjects; yet they all gave her that same feeling. Her breath caught in her throat as she came to the picture he had just completed.

"Sam," Sophie whispered.

"It was a compulsion. I couldn't not draw you. Does that make sense?" he questioned, caressing the back of her thighs lightly with his fingertips.

"Yes, it does." She traced her lips with the tip of her finger as she looked at how he drew them.

"I used to keep a drawing pad in every room in case the moment hit me. The last several years, I've just kept one in my nightstand. Just in the last couple of weeks, the thought of you inspired me."

The care Sam took while he created every stroke was evident. He loved to draw, and it was obvious that he was good at it. It made her a little sad that he hadn't been able to enjoy it in quite some time.

A low beeping noise emanated from Sam's cell phone. He grabbed it off his bedside table and found a text message from Caroline. "My sister says breakfast is ready and that we can come down if we aren't busy."

Sophie looked over to find it was already eight thirty. "I've got to get back over to my dad's. Do you want to come with me?"

"How about I drop you off? I have to go help my dad finish the float for tomorrow. I'll come back when you're ready and we can have lunch, and then go for a swim."

"Sounds good." She sat up and slid one leg off the bed while she pressed herself directly on his erection.

"Ugh," Sam groaned.

"Sorry." Sophie brought her other leg over him to stand beside the bed.

"Don't be. I enjoyed it."

"I bet you did." She loved the smug smile that graced his face so she did what came natural and kissed him. "Get dressed before breakfast gets cold."

A moment later, Sophie found herself doing her own little victory dance behind the bathroom door that separated the two of them. Finally, she was comfortable with the idea of moving on and how wonderful it would be with Sam by her side.

Drew's thoughts wondered as he made the drive from Halston to Kansas City in the early morning hours of July third. He'd left his wife while she made breakfast with the excuse of working for a few hours. Thankfully, Sophie and Sam hadn't made an appearance yet. Drew wasn't sure he could go through with his plan if he had to face them first.

He pulled his car into the driveway of the man who'd been his best friend for seven years. At one point in time, Drew was sure the man would be family. Sophie destroyed the image that'd been cemented in his mind for so long with her confession the day before. Now, he had no idea what to think of Josh Reynolds. Was he friend or foe?

Drew walked up the cobblestone path that they'd laid four years ago over Memorial Day weekend. It had been the beginning of the revamp of the older home that Josh had bought for a steal at an auction. They had spent hours painting, landscaping, and doing little things here and there to make the house a home where Josh and Sophie could raise a family. The outside was still pristine, but he was sure what lay inside would be a different story.

When Drew knocked on the door, it seemed to echo, like when you whack on a hollow tree log. He heard feet shuffle for several seconds before the door opened, and Josh stood on the other side.

At that moment, Drew took a good look at his friend. The changes were drastic compared to what he looked like before Sophie left. His dark brown hair was much longer and unruly. The growth on his cheeks was at least a few weeks' worth. A faded pair of blue jeans hung low on his hips and a plain, black T-shirt covered his thinning torso. A minimum of twenty pounds had disappeared from when Drew had last seen him in person three months ago.

"Drew? What are you doing here?" Josh scratched the back of his head and his dark locks flopped around with the movement.

"We need to talk. Can I come in?"

Josh hesitated for a few heartbeats but opened up the door a bit wider. "Sure."

Drew walked in and shut the door behind him. The house that he once had so many fond memories of was almost barren. A couch and overstuffed chair sat by themselves in the otherwise empty living room. Drew peeked into the kitchen to see a small table with two chairs in the large breakfast nook.

"Are you moving or something?" Drew asked, following Josh into the living room.

"No, just too many memories. I put most of it in storage in case she ever wants it." A soft smile passed Josh's lips quickly as he got comfortable in his chair.

"She's what I came to talk to you about." Drew sat down on the couch and prepared to get pelted with a barrage of questions from his friend. Josh just nodded, solemnly urging Drew to go on. "Sophie's back."

"Oh." Josh dropped his chin to his chest and closed his eyes.

"She told me what happened the night she left. I need to hear from you what happened."

Josh opened his eyes and leaned his head back on his chair. "I see it over and over again every night. I close my eyes and see my fists . . ." His hand clasped into a fist. "It was like I didn't even know what I was doing. She was screaming at me about Ken. It was like someone else had taken over, and I had no control over anything."

"But why? I can't understand why you would hurt her. Can you tell me what you were thinking?"

Josh looked straight into Drew's eyes. "I've gone over it so many times. You know I idolized Ken. He was like a God in my mind. To think he could ever attack anyone, especially my fiancé, was out of the realm of possibility."

He let out a long breath as he ended his story. Drew continued to look over his friend.

"Has Ken been giving you something?" He worried Josh was strung out. Ken was a pharmacist and could get his hands on any number of pills. Knowing Ken the way Drew did, he wouldn't put it passed him to get his brother hooked on painkillers or something worse.

"I've been taking antidepressants. They're prescription. I've been seeing a therapist for a while."

Other than the obvious withdrawal from his friends, Drew had noticed Josh's work had slipped. He'd missed several deadlines, and even confused one account with another. It was very out of character for Josh and Drew knew something other than Sophie's departure had caused these problems.

"How is she?" Josh asked.

"She's different. We haven't talked much, but I think she needs closure. She doesn't understand."

Josh nodded before he asked the one question Drew was dreading. "Is she seeing anyone?"

"Um, yeah. Caroline's brother Sam. They work together now."

Josh pressed his lips into a hard line and nodded. He always knew it was a possibility that Sophie would move on, but he'd hoped for a chance to explain his actions first.

"Would you tell her to call me? Or maybe you could bring her over?" Josh's eyebrows lifted with the hope of hearing her voice again.

"I'll talk to her, but you've got to pull yourself together. I know it hurts, and you seem to feel guilty as hell, but you have to get on with your life. This," Drew gestured to the empty space that surrounded them, "is not living."

"Right."

Drew stood. "I'll talk to her tonight."

"Thanks for coming." Josh held out his hand.

Drew took it and they shook hands. It was strange for the two men, who had been friends for so long, but seemed appropriate at that moment.

Josh showed Drew out, and then went into the kitchen. Josh picked up his cell phone and dialed the number that had been saved in his phone for years.

"Dr. Hardy. It's Josh. She's back."

"Finished," Sam groaned as he hammered in the last nail.

It was close to noon, and Sam was glad to be done with his task. The Crawford Furniture float for the Halston Annual Fourth of July Parade was complete. The float that would serve as the Princess of Halston and her royal court's transportation was the best yet in his opinion. He hadn't been home for the Fourth of July festivities in quite a few years, but he couldn't imagine a better float sailing down the parade route.

"Thanks for the help, son." Alan slapped Sam on the back before he picked up some tools, and loaded them into his toolbox.

"It looks great." Sam wiped the sweat from his brow and wondered how to bring up the topic of Sophie with him. "Um, Dad?"

"Yeah?" Alan handed Sam a bottle of water before he settled down on the throne of their royal float.

"I wanted to talk to you about Sophie."

"Yes, I'm sure you do." Alan unscrewed the cap of his own water bottle and took a swig. "More importantly about how your mother feels about her?"

"Yes," Sam answered, and let out a deep breath. He thought it might not be so hard to talk about after all.

"First off, I want you to know that I had no idea she had threatened to cut you off. Well, not until yesterday."

"You didn't?" Sam thought his father would have been the first person she would have run to about it back then.

"No, and I can tell you right now, I would have never let her follow through with it."

"Dad . . ." Sam couldn't speak. Thoughts of all the wasted years hit him hard. What would have happened if he had just asked for his father's support?

"When she was sixteen, I wouldn't have approved of an intimate relationship between the two of you. I'm sure the Judge wouldn't have, either. However, I wouldn't have stopped you from continuing a friendship and possible relationship when she was a bit older. Please know this; never in a million years, would I cut you off. You and Caroline are the reason I have worked so hard all these years. I wanted you to have the best education, and the opportunity to do that without having to work three jobs or take out student loans."

Sam could see the absolute truth of his words in his father's eye.

"I wish I would have just talked to you. God, Dad. I was in love with her back then. If we could have just kept in contact, so many horrible things never would have happened." Sam slumped down on the step next to the throne where his father sat.

"Has your life been so horrible?" Alan looked at his son with profound concern.

"Mine, not so much, but Sophie . . ." His emotions were all over the place, but the two most prevalent were regret and anger. "Her ex did some awful things. None of it should've happened."

"Josh?" Alan asked, astonished. "Drew told me what a rough time he's had since they split up, but I never heard why it happened."

Sam huffed. Of course his father didn't know what kind of man Josh really was. "Sophie doesn't want many people to know what happened, but believe me, Josh," he uttered his name with pure disgust, "is not the wounded warrior in this scenario."

Alan nodded as he contemplated what to tell his son next. He had been livid when his wife had confessed her long-standing threat over their child. They still hadn't settled their argument, but now that Sam had told him how hurt he and Sophie had both been, he planned to talk to Virginia that night.

"I'm sorry if you both have suffered because of your mother. I want you to know I support you one hundred percent. If you two want to run off to Vegas tomorrow and get married, I will gladly drive you to the airport."

Sam laughed and smiled a little.

"I mean it." Alan continued. "I can see she has made you happier than you've been in years. Caroline mentioned you were drawing again."

"Yeah. Painting, too." His once empty guest room held a few canvases that he'd recently worked on.

"I want another one to put in my office then."

Sam turned and looked at his father. "You still have that one in your office?"

"Of course I do," Alan responded with pride. "I love the park scenes you used to do. Reminds me of all the times I took you and Caroline to that park with the huge slides. Even after you broke your arm jumping from a swing, you still begged to go."

"There is something about a place like that, it just inspires me. I did a drawing of you pushing Caroline on a swing from memory a while back."

"I'd love to see it and any of your other ones."

"Thanks. Your support means a lot. Mom could never give me that."

Alan sighed. "Your mom is wired a little different than the rest of the world. Her parents were terribly controlling, and I guess I didn't notice how she was doing the same thing with you and your sister. I'm sorry that I've realized so late in the game."

"Game isn't over yet, Dad. I'm just starting a new inning, and getting ready to hit a home run."

Alan stood and helped Sam up. He put his hands on both of his son's shoulders and looked straight into his eyes. "I'm sure you will."

"Thank you so much, Lexi. I'll see you Friday." Sophie hung up the phone and sighed in relief. Lexi had been able to get the time off to come help with the food for the wedding.

Sophie added a few more items to the list that she had started while she sat at the kitchen table. The menu was simple, but it was something more than two sets of hands would be able to handle.

"You need anything?" Shannon asked, placing a glass of iced tea down in front of Sophie.

"I'm not sure. Lexi will be here Friday morning to help. We've got the menu planned out. Dad and Robert have already taken care of the outside set up. Am I leaving something out?" After the exhausting morning Sophie had experienced, it was more than likely a few things would fall by the wayside.

"How about we try on our dresses and have some girl talk?"

"The dresses, of course! See, this is why I'm glad I have a little sister to remind me of these things." Sophie smiled as Shannon began to beam. Her soon-to-be-sister could be gruff and sarcastic, but deep down she was just a girl wanting a connection. She had found a strong bond in the form of a new stepsister.

They took the stairs two at a time like rambunctious children. Shannon arrived first and headed to the walk-in closet where the dresses were kept.

Shannon pulled hers out with a flourish. The plum-colored dress floated through the air as she twirled around the room. When it came to rest against her chest, Shannon's bright smile lit up her entire face. "What do you think?"

"It's beautiful." The dress had thin, spaghetti straps with a V-shaped neckline. It gathered under the bust area, and then flowed out passed her hips. It looked like the hemline would hit just above her knees, which would showcase Shannon's long legs.

"I'm glad you like it. Your dress is the same style, just in black instead of plum." Shannon placed her dress on the hook of her closet door, and then took Sophie's black dress out with the same twirling flourish.

"Wow." Sophie let her fingertips wander across the fabric as it flowed from the slight breeze that fluttered throughout the room. "I haven't had much of a chance to dress up recently, so this will be fun getting all dolled up."

"What? Sam doesn't take you out to any of those fancy restaurants in Kansas City?"

"Um . . ." Sophie wasn't sure what to say. Shannon would be her sister in a few days and boyfriends was one thing she thought sisters would talk about. "Can you keep a secret?"

"Yes!" Shannon put Sophie's dress on the hook with her own before she pulled her over to sit on the bed. "Hit me with it."

"Sam and I really haven't been going out that long."

"Six months isn't that long. Is that what you mean?"

"No." Sophie brought her ponytail in front of her shoulder and began to play with the end. It was a nervous habit she'd developed over the years. "Sisters tell each other stuff like this, right?"

"Well, you're the first sister I've had, but I guess so." Shannon grabbed Sophie's hand. "Please tell me. I swear I won't say anything."

"Okay." Metaphorically, Sophie put on her big girl panties and began to spin their tale. "I was friends with Sam's sister, Caroline, in high school. I always had a crush on him and found out recently that he felt the same way. When we bumped into each other at the hospital, we just clicked again. He was dating someone else so I didn't let myself hope anything would happen between us. I was sure I still wasn't ready for a relationship after what happened with Josh."

"Oh, man. The Judge says that guy was such a bastard. His words, not mine."

Sophie was surprised that the Judge had told Shannon anything about Josh. "How do you know about him?"

"I found some pictures in a drawer a while back and the Judge went into a rage about the guy. I've never seen him so mad."

Sophie nodded and swallowed the lump in her throat. "The Judge wanted to send him to jail for what he did, but I couldn't do it. That was when I went to Africa."

"Okay, so Josh was a douchebag and you were scared to get into anything new. But you love Sam, right?"

"Love?" Sophie released a nervous laugh as she thought about it. She did love him, and she wanted him more than any man she'd ever desired in her life. The decision she had made the night before was proof that she was ready to move on. "I do, but I haven't said it yet."

"Get on it!" Shannon smacked Sophie with her pillow. "What's stopping you? Sam is seriously hot."

"I'm getting to that part." Sophie grabbed the pillow out of Shannon's grasp to prevent any further smacks. "So he was dating this girl Lola. Real troll, if you ask me. Anyway, he had made a big deal about bringing her home to introduce to his parents but hadn't told them her name. That's another story. Two days ago they broke up in the middle of the hospital cafeteria, in front of me and everyone else there. Sam acted strangely after that and asked me to meet him for a late night dinner after work."

"Oh, this is getting good. It's better than any of those teen drama shows." Shannon's excitement encouraged Sophie to hurry her story along.

"He admitted he had feelings for me and was thinking of breaking up with Lola anyway. Then he told me how he was supposed to bring his mystery girlfriend home this weekend. I agreed to pretend to be her, but when he asked me to actually be his girlfriend I said no."

"Are you crazy?" Shannon grabbed onto Sophie's forearms with both hands. "Sam is gorgeous, rich, sweet, kind, and from the size of his hands, the guy does not lack in the man package department."

"Shannon!" Sophie could feel her blush flush across her face and down her chest. "We're not talking about his . . . his . . . man package."

"All right then, wise sister, why in heaven's name would you say no to him?"

"I was scared. I am scared, but I decided last night that I can't stay away from him."

"Yeah!" Shannon bounced up and down on the bed, which gave Sophie a thrill of happiness.

It was such a relief to get it all off her chest to someone other than Lexi.

"Thanks for your enthusiasm."

"You're welcome. I'll make sure you catch Mom's bouquet."

"I don't . . ." The image assaulted her without her permission: her in a white dress, her hair floating in the breeze as it hung in loose curls down her back; Sam in a black tux as he stood with a silver band ready to be slipped on her finger.

"You do. I can see it in your eyes. You want the husband, the kids, and the dog. I'm sure Sam is more than willing to give it all to you."

"Shannon," Sophie took Shannon's hands in her own, "I'm scared, but I have to go for it. I think I know just what to do."

"Then I'll help you any way I can. That's what sisters do."

"Do you know where my stash of bikini's ended up?"

Virginia Crawford never thought her decision about Sophie McKibbin would come back to haunt her. She had never been so wrong in her life. Her hopes for Sam would be crushed if he had taken up with that girl all those years ago. At the time, she thought her actions were for Sam's best interest. When her husband confronted her the night before, she wasn't so sure anymore.

She had heard him park his car in the garage and waited for him to join her in the kitchen for lunch. Her heart sped up when he walked in and took a seat at the kitchen table.

The turkey and Swiss sandwich she had prepared was soon placed in front of him.

"Thank you."

"Not a problem," she responded, quietly.

After Alan had taken a few bites, he set his sandwich down. "I can't explain how upset I am about what you did to our son. Especially after my conversation with Sam this morning."

"I can see that."

Her husband was usually such a happy-go-lucky guy. The stern nature she seemed to display was calmed by his exuberance for life. He was the yin to her yang. That day, he was the most solemn she'd ever seen him throughout their entire relationship.

"I love you, Virginia. I know you were just looking out for Sam. What you don't see is that both of their lives were forever damaged by your interference."

"But --"

"No," he interrupted, keeping his voice low, but firm. "Those two are perfectly suited for each other. Sophie inspires him like no one else has. He loves his art again, something he dedicated years of his life to until you hammered it out of him."

"I . . ." It was very unusual for Virginia to show emotions like fear, sadness, or regret. At that moment, she wasn't sure how to handle the feeling of all three at once.

"He wants Sophie. He wants his art. I'm going to tell you this right here and now. I support them wholeheartedly. If you want what is best for our son, you will, too."

Virginia nodded. She knew she'd have to take steps to get to know the woman Sophie had become. For herself and for Sam, she prayed she wasn't too late.

"I had a great time with Shannon," Sophie told Sam while they floated in his parents' pool later that afternoon.

"It's nice to have a little sister, isn't it?"

"I never knew what I was missing, but, yeah, it's pretty great."

Sam swam closer to Sophie and placed his palms on her waist. "I'm so happy for you."

She brought her hands out of the water, running her fingertips through his wet hair. "I'm happy for me, too."

He leaned in and placed a soft kiss on her wet lips. "I need to tell you something. Can we just stand like this until I'm done?"

Sophie's heart rate spiked with worry. She wondered what obstacle they'd be up against next.

"Okay."

Sam took a deep breath and brought his forehead to rest against hers. "When we were younger and my mother noticed our feelings for each other, she made it known that it wasn't a possibility."

"I know. You told me she's the reason you stayed away."

He brought his hand up to her face, caressing her cheek with his thumb. "What I didn't tell you is that she told me she'd cut me off if I didn't stay away."

"Oh, Sam." Sophie wrapped her arms around him and held him in a tight hug. She knew his mother didn't care much for her, but hadn't imagined the woman would make such a threat to her own son.

"I just found out my father had no idea what she'd done. He told me he supports us and would've never let her carry through with her threat."

She bit down hard on her bottom lip in an attempt to let him finish without interruption.

"I'll admit she had her reasons. Not sure I'd use the word obsessed, but you were all I could think about. You were all I could draw for months. Cutting myself off from you when I moved to Boston was torture. Caroline would mention you over the years and bring it all back."

"You know, it was the same for me." Sophie kissed his cheek before she rested her chin on his shoulder. Her lips were just a breath away from his ear. "I tried to justify it by telling myself it was just a crush. I never felt a tenth of what I feel with you for anyone else. My pulse races and I ache for you to be inside me. The things I want to do to you right now might send me straight to Hell, but I wouldn't care as long as they're with you."

Sam's rock hard erection pressed against her belly as he moaned.

"I'll be right there beside you. I have ten years of fantasies waiting to be fulfilled." He pulled back just a bit so he could look her in the eye. "You have to know I'll never be able to tell you how sorry I am for all the years we spent apart. I promise, I will make it up to you."

Sam placed slow kisses up the side of Sophie's neck, and her head dropped back. He nipped lazily at the column of her throat before his lips hovered in front of hers.

"I want you, Sophie. Always. I'll spend the rest of my life showing you how much."

"Starting now?" she asked in a whisper.

"God, yes," he answered.

Gooseflesh rose over the expanse of her skin not covered by her purple bikini. Her heart thumped wildly in her chest as she realized a crossroad had presented itself -- the point of no return. Hold back or move forward? As his breath mingled with her own, the answer came to her with brilliant clarity. She pressed forward and kissed him with all the pent-up desire she had in her.

Slightly stunned by the sudden movement, Sam's feet slipped on the bottom of the pool. He regained his stance and brought his hands underneath the curve of her backside. Sophie followed his direction and wound her legs around his waist. Her center ached as she pressed hard against his prominent erection.

"I don't want to wait anymore," she muttered between kisses.

"The guest house," he whispered in a labored breath. It was the closest place he knew that had a bed and knew they wouldn't be interrupted.

"I'll race you. First one there gets to be on top." Sophie swam toward the steps in hope that she'd claim the prize.

Blood engorged his already hard cock as Sam watched her climb the steps. The sight of her tight ass in that tiny bikini bottom made him slowly follow her. The image of her above him tempted him to throw their race.

When he reached the bottom of the steps, Sophie took off in a sprint toward the guest house. Sam knew she already had the lead on him, that didn't stop his own sprint.

She threw open the door and ran in the direction of the bedroom. He was quick to follow her in the house and securely locked the door. Her giggles echo down the hallway as he moved toward the bedroom.

Sam stood stock still once he reached the doorway. The purple bikini he had fantasized about stripping off all afternoon was gone. Her skin held a golden hue -- everywhere.

"I won." Sophie crooked her finger, beckoning him to her.

"I'd say I'm the winner this round," he spoke and walked to stand before her. His desire permeated his skin and seeped deep into his bones. Never in his thirty-one years had he ever wanted one single thing so much.

It was a split second decision on which part of her bare body to touch first, but when his thumb caressed the soft skin above her hip, she moaned and he knew he had made the right choice.

"Are you absolutely sure about this?" Sam held his breath in anticipation of her answer.

Sophie placed her hand over his heart and felt the frantic rhythm that matched her own. Her fate had been sealed as the staccato beats reverberated under her fingertips.

"It's supposed to be you and me. I knew the second I saw you again. Felt it right here." Slowly, she brought his hand up her torso and placed it above her own heart. "I'm scared. Probably more scared than I've been in my entire life. This is real. I pray you won't hurt me."

"Sophie." His fingertips gently danced up her chest to her neck and then stroked her jawline. "I can't let you get away again."

She stepped forward to press her breasts against the sun-kissed skin of his chest. Raising herself up on her toes, his lips were right there to meet hers.

Their kisses became frantic when Sam's swim trunks were lost to the floor and they lay down on the bed. His cock nestled between her legs. The feel of the wetness on her thighs caused a surge of lustful hunger to course through both of them.

As his tip found her entrance, a thought hit him with a jolt.

"No condoms," Sam breathed between kisses.

Sophie wanted to assure him it was taken care of. The shot she'd received after returning from Africa would take care of any birth control worries. A long explanation would take away from the moment, so she uttered a few words.

"Shot."

Kiss.

"Clean."

Kiss.

"You?"

Kiss.

"Thank God," Sam muttered as his mouth dropped from her lips to suckle her hardened nipple. "I'm clean. No worries."

He'd always used condoms and his last exam had been just a few months beforehand.

"What . . ." Sophie arched her back and moaned when he switched from one nipple to the other. "What are you waiting for then?"

Sam didn't need any more reassurance and positioned himself at just the right spot.

"Wait," she gasped.

"What's wrong?" he asked in a panic.

She kissed him before she pushed him onto his back and situated herself on top. "I won, remember?"

"Right."

Sophie slowly lowered herself on him.

"Holy fuck," he sighed, grabbing onto her hips.

"Ugh, Sam."

She rested her hands on his chest to get a bit of leverage. With the help his hands gave her, it made getting a good rhythm going easy for her. She brought herself forward on the down stroke to rub her clit against his pelvis.

The angle she'd created drove Sam insane with a need to reach the finish line. He began to thrust his hips up to meet hers, one hand staying secure at her hip and the other wandering across her chest, down to her taught stomach to rub at her clit.

"Yes, right there." Sophie began to shudder as her orgasm approached.

"Just like that." His movement became frantic when she trembled around him.

"Sam!" she cried, a euphoric frenzy crested with his vicious thrusts. Her arms quivered as he continued his frantic pace.

"Almost." Three brilliant strokes later and his own euphoria took hold of him.

Sophie collapsed on his chest and tried to calm herself.

"Fuck," he whispered in a shaky breath.

"Yes, I agree." She smiled, propping her chin on his chest to look into his twinkling blue eyes.

"Never could I believe that --"

"I know," she interrupted. Sophie could tell it was the best sex either of them had ever experienced.

Sam ran his fingertips up and down her spine as he slipped out of her.

"We have to make time to do that on a regular basis," she stated, firmly.

"Oh, we have many more fantasies to work on. Give me about ten minutes and I'll take my turn on top."

She kissed his chest over his heart. "You have a deal."

"You missed dinner." Virginia caught Sam when he was going through the refrigerator later that night.

"Sorry. We were swimming, and then fell asleep in the guest house." He wasn't about to tell his mother about the fantasies they'd ticked off their list between naps.

"I misjudged her, didn't I?"

Sam withdrew everything he needed to make their sandwiches and placed all of it on the counter before he answered. "Yes, you did."

Virginia was nervous, but she knew for the sake of her family, a huge apology was in order. "I see that now. Your father and I had a long talk this afternoon. I'm sorry for the pain I caused the both of you. My wants at the time were for your success, not heartbreak."

"Can you accept her now?"

Virginia nodded and took a step closer to him.

"She's not going away," Sam added. "Sophie's still the beautiful, intelligent, successful woman I knew she'd be all those years ago. The road she'd taken to get there was a hard one, but we'll be taking that road together from now on."

"I understand." Virginia took the bread and began to prepare two sandwiches.

"Good." Sam stood and watched as his mother prepared their dinner.

"There you go," she said with a smile and passed the two plates to him.

"Thanks. We'll be here for breakfast, but then we're all going downtown, right?"

"Yes. The day will be fantastic this year. We have more floats in the parade than ever before. The new food pavilion is amazing. I can't wait for you to see it."

There was the mother he knew and loved; the excited and vibrant woman, who planned and created events that'd forever be marked in his memory.

"Me either, Mom."

Virginia took a chance and gave him a hug -- one that he returned in kind.

"We'll be all right?"

He held her a bit tighter. "Yes, Mom. We will."

July Fourth arrived with a bang and several orgasms. Sam and Sophie made love off and on since the afternoon before. The next morning, they'd made an appearance at breakfast in the Crawford kitchen.

"Missed you two last night," Caroline said, eying Sam and Sophie.

The couple sat down at the breakfast table before they acknowledged her comment.

"We went swimming yesterday afternoon and wore ourselves out. We were napping in the guest house." Sophie hoped her poker face had worked on Caroline. She didn't want to get into their girl talk with Sam's parents around.

"Swimming? Yeah, sure," Caroline replied.

Sam kicked his sister in the shin under the table. When Caroline looked up, he tipped his head to the right, indicating he didn't want to talk about it in front of their parents.

Caroline nodded and passed him some blueberry muffins.

Sam noticed Drew hadn't paid any attention to what had happened since they arrived at the table. When Drew finally looked up, his vision was set on Sophie.

"Sophie?" Drew asked.

"Yes," she responded, looking at him.

"I went to see Josh yesterday."

Caroline dropped the knife she had used to butter her muffin with a loud clang. Virginia and Alan moved from the heart of the kitchen to the table to hear what Drew would say.

"And?" Sophie swallowed hard as she thought about how their conversation might have gone. She grabbed Sam's hand under the table and held it on her own her lap.

Drew cleared his throat nervously. "He knows he was wrong, and I do believe he's sorry. He asked to talk to you or see you."

"I don't know." Sophie turned to Sam to judge his reaction.

"It's up to you. If you want me to be, I'll be right by your side." Sam rubbed his thumb across the back of her hand.

"What else did he say?" Sophie asked Drew.

"Um, he's in therapy. I think he knows now how bad he's gotten since you left. He's lost weight. Since he's started working from home, his work has slipped. The house . . ." Drew shook his head as he thought of all the emptiness. "He's put almost everything in storage in case you wanted it someday."

Drew looked up to Sophie and hoped she'd believe in his words. "What he did to you was horrible, but it sounds like Ken was the real ringleader behind the whole thing. I never liked that guy."

Sophie nodded in agreement. Ken had always given her the creeps, but he was Josh's brother. She thought he'd be family, and despite her feelings, she had trusted him.

Drew continued. "I think he just wants a chance to apologize. You both need some closure, right?"

Sophie nodded, again. It was the absolute worst time to think about Josh. She prayed the memories of the night before and that morning with Sam wouldn't be marred by the conversation about her ex-fiancé. Drew was right to talk to her about it, but she wished he'd waited a few more days before they discussed it.

"After the wedding and when things have settled down, I'll call him."

Sam gave her hand a squeeze and she saw Drew give her a small nod.

Virginia directed the conversation toward the day's festivities as breakfast continued. The parade was the main topic. Sam was excited for Sophie to see the float he'd worked on.

"The fireworks will be spectacular," Virginia said with a bit of whimsy.

"They always are," Caroline agreed with a dream-like voice of her own.

"I want to take you some place special to watch the fireworks," Sam whispered to Sophie.

"What? Where?"

"It's a surprise. Don't worry. We'll have a great view of the show."

Sophie smiled before she placed a light kiss on his lips. "If you're with me, any view will be great."

The couple made it to the festivities in downtown Halston just after one o'clock. Even after their enormous breakfast, Sophie's stomach rumbled at the sight of the food pavilion.

"Oh, my God! Fried beer? When did they invent that?" Sophie drug Sam over to the booth with the large sign that offered all kinds of fried delights.

They each ordered the fried beer. It consisted of five servings of ravioli-type pasta with a small amount of beer nestled inside that were fried and served with melted cheddar cheese. Sophie couldn't resist a fried Snickers bar while Sam got a fried Oreo for dessert.

A few carnival games caught Sophie's eye and Sam set out to win her a few prizes. She couldn't contain her astonishment when she came face to face with Ken, who ran the fish bowl toss.

All rational thought left Sophie as she stormed over to the booth.

"What the fuck are you doing here?" she seethed.

Shock crossed Ken's round face. "Sophie? When did you get back?"

"I've been back for months. Now answer my question, Ken!"

Sam had reached Sophie and stood behind her as the scene unfolded.

"The -- the pharmacy opened a branch here a year and a half ago. I'm the manager." Ken waved his hand above his head to show the Martinson's Pharmacy banner.

"You mean they made you a manager?" Sophie's voice rose to an octave to be heard by anyone within a hundred yards.

Ken laughed nervously and walked outside of the booth toward her. "Lower your voice, please."

"I will not lower my voice, you piece of shit! Do you realize what you did to me? What your brother did?"

"I thought the reason you didn't marry Josh was because you wanted me." He smiled and let out a little laugh. "Admit it. You eye fucked me every chance you got."

"Wrong answer, fucker!" Sophie reared back and threw her best left hook.

Ken went down with a loud thud, but she wasn't even close to finished with him. She jumped on top of his prone form, and then scratched, slapped, and punched him until Sam pulled her off of him.

"I'm not done with you!" she screamed as Sam held her tight.

"I'm afraid you are, miss."

Sophie was wrenched from Sam's embrace and her wrists were instantly locked in a pair of metal handcuffs.

"You're under arrest for assault. Come on." A Halston deputy began to pull her toward a squad car.

Sam was about to protest when Sophie shouted an order at him. "Call the Judge!"

He nodded and pulled his phone out to dial his number. The Judge answered on the third ring.

"Crawford, this better be good. I'm just about to test some fireworks."

"Sophie's been arrested. Is that a good enough reason for you?"

"I don't think you're going to need that phone call," the Judge stated as he walked into the holding cell area to find his daughter behind bars.

She laughed when she saw the smile cross her father's face. "Bet you never thought you'd see me here, huh?"

"Not something I envisioned for my daughter." He crossed his arms in front of his chest and watched while she stood and flexed her swollen hand. "Does it hurt?"

"Like a bitch," she laughed. "But it was worth it."

"You know this wouldn't have happened if you would have brought charges against those two in the first place." The Judge's fatherly smile soon turned into a grimace.

Sophie refused to answer him. It was clear she'd had several lapses in judgment in the past. She didn't think a jail cell was the best place to fess up to all of them. "How much trouble am I in?"

"That depends."

"On what?" she asked, grabbing onto the bar with her uninjured hand.

The Judge's lip quivered for a few seconds before he let out a boisterous laugh.

"Dad!" she screamed.

"Oh, Sophie. It's so nice to see you squirm, even just a little."

"Come on," she whined. Not only did her hand hurt like hell, she desperately wondered what Sam thought of her after the attack.

"Ken and I had a little talk. I reminded him it wasn't too late to bring charges against him and his brother. That being said, he decided not to press charges. Deputy?" he called out.

The deputy that had arrested her came into the cell area and unlocked her cell. "You're free to go, Miss McKibbin."

"Thank you," she exclaimed, stepping out of the cell and into her father's arms.

"If we hurry, we'll make the fireworks show. I think someone is waiting for you."

"Thanks, Daddy."

Sam was just where the Judge said he'd be. Sophie assumed the spot on the hill that overlooked their hometown was the special place he'd told her about earlier that day.

"Should I ask if you were impressed by my mad fighting skills?" Sophie waited for him to turn around before she moved any further.

"Get over here, Laila Ali." He opened his arms to her and she eagerly walked into his embrace.

"I'm sorry I missed the parade."

"Don't worry. My mother took plenty of pictures." Sam kissed the top of her head and sighed with relief that the Judge was able to get her out of the trouble she had created for herself.

"God, you must think I'm such a mess."

He stepped back and cupped her jaw with his left palm. "You are the most beautiful woman I have ever met -- eons away from a mess. You have no idea how sexy the sight of you taking that guy down was to me."

"Really?"

"Yes, really." Sam leaned in and gave her a soft kiss. "I love you, Sophie. You could beat the crap out of the whole Halston Police Force and it wouldn't change a thing."

Sophie's breath caught in her throat at his declaration, but she knew she had to tell him how she felt. "Maybe later, Crawford. I think I'd like to watch some fireworks with the man I love."

The fireworks burst through the air and illuminated their faces with shades of blue and purple light.

Sophie placed her hands on his chest as his fingers threaded through her hair.

"I think we've got some fireworks of our own going on right here." Sam kissed her once again.

"I think you're right."

Three years later

"Ophie?"

Sophie turned from her laptop to find her two-year-old sister, Addison, approaching with a sleepy look in her eyes. "Hey, did you have a good nap?"

"Yep. Where Am?" Addison was still having trouble with the elusive letter S. Sophie was Ophie and Sam was Am just for her.

"Painting in his studio. He's making a special picture for Mom and Dad's anniversary. Remember the party we're having?"

Addison nodded, then held her arms up indicating Sophie needed to pick her up.

Once Addison was settled in Sophie's lap, she began to ask more questions. "Tell me about you and Am's party. I don't 'member."

Addison had been the flower girl at Sam and Sophie's wedding at just fourteen months old. Sophie had told her the story several times in the last few months since Addison discovered herself in their wedding pictures.

"It was on Valentine's Day. You wore that red and black dress with little roses all over it. I wore a white dress with lace that Mom and Shannon helped me pick out." Sophie had taken to calling Abby 'Mom' to keep the confusion down for Addison. Abby was thrilled, regardless of the reason.

"Am wa' red!" Addison clapped and bounced on Sophie's lap as she remembered the small detail.

"Yes, Sam wore a red tie like his Dad, Robert, and Drew. And Shannon, Lexi, and Caroline wore red dresses."

"Red flower!" It was all coming back to Addison.

"Red roses, yes. See, you remember."

On their first Valentine's Day together, Sam proposed over bacon cheeseburgers at their favorite diner. They were married in a small church ceremony the following year. With Sam's proposal came a new opportunity for both of them: a move back home.

Halston was where they belonged, even if it was such a short drive from Kansas City. They'd found a house not far from her father's and moved in before she took a job as the school nurse at Halston Middle School.

By that time, Sam had left his job at Lakeland and was devoting all his time to his art. It paid off in spades during his first showing at a small gallery in Kansas City. He caught the eye of a critic from New York and was soon selling paintings faster than he could paint them. He was even commissioned for a few. Sophie was still his favorite subject, made evident by the portrait of her that hung in their living room.

"Then we had a party with lots of cake. You got it all over your dress and we had to strip you down to your diaper. We danced and sang and had the best time."

"Yeah," Addison sighed as she cuddled into her sister's arms. "I want a party."

"When you turn three, we'll throw a big party." She kissed the top of Addison's head.

Sophie turned her head when she heard the door from the studio close.

"How are my two favorite girls?" Sam asked before giving them each a kiss.

"Good," Sophie answered. "This one just woke up from her nap. Just in time, too. Dad will be here soon."

"I'm finished for today. I'm going to go clean up."

Sophie frowned and let out a little pout. He knew how much she loved getting him clean after one of his sessions, but with Addison there, her favorite pastimes would have to wait.

"Next time." Sam winked before running up the stairs to wash away the evidence of his work.

Not a minute later, Sophie heard a car park in the driveway. Addison scurried off Sophie's lap to see who it was.

"Daddy!" Addison screamed and pounded on the front window.

Sophie walked to the front door and opened it to see her father running up the front steps.

"Hi, Daddy," both girls sang when he reached the doorway.

Addison jumped into the Judge's arms as soon as the door was shut. "Hey, baby."

He kissed the top of Addison's head.

"Hey, baby," he repeated, smiling and kissing Sophie's cheek. Despite the huge age difference, both of the Judge's girls were his babies.

"Thanks for watching her today," the Judge said as he juggled Addison and tried to sit down on the couch.

"You know it's not a problem. This is the time of year when I have the most free time." July was her only real break for the school year. June was full of wrapping the year up, while August was spent preparing for the next one.

"You'll never guess who I saw at the pharmacy yesterday."

Sophie froze mid-step. Did he see me? She wondered. When she looked up to see his brow furrow and his eyes squinting, she knew he had.

"Are you going to tell me if I'm going to be a grandfather soon?"

"Sssh." Sophie sat down on the couch next to Addison and their father. "Sam doesn't know yet. I went to the doctor this morning after I took the test last night. I'm trying to think of a way to tell him."

After everything that had happened with Josh, she was afraid she might not be able to get pregnant. Turns out, Sophie wasn't the problem.

She finally got her closure with Josh not long after she and Sam got together. He explained that at the end of their relationship, he was fighting off depression. Josh admitted not believing Sophie was the worst thing he could have done. After they broke up, he went and got himself tested. It turned out he had a low sperm count and was the cause of the lack of conception.

After their talk, Josh was finally able to pull himself out of his depression with the help of his therapist and the right medication. Last Sophie had heard, he had taken a job in Chicago and was doing well.

"You could blurt it out like Abby did," the Judge suggested, but then shook his head. "No, don't do that. I almost had a heart attack."

"Maybe . . ." Sophie took Addison from her father's lap and placed her on her own. "Would you like to help me with a present for Sam?"

Addison giggled and nodded.

"Okay, this is what we'll do."

The next morning, Sophie took the time while Sam was out of the house to finish the project she had started with the Judge and Addison.

It was ready and waiting wrapped in a box with a silver bow when Sam arrived home that afternoon.

He saw the wrapped package and quirked his brow. "It's not my birthday. What could this be for?" Sam questioned with a laugh.

"Something Addison helped me put it together." Sophie was nervous but happy that she didn't have to keep the secret from him any longer.

Sam picked up the box and shook it. Sophie knew he had no idea what would be inside since this surprise was not planned.

He untied the bow and ripped the paper off. When he opened the box, he dug through the layers of tissue paper to find a picture frame. Tiny fingerprints in all different colors decorated the small white edges. Sam slowly spoke the words delicately painted on the frame. "Only the best husbands get promoted to daddy."

Under the glass was a black and white ultrasound picture with Sophie's name in the top corner. The little round sack was unmistakable.

"What do you think?" She asked, her stomach turning with the scant amount of lunch that had stayed down.

"I'm a daddy," he sighed with awe.

She clasped his hand in her own. "Our own little firecracker."

In one swift movement, Sam set the frame down and was on his knees in front of her lifting her shirt up. He kissed all around her stomach before placing one last kiss just below her belly button. "Hello, little firecracker. I'm your Daddy. I can't wait to meet you." He looked up at Sophie. "How far along are you?"

"About five weeks." She ran her fingers through his hair and his grin grew even wider.

"One of our shower sessions?" He wiggled his eyebrows a little.

Sophie felt her cheeks heat up in slight embarrassment. "I believe so."

He stood up and wrapped his arms around her waist while hers wound around his neck. "In that case, I think a re-enactment is in order."

"I think I can be convinced to participate." She lifted herself up to give him a quick kiss. "First one there gets the scrub down first."

Sophie took off running to the stairs.

Sam walked toward the stairs with a smile. It was races like this he always liked to lose.

He took one last look at the frame before climbing the stairs to find the mother of his child.

"Time for Daddy to make some fireworks."

Lindsey Gray typed her first complete novel at the age of twelve and dreamed of making her writing into a career. When her eighth grade class wrote a twenty year reunion story, casting her as a mystery novelist, she wasn't sure she could make it a reality. After years of writing off and on, she decided to make a go of it. In December of 2010 she finally made her dream come true with her first published novel, Lies Inside. Several years and thousands of written words later, Lindsey is still going strong.

When Lindsey takes a break from writing, she spends time with her husband of thirteen years and their two children, reading all kinds of romance novels, and hosting her own weekly radio show, Gray Matters, on TMV Cafe Internet Radio.

FACEBOOK|WEBSITE|GOODREADS|TWITTER|INSTAGRAM|PINTEREST
Other Titles Offered by Enchanted Publications

What the Heart Wants - an Enchanted Publications anthology

Summer Girls by Jami Denise

Tiny Threads by Jami Denise

Canada Square by Carrie Elks

The Shakespeare Sisters series by Carrie Elks

Cutlass by T.M. Franklin

Do Over by T.M. Franklin

The Talisman Chronicles by T.M. Franklin

Fireworks by Lindsey Gray

Holiday Cure for the Cursed by Lindsey Gray

Not the Same Season by Lindsey Gray

Chasing Castles by Jiffy Kate

The Other One by Jiffy Kate

Constellation by Jennifer Locklear

Breathe Again by Sydney Logan

Listen to Your Heart by Sydney Logan

Winter Song by Sydney Logan

Politically Incorrect by Jeanne McDonald

Compass by Jeanne McDonald

The Taking Chances series by Jeanne McDonald

The Contract by Melanie L. Moreland

It Started with a Kiss by Melanie L. Moreland

All Over You by Ayden K. Morgen

Jackson Stiles, Road to Redemption by Jo Richardson

Cookie Cutter by Jo Richardson

http://www.enchantedpublications.com/
