

**Flipping Numbers PT 1**

A Novel by Ernest Morris

Copyright (C) 2014 by Good2go Publishing

Published 2014 by Good2Go Publishing

7311 W. Glass Lane, Laveen, AZ 85339

www.good2gopublishing.com

Twitter @good2gobooks

G2G@good2gopublishing.com

Facebook.com/good2gopublishing

ThirdLane Marketing: Brian James

Brian@good2gopublishing.com

Cover Design: Davida Baldwin

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced without written permission, except for brief quotations to books and critical reviews. This story is a work of fiction. Characters and events are the product of the author's imagination. Any resemblance to persons, living or dead, is purely coincidental.

This eBook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This eBook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the author's rights.
**Table of Contents**

Acknowledgements

Prologue

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Chapter 9

Chapter 10

**Acknowledgements**

First and foremost, I would like to thank God for blessing me with the gift to put something like this together. Without you by my side, I would not have been able to make it through the many roadblocks and burdens that were placed against me. It is because of you that I have stayed strong and focused.

​​I would also like to thank Mr. and Mrs. Michael Lopez. You believed in me and stayed true and loyal, even when I doubted myself. Thank you both! That really meant a lot to me.

I dedicate this book to my late mother Jacqueline Morris and my late aunt Cathrine Heckstall. Even though you are gone, you continue to give me the strength that I need to make it in this cruel world.

To my children, Le`shea Burrell, Demina Johnson, Sa`meer and Shayana Morris: You loved me through all my wrong doings and never gave up on me, even when I left you alone in a corrupt world full of vultures, with just your mothers to guide you. Everything I do now is for you.

I would also like to thank and dedicate this book to a host of very important people in my life, none more important than Yahnise Harmon. Through my whole incarnation, you have never left my side. Yahnise no matter what happens in my life; you will always have a place in my heart. To everybody else: Dwunna, Kimyetta, Lyric, Jamie, Sedric, Kevin, Theresa, Loveana, Maurice, Rasheed, Frank, Rhonda, Lisa, Nyia, Chris, Nakisha, Brandi, Zarina, Tasha, Bo, Dee, Tysheeka, Barry, Laneek, Donnie, Dave, Tyreek, Scrap, Alisha, Tamara, Ed, etc... The list goes on and on. If I didn't mention you, I apologize. Thank you everyone for supporting me.

**Prologue**

**October 5, 2013**

EJ sat at home in his basement office, talking to his best friend and partner about their come-up in the game. They had been best friends since high school and had never let anything or anyone come in between them. If you messed with one, you better be aware because the other one wouldn't be far behind. EJ was the total opposite of Ed. He was a friendly and outspoken person. EJ stood at 5'9, medium build, low haircut, weighing approximately 175 pounds, firm and cut up with a beard. He was the mastermind of his small organization. He could talk anybody into doing whatever he asked. He wasn't a violent person, but he could get that way if you forced his hand.

Ed on the other hand, was a cold blooded killer. He was a little thin, but stood at 6'5. His skin was a brown complexion and wore long braids. He was missing a front tooth from being hit with a bat when he was fifteen years old. He was one of the most ruthless people someone would never wanted to meet. Anyone who crossed EJ or Ed might as well tell their mother to get out her black dress. There would sure be a lot of slow singing and flower bringing once it was all said and done.

Even though they both had wives at home, they didn't hesitate to snatch up a little piece of pussy from time to time at one of the clubs they frequented on the weekends.

Right now though, they were in EJ's southwest Philly home and they were all about business.

"Damn dawg; we finally did it," Ed said while pouring himself a drink from the bar. He was overly excited about the chain of events that had taken place over the last year. "You said that we would be millionaires by the time we turned thirty and now look at us. We hit the million mark and we are only twenty-two. I didn't think it would happen to us this fast in the game, but you had a vision and we turned it into a successful enterprise!"

EJ sat in his desk chair with a cool smirk on his face, admiring what his best friend was saying. Just thirty minutes ago, they both had pulled up their overseas bank accounts and realized that they had reached the millionaire mark.

Although that mark came at a deadly and hefty price, it was well worth it. Neither of them thought that they would ever see so many zeros at one time in their accounts so soon. They were living the lifestyle of the rich and famous and to them; they were finally on top of the world.

"Yeah dawg, we have come a long way from living in the projects, playing with carts and shit, dry humping on girls, and pretending that we were driving cars. Now we are actually doing that shit, from driving luxury cars to fucking some of the baddest bitches. We are also living in some exotic ass houses," EJ said while looking at a picture of him and his wife Yahnise and their son Ziaire.

EJ met Yahnise in high school and back then, she never would have given him the time of day. She was one of the baddest girls in their school. With a caramel complexion, she weighed 135 pounds, very petite, with a nice ass, and just enough titties to hold in both hands. After EJ started getting money, she noticed the change in him. Now, five years later, they had been married for two of those years. Yahnise still had that same body, but her chest and ass were slightly bigger from giving birth to their one and a half year old son Ziaire.

EJ put the picture down, got up, and walked over to the bar where Ed was standing. He looked at Ed with a serious face and said, "We have to find out who this mole in our organization is and eliminate him or her immediately! We can never enjoy all of this wealth until that's taken care of. We were lucky to make it this far and now we have to be even more cautious."

"I know what you are saying and I have people working around the clock to find out what the fuck is going on. When they tell me something, I won't hesitate to put a bullet right between their eyes," Ed said while taking his 40 caliber out of his shoulder holster and cocking it back. "But for now, I have to get home before Tamara tries to kill a nigga." Ed walked towards the steps with EJ walking behind him.

They both knew that business was now over for the night. Their wives had not seen them in a week and it was time to get some much needed rest. Tomorrow everyone would be going to Ed's mothers surprise birthday party. What they didn't know was that it could be the last day of their freedom....

**Chapter 1**

**October 17, 2008 (5 years earlier)**

Beep! Beep! Beep! The alarm clock went off letting EJ know that it was time to get up for school. It was his senior year of high school, all he had to do was get through this year, and he would be done with school for good.

Beep! Beep! Beep! It kept going off until he couldn't take the sound any longer. He jumped out of bed and turned the alarm clock off. He went into the bathroom to brush his teeth and take a quick shower. Twenty-five minutes later he was done and eating a bowl of _Frosted Flakes_ waiting for his friend Ed to come pick him up for school.

EJ's aunt came downstairs to prepare for her first customer of the day, when she noticed him at the kitchen table. "Hey baby, why haven't you left for school yet?" she asked as she made herself a cup of coffee.

"I'm just waiting for Ed to get here. He should be here in a couple of minutes. You know he's never on time for anything," he said while getting up and rinsing out his bowl.

"You know this is your last year of school. Have you thought about what you're going to do when it's over? I refuse to see you out in those streets selling drugs and shit." His aunt looked at him waiting for a response that never came. Ever since his mom died when he was fourteen, she had been his legal guardian. His aunt owned a hair salon that was attached to her house and she was busy with clients on the weekends. She always gave him spending money, but it was never enough to do what he wanted. The drug game was tempting, but he didn't know the first thing about it so he had to get a little job in the airport at this pretzel shop called Aunt Anne's. He made about $300.00 every two weeks and that kind of helped him out with his clothes and spending money.

"I really don't know what I'm going to do yet Aunt Cat, but it won't be selling no drugs so you don't have to worry about that," he said as he grabbed his jacket hoping that Ed would hurry up. He was tired of her always lecturing him about his goals.

The only thing that was on his seventeen year-old mind was girls and money. He was seeing a girl from the hood named Lisa that he only called when he wanted some pussy. Lisa was a real freak and she would let him do almost anything with her. EJ wanted more though in terms of women and life. He felt as though he was too old to be staying with his aunt and wanted to get out as soon as possible.

Just when his aunt was about to respond to what he said, he heard the sound of loud music, and knew it was coming from Ed's car. "I'll talk to you later Auntie," EJ said as he ran out the door and jumped in the car.

Ed had a Ford Thunderbird that his mom had given him when she purchased a new car for herself. It had a nice sound system that EJ had helped him install. They stole the system from Jerry's Corner over on Passyunk Avenue. It was easy because no one ever paid any attention to them and the man that worked there was too old to even notice. "What's up nigga," Ed said giving EJ a pound.

"What's up with you nigga," EJ said as he shut the door. "That's my shit right there. Turn it up and let these bitches start sweating us," he said as Ed turned up Jay-Z's _Hard Knock Life, Vol. 2_ album.

They both went to Southern High School on Broad and Snyder Avenue. EJ was by far smarter than Ed was when it came to education, but Ed was certified street smart and also had a way with the ladies. Women would drop their panties for Ed in a heartbeat. I guess you could credit that to his long braids and the fact that he had over sixty tattoos on his body. Women love the bad boy look. Plus he had game and could talk any girl into giving him what he wanted. EJ was shy when it came to women. Don't get it twisted though, he got plenty of pussy, but could never pull the one that he truly wanted. He really wanted this girl by the name of Yahnise.

Yahnise was from down the bottom (West Philly). She lived on 43rd and Westminster. She had a supermodel body and men drooled over her when she passed. She seemed like she only fucked with ballers though. Anyone who wasn't getting money and couldn't buy her whatever she wanted, shouldn't waste their time speaking to her. I guess you could say that she was way out of EJ's league.

When Ed and EJ pulled up in the school parking lot, a crowd gathered across the street. People were shouting and cheering as two girls were ripping each other's clothes off and pulling out each other's hair. Ed threw the car in park and jumped out, leaving the door wide open. EJ didn't know what was going on so he got out the car and looked around. He was thinking that his partner wanted to see some titties.

As he stood there, he noticed why his boy ran like that. It was Ed's sister Erica fighting. Upon further observation, EJ noticed that she was being jumped. He took off across the street to help his peoples. The two girls had Erica on the ground stomping her out when Ed approached and pushed them off of her.

Then he saw one of the girls spit in Ed's face as he made his way through the crowd. Before he could stop him, Ed punched the girl dead in her face, knocking her out cold before hitting the ground. Sirens erupted and the crowd dispersed. EJ grabbed Ed and Erica and they all ran back to Ed's car and jumped in. As soon as they left, the cops pulled up.

Erica had a bloody nose and her shirt was ripped open. Her skirt was torn on the side and it rose up her legs as she sat with them wide open. EJ couldn't help but stare at her perky breast as she tried to cover up herself. He had never looked at her in that way, but he got an instant erection when he looked down and noticed that she didn't have on any panties covering her bald pussy lips. He quickly took off his shirt and gave it to her. "Put this on until we get somewhere to hide out," he said and then turned back around fighting temptation.

"Thank you EJ and I know you were staring at my pussy. Too bad you're like a brother to me or I might have let you get some," she whispered in his ear and began laughing.

Ed looked at Erica and said, "What the hell is so funny? You just got jumped and once again I had to save your ass." He really looked pissed off at Erica. "Now that bitch might try to press charges if those cops push her to do so."

"The cops are the least of our worries right now," EJ said looking in the passenger side mirror noticing a car was following them. "I think we are being followed by a bunch of niggas. I'm counting at least four in that little ass Cavalier. Ed are you strapped?" EJ asked as he became a little nervous.

"Naw, but let's just see what happens before we jump the gun and start speeding for nothing," Ed said as he kept his eyes glued to the rearview mirror.

As they pulled up to the light on 21st and Snyder, the car full of men pulled right up to the back of them. Then the passenger door opened and gunshots rang out.

Bloc! Bloc! Bloc! Bloc! Bloc! Bloc! Bloc!

"Go Ed! Get us the fuck out of here!" EJ yelled as he ducked in his seat. Ed hit the gas pedal and pushed the Thunderbird down Snyder Avenue dipping pass car after car. The Cavalier was no match for the horse power of the Ford.

Bloc! Bloc! Bloc! Bloc!, was all you heard as the back window shattered causing glass to land on Erica as she ducked down screaming.

Once they were able to get away, they hit the expressway. Ed slowed the car down to make sure the cops didn't pull them over. He asked, "Is everybody okay? Did you get hit anywhere?"

"No, I'm good. You okay back there Erica," EJ asked as he looked in the backseat at her getting up off of the floorboard.

"I'm good, but who the fuck was that shooting at us and where the fuck is y'all guns at?" Erica questioned while brushing glass out of her hair. She knew her brother always stayed strapped.

"I don't know, but I sure intend on finding out," Ed said as he headed for his house on 67th Paschall Avenue. The whole time he silently wondered, " _Why didn 't he put his gun in the car last night?_" That mistake almost cost him and his family's lives. He thought to himself that he would never make that mistake again. Now someone has to pay for this with their lives.

**Chapter 2**

**November 20, 2008**

Months passed since the attempted murder of Ed, EJ, and Erica and finally Ed received the phone call that he had been waiting on. "What's up Ed? I got the word on why those niggas were letting off on y'all. That was Peedi's people and he said he wants his money or else someone is going to get laid down. I can't believe you would get involved with that nigga and you know how he gets down," Gene said as Ed listened while getting his dick sucked from Neicy, the neighborhood smut.

Peedi was one of the biggest drug suppliers in the United States. He had the whole East Coast on smash and had half of the West Coast on smash as well. Ed had been secretly dealing with him for a couple of months now without EJ even knowing it. He never flashed his money around because he knew that his best friend didn't want anything to do with drugs. He thought that if he built a small squad and made some major paper that he could persuade EJ to join him and be his partner.

He owed Peedi five thousand dollars from the last package he had given him. He was short a couple of thousand so he was avoiding Peedi until he got all of his money. Deep down inside, he knew that hit was meant for him, but he didn't want anyone else to know. Sooner or later, it was all going to come out, but until then, he wasn't saying anything.

Ed pushed Neicy up off of him and went into the other room so he could talk in private. "Fuck that nigga! He'll get his money in a couple of days. If he touches one person in my family, I'll touch ten in his! One thing I don't like is when someone tries to threaten me or my peoples!"

Ed knew how dangerous Peedi was. He had seen plenty of bodies on the news that was a result of Peedi's people, but he also was a dangerous man. At the age of seventeen, Ed also had a small body count that only his best friend knew about. To be honest, he wasn't scared of him. He just respected him so he was going to give him his money. He just had to do a couple of licks (robberies), give him his whole 5 G's and be done with him. Then he was going to find himself a new connect that he could try to manipulate.

"Hey, I need you to take me on one of your licks so that I can get his money and pay him. I really don't need this type of beef right now," Ed said pouring himself a shot of Hennessey from his mom's liquor cabinet.

"You know I got you this weekend after Thanksgiving. Everybody will be out shopping for Black Friday so there will be plenty of cars to choose from. We can easily make 5 G's and I will split it down the middle with you so you can pay your debt," Gene said.

"That's what's up, but I have to go now because I have Neicy in the other room and I'm trying to get some pussy before my mom gets off. You know she be bugging about these ho's," Ed said finishing off his shot of Hennessey.

"I feel you, but when are you going to tell EJ about the hit? You don't want him walking around out there and niggas pull up on him on some Rah-Rah shit!"

"He ain't no bitch and he can handle anything that comes his way, but I'm gonna put him down on some shit just to keep him out of harm's way," Ed said with a bit of irritation in his voice. He didn't like the fact that Gene was right. He did need to tell his boy about everything because if anything happened to him, all hell was going to break loose.

"Well nigga I'll call you when I'm ready to go on the route. Just make sure that you answer your phone because we have to be in and out," Gene said as hung up before Ed could respond.

"Damn! I hate when he does that," Ed thought to himself as he headed back in the living room where Neicy was sitting on the couch playing with her pussy.

"I had to start without you because you were taking too long," she said as she seductively licked the juices off of her fingers while looking at Ed who was grabbing his dick through his shorts.

"Well come over here and let me taste it," he said as he took off his shorts and boxers. When Neicy came over to him, he ripped her thong off and bent her over the chair. She spread her legs wide and lifted her ass up in the air while guiding his hand between her legs.

Ed teased her by rubbing his thick, sensitive head across her ass cheeks. It felt so good to her that it caused her labia to spasm, greedily reaching out for more.

"Don't you fucking play with me Ed! Put it in now!" Neicy demanded. He laughed at the sight of her making her ass clap against his dick begging for it. "Bitch shut up and take this," he said as his penetration jolted through her body like electricity.

She grabbed the back of the chair, clutching it tight. "That's it baby! Do me like that! It feels so good!"

She matched his moves, tightened her pussy around him, pumping her hips in a hard steady rhythm before he stiffened and growled. "Ahhhh shit! I'm coming!" Right before he did, Neicy's pussy spasmed and she came herself.

After they both got dressed, Neicy left so that Ed could take care of some business before he went to pick EJ up from school. He didn't go to school that day because he needed to figure out what he was going to do about Peedi. School would have only distracted him from the matter at hand.

When he pulled up to his crib, Neicy was walking past, wearing this short ass skirt that barely covered her ass and some leggings because it was a little chilly out today. He invited her in so that she could keep him company until he had to roll back out. Now it was time to get back to business. The only problem was, he hadn't figured out how he was going to approach Peedi.

**Chapter 3**

It was the last day of school before the Thanksgiving holiday and EJ was headed to his last class of the day. As he was about to enter the classroom, he spotted the most beautiful girl he had ever seen in his entire life walking towards the room.

Yahnise was sixteen, but very much out there for her age. She stood at about 5'2, caramel complexion, and long hair down her back with a smile that could light up any room with her pearly white teeth. She had on a pair of _Apple Bottom_ jeans and a matching, tight fitting _Apple Bottom_ shirt that sat just above her navel showing off her piercing. She wore a pair of _Jimmy Choo_ stilettos that made her look like she stood about 5'7 and her jeans fit her ass like a glove.

EJ had always seen her in his computer class, but today it was something about her that made him really want her. He wasn't getting any money like the little drug dealers in his class, but he wasn't broke. He knew that Yahnise was high maintenance and only the ballers had a chance to talk to her. As she approached with two of her friends, he held the door open for them and spoke as they entered the classroom.

"Hey Yahnise, how are you doing today? EJ said as all of the girls stopped and looked at him as if he had just cursed at them.

"Do we know you?" One of the girls asked staring at him. When he didn't respond she continued, "Unless you can get our hair, nails, and feet done, or take us on a shopping spree, do not speak to us unless we speak to you." They all laughed and continued walking into the classroom to their seats.

EJ wanted to say something, but instead he found his seat and sat down waiting for the teacher to give them their assignment. One of his classmates heard what the girls said and he came over and sat down next to EJ.

EJ looked up and said, "What's up Chan? Why are you looking at me like that?"

Chan was from New York. He came to Philly with his mom and dad when he was fifteen. They opened up a dry cleaners on third and Organ Avenue. What people didn't know was, Chan was a computer genius and could hack into just about any system if you gave him enough time. Chan and EJ talked, but not that much so it kind of caught EJ off guard when he came over to him.

"I heard what Sonja said to you when they came in and that wasn't cool," Chan said while booting up his computer. "How would you like to make some real money so that no one can ever look down on you again?"

EJ looked at him with a skeptical look on his face, wondering what he was saying. "I have a job at the airport so unless you're going to give me a better job, then I'm good," he said thinking that he wanted him to sell drugs or work at the cleaners that his family owned.

"No, I'm serious man. I can put you on to something that would make you a lot of money in one month. All you have to do is be willing to really listen and pay close attention to what I show you."

Now Chan had EJ's attention and wanted to know more about what he was proposing. "What do I have to do?" EJ asked curious to what Chan was about to say.

"You're going to the club Friday night;right?" EJ nodded his head yes. "Well, I will be at the bank across the street from there. I help my cousin clean up on Friday nights. The bank manager stays there with us until we are done and then she takes us in her office to talk about some things." Chan really had EJ's full attention now because he was wondering where this conversation was going.

"We mentioned your name a couple of times to her letting her know that you are a very smart individual, and with your brains and my computer skills, we could do some real damage. The question is; are you willing to put in some serious time and effort on this. We are meeting Friday at 11:00 p.m. You can walk right over from the club, sit in on the meeting, and be back over there by midnight. I can't really explain it all to you right now, but I will fill you in at the meeting." EJ was curious at this point. "So are you in or out?"

EJ was curious as to what the hell was going on that at first he thought it was a trick, but looking in Chan's eyes and looking at the way he dressed with all of the expensive jewelry, he had already made his mind up for him.

He always thought that Chan got all of that expensive stuff from his parents, but now he thought different. This would also explain the car that he was driving. He had a 400 GS Lexus with Dayton's on it. EJ looked at Chan and said, "I'll be there at 11:00." That sealed the deal.

Chan and EJ sat in silence for the rest of the class. EJ looked over at Yahnise and he couldn't help but notice the way her pretty lips moved as she talked. He wondered what they would feel like wrapped around his dick. These thoughts alone caused him to get an instant erection. At that moment, he made up his mind that he was going to do whatever it took to get that girl. She was wife material, despite her gold digging ways and he was going to make her his.

He was brought back to the present at the sound of the bell. It was time to get up out of there. "I'll see you on Friday at 11:00," EJ said as he shook Chan's hand, rushing out of the classroom before Yahnise and her friends came out.

When he made it outside, he walked over to the McDonald's to grab something to eat. He got to the counter to place his order, and saw a familiar face. It was a girl named Denver from Southwest Philly. She was one of the best boosters in Philly. She could get anything that anyone needed for under half price. She looked at him and said, "Welcome to McDonald's. Can I please take your order?"

"Yeah, can I get a double cheeseburger, medium fries, and a medium strawberry milkshake and while you are at it Denver, let me get your phone number because I will be needing your services real soon," he said while handing her a ten dollar bill.

She looked at him curiously and asked, "Do I know you from somewhere?"

Denver was a redbone with a nice body and a nice shaped ass. She always wore some nice shit courtesy of her get money schemes and EJ wanted to use her to grab him some shit when he came up.

"I see you around whenever I'm down Southwest. My best friend is Ed and he messes with your sister Shannon on and off."

"Oh yeah... I have seen you before. I knew you looked familiar when you first came in. You go to Southern, right?"

"Yeah, but I'm kinda running a little late so can we hurry this up a little," he said checking the time on his cell phone. "You gonna give me your number, right? So I can hit you up for your services soon?"

"Yeah, I got you," she said as she handed him his food and gave him her number. EJ programmed it into his phone.

"I'll hit you up later," he told her as he headed for the door. As soon as he got outside, he saw Ed sitting in the car waiting at the corner listening to State Property's song, _Chain Gang_.

He jumped in the car and gave his homie a pound. "What's up nigga? Why it take you so long to get here?"

"Traffic, but seriously I have some shit to kick it with you about on the way to your job. I know who tried to hit us," Ed said with a real serious look on his face. EJ knew whenever his friend looked like that; then something was really eating at him. He sat there and listened as his friend told him everything from the beginning to the end.

"Damn nigga! You could have been told me this shit. You know I got your back no matter what. I could have helped you get that nigga his money."

"I know dawg. It's just that I know how you feel about that drug shit so I was trying to be discrete about it. I never meant to put you or my sister in harm's way." Ed looked like he wanted to cry, but the gangster side of him wouldn't allow it.

EJ looked over at him and said, "Man no matter what, we are in this shit together. We ride together, we die together."

"I got this all worked out though. Me and Gene are going to do a lick on Black Friday so I can get the money that I owe Peedi."

"Do you need me to roll with you?" EJ asked not even thinking about the prior arrangement that he had already made with Chan. His only concern was helping his best friend out and everything else could wait.

"No dawg. This is an easy lick. We will be in and out within minutes. You just take care of whatever it is you have to do."

EJ wanted to tell Ed all about his plans for that night, but he really didn't know what was going on at the meeting his damn self. What he did know was that he wasn't doing anything without his best friend in on it. He decided to go on with his plans and both of them were going to have a long talk afterwards.

"Okay, but remember I'm just a phone call away if you need me," EJ said as Ed pulled up to the airport where EJ worked. "I'll hit you up when I get off. I'll catch a ride home with my cousin so that way you won't have to come back up here. I'm going to come to your mom's crib tomorrow and check on you."

EJ jumped out of the car and headed in the airport to work. He didn't even look back at his friend. Truth be told, he hated the fact that Ed had gotten himself into this predicament, but he was damn sure going to have his back.

He knew that Ed was quick to pop a nigga if he had to, but he was still worried about him. He just had to get through these next few days because he was anxious to find out what Chan and his people had in store for him. He could see the dollar signs as he headed up the escalator to work.

" _EJ I hope you know what you 're about to get yourself into. There's no turning back come Friday night,_" he said to himself as he entered _Auntie Anne_ ' _s_ to begin his shift.

What he didn't know, was once he went to that meeting, it would change his, and everybody associated with him, lives forever.

**Chapter 4**

**Friday Night**

It was 9:30 p.m. and EJ only had an hour and a half before he had the meeting that he hoped would change his life. He dressed in an _Armani_ suit, compliments of Denver boosting it from down South Street earlier.

When his cell phone rang, he checked the name on the screen and saw that it was Chan. "Yo Chan, what's up my nigga?" EJ said while putting on his other shoe. "I was just about to head out the door and go to the club."

"Well I'm glad that I caught you," Chan said, clearly happy. "It's been a change of plans. She wants you to meet her at her crib in Upper Darby. I will be taking care of some other stuff with my cousin, but we will meet you there by 11:00 p.m. Do you have a way to get there or do you need me to come scoop you up before we head that way?"

"Naw; I can use my aunt's car because she went to bingo with some of her friends. What's the address?" EJ asked while throwing on his jacket and heading for the door.

After Chan gave him the address, EJ jumped in the car and left. He checked the time and saw that he still had an hour to get there. He decided to stop over at Lex Pizza on 45th and Lancaster Avenue to grab something to eat on his way. What he was wondering while he drove down Lancaster Avenue was, _why did they change the meeting spot and most importantly why is it at her house?_

He was hoping that everything went according to plan because if it didn't, and something happened to him, all hell was going to break loose. He texted his best friend the address in which he was headed, and told him that once he left, he would text him again.

For someone that didn't know them, it would have looked like a regular text message, but in all actuality, it was an unspoken code letting his friend know that " _If you don 't hear from me, blow this address up with everything in it._"

EJ grabbed his food, and made his way to Upper Darby so that he could get this meeting over with and maybe still catch the club scene before the night was over.

**Meanwhile in Southwest Philly**

Ed was playing _NBA Live_ in his bedroom. He had just gotten the text from EJ and was wondering who he was going to see in Upper Darby. Just as he was about to win the game, his phone rang, pulling his attention from the T.V. and causing him to mess up. It was Gene so he knew it was time to get this money.

"Yo, what's up?" Ed said putting his controller down to listen.

"Yeah baby boy, it's time to go to work. I'm sitting outside your crib in a Chevy Lumina mini-van."

"I'm not even gonna ask you where you got that from," Ed said shaking his head. "I'll be out there in a minute."

Ed grabbed his jacket, then felt under his pillow, grabbed his 40 caliber, and tucked it in his shoulder holster that he always wore. He then grabbed his Dutch and weed and left the house before his mom or sister stopped to ask him a question.

Ed jumped in the van, shook Gene's hand, and asked, "What mall are we going to hit up?"

"We're going to Springfield Mall since we're so close. There's a lot of rich white people up there, plus we will be close to the garage," Gene said as they pulled off to handle their business.

"Spark this up while I put on this _Mobb Deep_ shit," Ed said as he passed Gene the filled blunt.

"That's what the fuck I'm talking about! We will definitely be on our shit by the time we get there. Don't roll the other one up until we are on our way back home and counting all that money we are about to make," Gene said as they hit the highway in route to the mall.

Thirty minutes later, they pulled up to Springfield Mall. They rode around the parking lot looking at the expensive cars. There were so many to choose from, but they wanted to get two of the most expensive ones and then come right back and grab two more. All together, they had to get four cars and in return, they would receive ten thousand dollars (five thousand a piece) for all four cars from YG, who ran a chop shop right off of 676 in Media Philadelphia.

Once they took the first two cars, one of YG's workers would give them a ride back to the mall where they would grab the other two. As long as everything went as planned, then they would be in-and-out in no time.

"Yo, look at that all black Jaguar right there and look what's next to it," Gene said as he turned down the music.

"That's the new 425i BMW and the rims on it are fucking crazy," Ed said, anxiously looking at the two cars.

"Okay now let's find two more and we'll get them first and come back for those two."

"Let's get them now because by the time we come back they may not be here and they are definitely worth 10G's by themselves," Ed said wanting to jump out of the van.

"Alright nigga, let's park this shit and get this money. Start wiping everything down that we touched so when the cops find this van, they won't be able to I.D. us," Gene said, while looking for a parking space.

After they finished wiping down the stolen van and taking anything out of it that belonged to them, they went to retrieve their meal tickets (the cars) for the night. With the mall being so crowded and the security being so tight, it looked like they wouldn't be able to complete it.

Just when they thought it was going to be a no go, an opportunity presented itself. There was commotion coming from inside the mall and security and the police rushed inside to take care of it.

"Let's go handle our business before it gets crazy out here," Gene said running toward the cars.

Ed ran behind his man and when they got to the cars, they each pulled out their jimmies and quickly opened the doors. Both of the cars had alarm systems that immediately went off. The two guys wasted no time deactivating the alarms and started the cars up. Once they both had their cars started, they hurried out of the parking lot to get to the shop undetected.

Twenty minutes later, they pulled up to an electric fence with a call button. Gene pushed the button and a few seconds later, the gate opened. The garage was in the back of an industrial warehouse, that one would only find if they knew it was there. That's how discreet YG was about his operation, as only a select few knew about it.

Ed followed Gene through the gate and headed for the opening garage door. As they rode pass, Ed couldn't help but admire all of the luxury cars that were parked in a line as if it was a car show. " _Damn, I got to get me one of those,_ " he said to himself entering the garage and the doors shut.

Gene stepped out of his car first followed by Ed. Two men armed with machine guns approached the two, but didn't say a word. The back door opened up and YG and a skinny white guy walked out talking, ignoring Gene, Ed, and the two armed men.

"So I guess our business here is done then. It was nice meeting you and hopefully we will do some more business in the future," YG said to the white man as they shook hands.

The white man smiled and said, "There is no other person that I would rather do business with. Just make sure that my shipment arrives on time and we will be talking again in about a month or so."

The white guy then jumped in the backseat of his limo and the driver pulled off as the garage door started to open again. YG looked over at Gene and Ed and asked, "So what have you brought me this time?"

"These are two of the latest models that just came out. I don't think we will be able to snatch anything else tonight because it's too much security around. I'll try to go back out on the weekend," Gene said pointing to the cars.

YG walked over and inspected the cars as if he was a customer at a dealership. After a few minutes, he looked up and said, "I'll give you 6G's for both of them. That's three thousand a piece and not a penny more. Usually you would bring me four in one night, but since it's only two, this is a good deal."

Gene thought about it for a minute and realized that he was actually coming up an extra stack. He would get ten for four, but he was getting six for two because of the models he brought in. He looked over at Ed who nodded his head in agreement and then he looked at YG and said, "Deal."

They each walked out of there three thousand dollars richer. YG offered to give them a ride, but they wanted to take a cab home. They didn't feel like being bothered with his men after they acted as if they wanted to splatter their brains all over the place earlier. That was the first time since Gene had been dealing with YG that his men had pulled their guns out on him, but it likely wouldn't be the last.

**Chapter 5**

EJ arrived at the address that Chan had given him around 10:50. The meeting was scheduled to take place at 11:00 so he was a little early. As he pulled up to the address, he said to himself, "I can definitely see myself in a crib like this real soon."

He looked up at the immaculate mini mansion and couldn't believe his eyes. When he got to the door and rang the bell, a white man in a black suit opened the door.

"I'm here to see Maria," EJ said, glimpsing at the inside of the house.

"Name please," the white man said, while trying to block his entrance.

"My name is EJ and I'm a friend of Chan's. I was told to meet him here for a meeting at 11:00," he said while getting a little irritated.

The butler invited him in while he went to find his boss. When he came back, he escorted EJ to the back of the house where Maria's office was. "Knock before you enter," the butler said as he turned around and went back to the front of the house to finish doing his job.

"Knock! Knock! Knock!"

"Come in," a voice said from the other side of the door. EJ entered the office and saw a very attractive Spanish looking woman sitting behind a mammoth oak desk with a bunch of pictures on it.

"EJ it's finally good to meet you," Maria said as she slowly stood and walked from behind the desk. Once Maria was in EJ's full view, he studied her from head to toe. His eyes immediately locked when they saw her fat ass. The tight black spandex she wore didn't help the situation at all.

"I'm glad you could make it on such short notice," Maria said picking up a bottle of Hennessy from her desk and pouring herself a drink. "Would you like anything to drink?"

EJ shook his head no and said, "If there is money to be made then I'm all for it. I'm tired of only making enough money to get by week to week."

"Well stick with me and you won't have to worry about that ever again," she said walking back behind her desk and taking a seat.

"Okay, let's get straight down to business then," Maria said as she saw Chan and his cousin walk in. They shook EJ's hand and gave Maria a hug before pulling up a couple of chairs next to EJ, facing Maria.

"Basically I brought you here because I know we can help each other," she said, getting straight to the point.

"How you figure," EJ questioned getting up to take his _Armani_ jacket off and placing it on the back of his chair before sitting back down.

"Simple. I want you to assist Chan in running an operation that I'm trying to set up. You will never have to worry about money again if you do this right and stick to the script," Maria said taking a sip of her drink.

"Damn! You are the answer to all of my problems," EJ chuckled. "I just have one request though. If you bring me in, then you have to bring in my best friend and partner. I don't do anything without him," EJ said with a serious look on his face.

Maria looked at Chan and his cousin Wan and they both nodded their heads yes. "So what is your friend's name?" Maria asked sipping her drink.

"His name is Ed and I trust him with my life so you don't have to worry about any backlash from his decisions."

"Good then. He will be your responsibility, not mine," Maria said as she stood and started towards the door. "Follow me guys."

They all stood up and followed Maria down the hall to another room. The whole time EJ's eyes were glued to Maria's ass as it jiggled with every step she took.

When they arrived at the room and walked in, it looked like a C.I.A. headquarters. You would have thought she owned a computer store with all the equipment in there. Everything was state of the art. You could make anything you wanted in there from I.D.s to your own T.V. show. EJ's head was spinning from being so excited.

"I'm glad you like what you see," Maria said turning to EJ, Chan, and Wan. "Get used to this place because you will be spending a lot of time in here preparing for the next phase of this operation."

She showed them around the room and when they were done she said, "Now let me explain to you what needs to be done."

"Have you ever read about or seen on the news anything about the banks losing a lot of money to people filing bogus insurance claims? Well what we are about to venture into is ten times better than that," she said as they all sat around a computer screen as she booted up the computer.

"I have over one hundred account numbers here that I downloaded from my computer at work. The date that we have here will help us set up one of the biggest bank scams in history," she said as she typed on the computer to print a list of the account numbers for everybody to glance over.

They looked over the papers that Maria had printed when she began to talk again. "All of you are very young and if y'all stick with me, you will be three rich young men."

"Uh don't you mean four rich young men," EJ said smirking at Maria.

"Yes. How could I forget about your partner? We all are partners now so get used to having five people around," she said while sitting on the edge of the desk. "When will I be able to meet your friend?"

"I can have him here first thing in the morning if you like," EJ said, while staring at Maria's pussy lips poking through the spandex tights. He had to turn his head to avoid being caught lusting after the older woman.

What he didn't know was that Maria was only twenty-two years old. She graduated from Germantown High School at the top of her class. She went to Temple College for three years and received a Bachelor's degree majoring in Computer Programming and minoring in Business Management. She began working at TD Bank a year ago and was already the manager of the branch.

She was focused on becoming the first young Spanish District Manager. Her goals were set until she stumbled onto a scheme that could help her move up even faster. She just needed someone who could design the checks and someone who was intelligent enough to create an enterprise worth taking that risk.

That's where Chan, EJ, and Wan came into play. Even though she didn't know much about Ed, she could tell by the way EJ spoke of him that he would be a reliable worker.

"That won't be necessary because I won't be up early in the morning," Maria said, taking another sip of her Hennessey. "I would like to fill y'all in on the whole operation, but I want everybody here at the same time."

"At least tell us what we will be doing," EJ said, waiting for a response.

Maria stood and began breaking it down for them. "Well first we will be printing up some checks and changing the last number of the account. We cannot go pass ten thousand dollars or the FEDs will be on to us. In time when we can establish a solid pattern, we may be able to go pass that point. What we need to find out is how much can we deposit at one time. I will work on that part even though I think I already know the answer to it," she said as she looked around the room, making sure everyone was with her.

"We will need some people to actually go into the bank and cash some checks. I will make sure that goes smoothly because I will be the one who will authorize the transaction. Are y'all with me so far?"

Everyone nodded yes and continued to listen as she explained what needed to be done with the rest of the plan.

"I will leave the recruiting up to y'all. I will never be seen when y'all are dealing with these people. Only the four of you will ever know about me. To everyone else, this is y'all operation. Are we clear on this?" Maria said with her face now serious.

"I'm going to stop here until we meet up here tomorrow at 5:00 p.m. Do not be late and be prepared to be here for a while. I know you want to go over to the club and enjoy yourself before it closes EJ so I will let you go. I already kept you here too long," Maria said looking at her watch and seeing that it was 1:00 a.m.

"I think I might pass on that tonight. I have to go catch up with Ed and make sure he is straight and focus on tomorrow," EJ said as he gave Maria a hug along with Chan and Wan. Maria walked them to the door and watched as they got into their cars and pulled away.

She was thinking to herself, " _I hope I 'm making the right decision about these guys._" She closed the door and went upstairs to her master bedroom suite to take a hot shower. Tomorrow was going to be a long day and she wanted to be well rested. It will be the beginning of a new partnership with a couple of hungry lions. She had a feeling that EJ would be the one to watch. He seemed calm and cool, but he also seemed like he could be the most dangerous one out of them all. In fact, she thought he was going to be the one who took this whole operation to a whole new level. She was sure going to find out.

**Chapter 6**

EJ arrived at Ed's crib at 2:00 a.m. He talked to him and told him that he was coming over. Ed told him that he would be in late because he had to drop the money off to Peedi. When he pulled up to the house, he didn't see Ed's car so he called Erica's phone.

RING! RING! RING!

"Hello," she said in a groggy voice waking up out of her sleep. Usually she would still be in the streets at this time.

"Sorry I woke you up big head, but are you in the house?" EJ said as he sat in the car finishing his _Dunkin Donuts_ bagel.

"Yeah boy and what do you want at 2 in the morning," she said, checking the time on her phone.

"I'm outside. Come open the door for me. I have to wait for Ed and you know he probably won't be here for a couple of hours. Plus I don't feel like driving home tonight anyway," he said as he got out of the car.

"Okay. Here I come," Erica said, jumping out of the bed, heading down the stairs to let in EJ.

When she opened the door, she turned to go back to bed. EJ's eyes were glued to her ass. She was wearing a pair of booty shorts and a tank top. He never really looked at her like that, but ever since he had seen her bare pussy that day in the car and whispered in his ear, he wanted to hit that in the worst way.

"Where you going, big head? You have to stay up and keep me company for a while."

"Boy I'm going back to bed. You better come upstairs and watch T.V. in my room. You know the T.V. down here don't work," she said as she went back up the stairs.

Usually he would go in Ed's room and wait, but Ed had begun locking his door because Erica and his mom had been going in his room when he wasn't home, taking his stuff. He followed Erica up to her room so he could watch T.V.

Erica laid on the bed and pulled the covers over her while EJ sat at the end of the bed and grabbed the remote. When he turned on the T.V., _Monster Ball_ with Halle Berry was on the channel.

"This is one of my favorite movies," he said, getting comfortable by kicking his shoes off and lying at the bottom of the bed.

"You just want to see her fuck Bob Thornton with your nasty ass," Erica said kicking him in the back playfully.

"Keep your ugly feet to yourself," EJ said as he swatted her feet away and grabbed his soda from the floor.

Erica sucked her teeth. "Ugly?" she echoed. "Nigga please! Ain't nothing ugly on my body," she said in a tone that was matter of fact.

"I know ugly when I see it," EJ nodded and finished his soda off and throwing the bottle in the trash can on the side of the bed.

"That's your word?" Erica asked pulling the covers off of her and jumped out of the bed walking around to the front where EJ was now sitting.

"Is this ugly too," she asked while turning around and shaking her ass in his face. EJ cleared his throat as he sat and watched her ass bounce. Then she turned around and laughed while her nipples were fighting to escape the tank top.

"Can I help you," he asked as he looked at her titties and then down to her pussy poking out under her boy shorts.

"I don't know. Can you?" Erica said as one of her eyebrows rose. Not being the type to back down from a challenge, EJ grabbed Erica and buried his face in her titties. Then he lifted her tank top over her head and took his time sucking on each one of her nipples.

"Damnnnn," Erica moaned and cursed as he grabbed his head and begged him not to stop. Two minutes later EJ picked her up and laid her on the bed. He then pulled off her boy shorts exposing her cleanly shaved pussy. She was already so wet that her juices were flowing out of her and dripping down her legs. EJ bent down and sucked on her clit, massaging it, and then he began eating away while fingering her at the same time. Erica couldn't take it any longer. He was forcing her to cum quicker than she anticipated. After that mind blowing orgasm, she had to save face.

"Stand your ass up," Erica demanded as she grabbed EJ's rock hard dick through his _Armani_ pants. She unbuttoned and unzipped his pants and slid them down along with his boxers. He stepped out of them and took his shirt off.

Erica grabbed his dick with two hands and licked, sucked, and tongue kissed it. She made sure she slurped all of the saliva off of his dick before opening her mouth as wide as she could. She was only able to take in half of his dick before letting it slide back out of her mouth making a loud slurping sound. For the next five minutes, Erica sucked the shit out of EJ's dick. The whole time making loud noises until he finally exploded in her mouth. Without a second thought, she swallowed the mouthful of cum like a soldier.

"I see I still hold the dick sucking title," she said as she wiped her mouth with the back of her hand.

"I'm not finished with you," EJ said still hard. He wanted some of that pussy now. He grabbed Erica and laid her on the bed. Then he put her legs on his shoulders and entered her warm slippery walls.

"Oh shit Daddy! Tear that shit up!" Erica yelled as EJ pounded away at her pussy. Two minutes later, she was cumming again.

He turned her over, pulling her ass up in the air and entered her from behind. Her ass was bouncing up and down as he pumped every inch of his manhood into her.

"I can't take it no more! You are killing me!" Erica said trying to run from him, but he had a tight grip on her waist.

"Shut up! This is what you wanted so now I'm giving it to you," EJ said as sweat ran down his body and over Erica's ass cheeks.

Ten minutes later EJ couldn't hold it any longer so he pulled out and exploded all over her ass and back. They both laid on the bed for a couple of minutes before Erica got up and went to the bathroom. She came back out and brought EJ a warm soapy rag to wash up. Afterwards he dressed while Erica got back in the bed naked and laid under the covers.

"So what are we going to do about what just happened?" Erica questioned, watching EJ fix his clothes.

"I don't know, but we both know that we crossed the line and we can't do that anymore," EJ said looking at her. "Ed is my best friend I don't want that to change so let's just keep it at that. What happened here stays here!"

"Okay I can do that, but I will want some more of that Mandingo dick one day and you will give it to me," she said with a smile on her face.

EJ smirked and shook his head while getting up and heading downstairs to wait for Ed. He fell asleep on the couch waiting for his friend to get home. He knew he had crossed the line with Erica, but it was a line he didn't mind crossing. He didn't know if he would do it again.

* * *

"Well I got the money that I owe you so now you can call the dogs off," Ed said as he sat across from Peedi at the I-Hop on Chestnut Street. It was 2:45 a.m. and Peedi had just left Club Transit when he received a call from Ed asking him to meet him there.

"You should have had my money and that shit wouldn't have never happened. Next time you'll come correct or don't come at all," Peedi said shoving a fork full of the blueberry pancakes in his mouth that he had ordered.

Peedi was real cocky, but Ed was trying to stay calm. Peedi only acted like that because he had three niggas with him that were packing submachine guns. Little did Peedi know, one day soon, Ed would try to get him for attempting to hit him and his family.

"Well I guess our business here is done," Ed said getting up from the table to leave.

"Our business is never over. In fact, I put something in your car for you. Just bring me the same thing back as before," Peedi said, continuing to eat his food, never looking up at Ed.

"I don't think you heard me correct," Ed said sitting back down at the table. "I'm done with that shit and our business relationship is over. I have something different lined up so you can take whatever it is you put in my car out and I will be leaving."

One of Peedi's men stood behind Ed. He noticed alertly, but he didn't make a move because he was outnumbered.

"I know you got yourself a new connect out in Jersey and I respect that, but we had a formal agreement and I know you are not going to break that. Are you?"

"My other connect has nothing to do with you and our agreement was never an agreement. Now unless you are willing to start something in front of all these people, I'll be leaving and I will sit your merchandise on the ground for one of your toy soldiers to pick up on your way out," Ed said, getting up and headed for the door without looking back at the two goons following him. He had already unsnapped the 40 Caliber out of his shoulder holster and discreetly put it in his jacket pocket.

When he got outside, he headed for his car taking quick steps. The two goons also picked up their pace. When he reached the part of the parking lot where his car was, he took out his car keys with his left hand while he slipped his 40 Caliber out of his jacket with his right.

The two goons both reached inside their jackets for their weapons, but it was too late. Ed spun around in one quick motion and fired off four shots hitting both of his targets in the chest.

All one could hear was BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! Then all the people in the parking lot began yelling and running. The two goons were dead before they hit the ground.

Ed jumped in his car, pulled out of the parking lot, and quickly drove around the corner. He knew with what had just happened; things with Peedi would never be over until he was dealt with.

"Let's get out of here," Peedi said as he and one of his goons rushed out the door. They ran to Peedi's Range Rover and jumped inside, but before they could even pull away, Ed was standing on the driver's side of the truck.

BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! That was all that was heard as the driver's head exploded and chest was ripped open.

Ed then walked over and opened up the passenger door. "What do you want man? If it's money, I have a couple thousand right here. Take it and I will not try to retaliate," Peedi said taking the money out of his pocket passing it to Ed in a plea for his life.

Ed took the money and said, "It wasn't about the money. If I had left, you would have had a contract out on me by the morning. So I guess I can sleep well tonight while you sleep good forever," he said while putting two bullets right between Peedi's eyes. BOOM! BOOM!

Ed rushed back to his car and took off before the cops showed. He reached into his back seat and pulled out the bag. When he looked in the bag, a large eighth of raw was inside, and now he had it all to himself. He smiled as he headed home.

**Chapter 7**

When EJ woke up the next morning, he could smell the aroma of bacon and eggs being cooked. His stomach growled from the smell, and sat up, put on his shoes, and walked to the kitchen.

"Good morning sleepy head. What time did you come here last night?" Ed's mom, Ms. Cynthia, asked.

Ms. Cynthia was a beautiful woman and at the age of thirty-five, she still looked like she was twenty-one. She had brown skin with long black natural hair. She was 5'7" with a flat stomach that looked like she never had two kids. Her ass was a perfect bubble. I guess you could tell where Erica got her body from because she was flawless from head to toe.

"I came in this morning at like three looking for Ed. Did he come in yet?" EJ asked while looking in the refrigerator for something to drink.

"Yeah, that fool is upstairs sleep. Go get him and Erica and tell them to come eat because I'm about to leave for work," Ms. Cynthia said as she grabbed her uniform jacket. "You can stay and eat before you leave. It's plenty for all three of y'all. I will see you later," she said as EJ gave her a hug and kiss on her cheek.

Ms. Cynthia worked at Philadelphia Parking Authority (PPA) where EJ's mom previously worked before she died. She was the shift supervisor so all she did was drive around, checking on her workers.

"Alright, you be careful out there," EJ said as he ran upstairs to get Ed up. They had a lot of shit to talk about before they went to the meeting at five.

When EJ got to Ed's room, he was already awake and hiding something under his mattress. "What's up nigga? I've been waiting for you all night. Where the fuck was you at; fucking one of your little ho's," EJ said sitting on the chair in Ed's room.

"Naw, I had some problems last night when I met up with Peedi," Ed said, looking incredibly nervous.

"What happened and why didn't you call me? You know I would have been there ASAP!" EJ said, watching his friend pacing back and forth.

"It's a long story and we will talk about that later. Right now, I want to know what's up with you. In your text, you said you have some big plans for us. I'm all ears my nigga so start talking," Ed said sitting on his bed ready to spark a Dutch that he had rolled a few minutes ago.

EJ got up and walked towards the door. "We'll talk at my house. I have to get Aunt Cat her car back so come on and follow me to the crib."

"Alright go ahead. I'll meet you there in a half hour. I'm going to freshen up a little," Ed said heading for the bathroom.

"Don't be late nigga. This is some serious business," EJ said leaving to return his aunt's car.

* * *

When Ed arrived at EJ's house, they sat down and talked for over two hours. First EJ explained everything to Ed that Maria had told him about the operation. Then Ed told him about what happened the previous night at the I-Hop.

"So did anyone see you roll out? Cause if they did, you have to get rid of your ride," EJ said concerned for his friend.

"No, I was out of there before the cops even came, but I like this scam that y'all are planning and you can count me in," Ed said, as he fixed himself a drink at the bar.

"Okay, we have about four hours before our meeting so I might as well kick your ass in some Madden," EJ said, setting up the game. "And don't forget to get rid of that burner also."

"Yeah, I'll take care of it tonight after the meeting," Ed said as he sat next to his friend to Madden.

* * *

At 5:00 p.m., everybody was sitting around the table at Maria's house; Chan, Wan, EJ, Ed, and Maria. Maria looked like a gangster with her army fatigue pants on and a white wife beater. She had on a pair of black Timberland boots and her hair was tied in a neat bun on top of her head. Everyone was sipping on a glass of Remy except for EJ who was drinking Pepsi. They were all waiting patiently for Maria to begin the meeting.

"Well now that we are all here, let our first official meeting begin," Maria said as she sat her drink down and stood up. "First and foremost it's nice to finally meet you Ed. I've heard a lot about you."

Ed looked at EJ and then at Maria. "I hope it wasn't all bad," he said with a grin.

"No, it was nothing but good things. Now let's get back to business," she said seriously. "As I was saying the other day, we are going to take this city and every other city by storm. I have over one hundred account numbers to start with. We are going to print off a few as a test run and see how authentic they look. What we will need is someone who is not scared to walk up in the bank and try to cash it," Maria said looking around the room.

"I'll do it," EJ said volunteering for the task. "I think we should try it at another bank instead of yours first. If anything goes wrong, it won't set off any red flags there and then we can still come back to your bank and do it there as planned," he said waiting for Maria's response.

"That's why you are the brains of this operation," Maria said in agreement, to what EJ had said. "Are you sure that you are comfortable with going in there like that? What if something goes wrong?"

"That's just it. If something goes wrong or even looks like it's about to go wrong then I will walk away and get out of there as fast as possible," EJ said, taking a sip of his soda.

"Alright then, let's get this thing started gentlemen. Let's get to the computer lab," Maria said as she headed out of her office with everyone following behind her.

* * *

Everyone was seated at a computer monitor as Maria booted up the system. Once it was up and running, she punched in the banks access code and over one hundred, customers' account information popped up.

"How did you transfer everything to this computer?" Ed asked in amazement.

"I used a flash drive and if you are not familiar with that, I'll show you at another time," Maria said as she walked over to one of the pictures and removed it from the wall and showing the safe behind it. She hit the pad with the combination numbers and it popped open. She took out a pack of paper and brought it over so that everyone could see it. "This is called watermark check paper. Without this, you cannot make a check. Regular paper will get you locked up before you can even collect the money," Maria said with a serious face.

"EJ and Chan will be in charge of creating the checks. They will then pass them off to Wan and Ed so that y'all can distribute them to the squad that each of you will hire. I wouldn't get any more than six people to start off with at first."

"I was thinking of only four outsiders and Wan and Ed," EJ said to Maria. "That way it will only be four people that are not in our immediate circle. Once we gain their trust then we can expand and make this into an empire. Does everyone agree with that?" he said watching everyone nod their heads.

"While Chan and I design the checks, I want the rest of y'all to be going through the phone books and picking bank branches outside of the city. We will never cash a check in Philly unless it is at Maria's bank and she is there to approve it," EJ said as if he was the boss.

In his mind, this was going to be his organization. He felt as though he knew how to operate it better than Maria did. Maria was teaching him too much too fast and it wouldn't be long before he wouldn't didn't need her help any longer.

**Chapter 8**

Around 9:00 p.m., EJ and Chan had designed four different types of payroll checks. They used PECO Energy, Jack's Catering, Septa Transportation, and The Eagles Organization. In total, they had over $5,500.00 worth of checks as a test run. If everything ran smoothly then they would up the amount and begin making major doe.

Wan and Ed had located twelve different banks to choose from outside of the city. They had two locations in Upper Darby, three in Lower Merion, three in Chester, and four in New Jersey. Now the only thing was they had to wait until Monday to pull this off. They had already planned on leaving school early so that they could hit the banks before they closed.

EJ decided that he was going to test the waters by attempting to cash the Eagles payroll check. "On every check it has a phone number just in case the bank tries to call the company. The numbers are linked to Maria's pre-paid cell phone. She already knows what to do if she gets a call from them. Chan will explain this a little more," EJ said as he looked at Chan.

"I've made each check with an encrypted sequence of numbers. They match the real account numbers to the tee. The only difference is the last number. Once they enter the real routing number and account number, it will come up as if it's correct. Once they cash the check, the original account numbers will be placed back into the banks computer as if it never changed. I will be here making sure that it all goes well. If I have any problems, I will text "abort," and that means don't go in or leave ASAP," Chan said making sure everyone knew the severity of what he was saying.

"EJ is going to be the first one to test this so that means everyone else will be on standby. If it's a go, he will text everybody else to proceed. You will be in groups of two. One person will go in and cash the check while the other person will be the look out. Any sign of danger what so ever, get out of there immediately! Even if you have to leave your ID and the check. We will worry about that later," Chan said as he showed everyone the printed work.

Maria was amazed at how authentic the checks looked. Chan and EJ had really created a masterpiece. "EJ and Ed will go together on this one and Chan and Wan will be on standby. Chan will show me what to do here on the computer and I will access the numbers. Are we all clear on this," Maria said as they all nodded in agreement.

"Okay, this meeting is adjourned until Monday. Enjoy the rest of your weekend and we will meet back up at 12:30. That should give all of you plenty of time to go to school, get all of your work, and leave early. Take care and be safe," Maria said as she walked everybody to the door.

"See you guys later and try to stay out of trouble," Maria said as she shut the door behind them.

"Let's go out to the club and celebrate," EJ said to Ed and Chan as they were about to get in the car.

"Well, Wan and I have to take our girls out tonight. We promised them that we would after the meeting. Maybe next time though," Chan said shaking EJ and Ed's hands before getting in the car and pulling off.

"Well I guess it's just us tonight my nigga," Ed said, getting in the car and unlocking the door for EJ.

EJ shut the door and leaned back in the seat. "Yeah so let's go party and have some fun. Let's go to the "Set It Off" over on 2nd and Cambria and see some bitches shaking their ass," he said putting on his favorite rapper Jay Z's, The Dynasty Album.

"That's what the fuck I'm talking about," Ed said as he pulled off, heading for the strip club. EJ and Ed had not enjoyed themselves all week so now it was time to unwind.

* * *

On Monday, everyone was in school as planned. They attended all of their classes except the last one. Ed was the only one who had eight periods. Everyone else had six. That's why at 12:00 they would have only had computer class left and Ed would have had three other classes. In all actuality, Ed was going to cut those classes anyway because he didn't want to miss out on this golden opportunity. He already had three grand in cash that he didn't tell anybody about and he also had work that he was going to have a couple of young boys to knock off for him.

He felt like this would be his side hustle and wasn't going to let anything stop him from making money. He wasn't going to use his Jersey connect until he was almost done with the free work he had taken from Peedi after he murked him and his goons a couple of days ago.

The streets were talking, but they didn't know who did it. At this point, Ed felt as though he had gotten away with it so he was going to live it up. His only regret was that he should have made Peedi take him to his stash house. That way he would have really came up. It was all good though. He would make what he had work.

EJ was walking from the lunch room to meet up with everybody when he saw Yahnise and her gold digging friends standing at their lockers talking. Yahnise was rocking the shit out of her white tennis skirt and pink _Polo_ shirt. She had on a pair of pink and white _Air Maxes_ and her hair was bone straight hanging down her back.

She looked so good that EJ stood at his locker and stared at her for a while. Her friends were dressed to impress as well. Sonja had on a pair of tights that really made her ass stick out and her other friend Meena was rocking some tight ass _Apple Bottom_ jeans with a tight shirt that made her big ass titties stick out. You could honestly say that they were the dream team when it came to the baddest girls in school. EJ only cared about Yahnise though. He wanted her in the worst way and he was determined that one day she would be his.

EJ snapped out of his daydream when Ed hit him on his shoulder. "Yo, you ready to bounce? We have to meet Chan and Wan outside in about ten minutes," Ed said, watching his friend gaze at Yahnise and her girls.

EJ turned and looked at Ed, "Yeah I'm ready. Let's do this." They both walked down the hall.

"Don't worry, once we get our money up those hoes will be dick eating us for real," Ed said to EJ.

"Yo, don't call her a hoe man," EJ said getting mad at Ed for calling Yahnise out of her name. "She just about her money and it ain't anything wrong with that. We don't even know if she is giving any of those niggas some pussy. She is probably just getting what she wants from them," he said, taking one last glance at her.

Ed remained silent while listening to his friend talk out of the side of his neck. He knew how EJ felt about that girl and he hoped that one day his friend would get her.

* * *

They pulled up at Maria's crib at 12:25 p.m. ready to get the job done. EJ didn't have any dress clothes so he sported the same _Armani_ suit again. He wanted to appear as if he was getting money and had a real job.

Maria had called him yesterday and decided that she would let him use her Lexus to go to the bank. She figured that if they saw him pull up in an expensive car that they wouldn't think twice about him cashing a $2,700.00 check.

Once everybody was at the round table, Maria went over the plan again. She wanted to make sure everybody was on point and ready for action.

"Okay gentleman, let's go get this money. EJ and Ed, y'all will go to the PNC Bank on Garrett Road. Chan and Wan you two will go to the TD Bank on State Road," Maria said making sure that they all understood. "I will be here with the information just in case they call."

Everyone got up and left the house to handle their business. Maria said a silent prayer hoping that everything went according to plan. This would set off what would be the beginning of their get-rich scheme.

* * *

EJ and Ed arrived at PNC Bank on Garrett Road at 1:30 p.m. From looking at the cars in the parking lot, the bank didn't seem that crowded. "Okay dawg, this is the moment of truth. I will hopefully be in and out of here fast. If anything looks crazy out here, text me ASAP; okay?" EJ said, looking at Ed with his face as serious as ever.

"I got you on speed dial so don't worry about nothing. Just go handle your business so we can start making some real money," Ed said, giving EJ a pound.

EJ stepped out of the car and fixed his suit jacket as he walked up to the doors of the bank. He would be lying if he said he wasn't nervous. When he walked in, it was only one person ahead of him. He walked over and stood in line waiting to be called.

The "NEXT" light sign flashed on and EJ walked up to the teller. "Good afternoon sir. How can I help you?" the teller asked in a friendly manner. She was a white girl around the age of twenty-five or twenty-eight years old. She looked very nice so EJ's nervousness subsided slightly.

"Yes, I'm here to cash my paycheck," EJ said in a professional manner while looking at the teller.

Then he took the check out of the envelope and grabbed a pen to endorse it. After EJ signed the check, he passed it to the teller, stood there, and watched her closely. She looked at the check, then up at him with a smile and said, "Can I have your ID please, Mr. Johnson?"

"Oh yeah, sorry about that," EJ said pulling out his ID and handing it to the teller. "It's been a long day at the office and I still have a lot to do," EJ said smiling at her. She smiled back and started punching in some numbers into her computer. EJ waited patiently wondering what she was doing.

The teller looked up from her computer screen and said, "Mr. Johnson please give me a few minutes to verify this check. I will be right back and I won't be long." Then she got up and walked to the back to the manager's officer.

EJ felt like he was about to have a nervous breakdown. He was thinking about running out of there. After about five minutes, the teller came back out with a smile on her face. EJ relaxed a little when she handed him back his ID and said, "Sorry it took me so long Mr. Johnson. When we receive a check over $1,500.00, we have to verify it."

EJ took a mental note of that so he would remember that whenever they cashed a check, they shouldn't exceed that amount.

"How would you like your money sir? Do you want big or small bills?" she asked opening her cash drawer.

"All large bills please," EJ said with a smile. " _Everything seems to be working out fine, but I can 't wait to get out of here_," he said to himself." The teller placed the money in an envelope and passed it to him. "Have a nice day and please come again," she said as she waited for the next customer.

EJ left there with a big smile on his face. He jumped in the car and started it up before looking at Ed. "We did it baby boy. Send the text to Chan and Wan to let them know that it's a go," he said, holding up the envelope full of money.

Ed gave EJ a pound and made the text to Chan. "That's all it is my nigga! Let's get to the next bank and try another one," Ed said, as they pulled out of the bank parking lot, and headed for the next bank.

Chan and Wan also successfully completed their transaction. EJ and Ed were heading to the bank that Chan and Wan was leaving. Chan and Wan were on their way to the bank that EJ and Ed had just left. They switched so that they could stay in the same area and get back to Maria's crib around the same time.

* * *

Around 4:00, everyone had made it back to Maria's house without any problems. They had cashed all four checks and now they were sitting at the table counting their money. The total came up to $6,000.00 and they split it five ways which means they had $1,200.00 apiece.

That was a nice amount of money for EJ because he never had that much money at one time before. When he saw Ed with that kind of money, he was giving it to Peedi.

If EJ would have sold drugs with Ed, he would have a lot of money by now, but he didn't want to go that route. He thought he could do better and if this worked out as he was hoping it would then he would be doing better. The only problem now was trying to convince his friend to leave the drug game alone altogether. EJ wasn't a dummy. He knew that Ed was still selling drugs. He thought if he put him on to this, then he would quit. The bad part about that was that Ed did not intend to do any of that.

"Good job everybody. I'm glad to see that everything went according to plan and no one got into any trouble. This is just the beginning of what is yet to come," Maria said while they all sat around the table. "We are going to wait a couple of days and then we will hit up the banks again. This time we will do more so that our cut will increase. Once we all get to a nice figure, then we can expand a little."

"I think we should bring the four people in on this now. That way we could hit even more banks," EJ said as he looked around the table. "We don't have to split it in half with the people that we hire. They can get a percentage of whatever they cash. I have four people in mind if everybody agrees. We can add them in as soon as next week," EJ said waiting for a response.

"Don't you think it's too early to add people now? What if they can't handle the pressure and they get snatched up," Wan said, looking at EJ.

"Well we won't have to worry about the people that I have in mind folding under pressure. They do schemes on a regular basis, just not at this magnitude, but to respect your wishes I'll hold off for a few weeks before I bring them in. That way we can first make sure that the plan is fool proof. Is that cool with everybody?" EJ said as each person shook their head in agreement.

"Well now that, that's settled, let's go and enjoy some of this money. Don't spend it too fast," Maria said and then laughed because she knew that as fast as they spent it, they could make it right back.

**Chapter 9**

For the next couple of weeks, the team hit up over twelve different banks, cashing thirty checks. They never went over $1,500.00 because EJ remembered what the teller had said to him about verifying the money. In total, they had made $45,000.00 in two weeks. That was $9,000.00 apiece. EJ had stepped up his game by buying brand new clothes and throwing all of his old stuff away. He only purchased top of the line clothes, all courtesy of Denver. She boosted clothes, shoes, and sneakers for him and he paid her good. He even told her that he would have a job for her soon. She thought he was selling drugs because of all the money he had been spending with her, but he assured her that wasn't the case.

Someone else was starting to take notice of EJ's change in appearance too. Yahnise noticed that he had been dressing better in the last week. She wanted to know what he was doing, but she didn't say anything. When he came to class the last couple of days, he was wearing brand new everything. Her curiosity was getting the best of her. "I wonder what that dude is doing because he looks like new money now," she said to her friends.

"He is probably selling drugs or something," Meana said, as they watched EJ leave with Chan after computer class.

"What are you going to do for Christmas vacation?" EJ asked Chan as they walked outside.

"We have to come up with something that will get us some more money. We have hit all of these banks and we are still not making a lot of money," Chan said as they stood and talked by Chan's car.

"I do have something we could do to get paid a whole lot more money. It will require us to extend the amount of the checks. We can get a couple of people to deposit checks into their accounts, wait three days, and then withdraw the money out of their account. We can start doing this after the New Year's if you are willing to take that change," EJ said, waiting for Chan's response.

Chan thought about it and said, "We will talk about it in our next meeting with Maria. It sounds good, but you know there will be some risk with it." Chan was now looking at EJ with numbers flowing through his head.

"Don't worry because if we get the right people with accounts, it will go smoothly. We will just have to wait and find out," EJ said as he shook hands with Chan and headed over to his aunt's car. He hollered to Chan, "I will see you tomorrow so that we can hit these joints up."

"Later E," Chan said, as he jumped in his car and pulled off. EJ followed him out of the parking lot and went to the bank on 23rd and Snyder called Beneficial. He wanted to start a bank account to hold his money.

* * *

Meanwhile over in North Philly on 23rd and Diamond Street, Ed was sitting in his car talking to a young boy named Twan. "So how is business," he asked while puffing on a Dutch.

"I'm almost out of the pack you gave me so you can hit me with another one," Twan said waiting for Ed to pass him the Dutch.

Twan had been knocking off the stolen drugs that Ed had taken from Peedi. He had been working for Ed for a week now and he was really showing his loyalty. Ed wanted to lock North Philly down, but first he had to get more workers, so his only concern right now was Diamond Street.

"Well today is your lucky day young boy," Ed said as he grabbed the shopping bag from the back seat and passed it to Twan. "This is a ¼ of a key. How fast can you make this disappear?"

Twan's eyes lit up as he looked at the coke. "Man I'm on it right now. Holler at me in a couple of days and I'll have all of your money," he said getting out of the car so he could take care of business.

The quarter key that Ed gave Twan came from his Jersey connect. He had visited him earlier and he hit him off with the work on consignment. All he had to do now was wait for Twan to take care of that and he would hit him up again. Between the money that Ed made with his best friend and the money he was going to make from the coke, he was doing great.

EJ had already put a down payment on a new car. He wanted a 2007 _Buick Lacrosse_ that this mechanic named Tony on 58th and Woodland was selling. It was clean and it didn't have that many miles on it. He didn't want to pay him the money in full because he didn't want EJ to know he had all that money.

As he was pulling down Diamond Street, he saw this light skin girl with a fat ass walk into the Chinese store. He pulled up and parked the car. Then he hurriedly jumped out, and went into the store to see what was up with her. She caught him staring at her as she paid for her food and asked, "Do you have a problem staring at my ass?"

Ed looked at her and said, "As a matter of fact I do. I can't let someone who looks that fine pay for her own food." He pulled out a knot of money, peeled off a twenty dollar bill, and gave it to the cashier.

Her eyes lit up at the sight of his knot. "Well thank you baller," she said never taking her eyes off of his money.

"No problem Shorty. Where are you about to go right now?" he asked as the clerk gave him his change.

"I'm about to go in the house and relax, I guess. Why? What's up with you?" she said seductively.

"First off, what is your name and secondly, I would like to go with you if you can have some company. I don't want your man to beat me up for coming to your house," he said playfully.

She smiled and said, "My name is Tamera and I don't have a man. You can come keep me company for a while, but my mom will be home by 8:00 so you can only stay until 7:00."

Tamara started walking out the door and Ed looked down at his phone. It was only 4:30 so he said fuck it and followed her out the door. "Where do you live at?"

"On the next block so you can leave your car parked there if you want. There is never anywhere to park on my block," Tamera said as her and Ed walked to her crib.

* * *

When they entered the house, Tamara took off her shoes and told Ed to get comfortable while she changed her clothes. Ed watched as she switched upstairs, making her ass jiggle in her sweatpants.

"You can put some music on and I'll be down in ten minutes," she hollered from the top of the stairs.

Ed turned the radio on and Nelly's "Drop Down and Get Your Eagle On" was on the radio so he let it play. He looked around at all the pictures and noticed that all of the girls in the pictures with her were bad too. He thought to himself, " _They must be her sisters_." He continued to look at the other pictures when she came back downstairs wearing a skimpy robe that barely covered her ass.

"Do you want to smoke this Dutch with me?" Ed asked as he pulled it out of his jacket. He went over and sat on the couch and Tamara came and sat beside him.

"Yeah, spark that shit up," she said as she leaned back on the couch. From where Ed was sitting, he could see her lace panties and they looked like they were being swallowed up by her ass. He knew she must have been wearing a thong.

He had met this girl just about fifteen minutes ago and already he was about to get some pussy.

After they smoked the Dutch, she asked him if he wanted her to dance for him. Ed shook his head and Tamara put on stripper music and began coming out of her robe.

Ed didn't know it, but Tamara was a stripper at Bottom Up right off of Roosevelt Boulevard. When she saw all that money, she was thrilled to take Ed back to her crib. She thought if she performed for him, he would break her off.

She had on a red lace thong with a matching bra. Her titties were not too small, but they weren't big either. They were just right. She began dancing seductively and then got on top of Ed and began grinding on him. He grabbed her ass and squeezed it while she rode him.

After about five minutes of lap dancing, Ed wanted some pussy. He pulled her thong to the side and put his finger in her pussy. She was very wet and he began to stroke his finger in and out of her.

After a few seconds, she stopped him and said, "If you want some of this, you are going to have to pay for it." She stood up to see what his response would be.

Ed looked at her and then pulled out his knot. He peeled off one hundred dollars and sat it on the table in front of him. She smiled at him and said, "You are gonna want to spend more than that after I'm done with you!"

She got down on her knees and unzipped Ed's pants. She then pulled out his dick and in one swift motion; she took him in her mouth. When she pulled him out of her mouth, to his surprise a condom was on his dick.

"Damn ma! How the fuck did you do that?" Ed said, looking amazed and turned on at the same time.

"I told you I'm gonna turn your ass out. You haven't seen nothing yet," Tamara said as she began sucking the Ed's dick. She was a deep throat specialist, and took all of him in her mouth without gagging. Ed was turned out already and he hadn't even fucked her yet.

Then he told Tamara to lie on the couch. She put her face in the pillow and tooted her ass up in the air. He pulled his pants and boxers down to his ankles and pulled her thong to the side. He entered her from the back and his dick slid right in with no problem.

"Oh shit Daddy! Tear this pussy up!" Tamara begged and moaned as she bit down on her bottom lip as Ed's dick slid in and out of her wet pussy.

Ed started with medium speed strokes as he listened to Tamara moan, watched her fat ass jiggle and bounce back and forth with each stroke.

"Throw that shit back ma!" Ed demanded as his strokes started to speed up. Like a good little girl, Tamara did as she was told, and threw her ass back, enjoying every stroke.

Ed spread both of Tamara's ass cheeks apart as he continued to thrust his dick into her hot sopping wet pussy until he couldn't take it anymore and filled his condom with semen.

"Damn girl! I think I'm in love!" Ed said as he sat on the couch and began taking the condom off. Before he could finish, Tamara was already pulling it off with her mouth. She took the whole condom off with her mouth and spit on the floor. Before Ed could say a word, she was already trying to bring his dick back to life.

"Damn! You are one nasty freaky bitch and I think I'm going to have to keep you around," he said while watching her go to work on his penis.

"I told you I would have you sprung," Tamara said looking up from sucking his dick.

They ended up fucking again until he had to leave. She didn't want him to go, but her mom was on her way home. Truth be told, he had also turned her ass out. When they finished, they exchanged numbers and Ed left for home.

* * *

Ed arrived at his crib an hour later and went straight to his room. When he unlocked his door, he noticed that he had forgotten to put his money up. " _Oh shit! I 'm glad I have that lock on my door_," he said to himself as he went over to count all of the money on his bed. He now had twelve thousand dollars in cash and that wasn't even including the money from Twan that he still had in the car. He thought to himself that he better buy a safe so he could keep his money protected. That was the first thing he was going to do after they did their thing tomorrow.

For now though, he needed some much deserved rest. Nobody was home but him so he took a shower and went to bed early.

**Chapter 10**

**July 4, 2009**

It had been seven months since Maria had formed her alliance. All of them had graduated high school last month except for Ed who had dropped out of school after he locked down a few blocks in North Philly. He had his own team of killers and drug dealers. They were all young boys with ages ranging from fifteen to seventeen. They all wanted to be like him so they followed his every word.

EJ and the rest of the team had made a tremendous come up as well. They now had a team of casher's and depositors. All in all, they had a team that was fifteen strong, including the five that started this operation.

They were making money out of their asses. It was the fourth of July and everybody was having a cookout. EJ and Ed decided they were going to go to the cookout in Fairmount Park. That's where all of the women were so they wanted to be there. They both had purchased motorcycles for the summer. EJ had a 600 CBR that was kitted up to make it fast as a 750. He was a little scared of bikes, but since he had just learned how to ride, he wanted one.

Ed had a Yamaha 1100, which was extremely fast. They both wore wife beaters with _True Religion_ jean shorts. Ed had his tattoos on display for everyone to see. EJ didn't have any tattoos, but his muscles made up for all that. He was cut up like a bag of dope from working out the past five months.

When they pulled up to the park, all the girls were eye balling them. EJ noticed one in particular. It was Yahnise! Her and her girls were looking good as hell. She had on a black _Monki_ mini-skirt, a white _Patta Distribution_ shirt, and a pair of white Nike _Air Force One_ 's. Sonja was sporting a _Steffe Dress_ with a pair of _Eric Rutberg_ wedge sandals and Meana had on a _Karen Miller_ dress with a pair of _DeeFind_ platform heels.

They were definitely getting all of the attention. EJ didn't think that he would see anybody else there as bad as them. He knew every nigga there had probably tried to come at them by now.

Yahnise watched EJ as he was talking to everybody and he kept staring at her as well. As he and Ed walked pass them, one of her girls hollered out, "Look at y'all get money niggas. I see y'all finally stepped your game up, huh!"

Before EJ could say anything, Ed spoke up. "Oh so now you want to talk to us; huh? Before you didn't have shit to say so don't bother to say shit now!"

The girls couldn't believe that Ed had just talked to them like that. They all turned and started walking the other way. Yahnise turned around and looked at EJ as if she wanted to say something, but she didn't. He watched as they mingled with everyone else.

* * *

Later that night, it was time to watch the fireworks. Ed had left because he met some shorty and he wanted to take her home and fuck her. EJ stayed and chilled with a couple of people. As he stood there watching the fireworks, he noticed Yahnise standing over by herself. He thought this was his chance to say something to her or else he may never get the chance again.

He walked up and stood beside her while still watching the show. "Yahnise I would like to apologize for my friend's rude outburst earlier," EJ said as he looked at her. "I know it might not mean much, but I've liked you since we were in high school. I knew you would never give someone like me a chance unless I was getting money. Well I'm living a good life now and I would love to take you out sometime if you are interested," EJ said waiting for an answer.

Yahnise turned and looked at him. She couldn't deny that he had come up by the way he carried himself now.

"What makes you think that I like people with money or will only talk to people that can buy me things? I knew you liked me, but I never said anything because you always acted as if you were scared to approach me. You see me with all of this expensive stuff on and assume that I got it from a baller. Well just so you know; my mom and dad bought all of this stuff for me. In fact, the niggas that I did talk to never gave me anything. I didn't want them to think they would get something back in return," she said while looking back at the fireworks.

EJ was shocked because he assumed that she was a gold digger. "I guess I misjudged you and your friends; huh?"

"No, my friends only fuck with ballers, but I'm not like that," she said giving him a smile. "I would like to apologize to you as well for my friends treating you like that when you held the door open that day in school. I should have said something a while ago, but every time you seen me after that, you went the other way."

"Well I would really like to get to know you, Yahnise. I was shy before, but now I have a little bit of confidence," EJ said smiling.

They stood, talking while watching the rest of the show. As they talked, they realized that they had a lot in common. It was dark outside and the fireworks were over. Yahnise gave EJ her phone number and he did the same. He walked her to her car and opened the door for her to get in before shutting it.

"Well, I had a nice time talking to you. Make sure you call me when you get home so I will know that you made it there safely and be careful on that bike," Yahnise said, starting her car.

"I'll do that and you also be careful and don't give any strangers a ride," EJ said, and they both broke into laughter.

He watched her as she pulled off and then jumped up and down from excitement as he went to jump on his bike and head home, thinking about her the entire way.

* * *

Ed woke up at around 1:00 in the morning. The little shorty that he had bagged earlier at the park was lying next to him butt naked with the sheet only covering half of her body. He was about to wake her up for another round of fucking when his cell phone rang.

Ed grabbed his phone off of the dresser and seen that it was Twan calling him. "Hey! What's good nigga?" he said sitting up on the edge of the bed.

"Yo! We just got robbed! They hit the stash house about five minutes ago and they killed three of our workers," Twan said sounding hysterical.

"Whoa! Whoa! Slow down nigga. Who hit the stash house and what happened to the workers?" Ed said walking out of his bedroom and going into his sister's bedroom so no one could hear his conversation.

Twan calmed down and said, "Some niggas came through in a white van and took everything in the stash house. They killed BoBo, Shank, and Peewee. They also left a note talking about this is only the beginning if you don't shut this operation down." Twan paused for a minute to catch his breath because he was talking a mile a minute. "I was just pulling up when they were pulling off. I ran in the spot and Peewee was still alive. He is the one who told me what happened before he went into shock and flat-lined right in my arms! This is fucked up!" he said, sounding as if he was almost in tears and mad as hell.

"Yo, round up everybody and meet me at the spot. Make sure everybody is locked and loaded. It's war time!" Ed said, as he ended the call.

He ran back in his room and started putting on his black jeans and a black hoodie. Then he grabbed his black Timbs out of the closet. "Wake up Shorty. I have to go. It's an emergency," Ed said shaking the girl on her ass.

She woke up and dressed quickly when she saw the look on Ed's face.

"I will call you tomorrow night and we can hook up and go out to dinner or something," he said as he put on his bullet proof vest.

After Ed showed her out, he went to his basement where he kept his guns. He grabbed the AK47 assault rifle and two 9mm's with the extended clip. Then he quickly left his house and jumped in his car heading to the spot.

* * *

When Ed got there, all the goons were already there waiting on him. He had about fifteen killers on his team and they were locked and loaded. "Did anybody say who these niggas was that hit the spot," he asked, pacing the floor.

"Yeah it was that nigga YG's people," one of his lieutenants said. YG was not only doing the chop shop thing, but he had some blocks on lock since Peedi had died. Now he was trying to take Ed's blocks also and he wasn't having that.

"Okay! Then it's time to pay this motherfucker a visit! Everybody in that place dies tonight. If anybody is left standing, the person that missed will have to deal with me; understand? Ed said looking around the room at everyone.

There was silence.

"Okay, let's roll out," he said, heading for the door.

Everybody jumped in four different cars. Ed couldn't believe that, that nigga YG would try to take over his spot. Then on top of that, he had the audacity to kill three of his best men. A sin that bad could not go unpunished. If it was war that he wanted, then it was war that he was going to get. The bad part about it was that he knew where his chop shop was located and he also knew where the nigga rested his head.

Ed dialed Gene's number to make sure he wasn't with him. "Yo, what's up nigga? Where you at?" Ed asked.

"I'm chilling with my Shorty right now. Why? What's up?" Gene said sitting on the couch.

"That nigga YG hit my spot tonight and killed three of my men. Now I'm on my way to see that bitch ass nigga," Ed said mad as shit.

"Yo, where you at now? I'm going to meet you so I can ride out with you," Gene said strapping up.

"We're on our way to his shop right now," Ed said, hitting the blunt from his man.

"Okay, I'm out the door right now. I'll be there in about fifteen minutes. If all hell breaks loose before then, make sure your men don't fire at me because I will be coming with my shit blazing," Gene said running to and jumping inside his car..

"Okay, peace nigga! See you when I see you," Ed said hanging up.

* * *

YG was at his shop laughing about the come-up he had just made. He was a greedy and stingy motherfucker. The only people he treated right were the ones in his own circle. If you weren't in his immediate circle then you could get it. That's why not only did he hit Ed's spot, but he had hit some other nigga in Chester too.

"How much did we get from those bitch ass niggas?" YG asked one of his soldiers.

"All together with both licks, we scored about $60,000.00 in cash and three and a quarter of work," the goon told him.

"Alright, that's good. Now maybe those niggas will leave the area and never come back."

He never did like Ed. Ever since that night that he came to his shop with Gene, he knew he was a cocky son-of-a-bitch. That's why he never did business with Gene after that. Gene tried to bring some more work his way, but he turned it down. That infuriated Gene, but he wouldn't try shit due to the fact that YG had about twenty soldiers around him at all times.

"Okay, let's party! Bring the bitches in here so we can get some lap dances," YG said, trying to enjoy himself. He wasn't spending his money so he didn't care that they were about to blow a few thousand on some pussy.

* * *

Ed and his soldiers arrived at the shop and to their surprise; they heard loud music as if they were having a party.

"Okay, when we go in here, we are to go in fast and don't leave nothing behind or no one standing," Ed said cocking his AK.

Before they could pull off towards the garage, Gene pulled up. "We are gonna have to ram through the gate and once we do that, all hell is going to break loose," he said as he grabbed the AR15 out of his trunk.

"Alright fellas, let's go let these bitch boys know who they are fucking with!" Ed said as they jumped back in their cars and pulled off.

* * *

YG was on the couch drinking Ciroc while a white stripper gave him good head. Everybody was enjoying themselves until they heard a loud bang and gunfire coming from several different types of guns at the same time.

BLOC! BLOC! BLOC! BLOC!

POP! POP! POP! POP!

BOC! BOC! BOC! BOC!

Everybody jumped, ran for cover, and grabbed their weapons.

YG tossed the girl off of him and grabbed his Tech-9 from under the pillow.

"Who the fuck is that?! Everybody strap the fuck up and get those bitch ass niggas!"

YG ran over and hit his video monitor and all he saw was his men outside shooting it out with what looked like twenty niggas in all black. All of the men had on masks so their faces couldn't be seen, but YG knew who it was. He didn't think that they would retaliate this fast. " _How in the hell did they even know it was me_?" he thought to himself as he ran for the area where his soldiers were at war.

He was going to ride with his boys no matter what!

BOOM! That was the sound of the door being kicked in. Two niggas ran in with guns blazing, but YG already had the drop on them. He hit them both in the head killing them before they even hit the ground.

He then realized that he was losing the battle so he made his way out the back door and jumped into one of his cars and made his escape.

* * *

Bodies covered the place. Ed and Gene were now in the office looking for YG, but he was gone.

"Let's get the fuck out of here!" Ed yelled as he heard sirens from a distance. They all ran out and jumped in their cars and got out of that area before the cops came.

After all of that shooting, they had killed everybody except YG. They had rocked eight of his men during that commotion.

Ed vowed that he would get that nigga if it were the last thing he did. He just didn't know when.

**To Be Continued ...**

****

**NOW AVAILABLE**

_Flipping Numbers PT 2_

__

_Flipping Numbers PT3_

__

_Flipping Numbers PT4_

****

**Facebook Fan Club**

<https://www.facebook.com/groups/ErnestMorris/>

**Sign up for Free Giveaways and New Release updates!**

Please leave your review of this novel.

Ernest would love your feedback.
