

Copyright © 2019 by Eve L. Mitchell

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without written permission from the author, except for the use of brief quotations in a book review. Copyright infringement is against the law, please do not abuse the hard work of the author.

This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to any person, living or dead, or any events or occurrences, is purely coincidental. The characters and story lines within this book are created by the authors imagination and are used fictitiously.

Editorial services provided by First Read Editorial; www.joesephonebanksofficial.com/editing

Cover Design; EVE Graphic Design LLC; https://www.facebook.com/EVEGraphicDesign/

  Created with Vellum

# Contents

Foreword

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Chapter 9

From the Author

About the Author

Also by Eve L. Mitchell

I have tried to stay true to the locations, schools, and landmarks of Boulder and Loveland, Colorado. Any error that there may be in my descriptions, is entirely mine and my inability to use Google Maps properly. I have truly enjoyed my research of the state of Colorado. I would dearly love to visit one day; Boulder continues to have a special place in my heart. Any deviations that there may be from the city or surrounding area are to fit in with the story.

* * *

Please note that I am a British author and although I have tried to make this as universal as I could, there will be some British spelling, phraseology, and terminology that I can't (and won't) eradicate from my writing and I am ok with that, I hope you are too.

# Chapter One

"Raine!" I sighed. I could hear my brother – yelling over the noise of the lockers slamming shut, as school finished for the week. Glancing back, I caught sight of him, over the heads of everyone else in the crowded hall. He was tall, wide and a linebacker for our highschool football team. I knew I didn't have much longer before people would start making room for him, they naturally stepped out of his way. I couldn't even run, since we shared a car.

"You weren't planning on leaving without me, Drop?"

My eyes closed briefly, and I turned with a smile. "Where would I go? Anyway, thought you had a date?" I asked my brother.

"Shut up. I told you that in secret," he whispered at me furiously, as he pulled me to the side of the hall. I don't know why he thought that was better, every girl was watching him. His black wavy hair flopped over his brow and hung in his brown eyes as he glared at me. Prominent cheekbones, full lips, and a strong jaw. My brother was a hottie. I crossed my eyes at him as I stuck my tongue out. He stood around 6'2", which was good because he needed to be big to take down quarterbacks and offensive players. His broad shoulders shielded me from students as they departed for the day.

"It's a stupid secret and you're gonna get in trouble," I whispered back, just as furious. My brother was my best friend, he was ten months older than me – mom and dad hadn't messed about. I had the same dark hair, kept short for easiness. I wasn't tall like my brother, he seemed to have gotten all the healthy food when mom was pregnant. I think she was binge eating all the junk food she had abstained from when she was pregnant with him, not realising that she was already pregnant with baby number three, so I came out shorter and curvier. That was my excuse anyway, and I was sticking to it. Because there was only ten months between us, mom and dad decided to hold River back to keep us in the same school year. I don't think he resented me _too_ much for it.

River, yes – our parents, called us Raine and River. Our older brother is called Trent. Normal – until you realise it's a river in England and apparently means 'rushing waters' in Latin or something. You think that's bad? Our last name is Hudson.

"You're not going to cover for me?" River stared at me in shock.

I rolled my eyes. "I cannot believe you think you can hook up with this skank and no one will know."

He shushed me again as he looked around. "She isn't a skank, I told you this. She's nice." River's eyes hardened. "C'mon, you said you would do this for me."

"You're going to get caught, you're gonna get your ass kicked and then our brother is going to come home and he's going to kill both of us," I hissed at him.

River started pulling me after him to the doors. Trent, was in his sophomore year at college, playing football at Colorado University, waiting patiently for River to graduate and join him on the team as his new linebacker. Trent was a huge name in our town because he was a Colorado boy playing college football at CU. He was definitely heading to the NFL and if River trained and did as he was told under our brother's direction, he would be too.

"You're overreacting. C'mon, all I need is for you to be my eyes." He dragged me to our car and opened the doors of the Toyota Camry.

"I don't have to – you know – actually _watch_ do I?" I asked him as I put my seatbelt on.

"You're funny," he lightly punched my arm and I laughed. We headed out of Loveland and towards one of the National Parks.

River and I had this easy camaraderie, other people would watch us and the way we spoke to each other and think we didn't get on, but that's because they didn't know us.

"You're going hiking?" I asked in disbelief.

"No, I said I'd meet her out of town, we'll go in her car and then you can follow." He glanced at me guiltily.

I turned in my seat, facing my brother fully. "Follow where?" I asked suspiciously.

"Okay, don't freak out."

"I'm freaking out Riv." My eyes narrowed on him.

"Well, there's a party tonight. In Boulder at CU, at her cousin's frat house." I was waiting, that sounded fine, we were both 18, college parties on a Friday night sounded great. Except he looked nervous as shit. "She said her cousin won't mind if we use the room."

"That's just too much information for me. I mean I know you do it, but please, I don't actually want the details." I gagged. "This isn't why I would be freaking out though. I don't know why I have to be there. Is Trent going to be there?"

"No...but possibly Zac Hunter." He glanced at me quickly. I knew my mouth was hanging open.

"Are you freaking stupid?" I launched forward hitting him.

"Raine, I'm driving, stop it," River protested. He pushed me away from him and I sat back glaring at him.

"Why the hell are we doing this? He hates you. He hates Trent more. He sees you there, with his _ex-girlfriend_ and all hell is going to break loose." I closed my eyes. " _This_ is what you need me for? To keep an eye out for Zac freaking Hunter?"

The fact that my brother had the decency to look apologetic was not easing my temper. Zac was a year younger than Trent and the same age as River. Academically, where we were seniors in high school, he was a freshman in college, where Trent was a sophomore. Zac and Trent had a bad history. Trent was all about sports and so was our dad. The men in my household really took athleticism to the next level. If it was a sport, they played it. If it was a competition, they won it. There was no room for failure. Not for the Hudson men. Mom and I didn't have the bug. At all. My mom was all about achieving her inner zen and yoga. I was all about avoiding the permanently wound up stress ball that was my dad or the permanently zoned out hippy that was my mom. My brothers were the perfect blend, both having dad's amazing focus and ability and mom's laid-back nature to balance that out.

Zac had been our school's quarterback last year before he graduated. He was decent – he wasn't Tom Brady – but then who is? No, the current star of our team was River, the linebacker and before that Trent, had been the big name. Zac was at CU as well, still on the college team, he played wide receiver now.

The feud between the boys had started all the way back in elementary school and by the time high school finished, the hatred ran deep. When Zac was in second grade, Trent had stumbled, pushed Zac over, and wound up breaking his leg. It just happened that school sports day was that week and the Hudson men didn't lose. The speculation had started the week before that Zac would beat Trent's record, Zac had always been fast. He couldn't beat a record with a broken leg though. I had been assured it was an accident. I believed that, no one else saw how much my brother had cried over the fact he had seriously hurt him.

Throughout school, Zac had Trent a year above him and River a year below – the pressure was on the whole way through school amongst the three of them to win.

Because I was neither sporty, male, or a threat, I usually avoided any fallout from Zac. Sure, I had the occasional foot trip, the shoulder bump, the dropped books, always with a comment and the tag of the "Littlest Hudson" – in age and height – or just some downright hostility if I was with my brothers. Simply put, the Hudsons and Hunters were not friends.

"I cannot believe you are risking this for his sloppy seconds," I muttered as I stared out the window.

"Don't be mean Drop, it doesn't suit you." River scolded me. "I told you, Marcie is really nice. We really hit it off this summer and I want to see her during school. I just don't want anyone to know." He glanced at me as I frowned out the window.

"Trent is going to go freaking mental," I muttered.

"We're not gonna tell him."

I shot him a death glare. "You're not telling our brother that you're banging his arch enemy's ex?"

"Nope, what he doesn't know won't hurt him," River told me confidently.

"It's going to hurt you." I returned to looking out at the greenery as we headed to Forks Park.

"Relax Raine." River grinned at me. "You know I'm always right about these things."

As we pulled into the parking lot, he missed my eye roll. Jumping out of the car he rushed over to the blue Civic. I watched Marcie get out and greet him. She was tall and willowy with flaming red hair and ivory skin. I immediately started humming the words to a Dolly Parton song; _your beauty is beyond compare, with flaming locks of auburn hair_. River had his arms around her, and I looked away as he kissed her with far too much enthusiasm. _Ugh, get a room._ _Yes, they're doing that Raine, right after here._ The drive to Boulder would take about fifty minutes. I glanced at my watch – it was barely after four. What was I supposed to do with them all day? I glanced up. _No, he was not walking over here. Oh God, he was._ He was going to make me talk to her. He wouldn't have to worry about Trent kicking his ass – I was going to do it.

"Hey, you're being rude. Get out and come say hi." River poked his head in the window and glared at me.

"I don't want to," I snapped.

"Get out the car." He spun and walked back over to her.

Grumbling, I got out and – scuffing my boots – I walked over slowly. I saw her assess me as I made my way over. I was about 5'7" if I stood straight, but I wasn't standing straight. I had black Madden boots on with purple laces, bare legs, denim cut-offs, white tank and a purple shirt tied around my waist. My short black hair was cut choppy to just under my ears. I had subtle purple highlights that annoyed my dad and made my mom beam with pride. Marcie with her short denim skirt and flower print camisole measured me, judged me and had dismissed me by the time I reached her car.

"Marcie this is my sister, Raine." River had his arm slipped around her tiny waist. Her smile was polite, her eyes cool.

"Hey," I greeted.

"River speaks about you a lot." She beamed at him. Wow, that was a whole different look than the one I got. Her focus shifted back to me – the warmth gone.

"Funny, he hasn't mentioned you much at all." My own smile was saccharine sweet.

"Didn't I tell you Raine was funny?" River joked as he shot me a look. "So, you want to head to Boulder now and get something to eat at Pearl Mall?" He turned her deftly in his arms and pulled her into him.

Pearl Mall? Was he joking? He wanted to take her to the most popular place in Boulder, a stone's throw from CU and where our brother – or her _ex-boyfriend_ – was liable to walk past? "Pearl Mall? Are you serious?" I demanded.

"Chill out Drop, I know what I'm doing," River growled at me.

"You're okay with this?" I asked Marcie.

"Well if River thinks it's okay, then I don't see the problem." She beamed at him again.

I walked back to the car in disgust. River yelled at me to follow them. I flipped him off and slammed the car door shut behind me.

My foot was tapping on the concrete. It had been for about twenty minutes. I was sitting out front of the Cheesecake Factory with a half-eaten slice of heaven in front of me. My brother, meanwhile, was in a back booth inside, on a date with a girl he should be nowhere near. Every time I heard laughter, I tensed. Every time people walked past me, I strained to see if the crowd concealed my older brother or his friends. Or Zac Hunter and _his_ friends.

"Hi."

I jerked my head up from the text I was sending to River, wanting to know if he was finished yet. A guy stood in front of me. Awkwardly. "Huh?"

"Raine?" He was slim, blonde, wearing glasses and _cigarette pants_? Wait, were they loafers on his feet? "Are you Raine?"

"Huh?" My attention snapped back to him. "Yeah. Who are you?"

"Stephen. With a P." He took a seat. He glanced around as he rubbed his arms.

"Okay, Step Hen. What you doing?" I asked him as he glared at me.

"I'm here to get Marcie."

"So... you're the cousin?" I took a drink of my soda.

"I'm the cousin," he confirmed. "I'm to take her to the party, in case she sees anyone on the way, if you know what I mean?"

"This is ridiculous," I muttered as I shoved away from the table. I made my way inside past the waiter and dumped my cheque onto my brother's table. "We're leaving. You can pay mine."

"Raine..." River began.

"Not interested. Come on. I'm going home. You coming?" I ignored Marcie completely.

River sat back and looked at me. I knew this look. This was his _Raine will fold because_ _I am the tough older_ _brother_ look. Okay dumbass, I see your look, I'll raise you – here's my _I'm going to win because I'm a stubborn little sister_ look. River's eyes narrowed; I raised my eyebrows.

"Is there something going on here?" Marcie asked us. Neither River nor I looked away. However, I wasn't trying to impress my girlfriend. River looked away first. I didn't hide my victorious grin.

"I need to speak to Raine, I'll be one minute." He slid out of the booth and grabbed my arm as he pulled me to the front of the restaurant.

"What are you doing? We spoke about this – you're being such a little brat today," River hissed.

"You're being a dick. This is stupid – her cousin's outside, let her go to the party and we can go home and watch Netflix," I protested.

"Hi." We both turned to Stephen.

"The cousin," I explained. "Step hen."

"You could just say Stephen," he protested.

"She could do many things, she won't though." My brother held his hand out. "I'm River."

"I'm not doing this Riv," I protested again.

"Okay." He was watching Marcie as she exited the restaurant.

"Dude!" I waved my hand in front of his face. He snapped his eyes back to me. "C'mon, let's go home, we can take Marcie with us if you want," I offered.

"I want to go to the party." Marcie whined.

I turned to her in exasperation. " _Why?_ You'll be in a room for God's sake, are you so desperate to get laid?"

"Raine!" I flinched at the fury in my brother's voice. He pushed past me as he spoke softly to her, even Step Hen was staring at my lack of social skills.

"You go on, we'll follow," River assured her a few minutes later. River went back inside to pay and then he was out front beside me.

"We need to have that talk again, where you don't speak until you have thought about what you want to say first," he said grimly as he started walking back to the car.

"Okay, so maybe implying she was easy wasn't my finest moment," I mumbled as I walked behind him. I caught his disbelieving look as I flushed and stared at my boots. "Are we still going? You know even though I may not have _used my words_ properly, the sentiment is the same."

"I don't need air quotes Drop. We're still going," River said firmly as he got in the car.

_Shit_.

# Chapter Two

I was sitting on guard duty in the car, looking at my phone, as I had refused to go in. Step Hen had assured me there was only one door for the party and I could see it from the car. There was another entrance around the back – but it was a no entry on party nights. He had told River he would stay near the back door and look out for Zac. However, he'd said, he was sure that Zac wouldn't be anywhere near this party. Marcie had simpered and River had grinned. I had snorted at the fact that no one had seemed to pick up on Step Hen quite blatantly telling them his own party wasn't cool enough for Zac Hunter to attend.

I was in my car with the windows down, in the August heat, with no air. I was feeling sticky. A loud group walking past the car made me duck down a little further in the seat. I peeked over the wheel, checking for my brother first, Zac second. I felt kind of stupid – this wasn't as bad as I thought it would be and now... I was bored. I also needed to pee. I shifted in my seat; River couldn't be much longer. He'd been in there for a while. I shifted again. Another group of people went past the car; I ducked down, then peered through the windscreen. Not Trent, not Zac. I texted my older brother.

Me: **What you up to tonight?**

I bit my lip. It wasn't unusual for me to text Trent. We had a good relationship – it wasn't like it was with River, but it was still good. The only problem was, Trent was shit when it came to texting. He had a phone but was more likely to leave it in his backpack than his back pocket. A loud laugh nearby made me jump which reminded my bladder that it needed relieving. I checked my phone; Trent hadn't replied. I was going to have to go into the house and find a bathroom.

I could text River but knowing what he was doing made me icky thinking about it. I turned the engine on quickly, closed the windows and then got out, locking the car behind me. I walked two steps before considering my clothes. I reopened my car, threw the purple shirt in, applied some lip gloss, fluffed my hair and then relocked the car. I hastened up the steps to the frat house. There was a huge guy at the front door, he had been there most of the evening. I hadn't minded the eye candy he had offered me from my vantage point from the car. His eyes ran over me and his grin was slow and sexy as he watched me approach.

"Well hello there. All alone?" He looked over my shoulder.

"My friends are inside," I offered with a confidence I wasn't feeling. _Don't ask me their names, please._

"You could have a friend outside if you wanted." He handed me an empty red Solo cup. I took the cup, thanked him and with a smile and a shrug, sidled past him.

Once inside I weaved through the throngs of people and started looking for a bathroom. Good grief where did all these people come from? There was no way they all came through the front door. I saw a door open and a guy came out of what was obviously a bathroom, I dashed towards him and ducked under his arm. I heard the cry of protest from whoever was next in line and locked the door. My nose scrunched in distaste as I took in the bathroom. Ugh, how many people had been in here already? My bladder had her eye on the prize though, so taking care to hover and not touch anything, I finally achieved release. Washing my hands vigorously, I bypassed the hand towel and dried my hands on my jean shorts. I slipped out of the bathroom, ignoring the angry muttering of whoever I had jumped in front of. I looked at my phone and the one message I had. _Trent._

Trent: **Hey sis, nothing much, at a frat party.**

_Shit. Shit. Shit._ Okay Raine, this didn't mean anything, CU was huge. He could be anywhere; he could be at some other party. A cool hand clasped my upper arm. _Or he could be here._

"Rainey?"

I turned and looked into the light brown eyes of my oldest brother. He didn't have the black hair that River and I did, his being more brown than black. His skin was golden like ours, from having spent too much time in the sun playing sports, whereas mine was golden from having spent too much time watching them play sports.

"Why are you here?" His smile was welcoming but unsure. He looked around and I knew he was looking for River. He looked back at me and glanced at what I was wearing, a thin line appeared on his brow. "What are you wearing? Are you wearing school clothes?" The frown thickened. "Where's Riv?"

"Hmm? I'm alone." I rocked back on my heels and aimed my most blinding smile at him.

Trent folded his arms, his face stoic. Just then his friend Colin walked up. "Raine? This is a surprise." He looked around the room. "Where's River?"

I fought every molecule of my being to stop the eye roll. Were we so predictable? Where one went, the other would follow?

"She says she's alone," Trent told Colin, his eyes never leaving me. Colin frowned.

"River isn't here?" Colin asked me.

"River isn't where?" I turned in disbelief as River sauntered up behind me, with a red Solo cup in one hand, his hair mussed and a smile for Trent. He fist-bumped Colin and greeted Trent, barely glancing at me.

"Why'd you say he wasn't here Raine?" Trent muttered to me. "You're so weird sometimes." Shaking his head at me, he immediately started talking to River about football practice. I glanced at River who continued to ignore me. I shook my head in disgust and saw Colin watching me.

"What's going on?" he asked me softly.

"Forget it. I'm just weird." I tapped the empty cup against my bottom lip. "Hey Riv, we heading home now?"

River turned to me with a sharp glance at Trent and a warning look. "No, why would we be heading home? We just got here." I loved my brother, I did, but I was in serious danger of smacking his head off the wall.

"You okay, Raine?" Trent was watching me – he was smart and missed nothing.

"Don't feel too good," I lied.

"You okay to drive?" he asked me. I nodded. "Okay, go home. Riv can stay with me tonight, I'll text dad and let him know. I was heading home tomorrow anyway for mom to do my laundry." He high fived River as Colin moved over to another group.

"You can wash your own clothes," I snapped at him. "Seriously, you're staying here?" I demanded of River.

"Leave him alone Raine, Christ you're worse than a girlfriend. Maybe he wants to hook up without his little sister watching him." Trent laughed and ruffled my hair. River laughed and looked away as he took a swig of his drink.

"Forget it. You both suck balls." I walked away from both of them and headed out of the party and to the car. I slammed the car shut and headed out of Boulder, ignoring the texts that came pinging in from River.

I reached Loveland, and not wanting to go home just yet, headed to one of the parks to mull over the course of the day. How had I ended up the one at home on a Friday night alone, while River got to be at a college party with the girl he _shouldn't_ be with and Trent none the wiser? I pulled into the parking area and saw a handful of cars there. Not recognising any of them, I parked at the edge of the parking area and picked up my phone to text my friends to see if any of them were here. As I pressed send, my phone ran out of battery. That pretty much summed up my night. Enough was enough, it was time to head home.

I reversed out and drove along past Central Lake reservoir on the way home. Then a loud bang startled me as the front tyre blew out. I kept control of the car as it swerved, remembering my dad's instructions to drive into the swerve and keep control of the car. Slowing, I pulled over to the side of the road, where there was an opening onto the entrance of the reservoir. My heart racing and my palms sweaty, I laid my head on the steering wheel. _Jesus_. Shaking my head, I got out of the car and walked to the front. In the dim light I could see the front tyre was shredded. What did I hit? I kicked it with my boot. _Helpful, Raine_. I must have gone over something at the park, there was no other explanation. _Dammit._

I trudged back to the trunk to get the spare, thankfully I knew how to change a tyre. Dad was all about car maintenance – even if I did share the car with River, a girl had to know how to get herself out of sticky situations. I glanced at my watch. Yeah, I'd say after eleven on a Friday night at the side of a road with no cell was a sticky situation. I dug through the trunk. I had a spare, a tyre iron and no jack. I stood back and thought about it. I considered the Camry like a puzzle. Newer cars liked to hide the equipment in the vehicles to utilise the space more. If I was a jack where would I be? I started to prowl around the car. Twenty minutes later, I was hot, bothered and had turned up jack shit. Pun entirely intended. Not one car had passed me either.

I picked up the tyre iron and hurled it across the entrance. I heard a soft splash as it landed in the reservoir. Oh drat, I shouldn't have done that either. Slamming the car door shut, I hurried across the parking area and climbed down the small embankment to the edge of the water. It was dark and the area was lit dimly by moonlight but still, I wasn't looking forward to wading in there. The water lapped loudly onto the edge. I looked at my Maddens – yeah, they needed to come off. I quickly took my boots and socks off and dipped one foot in and instantly jerked it back out with a yelp.

"What in God's name are you doing?"

My scream was ear-splitting as I jumped in surprise. I lost my balance and a firm arm grabbed me to stop me from falling in the reservoir completely. "Jesus!" I teetered on the edge for a moment before the strong hand steadied me.

"I don't recommend swimming in the dark." The voice was amused but held a warning.

I turned, semi-embarrassed. "No, I need my tyre iron, it slipped." _Totally implausible._

"Huh?" I couldn't see my 'rescuer' in the dim light, especially with the headlights of a car behind him. "Come on, let's get you back up to the lot."

It was then that I noticed he hadn't let go of my arm. Did he think I was a flight risk? He tugged me slightly impatiently. "Chill dude, I wasn't going swimming." I pulled my arm from his hold and almost instantly yelped when I stubbed my foot on a rock.

"What did you do?" A flashlight on a phone illuminated me hopping on one foot. "Are you serious? Why are you barefoot?"

"Didn't want to get my boots wet." I rubbed my toes. "That stings. Jesus, that's gonna hurt." I let out a rueful laugh. "My boots!" I turned and grabbed my boots and socks. When I turned back the flashlight was shining in my eyes.

"You have _got_ to be kidding me," I heard him mutter. The light was suddenly gone. I quickly put my socks and boots back on and hurried up the embankment. The headlights of the Jeep illuminated the lot. I slowed slightly.

_No, this wasn't happening._ Zac Hunter stood in front of my car. He was scrutinising my shredded tyre. He glanced at me once and turned away. A girl stood beside him, she smiled at me hesitatingly when I approached.

"Littlest Hudson." I turned to see Zac's best friend and sidekick Rory Parker sitting in the back seat of the Jeep, another girl beside him.

"Hey," I greeted uncertainly.

"What happened?" Rory jumped out of the Jeep and approached.

"Blew a tyre. Tried to change it. Can't find the jack, accidentally lost the tyre iron in the lake." I didn't look at Zac. I saw him kick the wheel.

"You threw it in the reservoir?" Zac asked gruffly.

"I had a disagreement with it." I shrugged.

"Then went in to get it?" Zac still wasn't looking at me as he asked the questions.

"Figured I might need it." I shoved my hands in my back pockets.

He turned to me. Zac was tall – he matched River in height – but was leaner. River was bulky because he played defence. Zac was lean because he needed to be fast on offence and was a runner. He had muscle though, my eyes ran over his frame – he was wearing a black t-shirt with a grey skull on it. Faded, ripped jeans, with a wallet chain. Dark brown hair cut short but fashionably long on top, he was a good-looking guy. If you liked cold and arrogant. I didn't. My eyes lingered a little longer on his shoulders than they should have though.

"How far did you drive with the wheel wrecked?" he asked me, pulling my attention off his shoulders.

"Not far, just pulled off into here." I shrugged as I went over to the car. "Why?"

"Rim's bent. You wouldn't get a new tyre on." He glanced at me once and looked away; he walked past me back to his Jeep. "Better call for help, Hudson." The way he said my last name made me flinch.

"Um, wait!" I called. He didn't. They drove off and left me. _Bastards._ Twenty minutes later I was sitting in my locked car when another pair of headlights had me ducking down in the seat. I was soon sitting up when I recognised a tow truck from a local garage in Loveland.

"You call in a breakdown?" an older man asked as he jumped out of the cab and walked up to the car.

"Um, sure." I got out and watched him.

"Well, that's all bent out of shape," he said as he looked at the wheel. "You'll need a tow. You call anyone else?" He looked at me as he crouched down and assessed the damage.

"No sir, my cell ran out of battery not long after I called you," I lied.

"Well best phone your folks, they'll be wondering where you are at this time of night." He handed me an old, battered cell phone and then went back to the truck to start the process of hitching up my car. I quickly phoned home and woke my parents. I explained what happened. Dad spoke to the garage guy and after a short while, I was finally heading home.

# Chapter Three

_T wo weeks later_

"I can't believe you're still sulking over the car incident," River muttered as we walked along the halls on Friday afternoon. The bell had just rung for last period and we were heading home.

"I'm not sulking. I told you, you're a dick. _You_ just need to accept it." I swung my tote over my shoulder as I exited school and headed to the car. The wheel and rim had been replaced and the Camry was as good as new.

River and Trent were not as good as new, though. Dad had not been impressed at their lack of brotherly love in allowing me to come home by myself. Nor their lacklustre attempts to ensure I had got home safely. He had grounded River for a week and forbade football practice, praising me for having the sense to have a 24-hour garage service saved on my phone. Trent couldn't be grounded, with him being in college. He did have his own laundry to do though.

I hadn't confessed to not having called the garage, nor had I told them that I'd met Zac and Rory. I doubted one of them had called the tow truck for me, it must have been one of the girls, who called for my assistance. Girl power and all that. I didn't know either of them, I hadn't seen them before, college girls hanging out at a party. I didn't know who to thank and how to go about it. They had obviously been leaving some party heading back to Boulder when they passed me, I imagine I must have given the wrong impression, poised at the edge of the lake. If _I_ had been in the Jeep, coming across me at almost midnight, I would have called for help too. I bet I looked like a sorry mess. I sighed in frustration. It bothered me that I couldn't say thanks to them.

"Drop, the longer dad sees you're being difficult, the longer I get shit." River slung his arm over my shoulder. "You're fine anyway. You called the tow truck. You saved yourself. Yay, you." I mock glared at him from under my lashes. "There's another party at Marcie's cousin's frat house tonight. I wanna go." River tugged me closer. "You know you wanna go too." I shrugged off his arm. "C'mon, why would you cockblock me?"

"You're incorrigible." I opened the door to the car. "Why are you still on Marcie? Isn't she out of your system yet?"

"This is why you're single Raine," River said to me as he started the car. "You have absolutely no skill set when it comes to the opposite sex." I shrugged as I looked out the window. It was a beautiful day and I leaned my head back as I looked at the clear blue sky. "I thought it was because I had two older brothers who threatened all the males in a five-mile radius of me," I replied as I slipped shades on.

"Well maybe that doesn't help." River rumbled out a laugh. "Are we going to go tonight?" I saw him glance at me.

"Where's Trent?"

River didn't hide his victorious grin. "Some other guy's having a huge party at his house. Stephen's frat party is low key compared to it."

"Wow," I mocked. "Sounds so appealing."

"It's perfect." River smiled over at me as we drove home. "Trent will be over there. With any luck Zac will be too. We can relax and enjoy ourselves. Marcie thinks he is with someone else now anyway."

I could tell him that he was, but then I would need to explain why I knew that he was. I wasn't giving that away, not after two weeks of watching River suffer for leaving me. A soft punch on my leg brought my attention back to him. "Ow," I protested.

"Party?" he insisted. "Some of the guys from practice are coming too. You may get lucky too."

I rolled my eyes behind my sunglasses. "Uh-huh and who have you deemed worthy of me, oh brother mine?"

"None of them, they're all dicks, but you can make them run after you all night." River flashed a grin at me.

"I'd rather not and I'm sure they would rather be doing better things."

"Yes, they'd rather be _doing_ you." He cast a glance at me again. "No one touches my sister. They know this, you know this."

"You're such a hypocrite, Riv." I shook my head but didn't argue with him. I wasn't interested in any of his friends from school. I wasn't a prude – I had kissed my fair share of boys – I just wasn't interested in having a relationship with them or going any further than a quick fumble in the dark. It didn't help that I knew in explicit detail what was said about girls who did let boys – like my brother – do more than fumble. I didn't want to be discussed in a living room while watching the game on Sunday. I didn't want to be recommended to a boy's friends for giving good head. If hiding behind my overprotective brothers saved me from that, I was quite happy to play the poor put upon little sister.

"Whatever," River continued. "They know what's good for them. If they can get past me, which they won't, no one is getting past Trent." River's grin was downright malicious when he looked at me.

_Both of them, hypocritical assholes_. River pulled into the driveway at home and we headed inside. He told me we were leaving in a couple of hours. I had a quick shower, then passed the time doing some homework. A while later he called out that we were leaving in a half hour. I got up off the bed and made my way to my closet. After a quick perusal, I pulled a purple ruffled hem skater dress off a hanger. I paired it with another pair of black silver buckle Maddens. I ran my fingers through my hair making sure my locks were still choppy and edgy. A touch of eyeliner and some pale lip gloss. I grabbed a light jacket from the back of a chair and a small purse and headed down to meet River. He was wearing dark jeans and a navy polo shirt, the collar turned up as always. His hair was still damp from a shower. River went to yell goodbye to our parents, but dad popped his head out from the study.

"Don't let your sister come home alone," dad reminded River.

"I know," River mumbled as he dragged me out the house.

The drive down to Boulder was relatively quiet; River had one of his playlists on and we sang along together. Our friends had left earlier, opting to eat at Pearl Mall. He told me Marcie and her friends were en route and would meet us there later. I said nothing to the _us._ I didn't do well with female friends. Girls usually only wanted to be friends to be close to my brothers and even if they weren't, I just got on better with boys. I may not be active in sports, but I could talk sports with the best of them.

We arrived at Step Hen's frat house, just after seven. I had been asked not to call him that, but I hadn't acknowledged the request. We made our way in, passed the resident hunk who was in the doorway. I was slightly impressed he remembered me. River wasn't but although he noted it, he said nothing, but I got a sharp tug of the hand when I looked over my shoulder to check out hunk's ass. Despite being early, there were still a few people there. Step Hen and River were soon chatting as I shrugged out of my jacket. I left my jacket in his room and got a tour of the house before the party began.

The basement held some couches, a TV, a couple of games consoles and, in one corner, a ping pong table which was currently being set up for beer pong. There were no bedrooms down here but there was a really large closet and a bathroom. Upstairs was another recreational room, kitchen, and some bedrooms. I noticed another side door which I pointed out to Step Hen who flushed, saying he had forgotten it. My last door watching exercise had been pointless. There were a further two floors of bedrooms.

In a short while, the place was filling up – River's teammates had arrived. River disappeared about ten minutes later which meant Marcie must have arrived too. I didn't see her or her friends. I was sitting in the basement playing Xbox with three of the football players from school.

"There is no way Raine is winning again!" Chase declared loudly, as I claimed the chequered flag in a Sonic racing game.

"Correction, Raine _has_ won again. Hudson for the win!" I stood and bowed. I got shoved and pushed but it was all in good fun. I stiffened as I felt hostile vibes coming my way. The basement was now crowded. There had been a continuous boisterous game of beer pong happening for about an hour now – the boys had been travelling back and forth between it and the Xbox but didn't seem to compute that this was why they were failing so badly at the game. I scanned the room again, trying to figure out why I had the unmistakable sense that someone was watching me. A small dance area had appeared beside the stairs, which made no sense at all logistically but that's where they were dancing. Nothing there. My eyes travelled over the beer pong table and over to the back door. The door that Step Hen had sworn wasn't used at all at parties. I scoffed. It was wide open.

There he was. Zac Hunter, leaning just inside the door, arms folded, talking to a girl, his head bent as he listened to her. His focus one hundred percent on me. I was so surprised at the level of intensity of his stare, I actually took a step back. Flushing, I looked away and hurriedly sat back down. Chase yelped as I practically sat on his lap.

"Jesus Raine, how about you give me a lap dance while you're there!" he laughed, as his arms circled me.

"How about you take your fucking hands off my sister?" I leapt to my feet as River appeared beside me, my eyes quickly darting to where Zac still stood shadowed in the doorway.

"I literally fell on him," I muttered as Chase spluttered a similar explanation.

River glared for a few more moments before turning his attention to the game on the screen, noticing I was on a winning streak. "No way am I letting you win. Controller!" he demanded as he held out a hand. There were answering hollers and trash talk as the guys made room for him and he laughed up at me as I still stood beside him.

"Who's up for defeat against the mighty Hudsons?" River shouted out cockily. My eyes darted back to the doorway, but Zac was gone, and I wondered briefly at the fleeting disappointment I felt.

"Well, I'm always up for that kind of challenge."

I froze at the voice. To his credit, my brother hesitated for a nanosecond and then turned. "Hunter?"

Zac ran his eyes over River derisively and spared me less of a glance. "Hudson."

" _You_ wanna play _Sonic_?" I blurted disbelieving.

Zac turned his full attention to me, and it was exactly as he had been at the doorway. The intensity was overwhelming; the hostility pouring out of him, was almost physical in its force. "Yes, I wanna play _Sonic_ ," He mocked me as he moved forward. He took the controller out of my numb fingers and sat down.

"Well then let's play." River didn't make room for him – Chase placed a new controller into my hand and nudged me towards the couch.

I slipped into the space beside Zac and the edge. I was pressed in like a sardine. Zac didn't move. I squirmed, my leg pressing against his. He still didn't move. He put the controller down and I thought he was going to give me space. Instead, he took his jacket off. River, stubborn as always, refused to give an inch. Zac simply leaned into me, his heavier frame forcing me out of the way. As Zac leaned behind me, putting his jacket down, a smirk danced around his lips.

"You keep pressing into me like this, Littlest Hudson and you'll give people the wrong idea," he said to me quietly.

I was on my feet within seconds. His low laugh annoyed me. River glared at me – I had given away points by moving.

"Raine. Sit." River's look was non-negotiable.

"Well if you two would move and let me sit, I will," I snapped back. They moved – about an inch. Chase caught my eye and motioned for me to sit. I rolled my eyes and slid in beside Zac again. I was absolutely no better off than before. "Wow, thanks guys, that's _so_ much better." My sarcasm was lost on both of them.

Few words were exchanged as they got ready to race, the light-heartedness from earlier had gone. The manoeuvrability I needed to play was limited with Zac pressed against me. I was acutely aware of his thigh pushing against me. Of his arm brushing mine when he moved. It was a wonder I managed to get around the course at all. River won. Zac declared best out of three. _Of course he did_. River accepted. Zac won the second time. By the time the third race started, I was a sweaty mess. I had to move. I wiggled out of the corner of the couch, my dress damp and sticking to me. I demanded Chase get me paper towels or something, he came back with a questionable towel. Throwing it on the floor, I knelt, I wasn't sitting on this floor and I couldn't race standing. Hesitating for a second, I threw caution to the wind and then pulled my boots off. River made some sarcastic comment about me being comfy. I told him to shut up. Placing my controller down, I rolled my shoulders and fluffed my hair.

"Jesus, being on that couch was hell," I muttered. I heard a snort and half turned, my eyes met and held Zac's. River coughed and I quickly turned back. I slayed them. Hudson for the win.

Zac accepted his defeat and moved off back to the rest of the party – I watched him exit via the back door. River was boisterous and being annoying. I donned my boots and made my excuses – I needed a break.

I ascended the stairs; some fresh air was needed. Plus, I was interested to see if hunk's ass was still on guard. "Hey there," I greeted as I approached him.

He watched me come out of the house. "Hey again." That same sexy smile greeted me.

"Following me?"

"Huh?" I looked passed hunk to discover Zac standing there. "Ugh, why are you here? I thought you left?"

"I did. I left where _you_ were." He shook his head as he looked away.

"Friends?" hunk asked.

"Besties," I quipped. Zac scowled into his cup. "So, I was wondering if there is another bathroom that isn't that health and safety hazard in there?" I smiled at my new friend.

He turned to me and I wasn't at all adverse to his checking me out. "Well there is, but I'm not supposed to leave the door." He leaned into the doorway.

"Oh." I frowned. "But does no one come and let you off?" I heard the muttered _pathetic_ behind me.

"Yeah, can you wait?" he asked, he genuinely was hot. I smiled in answer.

"Oh, for fuck's sake, just go now," Zac growled.

"Seriously?" hunk asked him. "You'll cover?"

"Yeah, I've had enough Hudson tonight," Zac answered bitterly.

"Shit, you're a Hudson?" Hunk looked at me in surprise.

"Raine." I held my hand out.

"Joel." He shook my hand. He glanced at Zac once, then keeping hold of my hand, he tugged me inside. "Come on Raine, let's go solve your problems." I glanced back once at Zac and faltered again at the level of bitterness with which he returned my glance.

# Chapter Four

Joel led me past his friends on the stairs and to the second level, to the rooms I had refused to see before. He opened the door to a clean bathroom and I beamed at him. When I was refreshed and cooled again, I reapplied some lip gloss and fluffed my hair. Joel was outside when I came out.

"Thank you."

"No bother, anything for a pretty girl." His grin was cheeky and I laughed as he caught my waist and pulled me into him. I went easily, my hands resting lightly on his forearms.

"Football?" I asked.

"Corner," he answered.

"Of course," I nodded.

"Of course." His smile was sly. "Not sure Trent is going to appreciate me touching his little sister." Joel's hand slipped further around my waist.

"I won't tell." I bit my lower lip.

His smile was downright wicked. "Is that so." His head dipped as my head tilted.

"Joel, thought you were on the door tonight?" a voice said from behind us. I felt his sigh instead of his lips. Joel pushed me back slightly.

"Yeah, just using the upstairs bathroom." We both turned to the new guy. He went to say something, but Joel grabbed my hand and we descended the stairs back to the front door. Zac was gone and another guy was there. He cast a look at Joel and went back inside to the party, muttering as he left. Just then River appeared. He took one look at my hand in Joel's and crossed his arms. I unclasped my hand from Joel's.

"River?" Joel guessed.

"This is my brother," I added lamely.

"Raine, a word?" With a roll of my eyes to Joel, I followed River back towards the basement.

"What are you doing?" River asked as we moved through the house.

"Having fun at a party?" I snapped. "Or trying to."

"With a random Joe?" He looked at me over his shoulder.

"Joel," I corrected.

"What?"

"His name is Joel." I giggled.

"Have you been drinking?" River pulled up short and looked at me.

"No Riv. I haven't been drinking. And I haven't been kissing anyone. I'm not having any fun at all." I glared. "Happy now?"

"What the hell's wrong with you lately?" he snapped at me.

"Nothing, why don't you go back to the room like the douche you are and get laid again." I shouldered past my brother and descended the stairs. Seeing that most of our friends were still over by the TV playing video games, having fun, I manoeuvred through the dancers and headed to the beer pong table. I didn't really want to participate but felt my temper dissipating as I watched the antics of those playing.

I noticed River come back down, he stood on the bottom step and surveyed the room. I knew when he spotted me. I didn't look at him. A few minutes later, Chase was beside me. River was gone. Probably to do exactly what I'd suggested. Chase wasn't an issue, River forgot Chase was _my_ friend too. A few minutes later I was heading back upstairs, but to my disappointment, Joel was no longer at the door. I wandered through the main floor of the house and came across a quieter part of the party. Joel was here. His smile was wide when he saw me. Chase trailed me uncertainly.

"Hey, you escaped?" He laughed when he saw me.

"Like Houdini," I answered and glanced over my shoulder when I saw Joel look at Chase. "Well, I still have some chains."

Joel laughed. He extended his hand to Chase and introduced himself, asking if he was a boyfriend. The fact that Chase almost swallowed his tongue in his haste to deny this, was answer enough. I didn't like the attention, but Joel had no problem with the fact I was Trent's sister. I slipped into the conversation easily, and Joel slipped his arm around me easily too. I didn't notice the time passing, but pretty soon, even Chase had relaxed and was talking to a pretty girl. Someone suggested moving down to the beer pong table and the general consensus was they had all been sensible enough for a Friday night.

Once again, I had my hand in Joel's and was completely comfortable. The music was louder now downstairs, with more people dancing. It was hard to tell where beer pong started and dancing stopped. I tried to spot River. He was still missing. I caught sight of Zac though. I looked away, then looked back sharply when I noticed he was talking to Step Hen. He caught me looking, his frown was not friendly. _Shit._ Unless I was misreading the signs, the cousin had just ratted out River. I tried to get Chase's attention without being too obvious about it, but he was all caught up in a blonde ponytail and perky boobs. I glanced back as Zac started making his way over. I looked up quickly at Joel, but he was talking to his friend and at the end of the day, what good was he going to be really?

_Dammit._ I was alone.

Nothing More's 'Go To War' began to play and I genuinely could have laughed out loud at the irony. Zac was greeted by many of the people I was with. Wonderful, they were all friends. I was beginning to feel claustrophobic. He smiled at them, he laughed with them, his eyes never moved from me. The song boomed around me as he manoeuvred his way towards me. Zac was in front of me. His hand brushed my arm and I felt like I had been electrocuted.

"A word Hudson?" he murmured. His grip was like a vice.

"Um..." My throat was dry like sandpaper.

"Now." He tugged. Like the night on the shore of the lake, his grip was steady as I stumbled. My loose hold on Joel's hand was lost and I was suddenly being pulled through the throng of people. The large closet from my earlier tour was suddenly in front of me. Zac opened the door fractionally and then I was inside. He instantly let go of me and I turned to look at him.

_Jesus._ The intensity of the stare was overwhelming. As before, I took a step back and instantly hated myself for the show of weakness.

"Marcie?" He spat the name like a curse.

"Name's Raine." _Shut up._

"Your brother is sleeping with Marcie?" he continued like I hadn't spoken.

"I don't think they sleep to be brutally honest." _Jesus Raine, what is wrong with you?_

He took a step forward. I took a step back. His smirk was smug. "How long?" Zac took another step towards me. I took another step back. I hit a wall. Literally.

"We're not that kind of family." _You have to shut up._

Zac's eyes narrowed. He took another step towards me. I had nowhere to go. "You're uncomfortably close to your brothers. It wouldn't surprise me, _at all_ , if you _were_ that kind of family."

"Don't be a dick." To my horror, my voice was soft and throaty.

Now he was in front of me. Right in front of me. His hands came up on either side of me. Caging me in. "How long has he been seeing Marcie?" Zac leaned into me. I hadn't noticed before that he had golden flecks in his green eyes. I had never had any reason to be this close to him. His eyelashes were thick and dark. His skin bronze from the sun.

"Hudson?" His voice was low but firm.

"Can you step back? I don't think you need to be this close to me," I muttered as I looked away. Zac Hunter shouldn't be making my pulse race. It was just the situation I was reacting to. That was it. It wasn't _him_. Physically. The bastard stepped closer. Now there was an inch between us. If that. His hand cupped my jaw, forcing me to look at him. Whatever had my pulse racing was doused instantly when I saw the coldness in his eyes.

"How long has your brother been seeing Marcie?" he asked me again.

"A few months? I don't know exactly," I snapped. Bringing both hands up, I pushed him away from me. He stumbled, I realised it was more in shock from the words than the force of my push. He ran his hand through his hair. "Jesus, she must be something special in bed if you're this heartbroken." I scoffed as I crossed my arms angrily. What the hell was this girl's magic power?

"You don't know what you're talking about," he muttered. He stood there frozen. Actually, he looked like he'd seen a ghost.

I moved away from the wall and walked over to him. "Are you okay?" I touched his arm lightly. "Hey, I'm sorry if she broke your heart or something."

His eyes flashed to mine in fury. "I don't need your sympathy. She didn't break my heart."

He grabbed my hand to toss it away. Just then the door opened. With a wicked grin, he pulled me into him and crushed his lips against mine. The kiss was bruising, the kiss was slightly painful. The kiss was exhilarating. His tongue licked my bottom lip before he nipped it, hard. He pushed me away roughly. "Jesus! I told you, I'm not interested in you Hudson. You're making a fool of yourself." No one could see his face. They could all see mine. They all saw me lick my bottom lip, not realising it was to soothe the bite.

He winked. Shaking his head, he turned, and with his head held high, he walked past my open-mouthed brother and our friends back into the party.

_That freaking bastard._

"What the actual fuck Raine!" River exploded.

I was lying on my bed upside down. My legs were against my headboard, my head dangling off the side, my headphones on. Which is how I knew when the dark brown boots were suddenly eye level, that Trent was home. I repressed the sigh. River hadn't spoken to me since Friday night when Zac had left me in a rather awkward position in a closet. He hadn't been willing to listen. The drive home had been silent because he had left with Chase. I swung my legs off the bed and ended up in a heap on the floor. Trent watched me impassively.

"Are you going to listen, or have you already judged?" I asked as I stood.

"I'm listening." He sat at my desk.

"Where's the dick?"

Trent fought his smile. "Sent him out. He's being unreasonably pigheaded." I snorted. River was being completely hypocritical. "You know Joel asked about you." Trent cast me a long side look as he picked up one of the notebooks.

"He was nice." I blushed.

"Okay, Rainey. I'm not Riv. I don't do this girl stuff. Tell me as briefly as possible, why you were in a closet making out with Zac Hunter."

"I wasn't," I protested.

"Cliff notes only." Trent leaned back as he kicked off his boots. Sighing as I sat on the bed, I told him. Trent was staring. He was also silent. I started pacing. "How long?" he demanded finally.

"Oh my God – why does everyone keep asking me this?" I cried as I threw my hands in the air.

"Raine! How long has the idiot been seeing her?" Trent was on his feet now.

"I don't know. A few months." I shrugged. "Why?"

"Because," said Trent, suddenly very serious. "Marcie got pregnant when Zac was on vacation. He knew it wasn't his and she was cheating on him. _That's_ why he broke up with her."

"Oh shit." I stared at Trent, dumbfounded.

"Yeah, and Marcie isn't pregnant anymore." Just then the front door opened, and we heard River come up the stairs.

"So, have you sorted her out?" he asked as he came into the room.

Without missing a beat, Trent punched him.

# Chapter Five

River glared at Trent who was glaring back. "You knocked up Marcie Hannigan?" Trent bellowed at him. He lunged forward and caught River by the collar. "Are you fucking stupid?"

"Wait!" River struggled out of Trent's hold. "What?" He held his hand up, warding off our brother as he rubbed his jaw.

I had leapt off the bed and was now holding Trent's arm. He shrugged me off as he took a step toward River.

"What the hell are you talking about?" River asked him. Trent paused.

"Marcie was pregnant during summer break." Trent was watching him carefully.

"No, she fucking wasn't." River snorted, he glanced at me, then back at Trent. He shook his head. "No. Who told you this?" He glanced at me in confusion. "Raine?"

"Trent just told me before you came in. That's why she and Zac broke up. She cheated on him." I looked between my two brothers. "So... you're not the one who got her pregnant when he was on vacation?"

"What?" River sat down at the edge of my bed. "No!" He ran his hand over his face. "Okay, someone start at the beginning and then tell me how this explains Drop in a closet with Hunter."

I glared at him. Was that seriously important at the moment? Trent was sitting down too, the two of them had their heads bent and began talking quietly.

"Hunter went on vacation at the end of June, I remember because I had just lost to him in the 200-meter race the week before. He was being a humble winner and it was pissing me off." Trent muttered. I nodded. It had been a Loveland Family Fun Run event.

"That's right, he was quite gracious," I commented. Both of my brothers glared at me. "Jesus, sense the sarcasm," I snapped. It was a quick recovery; in truth Zac _had_ been a humble winner.

"I started seeing Marcie towards the end of July, beginning of August," River commented.

"So, she was already knocked up by then?" Trent muttered as he watched our brother worriedly.

River shook his head. "I don't know. She never mentioned she was pregnant."

I choked on a laugh. "Well, why would she? Did you wrap your toy up properly?"

"Not now Raine." River snapped at me as he started pacing the room. "I can't believe this." He stopped in the middle of my room and looked at us both.

"Is she still pregnant?" he asked Trent.

Trent sighed and leaned back in my desk chair. "I don't think so. I heard she got rid of it." He shrugged. "I wasn't really paying attention."

"I told you she was a skank," I muttered. River looked at me. I shrugged.

"Could we not do this?" He looked kind of miserable, but he'd been horrible to me about Zac and I was feeling slightly vindicated by his girlfriend's actions.

"Dunno Riv, I'm feeling like you maybe deserve it." I leaned back on my bed as I shared a look with Trent.

"Aw come on. Seriously?" He shook his head and sat down on the bed again in defeat. "So, what about Friday? One minute you're with the Corner of the Buffs, next you're making out with Hunter?"

I kicked at him. "You have no family loyalty at all. You're a pig." He grinned but dodged my follow-up kick. "I told Trent what happened. Zac dragged me into the closet because Step Hen told him you were hooking up with skanky-pants." River groaned. "Zac wanted to know how long you'd been seeing her for. Of course, _now_ I know why." I rolled my eyes. "I thought the jerk was heartbroken. I was being nice, but he obviously knew the door was going to open, no doubt had Step Hen on his side. _He_ kissed me, said what he did, then walked out of there making it look like I was a desperate slut." I glared at River. "Which, by the way, _you_ bought. Thanks for that."

"Oh."

"Yeah 'oh'," I answered.

"So, Hunter thinks I knocked up his ex while he was on vacation?" River said while looking at Trent. The two of them exchanged a long look.

"I'll sort it out," Trent answered with a sigh.

"How?" I asked.

"I'll tell him the truth." Trent looked at me and flashed a grin.

"But he hates you," I blurted.

"Yeah, he does, but we don't do this shit. I'll fix it." Trent stood. He cuffed River around the back of the head. "You, stay away from Marcie. That was just stupid, even without the other drama. We don't do this kind of crap. There are plenty of girls out there to get your dick wet with." He turned to me. "You – stay away from my teammates, all teammates. Actually, all boys. You don't need to be in any closets. Understood?"

"I don't even see how that's remotely fair," I protested. "River gets told to go forth and conquer and I get told to be celibate?"

"Just do it Raine, you're too good for these guys." He ruffled my hair. "Guys are scum, we told you a long time ago. Remember?"

"But..."

Trent leaned down and kissed my head. "Just do as you're told for once, don't make me tell dad."

"That's evil." I jerked away from him.

"But no less true." He hit River's shoulder as he picked up his boots, jogged down the stairs and left.

River looked at me. "I'm sorry."

I shrugged.

"Drop."

"Nope." I looked away.

"Drop, don't be mean." He came and sat beside me on the bed.

I turned away.

"Raindrop." He nudged me. "Come on, you know you can't be mad at me for long."

"I'm super duper mad," I mumbled.

He slung his arm over my shoulders and pulled me into him. "I'll buy pizza."

"Won't work."

"I'll let you put pineapple on it," he offered.

"Really?" I looked at him hopefully.

River laughed victoriously and jumped off the bed. "Come on, let's get pizza." He held his hand out.

"Can we talk shit about your ex-girlfriend?" I asked.

"You're completely heartless." He rolled his eyes. "Yes, you can say mean horrible things about Marcie, irrespective of the fact I may be upset about this or anything."

I grabbed his hand and let him pull me up. "In that case, let's go."

We sat together in a booth and I watched as my brother half-heartedly ate his food. When I say half-heartedly, he'd eaten all of his and had eaten three slices of my half. But he had _chewed_ as opposed to his normal swallow-the-slices whole approach. Yes, River was in bad shape.

"You really like her?" I murmured as I took a sip of my soda.

He shrugged. "I probably shouldn't be hanging out with her. Trent's right," I cleared my throat. "Okay, fine," he laughed. "You're also right. I shouldn't have been there. We have a thing with Hunter, but it isn't that." He shrugged.

"That wasn't why you were there though?" I pushed my pizza away. I was done.

"No, I genuinely thought she was nice." He picked pineapple off my slice and ate it.

"Where do you put all the food?" I wondered as he devoured the slice.

"I'm a growing boy. Need carbs for training." River reached over and finished my soda.

"That was mine."

"Yeah, but you never finish a whole one. You ready for home?" He stood.

"Netflix?" I suggested as I scooted out of the booth.

"Yeah, but I'm not watching that Teenwolf series again," he said as he pulled his wallet out.

"But Stiles is hysterical. How can you not love his humour?" I laughed as I straightened my skirt.

"No, you've seen every episode, it's no fun listening to you quote it. I say horror." I went to protest. "I'll buy you ice cream."

"Ugh, you know exactly how to get me to comply," I muttered as I headed to the car.

"Drop, we can walk to get ice cream. Come on."

"But..." I pointed at the car and then to my feet.

"Walk. You're appallingly lazy. We're going to have to get you exercising." River patted my flat stomach. "I see a food baby growing," he joked.

Given the nature of our earlier conversation, we both stopped laughing and he lost his easy grin. I hooked my arm through his. "Come on, I'll let you buy me two scoops since I'm walking them off anyway." I got a scoop of chocolate and a scoop of mint choc chip in a cup. River went for plain vanilla. We both knew he would eat mine. I was pretending to be in denial. He wasn't. "It's such a beautiful evening," I murmured as we headed back to the car at The Promenade Shops.

"Yeah."

"Are you going to mope?" I asked as I licked my spoon.

"I might." He shrugged.

My steps slowed as we rounded the corner. "Well look sharp, because we have company." River looked up and spotted Zac, Rory and a few others parked.

"Littlest Hudson," Rory greeted me as we approached. His eyes ran over me appreciatively. "Hudson." His tone was flat as he looked at River.

"I don't like the way you look at my sister," River commented. I bit back the sigh. _Seriously. This is how he was going to do this?_

"Free country and your sister is mighty fine." Rory winked at me.

I rolled my eyes at him in exasperation. Rory was alright, he had never given me any bother. He was simply doing this to push River's buttons. "Thank you, Rory, I will sleep better tonight with that _ringing_ endorsement." I subtly nudged River as I dipped into my ice cream. What we needed to do was act like they weren't bothering us.

Rory grinned at me. "I've been meaning to ask," he said. "Everything work out alright that night at the lake?"

_Oh, you bastard._ "I did fine, thanks." I licked ice cream from my spoon. River didn't react, he would question me later. I might have to pay for that omission.

"So, you knock up any more of my exes?" Zac asked softly, his attention fully on River.

I choked on my ice cream. Not even subtly. I spat out chocolate ice cream in a very unladylike, undignified manner. River cursed as he thumped me on the back. "Okay, I think you got me," I wheezed, wiping my eyes, moving away from him. Rory was decked against his car, laughing. Several of their friends were also laughing way too hard at my expense. I looked at Zac. He wasn't laughing. His eyes were hard. His face impassive, as he stared at River. Waiting.

"It wasn't me," River said quietly. He stood tall and proud.

Zac's eyes were intent on my brother's as he watched him. Without a word, he turned and got into his Jeep. His pack of hyenas followed into their own cars or joined him in his. Zac's eyes flicked to mine as he drove out of the parking lot, the blank stare giving nothing away. Within minutes they were gone.

"Well, that wasn't awkward at all," I muttered. River snorted as he headed to the car. I dumped my remaining ice cream.

# Chapter Six

_O ne week later..._

River let Marcie down gently in true boy style. He ghosted her. Trent had told Zac that it wasn't River, despite whatever shit they'd had between them, and Zac had believed it. I didn't understand this at all, were they were like frenemies... or something? River said it was because, despite everything, they were teammates. You had to trust your teammates, even if you didn't like them. I had always understood that boys were weird. With two older brothers, I had established a long time ago that weirdness was in their DNA. What ever fuckery happened between the three of them with the Marcie thing, it was simply beyond my level of boy comprehension.

I had managed to wiggle out of Rory outing me to River and told him I had seen them at the lake, but the tow truck was already on the way. River had grunted and let it go. It was a small white lie; I couldn't burn in hell for a white lie... could I? I was wandering through Pearl Mall in Boulder; Trent had promised me dinner if I was a good sister and bought mom's birthday present for him, _again._ He was twenty years old. The fact that he still couldn't buy his mom a birthday present was only being forgiven because he was also buying me cheesecake later. Coming out of the bespoke jewellery shop, I walked into a hard body. I stumbled and for the third time in as many weeks, Zac Hunter's hand steadied me.

"Jesus, you're a walking hazard," he muttered.

"Um, thanks?"

He looked at me and let go of my arm. Sighing in frustration, he walked past me and continued on his way. _Well, okay then._ Twenty minutes later I was sitting in a sushi place, having ordered a delicious assortment of rolls.

"What did you get me and what do I owe?" Trent asked as he drank his water.

I dug out the necklace I had picked up for him. Opening it, I took off the tissue paper. "I got you this and you owe me forty dollars."

"Nice. What's River getting her?"

"You didn't even look." I glared at him.

"I did look. Silver chain, big blue stone thing with silver. Very nice, very mom." Trent smirked at me. "What did River buy?"

"I don't know." I put the necklace away in my purse.

"Tell him he owes you twenty dollars." He handed me twenty.

"You're both dicks." I took the twenty and shoved it in my wallet.

Trent laughed and leaned back as the server brought our food. He was quiet as he ate, but he kept looking at me. After ten minutes, I'd finally had enough. "What?" I snapped.

"Joel keeps asking me about you." He finished his food. "It's beginning to annoy me." He ate my last California roll.

"Do you know you and Riv always need to eat my food?" I protested as I protected my last roll from wandering hands.

"No, we don't. You imagine things." Trent grinned as he drank my water.

"You both also always finish my drinks," I protested as I snatched my glass back.

He sneaked my last roll and took a bite. "Ugh. I can't even." I shook my head. "You're both bullies."

"Sure we are." Trent laughed. "Anyway, Joel. He's pissing me off. River said nothing happened. Why is he annoying me?"

I stuffed the last of the roll in my mouth before he could finish it. Looking at him wide eyed, I pointed at my mouth and shrugged. Trent folded his arms and looked decidedly unimpressed. "I don't know, he was cute. I liked him," I said as I swallowed.

"Didn't I tell you to stay away from my teammates?" Trent frowned.

"Yes, but I haven't seen anyone since _last week_ when we had that conversation." I rolled my eyes as I looked for more food. He'd eaten it all. Monster.

"There's a party at that frat on Friday." I looked at him hopefully, as he continued. "You can go. But you are to make it clear to Joel you aren't interested."

"How come you tell River to sleep with whoever, but I have to be in an imaginary nunnery?"

"Don't sulk. It doesn't suit you." Trent laid money on the table. "Come on, I'm buying you cheesecake, you should be happy."

"That does help," I admitted.

"River also mentioned you wanted to start running with him in the morning?" my brother said over his shoulder as walked out of the restaurant.

I almost fell over my feet. "No," I caught Trent's arm. "I would never _ever_ suggest something so ridiculous."

"You have the worst exercise programme I have ever seen and a vicious sweet tooth. I'm surprised you're not a lot softer than you are," Trent commented.

"You saying I'm a lard ass?" I protested. "What if I am? Shouldn't you love me anyway?"

"I would love you, but only if you love and are happy within yourself Raine."

"Oh my God, what magazine did you read that in?" I groaned.

"Think it was Cosmo?" He laughed as we walked into the cheesecake shop. "I can't remember, was beside some girl's bed last week."

"You're worse than Riv," I scolded. "And for that, I'm ordering double chocolate... with cream."

"Of course you are." He sighed in defeat.

"So, Friday, I get to party at Step Hen's again?" I said through a mouthful of cheesecake.

"It's childish that you call him Step Hen." Trent frowned, then he grinned at me. "But he's a complete dick, so yeah, keep doing it." I laughed out loud. "Yes, you get to party. But you're telling Joel you're not interested. I will be there this time and I will be watching. No teammates. Please."

"Okay." I smiled at him. He was such a good brother. Sometimes. "And River?"

"I have a plan to get him over Marcie." Trent smiled.

"You're going to get him under someone else, aren't you. Literally."

"It's like we're related or something, Raine. You can read my mind." Trent smiled at me as he scooped some of my delicious goodness.

"This is exactly why I am single," I muttered, shaking my head.

Friday arrived and River and I drove to Boulder in good spirits. I was wearing a black skater dress with a small floral print, thin spaghetti strap, and low back. Remembering how hot the basement had been, I didn't relish another sticky evening. I had the same black Madden ankle boots on. My hair was messily styled, one side tucked behind my ear.

"You look good." River looked at me.

"Thanks." I smiled. He was in dark jeans and a black button down. "Looking good yourself."

"Yeah, Trent said I needed to get back on the horse." He shifted in the driver seat. "He didn't mention anything about you, however."

"What, baby sis doesn't get to go for a ride?" I mocked.

"Jesus, Drop." River glared at me.

"Relax." I laughed. "That basement was suffocating last time; this dress is breathable. That's all."

"The dress is breathable because you're hardly wearing anything," River muttered.

"Shut up. My front's covered. It's mid-thigh. Dad saw it and said nothing." I argued. I didn't point out that Dad hadn't seen the back.

"Whatever. Put some Linkin Park on." He handed me his phone, which meant that the rest of the drive was painless. We had left Loveland later this time, so the house was fuller when we arrived. River texted Trent, who came outside and led us past a different hunk. I was slightly disappointed that Joel wasn't there. However, I soon saw him and then the disappointment was heavier when I saw he had his arm wrapped around a pretty blonde.

"What are you wearing?" Trent asked me.

"A dress," I answered and immediately headed down to the basement.

The set-up was the same – beer pong, games consoles, and this time the dancing was more towards the beer pong, clear of the stairs. The back door was open again; I noted that there was no guard – and more importantly – no Zac. I headed over to the games console. Some of our friends were there already and I slipped into easy conversation. It was a different game this time. Zombie killing. I could kill zombies tonight no problem at all. I played a few games, won some, lost some. Everything is so simple in the world of zombies. A few girls were dancing and asked if I wanted to join them. I did and soon was dancing in the middle of the floor. The night passed easily, I was actually having fun.

As before, the vibe hit me long before I realised that he was in the room. This time I knew to look at the back door and there he stood again, leaning against the wall, talking to a girl. His white t-shirt stood out against the dull light, his blue jeans snug in all the right places. He looked good. I shouldn't have noticed that, but I did. His arms were folded, head bent, seemingly listening to what she was saying though his focus was entirely on me. Tonight, I didn't care.

I had seen my brothers checking on me throughout the night. One would come down the stairs, duck his head, make sure I was where they wanted me to be, then they would retreat. I was fed up with their double standards. So, when I saw Zac Hunter staring at me with resentment tonight, I didn't blush, I didn't falter, I didn't look away. I met his stare. I welcomed it. In fact, I _encouraged_ it. I bit my lip, exactly where he had bitten me. His eyes narrowed. I smirked at him. He stood straighter. I tilted my head slightly in question. This time, he took the step – but it was forward. _Towards_ me. Surprised, I stopped dancing. We both stood motionless in a room full of moving people. My tongue darted out to wet my lip. His eyes followed the movement and darted back to mine. He raised an eyebrow. _Oh, he was one of those_.

Suddenly, I shook my head and backed away, then laughing softly at the preposterousness of the whole situation, I climbed the stairs to find my brothers. They weren't on the main floor. Or if they were, I couldn't find them. I glanced at the stairs to the upper levels. I did need to pee. I slipped past the guard and up the stairs to the bathroom Joel had taken me to the week before. I locked the door behind me. I laughed at my appearance – my face was flushed, my eyes bright. Was that the night, the heat, or Zac? I didn't want to dwell on the possibility of it being the latter.

What on earth had I been doing downstairs? _Flirting_? With Zac Hunter? Impossible. Anyway, it couldn't be flirting if I didn't actually speak, could it? I washed my hands and pressed my now cold hands to my forehead. I tipped my head upside down and shook my hair. Happy with the result, I tucked one side behind my ear again and headed out of the bathroom. As I passed a bedroom, a strong firm hand yanked me inside. I yelped but the sound was lost as the door closed and a hand covered my mouth.

"What were you doing downstairs?"

I relaxed. I shrugged out of Zac's hold. "Creepy much?" I protested. "Freaking heck Zac, I thought you would have more skills." I looked around – a bedside light was on in what seemed to be a completely unremarkable room. "Whose room is this?" I asked as I looked at him.

"I don't know, or care." He prowled towards me. I forced myself to stand firm. "I care about what you were doing downstairs?"

"Dancing." I moved slightly towards the door. He caught my wrist. I looked at his hand and looked up at him. He reached past me slowly and then, still watching me, he flicked the lock on the door. "Why did you do that?" I was staring at the lock, half twisted away from him, acutely conscious of the fact he was still holding my wrist.

"I asked you a question, Littlest Hudson."

"My name is Raine." My voice was no more than a whisper now. He must be able to hear my heart beating. It was loud. It was deafening.

"I know your name." He took a step closer to me. I turned to look at him and realised I'd made the wrong move, because now I was flush against him and I had nowhere to go. Really, my heartbeat, could he feel that? The pounding? I looked up at Zac as he looked down at me. His hand trailed up my arm to my shoulder, he tucked my hair behind my ear. "When you were dancing. Why did you challenge me like that?" he asked me softly.

"Did I?"

"Littlest Hudson, you've always been the most honest one. Don't ruin that now." His eyes were mocking me.

"Why did you lock the door, Zac?" I asked again. I was so breathless. This was embarrassing. He was affecting me so badly. He stood as cool as a cucumber in front of me, whereas, I looked and sounded like I had run a marathon.

"So I could do this." Then he was kissing me. Oh God, his mouth was like velvet, his tongue was demanding, his hands were in my hair, then his hand trailed down my bare back and cupped my ass. My hands were on his shoulders, fisting his t-shirt. Both his hands were on my ass now, he stooped slightly, my legs wrapped around him as he carried me to the bed. My hands were now in his hair, twisting, pulling, demanding more. We dropped down together, I suddenly didn't care whose room I was in, I was only interested in getting my hands under Zac's t-shirt. He helped me pull the t-shirt off over his head and then he was kissing down my neck. I arched into him and I heard him groan in appreciation as I felt his hard length pressing into me. He pulled the strap of my dress, baring my shoulder, slipping it down over my arm, while his other hand travelled up my dress to my underwear. A soft caress over the front of my panties had me jerking against him. My eyes flew open as I looked at him, my hands stilled on his shoulders. "You okay there?" he asked me huskily. His kisses slowed across my chest as he slowly peeled my dress down.

"Yeah, you just took me by surprise," I murmured.

"Okay." He didn't stop uncovering my breasts, then he lightly licked a nipple. I had never been bare to a boy before. My embarrassment was soon gone as he worked something like magic with his tongue. His other hand moved to my hip but when I relaxed again, I felt the subtlest of touches against the front of my panties again.

"Zac," I murmured.

"Yeah, I got you." He moved to my other breast. _Dear lord, what was he doing to me?_ A stronger caress this time and my ass moved off the bed of its own accord.

"Jesus," I muttered. I pushed at his shoulders, I needed to breathe. This was too much.

"Not today I'm not." His mouth covered mine. Both his hands were in my hair again, this was safe. This, I didn't mind at all. My legs curled around his hips. His belt dug into my skin. Reaching down I tugged it open, he grunted in appreciation. I felt the hardness of him straining against his jeans. Tentatively, I unzipped him and then reached in, I caressed him. Once, twice, three times. He hissed into my neck and I faltered.

"Don't stop. Fuck, don't stop." He moaned into my ear. Encouraged, I gripped him slightly harder and moved my hand. His hips started to move in rhythm, his kisses became more urgent. I kissed him back. After a while, my wrist began to ache, but he was totally into it, so I went with it. "I'm going to cum," he panted. I looked into his eyes. He was so intense; it took my breath away. My smile was victorious as I squeezed slightly harder. He groaned my name, my _actual_ name, as he came in my hand, his head dropping onto the pillow. I lay under him, my hand sticky, my legs wrapped around him. The handle turned on the door. I froze.

"Who the fuck is in there?" someone shouted from outside.

"Ah shit," Zac muttered. He pushed himself off me and adjusted himself, then he was bending down to put his t-shirt on. I was still lying on the bed but sat up and tried to adjust my dress with one hand. He looked at me and then his eyes ran over me hungrily, his gaze flashing with something fleeting before he smirked at me. "I'm almost sorry to do this to you, Littlest Hudson. Think quick." Then he opened the door and walked out.

# Chapter Seven

It was Wednesday and I was staring out the window as my History teacher droned on about the Civil War. I thought back to Friday night and my rather hasty and embarrassing departure from a random stranger's bedroom. I had dived into the bathroom across the hall, keeping my face averted the whole time, thanking anyone above that it was empty. I had washed my hands vigorously, furious at myself for getting played by Zac freaking Hunter. _Again._ I had taken a while to calm down, both in temper and libido. My racing heart had still been a result of how he affected me. Even now, I could vividly remember the touch of him on my skin, the hardness of him in my hand.

Thankfully, neither of my brothers had noticed my departure had been with Zac, they had noticed I was gone but thought I was merely in the upstairs bathroom. Which I totally had been. Technically, I hadn't lied. I was dreading ever seeing his smug smarmy face again. That was twice now I had fallen for his tricks. There wouldn't be a third time. The fact that he had touched me more intimately than anyone else ever had – it was humiliating. It made my skin burn to think that I had let him see me like that. The final bell rang and I packed my books away. I headed to my locker where River was waiting. I wasn't about to confess to my brother what I had been doing on Friday night, or who I had been doing it with.

"Why are you still sad looking?" River asked as we headed to the Camry.

"Am I sad?" I questioned, slightly alarmed that he had noticed.

"Are you upset about the birthday present? I paid you the money."

I rolled my eyes. Mom had loved her present from her boys and gushed about it all day. The necklace that had taken about ten minutes to buy had been the highlight present. "It's fine, I told you." I looked out the window.

"Hey, this will cheer you up." River laughed. I made some noncommittal noise that encouraged him. "So, on Friday, some guy in the Frat house can't get into his room." My heart rate slowed right down. "He's banging on the door, and the next thing, out walks Hunter, all messed up, straightening his clothes and some skank's on the bed, half naked, covered in his ji..." River coughed, "well you know, and got her clothes half-off and runs past the guy and down the stairs into the party." River cracked up.

"What?" I snapped. "Why is this a funny story?"

River rolled his eyes at me. "Are you serious? This is freaking hilarious!"

"For who?" I turned and looked at him. He scowled at me. "No seriously, tell me who you're laughing at? Zac? What did he do that's funny?"

"Well, he..." River faltered.

"Uh-huh. And the girl? Why is she funny? She was half undressed, you said? And he walked out and left her? Exposed like that? You think that's funny?" My eyes were narrowed to slits. "If that was me, would you be laughing?"

River's whole face changed. "You would never be in that situation and I sure as hell wouldn't be laughing."

"Then why the _fuck_ are you laughing now?" I slammed back into my seat and stared out the window. I _was_ in that situation. My eyes filled with tears. I never swore. Well, not the 'f' word. I was so angry. Angry at myself, angry at Zac, angry at stupid boys thinking they had every right to treat girls like this. Then laugh about it. We got home and I stormed into the house, fed up with all thing's boys. Mom hollered at me to help with dinner and I ignored her. I locked my door, something I hardly ever did but I didn't want to see anyone. I lay on my bed and stared at my ceiling. I officially hated Zac Hunter.

"You're not coming?" River was staring at me.

"I told you already, no." I stared at the TV. I was watching Teenwolf.

"It's a college party."

"It's the same party we've been to before. It's boring." I ate some popcorn.

"Why are you being weirder than usual?" River demanded.

"It's an art form I haven't yet mastered, I need more practice," I replied.

"I bet Trent sends me home," River muttered.

"Oh for the love of God, grow a pair," I snapped. "He knows I'm not going. What is wrong with you?" I looked at him.

"You'd tell me if there was something wrong?" River asked me quietly, he was watching me closely now.

"Of course." I smiled at him, he was my brother after all and I knew he loved me. "I love you, go break someone's heart."

"For you? Anything." He headed to the front door.

"Just wrap your junk up!" I yelled after him. His laughter was infectious as he left.

Three hours later and I knew I shouldn't have watched two horror movies by myself. In the dark. That was stupid. Now the slightest creak and I was ready to bolt out of the house. The thought occurred to me that I should get the tyre iron from the car.

_You don't have the tyre iron – you threw it in Central Lake reservoir remember?_ Also, River had the car. __ Mom left her SUV. I could drive to the lake and get it. _Yes, Raine, because the tyre iron is just sitting at the edge of the lake waiting for you._ I chewed a nail. _What if it was though?_ Something rustled. _Okay, that's your own foot on a paper you dropped earlier_. I laughed and glanced at the clock. It was after eleven. _This is not rational behaviour._

I ran upstairs and pulled on cut off shorts and a loose t-shirt. My pyjama shorts and sleep shirt were tossed on the bed. I slipped on an old pair of Converse, as I pulled my hair back into the shortest ponytail known to ponytails. Five minutes later I was in mom's SUV heading to the edge of Loveland. Once again, I parked in the parking lot and with absolutely no confidence I walked to the edge of the lake. I pulled off my shoes and dipped my toe in. It was just as cold as it had been last time.

"It's not as bad you think," I pep talked myself. I put my foot in, it was worse. "Not that cold, come on, in you go." When I was fully submerged with my right foot, it took twice as long to encourage my left foot to follow. I waded out a little, mumbling the whole time. "So cold, so cold. Why are you doing this? This is crazy," I muttered as I splashed around trying to feel for the tyre iron.

"I genuinely have to admit – I agree that this is crazy."

I landed flat on my ass in the lake. For about three seconds, before the impact of the cold water propelled me out so fast, I was on the embankment screeching, soaking wet. "What the hell is wrong with you?" I swiped at Zac as he stood there, hiding his laughter behind his hand. "Why do you _constantly_ creep up on me?"

"I spoke to you several times, but your entirely fascinating dialogue with yourself was obviously more interesting." He grinned at me. He held out his hand. "Come on, I have something for you."

"Don't touch me." I walked past him. "You have nothing that I am interested in."

"Hudson!" he called. I ignored him. "Hudson!" he yelled it louder.

"What!" I snapped as I turned.

"Shoes?" He held my Converse up to me. His eyes dancing with laughter.

Grumbling, I made my way back to him. He held them out of reach. I stretched for them, his grin grew. "Why?" I asked in despair.

"Because watching you struggle makes me happy." His grin didn't falter.

"That's twisted."

"I know." His grin softened.

I reached for my shoes and he lifted them higher. "Shoes for a kiss?"

I stopped reaching. "No," I whispered.

"Yes." He dipped his head and his lips brushed mine. My shoes thumped down beside me on the grass.

"You don't play fair," I muttered as I dried my feet on the grass.

"I know." Zac watched me as I watched him.

"Why aren't you at the party?" I asked as I walked to the car.

"I was; you weren't. I decided I didn't like the party so much."

I looked over at him, he was leaning against his Jeep. His face blank. "How did you know I was here?"

"I didn't, this is the way that I drive home. Saw the car, saw a girl walk into the water, only know one girl crazy enough to do that in the dark." He turned and opened his Jeep. A moment later, he held out something shiny to me.

"My tyre iron?" I snatched it off him. "You got my tyre iron?"

"Nah, Rory did. You were about three feet from it the night you were here." He chuckled.

"You've had it all this time?" He shrugged. "You're not a nice person. You know that, don't you?" I accused him.

"Yeah, but you still want me in your bed."

"Goodnight Zac," I indicated the tyre iron, "thanks for this. I need to go before I freeze in these clothes." I turned, got in the car and drove home.

# Chapter Eight

Once home I locked up and then showered quickly. Warmth was once again mine. I shook my head at the events of the night. God, he was a cocky bastard. I decided I needed some warm milk. Heading to the kitchen, I screamed bloody murder at the sight of Zac's face peering in through the back-door window.

"What the _hell_ is wrong with you?" I demanded when I opened the door.

"I needed this." His lips moved over mine and his hand fisted in the back of my pyjama top, knotting it. The other hand stroked my jawline as his kiss moved from brutal and demanding to soft and sensual. My mind screamed no, but my body betrayed me as it melted into him. My hand curled at the nape of his neck, the other splayed across his chest. He pulled away from me. "Who's home?"

"No one," I answered. "I'm alone all night." I looked up at him, had I just given him the green light to take this further?

His grin was wicked as he took my hand and led me inside. He closed the door and locked it. "Show me the way," he instructed.

"We're just making out?" I clarified as I turned to lead him upstairs.

"Definitely making out." He pulled me back into him, my ass rubbed against him like it had a mind of its own.

"I don't like you," I said as I led him to my room.

"Hate you," he clarified.

"Just so you know." We got to my room and I helped him take off his t-shirt.

"Oh, I definitely know." He took off my sleep shirt and murmured in appreciation as he cupped my breasts. His thumbs rubbed over both my nipples simultaneously.

"Don't do that," I protested.

"Okay." He bent his head and took one into his mouth. My knees buckled. His tongue lavished it with attention as I realised belatedly the harsh breathing and moany, panting sounds were mine.

"Zac..."

"Yeah, the bed will be better." He pushed me over and I landed on my mattress softly. He followed me down, landing between my splayed legs, his mouth captured mine and I arched into his kisses as my hand trailed over his shoulders and down his back. His hand rested on my hip, slipping under the waistband of my shorts. His groan was appreciative when he realised, I was bare underneath.

"I need these off you, Hudson," he said softly as he moved down the bed. I looked up at him as he knelt between my legs, his hair tousled from my hands, his cheeks flushed. His broad chest was exquisite, his shoulders were broad and strong. I half sat up, but a strong hand caught me around my waist as he dipped his head and nuzzled my neck. My hand trailed down his chest and pulled open his belt. I opened the top button of his jeans, then the next, and the next. I pulled him out. Soft, yet so hard in my hand, I ran my hand over him as I had done before. He caught my hand and looked at me. He pushed me back against my pillows.

"You're a virgin, aren't you?" There was no mockery, no judgement. I still tensed slightly, I nodded once. "Fuck, I don't know if I can take that from you." Zac looked away once, his fingers tightened on mine slightly. "I really do want to." He looked back at me, ran over the length of me, topless, shorts pulled low, legs open around him as he knelt between them. He let go of my hand and ran his hands up my legs. I moaned in appreciation as I felt tiny electric currents explode over my legs. He dipped his head and soft kisses followed his hands. "Jesus, you're so fucking responsive," he muttered into my thigh. His hands gripped my shorts and with a quick jerk, he tugged them down; I heard them rip, but he didn't care. Neither did I. He pushed my knees together and then swiftly they were off and I was naked. I closed my legs reflexively – he muttered a _no_ and his strong hands slid over my knees and parted my thighs.

He looked down on me, his eyes flicked up to me. His smile was soft and victorious at the same time. He leaned over and kissed me, his tongue plunged into my mouth as he took complete ownership of me. His hand stroked against me once, like last time. I jerked but he settled me. I knew how wet I was; his groan of appreciation helped me relax slightly until his finger slid into me. I tore my mouth away from him as he stroked against me. Zac's lips were on my neck as his hand worked me expertly. In no time at all, my thighs were clenching around his hand, my hands clutching him to me, my lips pressed to his. I lay panting under him.

"Um, sorry." I tried to move away, his laugh was low and throaty.

"You don't need to be sorry." He kissed me softly. His hand trailed up my side. "Don't be scared, I just need out of these jeans." He got up and kicked off his jeans then lay down beside me again, tucking me into his arm as his fingers trailed over my collarbone.

"Zac?" I looked up at him as I trailed my hand over his jaw.

"What?" He nipped at my finger. His smile slow and sexy.

"I want more."

His eyes darkened and his hand stilled. "Do you?" He moved my head to the side as he licked my neckline and moved down to my breasts. His tongue flicked my nipple. My breath caught. "What do you want more of Littlest Hudson?" He teased my other nipple. His hand stroked me between my legs again. His thumb rubbed my nub, my back arched, forcing more of my breast into his mouth. He played me like an instrument.

"This. I want more of this," I whispered, my hands on his shoulders as I pushed him down.

He stilled and his eyes met mine; his smile was sensual as he travelled slowly down. His first lick on my core made me cry out. His second made me fist my sheets. His finger sliding into me as his tongue licked me, made me lose all thought. When he finally had his fill of tasting me, he rose over me. I lay loose and exhausted under him. "Your turn." He grinned at me as he pushed his boxer briefs down. "You know what to do?" I shook my head. I wasn't scared, I _wanted_ to do this. I sat up as we switched positions. He kissed me hard, I tasted myself on him. "Well remember that very lucky spoon with your ice cream the other week?" I laughed as I took him in my hand. He winked as he lay back. "I'm your spoon. Enjoy."

It wasn't as bad as I thought it would be. He didn't taste bad. My mouth fit over him; I didn't manage to take all of him, but I did what I could. Tentatively I licked him. His groan was immediate. Okay – so he liked that. With more confidence this time, I flicked my tongue over the end and his hand fisted in my hair. Oh, he _definitely_ liked that. I sucked softly, his hips jerked slightly. _Okay, I got this_. Using a combination of those techniques and being gently guided by Zac's hand in my hair, I was soon the maestro and he was my instrument. He tapped my shoulder.

"Raine, I'm gonna cum, stop." His voice was breathy. I made Zac Hunter breathless. _Me._ Empowered, I took him an extra inch deeper than before and sucked harder. It was surprising when he released, but again, not as bad as I'd heard it could be. "Fucking hell, I thought you hadn't done that before," he muttered afterwards, pulling me up beside him.

"First time." I was feeling smug.

"Okay, don't get too big-headed." He laughed at my expression. We lay together, naked, entangled, his hand running over my bare back, my hand trailing over his toned stomach.

"Zac?" I looked at him.

"Yeah." His eyes were half closed, he looked so peaceful.

"What are we doing?"

I felt him stiffen beside me. "Fooling around," he commented; the harshness was back in his tone. The disappointment flooded over me. "Making out, wasn't that what we said downstairs?"

My hand stilled. "Yeah, it was." I laughed shortly. "We definitely did that."

"Yeah." He reached over for his phone. "Shit, look at the time. I better move." He untangled himself from me and sat up. I averted my eyes from his broad back and sculpted shoulders. He pulled on his boxer briefs and jeans. I slipped my sleep shirt back on. He pulled on his own t-shirt as I reached for my shorts. He stood and looked at me.

"What?" I asked as ran my hand through my hair.

"Did you think it was more?" Zac asked me as he watched me.

"I didn't know what it was, that's why I asked," I forced myself to hold his gaze. "What did you think it was?"

"Nothing." He smirked as he shrugged. Disappointed, I followed him down to the back door. "Don't tell anyone. If you do, I'll deny it."

I stood there with my mouth hanging open as he left. _Complete bastard._

# Chapter Nine

Saturday passed with River coming home mid-afternoon and insisting on telling me all about the great party. He'd gotten laid. Seems Marcie was a dim and distant memory. I did ask him about her and could have backhanded him when he actually took a moment to remember who she was. I sulked in my room for most of Sunday, glaring at my bed, like it was the bed's fault I had made out on Friday night with Zac Hunter. When I was alone, I could feel him, _everywhere_. I closed my eyes and I saw his smile as he looked up at me from between my legs. Several times my thighs clenched in memory of the feel of him.

I hated him. Did I? _No._ This was obviously the problem. I didn't hate him. I was quite obviously falling for the cocky shit and now I was fantasising about more than his head between my legs. Slamming my locker shut on Monday at school, I jumped when River appeared beside me.

"We need to go to Boulder."

"Huh? Why?" I asked as I turned to him.

"Trent's having trouble with practice. You know he practices better when his best linebacker is on the team. He needs me." River said this with no arrogance. He simply was that good and Trent was better when he played against him.

"Why do I need to go?" I muttered.

River stopped and looked at me. "Because you're our sister?" He rolled his eyes. "Seriously, are you on your period or something?"

"I'm ignoring you said that and you better hope I'm not, or I'm cutting off Riv junior," I snapped as I walked past him.

"You're definitely grumpy, Drop. I'll make sure you get fries." River jogged to catch up to me.

"Freaking hell, I'm not on my period." I smacked him.

He laughed as he slung his arm over my shoulders. "Call dad and tell him we're heading to CU."

"Why do I have to do it?" I asked as we got to the Camry.

"Because he adores you and won't run through practice routines with you for Trent." River winked at me.

Once I'd called dad, the drive to CU was quick and almost normal. I felt the tension of the weekend leave me. It was normal for Trent to overanalyse his practice sessions, freak out and call in River and a few other defence players and go through practice plays. This is why he was going to play in the NFL. He lived football, he breathed football practice. We made our way to the training field and found Trent there along with a handful of others. My step faltered when I saw Zac.

"Hey sis, my lucky charm." Trent hugged me quickly.

"Your sister is here?" Zac asked scornfully.

"Yeah, she's almost as critical as coach when it comes to what I'm doing wrong," Trent muttered. He softened the words with a smile and then started thrusting gear and instructions at River.

"Why are you here?" I snapped at Zac.

"Colin's got a hamstring injury; Zac agreed to step in." Trent informed me.

_Now he's doing Trent favours?_ My eyes met Zac's briefly. His look was mocking. He licked his lips and I averted my gaze immediately. "Whatever," I muttered as I headed to the bleachers. I settled down and pulled out a bottle of water.

"What, you're not pleased to see me?"

"About as pleased to see you, as you are me," I replied softly. I didn't look at him.

"Hey, a girl wearing short shorts, and a tank top, and me knowing exactly what's under them and how she tastes? I couldn't be happier." I glared up at him. He was looking out over the field. His hair was mussed, he had a light sheen of sweat over his brow. They had obviously already been practicing. His football pants were white and tight, his thighs were strong and defined. He had his jersey half tucked up over his pads. "Like what you see, Littlest Hudson?" His eyes flicked back to mine, the heat in them caught my breath.

"No," I lied. His smile was smug – he knew I was lying. I forced my eyes out over the field, to Trent and River. River was patiently listening to Trent but shaking his head. I groaned.

"What is it?" Zac asked.

I stood. "That, right there – is a disaster waiting to happen." I took off over the field. By the time I reached them, Trent was no longer quiet, and River was no longer patient. "Enough!" I stepped in between them.

"Woah!" I heard the words behind me but ignored them.

"You." I pointed at Trent. "Go. Start throwing." I turned to River. "You, sprints now, you need to warm up." They both looked at me. "I said _now,_ Hudsons. Move it!" I snapped. They both trotted off. I grinned at their backs. I turned to the others. "Yeah you too, I don't have all night to be here looking at you. Move." They all dispersed. I heard the whispered comments of _she's hot_ , _can we ask her out?_ Zac hung back. He too heard the whispers, he frowned at me. I tilted my head in question.

"I'm no longer happy with this situation," he admitted as he turned and followed his teammates. I felt happier than I should have at the butterflies that came alive in my stomach at the way he said that.

Despite the initial hiccup, the practice didn't take long. Trent found his rhythm quickly. His regular defence on the team saw what River and I did. They were then able to talk through the plays with River and decide how to iron it out. In about three hours, they were done and in the showers. I stayed out on the bleachers, heading up a few rows and popping in my headphones. I lay back and watched the sky. My eyes drifted shut and I lost track of time. Until I felt someone standing over me and opened my eyes to see Zac staring down at me. I pulled out my headphones.

"I should have known you would sneak up on me," I muttered.

He grunted in acknowledgement as he sat down, lifting my legs and placing them over his. I resisted as I looked down to the tunnel where my brothers were going to appear any moment. "I told them you left."

"Why?" I gaped at him.

"Because I can't do this when they're near." His hand slid up my leg towards my shorts. I slapped it away.

"You can't do that at all anyway, without me wanting you too," I snapped.

Zac placed his hand back on my thigh – it continued up my leg. "You know you want me to do it, as much as I want to." He was looking at me now. I pulled my legs away and he held onto them tightly.

"Zac, please."

"I like hearing you beg, Hudson." He smiled as he took my hand and raised it to his lips.

"I'm not begging, you're an arrogant bastard." I slipped my hand out of his. "I'm leaving."

He sighed and let me go. I stood. I straightened my shorts and top. My heart was racing again. His hand snaked around my waist and pulled me into him, his head dipped into my neck. "All I could think about all weekend was how you felt. How you tasted." He kissed my neck. "How I felt in your mouth."

"Jesus Zac, don't," I whispered, my body naturally curving into him, my head tilting to give him better access to my neck. His hand slipped under my tank, his fingers inched up under my breast. "I need you." His thumb brushed over my nipple. "I want you under me again." His tongue licked my earlobe. "I have to be inside you." His other hand slipped under the waistband of my shorts and rested just above my panties. He groaned. "You know you want me too."

"We're going to get caught," I protested weakly as he kissed my neck softly, as his thumb traced the curve of my breast. Loud laughter from the tunnel broke his spell over me. I jumped away, out of his hold and away from his reach. Panting, I ran down the stairs. I looked up at him once and faltered at his stare, I had to force myself to leave.

River was waiting by the car. "Where have you been?"

"Bathroom," I answered, breathlessly. "Got lost."

"You're so useless with directions Drop." He laughed. "Come on, let's go home." I nodded and got in the car. I didn't hear a word he said to me as he drove. Thankfully, River didn't notice.

The week passed in a blur. I kept daydreaming about mocking green eyes with golden flecks, strong shoulders, deft fingers. He had me all in a muddle. I didn't know if this was a game to him. When I was with him, I was _with_ him, I knew I was. There was no pretence. No walls, no competition. We were at home – River was talking about a party later at Forks Park. I was going but wasn't really feeling it, I was merely going through the motions.

"We're leaving in an hour. You'll be ready?" River asked as he looked at me.

"For sure." I yawned.

"Hiking boots, just in case," he reminded me.

"I'm not ten, I remember." I laughed at him. An hour later, I was in cut offs, a black tank, black shirt and black hiking boots.

We were driving to the park, when River asked me quietly. "You sure you're ok Drop?"

"Huh?"

"You've been really quiet. You know you can tell me anything." He took my hand as we drove. I had the overwhelming urge to burst into tears.

"I'm fine Riv." I smiled. "Just moody."

"Are you sure Raindrop? You've not been yourself," he glanced at me as we drove to the park. "I'm worried about you."

There he was, the brother I loved and cherished. I was in such a funk about what I felt for Zac, I forgot my brother would notice, he knew me better than anyone. "Nothing to worry about Riv, I'm okay." Smiling over at him, I saw him relax slightly. "I'm a little bit off, stuff on my mind," I held up my hand to cut off his follow up questions. "I'm good Riv, don't worry about me."

"You're my little sister, I'll always worry about you."

"You're a good brother." I smiled as he grinned at me. I felt a little bit of the anxiety that I had been carrying ever since seeing Zac, leave me. I needed to sort myself out, how was I going to explain to River I was hung up on Zac? He'd lock me in the house until I came to my senses, the thought made me smile. Once we arrived at the park, we found Trent and the three of us hung out together. We were standing talking with Trent, about his football practice when I heard someone approach us.

"Hey." All three of us turned to the person behind us. My mouth dropped open in surprise. Zac stood in front of us. He was wearing jeans and his usual white t-shirt. I glanced nervously at my brothers and noticed River and Trent exchange a look between themselves. My stomach plummeted in apprehension.

"Hunter," Trent acknowledged.

Zac stepped forward, reaching out he snagged my hand, pulling me over to him. River squawked and moved forward to grab me back, but Trent stopped him. River glared at Trent, but he stepped back.

"I'm dating Raine," Zac said. "I'm fed up hiding it." He laced his fingers through mine. "It's been a few weeks. Us three," he made a motion between him and my brothers, "have a thing. It's between us, it doesn't involve Raine."

Trent and River were speechless, I had to admit, I was equally at a loss for words. I looked at my brothers to gauge their reaction. River seemed to be solely focused on my hand in Zac's. I went to withdraw it, but Zac held tight. "That was it really, I just wanted to let you know. If you have a problem, take it up with me." He stood and waited. My brothers still said nothing. "Okay then," shrugging, Zac led me away from them. He glanced over his shoulder at them once more, before turning to me. He grinned at me and I started to giggle before I was full out laughing. He pulled me into his arms and I went, willingly.

"That was unexpected," I admitted. I glanced back at my brothers. River was staring at me as he and Trent spoke quietly, Trent had a hand on River's arm. _Was he holding him back_? I'd deal with them later. I swallowed hard when River met and held my gaze, from the look in River's eyes, I wasn't going to enjoy that conversation.

Zac's arms tightened around me, bringing my attention back to him. "You okay?" he asked me.

"Yes," I answered quickly. The slight frown he had as he searched my face had me reaching up, my hand caressing the side of his face before smoothing the frown from his forehead. "I just wasn't expecting you to do that. We didn't even talk about this and then you 'out' me to my brothers. It was a shock." I shrugged. He couldn't be surprised that I was slightly shocked with his revelation.

"But you're okay with this?" He looked unsure. I had never seen him look anything but confident, cocky. I liked this vulnerability he was showing to me, I had a feeling he didn't show it often. _This_ was who he was when he was alone with me.

"I'm more than okay with this, Zac," I answered, sliding my hands around his neck.

"Hunter for the win," Zac said to me softly as he dipped his head and caught my lips in a kiss.

Regardless of the confrontation I had coming from my brothers, I couldn't resist Zac, we fit together. I'd deal with my brothers later. Right now, I was with Zac and in front of everyone, I kissed him back.

If you enjoyed this book, it would mean so much if you considered writing a short review and sharing it on your normal retailers site or anywhere else you wanted to share your love of this story and all places books!

Reviews are helpful to other readers, but mean even more to authors, and I would appreciate it so much if you took a moment to share your love of this book! If you do leave a review, email me, or message me on Facebook and let me know and I may even share it on my website or social media.

Eve x

* * *

www.evelmitchell.com

  Facebook

  Twitter

  Instagram

Eve L. Mitchell lives in the North East of Scotland, in the UK. She writes under a pen name, because otherwise her Secret Agent status will be revoked. Eve started writing in 2018, with her first book "Indian Summer' published in January 2019 – and hasn't stopped writing since.

Eve prefers to consider her relationship with caffeine as codependent rather than caffeine reliant, she admits she may be the more needy one in the relationship but hey... maybe caffeine is just as addicted to her?

* * *

Eve L. Mitchell is an emerging author of contemporary romance.

Indian Summer – books2read.com/indiansummer

Dark Heart – books2read.com/aarondarkheart

Unbroken Bonds - books2read.com/unbrokenbonds

Cole (Boulder Series Book 1.5) - books2read.com/coltondawson

# Contents

  1. Cover
  2. Title Page
  3. Copyright
  4. Contents
  5. Foreword
  6. Chapter 1
  7. Chapter 2
  8. Chapter 3
  9. Chapter 4
  10. Chapter 5
  11. Chapter 6
  12. Chapter 7
  13. Chapter 8
  14. Chapter 9
  15. From the Author
  16. About the Author
  17. Also by Eve L. Mitchell

  1. Cover
  2. Copyright
  3. Contents
  4. Beginning
  5. Foreword
  6. About the Author
  7. Also by Eve L. Mitchell

