 
Giggle Book Four

By Bobby A. Troutt

Copyright 2014 Bobby A. Troutt

Smashwords Edition

Thank you for downloading this free ebook. You are welcome to share it with your friends. This book may be reproduced, copied and distributed for non-commercial purposes, provided the book remains in its complete original form. Thank you for your support.

Table of Contents

Guppy's Dream

Tic Toc

The Thirsty Camel

A Loss for Words

Oops!

Two Peas in a Pod

Inside a Sea Shell

Punkin

The Camel with the Sore Hump

The Clock That Ran Backwards

*****

Giggle Book Four

Guppy's Dream

There came a time, once, when a little guppy was swimming about in his fishbowl all happy and carefree. His fishbowl sat on a nightstand beside the bed of his best friend, Tommy. The fishbowl was directly in front of a window. Day after day, Guppy loved to stare out of the window. He would look up at the sky and watch the birds fly. He loved to see the morning sunrise and evening sunset. He even stayed up late so he could see the golden moon. Although those things made him happy, there was one thing in his heart he longed for and that was he wanted to be free of the fishbowl so he could swim the ocean floor with the other fish of the sea. One day as he looked out, his heart yearned for his dream to come true.

"I wish, I wish, oh, Lord," he said, "that I may be free one day to swim the ocean blue so I can see all of the beauty you have made. I want to swim with all kinds of fish, taste the salty waters, breathe the salty air and float about on the white-capped waters. Lord," he said, "I pray. I pray that one day you will grant me my dream. That you will release me from these glass walls so I may live under the deep blue sea. Lord, if you do, I ask you to please watch over me because I will be so tiny in such a big body of water."

Not long after Guppy talked with the Lord, Tommy's family went to the beach to relax and play.

"Dad, may I take Guppy to the beach?" asked Tommy.

"The beach is no place for him," replied his dad.

His mother stated, "Honey, Guppy could use some fresh air, too."

"Well, okay," said his dad. "But he's your responsibility, Tommy."

Tommy smiled and Guppy grinned from ear to ear. When they arrived at the beach, they rushed to claim a place, set up their umbrella, unfolded their chairs and spread out their beach towels. Tommy ran straight to the edge of the water and splish-splashed in the waves as his tiny feet sunk down into the sand. He held Guppy's fishbowl above his head as he twirled about and laughed. Tommy was really enjoying himself when he heard his mother calling his name. Without thinking, Tommy sat Guppy's fishbowl down in the wet sand and rushed off to see what his mother wanted. The waves from the ocean kept washing higher and higher upon the beach. As the waves continued to push inland, they eventually surrounded Guppy's fishbowl. After each wave, Guppy's fishbowl was washed closer and closer to the ocean. Tommy or his parents never realized what was happening; they were too busy doing other things. Tommy had started playing with the other children at the beach and completely forgot about Guppy. Guppy was terrified as he looked out across the ocean at all the water. It is too deep, he thought as he was washed closer and closer to the ocean. The closer he got to the ocean, the more he questioned whether he wanted his dream to come true or not.

"Lord, oh, Lord, my wish may have been a mistake. Help me, help me," he screamed and hollered as he tried to get someone's attention, "anyone, anybody!"

Everyone was so busy having fun they didn't hear him. The waves became greater, stronger and quicker than before. The waves crashed hard upon the sandy beach and pushed Guppy's fishbowl out into the ocean.

"Aiyee," he cried as his fishbowl bobbed up and down.

As Guppy's fishbowl bobbed up and down on the white-crusted waves, it drifted further and further out into the ocean. Guppy's fishbowl rocked back and forth and from side to side so much that he became sick. When he swam to the top of his fishbowl and leaned over to get a little air, a huge wave washed him right out of the bowl and into the ocean. The empty fishbowl bobbed up and down and eventually disappeared over the horizon. All Guppy could do was close his eyes and pray.

"Oh, Lord," he prayed, "what have I done or said to deserve this. I am too tiny and meek to take on an ocean so big and deep."

But, the Lord did not reply. However, when Guppy opened his eyes, he forgot all his fears when he saw all the different colors of the deep blue ocean.

"Wow! Look at it all," he smiled and said. "Lord, thank you and bless you for allowing my dream to come true."

Guppy saw so many things he hadn't even imagined or ever dreamed of. There were so many different things including all different kinds of fish and colors; it was so breathtaking.

"Lord, I must say, you really outdid yourself. It's another world," he said as he darted here and there flopping this way and that. "Wee," he cried out. "I'm free."

Suddenly, Guppy stopped, listened and tilted his head a slight when he heard laughing and giggling coming from nearby. Not knowing what it was, he became afraid so he stayed still and listened. He turned quickly when he noticed some tiny bubbles floating up behind some coral on the ocean floor. After the bubbles burst, he heard the laughing and giggling again.

"Who's there?" he asked nervously.

But, there was no response.

When he heard it again, three fish came out from behind the coral.

"Who are you?" Guppy asked as the threesome just looked at him.

"And who are you? We've never seen you around here before," one of them replied.

"My name is Guppy."

"Guppy," he said. "Why are you so small and tiny?"

"I don't know," he said. "Who are you?" Guppy questioned again.

"My name is Virgil Bluegill. He's Ricky Bass and that is Bobbye Trout," he said as he pointed to each one. "We live around here."

"You do," replied Guppy with excitement. "This place is so beautiful."

"Well, thank you," interrupted Ricky Bass. "I do have to say, you have such a colorful tail."

"Oh, thanks," giggled Guppy.

"May I ask," spoke up Bobbye, "what brings you here?"

"Well, you may not believe it," he said, "or understand it but the Lord has granted me my dream."

"And what would that be?" asked Virgil.

"To swim in the ocean and witness its beauty," he said. "I wished for it and the Lord let it be."

"You're in for a treat and an adventure," Ricky stated. "It is definitely a wonderful, exciting and adventurous place. I have to warn you, though, it is also dangerous. With you being so tiny and all, do you believe you can make it in the deep blue?"

"My size shouldn't be a problem," replied Guppy.

"I don't know, Guppy. You are so tiny and so meek," Bobbye stated. "There are all kinds of giant fish everywhere in this ocean. You're really going to have to be careful or you may get eaten. And besides, you don't know anyone or have any friends to swim with."

"Yeah," he sadly said, "I guess you're right. I didn't think about that."

"Don't worry," replied Virgil. "We'll be your friends."

"You will," cried out Guppy as he almost got strangled on a swallow of water. "That's great. Thanks, guys."

"Come one," said Bobbye, "we'll show you around the coral reef. We can play there and have fun. Plus, we'll be safe from Buster Shark."

"Who's Buster Shark?" asked Guppy.

"Buster Shark is the meanest of the entire ocean," answered Virgil. "There's no one meaner than he."

"Are you sure we'll be safe behind the coral?" Guppy asked.

"Why, sure," said Virgil. "Come on, you'll see."

As the little school of fish went forth into the ocean deep, they danced about the coral, splashed upon the rocks and blew bubbles.

"Whoopee," they all cried.

"This is so much fun!" shouted Guppy. "This is a totally different world than my fishbowl."

"What's a fishbowl?" Virgil, Ricky and Bobbye asked in unison.

"Oh, it's where I used to live," Guppy replied. "It's a glass bowl that has colored gravel in it and a little glass mountain with a hole that I swim back and forth through."

"That doesn't sound like too much fun," said Virgil.

"No, not at all," stated Ricky.

Bobbye shook his head back and forth and said, "There's no way I'd want to live in a fishbowl. It sounds so small and boring. What did you do for fun?"

"I told you. I swim back and forth through the hole in the little glass mountain," explained Guppy.

"Really," said Virgil. "That sounds awfully boring."

"Well, it's not like that here in the ocean; there's so much to do you'll never get bored," replied Ricky. "However, you will have to worry about getting caught with a hook or net or eaten by another fish. But, let's not dwell on those things. We are here to have fun."

The coral reef was colorful; it was the home of many different kinds of fish, big and small. Guppy saw so many fish he couldn't name them all. As they played, his friends showed him around and told him the do's and don'ts of living in the ocean.

"You guys are so smart," he said.

"That's why we stay in school. Every day we learn something new. We have to stay on top of things or we'll wind up bottom up on the bottom or floating upside down above," Virgil replied.

Suddenly, the fish sensed Buster was close by and moving in fast. Quickly, everyone but Guppy dashed about the coral and hid. All Guppy did was sit still in the water; he didn't know why Virgil, Ricky and Bobbye were hiding. Unexpectedly to Guppy, the water stirred up and created a smoke screen of sand and mud. Guppy was engulfed by sand and mud. His friends wanted to go out to help him but it was too late. Buster was already eye to eye with him. Guppy swished his colorful tail to fan away the sand and mud so he could see. When it finally cleared, Guppy was nose to nose with Buster. Virgil, Ricky and Bobbye could not look because they were so afraid for him. They were frozen stiff with fear. All they could do was pray to the Lord for help.

"Who do you think you are, pipsqueak?" Buster asked Guppy.

Guppy took a long, hard swallow which nearly got caught in his throat.

"I am Guppy," he replied once he cleared his throat.

"Guppy," said Buster as he laughed loudly. "Guppy," he repeated, "uh!"

"And you, sir, are who?" questioned Guppy.

"I am Buster Shark, you little tadpole, "the ruler of this part of the coral reef. You're not from here are you?" Buster said as he eyed Guppy up and down.

"Nope, I'm not," he replied.

"You are so tiny I can hardly see you," stated Buster.

"And you are so big," replied Guppy. "I can't help but see you."

Guppy's friends and all the other fish who were watching in the distance were amazed when he scolded Buster for picking on them. Buster gritted his teeth while Virgil, Ricky and Bobbye giggled behind the coral. Embarrassed, Buster looked around and asked who was there. Virgil, Ricky, Bobbye and the other fish tried to hold their breaths but tiny little bubbles seeped from their mouths. Buster drew back a bit, shot forward and then snapped at Guppy. Although Guppy was small, he was quick. He was able to move faster than Buster. Snap, snap, snap went Buster as he charged toward Guppy. Fortunately, each time Guppy was able to get away. Guppy was so tiny and fast Buster couldn't catch him. The other fish along with Virgil, Ricky and Bobbye cheered Guppy on. They admired Guppy and he won their respect for challenging Buster the shark. Overly confident, Guppy took his eyes off of Buster for just a second. That was the opportunity Buster needed. He charged and snapped at Guppy. Before Guppy realized it, he was in Buster's mouth. All the other fish scattered except for Virgil, Ricky and Bobbye. Saddened by the loss of their friend, they each dropped their heads one by one. They were swimming away when they noticed Buster was acting funny. His face was all bent out of shape and his eyes were red and bulged out. Without warning, Buster sneezed and Guppy shot out of his mouth in a bubble of water.

"Hooray," the threesome cried out with joy.

Buster sneezed so hard he not only blew Guppy out of his mouth but his teeth as well. Buster's mouth was all sunk in and shriveled up. He quickly covered his mouth, cried out and darted across the ocean floor; he never bullied anyone again. Once Buster was out of sight, Virgil, Ricky and Bobbye all swam over to Guppy and asked him how he was able to get Buster to sneeze. Guppy just laughed and told them all he had to do was tickle Buster's throat with his fancy tail of many colors.

"What a fish tale I'll have to tell my baby fishes," laughed Guppy.

"But will they believe it?" asked Virgil.

"Time will tell," replied Guppy as they all laughed.

"Unexpectedly, the waves began to stir again.

"What is it?" cried Virgil.

"Is Buster coming back?" asked Ricky.

"No, no, no," cried Bobbye. "Look!"

"Aiyee," they all screamed when they saw a giant human finger wiggling in the water.

"Guppy," a voice said. "Guppy, are you alright?"

Startled, Guppy realized he had fallen asleep. Swimming in the ocean was once again only a dream. But, Tommy had a surprise for him. Tommy's mom and dad had bought a big aquarium for Guppy to live in and also bought him some new friends to share it with. Tommy named Guppy's new friends Virgil, Ricky and Bobbye.

"Well, Lord," Guppy said, "you do work in mysterious ways. Bless you, Lord."

*****

Giggle Book Four

Tic Toc

Kirbytown was a small community that sat snuggled in the valley and was surrounded by rolling, golden hills. In the center of town stood a giant town clock that bonged on the hour and chimed every half hour. It could be heard throughout the valley. Bong, bong, bong it sounded!

Every day at noon, Zebulon, the old clockmaker listened for the clock. Zeb's great grandfather built the clock many years ago. It had become the town landmark for everyone around. Zebulon was the best clock maker in his day. He loved clocks because he had been around them all his life.

Zeb lived not far from town in a place called Buttermilk Hollow. His house ticked and tocked with all kinds of clocks. Chimes, dings and ticks filled his house with love. His long white hair flowed with waves of curls and his snow white beard covered around his slim face. He was a tall, thin, humble man with crippled legs and hands. His eyes were weak and his thick glasses helped him to see but every time he smiled, his eyes twinkled.

Zeb's family was all gone; there was no one left but him. Zeb lived with his longtime best friend and co-worker, Chester A. Osgathorpe, III. Chester was a small, chubby mouse with a patch of white hair between his ears and white curly sideburns that hung on each side of his face. His eyes were big, black and bright. Chester always wore a cap between his large ears. He also wore high-top tennis shoes, a plaid shirt and khaki pants. Chester walked with a crutch because he had a bad leg. Zeb had whittled the crutch out of a matchstick. Old Zeb never could pronounce Chester's full name so he nicknamed him Tic Toc since Chester loved clocks as much as he did. Zeb and Tic Toc were the best of friends. They had been through a lot together. When they weren't working on clocks, they were sitting around playing cards or checkers to pass the time away.

"Your move, Tic Toc," Zeb chuckled as he picked up Tic Toc's checkers after he had jumped them.

"You won't get another one," laughed Tic Toc. "King me."

"Now, now, now, Tic Toc, we'll see about that," said Zeb as he took out his pocket watch and looked at it. "Just a minute, Tic Toc," he said as he eased up from his chair and went to the door.

Zeb looked at his pocket watch. Bong, bong, bong went the town clock. Zeb turned and smiled at Tic Toc.

"Sounds good," he said. "It's right on time as always."

On his way back to sit down, Zeb caught a glimpse of the clock standing in the corner that was still and quiet. No tick, tock, bong, bong or even a chime could be heard. Tic Toc noticed Zeb had the same expression on his face each time he looked at the clock. He often wondered why Zeb never said a word or even talked about the clock. All Zeb ever did was run his hands along the wooden cabinet and gently pat it with his hand.

"Come on Zeb," yelled Tic Toc. "Are we going to finish the game?"

"Sure," Zeb said as he turned and went back to his seat.

"What's the story about that old clock?" asked Tic Toc. "You never talk about it like you do all the other clocks."

"Oh, it's nothing," he replied. "It's nothing."

"Are you sure, Zeb? You know we are good friends and you can talk to me about anything," said Tic Toc.

"Yes, I suppose you're right, Tic Toc. The clock is very special to me," said Zeb with tears in his eyes. "The clock was a gift from my wife many years ago. It's my favorite and always will be. I loved her so much and I miss her to this day," he explained. "Every time I look at the clock, it brings back memories. One day it stopped working and I never got around to fixing it. By the time I did, my hands were crippled so bad I couldn't do the work. So, I've had no other choice but to let it sit still and quiet all these years. If only I could hear it bong, chime or ding once more, it would bring comfort and joy to my heart."

"Why didn't you get someone to fix it for you?" asked Tic Toc.

"No!" yelled Zeb. "No! No! No! The clock is special. It's mine and I don't want anyone to touch it but me."

"I'm sorry. I was only trying to help," Tic Toc apologized.

"I know," he said. "I didn't mean to yell at you. Please forgive me."

"Sure," Tic Toc replied. "I understand."

"I believe I will go lie down for a while," stated Zeb, "and take a nap."

"Sounds like a good idea, Zeb," replied Tic Toc. "I'll think I'll do the same."

Zeb eased up and went to his bedroom. Tic Toc jumped down from the table and headed for his mouse hole, yawning.

"I'm tired, too," he said as he stretched and let out a long deep breath.

As Zeb lay in his bed, he felt so ashamed for yelling at Tic Toc. We have been together for so many years. He's all that I have left. I hope I didn't hurt his feelings too bad, he thought. He placed his hands behind his head and said to himself, I wish I could surprise him with something nice.

"That's it," mumbled Zeb. "Yeah, a surprise but what kind of surprise can I do with these old crippled hands of mine and these bad eyes? Wait a minute," he said as he sat up in bed. "I'll make him a miniature grandfather clock to sit in his room. That's it. That's what I will do," he said with a little giggle and chuckle. "He'll definitely love that."

But my hands," he thought as he looked down at them and gently rubbed them. My hands are too crippled and my eyes are too weak. What am I going to do? he asked himself as he got up and sat down on the side of the bed. No matter what, I must try, he thought. I must try.

Zeb had made up his mind. No matter how great the pain or struggle, he was going to make the sacrifice to build the miniature grandfather clock for his friend.

In the next room, in a hole in the wall, Tic Toc thought, too. He also wanted to do something special for his friend. What can I do? thought Tic Toc. What can I do to ease his pain? Tic Toc questioned himself as he paced back and forth, thinking and wringing his hands. Then all at once, it hit him.

"That's it," yelled Tic Toc. "I'll fix the old clock and surprise him. No, no wait a minute. There's no way I can do that. With this old crippled leg it will be a struggle for me to get up and down the clock. Besides, Zeb said he didn't want anyone to touch it. However, I'm not just anyone, I'm his best friend. I have to give it a try."

That day, the two of them vowed to surprise their best friend. The next day, Zeb worked on the miniature grandfather clock before he came out of his room. But, Tic Toc decided to wait until the next night, when Zeb was asleep, to start working on his surprise. Neither one of them knew what was going on. They played cards and checkers like nothing was going on.

Time passed each day as Zeb worked on the miniature grandfather clock with his crippled hands and weak eyes. Tic Toc noticed Zeb rubbing his hands more and more each day while they played cards and checkers. His hands seem to be getting worse, thought Tic Toc. But, I don't understand because he doesn't work anymore.

At night, Tic Toc worked on the special clock while Zeb slept. He tried his best to get it fixed so he could surprise Zeb. One night, Zeb was awakened by an unfamiliar sound. He heard among the regular ticks, tocks, bongs and dings of the other clocks, a faint pick, pick, pick and a twist and turn along with a bang, bang, bang. What is that? he thought. And where is coming from? He eased up slowly from his bed and walked into the living room and listened to see if he could figure out what the strange noise was. Is it coming from the old clock? he thought.

"Yes, I believe it is," he mumbled as he made his way over to the clock.

Quietly, he looked through the little window on the side of the clock. Tic Toc saw him and in the nick of time he hid in the clock works. Huh, thought Zeb. I don't see anything or hear anything.

"That's strange. I guess my ears are getting bad now," he mumbled as he went back to bed.

The next day, Zeb never mentioned what he heard during the night and Tic Toc was relieved.

"Tic Toc, have you any threes?" asked Zeb as they sat around the table playing cards. Zeb smiled and said, "Go fish. Well, Tic Toc," he said as he got up, walked over to the door and opened it, "Let's see if everything is on schedule."

Bong, bong, bong went the old town clock.

"Yep, right one time," laughed Zeb.

Zeb and Tic Toc finished their card game and played a few game of checkers. Before they knew it, the day had passed and it was time for dinner.

"I believe I'll turn in early tonight, Tic Toc," Zeb said after he finished his dinner. "You look like you need to turn in early, too. Here lately, I've noticed you seem awfully sleepy during the day. Are you getting enough sleep?"

"Why, yes, Zeb," cried Tic Toc.

"Are you sure? You look like someone who has been working the night shift," giggled Zeb.

"I'm sure," replied Tic Toc.

"See you in the morning," stated Zeb as he headed to his room.

Tic Toc finished his dinner and cleaned up before he went to his room in the wall. When he passed by Zeb's room, he saw Zeb putting something inside an old shoebox. As Tic Toc lay in his tiny bed, he became more and more curious about what Zeb was putting inside the shoebox. I should go take a peek, thought Tic Toc. I'm sure he's asleep by now. Oh, I can't do that. Zeb is my friend. If he wanted me to know, he would tell me. But, Tic Toc's curiosity got the best of him. He snuck into Zeb's room to see what he was hiding. As he inched closer and closer to the shoebox, he thought more and more about what it could be. His imagination was running wild. Just a little peek, he thought. Zeb will never know. But as he stood up on his tiptoes to peep in, he quickly turned and walked away. No, no, I can't look. Zeb is my friend. As Tic Toc turned and walked away, Zeb slowly opened one of his eyes, winked and fell back to sleep.

Zeb rose up early the next morning to put the finishing touches on Tic Toc's miniature grandfather clock.

"It's finished," Zeb quietly said as he leaned back in his chair and admired his work. Huh! he thought. If I can do this then maybe I can fix my clock. Zeb slipped back in bed to go to get a little more sleep when he noticed how quiet it was. Without Zeb's knowledge, Tic Toc had worked all night to stop all the clocks in the house and set Zeb's surprise. The house was so silent you could hear a pin drop. Slowly, Zeb eased back out of bed and paced the floor. Oh, no! Oh, no, thought Zeb. My ears have failed me, too? Worried, he went in the living room to look around. Suddenly, out of the silence, bong, bong, bong went the old clock. But how, he thought. I can't believe it.

"Surprise!" yelled Tic Toc.

"Tic Toc, my old friend, how can I ever thank you?" Zeb exclaimed with tears in his eyes.

After Zeb regained his composure, he thanked Tic Toc and told him he'd be right back. He went to his room and came out with the shoebox. He reached inside the shoebox, took out the miniature grandfather clock and put it on the table.

"Surprise!" he yelled when the clock chimed and dinged.

Tiny tears ran from Tic Toc's eyes. He was just as surprised as Zeb had been. They laughed and listened to the bong, bong, bong of the big clock and the ding, ding, ding of the miniature grandfather clock.

Zeb looked over to Tic Toc and asked, "Do you want to play some checkers?"

Tic Toc looked up, smiled and said, "Why not."

*****

Giggle Book Four

The Thirsty Camel

For days the driving sandstorm drove Mohammed Mmahat and Rosco, his camel, further and deeper into the desert. The sands of the Blowing Sands Desert were some of the most dangerous in the world. The sands could easily cause someone to get lost and wander around in circles for days or weeks at a time. Oooooo stirred the winds as they pushed the two onward and deeper into the desert.

"I can't see a thing," cried Mohammed as he tried to look through the sandstorm.

"Maybe it will let up soon," replied Rosco. "Why don't we stay here until it lets up?"

"I don't know," cried Mohammed. "I'm afraid we'll be buried alive if we don't keep moving."

As the two pressed forward, they quickly tired out and fell down in the sand. As the storm blew on, Mohammed and Rosco were nearly covered with sand. Luckily for them, the wind changed directions and moved out. From buried down in the sand came a moan and a groan from Mohammed and Rosco. They slowly pulled themselves out only to be met by the dry hot heat and scorching sun of the desert.

"We made it," said Mohammed with a weak and trembling voice. "We made it, old buddy," he said as he rubbed his hand up and down Rosco's neck.

"Yeah, we made it, Mohammed, but where are we?" cried Rosco.

Mohammed looked to the north, south, east and west. No matter what direction he looked, all he could see was sand. Then he uttered the most dreaded words anyone could ever hear in a desert.

"I don't know. We are lost," he said.

"What are we going to do now?" asked Rosco. "We can't stay here. What are we going to do?" Rosco asked again with panic in his voice.

Mohammed looked about and mumbled under his breath, "I don't know. I really don't know."

To make things worse, Mohammed looked at Rosco again and realized they had lost all their gear and supplies. All that was left was a canteen half-full of water. Mohammed reached down and took a pebble from the sand, spit on one side of it and flipped it up in the air.

"Wet, we go that way; dry, we go this way," stated Mohammed.

As the pebble flipped over and over in the air, Rosco cried out, "Yuck, Mohammed, that's nasty!"

After the pebble landed in the sand, Mohammed shouted and pointed, "Dry, we go this way!"

"Hey, man, who ever heard of such? Who spits on a pebble to make a decision?" fussed Rosco.

"Just come on," replied Mohammed. "And, quit your complaining."

The two headed out across the desert. It wasn't long before they disappeared out of sight. Deeper and deeper into the desert they went. The dangerously hot sun beat down on them during the day and the cold nights brought chills. Day after day, they wandered here and there and there and here.

"Hey, Mohammed, how do we know we are not going around in circles? I guess the spitty stone will tell you that, too," fussed Rosco who was hungry, tired and thirsty.

"Oh, shut up, Rosco!" shouted Mohammed as the last drop of water fell from the canteen upon his tongue.

"Hey, man, don't you think it's strange we haven't seen an oasis or one blade of green grass?" asked Rosco. "We haven't seen a soul out here. Now, do you want to spit on another rock and try your luck?"

"Oh, come on," motioned Mohammed. "Let's go this way," he instructed.

The two pressed onward and did a little bit of everything along the way. They climbed sand dunes, fell down and even rolled down giant hills of sand which caused them to exhaust most of their energy. As time passed, the two finally fell down on their hands and knees; they crawled and begged for water as the scorching hot sun nearly cooked them. They were tired, hungry, thirsty, beaten and worn which caused them to start seeing things that weren't there.

"Look, Rosco, a waterfall. Come on, hurry!" exclaimed Mohammed.

"I'm right behind you," replied Rosco. "That water sure does look refreshing."

But, when the two got to it, it had disappeared. It was only a mirage but they thought it was real. Thinking they were frolicking under a waterfall, Mohammed and Rosco pitched sand up in the air like it was water; they were having the time of their lives.

"Can you believe it!" shouted Mohammed. "I told you everything would be alright."

"Yeah, man," replied Rosco. "This is the best. Do you mind washing my back, please?"

"Sure, buddy," said Mohammed.

"A little to the left," instructed Rosco as Mohammed washed his back. "Oh, yes, that feels so good."

Just across the way, a head popped up out of the sand.

"Hey, you guys," said a voice.

"Who, us," Mohammed and Rosco asked.

"Yeah, you two," the voice said. "May I ask what on earth you are doing?"

"Sure, we are taking a bath under this waterfall," Mohammed exclaimed.

"Under the waterfall," mocked the voice. "And what waterfall would that be?"

"Why, this one," said Mohammed.

"Psst, Mohammed, there's no water, no waterfall," whispered Rosco as he pecked Mohammed on the shoulder.

"Why, sure there is," replied Mohammed. "Look at the water I'm holding in my hands."

However, Mohammed's hands were filled with nothing but hot, dry sand.

"See," said the voice.

"Now, who might you be?" Mohammed asked as he dropped the sand by his side.

"I'm glad you asked," replied the voice. "My name is Nyathien Mynot but everyone around here calls me Sandy. I'm your local desert rat and I'm here to help you."

"Desert rat," said Mohammed. "How can you help us? And, more importantly, how can we trust you?"

"I don't know," whispered Rosco. "I don't know about this guy. He doesn't look too trustworthy."

"I am the main rat around these parts," Sandy said. "I'm here to make you the deal of your life."

"What kind of a deal?" Mohammed asked.

"Yeah, blondie, what kind of a deal!" shouted Rosco.

"Oh, one that will solve all your problems," retorted Sandy.

"Who said we had problems?" questioned Mohammed.

"Yeah, who said?" Rosco asked.

"Well, I hate to say it but you were taking a bath in dry, hot sand," snickered Sandy. "I would consider that a problem."

Embarrassed, Mohammed and Rosco quickly dropped their heads.

"Ah, don't worry about it," laughed Sandy. "I've seen it happen to a lot of people. Besides, I'm here to make your dream come true. Come on, step over here with me. Now, look over yonder," Sandy instructed.

Mohammed and Rosco looked as far as they could see but they saw nothing.

"I don't see anything," Mohammed replied.

"Me either," Rosco said.

"Oh, my friends just keep looking," encouraged Sandy.

Mohammed and Rosco strained their eyes to see what Sandy was talking about. Suddenly, it unfolded before their very eyes.

"I can see it!" shouted Mohammed.

"I can, too," said Rosco.

"Look, look, my friends, as far as the eye can see. Isn't it beautiful? It is a dream come true," exclaimed Sandy.

As the two looked at the mirage, they saw a beautiful paradise. It was a resort filled with beautiful palm trees, water and food. It was so breathtaking. All Mohammed and Rosco could do was lick their lips and smack their mouths.

"Oh, what I would give for that," cried Mohammed.

"Well, I'm glad you brought that up. That nice piece of property which I call Sandbox Estates can be yours for a small token," bargained Sandy.

"Well, we don't have anything," said Mohammed. "We lost everything we had in the storm."

"You don't have anything at all?" questioned Sandy.

"Nothing," replied Rosco.

"Huh!" Sandy said with frustration. "You must have something. Check again," he insisted. What about that pocket-watch you have there?" asked Sandy.

"Well, I don't know," answered Mohammed. "It belonged to my granddad so it's very sentimental to me."

"Look, at the beautiful paradise again. But, this time picture yourselves out there enjoying it," coaxed Sandy.

As Mohammed looked back out across the desert, he saw himself having a wonderful time.

"Well, I guess," he said. "It is such a beautiful place and it is an old watch."

"Deal!" yelled Sandy.

"Deal," replied Mohammed as he shook hands with Sandy.

"Here's your deed," said Sandy when he handed Mohammed a rolled up piece of paper. "You are now the owners of Sandbox Estates. Bye!" he said as he hurried away.

Sandy disappeared under the sand and headed out across the desert. Quickly, Mohammed and Rosco took off for the estate. However, by the time they got there, it was gone; it was a mirage.

"Now, what are we going to do?" asked Rosco. "We've been had."

"Yep," replied Mohammed. "We have been had by a desert pack rat. Ooh, I wish I could get my hands on him."

As the two stood there disappointed, a gush of water came up out of nowhere.

"Look!" shouted Rosco. "Look at all the water."

"Calm down, Rosco," replied Mohammed. "It's just another mirage."

"But...but...but," stuttered Rosco. "It's wet. Feel it, Mohammed."

"Wet," replied Mohammed as he reached down and touched the water. "It is! It is wet!" Mohammed shouted. "I can't believe it."

"Believe it," replied Rosco.

Mohammed and Rosco sat down in the nice, cool water and cooled off in the heat of the day. They were laughing and talking when Mohammed suddenly got an idea.

"Why don't we build a resort here, Rosco? We have plenty of water and we can get rich," stated Mohammed.

"Hey, man, that's a great idea," replied Rosco. "We can bring in tourists and we'll be rich in no time."

Mohammed and Rosco worked hard to build a beautiful resort oasis. They planted palm trees, flowers and bushes. They even built hotels, swimming pools, fast-food joints and recreation areas. Once they completed everything, they called their resort The Thirsty Camel. In no time, it became a booming resort. People came from everywhere to vacation there or just came for a weekend getaway. The thriving business made Mohammed and Rosco rich.

"Cheers to our old friend, the desert rat," toasted Mohammed as he turned up an ice-cold glass of tea.

"Bottoms up," snickered Rosco.

Mohammed and Rosco were living it up at The Thirsty Camel until one day they received a letter from the Blowing Sands Desert Pipeline Company. The letter informed them the pipeline company was going to shut the resort down because of a leak in their main waterline. The gush of water that came out of nowhere years before was actually a leak in one of the Blowing Sands Desert Pipeline Company's waterlines and they had just found the leak. Attached to the letter was a bill, a large water bill.

"Uh..., Mohammed," said Rosco. "What are we going to do?"

"I don't know," replied Mohammed. "We can't pay this bill. It will take nearly all our money. If the water is gone, so is the resort. And if the resort is gone, so is our income."

"Well, well, well," said Sandy as he suddenly popped up out of nowhere. "I see you two have done pretty well for yourselves since I saw you last."

"What do you want?" Mohammed asked.

"Oh, I don't know," he said as he looked around the resort. "I've heard a lot of good things about The Thirsty Camel and I thought while I was in this part of the desert I would come by and look around. I guess it wouldn't do any good for me to ask if you would want to sell it."

"Oh, I don't know," said Mohammed. "What do you think, Rosco?"

"No, I don't guess so," Rosco replied.

"I understand," Sandy said. "You do have a booming business here. If it were mine, I wouldn't want to sell it either."

"Exactly," agreed Mohammed.

Sandy reached down in his hole and pulled out Mohammed's old pocket-watch and dangled it in front of Mohammed and Rosco.

"Look, Mohammed, you said this pocket-watch belonged to your granddad and it was very sentimental to you. How about we do a little negotiating," Sandy stated.

"Well, there isn't much to negotiate. That old pocket-watch can't compare to this booming resort."

"But, listen. This pocket-watch sure keeps mighty good time!" Sandy said as he placed the watch up to Mohammed's ear.

Mohammed listened to the tick tock rhythm of the pocket-watch. It was like music to his ears.

"Well, do you think you might reconsider now?" asked Sandy.

"Well, I guess not," said Mohammed as he thumbed through a roll of money.

Mohammed and Rosco both noticed how big Sandy's eyes got when he saw the roll of money.

"But...," said Mohammed.

"But, what!" shouted Sandy.

"But, it was my granddad's watch and I would like to have it back. What do you think, Rosco?" asked Mohammed. "Should I trade the resort for the pocket-watch?"

"Yeah, it's a nice pocket-watch alright, Mohammed. However, this is a booming place," Rosco said. "We're going to miss out on making a lot more money."

"Don't listen to him," Sandy stated. "This is between you and me."

"It's a deal!" Mohammed exclaimed.

Mohammed grabbed the pocket-watch and within a matter of minutes, he and Rosco were completely out of sight.

"Suckers! Ham! I can't believe I tricked them again. They have to be the two biggest jerks I know," laughed Sandy, "ha, ha, ha, ha, ha."

As Sandy rolled in the sand laughing, the water to the resort suddenly shut off. Immediately, the water in the pools started evaporating, the palms were wilting and the grass was turning yellowish brown and dying.

"What is happening," he jumped up and yelled, "to my beautiful paradise!"

As he was looking around to see why the water shut off, he saw the letter from the pipeline company and the large unpaid water bill.

"Uh-oh!" he cried. "I'm in big trouble."

*****

Giggle Book Four

A Loss for Words

"Hey, dude," said Hound-dog as he approached his best friend, Cooty Scratch Carter, as he was putting his fishing gear in the bed of his pickup truck. "Give me five," yelled Hound-dog.

"Hey, man," replied Cooty. "What's going on, brother?"

"Ah, nothing, man, I just thought I would come over and see what's happening with you," said Hound-dog.

"I thought I might get a little fishing in today. Hey, man, do you want to come along with me?" asked Cooty.

"Sure, that'll be cool, man. I haven't been fishing in years," replied Hound-dog. "You sure have some neat fishing gear, Cooty."

"What it is, Hound-dog. You are my main man. Give me five. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. You are definitely what's happening," said Cooty.

"Peace, brother," replied Hound-dog.

They slipped into the pickup truck and Cooty cranked it up. He put it in gear and they took off down the road. Both of them were slouched down in the seat and leaned over with their elbows on the center console. They had the radio as loud as it would go. As they chug-a-lugged off to the creek, Cooty's afro blew in the wind and Hound-dog's big foot was propped upon the dash.

"Hey, man. I love that song. You know what I mean, Cooty," said Hound-dog.

"Yeah, me, too, I know where you're coming from," replied Cooty.

As they disappeared out of sight, in the far off distance, the pickup truck backfiring could be heard over the sound of the radio.

"Like, Cooty, where are we headed, brother?" asked Hound-dog.

"Well, Hound-dog, my main man, I sort of thought we would hang out at Swamp Creek. I caught the word from my brother that it is a cool place to fish."

"Cool, man," replied Hound-dog. "Let's go for it."

"There's the road right there," said Cooty. "My brother said to turn down Buttermilk Hollow, go about three miles and turn off on Wade Road at Hog Back Bridge. He said I could fish off the bridge."

"Wow, man," exclaimed Hound-dog. "That should be fun!"

The fishing gear in the back of the pickup truck bounced up in the air after they hit a pothole. As the pickup truck bounced up and down, Cooty's and Hound-dog's heads hit the ceiling of the truck.

"Ouch, brother," said Hound-dog. "Don't you think you need to slow down a little? You act like this thing's got wings on it."

"No, man, I got this under control," replied Cooty.

"Well, I have to admit, it is kind of fun," stated Hound-dog.

About that time, the pickup truck backfired again. Bang, pop, bang, pop went the pickup truck as it rolled on down the road with a cloud of dust behind it.

"Hang on, brother. We are almost there. Just chill out!" cried Cooty. "I'm about to bring this thing in for a landing."

"Man, this ride is totally awesome," cried Hound-dog with his head stuck out the window. "Aiyee," he yelled as he made faces.

Suddenly, Cooty slammed on the brakes. The pickup truck slid from side to side in the loose gravel. Cooty and Hound-dog looked at each other. They both swallowed quick and hard before they whispered a little prayer. Finally, the truck came to a screeching halt with gravel flying everywhere and dust hovering in the air. The hacking coughs of the two wild renegades could be heard from within the hovering dust.

"What it is, my man," coughed Cooty.

"Yeah, what it is," replied Hound-dog. "I think you were going a little too fast."

"Aw, man, I wasn't going that fast," replied Cooty.

"There it is," cried Cooty once the dust finally cleared. "There's the bridge. Come one, Hound-dog, let's get the fishing gear."

Cooty and Hound-dog walked to the back of the pickup truck to get the fishing gear.

"Cooty," Hound-dog said as he looked in the bed of the pickup truck.

"What's up, man?" asked Cooty.

"You've lost half of your fishing gear," replied Hound-dog.

"Say what! What'd you say, man?" cried Cooty as he looked in the bed of the pickup truck. "Man, I'm not believing this," he moaned as he stomped his feet and shook his head.

"Well, you didn't lose everything, Cooty. There's one cane pole, a rod and reel left."

"Aw, man," cried Cooty. "I just bought that stuff the other day."

"Really, dude. Do you want to go back and look for it?" asked Hound-dog.

"No, man, let's get some fishing done. I'll worry about that stuff later. But, you do have to admit, that ride was out of this world. Don't you agree," Cooty stated.

"It sure was, Cooty," replied Hound-dog. "It was groovy, real groovy. Come on, man, let's go fishing," said Hound-dog. "We'll pick up the other fishing gear on our way back."

"What did you say, Hound-dog? Did you say we'd pick it up on the way back? Yeah, right. That's if there's anything left."

"Chill out, brother," said Hound-dog. "Don't worry it. I'm sure it will still be there. Come on, let's do some fishing."

"Dude, I hope you're right," mumbled Cooty.

"Come on, man," motioned Hound-dog.

"Alright, you jive turkey," replied Cooty. "I'm coming."

Slowly, they made their way over to the bridge and sat down with their feet dangling off the side.

"Wow, man. How high up are we?" asked Hound-dog.

"I don't really know, dude," replied Cooty. "But, we are high enough. Look at those big hog suckers down below us, Hound-dog," said Cooty.

"Far out, Cooty, my man," stated Hound-dog. "Are you going to try to catch them?"

"You got it, brother. I am the man," replied Cooty.

Cooty picked up his cane pole with a grab hook on the end, swung it out from the bridge and into the water. He waited patiently for a nibble on his line.

"What's up, brother!" yelled Hound-dog.

"Shhh, be quiet, man," replied Cooty. "You're going to scare the fish away."

About that time, Cooty's line jerked. He had caught one of the hog suckers.

"Cool, man!" yelled Hound-dog as Cooty pulled the hog sucker in.

"I told you I was the man," cried Cooty.

"It's a fish. It's a fish, my brother," laughed Hound-dog. "You are the man."

"You won't do," giggled Cooty. "You just won't do."

Cooty slid another worm onto the hook. When Cooty swung the line around, the worm fell off onto the bridge. Zoom flew the line down toward the creek. Clu-thump it went when it landed on the creek bed.

"But...but...but," said Hound-dog.

"No buts about it, brother. Just take it and be ready when a fish bites on it."

"But...but...but," Hound-dog tried to say

Shhh," cried Cooty. "I want to snag some more hog suckers. If you don't be quiet, I'm not going to bring you again."

"Can you believe it, man?" yelled Cooty when his line snatched another hog sucker. "Alright, it's just like my brother told me. Check this baby out," he said as he held up the hog sucker.

"But...but...but," cried Hound-dog.

"Oh, I know, man. You don't have to tell me," said Cooty. "I have caught two fish and you haven't even got a nibble. What it is. What it is," Cooty chuckled.

Hound-dog tried to reel in his line but Cooty stopped him.

"Come on, man, you have to leave it out there for a while," explained Cooty. "Catch my drift, brother. Like, man, I've got a real feel for that spot. Yeah, man, that spot right there."

"But...but...," mumbled Hound-dog.

As the day went on, Cooty piled the hog suckers up and poor old Hound-dog couldn't even get a nibble on his empty hook. And he couldn't get a word in edgewise either because Cooty was too busy bragging about his catch or fussing and complaining about his lost fishing gear. Every time Hound-dog tried to reel his line in, Cooty would stop him. He'd make him lay it down and wait.

"I'm trying to take care of you, brother," Cooty explained. "Haven't I always taken care of you, my man? Be patient; I've got a real feel for that spot. You watch, my man, and see if old Cooty doesn't come through for you. Yeah, brother, give me five."

"But...but...but," cried Hound-dog.

"Don't try to thank me, man. Just wait until your big catch comes in."

Hound-dog just dropped his head. He didn't know what to say or do. He was at a loss for words. He decided the best thing for him to do was shut up, be still and wait. So, he did.

After a while, Cooty looked over at Hound-dog and said, "Hey, dude, what's your problem? You don't have anything to say to me?" asked Cooty. "I hope you're not mad because I caught all the fish?"

Hound-dog just sat with his head down and shook it from side to side.

"Say something!" shouted Cooty. "After all I have done for you; you're going to treat me this way. We have been friends for years, man, and you do me like this. Ooh, you jive turkey."

"But...but...but," replied Hound-dog.

"Oh no, my man, don't start that again. That's all you have said since I cast your line out," said Cooty. "Don't you know any other words besides but? Ooh wee, brother, I just snatched another one," bragged Cooty. "You need to get a little life about you, Hound-dog. Put some pep in your step. Eat a little soul food. Cheer up, brother! Get some life in them old bones," Cooty chuckled as he danced about the bridge. "It's time to get down, get down. Hey, Hound-dog, since you're in such a bad mood why don't we blow this joint and go get something to eat? Maybe that will cheer you up. Hold on, brother. I think you got a bite," Cooty said as he ran over and jerked the rod out of Hound-dog's hands.

"But...but...but," Hound-dog said.

"Will you shut up, man," screamed Cooty. "Come on, Hound-dog. I've had enough fishing for one day," Cooty said with frustration. "Man, no wonder you haven't caught anything, Hound-dog" said Cooty. "You have let the fish eat all your bait, duh!"

"But...but...but," replied Hound-dog.

"Oh come on, man," motioned Cooty. "I don't want to hear it."

*****

Giggle Book Four

Oops!

It was summer in the little town of Shady Grove when the children were outside playing games and having fun. Shady Grove was a small country community isolated from everything else. As a child growing up there, it was like living in a whole other world. Everybody knew each other and they were all friends; it was a happy little town. Toward the end of summer, right before school was scheduled to start, was when it happened. Stories are still told to this day about what happened that one summer night.

It was late in the day when Skip, Raymond and David got the biggest idea they'd ever had. They decided to take Jonathan (Oops) Bradley snipe hunting. They thought it would be fun to play a trick on him.

Oops was a skinny little boy who stood tall for a twelve-year old. He got his nickname, Oops, when he was little. It is said that every time he dropped something he'd say oops so everyone started calling him Oops.

That day, the three boys got their story together to convince Oops to go snipe hunting with them. The plan was for them to take him through the woods behind the old Brewington Farm at midnight and leave him in the open field in the middle of the woods holding a bag to catch the snipe with.

"I can just hear him now," laughed Skip. "I bet he'll be crying five minutes after we leave."

"Wait until he hears the creepy night sounds in the darkness," stated David.

"Yeah, I wonder what he'll say then?" asked Raymond. "Oops!"

"Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha," they all laughed.

"What's going on, guys?" Oops asked when he walked up.

"Oh, nothing much," Raymond replied.

"Well, there is something," said Skip.

"What?" Oops questioned.

"Well, the guys and I were thinking about hanging out late tonight. Like really late," said Raymond.

"We thought you might like to hang out with us," interrupted David.

"Sure!" replied Oops. "Wait a minute, how late?"

"Oh, maybe 10, 11, 12 o'clock," replied Skip.

"More like midnight," spoke up Raymond.

"It's supposed to be a full moon tonight," stated David. "You're not scared are you, Oops?"

"Oops is a scaredy cat," they all chanted.

"I am not," cried Oops. "I'm not a scaredy cat. So, if I come, what are we going to be doing?"

"We are going snipe hunting," answered Raymond.

"What is snipe hunting?"

"I'll tell you later," said Skip. "That's if you decide to show up."

"I'll be there," replied Oops. "Where do you all want to meet?"

"Do you know where the old Brewington Farm on Hog Back Hollow and Winding Ridge is?" asked Skip.

"Yep," said Oops.

"Be there tonight at midnight," instructed Skip. "We'll meet you at the barn and explain everything then."

"And don't be late," cried out Raymond.

"Oops is a scaredy cat," mocked David as the boys walked off laughing.

Midnight, thought Oops. I don't know about that. I don't know, he mumbled to himself. But, I'll be okay because they will be with me. Plus, I can't let them know I am scared. They'll never let me live it down if they find out how scared I am. Snipe huntingwhat in the world is a snipe!" he thought. Oh well, even if I am scared, it sounds like fun anyway.

The day soon passed and night finally fell. Skip, Raymond and David were excited about the trick they were going to play on Oops.

"I think he's scared," said David. "Did you see the look on his face when we said midnight?"

"Yeah, did you hear his weak trembling voice when he said he wasn't a scaredy cat," laughed Raymond.

"Well, there's one thing about it," said Skip. "We'll see tonight if he's a scaredy cat or not."

"That's if he shows up," cried David.

As the evening passed, Oops thought about going snipe hunting at midnight. I wish I had never said I would go, he thought to himself as he looked out the window at the dark night. But, I have to go now. I told them I would and if I don't they will tell all my friends and they'll laugh at me. As midnight quickly approached, Oops slipped out his bedroom window and headed for the old Brewington Barn. It sure is creepy out here, he thought to himself as he hurried down the road. As he walked on, he thought he heard something. He turned and looked over his shoulder as his little feet picked up the pace. He walked faster and faster. He looked to his right and then to his left before he looked back over his shoulder. His walking eventually turned in to a trot.

"Aiyee!" he screamed when he thought he saw something out of the corner of his eye.

"Who's there?" he asked as his little heart raced.

"Oops, over here," called out Skip.

Oops was relieved when he turned around and saw Skip, Raymond and David over by the barn.

"Come on," motioned Skip. "You're going to scare the snipes away."

Oops hurried over to Skip, David and Raymond. He was so happy to see them.

"Glad you could make it," Skip said.

"Yeah, we didn't think you'd come," said Raymond.

"Well, I'm here," replied Oops. "Tell me what I need to do. I'm ready to go."

"Oh, you are," said David. "We'll see about that."

"Okay this is what we are going to do. We are going through the woods behind the barn to the big open field in the middle of the woods," explained Skip. Oops, you will stand out there in the open field holding open this grass sack. Raymond, David and I will go back into the woods and run the snipes out to you in the open, moonlit field. When you see the snipes coming toward you, you'll use the grass sack to catch them."

"But...but...but," Oops interrupted.

"Oh, I know what you're going to ask. They won't hurt you," said Raymond.

"Oh, no," David snickered, "they won't. I have never heard of them hurting anyone."

"But...but...but, what do they look like?" asked Oops. "So I'll know what to catch."

"Oh, you'll know," said Skip. "When they start coming, you'll know. The main thing is to be ready at all times. You have to stay alert and be on your toes. But, whatever you do, don't leave the middle of the field until we get back."

"What are we going to do with them when we catch them?" asked Oops.

"Well, let's catch them first. They are really smart and clever. Oops, you have a keen eye and that's what it takes. They're quick and they'll get by you if you're not careful so you're going to have to be even quicker. You'll probably have only one chance at each snipe. Remember, stay alert and be on your toes," instructed Skip.

"Okay," replied Oops. "I'm ready. I'll be alert and on my toes at all times. Trust me, I won't let you down."

The boys made their way through the woods behind the barn to the open, moonlit field.

"Okay, we are here," said Skip. "Oops, here's your grass sack. Don't forget to be alert and ready because we're going to run the snipes this way."

"Okay, Skip. I'll be ready," replied Oops. "I'll do my best to catch as many as possible."

Skip, Raymond and David disappeared in the darkness. They laughed and made fun of Oops amongst themselves.

"Are you still there, Oops?" yelled Skip.

"Yep, I'm still here," cried Oops. "Y'all are coming back for me, aren't you?"

"Sure!" yelled Raymond. "Don't worry, we'll be back."

As their voices faded in the darkness of the night, Oops stood all alone in the middle of the open, moonlit field. Suddenly, out of the night sky, an eerie screeching sound sent a chill up Oops' spine.

"Aiyee!" screamed Oops.

Frantically, he searched the night sky for snipes even though he had no idea what they looked like. Oops didn't really know if what he heard were snipes or something else. However, one thing he knew for sure was that he was scared.

"Skip, Raymond, David, are you still out there?" he cried out.

All was silent in the field except for the chirping of crickets and a few ribbets and croaks of the frogs in a nearby pond.

"Skip, Raymond, David, are you out there?" cried Oops.

The air was still and there was no response. Oops stood all alone in the middle of the open, moonlit field holding the grass sack in his hands. His little legs shook as he nervously looked around. His lower lip quivered and tears formed in his eyes. But, he didn't say a word. He just stood still and looked out across the sky. Suddenly, he heard the haunting eerie sound again. Errrrr went the sound as it moved across the field. Ku-thump, ku-thump, ku-thump raced Oops' little heart. Quickly, he got inside the grass sack, covered his head and hoped whatever it was wouldn't see him and would go away. Errrrr went the screeching cry again before a dark shadow hovered over Oops as he hid in the grass sack. The screeching cry echoed throughout the open, moonlit field and weaved its way through the dark woods.

"What was that?" asked Skip.

"I don't know," replied David. "But, I think we need to get out of here and make our way back home."

"Hurry, this way," said Raymond.

"No, we need to go that way," cried David.

"I don't know which way is which," cried Skip. "I think we're lost."

Errrrr went the loud screeching cry again as it bounced its way through the trees.

"Come on guys. Let's get out of here!" screamed Raymond.

As the dark shadow hovered over Oops, he sat still as a mouse. Tears filled his eyes and eventually ran down his cheeks and onto the tall grass.

"Please go away," he whispered under his breath. "Please go away."

Suddenly, the dark shadow swooped down toward Oops, grabbed the grass sack and picked it up. Oops was terrified as the dark shadow flew across the moonlit night sky with the grass sack in its grasp. Up high above the trees in the moonlit night sky, the dark shadow flew. I wonder if a snipe has me, thought Oops. The dark shadow flew across the field and circled above the woods.

"Look up there," David yelled.

"What is it?" asked Raymond.

"I don't know but we need to run a little faster!" exclaimed Skip.

As the shadow lurked high above the trees, Skip, Raymond and David searched frantically for a way out of the woods. Oops tried to yell for help but he was so afraid he could only whisper.

"Aiyee!" screamed the boys as the shadow shot down toward them and drove them further and deeper into the woods.

Errrrr went the sound again as the dark shadow shot high into the moonlit night sky and disappeared.

"What on earth was that?" cried Raymond.

"I don't know," replied David. "But what about Oops? Come on, guys. We need to go back and get him. We just can't leave him out here by himself."

The boys returned to the field. They yelled and yelled for Oops but he didn't answer.

"Where could he be?" asked Skip.

"I don't know," replied David. "Maybe he got scared and went home."

"Do you think that thing got him?" asked Raymond.

"I don't know," replied Skip. "But, he's not here so there is nothing we can do about it. Let's go home."

It was late the next morning by the time the boys finally found their way home. They rushed over to Oops' house to see if he was all right. When they got there, he was sitting on the porch.

"Thank goodness you are alright," Skip said with relief.

"What are you talking about?" asked Oops.

"Uh...nothing," replied Raymond, "nothing at all."

"Are y'all just now getting home?" asked Oops.

The boys didn't say a word. They just dropped their heads and started to walk away. But, Oops stopped them and told them what happened to him as he waited in the field for the snipes. The boys were amazed when he told them the shadow brought him home and then disappeared in the night. They didn't know if they could believe him or not.

"Yep, it must have been one of those what-cha-ma-call-it things," said Oops.

"A snipe," replied Skip.

"Yeah, a snipe," laughed Oops. "Or, it could have been a screech owl. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha," he laughed and then said, "Oops!"

*****

Giggle Book Four

Two Peas in a Pod

It was Friday night when Cooty Scratch Carter and his best friend, Hound-dog, cruised along the main strip in the little town of Happy Springs. They laughed and had a ball as they circled the courthouse and tooted the horn at the old men sitting by the courthouse steps whittling. Honk, honk, honk went the horn as they tooted and waved at the old men each time they circled by.

"Now, there's a couple of guys who are one brick shy of a full load," one of the men stated.

"Yep," replied another. "I'd say their elevator doesn't go all the way up."

"Wouldn't it be good to be young again," one of the men said as he laughed and smiled.

After Cooty and Hound-dog circled the courthouse for the last time, they sped down the main strip in their old white pickup truck with the radio blasting; they were listening to WLS in Chicago that played Motown sounds.

"Hey, man," said Hound-dog. "I can really dig that song," he said as he reached over and turned the radio up louder.

"What it is. What it is, my brother," replied Cooty. "It's the Soul Brothers."

"Hey, brother, what's happening?" asked Hound-dog when the pickup truck began to cut out, miss and jump.

"I don't kn...ow," replied Cooty, "but it doesn't sound good. Aw, man, we are out of gas," cried Cooty as he looked at the gas hand.

"Come on, brother. Are you sure?" asked Hound-dog. "This is Friday night and we need to look cool. We can't look cool if we are pulled over to the side of the road in a pickup truck that is on empty."

"Oh, shut up, Hound-dog," replied Cooty. "And, I'm not your brother."

Cooty coasted the pickup truck over to the side of the road on Wind Curve Circle, next to Duncan's Diner. Cooty put the pickup truck in park and he and Hound-dog got out and sat down on the hood of the pickup truck, fussing.

"Hey, Hound-dog, I thought you were my main man," said Cooty.

"I am," replied Hound-dog. "Give me five."

Slap went their hands.

"Like, man, how much money you got?" asked Cooty as he dug deep inside his pocket.

"I don't know, brother. Let me see," replied Hound-dog as he dug deep inside his pocket.

Cooty and Hound-dog pulled their hands out of their pockets, put their hands together and opened them to reveal what money they had.

"Now, my main man, let's see what we have here. Ten, twenty-five, thirty-two cents," counted Cooty. "This is ridiculous," cried Cooty. "Thirty-two cents is all the money we have between us."

"Yep, Cooty, that's it unless you miscounted," replied Hound-dog. "Here, let me count it," Hound-dog said as he reached over and took the money from Cooty. "Ten, twenty-five, thirty, thirty-one cents," he counted. "Hey, dude, I counted thirty-one cents."

"Say what!" yelled Cooty. "Let me see that money again."

Cooty took the money in his hand and counted, "Ten, twenty-five, thirty, thirty-one, thirty-two, thirty-three cents. Where did that extra penny come from?"

Hound-dog just snickered and placed his hand over his face.

"Thirty-three cents," said Cooty, "is all we have."

"Cool," replied Hound-dog.

"How is that cool? Thirty-three cents won't by us enough gas to turn the engine over," stated Cooty.

"What are we going to do?" questioned Hound-dog.

"What's going on, boys?" asked Doc, the owner of Duncan's Diner, when he came out to see what was going on. Are you boys having a little trouble?"

"No...no...well...maybe...a little trouble," Cooty replied.

"What seems to be the problem?" Doc asked.

Cooty told Doc they had run out of gas. He also told him it was Friday night and they needed to be cruising along the strip instead of sitting on the side of the road in a pickup truck with no gas.

"Would you boys like to earn some gas money?"

"Sure, I mean, yes, sir," Cooty cried. "We'd love to. I mean, man, what do we have to do?"

"Well, I would like to have a fresh frog legs special next week," said Doc. "If you could get me some, I would gladly pay you handsomely for them."

"Hey, man, I think we can get you some frog legs with no problem," Cooty said. "Hey, just leave it to us. We'll take care of it. We'll hop right on it. We'll jump right to it. Yeah, man, like no problem. Like, man, how many do you want? We'll get all you want; I mean need for your frog leg special next week.

"Well, let's see how many you bring back first," replied Doc. "And here is a little money for gas to get you started.

"Alright!" they yelled in unison.

"Thank you, Doc. Thanks a lot. Can you believe this, my man? It's cruising time in the city!" yelled Cooty.

The two went to get some gas, gassed up the old pickup truck and went back to cruise the main strip.

"Hey, dude, have you ever been frog gigging before?" asked Hound-dog.

"No, I can't say I have," replied Cooty. "But, it can't be that hard."

"Hey, man. How many legs does a frog have?" asked Hound-dog.

"Two," replied Cooty. "I think."

"Awesome," replied Hound-dog.

The next night, Cooty and Hound-dog jumped into the pickup truck and headed for Pondville to do some frog gigging. As the little white pickup truck sped through the night, they suddenly came to a screeching stop.

"Hey, man. I think I just passed Skillet Creek Road," said Cooty. "That's the road that dude said the frog pond was on."

"Yeah, man, I think it was. It's sort of spooky out here," stated Hound-dog. "I sure hope he was right about being able to catch a lot of frogs out here."

Cooty slowly backed up, turned on to Skillet Creek Road and pushed the gas pedal to the floor. Zoom, they took off down the road like a flash of light.

"If you see it, yell," said Cooty.

"See what?" asked Hound-dog.

"The pond, the frog pond," cried Cooty.

"Okay," cried Hound-dog. "Okay!" he screamed.

About that time, Cooty hit the brakes and the truck went into a skid. As they held on and screamed for their lives, the pickup truck slid off the side of the road and stopped at the edge of the pond with the front tires in the water.

"I thought you were going to tell me when you saw it," said Cooty.

"I tried," replied Hound-dog. "I kept saying okay but you kept on going. Didn't you see the Slow, Pond Ahead sign on the side of the road? Come on, man, back up."

Ribbitt, ribbitt, ribbitt, croak, croak went the frogs. As Cooty backed the pickup truck up, Hound-dog tapped him on the shoulder.

"What is it, now?" asked Cooty.

"Listen," Hound-dog said.

The darkness of night surrounded them and the sounds of the night echoed from within the darkness. The frogs croaked and ribbitted, the crickets chirped and in the far off distance the cry of the whippoorwill could be heard.

"Hey, man, this place gives me the creeps," said Cooty.

"Yeah, I know what you mean," replied Hound-dog.

Hurriedly, they grabbed their gigs, turned their flashlights on and shined them across the pond. The light pierced the darkness and revealed the cattails that stood bold along the banks of the pond.

"Look over there in them cattails," Hound-dog softly whispered.

"I don't see anything," replied Cooty.

"Over there," pointed Hound-dog as two little heads quickly disappeared into the mossy water.

"Oh, that was a mud turtle," replied Cooty. "What about over here?" he said as he shined his light on a hollow log lying partially in the water and partially upon the bank.

Sure enough, there were three frogs staring back at them.

"Shine your light on them so they won't move," instructed Cooty. "You go that way and I'll go this way."

"You got it, dude," replied Hound-dog.

Carefully, they eased around the pond and slowly crept up behind them. They slowly eased back their gigs to gig the frogs but before they could gig them, their feet slipped out from under them. They slid down the bank and splashed into the water. Croak and ribbitt went the frogs as the crickets chirped and the whippoorwills went whippoorwill.

"Good grief!" yelled Cooty. "I can't believe this."

"I know, man. I thought we had them," Hound-dog said as he made his way back to the bank. When Hound-dog thought he was close enough to the bank, he stood up. But, when he did, he got stuck in the mud. When he tried to lift his feet out of the mud, his shoes came off.

"Aw, man," said Hound-dog. "I'm beginning to wonder if a little gas money is worth all this trouble."

"Oh, hush your whining you little wimp," Cooty looked back at him and said.

However, that was before Cooty felt something moving in his shirt pocket. He opened his shirt pocket with two of his fingers and saw some tadpoles swimming around in his pocket.

"Aiyee," he screamed as he rushed out of the water with the tadpoles splashing out of his pocket.

"Now, who's the little wimp?" asked Hound-dog.

"Well, we have lost our gigs," said Cooty. "Now, I guess we'll have to catch them by hand."

"Cool," replied Hound-dog.

Cooty got an idea and whispered it to Hound-dog.

"Right on," said Hound-dog. "We'll show them."

Carefully, Hound-dog eased into the water; down he went. He cautiously eased underneath a frog sitting on a lily pad. Cooty shined his flashlight toward the frog's eyes as Hound-dog slowly lifted the lily pad with the top of head. When he lifted the lily pad, Cooty was able to snatch the frog with the fishing net.

"Hey, man, this is working great," exclaimed Cooty.

"Shhh," hushed Hound-dog as he eased underneath another frog sitting on a lily pad.

As the night slipped by, they caught the frogs one by one. Then it happened, the worst of the worse. As Cooty shined his flashlight about the pond, they noticed all the frogs had put on sunglasses.

"You might as well come on out, Hound-dog," said Cooty. "This gig is up."

"Aiyee!" Hound-dog screamed and hurried out of the water toward the bank.

Startled, Cooty turned around to see what was wrong. A snapping turtle had Hound-dog by his nose. Hurriedly, Cooty rushed over to help him.

"Ouch!" Hound-dog cried when Cooty pulled the turtle off his nose.

"Hound-dog what are we going to do now?" asked Cooty.

They both sat and thought for a while. Within minutes, Hound-dog had an idea. To keep the frogs from hearing, he whispered it to Cooty.

"I think they will fall for it, don't you," Hound-dog said.

"Who is smarter, the frogs or us?" asked Cooty.

"Right now, I don't know," replied Hound-dog. "But, we'll see."

Cooty and Hound-dog got down on all fours and started playing leapfrog around and around the pond. The frogs ribbitted, croaked and watched them. Suddenly, one and then two frogs joined in the game. Before they knew it, three, four and five frogs were hopping around with them. Around and around they went, one by one over the other. When the frogs leaped over Cooty, he would catch them in a fishing basket. Soon the basket was full and the pond was silent of croaks and ribbitts. All that was left was the chirping of crickets because the whippoorwills had flown off sometime during the night. Since they had caught all the frogs, they loaded up the pickup truck, put the basket of fish in the bed of the truck and headed down Skillet Creek Road to Duncan's Diner.

"Well, I guess we showed them frogs, right, Cooty," said Hound-dog. "Now we know we're the smartest."

"Yeah, man, I can't wait to get that moolah so we can cruise the strip again."

"Right on!" shouted Hound-dog.

It didn't take them long to get to Duncan's Diner. Doc was waiting for them. He was eager to see how many frogs they had caught.

"Hey, Doc," Cooty yelled when he drove up and saw Doc standing outside.

"Did you boys get me some frog legs?" asked Doc.

"Well, sir, we got you some frogs with legs," said Hound-dog, "like you wanted."

"You did," replied Doc. "Let me take a look and see what you got."

Cooty went back to the bed of the pickup truck and flipped open the lid of the fish basket. Doc quickly peeped in to see what they had.

"Is this some kind of joke, boys?" he asked. "There are no frogs in here."

"What! What did you say?" asked Cooty.

"I said there are no frogs in the basket."

Cooty and Hound-dog both looked in the basket and sure enough the basket was empty.

"That's impossible," cried Cooty. "I put those frogs in the basket myself. You saw me, Hound-dog."

"Yeah, man, I saw you," replied Hound-dog. "We had a basket full of frogs."

"Well, you don't now," replied Doc as he reached over and picked up the basket. "Well, here's your problem. There's a big hole in the side of your basket," said Doc. "As soon as you were putting them in the basket, they were slipping out the hole," he explained before he started laughing. "Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha," he laughed.

"We're sorry, Doc," said Cooty. "It was dark and we assumed the basket was okay. We'll pay you back the money you gave us."

"Oh, don't worry about that. It was worth the good laugh. You boys are like two peas in a pod. I'll order me some frog legs from the local food company."

"Man, can you believe that," said Cooty.

"Well, I guess the frogs were smarter than us," Hound-dog snickered.

"I guess so," laughed Cooty.

On a warm summer night, out on Skillet Creek Road, the ribbitt, ribbitt and croak of the frogs along with the chirping of the crickets and the lonesome cry of the whippoorwill can still be heard in the darkness. And if you listen close, the giggle of the frogs still laughing about Cooty's and Hound-dog's night on the pond can be heard as well.

*****

Giggle Book Four

Inside a Sea Shell

It was a beautiful day as Andrew walked along the beach picking up sea shells and kicking the sand with his feet. I'm bored, he thought. I wish I had something new and exciting to do. I'm tired of starfish and sand dollars, he thought as he bent down, picked up a pebble out of the sand and threw it as far out into the ocean as he could.

"This is no fun," he said as he turned away from the ocean and went to find a place to sit down. "Ouch!" he yelled as he grabbed his foot.

What did I step on, he wondered. When he looked down, he saw a big, beautiful sea shell.

"Wow! That's the biggest sea shell I have ever seen," Andrew exclaimed.

Andrew reached down, picked up the sea shell and looked at it with amazement.

"This will be a great addition to my collection," he said. "I don't have one like this," he said as he placed the sea shell up to his ear and listened.

"Pssst, hey, you up there," came a voice from inside the sea shell.

"Huh!" cried Andrew. "Who said that?" he said as he took the sea shell away from his ear.

To make sure he wasn't imagining things, he placed the sea shell against his ear again and listened.

"It's me, kid. I'm inside the sea shell," came the strange voice once more.

"Me who?" asked Andrew.

"Gabby," said the voice. "Hold on a minute and let me get a hold..."

"Ouch!" screamed Andrew as he pulled the sea shell away from his ear.

"Now, that's so much better," said Gabby as he dangled from Andrew's ear.

Quickly, Andrew reached up and snatched the small crab from his ear.

"Be careful," said Gabby.

"Who are you?" asked Andrew. "Why did you pinch my ear?"

"Oh, I am Gabby the crab. Who are you?"

"My name is Andrew but you can all me Andy," Andrew answered.

"I'm terribly sorry, Andy, for grabbing your ear. I didn't mean to hurt you but that was the only way I could get out of the sea shell. I had almost worked my way out before I got stuck. I had no other choice but to grab your ear and pull myself free," he said as he cleared his throat. "And also, Andy, if you must know, I got stuck in the sea shell in the ocean and then I was washed upon the shore. Can you imagine that?"

"No, I can't," replied Andrew. "And, crabs can't talk."

"I didn't think you could either," said Gabby. "One thing I do know, Andy, you have closed your heart and mind to your imagination. That's why you're so bored. That's why things are no longer any fun for you."

"What do you mean?" asked Andrew.

"Well, for instance," said Gabby. "I'm sure you have heard the old tale that if you put a sea shell against your ear and listen you can hear the ocean."

"So," replied Andrew. "What about it?"

"It may be true, but there is more to the old tale than you know."

"There is," stated Andrew as he slipped Gabby into his shirt pocket.

"Yep, Andy," replied Gabby while he cleaned his glasses. "The inside of a sea shell is another world. It is an adventure like you would never believe. Inside a sea shell your imagination is free to live. Andy, my boy, you can do anything that you put your mind to."

"Wow!" said Andrew. "That sounds great but how can a boy like me fit inside a sea shell?"

"Why, that's no problem," said Gabby. "I can help you. Not only am I a reddish-orange colored crab with eight legs, two pinchers and wear glasses, I am magic."

"You are," said Andrew, "for real?"

"I am, Andy," replied Gabby, "for real."

"Will you help me get inside the sea shell so I can see this other world?" asked Andrew.

"Sure, Andy, I thought you would never ask," answered Gabby. "First, put me on your shoulder so I can hang onto your collar. That's right, Andy. Now, hold the sea shell with both hands, close your eyes real tight and hold your breath."

"Like this, Gabby?" asked Andrew.

"Yeah, that's it, Andy. Now all you have to do is think small, real small and let your imagination run wild," instructed Gabby.

"I feel like I'm getting smaller and smaller," cried Andrew.

"That's good," replied Gabby. "Don't be afraid. You'll be alright. When I count to three, slowly open your eyes and your heart so your imagination can run free."

"Okay," said Andrew.

"One, two, three, you're on your way," cried Gabby.

Andrew opened his eyes and found himself inside the sea shell. He was so tiny he slid down, down, down the long curly shaft of the sea shell. Around and around he went as he tumbled over and over and moved from side to side.

"This is fun," laughed Andrew, "weeeee!"

"We're almost there, Andy," yelled Gabby. "On this last curl in the shell, move closer to the wall."

"Okay," screamed Andrew. "You got it."

Carefully, Andrew eased closer to the wall of the sea shell.

"Be careful, Andy," said Gabby as he inched over as well.

Bang! Andrew pounded against the wall and ricocheted off.

"Easy, Andy," instructed Gabby. "Think soft."

Andrew tried again to get closer to the wall of the sea shell. He eased over, landed on the outside of the curl and slid on the seat of his pants.

"Weeeee!" screamed Andrew and Gabby.

When they reached the end of the curl, they soared high into the air.

Andrew cried out, "I can fly. I can fly. Oops! Where are we, Gabby?" asked Andrew after they splashed into the water.

"You are in the sea shell's ocean," answered Gabby. "Don't you remember hearing it when you put the sea shell against your ear?"

"Uh-huh," said Andrew.

"Well, this is it," said Gabby. "This is what you heard."

"Whoopee!" yelled Andrew as they splashed and played in the water. "Look, Gabby. I can hold my breath and go under the water," said Andrew.

"Me, too," laughed Gabby.

Andrew dove under the water and saw another world; it was beautiful. The coral reefs and the crystal blue water were so beautiful. And so were all the different colored fish that swam about. Andrew loved it when the fish swam up to him and nibbled on his nose. As Andrew was swimming around enjoying the scenery of the ocean, Gabby let out a loud whistle. Immediately, a seahorse came out from behind a rock.

"Get on," yelled Gabby.

"You got it," cried Andrew. "Let's go."

As they zoomed through the water on the seahorse, they saw a sunken ship being guarded by a shark.

"I wonder if there is any sunken treasure in there?" asked Andrew.

"It's all in your imagination," replied Gabby. "The treasures of the reefs are yours to believe."

Next to a nearby the reef, Andrew saw a blowfish and a baby stingray. But, his joy was short lived when he noticed a swordfish headed toward them. Luckily, it turned back and they were able to get away. Up, up, up they flew.

"This is the greatest," Andrew shouted as he shot up out of the water for air.

Suddenly, Gabby sensed something lurking near them. He searched across the ocean with his eyes and noticed something in the water coming straight toward them.

Quickly, Gabby turned to Andrew and said, "Andy, put me on top of your head. Hurry!"

"Do what?" a confused Andrew asked.

"Hurry, Andy. Hurry!" yelled Gabby.

Hurriedly, Andrew placed him on top of his head.

"Hold still, Andy," Gabby said as he looked around. "Just what I thought, it's the eel twins, Slick and Slimy. And unfortunately, they're headed this way."

"Who are they?" asked Andrew.

"You see, Andy," explained Gabby as he crawled upon a leaf that was floating in the water. "Oh, don't worry, Andy. Just crawl up here with me and you'll be safe."

"Crawl upon a leaf!" said Andrew. "I can't do that."

"Oh, yes you can," replied Gabby. "Think, Andy, think. Use your imagination and get up here!"

Andrew barely made it onto the leaf before the eel twins moved in.

"Well, Slimy. What have we here?" asked Slick the eel as he chewed on a cud of seaweed.

"I don't know, Slick," replied Slimy, "but they are in for a big shock."

"Who are they?" asked Andrew. "What do they want?"

"They are the eel twins and you don't want any part of them," said Gabby.

"Slick, let's give them a little charge. Shall we?" laughed Slimy.

"Why not," laughed Slick as he spit seaweed at Gabby who had made his way inside Andrew's shirt pocket.

Gabby quickly grabbed hold of Andrew's collar and pulled himself up out of the way.

"Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha," Slick and Slimy laughed as they disappeared under the water.

"I'll get you the next time," warned Slick.

"Don't touch the water, Andy. Stay on the leaf," instructed Gabby.

Andrew could see the eel twins swimming around them creating an electric flash in the water. Eventually, everything was quiet and still.

"I think they're gone," said Andrew.

"I believe you're right," replied Gabby. "I'm glad, too."

"Gabby, after all the excitement, I'm tired and sleepy," stated Andrew. "I believe I'll lie down and take a nap."

"That sounds like a good idea, Andy. I believe I'll rest some, too."

Andrew and Gabby floated peacefully in the ocean. As time passed, Andrew and Gabby slept. Suddenly, Gabby awoke because he felt something was wrong; it was too quiet. Quickly, he crawled over to the edge of the leaf and looked over the side. He could see a large, black mass moving in fast.

"Andy, Andy," cried Gabby. "Wake up."

Without warning, the large, black mass shot up out of the water.

"Andy, Andy!" yelled Gabby.

"Huh! Aiyee," screamed Andrew as the octopus grabbed at his leg.

Frantically, Andrew struggled and fought to get free.

"Aiyee," he screamed as Gabby pinched the octopus' legs to keep it from wrapping its legs around them.

"What am I going to do?" Andrew cried.

"Tickle him under his arms," replied Gabby.

Because of all the struggling they were doing with the octopus, the leaf turned upside down and they all fell into the water. Andrew tickled the octopus as much as he could while Gabby pinched its legs. Finally, the octopus couldn't stand it any longer; he had to let Andrew and Gabby go. As the octopus slowly disappeared out of sight, Andrew and Gabby darted up out of the water gasping for air. They had nearly drowned.

"Get back on the leaf!" yelled Gabby.

"That was close," shouted Andrew.

As Andrew and Gabby climbed back upon the leaf, the sky became dark and the water became troubled.

"It looks like a storm is coming our way," stated Andrew.

"I believe you're right," Gabby replied.

The angry waves moved in quickly and tossed them back and forth. Andrew and Gabby held tightly to the leaf as it danced upon the waves.

"We are not going to make it," cried Andrew.

"Hold on, Andy," replied Gabby when he realized what was happening. "Andy, stop shaking the sea shell," cried Gabby. "That's why we are rocking back and forth so much. And take your hand off the opening of the sea shell so the light can shine through."

"Oh, Gabby, I'm sorry. I must have slipped back in to reality," he explained as he took his hand off the opening of the sea shell.

"That's better, Andy," said Gabby as the water became calm and the sky lightened up.

"Gabby, I'm homesick," said Andrew. "I want to go home. Don't you?"

"Are you sure you don't want to imagine anything else, Andy," replied Gabby.

"I'm sure," said Andrew. "Are you coming home with me, Gabby?"

"No, I'm afraid not, Andy," answered Gabby. "I have to stay here. Besides, there will be someone else who will come along and listen to the sea shell and they, too, may want to imagine what it's like inside a sea shell."

"I'm going to miss you, Gabby," replied Andrew. "I had a lot of fun."

"I'm going to miss you too, Andy," said Gabby. "The world is without end, Andy. However, you have to open yourself up to it."

"I see that now," said Andrew. "There's one thing about it, I won't be bored anymore."

"Okay, Andy. I will get you back home."

Gabby took his pincher, stuck it in the water and stirred. Slowly, the leaf moved around and around.

"Close your eyes, Andy, clear your mind, tilt your head up and think about home. I'll count to three and then you can open your eyes. Are you ready?"

"I'm ready," whispered Andrew.

"One, two, three," counted Gabby.

After three, Andrew opened his eyes and he was standing on the beach once more.

"There she blows," yelled Andrew as he looked out across the ocean at the giant whale spouting off.

With the sea shell in his hand, he silently thought for a moment, bent down and placed the sea shell in the sand.

"Goodbye, Gabby," he said. "You belong to everyone."

Giggle Book Four

Punkin

The sweet fragrance of the summer flowers softly filtered through the windy summer breeze as the fresh aroma settled on the little town of Pleasant Valley. Everyone was excited about summer, especially the children. They were fishing, swimming, riding bikes and playing games of all sorts. It was a fun and pleasant time for everyone except Ricky and his little sister, Jenny. Ricky was a small red-headed, freckled face boy with a space between his teeth. That day as Ricky stood in the doorway of Jenny's bedroom, he had on jeans, a baggy shirt and a baseball cap turned backwards on his head. He watched Jenny as she lay in bed sick. Jenny's long, blond curls resembled springs and her little, pug nose stuck out between her golden brown eyes. Her mom and dad stood helplessly by her side and hoped for a change in her health.

"Her fever hasn't come down," stated her mother as she laid her head on her husband's shoulder.

"Now, now," he replied comforting his wife. "Punkin will be alright. It's probably only a bad cold."

He sat down next to Jenny, gently pulled the cover up about her neck and kissed her on the forehead.

"Daddy, I don't feel too good," she said.

"I know, Punkin," replied her Dad. "You have a bad cold and it has about gotten the best of you. But, keep your chin up, girl. Trust me, you'll get better soon."

"You promise, Dad," she whispered.

"I promise," he replied.

Punkin's mom and dad left the room but Ricky continued to stand in the doorway. As he stood there feeling sorry for his little sister, he thought to himself, it's not fair for Punkin to be sick in bed sick while everyone else is out having fun. It's just not fair, he said to himself. I wish there was something I could do to help her, he thought. But what, what can I do? Just as Ricky was about to leave the doorway, he looked out Punkin's window and saw two beautiful bluebirds perched on a limb, chirping away. He hunched his shoulders and frowned before he looked back at Punkin, winked and nodded.

"I'll think of something, Punkin, you'll see," he whispered as he quickly ran to his room and flopped down on his bed.

Quickly, he ran to his room and flopped down on his bed.

"What can I do to make her feel better?" he mumbled as he rolled from side to side, thinking. How can I surprise her? I just don't know what to do," he said in frustration as he lay on his back looking up at the ceiling. "Surely there's something I can do," he mumbled as he reached for his comic book lying on his nightstand and started thumbing through it.

"That's it!" he suddenly yelled.

Ricky's eyes sparkled and his smile stretched from ear to ear as he read the article in the comic book.

"Long Leggs' and Short Step's Backyard Clown and Magic Show," he exclaimed. "I wish I could get them to come and put on a show for Punkin," he said. "I know that would cheer her up."

Ricky jumped up off his bed, dashed across the room to his desk and began to write a letter to Long Leggs and Short Step. He explained to them about Punkin being sick and how he wanted to cheer her up and make her feel better. Chirp, chirp, chirp sounded the two little bluebirds outside Ricky's window as they watched him write the letter.

"Now, what address do I mail it to?" asked Ricky.

He looked in the old comic book; the address had been torn off. He frantically looked through his other comic books for the address. However, he couldn't find it.

"Now what!" he grumbled.

Frustrated, Ricky wadded up the letter, threw it down on the desk and stormed out of his room. Silence filled the air in his room until the two little bluebirds flew through the open window and land on his desk. One of them pecked at the waded up letter and tried to pick it up. The other one scooted his beak under the wad and lifted one end of the waded up letter. The other bluebird quickly grabbed the other end of the waded up letter with his beak and they both flew out the window with it. Up, up high toward the clouds they flew to search the countryside for Long Leggs and Short Step.

Finally, hours later, as they circled the nearby town of Summerville, they spotted some people camping out and flew in for a closer look. They perched upon a limb above the campers and listened as the two men talked; it was Long Leggs and Short Step.

Long Leggs was a tall, thin man with long hair, bushy eyebrows and long legs that stretched out in front of him as he walked. His long arms dangled by his side. He was quick with his hands and his fingers worked wonders as he practiced his sleight of hand.

Short Step was short with chubby legs and tiny feet that caused him to always walk behind Long Leggs at a slower pace. His round face shined, his eyes sparkled and the little mustache above his upper lip tickled his nose.

"What are we going to do now, Long Leggs?" asked Short Step. "We are stuck here without enough money to get back home."

"I don't know," replied Long Leggs. "Since we've finished our tour, I don't know what we'll do to earn some money."

"If we only had some money or another show," whined Short Step, "we'd be okay."

"Yep, you're right, Short Step, but we have no money or no show lined up. Money or shows don't just fall out of the sky," Long Leggs stated.

The bluebirds decided to drop the waded up letter; it bounced off Long Leggs' head and fell at his feet. Long Leggs looked down and picked up the waded up paper.

"Where did this come from?" he asked as he looked up and saw the bluebirds fly away.

"What is it?" asked Short Step.

"I don't know. It's all waded up," replied Long Leggs.

"Well, hurry up and open it," demanded Short Step.

Long Leggs gently opened it and began to read. Short Step leaned over his shoulder and read the letter also.

"Wow!" shouted Long Leggs. "Can you believe that?"

Short Step shook his head from side to side and then looked up.

"It fell out of the sky. It's a miracle," he yelled. "What do you think, Long Leggs?"

"Punkin and Ricky live in Pleasant Valley," said Long Leggs, "and that's only a couple hours away. We should have enough money to get there. If we do a show, maybe we will get enough money to get back home."

"Let's go for it!" shouted Short Step.

"Why not!" cried Long Leggs. "We don't have much of a choice because we need the money to get home."

Later on that day, back in Pleasant Valley, Ricky came out of his house and sat on the porch steps. He had all but given up hope on trying to do something special for his sister when, suddenly, he heard a loud bang and rattling noise coming down the street. He jumped up and ran out in to the yard to see what it was. He couldn't believe it. It was Long Leggs' and Short Step's Clown and Magic Show truck coming down Raindrop Lane. Long Leggs and Short Step pulled up in front of Ricky's house and got out of the truck.

"Are you Ricky?" asked Long Leggs.

"Uh huh," Ricky replied with a nod.

"Is this Raindrop Lane where Punkin lives?" smiled Short Step.

"Yes, sir," said Ricky with a half smile. With a tear in his eye and a quivering voice he asked, "How did you know?"

Long Leggs slowly turned, bent down and whispered to Ricky, "A little bird told me." Long Leggs put his finger across Ricky's lips and shook his head, "Shhh, it's a secret. Now, Ricky, where is that little sister of yours?" asked Long Leggs.

"She's in her room," cried Ricky.

"May we go in and see her," asked Short Step.

"Sure, but let me ask my mom and dad first," Ricky replied.

However, Ricky's mom and dad had already stepped out onto the porch to see what was going on. Ricky ran to them and told them what he had done and that Long Leggs and Short Step were there to do a show in the backyard for Punkin. Ricky's mom and dad invited Long Leggs and Short Step inside. They took them to Punkin's room. Ricky's dad explained to Punkin who Long Leggs and Short Step were.

"You are a pretty sick little girl," said Long Leggs.

"I know," she said. "But Daddy said I will get well; he promised."

"You know, Punkin, I believe your dad is right," replied Long Leggs as he reached behind her ear and pulled out a quarter.

"Wow!" yelled Ricky.

Punkin giggled and said, "I believe I'm feeling better already."

"On with the show," cried Ricky.

Long Leggs and Short Step pulled their truck into Ricky's backyard and started setting up for the show. Ricky ran out of the house and headed down the street to tell all his friends. The news of Long Leggs' and Short Step's show traveled across Pleasant Valley like wild fire.

The next day, the little house on Raindrop Lane was packed with kids from everywhere, even Summerville. The crowd had gathered and eagerly waited for the show to begin.

"On with the show, on with the show," the crowd chanted.

The backyard clown and magic show was only a small show. To the children, however, when it was show time, it was the biggest show on earth. There were peanuts, popcorn, cotton candy and balloons of all colors. There were also dogs, ponies, even a monkey and a baby elephant, too.

"On with the show, on with the show," the children shouted.

The clowns were amazing; you wouldn't believe your eyes. There were tall ones, small ones, fat ones, thin ones, happy ones and sad ones.

Punkin smiled and waved her little hand as she sat on her daddy's lap. Her fever had finally broken and she felt so much better.

Ricky yelled out, "Woo, woo, woo," as he passed a hat around to collect money for the show.

"Ladies and gentleman," yelled the ringmaster.

Immediately, a hush fell in the backyard as the children quietened down to hear what the ringmaster was saying. Suddenly, boom, boom echoed throughout the neighborhood. The backyard show had begun. Everyone was shouting and laughing. Even Punkin, sitting on her daddy's lap, was giggling and laughing. Ricky and his friends could not sit still. They were bouncing up and down like a yo-yo and waving their hands.

The clowns were hilarious and Long Leggs' sleight of hand was unreal. He took the children's breath when he pushed an egg in one of his ears and out the other. But when he did it to Punkin, the crowd erupted in cheers. But, when that crazy Short Step tried the egg trick it didn't turn out so good. As he tried to push it in his ear, it cracked and ran down the side of his face.

"Yuck, yuck, yuck," the crowd chanted as Short Step stood in front of them with egg on his face.

The grand finale was the most hilarious. Long Leggs took a magic wand and tapped it three times on his top hat, slowly swirled it around and around. The children had no idea what he was about to do.

"Hocus Pocus," Long Leggs yelled as he pulled a rabbit out of his hat...then another...then another...!

Short Step was hiding under the table and accidentally knocked the rabbit cage over. Rabbits ran everywhere which ended the show. Children were running all around the backyard chasing rabbits.

"That was quite a performance, Long Leggs," said Ricky's dad.

"Well, thank you, sir. It didn't end like I had planned," laughed Long Leggs.

Ricky's dad offered to pay Long Leggs for coming. But, he wouldn't take it.

"Thanks, sir. This show was on the house," smiled Long Leggs. "It was worth it all to see Punkin smile."

"Here, Long Leggs, this is for you," cried Ricky as he ran up with a box in his hand. "It is for all you have done."

"What is this, Ricky?" asked Long Leggs.

Long Leggs opened the box. It was filled with money.

"Ricky, you didn't have to do this," Long Leggs said. "I wasn't charging for the show. I wanted to do it for Punkin."

"It should be enough to get you home," said Ricky.

Long Leggs shook his head and asked, "How did you know?"

"A little bird told me," replied Ricky. Then he placed his finger over Long Leggs' lips, shook his head and said, "Shhh, it's a secret."

Long Leggs winked his eye at him as if to say okay and smiled. Punkin gave Long Leggs and Short Step a hug as the two little bluebirds flew high up in the sky.

Giggle Book Four

The Camel with the Sore Hump

The driving winds stirred up a sandstorm just a few miles from the little town of Omer. The storm pressed hard against the traveling caravan, blinding them. As the storm raged on, they had no other choice but to take shelter. Oooooo howled the wind as it twisted, twirled and danced its way about the Wandering Sand Desert. Heavily burdened and wore down, the Far East Moving Company bedded down and patiently waited for the storm to pass.

"How long do you think it will blow?" one of the caravan workers shouted.

"I don't know," replied Mohammed Kokobea, the caravan boss, as they squatted down by the wagon. "It shouldn't be too long. That's why they call it Wandering Sand Desert, because one minute it's here and the next minute it's somewhere else."

Oooooo shot the wind as it ricocheted off the sand dunes and spread the sand high into the air. Oooooo howled the wind.

Meanwhile, in a little huddle at the end of the caravan, a group of camels were waiting out the storm.

"Ali, what do you think?" asked one of the camels.

"Think about what?" replied Ali Moo Moo, the lead camel.

"The storm," said the camel. "What do you think about the storm? Do you think we'll get blown away?"

"Not in your life," replied Ali. "If you've seen one sandstorm you've seen them all, Knucklehead."

"Yeah, but...but this is a bad one. A bad, bad one," said the camel as his knees knocked and bowed with the howl of the wind.

All the other camels listened and never said a word.

"But...but...but," replied the camel.

"Just wait and see," snorted Ali. "Wait and see. Storm, storm, storm; who cares about the storm! I'm tired of breaking my back moving everything from one place to another. I need a rest or a vacation so I can put up my feet and rest my sore hump."

The other camels stood quietly, listened and chewed their cud.

"Hey, guys," said Ali. "Why are you looking at me with those blank faces? Aren't you tired and worn out from all this moving, packing, walking and carrying? I'm so tired I could scream. I believe I will, Aiyee!"

The other camels stood quietly, looked at him with a blank look and chewed their cud.

"I believe we all feel that way, Ali," replied the camel. "But, what can we do? It's our job, our life and our way of living. What else can camels do?"

"Well, you can do what you want to. However, I'm going to find me a way out. You can stand around with those long, blank faces, knock knees and sore humps all you want to. But for me, put it down, I'm gone."

"But...but...but...but," said the camel.

"There are no buts about it. This is my last tour," boasted Ali.

"Cool," replied the other camels as they slowly looked at each other and then went back to chewing their cud.

Suddenly, the wind vanished in to thin air as the grains of sand slowly floated back down to the ground. There was not a stir or even a puff of wind left and the air was hot and dry.

"You see, you see. What did I tell you?" bragged Ali as the other camels got back into the caravan.

Another camel stopped, looked back and said, "No matter what they say, you're my main man, Ali Moo Moo. You're my main man."

"Okay, you lazy bunch of camels!" shouted Mohammed Kokobea. "It's time to get moving! I want to make it to Omer before dark," he instructed. "Besides, the storm has put us behind. Move it! Move it!"

"Hold your tater," replied Ali. "What's ya big hurry? I'm doing the best I can."

"Let's go, Ali," shouted Mohammed. "Move it, Moo Moo."

As Ali and the others headed out for Omer, he couldn't help but think about getting out of the caravan. He was bound and determined to find a way out.

"Let's go, Ali!" shouted Mohammed. "Pick up the pace."

Good grief, man, you're always dogging me, Ali thought to himself. Doesn't he ever give up? The caravan had slowly disappeared over the horizon when Ali got a bright idea.

"I know what to do," said Ali. "I've found my way out. I'm a genius," he whispered.

Once the caravan finally stopped for a break, Ali put his plan in motion. This is it. This is the right time," he thought. Suddenly, Ali fell down in the sand.

"Oh, oh, oh," he moaned.

"What is it? What's wrong?" all the other camels cried as they rushed over to him.

Hurriedly, Mohammed ran to see what was wrong with Ali.

"Oh, oh, oh," cried Ali.

"What is it?" asked Mohammed. "What's wrong?"

"It's my hump," cried Ali. "It hurts me so bad. It's so tender and so sore."

The others quickly removed the packages from his back and Ali let out a sigh of relief.

"That feels so much better," he said.

"Well, well, well," Mohammed said as he kneeled down and gently rubbed Ali's hump with his hand.

"What is it? What's wrong?" the other camels asked.

"I don't know for sure," he said, "but I'm afraid Ali has the dreaded sore hump syndrome."

"Oh my, the dreaded sore hump syndrome," they all cried. "Oooh...wee," that's bad."

"What is the dreaded sore hump syndrome?" one of the camels asked Mohammed. "We all have sore humps from packing these heavy loads. I thought a sore hump was just part of the job."

"Oh, oh, oh," moaned Ali.

"But, he's in so much pain," the camels sympathetically said.

Mohammed stood to his feet, slightly touched Ali's hump and winked to the others.

"The dreaded sore hump syndrome is a syndrome that camels get when they have been overworked and overloaded," Mohammed explained.

"I didn't know that," said one camel.

"Me either," said another. "I believe I've got that."

"Me, too," said the others.

"Oh, oh, oh," cried Ali. "It hurts me so bad."

"Mohammed, is there a cure?" one of the camels asked.

"Yes," he replied. "There is one thing that usually helps."

"Will it help Ali?" one of the camels asked.

"Yes, it might," replied Mohammed.

"Well, what is it?" they all cried.

"Ali will need to stay off his feet and relax for about two weeks," stated Mohammed.

"Cool, man," said one of the camels. "I can dig that. Like I said, Ali, you're my main man. You're a real cool dude."

"What are we going to do?" asked the other camels. "We can't leave him here alone."

"We'll divide his load and when we get to the next oasis, Omer, we'll leave him at Restful Oasis with Dr. Fignutt," said Mohammed.

"Who is that?" one camel questioned.

"He's the sand doctor or desert quack. He runs the Restful Oasis Desert and treats the dreaded sore hump syndrome. Plus, he's a friend of mine. Okay, everyone, stand back and give Ali some room!" shouted Mohammed.

As Ali staggered to his feet, he moaned and groaned. He rolled his eyes back in his head, buckled his knees and staggered about.

"Is he going to be able to make it?" asked one camel.

"Sure," replied Mohammed. "I believe he's feeling better already. The break is over. Let's get back to work."

Slowly, the caravan took off with Ali bringing up the rear. It wasn't long before they entered Omer where they would rest a while before they moved on. Mohammed rushed Ali over to Dr. Fignutt's office and explained Ali's symptoms to him. Dr. Fignutt understood clearly what the real problem was.

"Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha," he chuckled. "Oh, I see," he said as Ali moaned and groaned.

"Oh, oh, oh," Ali moaned even louder.

Mohammed told Ali that he was in good hands and he would stop on the way back and pick him up.

Ali moaned, "Okay."

"Now, let's see Ali Moo," said the doctor.

"Uh, excuse me, doctor. That's Moo Moo, with two Moos," Ali corrected Dr. Fignutt.

"Ah, yes," he replied, "it is. Well, Ali, does it hurt when I do this?"

"Oh, oh, oh, oh," cried Ali. "Don't do that."

"Well, what about this?" asked the doctor.

"Oh, oh, oh, oh," cried Ali. "Don't do that either."

"Yes, I see," said the doctor. "That's very strange. What about when I do this?"

"Oh, oh, oh!" screamed Ali. "You can stop now. I'm feeling much better. My hump is not quite as sore."

"But...but, Ali Moo," said Dr. Fignutt.

"Excuse me, sir. That's Ali Moo Moo with two Moos," stated Ali.

"Oh, yes. Yes, I forgot, Ali," replied the doctor. "I'm afraid you don't have the dreaded sore hump syndrome."

"I don't," cried Ali. "Then what do I have a brilliant mind?"

"No," replied the doctor. "I'm afraid you're suffering from flearooitishtaphy."

"What in the world is flearooitishtaphy?" questioned Ali. "I can't have that because I feel fine."

"It is caused from a sand flew bite. If it doesn't get treated quickly, the outcome could be terrible," explained the doctor.

"But...but, doctor. I'm fine. I just made....it all up," cried Ali.

"No buts about it," said Dr. Fignutt. "That's what you have. A sand flea bit you at some point during the trip. Plus, you look awful."

"I do?" questioned Ali.

"Yes, you do," replied the doctor.

"What will happen if I don't get help soon?" asked Ali.

"Are you sure you want to know?" questioned Dr. Fignutt.

"Yes, I do," replied Ali.

"Your hump will shrink and disappear," Dr. Fignutt stated.

"My hump will shrink and disappear!" screamed Ali.

"Yes, I'm afraid so," replied the doctor.

"But...but...but, I can't lose my hump. It's my life, my trademark, my..." cried Ali. "What's a camel with no hump? What's a leopard with no spots? What's an elephant with no trunk?"

"Victim of flearooitishtaphy," said Dr. Fignutt.

"Oh, doctor. Oh, doctor, you have to help me!" screamed Ali. "I'll be the laughing stock of the desert, the joke of the year and a has been. Can you help me, doctor?" he begged.

"Yes, but only if we caught it in time," replied the doctor. "But, your hump already looks like it has shrunk."

"Help me, doctor. Please help me," cried Ali. "Tell me it's not too late. Tell me it's not flearooitishtaphy. Oh, please tell me you have made a mistake."

"Well, Ali Moo," said Dr. Fignutt.

"Uh, that's Ali Moo Moo with two Moos, thank you," retorted Ali. "Oh, it doesn't matter anymore!" screamed Ali. "One Moo, two Moos or more, it just doesn't matter. Just help me get well."

"I'll know for sure in about two weeks. The only way I'll know if I made a mistake is if you still have your hump after two weeks have passed," stated Dr. Fignutt. "We just have to wait and see."

"Okay, I'll do whatever!" shouted Ali. "Tell me, doctor. Please tell me what to do."

"Well, let me see," said the doctor. "What to do about camels with flearooitishtaphy. Oh, yes, yes indeed, camels," he said as he flipped through his medical book. The first thing I'll have to do," Dr. Fignutt said, "is register you in the Palm Tree Hotel."

Palm Tree Hotel, thought Ali. That doesn't sound bad. Maybe this won't be as bad as I thought. As they headed down the street toward the outskirts of town, Ali saw an old, vacant rundown barn and a corral up ahead.

"There's the Palm Tree Hotel right there," Dr. Fignutt pointed and said.

"What, are you crazy!" shouted Ali.

Dr. Fignutt dropped his head, slightly turned his eyes up a bit and asked, "You don't want anyone else to catch it do you?"

"Oh, no, no, no, I wouldn't," he cried. "But...but..."

"You'll be alright. You only have to be quarantined for two weeks. If you still have your hump at that time, then I have made a terrible mistake," he said.

"But...but..." said Ali.

"Oh, yes, one other thing, don't fall asleep," replied Dr. Fignutt. "If you fall asleep, you could be bitten by some more sand fleas. You definitely don't want that, do you?"

"Oh, no, no, no, not that," Ali said with a quivering voice.

Day after day and night after night, Ali stood in the corral and wondered if his hump was shrinking. From time to time, Dr. Fignutt would come by to check on him. As the days passed, Ali thought about what he had done to Mohammed and his friends; he felt ashamed. He wished he had never played sick to get out of work and there was one thing he knew, he would never do it again. Finally, the long awaited two weeks were over. As Ali struggled to stay awake, Mohammed and Dr. Fignutt came to check on him.

"Well, I see you are alright," said Mohammed. "You still have your hump and you look so much better, too."

"Yes, yes indeed. I must have been wrong," Dr. Fignutt stated.

"Well, I'm sure glad you were," said Ali.

"Are you well enough to travel?" asked Mohammed.

"I sure am!" shouted Ali. "I'm ready to pack my load."

"Well, come on," said Mohammed, "and get your old place in the caravan back."

Ali shot out of the corral and hurried over to his friends. They were all glad to see him.

"You really did cure him," laughed Mohammed.

"Yep! I don't think you'll have any more trouble out of him," said Dr. Fignutt.

"Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha," they both laughed.

Giggle Book Four

The Clock That Ran Backwards

"But...Mama, do I have to go to sleep?" asked Anthony.

"Yes, you do," she replied. "You have a big day tomorrow."

"I sure do," he said. "I can't wait to go to the zoo and see all the animals. You know, Mama, I don't know which one is my favorite. I like them all. But, the giraffe is really something to see."

"Well, you can see them all tomorrow," she said. "But for now, my little man, it's time for you to go to sleep."

"Goodnight, Mama."

"Goodnight, little man. Sweet dreams," she said as she turned the light off and closed the door.

As Anthony lay there in bed, he tossed, tumbled, twisted and turned. He even slipped to the foot of the bed and wiggled and squirmed. Time after time, he looked at the clock and listened. Tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock ticked the clock as he twisted and turned some more. Tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock went the clock as the night slowly passed by. His big brown eyes got heavier and heavier as he watched the clock. He wished time would hurry up and pass so he could wake up and go to the zoo. The room was blanketed with silence except for the ticking of the clock. All was still as Anthony's heavy eyes finally shut and he fell asleep. Tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock went the clock. He had slept a while before he suddenly woke up.

"Where am I?" he asked. "What is all that noise?"

Tick-tock, tick-tock, bong, bong, bong, ching, ching, ching, coo-coo, coo-coo, tick-tock, tick-tock sounded throughout the room. Then there was a giant, loud dong, dong, dong, dong. Anthony counted 12 dongs. He looked around and saw hundreds of clocks. There were big ones, little ones, square ones and round ones.

"Where am I?" he asked as a clock that ran backwards ran up to him.

"Excuse me, sir," said the clock. "Did I hear you correctly? Did you ask where you were?"

"Why, yes," said Anthony, "I did. Where am I and who are you?"

"Well, first of all, sir. You're in Tick-tock Valley; the land of misuse and forgotten time. I, sir, am Hans. I'm a clock that runs backwards. I have three hands and still can't get anything done. I'm running backwards to make up for lost time now. I am always going and I never stop. I am always pointing and I always feel run down. My hands are always crisscrossing this way and that. I'm wound up and running wild. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha," he laughed. "I bet you won't believe this? My little hand is trying to keep up with the big hand and the second hand is running off and leaving them both. Isn't that the craziest thing you have ever heard?"

"I guess so," said Anthony. "It doesn't matter. I can't tell time anyway."

"Oh, well, time will tell."

"But, Hans, excuse me," said Anthony. "How can I get back home? I'm going to the zoo tomorrow."

"Well, well, well," replied Hans. "Now, let's see. Let's see. You want to go home, you say."

"Yes, sir," Anthony responded.

"Well, I don't know how you are going to get home," said Hans. "I don't know. I really don't know."

"But what am I to do?" Anthony asked. "I don't want to miss going to the zoo."

"Well, let me see," said Hans. "Tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock," he went. "I've got it," said Hans after he had stood for a minute and thought about the situation. "We'll go talk to the clockmaker."

"The clockmaker," a puzzled Anthony said. "Who's that?"

"He's the guy who always fixes things. That's where I was going before I stopped to talk to you. I wanted to ask him why I am running backwards," replied Hans.

"But where will we find him?"

"Well, right down that road over there," said Hans.

"Winding Way Road?" asked Anthony.

"Why yes! Why yes!" shouted Hans. "Down that road, I believe so. Come on, come on, Anthony; let's go."

Hans grabbed Anthony by the hand and they took off down Winding Way Road. As they made their way down the road, the valley echoed with tick-tocks, bongs, clings and coo-coos.

"Hans, Hans, Hans!" shouted Anthony. "Why are we in such a hurry?"

"Why, my boy, my boy, we must hurry. We must hurry for time is running out."

They hurried their way through the valley until they came upon the clockmaker sitting beside the road.

"Mr. clockmaker, Mr. clockmaker," said Hans. "Could you help us with this dilemma we're in?"

The clockmaker stopped and paused a moment, slightly tilted his head and said, "Why, what is it, my friend?"

Hans explained to the clockmaker that he was running backwards and that Anthony wanted to go home so he could go to the zoo. Taking everything in to consideration, the clockmaker thought about the situation from all sides. After carefully evaluating the situation, the clockmaker leaned back, scratched his head, tilted forward a slight bit and then told Hans and Anthony what he thought.

"Well, well, well, my little friends. Hans, the reason that you are running backwards is because the little boy can't go to sleep. He is watching the clock instead of sleeping. He wants time to pass quickly so he can go to the zoo tomorrow. Because he is staying awake it is causing time to go backwards instead of forward."

"But, sir," said Hans. "How can I go clockwise?"

"Well, Hans, you have to wake Anthony from his sleep and the only way you can do that is you have to set your alarm to go off and wake him up. When he wakes up, he will be at home and you will start going clockwise again."

"But, how can I sound the alarm and awaken him when I am running backwards?"

"Well, let me see," said the clockmaker.

The clockmaker tried to set Hans' hands but he couldn't. He tried to set his alarm but he failed. He even tried to unwind him but he was wound too tight.

"Oh, meoh, my," said Hans. "Will I have to stay like this forever?"

"I don't know?" replied the clockmaker with a puzzled look. "I've done all I can. You'll have to ask the clockmaker up the road and see if he can help you with your dilemma."

Hurriedly, Hans and Anthony took off. They didn't have a minute to waste.

"Tick-tock, tick-tock," went Hans as he and Anthony rushed up Winding Way Road.

It didn't take them long to find the clockmaker up the road. When they found him, he was looking inside a bottle.

"Mr. clockmaker, Mr. clockmaker, will you help us please?"

The clockmaker paid them no mind.

"Excuse me, sir," said Anthony. "Would you help us please?"

"Why, yes. Why, yes; maybe I can," he replied.

Hans and Anthony told the clockmaker what was going on. The clockmaker stepped back and giggled.

"A glass jug; oh, meoh, my," he said. "My friends, my friends, let me explain to you what I do. I save time in bottles. I take care of late time, overtime, time wasted and time forgotten. I just don't believe, friends, that I can help you at all. Why don't you try the clockmaker up the way and explain your situation to him. He may be able to help you."

"Do you think he can?" asked Anthony.

"Well, I really don't know," said the clockmaker as he looked in the bottle of timeless memory and smiled.

Just down the way, Hans and Anthony came upon the third clockmaker going through a bag beside the road.

"Mr. clockmaker, Mr. clockmaker!" yelled Hans.

"Shhh," hushed the clockmaker. "Be quiet. Can't you see I'm very busy with these wheels, gears, gadgets, old sprockets, coils, springs, nuts, bolts and screws?"

"But, but, but," said Anthony.

"Shhh," hushed the clockmaker. "I have no time to talk and lollygag. If you must know anything, go see Father Time."

"I'm never going to get home," whined Anthony. "I'll never wake up so I can go to the zoo."

"Now, now, now," comforted Hans. "We'll go see Father Time and hopefully he'll be able to help us. Just look at it this way, Anthony. You have plenty of time on your hands to get back home. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha," he laughed.

"Well, I guess you're right," Anthony replied as he looked around.

Tick-tock, tick-tock, tick-tock went the clocks as they rushed to find Father Time. Finally, they came upon Father Time asleep beside the road.

"Father Time, Father Time!" yelled Hans and Anthony as they tried to awaken him.

"Uh, what is it! What is it!" he cried as he suddenly awoke and rubbed his eyes.

Once again, they explained to him what was wrong. Father Time sat for a moment and rubbed his long, white beard.

"Can you help us? Will you help me get back home?" cried Anthony.

"Why, I don't see why not," replied Father Time. "This, my child, is how it is done. Now, listen friends and listen close. First I must set your clock hands, Hans, for the time Anthony needs to awake and stop you from running. When you stop running, Hans, hold your tocks and ticks. By stopping you, it will force Anthony to wake up since he wants the next day to come so he can go to the zoo."

As Father Time set Hans' hands, Hans held back his tocks and ticks. When Hans stopped, Anthony twisted, turned, squirmed and wiggled in his bed. He didn't hear a tock-tick or a tick-tock. Suddenly, the alarm went off. Ringalingling, ringalingling it sounded.

"Whoopee!" yelled Anthony as he jumped up out of bed. "Mama, Mama," he cried. "I'm ready to go to the zoo!"

And the clock that ran backwards went clockwise once more.

*****

Discover other children's titles by Bobby A. Troutt at Smashwords.com

Giggle Book One

Giggle Book Two

Giggle Book Three

Jawbreakers, Bubble Gum and Stick Candy

Bobby A. Troutt is a southern writer who writes a variety of short stories and children's books.
