

SMASHWORDS EDITION

Smashwords Edition, License Notes

Thank you for downloading this free ebook.

Although this is a free book, it remains the copyrighted property of the author, and may not be reproduced, scanned or distributed for commercial or non-commercial purposes. Quotes used in reviews are the exception. No alteration of content is allowed. If you enjoyed this book, please encourage your friends to download their own copy at their favourite eBook retailer.

Your support and respect for the property of this author is appreciated.

This book is a work of fiction and any resemblance to persons, living or dead, or places, events or locales is purely coincidental. The characters are productions of the author's imagination and used fictitiously.

This eBook contains material suitable for Adults only

About the Author

Other books by the Author

Get in touch with the Author

Hello, my friend

Hello my friend here we are at the end of the first of our story but for you this is just the beginning.

I am glad we are here together.

We make a great, no actually we make a spectacular team and you will see that very soon.

I cannot spend too much time talking to you my friend as they will be coming for me soon to take me to the judgement room.

I have big plans for all those that will be present in the room, don't you worry my friend.

I know what you are thinking 'why does she call me her friend? She doesn't know me! Is she crazy?'

Firstly we do know each other very well and secondly am I crazy? If that means I know what I want and I go and get it, yes my friend I am crazy and proud.

You will remember our friendship by the end of our journey together.

I'm going to miss this cell, I know that sounds unusual but I find my cell cosy and I see my cell as my platform while I wait to board my train.

"Anna Gerard please prepare yourself for collection in five minutes" Chief Prick disturbs my thoughts, standing with his back to my cell.

"Yes Sir" I sarcastically said, mocking a salute.

Do you want to know a secret my friend?

Because of who I am and what I did no one dares to search me, they must be idiots.

Anyway I think we should begin, are you sitting comfortably my friend?

Now we shall begin our journey through our story, hold on tight, it's going to be an exhilarating ride.
Chapter One

My alarm clock lights up like a firework on bonfire night and screams animal noises into my hungover sensitive ears, I really wish we hadn't gone out to the pub last night.

Turning my head to the side I smiled when I saw Gregg's handsome face which slowly turned into a mischievous grin.

Moving the curve of my ass against his morning erection, I heard him growl in my ear.

"Good morning handsome, can we please spend this Monday in bed, pretty please" I tiredly whispered.

Gregg responded by moving his hand down my stomach and onto my clit where he mercilessly rotated his thumb.

Kissing my neck, Gregg moved his hand onto my breast, pulling at my nipple.

Arching myself into the groove of his body, I groaned with pleasure as I felt the pressure build up from inside of me.

Removing his hands from my body Gregg quickly flipped me onto my back and plunged his cock deep inside of me.

Slowly he began to thrust in and out with measured movements until I was quivering with pleasure under him.

"Now beautiful" Gregg gruffly commanded and we both released out climaxes at the same time.

Rolling off of me Gregg had a huge grin on his face.

"That is what I call a wake up work out" Gregg smirked over at me before moving off the bed and nakedly walking to our wardrobe opening the door he pulled me out a dress and threw it at my face before pulling out a suit for himself.

"It will be the weekend before you know it gorgeous" Gregg flashed me a smile before going into our en suite.

Sighing to myself I slowly rolled out of bed, stretching like a cat to attempt to wake myself up.

Walking down our corridor I ran a hand through my hair before entering our main bathroom.

Looking into our mirror above the sink I shocked myself at my hungover and overall shit appearance.

My hair resembled a toilet brush; I had panda eyes: and the remnants of drawl were visible down my chin and around my mouth.

Walking into our shower cubicle I gave a pleasurable moan as the warm water cascaded down my back.

Facing the shower head I allowed the warm water to wash away the mess on my face and almost instantly I felt awake.

Finishing in the shower I almost fell on the floor as I missed the bathroom mat and slipped on the bathroom tiles.

"Fuck sake" I screamed with pure annoyance, was this a sign for the rest of my Monday?

I bloody hope not.

Throwing on the red dress Gregg gave me from our wardrobe, I wondered if I was going to be cold as according to what I remembered about my phones weather last night 'there would be a cold feel to the blustery northerly winds' and this dress was strapless and slightly exposed.

I might have to dig out my scarf and long boots.

When I had finished drying my hair I went back into our bedroom and found Gregg texting quickly on his phone.

"Who are you texting?" I innocently asked.

"No one" Gregg answered, quickly putting his phone in his trouser pocket.

"Ok, I'm off now I will grab a coffee on the way otherwise I will be late and that will give Tom an excuse to fire me, he is such a dick" I explained before kissing Gregg on the forehead.

"Anna, I love you" Gregg huskily randomly said, holding my hand.

"Love you too but I really have to go" I smiled blowing him a kissing, running out our bedroom.

Grabbing my handbag, jacket and scarf and throwing on my boots I quickly made my way out our home and onto our street.

Suddenly my handbag began to sing.

"Someone clearly wants you" Jeff my next door neighbour smiled at me.

"Have a nice day Jeff... Hi mum" I waved at Jeff while answering the phone call from mum.

"Your dad wants us to buy a canal boat" Mum basically screeched down at me.

"I don't have time to discuss another one of Dad's ideas" I said to mum who literally growled at me down the phone.

"But Anna!!" Mum screeched desperately.

"I'll call you later" I replied before putting down the phone.

Entering the first cage I found, I was instantly stopped in my tracks by what or shall I say who I saw.

I mean could this Monday get any worse?
Chapter Two

I cannot believe she works here! That son of a bitch with the face of a horse who used to pick on everyone at school because her mum owned a posh car which made her apparently rich.

She was and I am sure she still is a complete twit.

I don't want to leave the queue for coffee as my urge for a caffeine boost has definitely hit me and I turn into a moody bitch if I do not replenish which my arrogant boss hates.

Therefore I decided to distract myself by looking around at the café, which I must admit I had never noticed on my route to work before.

I noticed how old and dated the furnishings were the place looked like it needed either investment or to be burnt down to the ground.

Wrapping my scarf further around my neck I shivered when another customer entered the café, cascading ice cold winds across all those awaiting service.

Turning my attention back to the bitch serving everyone I gazed at her features.

She had changed dramatically since we were at high school, I guess wearing cake on her face would distract customers from the cake she was supposed to serve.

Una was chubbier than I remember, not that I can talk I am hardly a size 10 but she always used to bully people for having a little bit of puppy fat now look at her.

I never usually judge people but Una deserves every judgement, you know what they say about karma, bitches like her get what they deserve in the end.

"Where's my coffee?!" A drunken homeless man spits all over the serving counter after pushing in at the front.

"Gerald we have told you before we cannot give you free coffee" An older women stood next to Una said kindly to the homeless man.

"What happened to...to gestures...this country is full of shit..." The homeless man shouted, waving his hands around like a banshee.

"I am sorry Gerald" the older women said before giving the homeless man a big smile.

"Stupid...suited...pricks" The homeless man muttered as he waddled past those waiting in the queue.

"I was once in...in the war!!! I served...!!!" The homeless man shouted before yanking the door open and slamming it behind him leaving the rest of us customers with a stench of alcohol in the air.

Suddenly I felt my phone vibrate in my pocket, taking my phone out, I discovered it was my manager who I immediately hung up on.

It wasn't like I was late, I was due in work at 08:30am and it was currently 07:45am.

He probably wanted me to make him a drink or go buy him a breakfast baguette, asshole.

Looking at my messages I realised that Gregg had text me _'Lets go out tonight for dinner, my treat xx'_ which instantly made me smile.

Gregg was always caring and put me first.

Texting him back I put _'That sounds like a fantastic idea but please not that Indian takeaway the repercussions were not very romantic last time ;-)'_

Smiling to myself I ran my finger across my mobile phone screen as I waited for what I was sure would be a cheeky response from Gregg.

"You silly bitch!!!" I heard someone shout from the front of the queue.

Looking up I saw that Una had practically thrown a cup of coffee on a customer, pretty stupid if you ask me however if the shoe fits!

"I am sorry, it was an accident!" Una shrieked like a seagull.

Snickering I watched as Una stuttered and spluttered like a complete idiot and throw another cup of coffee on the customer.

"Forget it!!" The customer hollered at Una before storming out of the café with a coffee stained shirt.

Thankfully for the rest of us in the queue silly bitch Una actually served the next four customers in front of me correctly and then she saw me.

"Anna, what a pleasant surprise you look different, I see you lost all your puppy fat. Kate this is my friend from school we used to nickname her Pug because of her puppy fat, those were good times weren't they Anna?" Una smirked at me.

Bitches like her don't change do they, I could literally throw a scolding cup of coffee on her face right now and wouldn't have any remorse.

"Americano, white and please get the order correct. It's not rocket science" I sarcastically said handing Una £5 as her face reddened.

The elderly lady Kate prepared my order as me and Una stared each other out.

Personally I was thinking of all the painful ways I could get revenge on her from burning her to death to performing deadly surgery.

"Here you go madam, thank you for visiting us today and I do apologise about the service, I can ensure you it will not happen again" the elderly lady Kate smiled sincerely at me as she passed me my Americano.

I nodded at the lady before departing the café without one backward glance at Una, I didn't need to, I knew she looked like a complete dick.

I mean who cannot make a cup of coffee?
Chapter Three

"I CALLED YOU ANNA! Why did you not pick up?" Tom, my asshole of a boss shouted at me from the entrance to where our office was based.

"Tom, I do not start work until 08:30am and you called me at 07:45am, I was off the clock" I innocently said, smiling sincerely at Tom.

"When you work for me, you work whenever I need you to. I need a coffee" Tom rudely said walking back into the building without holding the door open for me.

Smacking the door open I sighed to myself, I hated Mondays and I hated Tom.

What a great combination!

"Beautiful Anna! It's our favourite day my hotness in red, Monday!" Neo grabbed me from behind and gave me a big hug.

"Neo how was your weekend?" I smiled and entwined my arm with Neo.

"It was fabulous, I went to a gay bar and met a new man!" Neo excitedly shrieked in my still sensitive ear.

"No way, another one. Didn't you pick up a new one like last week?" I laughed as Neo pouted at me.

"Of course, there are plenty of fish in the sea and I intent to indulge in my fair share" Neo started giggling hysterically as we went into our office we shared together.

If it wasn't for Neo working with me I probably would have gone crazy a long time ago.

"ANNA!!!" Tom hollered from down the hall.

"Jerk" Neo sighed and sat down at his desk.

Placing my handbag; scarf: and jacket on my desk I walked down the corridor to Tom's office.

"Yes Tom, how can I help you?" I sincerely asked Tom.

"I need you to write up a report about the expenditure we have had in the last two months and the comparison from last year. I need the report by 11am" Tom commanded rudely, throwing a large pile of paperwork in front of me.

"Tom that involves comparing over 20,000 records that will take at least until 2pm" I answered a little irritably.

"Then for once you will have to move that fat ass of yours, I thought you were meant to be going to the gym to shift that puppy fat on your ass?" Tom mocked me like he usually did.

The problem with Tom and this business was that he owned it therefore he had no one to answer to which meant he could do whatever he wanted and he knew that, the power hungry freak.

"Why don't you fire me then because I will not be able to do the report by 11am and you know that" I mocked Tom back as I felt anger stir at the bottom of my belly.

"Get on with it Anna and give me an update at 11am" Tom pointed to the door to tell me to leave which I did quietly.

Chucking the paperwork on my desk, Neo gave me a sympathetic smile before taking my cup from the desk to make me a drink.

Switching on my computer, I wondered why I still work for this jerk.

Una's voice from this morning echoed in my ears and I remembered her face at school stealing my equipment and stamping on my back pack.

The anger erupted inside of me like an explosion, looking at the paperwork I needed a distraction before I did something drastic.
Chapter Four

"Tomorrow will be better my darling" Neo encouragingly said, putting his arm around me as we exited the building together.

Smiling at Neo, I gave him a quick kiss on the cheek before walking off into the darkness of the evening.

I couldn't stop thinking about Tom and Una, their mocking of my puppy fat and how they both belittled me.

Why did they deserve to get away with their actions? Why did I deserve to suffer?

Standing outside the café where the bitch worked for some reason I was transfixed and couldn't move.

Entering the café I was pleasantly surprised to see that the café was empty except for the homeless man from this morning and Una who looked like she was clearing up.

"I'm sorry we're closing, oh it's you" Una chucked the towel down and moved her greasy locks from the front of her eyes.

"I would like a latte to drink in please" I smiled at Una who grimaced back at me.

"Of course, please sit wherever you would like Anna" Una gestured to the empty café with a sickly sweet smile.

I sat close to the homeless man who still stunk of a pub which was quite overpowering.

"Here you go Anna" Una placed a coffee on the table in front of me.

"Why don't you get yourself a coffee on me and take a seat" I smiled innocently up at Una and gestured to the seat in front of me.

"Thank you Anna!!!" Una squealed with excitement for some bizarre reason.

Una placed another latte on the table and smiled down at me like she was thinking.

"I'll go get us some cookies, we have some that we baked like an hour ago and we have so much to catch up on" Una ran into the back of the café.

Something inside of me changed, I cannot put my finger on why I did what I did next but I knew what I was doing was right.

Taking my sleeping pills I carried in my handbag, I crushed three tablets and placed them in Una's latte.

Looking over at the drunk homeless man he was now slouched across the chairs asleep.

Una returned with two cookies and sat opposite me, taking a sip of her latte.

"I am sorry about earlier Anna, old habits they die hard" Una smiled at me and taking another sip of her latte.

"Obviously" I muttered sarcastically, taking a large drink of my latte.

"You dress differently now" Una commented, gesturing to my clothes.

"I have a job and pay for my own clothes which means I have more choice, plus my boss like me to dress in dresses" I responded to Una comment.

We sat in silence as we drank our lattes and nibbled on our cookies.

Una looked uneasy and rather drowsy which meant my tablets, which I regularly hid from Gregg in my handbag, were working.

"I need to use the bathroom, is it located at the back?" I asked Una who silently nodded at me.

Walking passed the kitchen area and into the customer bathroom I looked at my reflection in the mirror.

My expression was different, I didn't know the person in the reflection, but I liked her.

She was a little wild and her eyes they were sparkling but what was she going to do next?

Closing my eyes I remembered all the evil; cruel: and belittling things that Una ever said to me.

The taunting; the bullying; the name calling: and the cruelty.

For ten years she relentlessly bullied me and even today, this morning she had to taunt me, she couldn't resist.

What was her comment she just made? Old habits? Well bitch how about this for a new habit!

Opening my eyes the women who stared back at me knew what she wanted, revenge.

Taking my lighter out my handbag I ran my finger over the dove engravings which I also had tattooed on my lower back.

The engravings on the lighter was what made me get the tattoo.

To me the doves resembled freedom and in my life that was what I always craved.

I started smoking when I was at school because of Una's relentless bullying which was when I bought the lighter therefore it was symbolic that me and Una's story would end with the lighter.
Chapter Five

Re-entering the café, Una was now slumped over the table in similar position to the homeless drunk.

Walking over to the front door of the café I locked the door and turned the closed sign on.

Shutting the blinds of the window, I flicked the lights off until the café was in complete darkness.

Turning around I wasn't sure what I was going to do next, to be honest what happened next was instinct more than reason.

Entering the kitchen area I turned on all the gas stoves.

Picking up a long napkin I tied it around my face, I didn't want to inhale the gas fumes.

Casually walking passed a pot of greased I knocked the pot to the floor, exploding the liquid.

Gazing around the room I could see no fire extinguishers or any fire alarms or even water sprinklers.

Suddenly I stopped in my tracks. What the hell was I doing?

Was I really going to kill Una and the homeless man?

I knew why I wanted to, Una deserved to get what was coming to her.

She had been a cruel bitch for years but did I really have this in me? Could I really take two people's lives?

"Yes you can" A voice suddenly whispered in my ear.

"Whose there?" I said out loud, turning around to look for who whispered to me but no one was there.

"It's me, your friend" The voice whispered again.

"You can do this Anna, she deserves it" The voice whispered to me again.

It was like I knew the voice but I couldn't see who was whispering to me.

Running my hand through my hair I looked at the lighter in my hand and I knew instinctively what I had to do.

Taking a pair of kitchen gloves from the box I walked back into the café area and dragged Una's unconscious body into the kitchen area then went back into the café area and did the same to the drunk homeless man who I know never did anything to me but who would miss him really?

Slightly cruel but honest.

Looking at their bodies down on the floor and the lighter that was in my hand, I wondered again if I was doing the right thing.

Did they really deserve to die?

But then I heard Una's cackling laugh as she taunted me and bullied me with relentless torture and my mind was conclusively made up.

Taking a stack of paper I lit the corner of the paper and chucked the flaming paper on the grease on the floor and then on the gas stove both which erupted in flames.

Running back into the café area I quickly took my bag and also the cup which had my DNA on and quickly exited the café by the side door.

Walking calmly across the road I was thrown onto my back as the back of the café completely exploded sending fragments of building and glass everywhere including into five passer-by's one which was me.

'Young lady are you ok?" An elderly gentlemen asked me.

"I...I think so" I innocently said acting a little bit like a damson in distress.

"Let me call the fire brigade and an ambulance, you lie there just in case you have any hidden injuries" The kind elderly gentlemen said as he gave me his jacket after taking out his mobile phone.

"Hello there has been a fire at The Hill Café and there was an explosion which has injured a few people who were walking by...thank you very much...please hurry" The elderly man put his mobile phone down and stood up to look at the other passer-by's.

I hugged the elderly man's jacket around my body as I began to shiver which I wasn't sure was down to shock to what I had done or shock due to fright, I couldn't tell as I was numb, emotionally and physically.

Suddenly sirens and lights erupted the evening sky as the fire brigade and ambulance quickly arrived although the café had been completely burnt to the ground all that was left now was rubble.

"Hello young lady my name is Jane I will be taking care of you, what is your name?" Jane the ambulance lady asked me kindly.

"Anna...my name is Anna" I whispered quietly.

"Hello Anna, where are you hurt?" Jane pulled out a blanket which she wrapped around my shoulders.

"My head I think, I fell" I whispered gesturing to my head.

Jane took out an oxygen mask which she gave to me, placing the oxygen mask around my face my nerves began to calm and I slowly began to stop shivering.

"Can I have your hand please Anna" Jane asked.

Holding my hand out, Jane placed clamps around my finger I presume she was testing my blood pressure or something, I never really understood medical equipment although I did take a first aid course for my work but I didn't really pay attention.

"Your vitals seem ok Anna however I do want to take you to the hospital for a routine examination because you hit your head and you also may have experienced minor smoke inhalation, I believe the police want to quickly ask you a few questions is that ok?" Jane asked me softly.

"Yes that is ok" I whispered, nodding in agreement.

Jane helped me up and led me to the back of the ambulance.

"If you could sit here I will let the police know they can ask you a few questions, keep using the oxygen mask Anna and if you feel dizzy please let me or someone know. I will be back shortly" Jane smiled down at me.

Looking at the complete chaos I had caused I couldn't believe what I had done but do you want to know the most unusual part? I didn't feel remorseful or guilt or shame, I felt nothing.

Chapter Six

"Hello Anna, my name is Detective Brooklyn Blake, I am investigating the tragic events that have happened here today can I ask you a few questions?" Detective Blake smiled down at me reassuringly.

I gestured that he could sit next to me in the back of the ambulance as I wrapped the fire blanket tighter around me. I was still shaking from a mixture of shock and despair, what was wrong with me?

"Thank you Anna, this will not take too long and then you can go to the hospital and they can check that you are well" Detective Blake said before sitting next to me.

Gazing at him from under the side of my hair I was able to see his face properly this time. He must be in his middle twenties probably 24 but his eyes told a different story. They were old, old beyond his years, he had clearly seen too much in his short life. But Detective Blake no doubt was gorgeous and handsome.

"What time did you arrive at the café Anna?" Detective Blake put his authoritative policing voice and I knew that the interrogation would begin now but what was I meant to tell him? The truth or a really good lie?

"Around 5.15pm, I had left work and needed a caffeine boost before I headed home like I do every night. I study you see and sometimes after work I need to have a boost before I begin studying" I replied putting a shaky tone to my voice to make myself feel vulnerable.

"I understand. I adore caffeine. Did you see Miss Shield's when you came to get a coffee? Was there anyone else present in the café?" Detective Blake asked softly to me as I coughed to imitate that I was unwell when really I felt well.

"I saw Una, Miss Shield and a man who had cleaning equipment, they went into the back together. He was very tall although everyone is quite tall to me. He had a stripy brown shirt and dark blue trousers. He wanted her to see something" I replied convincingly to his questions holding the blanket tightly around my body to show my vulnerability.

Detective Blake quickly scribbled down my responses then reached into his pocket to pull out his business card from his wallet.

"If you are worried or have any further information or simply want to talk to anyone please give me a call, I will always answer Anna. Thank you very much for your help and please make sure you have rest for a few days" Detective Blake kindly said to me handing me his business card.

"Thank you, Detective Blake" I smiled innocently up at him as he stood up and walked away from the back of the ambulance.

Watching Detective Blake walk away I breathed a sigh of relief, thank god the first interrogation was over.

As long as I kept to my story, I think I can get away with what I had accidentally done.

The scary thing for me wasn't the fact that I had killed someone or even two people if you include that homeless idiot, the scary part was the fact that I don't feel a shred of guilt for what I did.

"Madam please can you sit in this seat and put your seatbelt on, we will take you to the hospital now, they can check that you have not inhaled any fumes from the fire" The ambulance lady kindly said gesturing to the seat.

Slowly standing up I pretended to be uneasy on my feet, for show for the police officers and the ambulance staff. The lady held my arm to support me and led me over to the seat and assisted in helping me with the seat belt.

I knew I needed to act convincing for them to believe that I was a victim as opposed to a perpetrator.

The ambulance lady joined her colleague at the front of the ambulance and I heard the engine and sirens begin which made me feel like an excited little girl, they have the sirens on for me! How cool is that?

Suddenly we were speeding and weaving through the traffic which I could tell because the ambulance was constantly moving from side to side. Before I knew it we were at the hospital and the back doors opened as quick as lightning.

A wheelchair was ready for me which was being held by a nurse, I felt like a celebrity, all these people were here for me and I felt completely fine! The ambulance lady helped me out the seat, led me over to the wheelchair and helped me into the wheelchair.

"This is Anna, she was involved in the arson in the café. Anna is quite shaken and is in shock" The ambulance lady updated the nurse who nodded and rubbed my shoulder with reassurance.

"Anna my name is Jean I will be your assigned nurse this evening, is there anyone you would like us to call?" Jean asked me softly while wheeling me into the hospital.

"My boyfriend and mother, I have there number in my mobile phone but I do not know where my handbag is" I replied quietly with a slightly shake to my voice for effect.

"Here is your bag Anna, you take care and get better" the ambulance lady ran up to us and handed me my handbag and smiled sweetly down at me.

"Thank you for you and your colleagues help" I smiled sweetly up at the ambulance lady who smiled back at me reassuringly. Deep down I knew they would be asked to write a report about how I was and I wanted them to be convinced that I was a victim, I needed everyone to be convinced I was a victim which technically I was.

"Anna is it ok that I take your contacts from your mobile phone? Are your boyfriend and mother saved under any particular names?" Jean leant down and asked me holding her hand reassuringly on my knee.

"I saved them under Mum and My Boo" I made myself blush to make myself seem embarrassed by my declaration of what I saved my boyfriend under, which seemed to work as Jean laughed quietly.

"Don't worry I have my husband saved as Boo Boo therefore my boo is slightly more normal" Jean commented like we were two friends having coffee.

Jean stood up and continued to wheel me into the hospital and took me through A&E and into a quieter unit where she took to me to a corner cubicle. Pulling the curtain around us, she leaned the head of the bed up to a vertical position I presume for my comfort.

"Do you need help onto the bed?" Jean asked me kindly.

"No I should be..." I stopped as I attempted to get up and pretended to be shaky on my feet, Jean quickly grabbed me to stop me falling down and led me to the bed, securely sitting me on the bed.

"Sorry" I mumbled pretending to be ashamed.

"You have nothing to be sorry for, you were at the wrong place at the wrong time. And do not panic they have captured the man who did this although he is slightly unwell but he has agreed he started the fire. You have nothing to worry about" Jean reassured to me much to my surprise.

My lie worked but why did he agree to setting the fire? That thought puzzled me.

And how did he not die in the explosion?

I relaxed back on the bed, relieved that the evening was over although I must admit it was rather exciting don't you think?

"I am going to get Doctor Samson who will be conducting the tests on your this evening and will contact your boyfriend and mother. As soon as Doctor Samson gives you the all clear we will be able to release you and you can rest in your own bed. Does that sound good Anna?" Jean softly said rubbing my shoulder reassuringly again.

"Thank you Jean" I nodded in agreement.

Jean left me alone in my cubicle which left me alone with my thoughts.

Did I just get away with murder? And more importantly did I just ENJOY getting away with murder? The sensation that I feel, I cannot describe how it feels but it's incredible. Like when you are on a large dip on a rollercoaster, that adrenaline that courses throughout your body that makes you feel incredibly alive.

I know what you are thinking, how could she say that after she took another person's life? Does she not feel guilty?

And the answers to your questions yes I do feel somewhat guilty but you were there with me you know that I took that bitches life through self-preservation, she provoked me. You know that, you do believe me don't you?

Suddenly the curtain opens and there stands another damn hot man although he seems older than Detective Blake, who I am sure I will see again.

"Hello Anna, I am Doctor Samson, I am going to conduct a few tests and Jean has informed me your family are on their way. Therefore as soon as we get an all clear, you can go home" Doctor Samson said in a professional way with his sexy masculine voice which was like ice cream melting in your mouth.

"Thank you" I said quietly before mimicking a cough.

"I am going to check your chest, this might be slightly cold" Doctor Samson said before putting his stethoscope on my chest.

Doctor Samson listened to my chest for around two minutes before putting the stethoscope on the top of my back and leaning me forward.

"Oh Anna my apologies!" Detective Blake walked in but turned around to give me privacy.

"We are conducting a few tests Detective, can your discussion with my patient wait for ten minutes the tests should be completed by then and then my patient needs to wait for her results. You can discuss the case with her then, is that ok Detective?" Doctor Samson said with a hint of resentment in his voice, clearly him and Detective Blake have some unresolved history between each other. How exciting!

"Marcus, I mean Doctor Samson I will return and speak to Anna shortly" Detective Blake said before leaving the cubicle.

"I apologise about that Anna" Doctor Samson formally said before rolling up my sleeve and taking my blood.

I didn't respond, my thoughts were developing their own theories about that unusual encounter between Doctor Samson and Detective Blake anything from infidelity to a deal gone wrong.

I completely forget where I am for a moment as I try to put the pieces of the Doctor's and Detective's puzzle together therefore do not register when Doctor Samson leaves the cubicle, I presume the tests have been completed.

I hear my mother and boyfriends frantic voices coming down the room and begin prepare myself for the best act in my life. I was always brilliant at making myself cry even when I didn't need to but I was required to cry to achieve a specific reaction from someone.

I guarantee you have done that before, let's face it we all have at some point in our life, correct?

I felt the fake tears begin to roll down my cheek and by the time that Doctor Samson, my mother, boyfriend and Detective Blake returned my fake tears were falling tremendously down my face and landing on my ample chest.

"Anna my darling don't cry it's alright" my mother ran over to me and put her arms around my shoulder but I shrugged her off for effect.

"Mum please, I want to go to home and go to sleep. Gregg please take me home" I begged Gregg.

"Is she ready to be discharged?" Gregg asked Jean.

"I will find Doctor Samson who can make the decision" Jean smiled before exiting the cubicle.

"How are you beautiful, we will be home soon and you can have a nice long sleep" Gregg stroked my head and kissed me on the forehead.

"Hello I am Doctor Samson, I just want to conduct a quick check for concussion then I will be happy to discharge Anna" Doctor Samson said and looked in my eyeballs.

"I cannot see any signs of concussion therefore I am happy for you to be discharged and will go and prepare your papers and Jean will present them to you. Take care Anna" Doctor Samson smiled down at me reassuringly.

"Come on beautiful" Gregg said picking me up from the bed.

"Here are your discharge papers, take care Anna" Jean handed me my papers and smiled at me kindly.

I was exhausted that I fell asleep in Gregg's arms.
Chapter Seven

Suddenly my alarm clock goes off which awakes me with a start.

Yesterday is a mixture of a blur and a realisation but I didn't want to stay at home and think about my feelings I needed to go to work and act normal.

As I attempt to get dressed for work I am achy but I am determined to act normal, I am not going to let that bitch win.

I am still tired; emotionally exhausted; physically sore: and confused as I walk into my workplace, I could do with a few hours of filing.

"Anna meeting NOW!" Tom shouted at me.

And now I have to sit in a meeting with pig headed cowards and listen to them acts like the snakes they are.

"We will be delegating the tasks of the upcoming presentation to our elite customers and we will need to iron out the issues that we currently have been experiencing" Tom my arrogant arsehole of a manager guffawed said as he stood ready to point his laser pen at the presentation screen.

I stifle a yawn and attempt to think happy thoughts of when I got home and the coursework I had to do tonight.

This job was simply a means to the end and my finance until I completed my distance learning university course then my career in counselling can officially begin.

But until then I have had to endure 1 year of working as an Invoice Administrator at this company that think an inspiration is making the whole team a coffee as opposed to just yourself in the morning, they are THAT bland and boring.

We were all waiting for Tom to start speaking but he was attempting to load his presentation on the electronic whiteboard with no success, it was really like watching a caveman start a fire.

Basically slow, inconvenient and uncomfortable.

"You might want to turn your laptop on" I sarcastically commented pointing at his laptop.

Tom pressed the power button on his laptop which switched the laptop on and the presentation suddenly appeared on the screen, how delightful!

"See everyone I do know what I am doing! Right everyone as you can see I have sectioned different tasks to every single one of you and I expect every single one of you to participate" Tom mumbled practically spluttering spit at each of us.

Looking at the table I realised that my name was not recorded on the table that was on the presentation screen and neither were two of my other colleagues.

"Where are our names?" Neo my fellow colleague gestured to me, him and Kelly who were all those that were not recorded on the tasks table.

"We will be discussing that through this meeting" Tom replied shortly which for him was unusual as usually he spoke in speeches full with shit.

"Why can we not discuss that now and then we can leave the meeting?" Neo asked quite forcefully, to be honest I didn't really care I was exhausted it had been a long two weeks.

"Neo we will be discussing that particular topic in 20 minutes, I am sure you can wait for 20 minutes Neo" Tom growled frustrated at Neo who instantly shut up but had a pout on his lips like a school child.

Considering the information that Tom was about to say was not relevant to myself, I basically had a whole meeting with myself in my brain.

I began to think about what happened to that bitch, well what I did to that bitch.

Una had it coming, she was incredibly cruel to everyone when she was at school.

Once a younger student tried to stand up to her and Una had waited until after school and attacked her, stripped her to her underwear, taped her to a pole and took photographs which were distributed around the school.

Una was a bitch.

And she was a slut, opening her legs for everyone.

"Anna I asked you a question" Tom bellowed at me across the meeting table.

"I think it is a great idea" I sarcastically generically answered.

"Thank you for volunteering Anna, me and you will prepare the presentation after work together" Tom gave me a boyish grin and licked his lips disgustingly.

Great! More reasons for him to stare at my tits and at my ass.

Tom is such a creepy asshole.

I catched Neo's eye who rolled his eyes to show his dismay at my situation.

"Thank you everyone that concludes our meeting, you can all be excused except from you Anna" Tom pointed at me as I attempted to run out of the meeting room.

Slumping back into my chair, I was pissed off and frankly irritated at the way that Tom was staring at me like I was a piece of meat he wanted to devour.

I mean didn't he have any dignity or professionalism, the prick.

"I think tonight will be beneficial for our relationship Anna, working together on such an important presentation" Tom leaned his disgusting body towards me and licked his lips again as if he was thinking about licking parts of my body.

"That's great Tom but I need to get back to my desk" I stood up quickly from the table and attempted to escape the room.

Tom suddenly ran towards the meeting door which he blocked with his fat; sweaty: and ugly frame.

"Anna I think we can be good, good friends" Tom gruffly said with a suggestive tone and raised his eyebrows at me.

Stretching his hand out he stroked my bare shoulder which made me step backwards and shiver with pure horror.

"Don't touch me" I snarled at Tom who narrowed his eyes at me.

"Or what Anna? Remember I am the LAW, you can do nothing to me. I bet you like being controlled don't you? You little slut in your little black heels and exposing your cleavage in your tight dressed. I OWN YOU. I know you cannot afford to leave your job, this is all you got! You WILL come tonight and you WILL do EVERYTHING I TELL you too and EVERYTHING I ASK of you. Is that understood?" Tom growled menacingly at me.

I nodded with a mixture of anger and shock.

"Brilliant you may go back to your desk" Tom sincerely said opening the door and gesturing me to leave.

Walking quickly down the corridor I sought refuge in the toilet.

Leaning on the sink I stared in the mirror and I was trembling.

"You know what you need to do" I heard a familiar voice whisper to me.

"It's you" I breathed with a mixture of apprehension and relief.

"Hello my friend" the voice whispered in response.

"You're here with me?" I whispered back in the mirror.

"I am always with you. You know what we must do my friend and you know how to do it" my friend whispered encouragingly to me.

"Yes my friend I know what to do" I replied confidently and took my dove crested lighter from my dress pocket.
Chapter Eight

"Good Luck this evening if you need me...don't call" Neo smirked and planted a kiss on my cheek.

"Bitch" I joked and poked my tongue out at Neo.

"Love you too bitch tits" Neo said blowing me a kiss and winking as he departed the room.

Walking down the corridor to the meeting room I had the plan set in my head and I was confident that it would work.

The concepts were simple; lure; trap: and finally burn.

"Anna there you are" Tom raised his eyebrows at me and gestured for me to sit down next to hm.

"Do you know Anna I have always found you fascinating" Tom huskily said moving his chair closer to me.

Sipping the glass of water in front of me I tried not to let his comments distract me from my plan.

Tom reached out and slipped one hand up my legs and another under my shirt.

I have no idea how I managed to stay calm and to plan but I did.

"Do you want to play a game Tom?" I teased by placing my pinkie finger in between my teeth.

"Yes please" Tom eagerly said standing up quickly.

"Come with me" I stood up and ushered Tom to follow me.

Tom followed me like a wet dog towards the stationery cupboard.

Opening the stationery cupboard door, I gestured Tom to sit in the chair.

"Bondage? This is fate, you dirty little whore" Tom huskily whispered licking his lips.

Pushing Tom into the chair I undid the buttons on my shirt distracting him as I tied his hands behind the chair.

"Anna, you are perfect" Tom groaned as I felt his erection start to grow between my legs.

Removing myself from his lap I tied his legs together tightly and then tied the tops of his legs to the chair.

"Not too tight now gorgeous" Tom started to sound a little nervous.

Picking up a roll of parcel tape, I saw Tom's eyes widen.

"What is that for?" Tom asked apprehensively.

"We wouldn't want anyone to hear your screams of pleasure, would we?" I asked biting my lip suggestively.

"Definitely not" Tom huskily said.

Wrapping the parcel tape tightly around his mouth, I made sure I left a little air gap, I mean I wanted him to suffer!

Walking behind Tom, I bent down and picked up a long piece of cloth that stank of bleach and then quietly opened a new bottle of bleach and poured some liquid until the cloth was drenched in bleach.

"This may sting a little" I whispered in Tom's ear as I covered his eyes with the bleach drenched cloth.

Tom made a screeching noise which was barely audible through the parcel tape gag and his body began convulsing in what I could assume was the agony from the impact of the bleach on his eyes.

With the remaining bleach and some other bottles of liquid which I cannot pronounce and never knew we had in the stationary cupboard I doused Tom's trousers; shirt: and hair which made him convulse again as the liquid started to burn his skin.

"Please...please" Tom begged through the whole in the parcel tape.

"I am sorry what was that?" I teased as I ripped off the parcel tape from his mouth, pulling off some of his disgusting stubble on his face.

"Please I'll do anything....a promotion....pay rise....company car.....your own office....anything...but please stop....please" Tom blubbered like a baby.

"You look at little thirsty Tom, are you thirsty?" I smirked as I picked up the remaining bottle of bleach.

"Please remove the cloth...please....please" Tom sobbed as he sat helpless in the chair.

"Here this will help" I taunted as I opened Tom's mouth and poured liquid down his throat.

Holding his mouth shut with my hand, I could hear and visibly see him spluttering and convulsing with the pain of the bleach cascading down his throat and into his disgusting, vile body.

Sealing the tape back over his mouth I stood back and looked at my fine work.

Taking out my dove crested lighter from my pocket I lit the corner of a few tea towels and paper that lined the walls of the stationary cupboard.

Closing the door of the stationery cupboard I walked calmly back into the meeting room, collected my belongings and left work like any other day.

At least the fucker got what he deserved, my friend was right.

Chapter Nine

"Hi honey I am home" I shouted to Gregg as I entered our home.

"I am in the kitchen" Gregg shouted back to me.

Walking into the kitchen I took out cod loin and new potatoes we had the night before, I didn't fancy cooking anything too big tonight.

"Is this ok for dinner?" I asked Gregg, leaning up to give him a kiss on his cheek.

"Looks delicious, I will put the television on in the background" Gregg said leaning over to switch the television on.

And oh shit when the news came on.

"This evening there was a fire discovered in the Park Avenue office buildings, police are treating the fire as suspected arson there is no news whether there have been any fatalities yet as the firemen are still attempting to tackle the blaze" the news reporter explained before pictures of the blaze were placed on the screens.

"Isn't that where you work babes?" Gregg asked in shock.

"On the third floor" I replied quietly.

Gregg came towards me and held me in his arms, stroking my hair.

Looking up at Gregg there was something different in his expression, I am not sure what it was.

Gregg leant down and kissed me softly on my lips.

"I am going to go to bed, I am quite tired" I said to Gregg before rubbing my neck and walking upstairs.

Lying down on the bed I had planned to relax and not move unfortunately my phone began to ring.

"Did you hear about Tom?" Neo frantically asked me over the phone.

"I heard on the news about a fire, why what did you hear?" I tiredly responded.

"He's dead, they think it is arson! I know he is or was a prick but fuck me what insane person would do this?" Neo said with a high pitch voice.

"Arson?" I whispered horrifically while picking up my nail file.

"Did Tom have any family?" Neo asked with a mixture of concern and nosiness.

"Who knows, he never talked about family, only himself" I sarcastically responded as I put Neo on loudspeaker.

"Should we organise something?" Neo gruffly asked.

"Like?" I asked choosing the colour blue for my toe nails.

"A ceremony of remembrance" Neo quietly said, with a small sniff.

I stopped opening the lid of the nail varnish and looked at the phone with horror.

Why the hell would I want to arrange a bloody ceremony for that jackass? Is Neo crazy?

"Neo I think that is a bad idea, we didn't know Tom, we only worked with him" I carefully responded as I began to paint my toe nail.

"But we spent hours with him" Neo begged as he begun to pull at my few remaining heartstrings.

"Fine what do you need from me?" I asked Neo running a hand through my hair.

"Why don't you do flowers and guest list?" Neo said delighted to me.

"Fine why don't you come and see me at my house tomorrow and we can arrange the ceremony to commemorate his life" I sighed to myself as I thought how ironic this situation was.

"You are a generous and amazing person, see you tomorrow around 4pm" Neo joyfully said.

"I know I am" I whispered as Neo hung up.

Picking up my lighter I used to burn the pig headed arrogant bastard I ran my finger over the crest of the doves.

I am sure I can pretend to be respectful to the bastard after all my friend, I am an amazing actress.

Chapter Ten

Tying my hair up in a bun, I checked my reflection in the mirror as the doorbell rang.

"Neo my darling" I said quietly giving Neo a big hug.

"At least we have each other Anna" Neo whispered holding me close.

Neo took a folder of flowers and also the personnel contact list and opened them on my dining table.

"I think we should have lilies for the flowers, he seemed to write the word lily all over the place. I have rented the fountain area in the park for an hour tomorrow at 10am. We just need to contact the family and also buy the lilies" Neo answered in his organised manner.

"I will call the floristry now if you could show me the ones you have picked" I said picking up my telephone and dialling the floristries telephone number.

"I'd like to have three wreaths of lilies for a memorial at the edge fountain in the Hill Park, I can collect tomorrow at 9am" I explained to the lady on the phone and gave my card details.

"According to the file he had an ex-wife and two daughters, should we contact them?" Neo asked reading Tom's file.

"No I do not think we should contact them as they will be dealing with their grief This can be a work memorial to show respect for our manager Tom" I replied, acting like I was sad about his death.

"Good idea" Neo nodded in agreement.

"We can send them one of the wreaths of the lilies" I suggested sincerely.

"Definitely, I will get that arranged" Neo said writing down the entry in his diary.

"I will meet you at the fountain tomorrow at 10am" I said to Neo as he stood up to leave.

"Thank you again Anna for supporting me with this, the rest of the work force refused" Neo said as he hugged me closely.

"See you tomorrow" I shouted as Neo got into his car.

Shutting the door I leant my head against the door.

I am going to have to act my ass off tomorrow morning and probably cry.

Driving to the flower shop, I pulled up the cleavage of my black dress to make myself more dignified not that pig headed Tom would have minded, he would have loved my dress.

I received a letter this morning which said we would be off of work for at least a month with pay while they determine what to do with the business.

Everything worked out quite well didn't it my friend?

"I am here to collect three wreaths of lilies under the name of Anna" I said to the very attractive lady at the floristry desk.

"Here you go, I apologise for your loss" The lady kindly said.

"Thank you" I replied as I exited the shop with the lilies.

Pulling up at the park I saw Neo and a few of my work colleagues although I must admit I expected all of them to turn up but clearly everyone hated him.

Walking with the others to the fountain we had a very brief ceremony which involved laying flowers and standing quietly together.

"Do you want to meet up for a coffee next Thursday at our usual spot?" Neo asked as we walked back to the cars together.

"That would be lovely I will call you next Tuesday" I said getting into my car.

Getting home I noticed there were two messages on my answer machine.

"Hello this is Detective Blake I would like to interview you regarding your relationship with your manager Tom, please come to the station tomorrow at 10am"

"Hello this is Lillian, Tom's ex-wife we have found a temporary location for the offices and would like you and some of your work colleague opinion, please be at the Trinity Buildings tomorrow at 2pm. Thank you"

I was hoping to have at least two weeks' vacation!

I chose to dress professionally to my two engagements today after all the performance was in presentation and I needed to make a positive impression.

"Gregg I am off now" I shouted up to Gregg before quickly exiting our house.

Parking up outside the temporary work building I was awestruck it was architecturally beautiful, clearly his ex-wife must have taste.

"Hello you must be Anna, my word you are beautiful" Tom ex-wife Lillian distracted me from my gazing at the building and embraced me.

Looking at her appearance she was nothing like I had imagined, she had short red spiky hair; she was dressed in a tight blue dress; she had leopard print shoes: and her face was stunning.

"You are not what I was expecting either which is a good thing" I said to Lillian.

"Neo has already arrived I think he is currently eating food in the café in the basement however no one else has. My ex-husband was quite the arse as a manager wasn't he?" Lillian cackled.

"He was certainly hot headed but he was always the professional" I agreed as we walked into the temporary office facility.

"This would be the office area, there are three offices; one kitchen area; a locker room: and unisex bathrooms. It is very comfortable and cosy" Lillian instructed as she showed me around.

"Me and my daughters are happy for you to continue with the work if you are happy with the set up, we have downloaded all my ex-husbands files to the computers therefore you should have everything you require" Lillian gestured around the office.

"If Neo is happy then I am happy, I am sure we can get the rest of the team on board" I smiled at Lillian as I offered my hand to Lillian.

Lillian smiled and shook my hand.

"It's been an honour doing business with you Anna, if you need any assistance please give me a call" Lillian held the door open for me.

"You up to anything nice this evening?" Lillian asked me as we exited the temporary office building.

"I have to visit the police station, routine questioning for all the staff" I answered turning around when I got to my car.

"Thank you for helping" Lillian embraced me again.

Smiling I entered my car and drove to the police station.

Chapter Eleven

Pulling up outside the police station I composed my appearance in the mirror and applied red lip gloss to make my lips look plumper. After spraying perfume across my chest I exited the car and went into the police station.

"Neo hi" I hugged Neo who embraced me warmly back.

"Hi I am here to see Detective Blake my name is Anna Gerard" I told the slutty receptionist who really should learn how to button her shirts.

"Miss Gerard twice in two weeks, I am a lucky man" Detective Blake jokingly said smiling warmly down at me.

"Come with me Anna, these are simple routine questions and shouldn't take too long" Detective Blake motioned me to follow him into his office.

"Anything I can do to help" I answered sincerely as I sat in his chair opposite him.

"How well did you know Tom? Did you spend a lot of time together? Detective Blake asked me with his pen poised on his notepad.

"I write his financial reports; make his coffee; participate in meetings: and generally help him. We had an honest employee and employer relationship" I answered pretending to wipe a tear from my eye.

"Here have a tissue, did Tom have a temper? Detective Blake asked.

"Of course he is a manager, they all have a temper but we respected him" I answered honestly.

"Did you ever argue with Tom?" Detective Blake asked.

"Of course I did about reports and work related nonsense but we quickly forgot. We had a good professional relationship" I lied to Detective Blake who nodded in agreement.

"That sounds a lot like working here, thank you Anna for your help. I must say it is pleasant to speak with someone as polite and professional as you" Detective Blake stood up and held open his office door.

"Likewise Detective Blake" I smiled at him as I walked passed, I could feel him staring at my ass as we walked into the reception area.

"And Anna" Detective Blake said as I was at the front door.

"Yes Detective Blake" I said sweetly, turning around.

"If you need anything please call me" Detective Blake said, nodding at me.

I smiled at him and exited the police station.

I knew I would be back at some point.

Chapter Twelve

I was excited for our anniversary especially considering all the recent events with those...events. I'm not sure how to classify Una and Jeff or that other man who I cannot remember what his name was although as you know my friend, they all definitely deserved it.

I have nearly gotten changed into my special lingerie at my temporary work building which I have covered with my knee length trench coat with my favourite long paid of black leather boots, which I call my fuck me boots.

I am sure that Gregg would be pleased and surprised with his anniversary present. I know we had been going through difficult times in recent days and I have been slightly detached by as you know my friend me and Gregg were still intimate together and loved each other.

Buttoning up my trench coat and leaving my temporary work building I wondered what Gregg has bought for me as an anniversary present.

I did leave him hints around the house mainly holiday leaflets for cottages around Scotland which was where we met all those years ago when he was at a conference and I was on a family holiday.

We were in a coffee shop and he accidentally stole my coffee order, I was abrupt to him like I usually am and he was sarcastic and we kind of got talking. Three days later I was at the park near the cottage and he tracked me down and offered me to spend a few days with him. There was something about him that made me say yes. We made love two days later in the pool of the hotel he was staying at, it was magical.

It was love at first sight although we do piss each other off regularly and can be dicks to each other but we fuck ad love like animals.

Walking back into our home, I noticed there were clothes strewn around the hallway like two people had got undressed in a rush.

Setting my keys quietly down on the telephone stand next to my car keys, I slowly crept along the entrance hall and sniffed the air. Smelling sweet perfume that wasn't mine I was instantly enraged, another women was fucking my boyfriend in my house! The son of a bitch or shall I say daughter of a bitch?

Quietly I made my way upstairs although I ensured I did not touch anything.

"People are scum in this world" She whispered, my friend whispered in my ear.

"You know what to do Anna, make them pay, they deserve it, like the others deserved it" My friend whispered in my ear encouragingly.

Moving my cuff over my sleeve I slowly opening the bedroom door. What an absolute prick Gregg is!

"See he doesn't appreciate you but I do, lets show him and that slut what they deserve" My friend whispered to me again pointing at the prick.

Gregg was there in our bed fucking his 18 year old chubby intern. It was her face that registered my presence as she saw my reflection in the floor length mirror next to the bed. She look horrified which made me grin menacingly.

"Let's give them hell" My friend whispered playfully.

I didn't respond and my friend knew I didn't have to. The anger that was raging through my body was enough of an answer for her.

The slut was now huddling her naked body under MY sheets I paid for and she was looking at HIM for help. Bitch he cannot help you now, he won't even be able to help himself!

"Anna I...I...I didn't expect you...please Anna allow me to explain the situation" Gregg stuttered with his hands clasped together as if he was praying to god.

"I should...I should go...Gregg I will call you" The slut whimpered before standing up naked and picking up her bra and thong.

The chubby slut walked up to me with tears of I could only presume were shame streaming down her ugly face.

"I am sorry, I didn't want this to end up like this, I was lonely, please, please, please forgive me" The chubby slut whispered shamefully.

When she was stood next to me inside the door frame I gripped her head and slammed the side of her face into the wooden door frame three times until she fell back unconscious onto the floor.

"ANNA NO!! Oh my god what have you done Anna?" Gregg screamed in horror as he leant over the bed to look down at the chubby slut's bloody face as she lay unconscious on the floor.

Gregg went to stand up but stopped as he say the heel of my left leather boot raise above the sluts head in a stamping motion.

Sitting back in the bed Gregg eyed his phone on the bed stand apprehensively, did he really think we wouldn't notice? He really is an idiot.

Walking to our dressing table I picked up my black leather gloves; a pair of scissors: and my infamous lighter.

Out of the corner of my eye I saw Gregg make a swift move to grab his phone. Quickly I threw the scissors towards his outreached hand. Gregg howled in pain as the scissors embedded themselves in the middle of his hand making his hand stuck to the bed stand.

"Anna please...let's talk about this" Gregg winced looking down at his hand which was bleeding profusely.

Bending down I grabbed a clump of the slut's hair and yanked her over to the bed pulling out a ball of her extensions. Picking her up by the shoulder I laid her next to Gregg on the bed.

Now how would I tied them to the bed my friend? Of course Gregg's ties and belts, perfect idea my friend!

"Kate wake up...we need to go....please wake up" Gregg frantically whispered to the slut, I mean how dumb must he be to think I cannot hear him?

Opening Gregg's underwear drawer I pulled out five long ties and four long black belts.

"Anna don't do this!! Speak to me Anna...fuck Anna please" Gregg begged as he stared fearfully at the belts and ties.

The slut began to wake up as she made gurgling noises probably due to the act her fat gob was filled with her blood.

The bastards deserve to die together don't you agree my friend? But you are right they do deserve to suffer first.

I am glad I have you my friend and we have each other.

Walking to the end of the bed I pulled the slut's feet until they were close to the posts at the end of the bed. Taking one black belt I tied her left ankle to the bed post however when I pulled the belt tighter I felt and heard the bones in her ankle snap. Oops!!!

"Anna...it wasn't Kate...it was me...punish me and let Kate go please..." Gregg pleaded again.

Seriously Gregg's begging was starting to piss me off! After tying the slut's second ankle with the other leather belt I picked up the bat from under the bed that was kept there for emergencies.

Lifting the bat over my shoulder I smacked Gregg's ankle with the batt with such force that his ankle bones cracked loudly and his ankle lay there limp. Finally Gregg shut his mouth but instead was crying like a baby, I'm not sure which is worse.

Lifting his ankle I tied him to the bed post with the third leather belt as he lay there crying like a fucking idiot.

"Gregg..." The slut mumbled before coughing and spluttering with bloody mucus coming out of her mouth.

After tying both of his ankles to the bed post, I went back over to the slut. Taking her hand I tightly tied them to the head post.

"I'm....so....sorry...please" The slut whispered hoarsely.

"Anna she is young...she has her whole life ahead of her...let her go...have mercy...Anna say something please" Gregg pleaded on behalf of his slut.

After tying her second hand I ran my leather cladded finger down her blood and tear stained cheek. She shivered with what I could only assume was a mixture of anxiety and fear, although I hoped fear was her overriding emotion, for my benefit at least.

Running my finger down the side of her body, I made my way slowly back around to Gregg and begin to tie his hands in the same way to the sluts.

"Why are you not saying anything? Anna we need to talk about this. Anna... this isn't you. Your kind and gentle" Gregg failed to analyse me accurately, clearly he didn't know me that well.

"I still love you Anna" Gregg pleaded and begun pulling at his bonds I had placed securely around his hands.

Looking down at his naked body I ran my leather cladded hand across his torso and down to his groin.

"Please Anna..." Gregg fearfully whispered.

Staring directly in his eyes I could see how terrified he was of what I was going to do next and how powerless he was, the feeling that was raging through my body was exhilarating and electrifying.

Leaning over his body I ripped the scissors from his hand causing him to howl in agony. Playing with the scissors in between my fingers I teased Gregg before quickly swiping across his groin and grazing his penis.

"Nooooo!!!!!" Gregg roared in agony making me giggle maliciously to myself.

"Please don't hurt me please!!! I'll do anything! Anything!!!!" The slut cried hysterically.

Strolling around the bed I made sure that Gregg and his slut were securely fastened to the bed before smiling down at them both and exiting the bedroom.

Skipping gleefully down the hall, I ran my leather cladded fingers up and down the walls and entered into the bathroom. Picking up six bottles of bleach; four bottles of Gregg's cologne; three bottles of old nail varnish remover: and five aerosol cans. I made my way back to the bedroom to place the objects into the room, although because I am tiny I did have to make three journeys. Part of the downfall about being short my friend!

Going back into the bedroom I caught Gregg struggling at the bonds, clearly attempting (yet failing) to escape, what an idiot!

"Anna there you are my love. Let's end this madness and talk about this. We could move away, just me and you. We can start again; have a family; get a puppy: have a fresh start. This isn't you Anna, you know this isn't you" Gregg croaked like a frog I wanted to squish really hard with my boot.

Looking up at his wrists I could see blood running down his arms from where he had struggled. As I moved my eyes down to his penis and groin I smiled when I say the mixture of dry and flesh blood from the wound I had inflicted especially on his penis which seemed to be bleeding at a surprisingly rapid rate. That is what you get for sticking your penis in unauthorised places!

Opening the first bottle of bleach I poured the liquid across Gregg's body causing him to yelp in agony as the blech hit his fresh, open wounds. Spreading the liquid up his upper body I tipped some in his open pathetically pleading mouth making Gregg splutter and cough. Tipping the final liquid over his head I placed the bottle in between the two lovers and retrieved the second bottle for the slut.

"PLEASE!!!!! I made a mistake I am begging you I am too young to DIE!!!" The slut cried hysterically, bleeding profusely as she struggled at my professional binds.

Pouring bleach onto her cut ankles she screamed in agony and violently struggled at the bonds shredding her skin at her wrists and ankles to pieces.

Picking up the nail varnish bottle I tipped a little on the open wounds of her ankles, making her cry hysterically.

"Anna STOP THIS MADNESS!!!!" Gregg commanded angrily at me, clearly trying to scare me but instead I was more motivated.

Standing next to the slut's face I poured the nail varnish and bleach onto her bloody and bruised face making her wince and cry harder.

"Ple...." The slut began to say but has to stop as I poured the bleach into her open mouth.

Holding her mouth shut together with my leather cladded fingers I forced her to swallow the bleach as I stared into her scared eyes.

The slut began to sob uncontrollably as I released her mouth from my grip and begun to shake with what I hope was fear.

Walking down the side of her body I tipped the remaining liquid from the bleach and nail varnish remover over her exposed chubby body.

Opening Gregg's cologne bottles I tipped the liquid over the bed until the sheets were dripping in a form of flammable liquid whether it was bleach; nail varnish remover: or Gregg's cologne.

Entering the top drawer that held my lingerie I pulled out two carrier bags which I tied to my boots to ensure no heel prints would be left in the room.

Walking back over to the four remaining bottles of bleach I began to pour them all over the floor of the bedroom until it squelched with bleach. Breathing in, I coughed as I inhaled all the fumes from the various liquids.

"Anna please I am begging you, don't do this!!! I will leave, we will leave... we won't tell a soul... I don't want to die for a stupid stupid mistake...please .... Please Anna...please..." Gregg pleaded desperately with me as I am sure the realisation of how fuckin stupid he was and what I was going to do about it sunk into his thick skull.

"SAY SOMETHING!!!" Gregg roared at me, frustrated by my silence.

Turning to look at his pitiful face, our whole life we had together flashed before me. You know what I realised my friend? I realised...I realised... I was too good for him, he never deserved my epic love.

Looking at the slut laid next to him, I wondered about how many men she currently had on the go... how many of the wives or girlfriends she was screwing with... desire and lust my friend can bite you in the ass especially if you are thick enough to get caught.

"Please..." The slut sobbed quietly and begun to cough as the bleach began to burn her throat.

Chucking the empty bottles down on the floor I exited the bedroom and made my way downstairs.

In the kitchen I found a box of matches previously used to light the gas stove the previous occupants left in the house.

Walking back upstairs I could hear Gregg and is slut frantically whispering to each other clearly plotting their escape. I mean how thick must you be to think that you would escape a situation like this? Clearly a pair of retards.

Re-entering the room they both fell silent and watched me mesmerised as I opened the wardrobe and took out my old fake passport; duped credit card: and my fake driving license I had from college. I would need those for late my friend, you will see why.

Turning to look at them both as I went to the bedroom door I could sense and smell how they were feeling. I guess you are wondering how I could smell how they were feeling aren't you my friend? One of them as pissed themselves as the stench of urine was disgusting although to be honest I couldn't tell who has done the deed as the bed was dripping wet from all the liquids I had poured onto there earlier.

Placing my fake ID's; credit card: and favourite lighter in my left coat pocket, I removed the matches from the other.

Both Gregg and the slut began to struggle at their bonds and begun to cry hysterically and plead in unison.

Lighting one match on the love chair in the far corner of the room, the flames quickly began to spread although from my recent experience I knew I had to light three more in the room then get the fuck out of there.

Quickly I lighted the three matches; one I threw on the bed between the sluts legs causing her to scream in horror, much to my delight; the other between the slut and Gregg: and the final I threw on the floor.

Blowing Gregg a quick kiss I exited the bedroom and shit the door behind me as Gregg and the slut began to scream for help. As I walked down the hallway I threw lit matches along the floor leaving a trail of orange like the sunset on a beautiful summers evening behind me.

Running down the stairs I quickly grabbed my car keys and placed a final few lit matches in the entrance hall and calmly walked out the door.

Slowly I made my way over to my car and entered like I was going to work in the morning before reversing quietly off the drive way.

Just as I reached the end of the driveway the top windows of the house I once occupied shattered sending thousands of fragments of glass flying through the night sky.

Reversing onto the road, I turned on my favourite power song and patiently waited to see the final act of my masterpiece.

BOOM!! The bottom half of my old house exploded onto the driveway; into the night sky: and across my neighbour's lawns.

Grinning to myself I put my car into gear and quickly sped away.

There was no way I was going to top that masterpiece my friend although now it is the time for my grand finale.
Chapter Thirteen

Speeding up I swerved directly outside the police office and parked myself on a sideways, I wouldn't need this car now anyway.

Stepping out of the car I made sure that I made my entrance into the building as hot as my entrance into the car park by slowly placing my sexy stiletto foot out of the driver side of the car and slowly lifting my body from the car. I could feel the glances of everyone around me and I must admit I looked pretty awesome dressed in tight leather pants that clung to my ass and a tightly fitted v neck black top that amplified my curvaceous breasts. My hair was loose and fell elegantly down my back and I made sure that I was perfectly trim from my toes to my eyebrows.

Slamming the driver's door I made my way into the reception area of the police office which seemed to be very busy this evening, people were sat in the chairs waiting for people they loved or maybe to be interviewed by police officers.

Walking up to the reception I slammed my hand down on the top to get myself noticed by the prim and perfect women on the other side of the desk.

"Hello how may I help you?" The prim and perfect women who apparently was called Brook, I mean BROOK come on, what's next Petal?

"Hi I need to speak with Detective Blake, I'm Anna he will know who I am, it is rather urgent" I smiled sweetly at miss perfect.

"I am afraid Detective Blake is busy at the moment, can I help you with your matter?" Perfect Brook asked me kindly.

"Unless you can arrest me I am doubtful of how helpful you can be to me" I answered sarcastically and confidently.

"Excuse...excuse me?" Miss Perfect stuttered, clearly shocked by my response.

"I need to confess to three murders that I epically committed" I graciously announced which almost gave the receptionist a heart attack.

"I will go and retrieve Detective Blake for you madam" Miss Perfect nervously whispered before running away from her desk through the door out the back.

Turning around I realised that everyone was staring at me which made me have a huge mischievous grin on my face. This is what I wanted those months ago, I wanted people to see me, the real me and realise that I was more powerful than they were. My dream was coming true.

"Mummy is she a murderer?" A little boy who I reckon is five or six asked his mother who simply put her finger on her lips to inform him to be quiet.

"Yes I am, do not worry I only murder really naughty people" I responded to the little boy before smiling at the little boy who half smiled at me back, I do not think he was too sure what to make of me.

His mother looked horrified that I was interacting with her little boy and stood up to move as far away of me that was feasibly possible in the small reception area.

"Anna" I heard the masculine voice of Detective Blake from behind of me.

Turning around I found Detective Blake standing waiting for me next to an open door that was called 'Interview Room' looking extremely dashing in a tight blue suspenders and a black shirt.

"Detective Blake, good to see you again" I bit my lip mischievously as I turned to him.

"Come with me Anna" Detective Blake gestured through the open door, smiling politely at me.

"Thank you Detective Blake" I said walking through the open door and swaying my bottom.

"Please Anna take a seat, would you like a drink? Coffee? Maybe tea?" Detective Blake offered gesturing to the drinks machine on the side stand.

"No thank you, I had a glass of wine before I left home. Oh wait I should not have told you that!" I replied giggling mischievously.

Detective Blake turned his head and smiled at me before pouring himself a large cup of coffee and walking over to the table and sitting across from me. I was having a severe case of Déjà vu.

"Right Anna where would you like to begin?" Detective Blake asked crossing his legs and relaxing on his chair.

"Normally the logical place would be the beginning, are you sitting comfortably Detective Blake?" I answered Detective Blake, relaxing back on my chair.

"Always" Detective Blake responded.

"You may need to make that begin recording" I gestured over to the recording machine.

Detective Blake nodded at me before reaching over and begin recording our conversation, I only needed to tell my story once people didn't deserve to hear my story more than once.

"I would like to confess to the murders of Una Shield; Gregg Sales; Tom Matthews: and Kate Philson" I confidently said leaning forward to hold my hands on the table.

"Anna you do not know what you are saying" Detective Blake whispered with a hint of shock in his voice.

"There must have been part of you that sensed it was me. I was always there" I taunted him, enjoying the shocked expression on his face.

"How did you murder the victims?" Detective Blake asked regaining his professional posture.

"Firstly they are not victims however I will be happy to explain each individual murders. Do you need me to wait until you have undone your pen lid?" I asked pointing towards his pen that he had taken from his front jacket pocket.

"I am sure I can keep up" Detective Blake sarcastically responded and folding his legs as he got comfortable in his seat.

"Una was first on my list who was rather an accident although looking back I realise that I did mean to burn that bitch to death, she deserved what happened to her. I never even noticed the café although walked passed the café every single morning and every single evening. That one cold day I decided to grab myself a coffee because I was tired and I fancied a pick me up from work. And there the bitch was. She used to bully me at school, when I say bully it wasn't simply words she was a physical pig. Once she smashed my face against one of those rough brick walls and made sure she rubbed my face until I looked like I had been dragged through a road full of gravel. I never got her back for what she did to me at school, she deserved what I did and trust me the world is better without that stupid bitch bully" I waited until I continued as Detective Blake was scribbling on his notepad which reminded me fondly of taking notes at college.

"How did you commit the murder on Una Shields?" Detective Blake gruffly asked with a hint of disappointment in his voice, the poor man he thought me knew me so well.

"I knocked her unconscious with a my sleeping tablets; doused areas of café in bleach; turned on the stoves; took the lighter from my pocket; lit a tea towel; knocked grease all over the floor;; went across the street: and got knocked over as the café exploded. I must admit I was impressed and horrified by my work, it was rather artistic" I reminisced my first murder that I brilliantly committed.

"And when we spoke together just after the café fire, why did you not let me know what had happened?" Detective Blake asked quietly moving the pen in his hand.

"You will understand after I have finished" I replied confidently which made him shift uncomfortably in his chair.

"Tell me about Tom Matthews, he was your manager where you worked is that correct?" Detective Blake asked professionally.

"Yes he was and he was the biggest arrogant pig headed prick I had ever met in my entire life. He was definitely on my list for getting what he deserved. That evening he made me work on late and he had been a twat all day. He was the kind of man that you would go to with all your ideas and he would take them for his own and he had favourites in our workplace. He was a manipulative ass, making you think that you meant something when actually you didn't. Anyway that evening I agreed to work on late, I had not been sleeping since Una and I thought making myself tired would help my sleep. However Tom molested me by moving his hands up my legs and under my skirt, when I slapped his hands away he threatened me by saying that I was close to being fired and if I wanted to keep my job I would need to basically fuck him. He told me no one liked me and I was a useless bimbo. And I decided that enough was enough and the world was better without him" I swiftly recalled the incidents of my second masterpiece murder.

"And how did you murder Tom Matthews?" Detective Blake asked still jotting down the notes from my second confession.

"I lured him with the promise of sex into our stationary cupboard which was larger than the usual cupboard and kept all the flammable cleaning equipment and other safety equipment. In the cupboard we always kept a chair and pieces of rope as sometimes when people left we would have a goodbye ceremony which we jokily would bind someone to a chair. I pushed him into the chair and undid my shirt sexily and while he was distracted I tied him to the chair, binding his complete body tightly to the chair to ensure that he couldn't move. We had some dark brown parcel tape which I used to gag him but he wasn't nervous as I told him that I didn't want anyone to hear his screams of pleasures when to be honest I just wanted silence. I used a cloth which stank of bleach to tie around his eyes which was when he first began to struggle as the bleach must have burned like a bitch. I doused his trousers in a variety of liquids which I believe began to scold his body as his clothes began to disintegrate due to the chemicals. Since Una's murder I carried my lighter in my pocket as for me my lighter is my symbol to the reason why I killed them and why they deserve it. Anyway sorry got slightly distracted, once I doused his body including his hair I removed the tape swiftly from his mouth pulling off some of his moustache at the same time. He was begging and pleading, promising me everything from money to a promotion, to shut him up I poured bleach into his mouth, held his mouth shut and once I knew he had swallowed the liquid I sealed his mouth back over with the tape. Standing back I lit the corners of tea towels some used which we stacked in the corner and also some paper, closed the stationary door, collected my belongings and walked out my workplace. We never had CCTV as where I worked they were not that modern or up to date" I finished folding my arms.

"How did you know you succeeded?" Detective Blake asked writing notes into his notepad.

"I was at home and had made dinner for Gregg, we had cod loin and new potatoes with a small salad from the night before. We switched on the television and there was the breaking news. Successful business burnt to the ground, arson suspected. That's what they said arson! They had no idea and still they have no idea. I knew he had successfully died the day after when I received a phone call from a work colleague who said the firemen found a body and it was Tom" I answered smiling to myself.

"How did you feel when you heard you succeeded in your second murder?" Detective Blake probed with his pen poised on his notepad.

"Excited and alive" I replied biting my lip as I remembered how that felt.

"What about Tom's family? He had two young daughters who now have no father, how did you feel about leaving them alone in this world?" Detective Blake probed again trying to appeal to my humanity.

"He had not seen either daughters since they were born, I think he called them rodents and he wished they were dead" I replied to his question and shrug my shoulders.

"Now finally tell me about Gregg, why did you kill the man you loved?" Detective Blake asked as he moved a photograph of Gregg I took in front of me.

"Because he was sleeping with another women in our bed and lying to me" I answered and sipped a glass of water.

"So you killed him, just like that" Detective Blake clicked his fingers in the air.

"Of course not, there was important planning and intricate details that needed to be conduct and yes murder" I sarcastically answered.

"Tell me what you did to him" Detective Blake said.

"Them Detective Blake, them" I smiled at Detective Blake who shifted uncomfortably in his seat.

"Who was the other victim?" Detective Blake asked a little nervously.

"Kate, I do not know her last name but I definitely know she worked with Gregg" I smirked as Detective Blake shifted through his notes.

"Kate Philson, his secretary" Detective Blake showed me a photograph of Kate.

"That is the bitch, had chubby thighs and quite saggy tits for her age, she was sleeping with Gregg" I pushed the photograph back to Detective Blake.

"Anna what did you do to Gregg and Kate?" Detective Blake asked, leaning back in his chair to fold his arms.

"I tortured them; tied them up; fed them bleach; and nail varnish remover; even Gregg's cologne: and burnt them to death. You should have seen the explosion of my old home, it was intense and incredible. You would have been proud Detective Blake" I replied to his question and smiled radiantly at Detective Blake.

Chapter Fourteen

"Why did you commit those murders Anna?" Detective Blake asked me while leaning on the table and holding his hands in a thoughtful pose as if he was contemplating my answer.

"Do you understand or have knowledge of the concept of Karma?" I asked him which made him sit back and cross his arms frustrated.

"What goes around comes around that we cannot get away with our sins and we have to pay for them eventually" Detective Blake correctly answered me.

"Yes and we, I mean I was conducting karma's duties" I answered confidently.

"That is slightly obnoxious don't you think?" Detective Blake asked cocking his head to gaze at me.

"That depends where you are sitting" I replied leaning back to fold my arms to gaze at Detective Blake who was shifting uncomfortably in his seat.

"I am sitting on the right side of the law, where are you sitting Anna?" Detective Blake twisted my comment around to become a probing question to me.

"Comfortably" I sarcastically answered.

"Anna I can help you but you have to let me in and be honest with me" Detective Blake leaned forward and whispered to me.

"We can help each other Anna, I know you are an intelligent women and that is why you know that I can help you and you can help me" Detective Blake whittled on like a bunch of old women in a coffee shop talking useless crap.

"There is something you can help me with, Detective Blake" I leaned in and whispered to Detective Blake like I was telling him a secret.

"It would be my pleasure Anna, how can I help you?" Detective Blake nodded like one of those toy dogs you can have in your car window.

"Can I have a glass of water?" I whispered to Detective Blake who looked clearly irritated.

"My pleasure" Detective Blake responded professional as ever.

"Answer me one final question Anna and you can have this glass of water" Detective Blake was stood up and holding the glass of water.

"Ok" I nodded in agreement to the final question to be honest I was dying for a glass of water.

"Did you feel anything towards those you murdered while you were killing them?" Detective Blake asked while sitting back on the chair in front of me.

"Of course I did, did you not understand my comment earlier about Karma? You have to feel hatred to be able to commit Karma's actions otherwise you would commit the actions upon everyone. Hatred is how you justify who you will kill next" I answered honestly.

Detective Blake nodded at my answer and passed me the glass of water as promised which I sipped slowly.

"What do you want Anna? From this confession what do you want?" Detective Blake asked pointing his perfect finger in my direction.

"Nothing, Detective" I replied smiling sweetly over at him.

"I disagree, I think you want to be remembered; revered: for people to both fear you and admire you" Detective Blake summarised before folding his arms and gazing at me thoughtfully.

"I think you think that you understand me which I think is an interesting yet naive notion. You think that because you have a qualification and experience of studying a varieties of different personalities, you have a wealth of knowledge and can dissect a person simply by talking to them. I think that you are naive at the fact that personalities and people are far too complex to be understood or to be dissected. Don't you agree Detective Blake?" I summarised directing the question to Detective Blake by gesturing my hands.

Detective Blake didn't answer but by looking in his eyes you could see those sophisticated brain clogs turning and churning. He clearly didn't understand that we didn't care what he thought, we only wanted to be victorious and wanted to claim the victory.

"Do you want a lawyer or legal representative Anna?" Detective Blake asked a little gruffly.

"I believe that they are the same thing" I sarcastically responded which made Detective Blake crease his eyebrows at me.

"Anna, please answer the question for the tape" Detective Blake said professionally although you could tell he was becoming irritated by me which amused me immensely.

"For the tape I do not require legal representation" I leaned over and spoke directly into the tape.

"Anna Gerard I am arresting you for the murders of Una Shield; Gregg Sales; Tom Matthews: and Kate Philson as confessed by yourself this evening. You do not have to say anything but it may harm your defence if you do not mention when questioned something which you later rely on in court. Anything you do say may be given in evidence. Do you understand, Anna?" Detective Blake finished pulling out his handcuffs from his pocket.

"I understand, could you warm those up first I don't want my wrists to get cold" I smiled pointing at the handcuffs in Detective Blake's hands.

"Hold out your hands please Anna" Detective Blake commanded, ignoring my previous comments.

I obliged and silently held out my wrists which Detective Blake handcuffed together with his very cold handcuffs, how exciting!

Chapter Fifteen

Leading me out of the back door of the interview room into the second reception, Detective Blake stopped me abruptly in front of a desk with a stern women who reminded me of my old headmistress at primary school.

"This is Anna Gerard, we need her prints and information to be booked into the system. Anna is being charged with murder of six civilians, the case files are under code 324 Arson" Detective Blake commanded to the lady who began tapping away at her computer which I presume was her finding my files, at least he didn't call the idiots victims!

"Do you have any identification?" the stern women asked me.

"Isn't my face and prints enough?" I asked sarcastically, smirking at the lady.

"I can provide identification for Miss Gerard. These are her personal belongings you should find a driver's license in the purse" Detective Blake replied, handing my handbag to the lady.

"Is there anyone you would like us to call to inform them of your situation?" The stern lady, who I realised was called Jane after reading her breast, asked me.

"Considering one of my murders was my boyfriend, I do not think it will be long for anyone to realise about my situation" I replied tapping my heeled shoe on the floor impatiently.

"I will retrieve her immediate families contact details from her phone and file after we have taken her prints and booked her in" Detective Blake answered, ushering me into a room next to the reception area where two uniformed officers and a lady in a white lab coat was waiting for us.

"Anna my name is Laura. Today we will firstly be taking your finger prints; then I will assist you to change into this jumpsuit; then we require a urine sample: and finally we require a blood sample. Do you understand everything I have said Anna?" Laura spoke slowly as if I was thick.

"Of course I understand, I am not retarded" I answered sarcastically moving forward to the fingerprint table.

"Please place your thumbs here please and then place your thumbs on this sheet" Laura quietly said like I knocked the confidence out of her with my sarcastic comment, the silly cow.

I placed each of my thumbs in the ink pad and placed them on the sheet then waited patiently for the next instruction from bimbo Laura.

"Please come with me behind the screen as we need you to change into the jumpsuit" Laura gestured over to the blue screen and handed me a folded up orange jumpsuit, pair of boots, socks, sports bra and underwear.

Detective Blake walked forwards and undone my handcuffs but made sure that I saw his gun that was positioned in his waist belt which only made his ass look hotter.

Walking behind the screen I began to take off my clothes when finished I folded up clothes and handed them to Laura before placing on the jumpsuit which was slightly tight around my breasts which I quite liked.

I loved it when clothes amplified my breasts.
Chapter Sixteen

Mum came into the visitor's area of the prison looking older than I remembered however dad was still the arrogant looking man who I remembered they were escorted by a fat suited man who was obviously a lawyer.

"Hello honey how are you?" Mum asked me giving me one of those sympathetic maternal smiles, little late for that now deluded cow.

"This is Richard Williamson, he has come to help you. He is your lawyer" Dad introduced the man who smiled reassuringly down at me.

"I do not need a lawyer" I slowly said to ensure my dim-witted father understood me.

"You will be sentenced and the sentence will be for life, is that what you want Anna?" The fat lawyer asked me sitting down in front of me.

"Really? I never knew that...." I replied sarcastically sniggering under my breath.

"Please Anna we are trying to help you" Mum began to beg and get tearful, she was always a wimp.

"Mother dear being the highly intelligent being that I am, I know the implications of my actions and I do not require representation. I didn't require representation when I was arrested and I do need it after being in a cell for four days. Court is on Monday and then you will be able to move on with your lives, I can ensure you of that fact" I responded to all three of their enquiries.

"To clarify you are denying my offer of representation?" The fat lawyer asked with his pen poised on his piece of paper

"To clarify I am denying offer of representation or would you like me to spell that out with doughnuts or maybe sausage rolls or even icing?" I smirked at my little joke.

"I apologise Richard" Dad said standing up and shaking fat lawyer's hand who looked unimpressed and slightly embarrassed.

"When are you seeing the counsellor honey?" Mum asked reaching out towards me.

"Tomorrow mother dear, I cannot wait be nice to talk to someone who doesn't zone out when people speak" I sarcastically answered.

Mum looked hurt and offended by my brutal but honest comment.

"We should go" Dad said touching mum's shoulder who nodded in agreement and stood up.

"Good luck honey" Mum smiled down at me blowing me a kiss, she never will give up on me poor thing.

Dad simply walked out the room, I think part of him was afraid that he had contributed in creating me and another part didn't care what happened to me whereas mum kept glancing back like she was afraid I would disappear.
Chapter Seventeen

Entering the shrink's office the unbearable clinical environment was truly depressing, I thought shrinks were meant to help you not to depress you. Slightly ironic don't you think?

"Please Annabelle take a seat" Dr Dick pointed to the very large tub seat opposite his chair which was brown, leather and obnoxious.

"Anna" I corrected him firmly which took him by surprise.

"Anna it is" Dr Dick responded replenishing his expression back to the clinical figure.

We sat in silence for a moment, I was actually contemplating when and where I would be able to set fire to his ass and I am sure he was trying to assess me just by staring at me. This guy must be on 20 an hour and to be honest I cannot understand why.

"Do you think you are evil Anna?" Dr Dick asked me smiling at me.

"Do you? I mean we are not here to know what I think, we are here to know what you think Doctor isn't that correct. I am curious what your professional opinion is?" I responded professionally smiling back at Dr Dick.

"I think you are a very interesting young women" Dr Dick assessed.

"Agreeable, go on" I nodded in response to his assessment although with the clinical shrink types there was always more and more and more they could probably go on and on for infinity.

"You are a very complex, curious and disturbed young lady but no you are not evil" Dr Dick finalised his assessment by gesturing me with his hands to respond.

I didn't respond, I didn't feel I needed to. I know what I am and I am for once in my life I am proud to be the psychotic, clever sociopath that I am, of course the doctor didn't need to know that.

"Your actions have hurt and affected a lot of people, do you understand?" Dr Dick asked me softly.

"What about your actions in your past and I am sure in your present?" I implored the doctor.

"My actions?" Dr Dick asked with a hint of uncertainty in his voice.

"With your patients, I am sure you have hurt, affected and even damaged your fair share of patients. I can think of a few especially a young man in particular, didn't he jump of a bridge just to escape you?" I summarised smiling to myself when I saw the old man's painful expression.

"How do you....we are here to talk about you Anna" Dr Dick attempted to get back to the original meeting's agenda but I was not going to let him off that easily.

"I must say Doc I am interested and impressed by your complex, curious and disturbed personality" I concluded.

Dr Dick was clearly worried about how much I knew, the sweat was pouring down his forehead and he looked like he was about to cry. What a little baby. This guy must be three times my age and here he is looking like he is about to pee in his diapers.

"What...what else do you know?" Dr Dick asked me nervously, wiping his forehead with his napkin he had taken from his front pocket in his jacket.

"Oh Doctor, do you really think I would tell you? I will give you a hint though come closer..." I said to Dr Dick ushering him closer with his finger.

Dr Dick leaned in towards me like a good little baby boy.

"That is the beginning of the information I have, I could destroy you and not even break a nail or move from my lovely jail cell" I whispered smiling innocently.

Dr Dick looked horrified which enhanced my victory, people never learn do they? They cannot stop me, they will never stop me.

"Can I go back to my cell now or do I have to stay for the whole hour?" I asked smiling sweetly.

"What do you want?" Dr Dick asked wiping his forehead again.

"What do you want Doctor?" I asked him.

"I want to help you Anna" Dr Dick answered attempting to plead with me.

I didn't answer his rather pathetic pleading, it was tragic for a man who had all these 'degrees' that apparently made them intelligent. To be honest Dr Dick seemed to be quite dim because he obviously had read my incredible police file and didn't predict that I would come in his office prepared. If I could feel sympathy I probably would.

"Did you like fire as a little girl?" Dr Dick tried to remain professional and continue questioning although I couldn't have sworn his pants were wet, did he pee himself?

"Do you like little girl's doctor?" I grinned at Dr Dick as he became uncomfortable who didn't answer my question.

"How did your board of directors cover up little Rose isn't it? You are one sick man" I nodded to myself, sitting back to watch him squirm.

"That was a long time ago...." Dr Dick responded quietly pulling at his collar.

"You seem uncomfortable" I assessed smirking to myself.

"She was a mistake...I regret my decisions" Dr Dick whispered to himself.

"It was three years ago that's quite recent especially for a little girl, you broke Rose and paid her to keep her quiet, you are a sick man Doctor who has a lot of skeletons in his dirty closet" I concluded smiling sweetly at him.

"I will say you are well...sane...suggest they release you...reduce your sentence...anything....please do not tell my wife...my children will be taken" Dr Dick begged me, tears rolling down the side of his face.

"Do you really think I want, require or need anything from you?" I asked cocking my head to the side.

"Then why are you saying any of this?" Dr Dick finally cracked throwing his hands in the air and having a tantrum like a child.

"I am making conversation, I thought that was what you were here for" I answered.

Poor Dr Dick his mouth looked like a goldfish in a tank, I think he might have been shell shocked.

"We have another 25 minutes, what would you like to discuss?" I asked Dr Dick who looked more like a carp than a goldfish now.

"I...." Dr Dick began but couldn't finish, instead he wiped his forehead again as the sweat was dripping like a mini waterfall on his forehead.

"Do you ever eat the food in the prison from the visitor's café?" I asked like we were regular people on the streets.

"No I bring a packed lunch" Dr Dick answered quietly pulling at his collar again.

"Are you ok? You look like the heat has been turned up in the office. You should really have a glass of water" I commented pointing to his bottle of water on his desk.

"Yes you are right Anna, I think I will" Dr Dick agreed with me, 40 minutes in a room with me and he was already in a trance, I was getting good at this.

"Are you afraid they will sentence you Anna?" Dr Dick enquired looking at me from over his water bottle.

"Are you afraid they will sentence you Doctor?" I turned the question to Doctor and he knew exactly what I was talking about.

"They cannot....no evidence...they..." Dr Dick was attempting to convince himself rather than me.

"Who is they?" I asked Dr Dick, curious about his answer.

"Lawyers, judges, jurors, police" Dr Dick answered not very confidently I must admit.

"Oh Doctor you are short sighted you poor man" I said before laughing to myself.

"They can deliver justice Anna" Dr Dick quietly said again convincing himself not me.

"They don't deliver justice if they did why are you here? Why are children being raped? Why are animals being abused? Why are women being raped? They do not deliver justice doctor you should understand that, one of those that go away" I smirked up at Dr Dick who looked like he was going to pass out.

"I would sit if I was you Doctor, don't worry the hour is nearly over" I pointed to his seat which Dr Dick obliged by sitting in.

"How do I write the report to the meeting?" Dr Dick asked with uncertainty.

"Don't you record meetings with clients or is that a stupid question for someone like yourself?" I commented which made Dr Dick shuffle in his seat.

"I don't record meetings with Dictaphones anymore...since him" Dr Dick responded, his expression full of shame.

"Then write what happened or type what happened" I said to Dr Dick who nodded to himself.

"Ten minutes left Doctor, not long, how would you like to finish?" I asked Dr Dick who looked at me wide eyed and nervous.

"Have you planned your outfit for the court hearing?" Dr Dick asked obviously trying to take the subject away from his dodgy past.

"A simply pair of black trousers, top and cardigan although I do think orange suits me similar to red, red used to suit me as well. I am sure you would agree wouldn't you Doctor?" I smirked as Dr Dick's face began to redden.

"I am sure red suits you as well as orange, I am sure you would look lovely in anything you would wear" Dr Dick complimented quietly.

"Are you attempting to flatter me Doctor? You are not really my type I tend to go for people who don't like abusing little girls and tormenting young lads, if you get my drift" I smirked as I really wanted to add one last comment about his sordid past.

"I told you I regret my actions" Dr Dick tried to convince me one last time.

"That is not what your internet history says, you seem to watch alternative movies although I don't think the movies you have even have a category. People never change Doctor, people just get better at hiding their true selves and telling themselves that they regret their actions and they are better now. You, Doctor will never change, you know that" I assessed Dr Dick who had literally pissed himself now.

"I think we can conclude the meeting now, I need to change before my next meeting" Dr Dick whispered.

Walking around his desk, I noticed Dr Dick had left a wet patch on his chair. I wasn't sure whether that was from the piss in his pants or the fact I mentioned little Rose, pervert.

"You can come and collect Anna now, the meeting was successful" Dr Dick lied to my guards on the phone.

The guards entered the room and gripped my elbows to escort me out the office. Before we left I made sure I turned around.

"Until next time Doctor" I said to Dr Dick smiling at him.

Dr Dick was left holding onto his desk for support as me and my two guards left his office.

Walking back to my cell I felt alive but not victorious, not yet anyway. Victory would come tomorrow.

Pushing me into my cell the guards locked my cell door, I knew it would be a long day tomorrow therefore I lied on my bed with a huge grin on my face.

My plan is almost complete.
Chapter Eighteen

"I hear she is completely cuckoo" One of the police guards whisper to the other one as he walks past my cell.

Rolling my eyes I wondered how they employ such small minded idiots.

I mean cuckoo? Bitch please I am a sociopath, cuckoo is like comparing me to a kitten!

"Can I have my phone call now please?" I asked the guard leaning up against the bars and fluttering my eye lashes.

"Oh princess I don't think so" the guard grumpily responded with his back to me.

"It's my constitutional right for a phone call like in the movies" I said to the guard in an innocent voice.

"I said NO" the guard shouted.

"What is the problem Dave?" The senior guard asked who had clearly been listening to our conversation the nosy bastard.

"She wants to make a phone call" the guard gestured to me.

Unbuttoning my poppers on my jumpsuit I turned on my flirtatious charm.

The senior guard gazed at me for a moment before staring down at my open poppers on my jumpsuit which revealed my cleavage.

"One phone call and you have five minutes, no longer gorgeous" the senior officer said and unlocked the door.

Leading me over to the phone call the senior officer backed away but didn't go too far but enough space to give me privacy.

Dialling the number I required for the last part of this chapter in our story I was relieved when he answered.

"Hi it's me I need you to do what we planned in the place we discussed. I will not be going to trial as I pleaded guilty. They want this to be dealt quickly therefore we need it to be arranged quickly. Is everything ready?" I explained to him.

"Yes I have all the necessary arrangements made. I will see you very soon" his gruffly masculine voice radiated through me, this plan was working out better than I intended.

"See you soon" I breathed through the phone before hanging up the receiver.

"All done gorgeous?" The senior guard came up to me and handcuffed my hands to lead me back to the cell.

"Big day for you tomorrow gorgeous" the senior guard said shutting the lights of the cell off.

"A very big day and now my plan is complete" I whispered to myself scratching a kiss on the wall with my nail.
Chapter Nineteen

Standing in the dock awaiting the verdict of the whimpering jurors, I amused myself by wondering what their stories were.

I knew eventually I would find out but looking at their faces and expressions I could interpret their story.

The pale middle aged scared looking woman who looked completely out of place, you can almost see the urge for her to bite her finger nails. The constant glances at the door meant she wanted to run out the court screaming for the hill and I am pretty sure she stank of the sweat if the moisture on her head was anything to go by.

The burly bald man with his stern authoritative facial expression to try and look fierce like he know what he is doing but look there in his eyes my friend, they keep darting backwards, forwards and side to side all around the room. He is terrified and nervous. He keeps thinking are they judging me? What do they know about me? Poor insecure frightened little man.

The pouty women sat with her hands positioned in from of her and her back straight, an obvious goody too shoes kind of women but I bet she is a slut. The way she gazes at the men in the room, trying to catch their eye then blush like a sweet innocent tart when they catch her.

The young jittery geek lad which I expect your thinking how does she know he is a geek? Well apart from the fact that by now my friend you know that I know everything or have you not been paying attention my friend? I don't want to punish you my friend, we get along very well.

Anyway where was I? Yes the geek. Well he is wearing a comic t shirt and even walked into the doc wearing a superhero hoody therefore full blown geek. He has to be the youngest as unlike the others he has no wrinkles, his face is smooth like a baby's bottom. Plus he doesn't know how to sit the fuck still as he keeps moving and shuffling like he has the shits or something.

The housewife sat in her stained grey shirt which I think the stain might be gravy let's face it we've all been there once in our lives but I guarantee she looks like that regularly. Her nails are dirty and short, I can tell as she constantly taps her nails or rubs her arms which means the view of her nails are exposed. She want to leave as soon as possible as she constantly glances at her watch or at the clock.

The other two jurors could be married in a coffin somewhere they are THAT old! One looks half asleep and the other one...is he dead? He certainly looks dead. Hope not that would be very boring for me!

That is the crap line up of jurors I have been given, I would have introduced them o you earlier my friend but you may have liked them ns I didn't want you to get attached, that would be a bad idea wouldn't it?

Here come baldy standing up to deliver the most obvious verdict ever!

Wait for it.....

Let's start the time shall we? Play a little game together my friend...have a little bit of fun.

After all we play the best games together my friend.

Tick Tock...

"The jury have voted in favour of finding the defendant..." Baldy stops for effect, the fat idiot.

Tick Tock....

"Guilty" Baldy quickly sits down probably about to piss himself with nerves, the pussy.

Tick Tock...

Look at the audience in the dock including my family who 'got away' as the newspaper phrased it when they were writing about me. Everyone is clapping their hands in agreement with the jury or as I like to see it they are applauding me.

Tick Tock...

"Please handcuff the defendant and removed the defendant from the stand to be sentenced on July 1st" Judge Bastard said to the sweaty officer next to me.

Tick Tock....

The officer handcuffed my hands and began to attempt to lead me down the stairs out of the stand. Taking one look at the audience especially at my family, the jury and the bastard judge, I gave them one last smirk.

Tick Tock....

Leading me down the stairs me and sweaty officer, who stank by the way, walking towards the back door and out to the prison van that was waiting for me.

Tick Tock...

Placing me into the back of the van the officer locked me in the back. I began chuckling to myself, this was perfect.

Tick Tock...

The police van began to move away from the court

Tick Tock goes the clock because someone is going to burn....

BOOM!!!!!

Suddenly the doors of the prison van catapulted open to my delight.

Jumping out of the van I saw the debris of the exploded court scattered all over the street.

Running around to the front of the van I found the sweaty office has a pole punctured through his chest.

Reaching into his bloody jacket I pulled out the set of keys which I remembered had the gold key to unlock my handcuffs. Finally I can fucking use my hands.

"Please...please..." The bloody police officer stuttered, spluttering blood out of his mouth.

Reaching over I pulled out his gun and his Taser. Pointing the fun at his legs I shot hum making him yell in agony which made me laugh.

I didn't want to kill him, I wanted the fucker to suffer.

Running over to the clothes shop situated across the road from the court which had its windows shattered from the explosion, I entered through the window.

Quickly I began to change out of the clothes I currently had into a pair of black jeans; a crimson shirt; ankle boots: and a black leather jacket.

Placing the Taser and gun into the jeans pockets, I went over to the till where I found an unconscious shop worker.

The till was already open which I presume was the aftershock of the explosion which was pretty epic, wasn't it my friend?

Taking out a wad of cash and coins which I placed in my pocket and removed the CCTV tape which I stood on and threw the pieces into the bin under the desk.

Quickly I walked out of the stop and noticed a car which had an unconscious driver. Checking coast was clear I opened the driver's door of the car and removed the driver's unconscious body.

Removing his keys from his pockets I got into the car and after checking for other passengers I started the engine.

Looking into the wing mirror I saw the incredible destruction we had caused my friend before driving away from the place I used to call home.

This is not the end of our story my friend, this is only the beginning.

Are you ready?

### THE END

About the Author

I have been writing from a young age however the first time I had published my own eBook was in September 2014. Writing is my hobby I enjoy creating characters and story ideas. My writing genre is mainly erotica however I also stories for the crime and drama genre.

I am an independent, self-publishing author from England.

Other eBooks from the Author

The Office Affair

The Christmas Kiss

Burning Desire

The Ex Lover

The Ex Addiction

Life As I See It

The Hotel Guest

Get in touch with the Author

You can keep up to date with all my upcoming eBooks and other information including exclusive poetry via my website:

www.kimthomaswriting.co.uk

And also on my Twitter page

@xlilangel4lyfx

