

Healer's Apprentice

A novella by H.M. Van Fleet

*

Published by H.M. Van Fleet at Smashwords

Copyright 2015 H.M. Van Fleet

*

Smashwords Edition, License Notes

Thank you for downloading this ebook. This book remains the copyrighted property of the author, and may not be redistributed to others for commercial or non-commercial purposes. If you enjoyed this book, please encourage your friends to download their own copy from their favorite authorized retailer. Thank you for your support.

Dedicated to Rebecca F. Wells for encouraging me to write. To my parents for their support all along the way. And to my husband for putting up with me through the best and worst of times.

*

" _Insurrection is the most sacred of the rights and the most indispensable of duties."_

– _Marquis de LaFayette_
Table of Contents

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Chapter 9

Chapter 10

About the Author

Preview of the Sequel
Chapter One

I swung my legs out of bed, feeling slightly nauseous. Today was my fifteenth birthday; the day I chose my craft. I already knew what I wanted to do, but the thought of rejection made my stomach clench with dread.

After getting dressed, I made my way to the kitchen. I ate a rather tasteless bowl of porridge, then followed my father as he exited the house and walked to the healer's house at the other end of the town.

I stepped up to the door, glancing back at Father. He nodded encouragingly, so I took a deep breath and knocked. After a moment, the door was opened by the town's healer, Cameron. Cameron was a kind, widowed man in his late thirties. His light brown hair, dark blue eyes, and cheerful disposition made him quite popular with the residents of my town. I still wasn't altogether sure about him; the only time I had talked to him was when he had straightened my broken arm. It had hurt.

Cameron smiled at me. "Hello. What can I do for you?"

I licked my lips nervously, glancing at Father again. "I would like to be your apprentice."

"Come in, then." Cameron waved goodbye to my father, shutting the door behind me. "What is your name?"

"Max." I glanced around the healer's home. "What do you want me to do?"

"I knew you were coming, so I put together some things for you to do to see if you really want to be my apprentice." Cameron led me to his kitchen, where there were piles of different types of plant leaves.

"What are these?" I asked, fingering one of the leaves.

"Herbs that are used to make medicines and salves." Cameron named all of the herbs, then picked up what looked like a wooden peg. Putting some leaves together, Cameron started to crush them with the wooden tool. He turned to me, holding out the tool. "You try."

After wielding the tool awkwardly for a few seconds, I started getting faster, and turned to smile at Cameron. "This is fun."

"Good." Cameron walked over to another door, beckoning. "Come. The books you will study are in here."

I groaned quietly before following. I hated studying, but knew that it was one of the only ways I could learn.

"Max!" my mother called. "Supper's ready!"

I sighed and shouted back, "Coming!" Gently, I washed the wound on the dog's leg with a wet cloth. When it was clean, I smeared an herbal poultice on the cut, then bandaged it. I stroked the dog and fondled its ears, then went inside our small home to wash my hands.

Father smiled at me. "How was your day?"

My mother sat next to Father after placing food on the table. She looked at me. "Do you like the healer?"

I nodded, dishing myself some food. "Yes. I love being his apprentice. I love helping people." I had been his apprentice for a few weeks, and had helped Cameron with several of his patients.

Mother smiled. "That's good. You will make a great healer someday."

I ducked my head to hide my embarrassment, stuffing a forkful of food in my mouth to avoid talking. The meal progressed in silence, then Mother asked Father, "How is Ella doing?"

Father wiped his mouth with a napkin and shrugged. "Fine. She really enjoys being lady-in-waiting to the queen."

_She would,_ I thought, concentrating on my food. Ella was nineteen, four years older than me. She loved pink bows and dresses, flowers and make-up. Father's voice jerked me back to the present.

"...unrest in the kingdom." Father looked grim. "There is talk of a civil war, a revolt to throw down the monarchy."

"Why would people do that?" I asked.

Father shrugged. "Who knows?"

"The king has done some things that the people don't like," Mother said, reaching over the table to take my hand.

Father glanced at her. "I don't think we should talk about this with him. He is only fifteen."

I glanced from one parent to the other. "I'm not a child. I think I can handle it." My parents shared a glance, and my eyes narrowed. "You aren't thinking of joining, are you?"

"Of course not," Mother said with a smile. It looked forced.

_She's lying,_ I thought, but nodded and returned my attention to my food. _What are they planning?_

Several months later, pounding came from the door. Father frowned, putting away the knife he was honing. Mother looked up from her sewing, frowning as well. I put down the book the healer had loaned me and opened the door.

Four soldiers wearing the king's colors stood on the doorstep. "Can I help you?" I asked, perplexed.

The soldiers glanced at each other, then one said, "Your family is accused of treason, and will be executed immediately."

I frowned, but before I could do anything, the soldiers rushed into the house and grabbed Father and Mother. One of them grabbed me, and we were all dragged out onto the street. Father struggled in his captors' arms, but it did no good. Mother was screaming.

We were dragged to the castle's courtyard where there were more soldiers and weeping citizens. A hooded man carrying an axe was at one end of the courtyard, and posts were in the other. There was a gallows in the center.

The king himself stood on the castle walls, looking down on the courtyard. His deep voice boomed in the hush that only the women's weeping broke. "You have been arrested for your treasonous actions, and will be executed immediately."

I watched in horror as the soldiers divided everyone into three groups. Some went to the axman, others went to the gallows, and the group I was in went to the poles. Men, women, and children were tied to the poles, and wood was piled at their feet before being doused with coal tar. A soldier touched a flaming torch to the tar-covered wood, and it burst into flames.

I doubled over, vomiting. The king was going to kill everyone here, even the children. How does a child commit treason? Behind me, I could hear the trap doors swinging and the axe whistling down, and dared not look. Closing my eyes, I jammed my fingers into my ears to block out the terrible screams of the people being burned alive. When the screams stopped, the fires were put out and new people were tied to the poles.

I sobbed, trying to block out their screams, but it was no use. When my family's turn came, Mother cried for mercy but was ignored. Glancing over, I saw a young woman clutching a baby. She screamed as flames licked her skin, clutching her baby closer.

I looked away, nauseated. What kind of despicable beast would murder a baby?

On either side of me, Mother and Father cried out and writhed as the wood at their feet was set ablaze. A soldier stepped in front of me, holding a torch, and I knew it was my turn.

The soldier started to lower the torch, then hesitated. He glanced at me, and I saw deep self-loathing and disgust in his gaze. He hesitated, then quickly scooped up a dollop of tar, smearing it on the ropes that bound me. Then he touched the torch to the wood.

Every muscle in my body went rigid, and I cried out, tears streaming down my face. The acrid smoke made my eyes burn, and the heat dried the tears. The tar that the soldier had smeared on the ropes caught on fire, and I struggled. The ropes, weakened by the flames, snapped, and I lurched forward. My foot caught on the wood, making it roll on top of me. Burning tar fell on my neck and face. I frantically wiped it off, screaming, not caring that it burned my hands further.

Once most of the tar was off, I struggled to my feet and started running to the gate. No soldiers followed me.

"Get up, lad," a quiet, earnest voice said. "You mustn't be found."

I groaned, opening my eyes a slit as the voice pulled me from unconsciousness. The soldier who had helped me crouched by my side, concern shining in his eyes. I groaned again, then tried to sit up, but the pain from my torso and legs forced me back down. "I can't."

The soldier glanced at me legs, wincing. Shouting came from the courtyard, and fear filled the man's eyes. Swiftly, he picked me up and ran to the town.

Pain flared from the burns with every jolting step. I struggled to stay conscious. When the soldier stopped running, I forced my eyes open and recognized the healer's house. The last thing I remember was the healer's cry of horror.
Chapter Two

I woke as someone pressed a cup to my lips, dribbling water down my dry throat. Opening my eyes, I saw Cameron, who removed the cup and smiled. "It's good to see you awake, Max."

I frowned and struggled into a sitting position. Bright, sparkling lights filled my vision, and I raised a hand to my head. "What happened?"

Cameron sighed, putting down the cup. "The king tried to burn you at the stake, but you escaped, remember?"

Suddenly, I did remember, and glanced down at my legs, which were covered with a blanket. I glanced at my burned hands and arms, but found only angry red scars. Frowning, I touched my face. The skin was tender, but I could feel the burn scars there.

The healer put a hand on my shoulder. "You have been here for several months. I have kept you drugged so you were unaware of the pain."

I frowned, lifting up the loose shirt I wore. More burn scars were on my stomach and chest. Swallowing hard, I started to lift up the blanket that covered my legs.

Cameron put a hand on the blanket, stopping me. He looked me in the eye and warned, "It isn't a pretty sight, Max."

I took a deep breath. "I must see." Cameron hesitated, then nodded and removed his hand. I pulled the blanket off.

My legs were by far the most scarred. In addition to the angry red welts, several of my toes were missing, and part of my left leg was still wrapped in bandages.

Cameron gently pulled the blanket back up. "The scars will fade, in time." He hesitated, then said, "Your parents are dead."

"Of course they are," I said, turning my head to the side to hide my tears. "I watched them burn, remember?" My voice broke, and I shoved my grief down to where I couldn't feel it anymore.

Cameron was silent for a moment, before saying, "There were more executions of suspected traitors." He continued in a softer tone, "Most of them were children."

My jaw clenched as hatred began to stir in my heart. "How does a _child_ commit treason?" I snarled. "I had never heard of the rebellion until my parents mentioned it a few months before being arrested. The king's reaction to this is extreme."

The healer nodded. "I agree with you." There was silence for a minute, then he asked, "How do you feel about your parents' deaths?"

I clenched my hand. "Hate," I said finally. "Hate for the king."

"And what are you going to do about it?"

I met Cameron's serious blue eyes. "Revenge. He is going to pay for what he did to me. For what he did to my parents. And especially for those children he killed." Cameron nodded approvingly, and I continued, "I will bring down the monarchy, strip the king of his post. He will never be able to hurt anyone ever again."

The healer smiled. "I will help you. There is a position open in the castle, I have heard. They are looking for a new healer."

"I am still your apprentice then?" The healer nodded, and I settled back into the bed sheets. Outwardly, I was calm, and only someone who knew me well would be able to see the burning hatred in my eyes.

Cameron studied me, then held out a cup. "It will take some time to get you into the healer's position. You should spend that time regaining your strength after you have healed. Months lying in a bed have weakened you."

Gritting my teeth, I sat up, then collapsed with a gasp as the half-healed burns on my chest were stretched with the movement. I took deep breaths, patiently waiting for the pain to recede. When it reached a bearable level, I slowly eased myself back up. The pain made tears come to my eyes, and my breath caught in my throat.

Once again, I waited for the pain to fade, then carefully eased my right leg off the bed. Taking a deep breath to brace myself, I eased my left leg over the edge and set it on the ground.

Surprisingly, this hurt less than my chest. _Not surprising,_ I corrected myself. _My nerves must be fried._ I had seen the ugly burn on my leg when the healer had changed the bandages, and had nearly thrown up. Seeing it on other people didn't make me sick, but seeing it on me did. _That doesn't make any sense,_ I thought, then took a deep breath.

"Here goes nothing," I muttered, slowly rising to my feet. My knees trembled from the strain of holding the rest of me up, and a dull burning started in my legs. With a defiant growl, I took a few steps forward but collapsed as my strength failed me. An involuntary half-scream was torn from me when I landed, and I took deep breaths as I waited for the pain to fade.

It didn't go away; at least, not completely. With gritted teeth, I heaved myself into a standing position. After taking a few steps, I reeled drunkenly into a wall, fighting the burning pain in my legs. Using the wall for support, I lurched from the room and into the hall.

Halfway down the hall there was a mirror. I hesitated. "Well, no use putting it off," I muttered. "You're going to see it sooner or later." After taking a deep breath, I stepped in front of the mirror.

My face was badly scarred, and one side of my mouth was pulled down in a frown. Surprisingly, I still had eyebrows, although one was partially burnt at the end. I chuckled quietly, my lips twisting into a ghastly smile. "Worried about your eyebrows, are you?" I asked my reflection. "Those are the least of your worries." In addition to the scars on my face, there was a ring of scars around my neck, and I touched them lightly. "Well, Max," I whispered. "You certainly cheated death."

There was an exclamation of surprise behind me, and I turned slowly to see the healer. "What are you doing?" he demanded, striding up to me.

I gestured at the mirror. "Checking my appearance." I smiled, the scars twisting the expression hideously. "It is pretty ghastly, don't you think?"

Cameron nodded, raising a hand to touch the scars around my neck, then he sighed. "You are only fifteen; you shouldn't have to deal with this." He helped me back to the bed.

I shrugged. "Doesn't matter. We need to play the cards we are dealt, after all." With a smile, I said, "I can frighten little kids now! Scare the hiccups right out of them!" Cameron eyed me doubtfully, and my smile turned into a grin. "Don't you know that hiccups are one of the worst things you can have as a kid? A nightmare, really."

Shaking his head, Cameron said, "Glad to see that you have found a sense of humor. Now lay down."

"Yes, master," I said as I complied. He handed a cup to me, which I drained before handing it back. A strange floating sensation filled me, and I frowned. "Did you drug me?" I asked, my words slurring. The healer nodded, and darkness slammed down.

Ever since the mirror incident, Cameron had kept me semi-conscious to make sure I stayed down until he judged that the burns were healed. For the first time in weeks, I could move without pain, and I swung my legs off the bed. As I looked at the scrawny limbs, I frowned and asked Cameron, "Will these even hold me up?"

Cameron studied my legs. "Probably not." He turned to go, then glanced at me as I started to rise. "Stay right where you are," he said, pointing at me.

I smiled and sat back down. "Yes, master."

Cameron rolled his eyes, then vanished through the door. He returned a moment later with two bags. Putting them on the bed next to me, he said, "Those are filled with rocks. I want you to lift them thirty times with each hand, three times a day. When it becomes easy for you, I will add more weight."

I picked up one of the bags, frowning as my arm trembled. "These are heavy."

With a chuckle, Cameron said, "No, they are not. You only think that because your muscles have atrophied. You need to build them back up, or you will remain a cripple for the rest of your life."

"Fun," I muttered, hefting a bag again. "Just what I wanted to do."

"Cut the sarcasm."

I glared at Cameron. "I don't think you would enjoy this any more than I do."

Cameron nodded in agreement. "Probably not. I am also going to teach you a game."

"Whoopee," I muttered. "Just what I wanted." The healer frowned and opened his mouth, but I sighed and said, "I know, I know. Cut the sarcasm. What's the game?"

"Chess." Cameron went over to a dresser in the corner and opened a drawer.

I frowned. "The game that that senile old man plays against himself?"

Cameron nodded as he walked back to me. There was a leather bag in one hand, a piece of wood with a checkerboard pattern in the other. "Yes, and that senile old man just happens to be one of the most brilliant men in history. And he is my close friend."

My ears reddened with embarrassment. "Sorry."

Cameron nodded again, dumping wooden pieces out of the bag. "You should be. Never judge a person without getting to know them first. Some people are experts at hiding their true colors, and the only way to know their true colors is to be close to them."

"And the old man is one of those people?"

"Yes." Cameron arranged the wooden pieces on the board. "People think he is senile, but that is only because he wants them too. That way, he can strike with impunity. Who would suspect a senile old man to be a master manipulator?"

"Not me," I admitted, studying the board. "What are you going to do with this?"

Cameron placed the last piece on the board and glanced at me. "We will play this when you lift the weights. Any idea why?"

"I have played chess before," I said after a moment of silence. Cameron looked surprised, and I added, "Against the old man." After he nodded, I continued. "He crushed me. One moment, I thought I was winning, and the next my pieces were all gone and I was in checkmate."

Cameron smiled. "Do you know how he did it?" I shook my head, and he said, "He drew you out, one piece at a time, until your pieces weren't defended. And then he smashed you."

"What will I be doing when I am not doing this?"

"Strengthening your legs."

I rolled my eyes. "I know that. What else?"

"Training." Cameron studied the board. "You do want to be a healer in the king's court right?" He moved a piece, then sat back and looked at me.

"Whoopee," I muttered.
Chapter Three

Ella lit a candle, then placed it in her window. There were two more lit candles there. She then went over to her bed and pulled a painting out from under her pillow. It was of her family. After looking at it for a moment, she placed it below the candles. Tears welled up in her eyes. They had been executed four years ago today. She lit candles every year to remember them.

"You are going to get all weepy again, dear," a gentle voice said behind her, and Ella turned to see the queen. Queen Jane smiled, not unkindly, and put her arm over Ella's shoulders. "They are gone, Ella. They have moved on from this life, and you need to let them go."

Ella's tears spilled onto her cheeks. "I know, I know," she sobbed. "But I can't! Mother and Father were wonderful people. And Max..." Her sobs redoubled.

Jane sighed and pulled Ella close, stroking her golden curls with a bejeweled hand. "Sweetie, I know it is hard, but you must let them go. You won't be happy otherwise."

"Why should I be happy when Max never got the chance?" Ella whispered, fresh tears spilling down her cheeks.

*

I did ten quick push-ups, then kicked my feet up until I was in a handstand. Moving slowly, I lowered myself until my black hair touched the ground, then straightened my arms to push myself back up. Taking a deep breath, I repeated the maneuver several times.

Cameron walked around me, nodding his approval. "Very good, Max. Very good. Your balance is almost perfect."

I lowered my legs until they touched the ground, then straightened. Flashing a quick smile at Cameron, I said, "I've been working on it."

Cameron eyed my muscular torso. "It shows. Get cleaned up. The king's new healer has agreed to apprentice you."

I nodded and went over to the well. I emptied the bucket of water over my head, then shook my hair to dislodge some water. Cameron tossed a towel at me and went inside. After drying myself, I followed.

Cameron was rummaging in a chest, and I frowned. "What are you doing?"

With a cry of triumph, Cameron straightened and flourished a shirt and pair of pants. The shirt was a deep navy blue with silver buttons down the front and on the cuffs, and the pants were a plain black. He handed them to me.

I eyed the clothes doubtfully. "What are these for?"

"They are for you." I raised a brow, and Cameron said in an exasperated voice, "You have to look the part as well as be the part."

"Right," I replied, still looking at the clothes. "But I am not wearing a blue shirt." I handed it back to Cameron.

He shook his head and dug in the chest again. This time, he pulled out a long-sleeved, deep red button down shirt and a black vest. "Is this better?"

I nodded and put it on, then buttoned on the vest. Cameron produced a comb, but I shook my head and raked my fingers through my hair. It flopped over my brow, and Cameron eyed it. "No, you are not cutting it," I said, raising my hands in a warding gesture.

Cameron shrugged, then pulled black leather gloves out of the chest. "Here," he said, tossing them to me.

"Good thinking," I said, pulling them on to hide my scarred hands. I glanced at Cameron. "How do I look?"

"Like someone in the king's court." Cameron straightened the vest. "Now smile." I did, and Cameron winced. "Maybe not."

I nodded and sat down to pull on my boots. "We wouldn't want to frighten the little kids, now would we?" After I got my boots on, I followed Cameron to his stable, where his two horses were. We saddled them, then rode to the castle.

At the gate to the courtyard, the two guards crossed their spears to bar our way. "State your business," the one on the right said.

Cameron gestured to me. "This is the healer's new apprentice."

The guards eyed me, and the one on the left asked, "What happened to his face?"

"An accident, sir," I replied, bowing my head. "I tripped and fell into a fireplace."

The guard grunted and they both raised their spears. They waved us through, and when we were out of earshot, Cameron leaned over and said, "Good thinking."

Servants came out of hidden doors to take our horses when we dismounted, and one bowed to us. "Good sirs, if you will follow me?"

Cameron nodded. "Lead the way."

The servant led us into the castle, and I studied the corridors intently, mentally drawing a map of the interior. The people we passed stared at me, and I looked down, my ears growing hot with embarrassment. I hated being stared at.

The servant led us into a room, and I sighed in relief as we left the people in the corridors. There were three people in the room with us: the king and queen, and another man who I assumed was the king's healer.

Cameron bowed to the king and queen, then turned to the healer. "Here he is, Master Larpsen," he said, gesturing to me.

Larpsen, who was a tall, lanky man, looked at me down his nose as I bowed awkwardly. He sniffed disdainfully. "I've seen better, but he'll do."

I mumbled my thanks, then looked up in surprise as Queen Jane stepped forward. She touched my cheek, her eyes filling with tears. "What happened, child?"

Bowing my head, I said quietly, "I fell into a fireplace."

"Oh, you poor thing," she whispered, then stepped back to the king's side.

"Are you sure you want this mutilated runt as your apprentice?" King Daveen asked Larpsen.

I stared at my boots as my hands started shaking from anger. Forcing my expression to remain neutral, I clasped my hands behind my back.

Larpsen sniffed again. "He'll do."

Daveen grunted and addressed Cameron. "You may leave." Cameron bowed again and backed out, and the king turned to Larpsen. "Go show him his new home."

Larpsen nodded and beckoned to me. He led the way out of the room and deeper into the castle. I stayed behind him until he snapped, "You are not a packhorse, boy. Get up here."

"Yes, master," I replied, quickening my pace to match Larpsen's long strides.

Larpsen deposited me in an empty room, saying with another self-righteous sniff, "This is yours."

I watched him walk off with his beaky nose raised, and snorted. "If you put that any higher, your head will fall off," I muttered, walking into my room and closing the door behind me. Sitting on the massive bed, I pulled off my gloves and had started to remove my boots when there was a knock on my door.

"Come in," I called.

A servant entered and bowed. Without meeting my eyes, he said, "May I assist you, good sir?"

I eyed him, studying his worn clothes and hunched shoulders. He looked like he was a few years younger than me. Shaking my head, I said, "No, you may not."

The servant cringed, glancing up quickly. "Have I offended you, good sir?"

"No." I patted the bed beside me. "Come sit." He hesitated, then sat gingerly on the edge of the bed. "What is your name?"

"Adam."

I smiled and held out my hand. "It is nice to meet you, Adam. My name is Chance." Cameron and I had both decided that it would be better if I didn't use my real name.

Adam shook my hand, then studied me with light blue eyes. He shook his head. "No, it isn't."

I smiled again, raising a finger to my lips. "Our secret."

Adam smiled too. "All right, Master Chance. Our secret."

The next morning, Larpsen entered my room without knocking. I had just barely gotten out of the tub Adam had filled for me and only had pants and boots on. Larpsen studied my scarred chest and arms with an appraising eye. "Fell into a fireplace, huh? That is an awful lot of scars for one fireplace."

I kept my face expressionless as I pulled on a black shirt. "It was a large fireplace."

Larpsen's eyes narrowed suspiciously, and I held his stare until he looked away. He threw up his hands. "Keep your secrets then. The king has an audience with his lords today, and we need to be there."

I nodded, toweled my hair dry and pulled on my gloves, then followed Larpsen.

*

Ella was sitting beside the queen when the healer strutted into the audience room. She covered her mouth with one hand to hide her smile, then whispered to Queen Jane, "He looks like a peacock."

Jane chuckled quietly, whispering back, "All he needs are feathers."

Ella giggled, but fell silent when another man slipped in after the healer. "Who is that?"

"That is the healer's apprentice," Jane answered. "He arrived yesterday."

Ella frowned and sat back. _He doesn't look like the type to be a healer,_ she thought, studying the dark-haired boy and the way he moved. _He looks like he should be a warrior._

The healer's apprentice had kept his head bowed as he walked in, but now he raised it to study the people in the room. Ella stifled a gasp. Even from where she sat, she could tell that he was terribly scarred. Leaning over to the queen, she asked, "What happened to him?"

Jane's eyes filled with sorrow. "He fell into a fireplace, the poor thing. He would be quite handsome without the scars, don't you think?"

Ella shrugged. She wanted to get the queen's mind away from marriage prospects, so she asked, "Are all of the lords here?"

Jane pursed her lips, studying the lords who were seated across from her. She shook her head. "No. There is one who is missing."

Ella nodded, silently breathing a sigh of relief. That was close.
Chapter Four

I sat next to Larpsen with the rest of the king's advisors. The bickering lords were to our right, and the dais where the king and queen sat was to our left. My sister was sitting next to the queen, wearing a frilly pink dress with bows. I smiled slightly. Some things never change.

The king entered and sat down next to the queen, and the lords turned their attention to him. Daveen scanned the crowd, then asked in his deep, booming voice, "Where is Lord Evin?"

At that instant, a young man ran into the audience chamber. He stumbled to a halt, gasping, and performed a deep bow that almost made him fall over. "I'm sorry, Majesty. I couldn't find this room."

The king's lips curled in contempt. "Go sit down, and we will get started." The young lord bowed again and found an empty seat.

I studied the young man, who appeared to be a little older than me. _This must be his first time,_ I thought. _He's still wet behind the ears._

Daveen asked the assembled lords about their estates, and one lord stood up. He was very fat and owned a bristling walrus mustache. I kept my face blank, fighting the urge to laugh. A quick glance at Ella told me she was in the same predicament.

"Majesty," the lord said. "The people in my town are growing restless. They are refusing to work and are neglecting the fields. There have been several protests against your inspired tax laws, and several of my close friends have been murdered. What should I do?"

Daveen shrugged. "Crush them. I will provide soldiers if you require them."

The fat lord smiled. "With pleasure, Sire," he said, then sat back down.

My hands clenched in anger, but I forced the emotion back down. There was a time for action, but that time was not now. Forcing myself to relax, I scanned the lords. The only one who seemed sickened by the idea was young Lord Evin. I watched him turn green slightly, then shoot a look of pure venom at the king. Interesting.

When the audience ended after a few more reports of protests, I followed Larpsen out of the room, then stopped. Larpsen walked off, looking down his nose at everyone he passed. He didn't notice that I wasn't following him anymore, and I smiled, shaking my head. "Just what I thought."

I waited in the shadows, watching as the lords all filed out. The last to leave was Evin, and he walked with a bowed head and dragging feet. After glancing around, I followed him as he navigated the corridors. Or tried to, at least. Several times, he had to pull aside a servant and ask for directions. He eventually made it to the library, and I slipped in behind him.

*

Evin quickly walked down the shelves, scanning the book titles. When he had a stack of books in his arms, he walked over to a table and dumped his burden. Selecting a book at random, he flipped through the pages, stopping to read whenever he saw the words _king_ or _lord._ After doing that, he picked another book and did the same.

"Just what I thought," Evin muttered after scanning several more books. "The king and the lords have it all wrong." He sighed and gathered the books to place them back on the shelves.

"You forgot one," someone said behind him.

Evin whirled, scattering books, then tripped. Picking himself up with as much dignity as he could muster, Evin bent to pick up the books and said, "Don't do that. Hasn't anyone ever told you that sneaking up on people isn't kind?"

A gloved hand entered his field of vision and picked up the books behind Evin. The books were placed on Evin's pile, and he stood. "Thank you, sir." Evin looked at his helper for the first time and let loose a strangled scream, dumping the books again.

The scarred man raised his brows, smiling slightly. His brown eyes held a twinkle of amusement. "Well, I have certainly never had that reaction before," he said as he crouched to pick up the books.

Evin avoided looking at him as he handed Evin the books. "Sorry. I was just...surprised."

The man chuckled. "That's putting it mildly." He followed Evin as Evin returned the books.

Evin turned to him. "What do you need?"

"You don't like the king."

Evin flinched, then slowly raised his eyes to the man's. "That was rather blunt."

"It's the truth, isn't it?"

"Yes." Evin glanced at the man. "Are you going to tell him?"

The man smiled, and Evin winced as the scars on his face twisted the expression. "No, I'm not going to tell. I am just glad to have found someone who agrees with me." He turned and walked out.

Evin gazed after him, frowning. _I agree with him?_ he thought, puzzled.

*

That night, I pulled on a black mask that left only my eyes uncovered, then checked the door to make sure it was locked. After blowing out the small candle, I opened my window and stepped onto the ledge. Looking up, I jumped and grabbed the edge of the roof. Before my grip weakened, I pulled myself up and crouched, scanning for guards.

I didn't see any, so I stood and ran light-footed across the roof. At the edge of the roof, I lowered myself onto a wall below it and ran away from the castle.

When I reached the correct street, I jumped down from and walked along the street to a house with one candle lit in a window. I glanced up and down the street to make sure I was alone and knocked.

The quiet murmur of voices stopped. An old man unlocked the door and pulled it open. He eyed me, then indicated that I should go in. I thanked him and stepped inside.

In the dining room, there were about twenty people who all looked at me with varying degrees of suspicion. "May I join you?" I asked, my words muffled by the mask.

A burly man with a soot-stained apron scowled. "Who are you?"

"My name is Max. I want to help."

A slender, one-eyed girl snorted. "Do you really expect up to trust someone who won't show his face?"

I hesitated, then shook my head. "No. But I am willing to bet that I hate the king as much as you, possibly more."

"That is a bold claim," the one-eyed girl said, her lips twisted in a sardonic smile. "What has he ever done to you? Obviously not taken your home, like he did to me. Your clothes are high quality, so he obviously didn't take your money, like he did to Randall," she gestured to a small man with a nervous twitch on the far side of the room.

"No, he didn't take those from me," I said, my voice quiet. "He took something far worse. My family. I barely escaped with my life."

The man with the apron eyed me. "So that is why you won't show your face."

I nodded. "If the king ever finds out about me, he will finish the job he started."

The man with the apron glanced around the room, then said, "You're welcome among us. I'm Job, and the bad-tempered lass over there is my daughter, Katarina." He then introduced the rest of the people in the room, but I didn't bother to try and remember them all.

Job folded bulging arms across a massive chest and leaned against a table. "We were discussing how we were going to take down the king." I nodded, gesturing for him to continue. "We want equal rights, and the only way I can think to get them is to get rid of the king."

"What were you thinking of doing?" I asked, and Job explained their plan. Wheels started turning in my head. Turning to Job, I asked, "Do you have a chessboard?"

I woke when Adam entered my room and opened the curtains. Sitting up, I rubbed my bleary eyes and yawned. A quick glance at the window told me that it was well past sunrise. "What is it?" I asked, yawing again.

"The king has another audience this morning," Adam replied. He glanced at me, and his eyes went wide. "If that happened because of a fall into a fireplace, then I am a monkey's uncle."

I glanced down at my bare chest, then shrugged. "It was a big fireplace." I stood and pulled on the pair of pants I wore yesterday, then rifled through the wardrobe. Adam eyed the dark gray shirt I pulled out, shaking his head. After pulling it on, I asked, "What?"

Adam smiled. "I was about to suggest that you wear the turquoise."

"No way. I would stick out like a sour thumb."

"Don't you want people to notice you?"

"Nope," I said, pulling on my boots and gloves. "When people do notice me, they tend to stare. And I don't like it when they stare."

I left Adam gawking after me and navigated the halls to the audience chamber. Larpsen was already there, and he sniffed at me disdainfully as I took a seat next to him. "You're late."

I chose not to reply to this, watching the king instead. He seemed to be in a bad mood, and I hid a smile. King Daveen waited until the lords were seated, then stood and said, "The rebels struck last night, killing my brother." He pointed to someone in the crowd. "And it was done in _your_ town, Lord Sarsen. What have you to say for yourself?"

_Katarina did her job well,_ I thought, pleased.

The fat man with the walrus mustache stood, his doughy face pale. "Your Majesty, I destroyed the rebels! You are mistaken!"

The king eyed him coldly, then addressed the guards. "Lock him up. He will be executed in the evening."

Guards surrounded Sarsen and dragged him, weeping, out the door. I once again hid a smile, glancing at my sister. Ella looked sick. I glanced at Evin, not surprised to see satisfaction on his face, although he quickly assumed a blank expression.

For the rest of the audience, the lords were subdued. They meekly agreed to everything the king suggested. When it was done, I stretched, then once again followed Evin when he exited. He wandered through the corridors and eventually ended up outside. Evin walked through the gardens, idly trailing his fingers along the flower petals.

I cleared my throat loudly, and Evin turned. He studied me, then sighed. "Thank you for not sneaking up on me."

I shrugged, wandering closer. "I decided that I had better not make you scream again."

Evin smiled ruefully. "Thanks. Why do you keep following me, anyway?"

Studying a rose, I said, "I like you. You haven't been corrupted by your own power."

With a snort, Evin said, "I hardly have any. My estate is the smallest out of all the other estates, and I am just a fly on the wall in audiences."

"I'm willing to bet that you are kind to your people."

Evin scowled. "Whether I am or not is not any of your concern, mister, I-don't-know-your-name, and you—"

"My name is Chance," I said, interrupting him with a smile. "And if I were you, I would duck." Evin frowned, opening his mouth to say something. I pointed at the ground. "Down."

With confusion written all over his face, Evin crouched At that same instant, a crossbow bolt whizzed over his head and _thunked_ into a tree several yards away. Evin glanced around in alarm, rubbing his head. "What was that?"

"That," I said, "was an assassin hired by one of the lords who resent you. I can't remember his name. It is quite safe now to stand. The assassin has been apprehended."

Evin straightened slowly. "How do you know?" Shouts came from the castle walls, and Evin winced. "I guess that's how. But how did you know about the assassin? _Who are you?"_

I smiled, turning to walk back to the castle. "Come."
Chapter Five

I led Evin to my room. Once inside, I locked the door and turned to the young lord. "I knew about the assassin because I have some friends who keep tabs on the assassins in the city."

Evin's eyes narrowed. "And who are these so-called friends?"

"I'm afraid I can't tell you that," I said with a smile.

"Can you answer my other question? About who you are?"

I shrugged, wandering over to a table with a chessboard on it. "Do you know what piece is the strongest in the game of chess?"

Evin let out a frustrated growl, marching over to stand next to me. "You haven't answered my question." I raised a brow at him, and he sighed, reaching over to pick up the queen piece. "The queen is the strongest."

I shook my head. "No, it is not." Evin raised a brow, and I said, "The pawn is the strongest. There are many pawns, and if they get to the other side, they can turn into the rook, the bishop, the knight, or the queen. They are not weak at all, although many people think that. The weakest piece is the king, but I am assuming you already know that."

Evin frowned at me. "And your point is?"

With a shrug, I said, "Nothing, really. I just wanted to show that to you."

Evin was quiet for a moment, then said, "You are really strange."

"Aren't we all?" I asked with a smile.

"You still haven't answered my question."

"I am the healer's apprentice." I tilted my head slightly. "Does that answer your question?"

"No. I already knew that."

"I am very unlucky, if you can't tell. I was severely burned several years ago. My parents were brutally murdered, and my sister thinks I am dead. If the king knew who I am, he would not hesitate to kill me."

Evin frowned, pondering this. "Are you a rebel?" he finally asked. I didn't say anything, and he hurried to add, "I won't tell anyone if you are; I admire them. They have a lot of courage."

I shook my head. "No, I am not a rebel." Smiling crookedly, I said, "I don't have their courage." Seeing the uncertainty in Evin's eyes, I added, "That doesn't mean I like the king."

Evin studied me, then said, "I think I might actually like you someday."

I opened my mouth to reply, but there was a knock on the door. Gesturing for Evin to hide, I opened the door and was confronted by a scowling Larpsen. "Yes?"

"The rebels have struck again," Larpsen said. "Many people are injured. We are needed."

Stepping out the door, I said, "Lead the way." As I followed the pompous healer, I heard the door open and quiet footsteps moving away as Evin made his escape.

*

"Do you have anything good to give me, or it this a waste of my time?"

"I...I overheard him talking to that foolish lord you are always complaining about. He talked about chess pieces; which were strongest and weakest."

There was the sound of flesh striking flesh and a cry of pain, then the man growled, "You waste my time."

"No, no. Listen to me!" the informant pleaded. "He then said that he was burned several years ago, and his parents were killed. He says that his sister thinks he is dead, and that you would kill him if you knew who he was." He started speaking faster. "The lord asked if he was a rebel, and he said that he wasn't, but that he didn't like you, either. Please, please, Sire! Don't hurt Emily. I have told you all I know!"

"So? I can still hurt her if I want to. I think there is something else you aren't telling me."

The informant hesitated, then whispered, "He said that his real name isn't Chance."

A cruel smiled twisted the king's lips. "Just as I thought. Keep bringing me more information, and Emily will not be hurt."

"Oh, thank you, Sire. All praises to your name."

*

I stitched a man's torn leg closed, ignoring his groans. When I was done, I wrapped a bandage around it and moved to the next person. He was struggling to breathe, blood pouring down his bare chest from a stab wound. As I watched, he took one last, bubbling breath and died.

Shaking my head, I moved to the next patient, a young girl with a nasty cut on her cheek. Her eyes went wide as she saw me, and she whimpered as I crouched next to her.

A hand tentatively touched my shoulder, and I turned to see the queen. She smiled. "Let me do this one."

I nodded and moved to the next patient. Both of his legs were broken below the knee. Fortunately, he was unconscious. I straightened his legs and put splints on them, then glanced around. Larpsen was almost finished with the last person, and my sister and the queen were comforting the girl. After wiping blood off my hands, I pulled on my gloves and stood.

Walking over to Larpsen, I asked, "How many did we lose?"

Larpsen cast a calculating eye over everyone in the room. "Seven, if I remember right."

I nodded and exited the room. The attack had almost ended in failure, but Katarina had completed her mission. The deaths were unfortunate; the rebels would have to be more careful in the future.

On my way back to my room, I was stopped by the king. He smiled at me and clasped my shoulder in a friendly manner. "Good work today, Chance. You and Larpsen are truly masters at your craft."

I shrugged. "Not really. We lost seven."

"But you saved most of them," Daveen said with another smile. "That is what counts." He squeezed my shoulder, then walked on down the corridor.

I gazed after him, frowning slightly. "You're lying," I muttered before going to my room.

*

The king entered his room several hours later, shooing off the servants that instantly flocked to his side. He walked to his bed and sat, lacing his fingers. The man who called himself Chance was a mystery indeed; one that he was going to solve.

"Sire," a servant said, handing him a folded piece of paper. "The healer's apprentice dropped this off."

The king frowned, opening the paper. He quickly scanned it, then glanced up at the servant. "A scarred man dropped this off?" The servant nodded and withdrew, and the king pursed his lips thoughtfully.

*

"Adam."

Adam turned, his shoulders hunching. "Yes, good sir?"

I raised a hand and beckoned. "Come here." After hesitating, Adam walked over, looking fearful. I smiled reassuringly at him. "You don't have to be scared of me. I am not going to hurt you. And call me Chance. All this 'good sir' stuff is making me feel old."

Adam smiled tentatively. "Okay...Chance."

I nodded approvingly. "That's better. Now, I am itching for a game of chess. Do you know how to play?" Adam rolled his eyes, and I said, "I guess that means you don't. Come here."

*

Behind the hidden door to his apprentice's quarters, Larpsen snorted softly as he listened to "Chance" explaining the game to the servant. "You must know by now that your every word reaches the king's ear," he murmured. "My poor, foolish apprentice."

Shaking his head, Larpsen straightened and walked down the passageway to report.

*

Evin was on his way to Chance's room when Larpsen hurried past. Stopping, Evin turned to watch him go, frowning. Then, with a shrug, he continued on his way. He knocked lightly on the door and entered.

After spotting the chess game, Evin smiled and shook his head, saying, "Are you going to infect everyone in the castle with that game?"

Chance looked up and grinned, his black hair flopping over his brow. "I can try. Have a seat. I was just teaching Adam how to play."

Evin rolled his eyes. Gesturing to Adam, he said, "See what I mean? You are infecting everyone; even the servants!" After sitting, he said, "I just passed Larpsen. Was he in here?"

Chance frowned, looking up at Evin. "No."

Adam glanced from Evin to Chance. "Good sir...The master healer has been spying on you. I see him sometimes when I am cleaning in here. I think he is reporting to the king."

Chance frowned again, looking alarmed. "What will he do?"

Evin shrugged. "Depends on what Larpsen has overheard, and what he tells the king. The king won't act unless he is certain of his own success. When he does act, it tends to be violent and swift."

Adam smiled, putting a hand on Chance's arm. "Don't worry, good sir. It will be all right."

Chance sighed, looking pleadingly up to the heavens. "Didn't I tell you not to call me that?"

Evin smiled at his tone, but watched the servant. He was very good at sniffing out rats, and he smelled one now.
Chapter Six

I splinted a soldier's broken leg, then sat back as two other soldiers picked up the stretcher he was laying on and carried their groaning comrade off the practice field.

"He was foolish. He wasn't guarding his legs."

I turned to see Evin, and smiled as I stood. "Yes. At least this will teach him. Hopefully."

Evin grinned. "If he doesn't learn, he is either a fool, or just stupid."

Gesturing to the sword around his waist, I asked, "Do you know how to use that?"

Evin flushed with embarrassment. "Err...Not yet; at least, not very well."

With a shrug, I said, "That is better than me. I don't know how to use one at all." Tilting my head, I added, "Maybe you could teach me?"

"No, I wouldn't even try," he replied. "I'm not good at all. But you can come with me to my lessons."

I smiled. "Who is your teacher?"

"The healer."

I frowned. "He knows swordplay?"

Nodding emphatically, Evin said, "Who would've thought it? He is one of the best swordsmen that I have seen. He can face several men at once, and win with ease."

My brows rose. "Really? It seems that I should come with you. Will Larpsen be all right with that?"

Evin shrugged, then grinned. "I don't see why not. Come on. We'll get you a sword, and you can learn it with me."

"Why do you seem so happy about that?" I asked as I followed him.

Evin glanced at me, his hand dipping into a barrel that held practice swords. "Larpsen is a strict teacher. He isn't proud at all. It is like he is an entirely different person. I would like someone to suffer along with me." He handed me a practice sword, grabbing one for himself as well. "Come on; I don't want to be late."

Evin led me to an empty part of the practice grounds where Larpsen stood, impatiently tapping his toe. He cast a measuring glance at me, his eyes narrowed. "It seems that you have found a stray pup, Evin. Let's see what he is made of."

I frowned in confusion, then had to hurry and block the sword stroke Larpsen aimed at my head with his practice sword. The block was clumsy, then I had to deflect another swing. Again, my block was clumsy, and Larpsen snorted, lowering his sword. "You might have talent. Take off your shirt."

I frowned. "Take off my shirt?"

Larpsen gestured impatiently. "Come on; off with it. We wouldn't want you to overheat, now would we? You too, Evin."

Still, I hesitated, and Larpsen's eyes acquired a dangerous glint. I hurried and stripped off my shirt, revealing my muscular torso with the terrible scars. Glaring at Larpsen, I asked, "Happy?"

Larpsen nodded, then stepped forward to finger some of the scars on my chest. I knocked his hand away, scowling. "Are you going to start, or should I leave?"

Larpsen clucked his tongue, shaking his head. "Such impatience. Patience is a virtue, you know."

I forced my temper down with an effort and asked in a reasonable tone, "Are you going to teach us or not?"

A ghost of a smile touched Larpsen's lips. "Of course. Evin! Show me what you learned yesterday."

Evin nodded, balancing on the balls of his feet. His practice sword was swung a little unsteadily in an overhand cut, then a side hand and backhand. Larpsen nodded approvingly. "Good job. You will need to perfect those swings, however. Go over to those poles and attack one."

Evin nodded and walked off, leaving me alone with Larpsen. I watched the warrior healer warily, but he merely walked around me. He then showed me different sword strokes before telling me to go up on my toes and repeat them. I did so with a little more success than Evin, and Larpsen nodded approvingly.

Before I could register the movement, Larpsen's wooden sword was whistling toward me and I felt a sharp pain on my bare shoulder. I hissed, then skipped back out of range, watching Larpsen. He studied me for a moment, then moved forward with deceptively smooth, swift steps that brought him within striking distance. I blocked his authoritative strokes awkwardly, my arm growing numb.

After a quick succession of hammer blows, Larpsen simply battered the sword from my weakened grasp. Seeing him raising the sword for another blow, I dove into a forward roll, scooping up my practice sword as I came upright.

My breathing was coming in harsh gasps, and the sword trembled in my grasp. Larpsen just watched me, however, until I lowered the sword. "Good job," he said. "That was pretty good for someone who has never held a sword before."

I shrugged, still watching him warily. "I have been trained with daggers and in unarmed combat."

Larpsen raised a brow. "You have? Well, no wonder you are so good with the sword. Show me what you know with the dagger. And unarmed fighting."

"Why?"

Again, he raised a brow. "Because I would like to see if I can teach you anything else. And don't use that tone with me." He pulled a dagger from his boot, holding it out to me hilt first.

I took it, holding it in my right hand. Dropping into a crouch, I moved forward on the balls of my feet, cutting the air with the dagger in complex patterns. Spinning, I flipped the dagger, caught it by the blade, and hurled it at a target a few yards away. It flashed through the air before slamming into the target, hilt quivering.

Larpsen grunted. "Good. Unarmed combat."

I tilted my head, looking at him. "Attack me."

Larpsen seemed surprised, then he smiled. "Very well, Chance."

Without warning, he jumped into the air and spun, his leg lashing out. I swayed back, allowing the blow to pass by harmlessly, then attacked Larpsen as he landed. My fists hit his chest in a quick succession of blows, then I aimed a vicious right hook at his jaw. Larpsen swayed back so the blow only grazed his chin and returned the favor. His fist hit the side of my head, making stars flash in my eyes as I staggered back.

When I regained my equilibrium, Larpsen was standing a few feet away, watching me. "I will have to help you improve your speed, and teach you the dirty tricks people use when fighting unarmed." He picked up the practice sword I was using and tossed it to me. "Go and join Evin."

*

Two hours later, Ella was walking along the corridors, lost in thought. She turned a corner and stopped, surprised to see the healer's apprentice kneeling down to pull on his boot. He looked up at the sound of her footsteps, and she hid a shudder at the sight of his scarred features. He stood, pulling leather gloves over his scarred hands as he watched her.

"I'm sorry," Ella said, avoiding his gaze. "I didn't mean to sneak up on you." When he didn't reply, she glanced up and met his intense brown eyes.

"You didn't sneak up on me, Lady Ella," he replied in a soft, toneless voice, then turned to go.

Ella watched him walk down the corridor, frowning. Something was bothering her about the healer's apprentice. It was almost as if she already knew him.

*

Larpsen was waiting for me back at my room, his nose in the air. Mentally, I sighed. He was back on his high horse again. I stopped in front of him, raising a brow. "Do you need something?"

Larpsen nodded. "The king requests your presence, and I decided to tell you personally."

I stifled a sigh. "All right. Where is he?" Larpsen started walking off down the corridor, not even waiting for me. This time I sighed out loud, then followed.

Larpsen showed me to a room and opened the door. I entered the room, and Daveen smiled. "Chance! Have a seat. How are you, my friend?"

I sat warily, watching Daveen. "Well enough. What did you need?"

Daveen sat back and laced his fingers. "I just wanted to thank you. Because of the note you gave me, the rebel attack ended in failure, and many lives were spared."

I shrugged. "I am training to be a healer; I want to preserve as many people as I can. The rebels are savages, and need to be stopped."

The king smiled. "My thoughts exactly. You may go, Chance. And any more information you can give me will be welcome."

I stood and bowed, then exited the room. I glanced out the windows I passed, calculating how much daylight was left. Already, the sun was sinking, painting the sky with red and gold hues. It was time to pay the rebels another visit.

"The king knew about our attack," Randall said, his eyes darting. "We are doomed."

Katarina snorted. "Calm down, Randall. It was just one failed mission. Nothing to be concerned about."

"The plan isn't to win," I said. "It is to draw out his forces so they are scattered. The king will be vulnerable without the soldiers to protect him. Then Katarina can sneak in the castle without any difficulty."

Job nodded, folding his arms across his chest. "It is a good plan. Where do we strike next?"

"In the other direction." I pointed at a spot on the map on the table. "Daveen's uncle lives there. Katarina should take him out."

Job studied the map, then met my eyes. "You are trying to get rid of the king's heirs."

I nodded. "It is no use getting rid of the king if he has someone who can take his place." I glanced at everyone in the room, then turned back to Job. "I need to speak with you. Alone."

Job nodded, jerking his head at the door. With reluctant grumbles, the rest of the people filtered out, leaving us alone. Raising a brow, Job asked, "What is it?" I glanced around to make sure we were alone, then pulled off the mask. Job recoiled, his eyes narrowing. "You're the healer's apprentice. Chance."

I nodded. "Chance isn't my real name, but yes."

"How do we know we can trust you?" he growled, his hands twitching toward the knife in his belt. "I bet you told the king about the attack that you planned, so it would fail."

I smiled. "I did. But I will also feed the king false information. I want the soldiers to be spread out and unable to defend the king. Then we will strike, and end his reign of terror forever. I'm not asking you to trust me; only to help me."

"Help you with what?"

"That question has an obvious answer," I said. "Why do you think I have these scars? They are from that tyrant. I am asking you to help me to get rid of him."

Job's suspicious look faded a little. "What do you need?"

"I have found a lord who may be sympathetic to our cause. The king doesn't like him, so I need your help." Job nodded, and I explained my plan to him.

After I finished, Job rubbed his chin. "I can do that. When?"

"I will let you know when I am ready. Can you tell Katarina to plant an assassination note where Evin will find it? A few days after planting the note, she will need to pretend to assassinate him. Injure him a little, but not seriously. And I need you to tell the rebels in the other villages to cause riots. The king will send soldiers to subdue them, which will leave him undefended."

Job nodded as I pulled my mask back on. "She can do that," he said. Tilting his head, Job said, "Be careful, Max. It is a dangerous game that you are playing."

I nodded and exited the house.

Evin grinned at me after Larpsen's sword fighting lessons. "Is it just me, or are you going to have some bruises? I think Larpsen likes to cause us pain, which is strange for a healer."

I shrugged. "Everyone likes to do different things. He is using pain to teach us what will happen if we don't learn the correct techniques."

Evin made a face. "That doesn't mean I have to like it."

I grinned. "No, it certainly doesn't. Would you like to play chess?"

Evin groaned.

*

From a dark corner, Ella watched the young Lord Evin and the healer's apprentice play chess. Chance's expression was neutral, but the lord was scowling as he pondered his next move. From this, Ella deduced that he was losing.

As if sensing her gaze, Chance looked at her. His intense brown eyes bored into her, his expression unreadable. Shuddering, Ella hurried to her room.

The queen was in there, embroidering a pillowcase, and looked up when Ella entered. After closing the door, Ella started pacing.

The queen put aside her embroidery, standing to take Ella's hands. "What is wrong, dear?"

Ella shook her head, pulling her hands free to pace again. "The healer's apprentice. Chance. It is almost as if I already know him. But that is impossible."

On an impulse, Ella went to her bed and pulled her family portrait out from under her pillow. Her eyes were drawn to Max, to his twinkling brown eyes, and the realization struck her like a bucket of cold water. "Chance" was Max! He was alive!
Chapter Seven

I was walking down a corridor when Ella stepped out in front of me. Her eyes filled with tears, and she started running. When she reached me, I caught her and spun her around to absorb her momentum, then set her on her feet. Ella looked up at me, brushing tears from her eyes. "You're alive. Why didn't you tell me?"

I tried to walk past her, but she blocked me, and I sighed. "Because the king would kill me if he knew who I was." I once again tried to go around her.

Her eyes filled with confusion. "He wouldn't do that. He is an honorable man."

I snorted. "And pigs can fly. He would like to finish what he started four years ago. Now, if you will excuse me." I brushed past her and walked quickly down the corridor.

Later that night, I snuck into Evin's room while he was eating dinner and poked around in his bags. When I found his seal, I smiled, then hunted for a letter he had written. Taking the two items I had stolen to my room, I spent several hours perfecting my forgery of Evin's handwriting and signature. When I was satisfied, I wrote a letter and stamped it with Evin's seal. With a smile, I blew out the candle and went to bed.

*

"He is almost ready to make his move."

"Good. We will be ready. Does he suspect you?"

The tall man scowled. "No. He still thinks I am an idiot."

"Good. Protect him, Larpsen. He will need it."

"Yes, Sire."

*

The audience next morning had a subdued, fearful air, and I smiled slightly. The king appeared to be in another rage, and the reason became clear when the king stood.

"Another of my lords has been assassinated. I want you to destroy the rebels! Show them no mercy! This audience is over."

I watched, smiling, as the king stormed out.

At noon, I made my way to the king's room. The guards posted there glared at me. "No visitors allowed."

I smiled. The expression held no trace of amusement. "I have some information the king will want to know."

The guards glared at me, then one shrugged and knocked on the door. After an invitation to enter from the king, I opened the door and walked in.

The king frowned as he saw me. "Chance. Sit, please."

I bowed to him, then took my seat. After a brief hesitation, I said, "I am very sorry about your lord."

The king's nostrils flared with fury. "He was my chief advisor."

I bowed my head. "My deepest regrets."

Daveen nodded, then asked, "What do you need?"

I smiled and shook my head, pulling the letter I had forged from my pocket. "I don't need something, but I have something that you might be interested in seeing."

The king tilted his head. "What is that?"

I handed him the letter, which he scanned with a frown. Looking up, he said, "I thought Lord Evin worked with the rebels."

I shook my head. "Evin despises the rebels. In his opinion, they are idiots for opposing you."

Daveen looked thoughtful. "I was wrong then. Thank you for delivering this. I will be sure to thank him."

I nodded, bowed, and left.

Early the next morning I was doing the handstand push-ups when Evin slipped into my room. After closing the door behind him, Evin turned and gawked at me. Lowering my feet to the ground and standing, I asked, "What do you need?"

Evin nodded, looking uneasy. "The rebels on my estate are planning to kill me." He handed me a note.

I frowned as I read it. Handing it back, I asked, "What do you want me to do about it? I am not a rebel."

Evin shook his head. "I don't know, Chance. I don't know." He plopped down on the bed, running a hand through his short brown hair. He was quiet for a moment, then looked at me. "What was it that you said about the chess pieces?"

I pulled on a shirt and sat next to him. "The king is the weakest. It can only do so much. Next is the bishop. A useful tool, but it also has many weaknesses. The rook is like the bishop; useful, but is has its weaknesses. The knight is useful with its ability to jump over other pieces, but again, it has its flaws. The queen is essentially a rook and a bishop combined. It has the most maneuverability, but since it is always thought of as the strongest piece, people usually want it gone. And then there are the pawns. There are enough of them that the player can sacrifice some without affecting his or her chances of winning. And if the player gets one to the other side of the board, he or she can change it into a knight, rook, bishop, or queen."

Evin nodded, frowning. "In a kingdom," he said slowly, "the people are the pawns. The queen, knights, and rooks are the army, and the bishops are the advisors and nobility. The king is trapped by the fact that there is only one of him and many more pawns. He can only do so much at one time because he has to keep the people's support. If no one stands by him, he will lose his power and be in danger." Evin's eyes widened. "The people hold the power, not the king. That was what you were telling me the other day, wasn't it?"

I nodded, looking away. "Yes. And the king knows it, which is why he kills everyone who dares to speak out against him." My voice broke as the memory of my parents being burned alive flashed before my eyes, and I squeezed them shut.

"Are you all right?"

I nodded, forcing my emotions back down. "I'm fine." Standing, I walked to the door.

"Chance!" Evin called as I disappeared through the door. He ran to catch up with me. "Chance, wait!"

I stopped and looked at him. "Yes?"

Evin glanced around quickly, then leaned close and muttered, "You can trust me."

"Good to know, but I am not going to tell you anything. At least, not yet."

That night, I went to see the rebels again. After the meeting, I told Job to send Katarina to Evin and another lord in two days, and to botch both assassinations.

Job looked intrigued. "Why?"

I smiled. "So Evin doesn't stick out like a sore thumb. It would look really suspicious if he was the only one who wasn't killed when the assassin was sent after him." Job nodded, and I said, "Go to the place I told you about in four days."

Job smiled. "Will do."

The next morning, I went to see the king. A different pair of guards stood in front of the door and they crossed their spears, scowling. "Who are you?" one demanded.

I eyed him. "I need to see the king."

The guard snorted, saying sarcastically, "Right."

I scowled. "Let me pass."

"No."

The king opened the door and smiled at me. "Chance! Come in, come in."

I followed the king into his room and sat on the chair that he indicated. He sat across from me and smiled. "To what do I owe this pleasure?"

"I know who will be assassinated next."

The king became intent. "Who?"

"Lord Evin and Lord Vost."

The king looked surprised. "Are you sure?"

I nodded. "Those two lords are some of the rebels' most dangerous enemies. The rebels are planning to eliminate them."

"How do you know this?"

"I have a spy within the rebel forces. You can never be too cautious"

"How would I stop them? I do not want to lose more lords."

I shrugged helplessly. "There really isn't much you can do, other than placing guards around them and in their rooms."

The king nodded. "That makes sense."

"One other thing," I said. The king indicated that I should continue. I hesitated, then said, "The rebels might cause riots."

The king's face flushed with rage. "These rebels are like rats. Filthy vermin that go where they aren't supposed to and spread sickness and disease. They spread like wildfire."

I nodded. "I hate what the rebels are doing. They are jeopardizing the peace of your kingdom. I will continue to help you." I smiled slyly. "Exterminate the vermin, so to speak."

Daveen smiled, his fury draining away. "Is there anything else?"

Shaking my head, I stood, but the king held up a hand. I froze, sitting back down. "Yes?"

Daveen's eyes grew distant. "The lord who was assassinated was my chief advisor. You know this." Again, I nodded. The king met my gaze. "I will take a chance and appoint you as my chief advisor. You seem like a good man, one who will do the best thing for the kingdom."

I bowed my head. "Thank you, Sire. I will do everything in my power to avenge those who have died in this revolution, and I will ensure that those who are responsible pay, preferably in blood."

The king smiled. "Thank you, Chance. You may go."

I stood, bowed to the king, and exited, shooting the guards a smug look as I passed them.

Three days later, Evin came to the castle in the fastest coach available. He was deposited in a sick room, where I went to see him. Evin moaned when I entered, clutching his head as he sat on a bed. "It hurts."

I chuckled as I dipped a rag in a bowl of cold water and walked over to his bed after wringing the water from the rag. "Yes, I imagine it does. Here."

Evin took the rag and clasped it to his brow with another moan. "Why did that assassin have to hit me so hard?"

"He was trying to kill you, what did you expect? Luckily, your guards came just in time." I put my hands on his shoulders and pushed him down. "Lay down." He laid down with a groan and pressed the cloth to his forehead again. After glancing around to make sure we were alone, I leaned closer and whispered, "I know who sent the assassin."

Evin's eyes brightened. "Who?"

"Me."

Betrayal filled his expression. "Why would you do that? I thought we were friends!"

I smiled. "For precisely that reason. Now the king thinks you are one of his allies. You should be grateful; those who the king finds inconvenient tend to disappear."

"I will be grateful when there isn't a troll trying to pound its way out of my head," Evin said with a groan.

I laughed, going to the door. Before I exited the room, I said, "You should stay down. The headache will go away eventually, and moving will only make it worse."

Evin's only answer was another moan.

The next day, Evin was able to sit up and move without too much pain, so I escorted him to a spare room. As we were walking down a corridor, the king stepped out of a room in front of us, reading a report. He glanced up, seeing Evin. A broad smile stretched across his face. "Evin! It is so good to see you on your feet again. I regret you got hurt for helping me."

I had made my way behind the king, so I saw Evin's eyes fill with confusion. Before he could say anything, I frantically signaled for silence. Evin frowned, but replied, "It's all right. Whatever I can do to help you is worth a little pain."

Daveen smiled. "That is what I like to hear. Get better soon, all right?" Evin nodded, and the king hurried down the corridor, engrossed in the report once more.

Once he was out of earshot, Evin turned to me. "What was that all about? I hate him, and I would never help him."

I smiled. "I know. The king thinks you are helping him because I stole your seal and forged a letter in your handwriting, then gave it to the king. The letter told him about a rebel, and where he can capture him. I have been telling Daveen about rebel movements too."

Evin's eyes filled with confusion again. "I thought you hated the king. Why are you helping him?"

Laying a finger against my lips, I said, "I do hate the king, but I won't explain right now."

With a scowl, Evin said, "You are a viper, Chance. I hope you know that."

I smiled. "Only to those I don't like. Your new room is the third door on the right." Turning, I walked away, leaving Evin staring after me.

*

Job paced in the dark alley, anxiety making his heart race. He knew the plan, but he also knew that plans could fail easily.

He heard footsteps, and turned to face the sound. The newcomer was carrying a torch, which blinded Job. "Chance? Is that you?"

Something hit him on the back of the head, and everything went dark.

The soldier who had hit Job after sneaking around him while he was blinded frowned at his companion. "Did you hear who he thought we were?"

The other soldier nodded, his expression grim. "Looks like we have been listening to a traitor. Let's take him back and tell the king."

*

Daveen eyed the unconscious man the two soldiers dumped at his feet. "Is this him?"

The oldest one nodded. "Yes. But there is something I think you should know."

Daveen frowned. "What is it?"

"When he heard us coming, he asked if we were Chance, the healer's apprentice. You have been listening to a traitor."

Daveen rubbed his chin, frowning. Shaking his head, Daveen said, "I will need you to bring him to the courtroom tomorrow morning."

The soldiers bowed, picking up the man to take him to the dungeons. Daveen watched them go, still lost in thought.

*

The sound of wood striking wood and metal striking metal rang through the courtyard the next morning as soldiers drilled and trained. Larpsen watched as Evin and I practiced with blunted swords, occasionally calling out advice or insults, depending on the situation.

Evin's sword arm dipped, and Larpsen barked, "Get that up! One mistake like that in a real fight will make you lose your head. Up!"

Evin grimaced, raising the sword once more. His arm was rigid and trembling as he struggled to hold the sword up, and I paused, lowering my practice sword. "Evin, you should do strength training with me. You're too soft."

"Well, thanks for the compliment," Evin growled. His sword dipped again.

I smiled, tossing the practice sword to the side. "You can't hold your blade. You wouldn't last very long." I went over to a bucket of water a few feet away and scrubbed the sweat off of my torso before donning my shirt. Bowing to Larpsen, I said, "Thank you for the lesson. I think Evin has had enough for one day."

Larpsen nodded. "I think so too." He walked away.

Evin glared at me after washing and putting his shirt on. "'Too soft'?"

I nodded, smiling. "Yep. Lords are getting softer these days. You need to get stronger, or you won't be able to hold your own against an opponent."

A servant hurried up to me. "The king requires your presence immediately."

I nodded and waved goodbye to Evin before following the servant. She led me to the castle's courtroom, which was set up like the audience room but smaller, where she bowed and indicated that I should go in. When I entered, the king smiled and said, "Good to see that you have joined us, Chance."

I glanced around the room. The king stood to my left, judges to my right, and two guards were holding the arms of a tall, muscular man. I kept my face blank as I met Job's eyes, then turned to the king. "Who is this?"

Daveen's smile faded a little. "You don't know?"

"Of course not." I turned to go.

Job strained against the hands holding him, his face twisted with fury. "You traitor! You've been here all along, haven't you? We trusted you!"

I looked at him as if he was something I had just scraped off the bottom of my shoe. "I have never seen you before in my life." Without sparing Job another glance, I walked out of the room.

Out in the hall, Evin fell into step beside me. "What did he want?"

"He wanted to see if I could identify a man that the guards captured."

Evin's eyes filled with curiosity. "Did you?"

I snorted. "Of course not. I have never seen the man, and I don't know why the king thought I knew him."

*

The little town was bustling with activity. Screams and the sound of breaking glass filled the smoky air. More than one of the villagers fell to a soldier's blow, never to rise again. Katarina watched the chaos she had started from a dark alley, her face set in grim lines. The deaths were regrettable, but necessary.

After watching the fighting for a few more minutes, Katarina turned and exited the town. It would take several weeks to travel to all of the different towns Max had named. Once she had started riots in all of them, she could go home to her father.

*

Adam hurried up to me. "Master Larpsen requires you."

I nodded. "Take me to him."

Adam led me to a separate room, where Larpsen tended to a severely wounded man from one of the riots. I studied the man's torn stomach and the deep cuts on his arms and legs before grabbing a cloth and pressing it to the man's stomach. Larpsen scowled, trying to stop the bleeding. "The rebels struck again, causing riots. He was the only survivor. I don't know if I can save him."

The man's eyes opened wide as he regained consciousness, and he screamed. Larpsen's scowl deepened. "Give him that sleeping potion."

I wiped the blood off my hands and glanced around, spotting the cup on a table. After grabbing it, I knelt beside the man and had him swallow the potion. After a few minutes, his eyes closed, and the tension left him. "Will you be able to save him?" I asked.

Larpsen growled in frustration as the man's breath left him in a long sigh. His shoulders slumped, and he exhaled. "That answers your question. I will go tell the king."

After he left, I studied the man's peaceful features and whispered, "I'm sorry."

A few weeks later, Evin and I were sword fighting when a servant hurried up to us. "The king requires both of you."

We nodded, put away our swords, and pulled on our shirts before following the servant to the audience chamber. Evin sat with the lords, and I sat by Larpsen.

The lords sat in their usual places. The king had a row of judges to his right, and a lone man stood in the center of the room. The look in Job's eyes could have melted steel, and he challenged the king with his bold stare. Even though he was chained, bearded and dirty from several weeks in jail, he held himself proudly. Glancing at me, his eyes filled with hatred. I smiled slightly.

Daveen stood, and a hush fell over the assembled lords. The king raised his hands, his deep voice booming in the large room. "Today, we rid ourselves of a criminal. Today, a traitor will meet justice!" The lords roared their approval. Once the noise died down, the king looked down at Job. "What have you to say for yourself?"

Job raised his chin. "I have only done what I think is best for my people. My people, who are slaughtered and raped and stolen from when they can barely stay alive. Their sweat, blood, and tears have made the nobles fat. What have I to say for myself?" Shaking his head, Job said, "You had better ask yourself that question. What have you to say for yourself, my king? My tormentor? You may kill me, and that may stop the rebels for a short time, but as long as your tyranny dominates others, they will do their best to break free. Another will be chosen to lead after I am gone. It will never stop." Job spat off to the side, glaring at the king. "I hope you burn for eternity."

The king smiled, as if amused by Job's fearlessness. Turning to the judges beside him, the king asked, "What is your verdict?"

The judges put their heads together for a moment, then one stood. "We find this man guilty of plotting against the throne and seeking to take the king's life. We sentence him to death by burning at the stake in two days' time, after he has been tortured."

Guards came and took Job's arms to lead him away. He once again glanced at me, but this time, he smiled. I nodded slightly in acknowledgement.

I sat in another of the rebel meetings, listening to their panicked conversation after I had told them that Job was going to be tortured for information, then executed. Fear filled every voice.

Randall's eyes darted. "Surely we are doomed. Our location will be tortured from him. None of us will be safe."

Katarina snorted, standing. "Shut it, Randall. My father would rather die than give the king information."

"He may have to do that," an old man muttered.

Katarina nodded. Her single eye found me, and she said, "Everyone but Max, go outside." There were grumbles, but they complied, and I stood to face Katarina. She studied me, drawing a knife. Pointing it at me, she said, "Off with the mask."

"Why?"

Katarina snorted. "Because I don't trust you. I want to know who I am talking to, and I don't think you are really helping us. Once you joined us, there have been more failed missions, and now my father has been captured. Off with it."

I sighed, pulling off the mask. "Happy?"

Katarina's eye widened, filling with betrayal. "Traitor!" She drew back her arm and hurled her knife at me.

I threw myself to the side the instant before she threw the knife, so it only nicked my ear. Glaring at Katarina, I pulled on my mask and exited the house.

I never saw the tears streaming down Katarina's face.
Chapter Eight

That night, I climbed onto the roof. The wind pressed my clothes to my body, and I turned to see dark storm clouds blotting out the stars. Lightning danced among the clouds, marking the rhythm to a deadly dance. I didn't have to wait long.

There was a soft scraping sound behind me, and I threw myself to the side. A knife flew passed me and hit the roof tiles, spinning away. "Hello, Katarina," I said as I turned.

Katarina's lips twisted into a snarl, and she brandished another knife. "We trusted you," she growled, stalking closer. _"I_ trusted you! And now my father is going to die. What else did you tell the king?"

I shook my head. "I haven't told him anything other than information about your father and some of the rebels' movements."

The wind blew harder, making Katarina's dark hair swirl around her. Her single eye filled with hatred and pain, and she lunged at me with the knife. "Traitor! Evil, scum-sucking pig!"

I grabbed the arm that was holding the knife and thrust her away from me. Katarina growled, crouching, as the first raindrops started to fall. Again, she lunged at me, but I grabbed her hand, pulled the knife out of her grip, and tossed it off the roof. "Stop this, Katarina," I said quietly. Rain started falling in a torrential downpour.

Her voice broke as she shouted, "Why should I? You're a backstabbing traitor, and deserve to die!"

She once again lunged at me, her fingers curled into claws. The rain made the roof slippery, however, and she stumbled. I caught her arm before she went over the edge and pulled her to safety. Katarina's clothes were soaked, and she was shivering violently.

"You need to get out of the rain!" I shouted, and pulled her to the edge of the roof. "Can you climb into my window?"

Katarina nodded, and I lowered her over the roof. I waited until she was in before following.

Katarina was sitting on the floor, her knees drawn up to her chest. I pulled a blanket off the bed and draped it over her shivering frame. "You need to get out of those wet clothes."

Katarina glared at me. "I am not undressing. And I don't want the help of a traitor."

I shrugged. "Fine. Don't blame me if you get a fever."

There was a knock on the door, and I opened it to see Evin. "Come in."

Evin frowned, walking into the room. "Why are you wet?" He saw Katarina, and his eyes widened. "Who's that?"

I closed my door. "Evin, I would like you to meet Katarina, daughter of the rebel leader."

Evin's eyes widened. "You said that you weren't a rebel. You lied."

"No, I didn't lie. I am not a rebel; I am the snake in the garden." I smiled. "You don't see it until it is too late."

Evin looked bewildered, and glanced first at me, then at Katarina. "Is someone going to explain to me what is going on?"

"It's not that hard to figure out," Katarina growled. "Only an idiot wouldn't be able to see that he is a traitor."

Poor Evin only looked more confused. "An idiot?" He glared at Katarina. "I am not an idiot! I don't know what is going on!"

Katarina snickered. "Could've fooled me."

Before the argument escalated further, I said, "Perhaps I should start at the beginning."

"Please do," Katarina and Evin said at the same time, then glared at each other.

I smiled at them, shaking my head. "If you two are finished..."

Evin sighed. "Sorry. Go ahead."

"My name is Max. My family was accused of treason four years ago, and we were rounded up with all of the other suspected traitors to be executed. I was supposed to be burned at the stake. A guard helped me to escape." I touched my cheek, where the burning tar had fallen. "I was burned quite badly, but I survived. I spent four years learning how to fight, then I was able to get this position. I have been learning what the king intends to do, and telling the rebels so they can be more effective."

Evin's eyes were riveted to the scars that weren't covered by my clothes. He looked sick as he met my gaze. "I'm sorry."

I shrugged and continued with my plans.

*

"His name is Max. He was burnt when you executed the rebels four years ago. A soldier helped him escape."

"Very good. Anything else?"

"He's working with the rebels."

There was a snort. "I already knew that."

"His sister is Ella, the lady-in-waiting."

"Really? That is very...fortunate."

"I don't have anything else."

"Very well. You may go."

*

Both Katarina and Evin looked stunned by the time I fell silent. Evin shook his head. "It is a dangerous game you are playing, Chance."

I smiled. "I already told you that my name is Max, not Chance."

Evin rolled his eyes. "Whatever. What you are doing is really dangerous."

"I know. The king made an enemy of me, however, and I am going to take him down." Someone knocked on the door, and I opened it to see Adam.

He shuffled his feet. "Would you like a bath now?"

I nodded. "Yes, I would." Adam bowed and walked away, and I shut the door before turning to Katarina and Evin.

Katarina frowned. "You're going to bathe with us in here?"

I snorted. "Of course not. The bath is for you." Katarina's eye narrowed. "You are freezing," I said to forestall the angry response.

Katarina looked away. "I'll live."

"I'm sure you will, but why not be comfortable while you are surviving?"

Katarina glared at me, and I smiled.

Evin and I walked the halls while Katarina bathed. Occasionally, we would pass servants, despite the late hour. Evin watched the fearful way they walked with a frown. "Something's wrong."

I shrugged. "Not surprising. Nearly everything is wrong in this wretched castle."

Evin considered this, then nodded. After a moment, he asked, "How are you going to get Job out? He's going to be executed in two days' time."

"I know. I don't really have a plan, at the moment. I was hoping Katarina would help me with that part."

Evin chuckled. "I am sure she would love to."

Several soldiers stepped out of the door in front of us. I stopped and waited for them to pass. Then the king stepped out in front of the soldiers, towing a cringing Adam by the ear. Daveen stared at me and Evin. "How unusual for us to meet at this late hour," he said.

Something in his tone made me uneasy. "Do you want us to go to our rooms?"

Daveen smiled like the cat who had just swallowed the canary. "No, no. Don't bother, Chance. Or should I say Max?"

I frowned. "Who's Max?"

The king shook his head. "You can't fool me. I have an excellent source of information." He grabbed Adam's arm and thrust him forward. "He is very loyal."

Adam stumbled forward, falling to his knees in front of me. His eyes were full of tears. "I'm sorry, Max. So very sorry," he whispered.

I frowned, confused. At that instant, the soldiers rushed forward and grabbed me, Evin, and Adam.

*

Katarina pulled on some of Max's clothes after she got out of the tub. Hers were still lying in a wet puddle on the ground. She braided her long hair, then sat on the bed and waited.

After fifteen minutes, Katarina frowned. They should have been back by now. She walked to the door and pressed her ear to the keyhole. Shouts echoed from down the corridor, and Katarina sighed. "Leave it to the men to screw things up," she murmured. "It is always the girl who has to clean up the mess."

Straightening, Katarina walked over to the wardrobe and pulled out a cloak. After putting it on, she checked that her knives were in the appropriate places, scowling when she felt the two empty sheaths.

Shaking her head, Katarina walked over to the window and opened it. It was still raining. "So much for getting warm," she muttered, then climbed onto the roof. She glanced around before she started running.

*

"I'm so sorry," Adam said. "I had no choice."

I was scowling at Adam, angry at his betrayal. After a brief struggle, we were dragged to the dungeons and dumped in the cell with Job.

Job tilted his head. "So the escape plan didn't go as planned?"

"No." I glared at Adam. "There was a complication we didn't know about."

"Go easy on him, Max," Evin said, laying a hand on my arm. "He's just a kid."

"The king made me," Adam whispered. "He said that if I didn't, he would hurt my sister. I had no choice."

I sighed, bowing my head. After a moment, I made my decision. "All right. I forgive you. Now we need to find a way to get out of here. Any ideas?"

Job looked up at me, his teeth flashing white in the gloom as he smiled. "Well, we don't have many options. I have already searched the cell. There is nothing that we can use, other than that pile of bones." He jerked a thumb at a shadowy corner where the bones lay.

Evin pulled a brooch pin from his shirt. "Can this be of any use?"

I took the pin, turning it over in my hands, then glanced at the wooden door with the barred window. Turning to Adam, I asked, "Can you fit your arm through those bars?"

Adam's face brightened, and he leapt up. His thin arm fit through easily, and he beamed at me. "Yep!"

"Now, can you reach the lock?" Adam's face twisted with concentration as he pushed his arm further through. He nodded, and I asked, "Do you know how to pick a lock?" Adam shook his head, and I sighed. Twisting the brooch pin into the shape I needed, I held it out to Adam. "Don't drop it. Now, if you want to pick a lock, you need to put this into it and feel for the tumblers inside." Adam nodded as I explained how to pick a lock.

Adam took the crude lock pick and thrust his arm through the bars again. We all held our breaths as he fiddled with the lock. Finally, there was a click followed by Adam's cry of triumph. "Got it!"

I smiled at him as he gave me the twisted brooch pin. "Good job." I pocketed the make-shift lock pick and opened the door. We all filtered out and ran down the dark corridors, the promise of freedom luring us on.

Two guards stepped out in front of us, and we slid to a stop.

"Uh oh," Evin muttered.

The guards gaped at us, then both drew their swords with a faint hiss of steel on steel. I glanced at the people around me and came to a decision. After taking a deep breath, I charged the guards and knocked them down. "Run!" I yelled as the guards tried to clamber to their feet, hampered by their swords and armor.

Job and Adam, after a slight hesitation, ran on down the corridor. Evin stopped at my side, starting to draw his sword, which he had found outside the cell. I gave him a push that sent him staggering. "Run!"

"I'm not leaving you!" Evin shouted back. "I can help!"

I stepped closer to him and grabbed a fistful of his shirt. Looking into his eyes, I said, "I am not letting you die with me. I know that you aren't a coward, and I know you want to help me. But I don't matter; the rebels do. You need to lead them; help them. Now go!"

I pushed him again, and he started running. The two guards who I had knocked down were swinging their swords at me as I turned, and I had to drop flat to avoid them. One of the soldiers raised a boot to stomp on my head, but I rolled to the side and into a crouch.

Once again, they attacked, both lunging with their swords. I jumped over the deadly points and kicked them down. The blades clattered to the ground, ripped from the guards' grasp, but the momentary contact allowed me to spring off them and perform a graceful flip over the two guards. I rolled when I landed, then jumped up to run down the corridor.

Behind me, I heard the guards' shouts and their heavy boots tramping after me. Capture, I knew, was just around the corner, so I wasn't surprised when I came to the exit. Dozens of soldiers blocked it, all with naked blades and grim expressions.

I slowed to a stop, scanning the room. None of my friends were in it, and I breathed a sigh of relief. Now I could only hope that they made it away from the castle as well.

Several of the grim-faced soldiers came at me. My eyes narrowed as I glanced at them, then I dove into a forward roll. I bounced up next to the guard closest to me, my hands flashing towards his exposed neck. He dropped his sword with a cough as I jabbed him in the throat, and I scooped it up.

A few more guards came at me. Small cuts appeared on my arms and chest as I retreated from the onslaught, then a sword slipped past my guard and slashed me across the ribs.

I dropped the sword with a cry of pain, clutching the wound. Instantly, I was surrounded by a ring of swords aimed at my throat. As my arms were being secured behind my back, I thought I glimpsed Katarina up on the ceiling beams.
Chapter Nine

I was dragged before the king and flung at his feet. He kicked me, and I struggled onto my knees as I caught my breath. I refused to look up at him, so a guard grabbed my hair and pulled my head back. Daveen sneered at me. "How mighty are the fallen, eh?" He turned and beckoned, and my sister walked forward, biting her lip. Disgust filled me as the king placed his arm around her shoulders in a fatherly gesture. "Is there anything you would like to say to your sister, Max?"

"She's not my sister," I said quietly. "Not anymore."

Ella flinched, tears glimmering in her eyes. The soldier behind me released my hair, and I looked away.

*

Katarina stood, and the quiet murmur of voices stopped. "Max has been captured." Several of the people in the room groaned. "He hid his identity from us because he was posing as Chance, the healer's apprentice."

Randall went white, his eyes darting. "How do you know we can trust him?"

"We can trust him," Katarina snapped. "He got captured so we could escape. Now we need to repay the favor."

Wesson, an old man with intelligent brown eyes, snorted. "How do you propose we do that? The castle is a fortress, the dungeons even more so. We won't be able to rescue him."

Katarina shook her head. "Nothing is impossible. There must be a way."

Suddenly, the door flew open and the king's healer strode in. Everyone in the room gaped at the tall man. He threw back the hood on his cloak and raised his chin. "My name is Larpsen. I am a spy for enemies of the king. I know how we can get Max out of the castle."

*

The king laughed, his hand clamping onto my sister's shoulder. He fluttered his fingers at the guards, who then hauled me to my feet and to the dungeons. Ella and the king followed, Ella's weeping mixing with the king's laughter.

In the dungeons, I was forced into a room that had a hooded man and a table. A fireplace in one corner had several hot fire pokers, and there was another table with several instruments I recognized. Torture.

I didn't put up a fight as I was gagged and chained to the table. The king released my sister and stepped closer to rip off my shirt. Ella's eyes went wide as she raised a trembling hand to her mouth. The hooded man bowed to Daveen, asking, "What do you want me to do with him, Sire?"

Daveen shrugged, turning to go. "Break him."

The hooded man laughed, pulling on a glove before picking up a fire poker. He held it over my chest, turning his head to address the frozen Ella. "You should stay, dear. This is going to be fascinating."

Ella looked like she was going to vomit. The torturer touched the red hot metal to my chest with an expectant chuckle. I screamed into the gag, my hands clenching. The torturer removed the metal, then put it back on.

*

Ella stared at Max, horror clogging her throat. Tears ran down her cheeks as she watched her younger brother being burned. The third time the torturer touched the burning metal to Max's skin, she turned and ran out of the room.

Ella ran to the queen's room and entered without knocking. Jane turned, concern shining in her eyes. She wrapped her arms around Ella as fresh tears coursed down her cheeks. "He's being tortured," she said in a broken whisper. "He's going to be executed."

Jane stroked her hair. "Your brother is a criminal. He is not the same person you once knew."

The king entered the room and saw the weeping Ella. He came and laid a comforting hand on her arm. "He would have killed us, Ella," he said in a gentle voice. "He would have killed _you._ You saw the look in his eyes. I am afraid that his mind snapped when he was supposed to be executed the first time. He is dangerous, and must be stopped.

Ella sniffed, wiping the tears from her cheeks. Jane held Ella's hands, looking at the king. Daveen nodded, and Jane smiled at the young woman. "Ella, you know that Daveen and I cannot have children, and Daveen has no heirs. We would like to name you as our heir. We have the paperwork, and will be announcing it tomorrow."

Ella's jaw dropped, her brother's suffering forgotten in the shock of this new announcement. "Really? I—I would be honored."

Daveen nodded, pleased. He had just acquired another pawn.

*

There was a soft touch on my shoulder a few hours after I was deposited in a dark room, and a familiar voice said, "Max."

I opened my eyes, squinting in the light from a lamp Evin held. Katarina smiled in relief, reaching forward to remove the gag that cut into my mouth. Evin placed the lamp on the floor and undid the ropes on my wrists before helping me sit up. I tried unsuccessfully to hide a groan, and Evin looked concerned. "Are you all right?"

"No." My voice was hoarse from screaming. I looked at the burns on my chest. "No, I am definitely not all right. What are you two doing here?"

Katarina smiled, a dangerous light entering her eye. "We are going to bust you out."

I raised a brow. "And how do you propose to do that?"

Evin grinned, twirling a set of keys around his finger. "The ah...torturer is in for a long nap, and Job has taken his place. He is going to get you out." He glanced at Katarina, who nodded. "The king has requested another 'therapy session', as he calls it. He will be coming down any minute now."

The door opened, and a hooded man came in. "It's time," Job said. "The king has just arrived."

I nodded and stood, barely stifling another groan. Katarina and Evin stood as well, and Katarina shot me a tight smile. "Good luck."

Job grabbed my arm, pulling me out the door and down a corridor to the torture room. The king and my sister stood in it, and fresh hatred coursed through me as I saw the unpleasant smirk on Daveen's face. That smirk quickly turned into a scowl. "Why isn't he bound?"

Job didn't answer, releasing me and turning to the fire instead. Daveen's brows drew together and he opened his mouth, but I punched him before he could say anything. He fell back against the wall, raising a hand to finger his split lip. Ella shrieked, her eyes going wide as she clamped a hand over her mouth.

Ignoring her, I grabbed Daveen's expensive silk shirt and pulled him to his feet. As I cocked my fist for another strike, I met the king's terrified gaze. "This," I said quietly, "is for my parents." The blow landed on Daveen's jaw, snapping his head back. I released him and he sagged, semiconscious, to his knees.

My kick landed on his abdomen, making him double up with a grunt. Before he could recover, I jerked my knee up. Daveen's nose broke with a dull crunch, and more blood ran down his face. As I kicked Daveen again, Job quietly slipped out, leaving me alone with my sister and the king.

After I kicked the king a few more times, Ella ran forward and placed herself in front of him. Tears were running down her face. "Stop it, Max."

I laughed. "Why should I?" Pointing at the cowering king, I asked, "Would he have stopped murdering those who opposed him? Would he have stopped torturing me? No. He is getting what he deserves."

Ella shook her head. "No, he isn't. Daveen hasn't murdered; the executions were of dangerously unstable people. People like you."

I stared at her, speechless. When I finally found my voice, it was filled with disbelief. "You actually believe that? Ella, I watched a _baby_ be burned alive. That is murder."

Ella's eyes narrowed. She pointed at the door, saying vehemently, "Get out. Now."

I glanced at the king one more time, then exited the room. Job was waiting outside, and handed me a shirt. I took it and pulled it on, wincing as it rubbed against the burns on my chest. "Let's go," I said, marching off down the corridor.

Job matched my long strides, glancing at me. "What about your sister?"

"She isn't my sister."

*

Ella waited until the door had closed behind Max before turning to Daveen. He smiled weakly at her, his nose smashed flat. "Thank you, Ella. You will be a good queen someday."

Ella gently touched the bruise that was forming on his jaw. "I can't believe he did this to you."

Daveen shook his head. "Your brother isn't the same person you once knew. He is dangerous, and must be stopped at all costs.

A chill ran down Ella's spine as she recalled the burning hatred in Max's eyes, and she nodded in silent agreement.

*

After Job had escorted Max out, Katarina and Evin exited the castle. Evin turned to look back at it. "Are they going to be all right?"

Katarina nodded. "Father will get him out. You go on without me. I have something that I need to do." Evin looked puzzled, but nodded and walked to the stables to fetch horses. Katarina located the king's and queen's room before going to the castle wall. She rubbed her fingers, then started climbing.

It was a grueling climb, and by the time Katarina made it to the room's balcony, she was shaking and her forehead was sheened with sweat.

"Note to self," she muttered. "Don't climb that ever again." She glanced to the west, where the sunlight was fading rapidly, before opening the balcony doors and walking into the room. No one was in it, so she hid behind the heavy curtains.

All light had faded from the sky by the time Daveen, Jane, and Max's sister entered the room with a lamp. Katarina smiled as she saw the alterations Max had made to the king's previously handsome face. Jane helped him to the bed before sitting by him and stroking his brow. Max's sister sat on a chair and fiddled with her jewelry.

Judging that the time was right, Katarina slipped a knife from its sheath and stepped from behind the curtain. Silently, she crossed the room to where the king lay. The sister was the first to see her, and she cried out in alarm. Jane turned just as Katarina reached the bed, her eyes growing wide.

Daveen's expression filled with horror as Katarina stabbed him, then his breath left him in a sigh as the knife pierced his heart. Both Jane and Max's sister screamed as Katarina retrieved her knife and slammed it back into its sheath. She locked gazes with Max's sister for a split second, then she sprinted for the balcony doors. After throwing them open, she jumped and caught the edge of the roof to pull herself up. As she started running along the roof, the enraged shouts of guards rose into the air behind her.

Mission completed successfully.

*

"The king?" I asked as Katarina stopped her horse next to mine.

"Dead."

"Good." I turned my head to look at the hated castle. "The royal line has ended, for the king had no heirs. It is almost finished."

Job grinned savagely. "Freedom for all is within our reach."

Evin nodded. "Once you get rid of the rest of the lords, it will be relatively easy to install a new government."

"Nothing is that simple," Katarina said. "But we are going in the right direction." She spurred her horse forward, quickly disappearing among the trees, her father and Adam following her.

Evin and I gazed at the castle for a moment longer. "Are you sure you don't want to take your sister?" Evin asked.

"Yes." I turned my horse and followed Katarina, leaving Evin frowning after me.

We rode into the town, where Job stopped to pick up some things from a house. I watched the road to the castle, certain that someone was following us.

Sure enough, a dark shadow atop a ghostly white horse detached itself from the trees. I frowned, recognizing Larpsen's horse. As he drew closer, I pulled my knife from its sheath. "What are you doing here?"

Katarina spurred her horse closer. "Don't worry, Max. He is the one who came up with the plan to get you out of the castle. He is on our side."

I hesitated, then sheathed the knife. "Why are you helping us?"

"He is a spy for another rebel group," Katarina said.

Larpsen shot her an amused glance. "That is not entirely correct. I am a spy, but I never said I was a spy for rebels."

"Who do you spy for, then?" I asked, once again grabbing my knife.

Larpsen smiled, and his voice filled with the thick brogue used in the country to the north. "For the king of Neander."

I stared at him for a moment, then shook my head, chuckling. "Well, I have to hand it to you. You are a really good actor."

Larpsen bowed, smiling. "Thank you. I have been spying on you, and I have been telling my king. He would like to meet you."

Job exited the house with a bundle in his arms, starting with surprise as he saw Larpsen. "What is he doing here?"

"Taking you to my king," Larpsen said. "Come."

As we rode north, I asked, "He's here?"

Larpsen glanced at me. "Yes. Our country is surrounded by nearly impenetrable mountains. How else could he direct his spies when messages can't reach them?"

"But why would he do that?"

Larpsen guided his horse around some trees, then said, "He wants this country to change. Too long has it been ruled by corrupt people."

I snorted. "You can say that again." After a quarter of an hour, I spotted a fire through the trees, and asked, "Is that it?"

Larpsen nodded. "That's my king's camp."

When we rode into the camp, men and women looked up, reaching for their weapons before spotting Larpsen. Larpsen dismounted, handing the reins of his horse to a young boy before going and shaking the hand of a big bear of a man who was standing by the fire.

Larpsen beckoned to me, so I dismounted and walked to his side. Larpsen smiled at me before turning to face the man again. "Here he is, Sire."

The king rolled his eyes, smiling slightly. "I thought I told you not to call me that. It makes me feel old." Before Larpsen could reply, the king turned to me and held out his hand. "Welcome, Max. I am Nikola."

I shook hands, quite surprised to find the king's hand callused from hard work. "Pleased to meet you, Sire."

Nikola shot an accusing glare at Larpsen. "Now look at what you have him doing."

Larpsen feigned an innocent expression. "It is your title, is it not?"

Nikola's eyes narrowed. I stepped back, slightly alarmed and extremely confused when Nikola lunged at Larpsen, pulling him into a headlock. Even though Larpsen was a strong man, he was dwarfed by Nikola, so he could do nothing in the giant's grip.

Nikola noticed my expression and burst out laughing, releasing Larpsen. Larpsen smiled slightly, tugging his tunic straight. "It's all right, Max," Larpsen said. "Nikola and I are brothers."

I shot him a narrow-eyed look. "You are just full of surprises, aren't you?

Larpsen shrugged, trying to look innocent. Nikola turned to face Katarina, Job, and Adam, saying, "You can all find a tent to share with someone. No one will mind. We will pack up camp tomorrow, and journey to my country."

I frowned. "Why are you leaving?"

Nikola shot me a grim smile. "To plan a war."
Chapter Ten

A week later, we arrived in Nikola's city weary and saddle-sore. The inhabitants of the city cheered when they saw us, and Nikola smiled. Dismounting, he walked over to the people and started talking to them. A small boy tugged at his pant leg, and Nikola dropped to one knee to place a hand on the boy's shoulder. He said something, then gave a few coins to the boy before standing.

I realized my mouth was open and closed it. I automatically knew that if Daveen were alive, he would spit on the people, and probably have them gutted on the spot. Larpsen stopped his horse beside mine, glancing at me. "You will find that this country is different from yours."

"I'll say," I said, watching the king. Nikola treated everyone around him with respect, which was a night and day difference from Daveen. "I think I will like it here," I said to Larpsen.

"I think so too," Katarina said behind us, Job and Adam echoing her.

When Nikola finished talking to the people, he mounted and led us to the center of the city, where a slightly larger house than the others we had passed sat in an immaculate yard. Nikola led us down a pathway that ended at a small barn. We dismounted and brought the horses inside, where Nikola told Larpsen to take everyone inside.

I stayed in the barn with Nikola, watching the king. With efficiency born out of years of practice, Nikola quickly stripped off the horses' tack and put it away, then started brushing them. After watching him for a moment, I grabbed a spare brush and joined him.

"You are probably wondering why I am doing this," Nikola said after a moment of silence.

"That thought did cross my mind."

"I believe a king should serve his people, not exalt himself. We are all humans with the freedom to choose; why should one be over the other?"

"If you believe that," I said, "why are you king?"

Nikola paused to work some mud out of the horse's mane, then said, "There are many people who want change, but they aren't in a position to do anything. I am, and I try to help my people in any way I can." He met my gaze over the horse's back. "I have made it so that everyone is the leader; I am just a figurehead. Everyone gets an equal say in the government, and they are listened to when they have a complaint."

"That doesn't sound too efficient."

Nikola shrugged. "Maybe not, but it works. My people are happy, and that is good enough for me." We finished the rest of the horses in silence, then I followed Nikola as he went inside the house.

I sat next to the others in Nikola's study, while he and Larpsen stood in front of us. "Your government is still corrupt," Nikola said. "Even though the king is gone, the lords and advisors still remain." He sighed, and his voice filled with sorrow. "The only way we can get a new government is to destroy the old once and for all."

"Our people have been answering the call to arms," Larpsen said. "We will be ready to attack in two weeks. We ask for your help."

Job glanced at Katarina, then looked back at the king. "My daughter and I will help." Job smiled.

"I'm in," I said. "The rest of the rebels will help too."

Later that night, Adam came to the room Nikola had assigned me, his expression worried. "Can I talk to you?"

I nodded. "What is wrong?"

Adam bit his lip. "My sister is still at the castle."

"I will tell Nikola." Smiling at him, I said, "She will be all right."

Adam looked unconvinced, but nodded anyway.

*

Her back was ramrod straight and her expression was cold and set as a priest placed the heavy gold crown on her head. Bejeweled fingers were wrapped tightly around a golden scepter, and a red silk gown clad her slender form. As Ella rose from the throne, the priest declared in ringing tones, "All hail your new queen!"

A ripple ran through the crowd of nobles as they went down on one knee. Ella looked out over her new subjects, then said, "I will not rest until the blood of those who are responsible for the death of the king has mingled with the earth." A roar rose from the listening nobles.

Within the crowd, Evin's heart filled with horror. "You should have taken her with you, Max." It was no more than a whisper, but saying it out loud confirmed Evin's deepest fears. The battle was not nearly finished; it was only just beginning.

***
About the Author

H.M. Van Fleet has had a fascination with reading and with books all her life. She wanted to be a veterinarian as a child, but after a traumatizing experience, decided to be an artist. This decision led to her realizing she couldn't draw. At age twelve, she realized she could paint pictures with words instead of with a brush and wrote three books by the age of fourteen. She currently resides in Utah with her husband and continues to write. _Healer's Apprentice_ is the first book she has published.
Preview of the Sequel

I rushed to the queen's side after my coronation, tears brimming in my eyes. Jane was fragile and pale. Her brow was dewed with sweat, her eyes sunken and cheeks hollow. She breathed in laborious gasps, barely clinging to life.

"Jane," I whispered, my heart breaking.

The former queen's eyes opened, and she smiled weakly at me. "Hello dear."

I swung to face the doctors who lurked by the walls. "What is wrong with her?"

The eldest doctor stepped forward, bowing his head. "She is dying, your Majesty."

"Why? Don't make me drag it out of you bit by bit, doctor. I am not that patient."

He cleared his throat uncomfortably. "When her husband died, she lost the will to live. There is nothing we can do for her."

I bit my lip, looking down at Jane again. Jane's eyes opened, and she whispered, "Don't weep for me, dear. I go to join Daveen."

Her eyes closed again, and I bowed my head, tears running down my cheeks. Jane's breathing developed a nasty rattle, then stopped. A roaring sound filled my ears, and I dimly heard the doctor announce, "The former queen is dead."

I swayed as the realization that I was suddenly on my own hit me, making me feel slightly ill. "Plan another funeral," I whispered. "The kingdom will mourn again." I rose to my feet and walked out of the room, not noticing the hasty bows of the room's occupants.

Four magnificent white horses pulled a gold plated carriage down the rose covered road. Solemn people dressed in mourning clothes lined the street, paying their last respects to the former queen. I rode behind the carriage as it made its way to the ancient burial place of the royal family. When it reached the low mound, where a dark hole led down into the crypt, servants came forward.

I stopped and dismounted as servants unloaded the coffin to carry it into the crypt. As the coffin passed me, I dropped the blood red rose I carried onto it. The inky blackness within the crypt soon swallowed the casket, and my shoulders slumped as fresh tears ran down my cheeks. I was on my own.

A strong arm slid around my shoulders, holding me up when I would have fallen. I leaned on my unknown supporter as sobs tore through me. His breath fanned my cheek as he leaned close and murmured, "Cry, my queen."

His voice was slightly accented, but comforting, and his words made fresh tears stream down my cheeks. "Who are you?"

"My name is Stephen. I am the son of Neander's ambassador."

I sniffed, my heart growing leaden as the servants returned and sealed the crypt. Pulling free from Stephen's arm, I turned to face him, my breath catching in surprise. Stephen had dark brown hair, high cheekbones, and twinkling hazel eyes. There was none of the brutish features the people of Neander were said to possess. "You don't look like you are from Neander."

Stephen chuckled, looking embarrassed. "I don't. My mother is from this country. I was born here, actually, and learned the accent from my father." His expression became pensive. "I am sorry to hear about the king and queen. Were you close?"

I nodded. "They treated me as their daughter for over four years, since my parents were executed." Wiping my tears away, I smiled at him. "It was nice meeting you, Stephen."

He bowed. "And you, Majesty."

"Ella."

With a smile, he said, "Ella. A beautiful name for a beautiful young woman." Again, he bowed, then walked away.

I watched him go, then turned to the crypt and murmured goodbye one last time before mounting my horse and riding it back to the castle. Once in the castle, I was confronted by an elderly advisor. Feeling very tired, I said, "Unless this requires my attention, go away."

The man gulped, looking very nervous. "I am sorry, Majesty. I...I have terrible news."

"For Pete's sake man, spit it out!"

The man's nervousness increased, beaded sweat appearing on his brow. "The king of Neander has declared war."

