 
Hidden Secrets

~The Haunting~

Peter Solomon

Smashwords Edition

Copyright 2015, Peter Solomon

License Notes:

This eBook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This eBook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient.

If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy.

Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

Chapter 1

Charleston, South Carolina

"I don't know honey, sure looks like a lot of work." Walking slowly through the ruble, looking at all the fine cracks in the plaster, Collin replies, "Ok, I guess you can just go back to your little kitchen, and remain dreaming. However, I see a warm, comfortable home away from home here for all of the guest that will return every time they visit our beautiful city." Looking up the side staircase, Linda lets out a soft sigh, "Do you really think so? I do love it. And the location couldn't be better." "Only four city blocks away, you have the Slave Market and the Daughters of the Confederacy Building. Most everyone that visits Charleston spends time there." He tells her.

Looking out the tall wooden, triple sash window, Collin tells her, "Come here, look at this." Walking over to him, she wonders what he is looking at, but as she looks for herself, she smiles, "They come down here?" "I suppose so. I didn't know this street was on their guided tour." He whispers, as if somehow he was trying not to startle the horses. "They stopped." She whispered back. "He's telling them the history of this house, just look at the amazement in their eyes." The two of them quietly watching the fascination in the eyes of the tourist there in that small two horse drawn carriage, seemed to bring back warm memories of their own. Of how, just a few short years ago, they too fell in love with this old historic town, riding in a carriage very similar to this one. Once their tour reached the Battery, they were sold. That was the moment they both knew Charleston was where they would live out the remainder of their lives. To listen so closely to the guide, retelling all that took place here, looking hard to see the small Fort out in the harbor, yes, this is when they were both so sold.

To most middle age couples, uprooting everything you have worked so hard for and making such a move would only be a dream. But these two were not mere dreamers. They had discovered if you want to achieve your dreams, sometimes you have to make tough choices. However, they always credited it to fate, how everything it took for them to relocate, seemed to fall into such perfect harmony. The selling of their house so quickly, finding the home of their dreams in Charleston, and even locating the perfect law firm for his relocating, all just seemed to have simple fell into place. Having lived in the historic city of Boston all of their lives, had made our country's rich history become so deeply instilled into them. Now it was time to turn the history page, to Charleston.

~~ a few years earlier~~

That first weekend visit to Charleston had left such an effect on the two of them. Not speaking of it to each other when they returned home, they went about their lives thinking it was just they having these thoughts, and not the other. However when that special week came, and they found there was nothing planned to occupy their weekend, no weddings, no showers, no birthdays, no weekend business trip, is when it all began. "Darling, what do you say we go down to Charleston for a few days? Collin surprisingly asked. "Yes!" Linda shouted. "I absolutely love that city." Smiling at her excitement, Collin tells her, "I see that the Waterfront Park is now completed." "I know, I saw that too!" she replied.

Now this trip they both wanted to make the best of their time, and do and see as much as they could. They decided to take the long ride out to the plantations down Hwy Sixty One. The Middleton Place, and Magnolia Gardens they found were almost too magnificent to take in. Being early spring, all of the flowers were at full bloom, the air was filled with a beautiful mixture of their fragrances. Seeing how life was back it that day, brought a realization to them, that even heighten their earlier one. How could man have ever been so cold and closed minded to have ever even considered slavery. What planet were we on, anyway? The disgust, the deep regrets, they both felt towards that dark time in our country's history. On their drive back Collin pulled off the road to view the wonderful straw baskets on display there. After buying a few that she could not refuse, they couldn't leave until Linda gave the two sweet elderly black ladies both a long hug, a hug they would never forget, nor would she.

"This place is so amazing darling. Thank you so much for bringing me back again." She whispered to Collin as they drove though the suburbs of what was called, West of the Ashley. Reaching over, he patted her leg, and quietly asked, "How would you feel about moving here?" "Are you serious? Collin, I'd do anything to live here. The winters are milder; all the beaches are so close, oh, if we only could." She replied back to him. "We can. Let's do it!" he states.

All that was needed to happen to make this dream a possibility started that moment, in that car, driving back to downtown Charleston. The rest of the weekend had taking on a whole new mindset, now seeing things through the eyes of two that would soon become citizens of Charleston. That night, after dinner, and after a nice glass of wine, the love they made was so different. Though they had always had a healthy sex life, this night was something unlike any before. Falling asleep in each other's arms in this quaint, but somewhat cold bed and breakfast, found their dreams hurrying to conclude, so the morning could quickly arrive.

Chapter 2

Her Dream

Hearing the muffled sounds of the couple talking as they passed by their room woke Linda from her sleep. Looking over to the clock, she began to gently wake Collin. "Collin, it's nearly eight." Seeing he was going to be trouble waking, she crawled on top of him. Being caught off guard she screamed, as he quickly grabbed her and pulled her down to his lips. After a long tender kiss, she sat up, and laughed, "I owe you one buddy." Chuckling back, he just smiled and began to get up.

They spent the day walking. They went everywhere. Crossing the street to get a better angle, she wanted to try to get all the houses into one picture as they came upon Rainbow Road. Having seen portraits of it so many times before, now they were standing right in front of them. They could see that one was in the process of being repainted. The City does not allow work to be performed on the weekends so this one will be left half finished, at least until Monday.

"I hear the salty air does such harm to the houses here. It's a painter's paradise." Collin tells her. Continuing on their walk, they could not believe all of the tourist. Couples, families, single's all looking around at all the sites and admirering everything, as they were enjoying this perfect spring weather. And the two older couples having stopped on the cobblestone road were talking as if they were long lost friends. However, they were probably from different parts of the world. The sun was warming the day so nicely; even the horses seem to have a peppier cloak in their trot. Squeezing the hold of his hand a little tighter, Collin could see how happy Linda was.

As they began their new life here in the South, Linda began dreaming of opening her own Bed and Breakfast. Looking around at some of the possible homes, none were what she had pictured in her mind. Until they saw this one that had just became available. The classic Charleston townhouse with upper and lower side porches, just perfect for a few tables for the guest to enjoy their morning coffee, or tea for the English, and maybe a quiet evening of wine out with the stars.

Hearing the knocking, Collin says, "He's here." Walking back to the wide hallway, they both open the door for Benjamin. "Welcome Ben." Collin says as he reaches out to shake his hand. "Hello folks. So you think this is the one?" he says, looking at Linda. "Yes, I believe it's everything I was hoping for, Ben." "Well, we'd better move fast. I have done my homework, and there's a few offers already being made." "Get it for us Ben. Keep it as low as possible, but don't let anyone out bid us." "Done. I knew you were going to say that, so I've already put in an offer. Let me check to see if we have an answer yet." Checking his Iphone he says, "We have mail."

Trying to read him, Linda also knows of how Ben can be quite the prankster, so she just cuddles close to Collin in nervous anticipation. And yes, with the look on his face, she sees her hopes may be drenched. "Come on Ben. This is not fair, tell us," Collin declares. "Alright, if you must know, you have just bought your wife her Bed and Breakfast." Screaming, Linda goes back and forth hugging them both, until tears begin to fall from her eyes. "I'll prepare everything, and give you folks a call. But now you can start your plans." Benjamin tells them. "You are wonderful Ben. Thank you so much." Linda whispers with tears still in her eyes.

"Ben, what's the chance that you know of a good General Contractor?" Collin asks. "Just so happens, I have a client that has just completed a renovation of his restaurant and told me how pleased he was in the one he had found. Said he was recommended very highly by a close friend. I'll get you his information." Ben answers. "Thank you again. You've been great." Collin tells him. "Any time, that's what I do, try to help people. Let me go. I want to get this closing set up and get you some keys before the week is up. Goodbye Linda, stay as long as you wish. Except for the paperwork, consider this place as yours." He tells her. Collin takes out his check book and signs a blank check and hands it to him. "Here you go Ben. I hope to hear from you soon." You will, have a great day you two." He says as he turns and leaves.

"Let's look around. I know where I want everything to go already." Linda says so excitedly. "Let's start in the kitchen. You're going to need all new commercial appliances. I hope this contractor employees a master electrician." Collin says as they walk down the hall to the kitchen. "I understand we have to submit all colors to the historical society. You think they will approve a few changes?" she asks. "I have a friend down there, I'll call her and see what she can do to not only approve them, but hurry them up also. Sometimes it can take months to go before the board." I hope not. I'm ready to get started tomorrow." She says a little concerned. "I'll mention you're planning to have brochures, maps of the city, carriage and trolley stops and times. They like to hear of anything that will help the tourism market, but they do have to stay within a limit. These houses are hundreds of years old, and should be presented as they looked back during the war." He explains to her.

They spent quite some time, discovering things, measuring places, trying to picture all the décor she was after. Linda wanted this home to be just that, a place for her guest to feel at home while there. Everything she was planning was to keep their best interest in mind first.

Chapter 3

Three Months Later

"I don't know how we could have every done this without you, Big Pappy." Linda tells him as she reaches up and gives him a small kiss on his cheek. "How many times have I told you Linda, just call me Pappy." He says with his same fun filed laugh. "The guest will be arriving soon, is everything ready, Linda?" Collin asks, seeming to be more nervous than she. "Calm baby sweetheart, you're so worked up. Relax, everything is ready and the evening will go off fine." She says trying to get him to relax some. "Here, have a drink of champagne, maybe that will ease your fears." "But the Mayor himself is coming, and most of the historical crowd. This is going to be a big deal baby. Soon your place will be filled with most of Charleston's highest political people." He says, even more nervous. "Even more the reason to relax, just be yourself, everyone will love you, I certainly do. She says smiling up at him. "Yes, Mr. Winters. You're one likable man. Come on; let's have something a little harder than wine." Pappy says leading him to the full bar they had set up.

Asking the hired bartender to mix them a bourbon and coke, Collin takes this opportunity to thank him for all the extra things he did, to make this place just what his wife was wanting. "She can be pretty stubborn, Mr. Winters, like having to have that stove vent hanging from the ceiling. You weren't around during that. We had to cut open the plaster, and reframe in an exhaust line to the exterior." "But you did it, and it looks so natural, like it was there back in its early years." Collin tells him, now beginning to loosen up a little. "My question is how on earth did you get them to approve so many changes? I've been doing work down here, south of Broad Street, for many years and I've never seen them allow anything like they approved here." Big Pappy asks him. "I can't take any credit for that. I believe it was Mr. Masterson that had that pull. Being the sole owner of our law firm, and being here all of his life, I still believe he made a few phone calls." Collin tells him. "Bartender, two more please." Pappy calls out. Chuckling, Collin tells him, "Ok one more but that's it. I don't want to be drunk at my wife's open house party." "Fair enough. Make those doubles, bartender." He yells, with his fun laugh.

The evening started off a little slow, but as more of the expected guest arrived, and seeing the bartender nearly sweating from all he was being asked to do, things quickly became lively. All the sweet comments Linda was getting of her excellent taste in everything she had acquired here, was almost too much for her to bear. The, "we must have lunch," and the, "call me, we'll get our hair done," was beginning to mount up. "How would she ever remember all these ladies?" she wondered. Calling the caterer, she begged them to bring more appetizers, never thinking the amount she had ordered wouldn't have been sufficient. The night seemed to go on forever; everyone was having the best time. "I'm tired baby." She whispered to Collin. "I know, just a little while longer, I'm sure they will start leaving soon." He whispered back, making sure he wore a smile in case anyone was watching.

Just then they heard a ringing as the Mayor was tapping his glass with a spoon. "Can I have everyone's attention?" he spoke out with such authority. "My darling bride has asked me to say a few words. She, along with myself, cannot remember having such a warm, fun evening as we have had here tonight. My congratulations to Linda, and Collin, for successfully achieving their goal. This Bed and Breakfast will be one of the most desired places for our friends from all around the world to stay, while they bless us with their visits. As you all know, our tourism industry is our largest fund building asset. So much of the monies spent here by them, goes to so many worthy causes. My hat is off to you, Linda and Collin. And if the city of Charleston can ever do anything to help you with this wonderful cause, please feel free to come to my office anytime. Thank you everyone for coming, and may God bless you all." The crowd began clapping and it rose to almost a deafening sound, as he and his wife said their goodnights to the two hosts, and made their way to the door.

Their departure seemed to trigger everyone else's, seeing them all, one by one, coming over and wishing them well as they also left. Within an hour everyone was gone. The bartender waited patiently, waiting to get his pay for the evening, so Collin thanked him for doing such a good job, and paid him the agreed amount, along with a small bonus.

Now they were alone. "Come on, let's go try out my favorite room. I know you are exhausted. This mess can wait until morning." He tells her, seeing she could barely stand anymore. "But, but all these glasses, still half full. Let me just.." "No, come with me," he ordered, "They can wait." Taking her hand he leads her up the stairs to the room he had always found the most charming of them all. Helping her out of her clothes, she lays on the bed, and before he could cover her, she was fast asleep. Smiling, he undresses and gets in beside her, and slowly drifts off himself.

Chapter 4

Saturday Morning Showers

Beginning to stir, Linda turns her head towards the so familiar sounds of Collin's slight snores. Cuddling up even closer to him, she almost falls back to sleep, but then remembering where she was, she opens her eyes. The room wasn't as bright as it was the morning before when she was placing the new linens on the bed. Looking at the clock radio on the nightstand, she saw it was already nearly ten. Slipping from under the covers, she sits up and looks towards the tall window. Getting up very slowly, so as not to disturb him, she walks over and peeks through the curtain. "Well, no wonder it's still dark in here, it's raining." She thinks to herself.

Not having prepared to stay the night here, she was forced to put back on her clothes from last night. Leaving the room as quietly as she could, she walked downstairs to find the nightmare they had left just a few hours earlier. Gathering as many glasses as it was safe to hold, she takes them into the kitchen. "But first, coffee." She says to herself, with a small smile.

Once the coffee had brewed, she makes herself a cup, and sits at the table they had designed as an island. Looking all around her new kitchen, she was so please at everything they had done. Suddenly she hears a knock at the front door. "Now who on earth can that be?" she wonders. Going through the wide hallway, she sees the image of a short person through the stain glass. Unlocking the knob, she opens to find the cutest red haired boy, no more than eleven or twelve, his hair dripping from the rain. "May I help you, young man? She asks in a motherly type tone. "Do you want to sribe to the News and Courier lady?" "Why yes, I certainly do. Will you be the one to deliver them?" "Yeah, it'll be me." He answered. "Should I pay you now?" she asked. "No, they will give you a bill. Thanks lady." He says, as he turns and walks across the old Charleston porch, and down the concrete steps, and into the morning drizzle. "Thank you too." She tells him before he was out of her sight. "Such a sweet boy." She thinks, and then she turned and went back inside.

"Well, I had better get started; this is going to take a while." She thinks. Clearing all the glasses and paper plates from the front rooms, she spends time getting everything washed, dried, and put away. Wanting to run the vacuum over the two rooms, she decides to take him his coffee first. The vacuum may rudely wake him otherwise.

Opening the door to the bedroom, she sees he's still laying in the same position he was when she had left earlier. Sitting beside him, she whispers, "Honey? Are you going to sleep the whole day away?" Stirring, he finds her through blurry eyes, and smiles. "I've never slept so sound. What time is it?" he asks. "It's after twelve." "After twelve?" he answers, sitting up quickly. "It's ok. We have nothing to do, and it's been raining all morning." "But we have a mess to clean up. Let me get up and dressed." Pushing him back onto the pillow, she tells him, "Everything is done, so just relax. Here's your coffee." "You are something, you know that." As he reaches for the cup and takes a long sip. "So, what do you want to do today?" she asks. Hearing the slight seduction in her words, his mind goes straight to wanting her. Setting the cup on the nightstand, he reaches for her. "What are you doing, my bad man?" Pulling her to him, he begins kissing her so slowly. As she relaxed, he moved his kisses all down her soft neck. "This feels so good." She whispered in his ear. Slowly undressing her, he kisses her all over, knowing the kisses to her belly always made her laugh. Moving down even lower, her giggles now were becoming soft cries of pleasure.

They made love like they hadn't in years, both becoming so fully satisfied. Lying in his arms, he waited until her breathing calmed and then whispered to her, "I love you so much."

With Monday being the first day her Bed and Breakfast would be opened to the public, they tried to find all the things to do, that may become hard to do, once it is opened. Shopping for food was the most important. And making a daily menu was also important, even if she didn't have any guest as of yet. Collin had made her a very nice web site and they both were in hopes that they would be getting replies from potential guest quickly. But if not, he could sustain her for a while, until it became profitable.

The board wouldn't approve of any large banner to announce their opening, however they did say a small self standing two sided sign near her steps, would be alright. Collin had the most tasteful one made just for her grand opening.

The weekend went by quickly, and now being Sunday night, they both thought it'd be a good idea to get to bed early.

Chapter 5

The Grand Opening

"Now remember, if you need me for anything, just call me. I have a full day, but I'll find a way, ok?" Collin tells her at the front door. "I'll be fine, what could possible happen? You get back to work, I've stolen too much of your time as it is." She tells him as she reaches up and kisses him goodbye. As he drives away, Linda hurries to get her suitcase into her car, so she can be there early also.

Arriving, she walks in and goes straight to the kitchen. But in horror, she finds the floor covered with water. Finding the source of the leak, she goes down into the basement and turns off the water supply. Back in the kitchen, she finds Pappy's number in her phone and calls him.

"Don't worry, Mrs. Winters. I'll have Jack there within the hour. And I'll have my cleaning crew come also, to mop things up." About to thank him, she hears a crash. "Can you hang on Pappy, something just crashed?" she said not believing what was happening. Going to the front door, she sees it. Broken glass all over her newly refinished hardwood floor. Walking outside to the porch, she sees her newspaper lying under the window.

"Pappy? My newspaper boy must have missed his aim, he broke my window." "Now don't you worry, we'll have it fixed as good as new. Now let me make these calls." He tells her. "Thank you Pappy. What would I do without you?" she says now somewhat relieved. "You'd be fine. It's just one of those days. We'll get it all straightened out for you. I may come by myself, just to make sure everything is left perfect. Bye now." He says. "Thank you, bye Pappy."

Just as she was about to call Collin, her phone rang. "Yes?" Hearing the voice of what sounded as a slight German accent, she went on. "Yes, we are now open for business." "Of course, we would love to have you and your wife stay, and I have the perfect room for you also." "No no, that isn't necessary; I will hold it for you." "That's fine. Enjoy your flight, and oh, do you need our address?" "I see. Thank you, my husband designed that website. We'll be looking for you tonight, and thank you. Goodbye."

Calling Collin, his secretary apologizes when she tells her he's in a meeting. "Just have him call me when it's over, alright?" "Of course, Mrs. Winters, goodbye."

It wasn't long at all when she heard the knock on the door. Jack opened it and announced himself. "Mrs. Winters, it's Jack, I'm here." Jack calls out. "I'm in the kitchen Jack, come on back." "Well, what a mess we have, let me see what happened." He tells her walking to the sink. Linda stops the mopping of the floor to show him where the water was spraying from. "I know, you warned me." She says. "I knew we were going to have problems with those old steel pipes, but you wanted to save money." He laughed. "Can you fix it? I had my first couple call for a room. They're coming in tonight." She asks. "Oh, certainly. We can patch these old pipes till kindom comes, but you really should be making plans to have them all replaced." He tells her. "I will. And yes, now I see what can happen. What if one was to burst while I had a house full of guest?" I'll talk with Collin." She promises. "Ok, let me get my tool box, we'll have your water back on before you can say old steel pipes." He tells her with a bit of a chuckle.

"Hello? Anyone home?' she hears calling from the front door. Walking to it she sees its Betty and Vicky. "Oh, am I glad to see you two. My kitchen is flooded." "No problem, you just go about your business and leave it to us." Vicky tells her.

Hearing her phone, she sees it is Collin. Telling him all that she walked into, he was about to find a way to come, but she insisted Pappy was taking care of everything, so stay at work."I was just so scared. But I do have some good news." She tells him of the call and that they would be having their first house guest tonight. Being as excited as she was, he told her everything will work out. And that he'll start preparing things so Jack could redo all that old plumbing. Saying their goodbyes, Linda goes upstairs to change the linens in their favorite room, for their soon arriving guest.

"Mrs. Winter. I'm all done here." She hears being yelled. Walking to the doorway, she looks down the stairs and sees Jack. "Thank you Jack, Do you want me to pay you now?" she asked. "No charge, ma'am. Call me if you have any more problems." He tells her as he turns and leaves.

Wanting to see how the clean up was coming; she walks down the stairs and into the kitchen. "Oh hi, Mrs. Winter. We're just about finished." "It looks like new again. You girls are good." She tells them, seeing all the water was now gone. How much do I owe you?" After they told her of the cost, she made out a check and saw them to the door. "You don't have anyone to help you here? Looks like this job could become too much for only one person." Betty asks. "No, it's just me. I think I can handle things by myself." She tells her. "Well if you ever need us, here's our card. Pappy wouldn't mind if we give it to you." Vicky says as she hands her their business card. "Have a good day ma'am. Goodbye." "Thank you again, and I will if the need should arise. Bye bye."

The phone rings as she is closing the door, so she ran to answer it. Another couple, they were from Florida and are driving here as they were talking to her. Being about an hour away she lets them know she'll be watching for them, she begins to think. "What should they need once they arrive? It'll be very close to lunch time, maybe now it's time to use my new stove." She decides.

Looking at the menu she and Collin had put together, she finds that Minestrone soup with a small salad was the lunch for today. Getting busy, she also made a pitcher of tea, as she cut up the tomatoes. The phone rings again, another couple. They were already here and stayed in a hotel last night. They will be staying all week, and was in hopes she may have a room available. Giving them her address, they said they were on the way, that it was check out time, and didn't want to stay that far away from the towns sites.

"Collin will be so surprised that with it being our first day open for business, we already have filled three rooms. Which also means we only have three rooms left?" She thinks to herself. "What do I say when all are rented to someone looking forward to staying? That may be a sad thing to have happen."

Getting back to the kitchen, she takes out the plates and silverware and sets the table. "Hello? Is anyone here?" she hears being asked. Stopping what she was doing, she goes to the door to find a young couple. "Oh hello. May I help you?" she says with a pretty smile. "We hope so. Would you happen to have a room available? The carriage ride we just came from passed by here, and we saw that you were now open for business." The nice looking young man said. "Why, yes we do. Come on in." Linda tells them. "This is so nice. Did you decorate this yourself?" The lady asked as she came in and began looking all around. "Thank you, and yes, I've had these designs in my mind for years, and finally had the chance to use them. How long will you two be staying?" she asked. "We'll be leaving Sunday morning to drive back home. We've been planning this vacation for some time. We came here a few years ago, just for a weekend, and fell in love with Charleston." "I see. You two sound like me and my husband, we also fell in love with it here. We sold our house back in Boston and made the move." She tells them. "We were thinking the same thing, but our families are all there, so we may wait a while." "I have a rack of brochures right over there, in case you'd like to see more sites then most know about." "Oh great. I'll look through them. May I take them to our room so we can look through them together?" "Of course, that's what they are here for."

Getting their information as he insisted paying for the full week, Linda gives them the key to their room. "The rooms are clearly mark, yours will be the second one on the left, right upstairs." She tells them. "And lunch will be served in about an hour." "Sounds great, Thank you." He tells her as he steps back to the door, and picks up their luggage.

Walking back into the kitchen, she checks on the soup. Looking over at the desk top monitor they had placed there in the kitchen, she saw she had two messages on their web site. Both were asking about a room. "I cannot believe this." She thought as she wrote them both back and they confirmed their places here. "Five rooms now filled. I hope I can keep up with everything." She now begins to wonder.

Her phone rings again, making her say to herself, "not again?" But as she looked at the call, she saw that it was Collin. "Hi sweetie." She answered. "I was wondering how things were going." He said. Telling him everything, he began to wonder if she may have bit off more than she could chew. She may need to be seriously thinking of hiring someone to help. Telling her this, she said, "even if I did, where would she sleep? On the kitchen island?" she answered in her joking way. "I know, but I have been expecting this. Where are you right now?" he asked. "I'm in the kitchen." "Good. Look out the back window, over to the right, what do you see?" Looking where he had said, she sees the small slave quarters. "You mean that tall pile of weeds and vines?" "Don't be silly. Under them there is probable a beautiful guest house. Let me call Pappy, have him take a look and see what it would take to get it all cleaned up and painted." He tells her. "Well, he's on his way now. Jack measured that broken window for him and he's coming to replace it. Want me to ask him?" "Sure, tell him to look it over good, but to watch out for snakes." He tells her. "Bye sweetheart." "Bye darling. Snakes?" she asked. "I was only teasing baby. Gotta go, I'll see you tonight."

Placing the cloth napkins beside each plate, Linda stands back to admire and check her approval of everything. Hearing the door open, she sees that it's Pappy. Giving him a big hug, she thanks him for coming to her rescue this morning. "It was nothing. That Jack is a great guy. Did he get you all patched up?" He asked. Yes, Jack is wonderful; he wouldn't even let me pay him." "Well let me get this window fixed. You know you might want to ask your newspaper boy to leave a small stack of papers inside. I'm sure your guest would love to look through them. And he'd not have to throw them anymore also, if you know what I mean." Pappy suggested to her. "That's a wonderful idea, thank you Pappy."

"When you are finished, Collin and I may have another project for you, if you aren't too busy." "Actually, I have nothing on my plate until next month. Tell me, what's this project?" Linda tells him how she may be hiring someone to live on the site and help her, and about fixing up the quarters out back for her to live in. "I'll take a look as soon as I get this pane in and glazed. And thank you for considering this work for me. I am not rich, so I really do need to be working." He tells her.

After he fixed the window, he walked around back and saw what he had to clear, just to get to the door. Pulling the old stubborn vines away, he found the most fashionable entrance. One lined with flat stones, though mostly buried, he could see how the character of this small guest cottage would add such value to their property, if properly renovated. Twisting the knob, it came right open, not swollen shut at all.

Walking in, he knew of the chance of snakes, so he entered cautiously. Charming is all he could think as he looked around at everything. The main room took up over half of the square footage; however, the small kitchen, bath, and bedroom were still a adequate size for a single person, or maybe even a couple, to live comfortably. Seeing there wasn't any major damage, mainly a good cleaning, and painting was all it really needed. Turning on the faucet at the sink, the water came rushing in, rusty at first, but quickly became clear as spring water. The old water tank attached high on the wall above the toilet bowl also gave this quaint place such character. Pulling the string, the toilet flushed as if it were brand new. Feeling all the wooden floors, he found no problems anywhere, along with looking for any signs of water stains on the plaster ceilings. Nothing.

"This should be a quick turn over." He thought. "I know Mr. Winters will be happy to hear this." Going back outside, Pappy walked around it to see if there were any major issues. All he found from looking through the vines was a few broken window panes. Even the three hundred year old window sills were in good shape, the paint peeling from them, but no rot that he could see. "They just don't build them like these anymore." He thinks to himself.

Going back to the house, he entered and found Linda working in the kitchen. "I have some good news for you." He tells her. "Oh, thank goodness. I really need some good news. This morning was so upsetting." "The quarters look to be in very good shape, won't take much to get her all cleaned up. I'll give Mr. Winters a call, and explain it all to him." "That is wonderful news. If he wants to get started, when can you be available?" she asked. "I can start the moment he tells me to. And thank you for considering me for this work." "We will always use you for any projects we may come across. We are sold on you, Pappy." She tells him with a warm smile. "I'll be in touch. It'll only take a day to get the permits. Have a good day Mrs. Winters." "You too, Pappy. I'm sure he'll tell you to get started right away. Bye and thanks for saving me this morning." "Anytime. You call me anytime you need me." He told her, smiling as he left.

Chapter 6

Preparing Her Place

Collin thought the price Pappy asked for was very reasonable, so the work on the Quarters was set to start. Bringing in a lawn crew, it was amazing seeing this small quaint cottage out in the open, uncovered from all the vines and weeds that held it prison for so many years. The General that had this house built must have had a high quality in his taste, for this small slave quarters, was so much more than most of the others. So many small extras he added to its style, maybe he had feelings for the lady of dark skin that ruled this simple abode.

Pappy was being so educated himself in finding these added charms, he now knew this was a very special place, its history even had him left in wonder. When he found those hand written letters tied together with twine way in the back of a cupboard, he stopped in amazement and untied them. Though years of wear and the aging of the paper itself made them hard to read, he, however, could make out that they were love letters. "Could it be she was in love with the General?" he wondered. "Did he leave to warmth of his family, and find his way out here some late nights?" "Were the loving touches he had added to this simple dwelling his way to show his admirations to her?" All these things Pappy kept near his heart as he brought this slave house back to life.

"Well aren't you an angel." He said as he saw Linda coming out with a tall glass of ice tea. "Well, it's so hot today; I thought you may be thirsty for something besides water." She tells him wearing the smile she always wore. "How's it going? I can't believe how the exterior is coming." "Things are right on scheduled. The painters are not happy having to carefully remove all those vine attachments from the brick though. The house is covered and what makes it harder to remove is that they've been for so long. But Roy is doing a great job, he's going to carefully pressure wash them off completely. I told him we didn't want to see a sign that they were ever there." Looking closer, she saw them. "I never realized how the vines grew up the walls and stayed. They are everywhere." She said. "You should have felt how attached they were. Took some real pulling to pop them off." He told her.

"Do you have a minute? I'd like to show you something." He asked her. "Yes, I just loaded the dishwasher, so yes." "Come sit. I found these in a cupboard." "Sitting, she took the wrapped papers from him. "What are these?" she asked as she untied the string. "I believe they are love letters, or a woman's account of a secret love affair she was in. Actually, I think the General was having a love affair with his slave." He admitted. "My goodness, this is amazing. May I take these? I'd like to see if I can make out what she was writing. The print is so faint; maybe I can research a way to restore them. What a treasure of history." She said so shocked at seeing this. "It seems he was in love with her, from what I could make out." "Wait until Collin sees these, he's not going to believe this." She softly said.

"Well, let me get back to work, Roy should be back in a minute, he and the boys walked down to old man Belkin's grocery for crackers and cokes." "Crackers and cokes? What a healthy lunch that sounds like." Linda said with a laugh. "Well, if you feed them fried chicken, they'd all be looking for a tree to sleep against." He laughed back. "Oh, I see. Then crackers and cokes it is then." She stated with a laugh. "Thanks for the tea, it really hit the spot." "You're welcome. Just leave the glass on the back rail; I'll bring it in later. Don't work too hard Pappy." She said as she turned, and walked back to the house, while looking down at the papers in her hand.

The Bed and Breakfast was doing great. Linda quickly found a kind way to tell people her rooms were full, in hope she wouldn't lose their future business. Her rooms now are by reservation only, and a deposit was necessary to lock them in. The work load had now proved way too much for one person to handle. Having taking out a help wanted ad in the News and Courier, was now bringing possible prospects, but none of the applicants so far was what she was looking for. Either they were too old to handle the type of work required, or they didn't have that warm manor she was hoping to find, to make her guest feel more comfortable during their stay here.

Collin having grown so deeply involved with these secret letters seemed to not be himself lately. His attention wasn't fully given to most anything anymore, having them now constantly on his mind. "Honey, are you alright?" she asked. "Yes. Why do you ask?" he asked. "You've just been so distant lately. Have I done anything?" "Of course you haven't, darling. I've just been so busy. I'm sorry." He lied to her. Something had found a place in him that no one, not even himself knew was even there. He felt as if he was being controlled by such strong emotions. It all seemed to have started when he read that first letter.

"My dearest Boraguard. The lonely nights I spend away from you are madding. All my thoughts of you control my darkest soul. I wait each eve, I wait to hear the sound of your quiet entrance, and even though I wake alone every tearful morning, my pain still cannot break our spell. Tell her, tell her my love, I can't breathe without you. We shall run away, away where no one abides. I cannot go on. Life has no meaning without you. However my darling, I will wait. I will wait again this eve. I pray to hear the opening of my door, for then, my love, then we will be one as before. I will wait. Truly yours, Agatha."

Nowhere were there any times or dates. This one was found tucked near the center of the carefully folded group of letters. That must have been why it was so easily able to be read. Though the print was faint as the rest, the text was complete. The pain she had felt, Agatha, he could feel. Most of what he could read of the others was like unto this one, her loneliness, her longing to be with him. Only a few he found shared her joy of life, them having been together the night before. "Where was his wife when he was with her?" Collin wondered. "Did she sleep so sound, she never heard him slip from her, to go?" All these questions seem to rule his thoughts, along with the love the two of them must have shared, one that could never be known to others.

Chapter 7

The Mist of the Spell

"Lisa is bringing my lunch today." Ricky tells Kerry. "Hey, that's not fair. You better share." Kerry kids him back. "Bro, it's one of the benefits of having a girl friend. Stop playing the field and settled down with only one yourself, maybe she'll bring some lunch to you too." "Naa. I'm good bro." Kerry says, with a touch of deceit in his voice. "Roy says tomorrow we're going back to the hell hole." Kerry says. "Yeah, I know. Back on forty foot ladders again. I hate that job, this one has been great, and Miss Linda has been so cool." He replied. "Hey, don't look now, but here comes your wife." Kerry teases him. "Wife? I've got your wife, dude." Ricky slams him back.

"Hello?" she says wondering where he was. "Come on in Lisa, It's cool." Ricky calls out to her as he's washing the paint from his fingers. Opening the screen door, she walks in a little nervous, "Are you sure? I don't want to get you into trouble." "Hi baby, No, not a problem. Plus Roy had to run to the paint store anyway. He'll be a while." "Umm.." Kerry clears his throat. "Oh, sorry, Kerry this is Lisa, Lisa Kerry." "Hi Kerry, Ricky has told me a little about you, but not that you were this cute." She said, then in looking down she wondered why she would even say something like that to a total stranger. Ricky also didn't seem to have liked what she said either. "Umm, thank you, I guess." Kerry replied back to break the awkwardness in the air.

Still giving him hidden glances, Lisa looks around. "This place is so charming, and I can feel such vibes in here also." She says. "Yeah, it's haunted." Kerry teases back to her. Laughing at his words Lisa replies, "Haunted? Yeah,, right." Just sitting back wondering if she was ever going to pay him any attention, Ricky finally butts in, "What's for lunch?" "I only made a couple of sandwiches. Have you any lunch Kerry?" Naa, but I'm good." "Nonsense, here, Ricky doesn't have to eat both, take one of his." As she reaches in her bag and hands him the first sandwich. Then she gives the other to Ricky. "Peanut butter and jelly, Mmm." Ricky says as he opens the bread to see. "Is this meatloaf? God, I love meat loaf." Kerry says to her. "I hope you enjoy it Kerry." She tells him, standing much closer to him than to Ricky.

Seeing things may be getting out of hand, Ricky tells her, "Come on, let's eat outside." Giving Kerry a disappointing look, she replies, "Ok, if you want to." As they walked through the doorway, she glances back at Kerry, and leaves him a seductive smile, one that Ricky never saw.

"What was that all about?" he asked Lisa. "I really don't know. It's like something had a hold on me. You know me, I would never hurt you." She whispers. "You were bordering on it pretty closely back there." He said, still quite upset. "Do you need some time away from me, Lisa?" "Oh no Ricky. I love you. I am so sorry." "Well, you'd better go, Roy should be back any time." He told her, looking down to the ground. "Call me?" she asked. "Yeah." He answered, still not looking at her. Standing up from the small bench, she reached down and kissed his cheek. "Bye Ricky." "See ya." Is all he said.

As she was backing out, Roy was pulling in. "Give me a hand, will you Ricky?" he yelled. "Sure." "Here's the sanding disc and primer for tomorrow. As soon as Nicky's meeting is over, I'll be right there, but you two can get started on time. Now don't be late, Mr. Weathers will be there, and you know how he can be." "Yeah, I know." Ricky answered as he put the supplies into his work van. "But what if it's raining, see those clouds moving in?" "Yeah, I see them. Then go to the shop and start washing brushes, we must have a hundred or so that needs to be cleaned." "Ok, sounds good." Ricky tells him.

"Who was that pretty girl, your girl friend? He asked. "No, she's just a friend. She brought us by a sandwich for lunch." "I wish I had friends that looked like her when I was your age." Roy tells him, then pats his back and goes on, "What do we have left?" "We're done." Ricky told him. "Well let's get everything in the van, and I'll go tell Mrs. Winter it's all finished." "Will do." Ricky said, as he headed back inside the cottage,

"Roy, you have done a wonderful job on our little cottage. We think everything turned out perfect." Linda tells him. "Thank you Mrs. Winters. I'm glad you like the final results. Call me when you have another project, you hear?" "We will. You can count on that. Good bye Roy." "Good bye Mrs. Winters."

The rest of the day brought in more clouds, and they grew darker by the hour. Sweeping off the porch, Linda saw the first drops of rain beginning to fall. By five, it was pouring.

Chapter 8

The Arrival of Leah

As she began setting the table, Linda kept hearing hard thunder off in the distance. Going back to the kitchen to get the silverware, she looked through the curtains. The rain was coming down so hard. Hearing the front door chimes, she hurries to see who it was. Opening the door, she saw her. "Hello. I am Leah. I called you yesterday?" "Oh my goodness, I had forgotten. Come in Leah." Linda told her. "I don't want to drip on your beautiful floor." Leah said, her hair dripping from the storm. "Nonsense, you get in here, let me run get you a towel." "Thank you, That rain was so cold." Leah said. Helping her with her suitcase, Linda closed the door behind her. Once she was in the warmth of the foyer, Linda ran to the storage closet. Quickly returning, she handed Leah a large cotton towel. "Here, dry your hair. I just hope you don't get sick." "Thank you." As Leah took the towel from her, and began drying her long blonde hair. "That feels so much better." She told Linda, trying to straighten her hair from the drying. "This place is beautiful. Did you design it yourself?" she asked. "Yes I did. It's been my dream for a long time. Come back to the kitchen. You drink coffee?" "Yes, I love coffee." She answers.

Having a seat at the island, Linda can't help to see her natural beauty. With her hair a bit messed, she looked so real. Her eyes were the bluest of blues.

The two of them talked as Linda prepared dinner, and soon they were laughing, feeling so comfortable with each other. Learning that her parents died in tower number two, brought back all those awful memories of the morning of nine eleven. Finding her so sweet and innocent, and her gracious manors, made her just what she was hoping to find. Before long Leah was helping her with the meal. "Let me wash these dishes, there's no sense in running the dishwasher just for these few, is that alright?" Leah asked. "Of course, and thank you." Linda answered her.

The evening went surprisingly well. Leah watched and helped Linda, wanting to see and learn how she hoped her evenings were to go. All the guest loved Leah, her kindness and politeness drew them to her instantly. The way she would listened so intensely to the stories some of them would be telling the others, meant so much to these strangers. And her pretty laughter at the punch lines from some of the older gentlemen's funny stories. This dinner table was a joy to be sitting at, and mostly because of her.

Linda found she could relax more and do the things that needed to be done, with Leah having them all caught up with her company. The loving hugs goodnight all the guest were giving her, as they made their way from the table, to go to their rooms for the evening, let Linda see this was defiantly who she was looking for.

After they both cleared the table, Leah rinsed everything and filled the dishwasher, and surprisingly, the same way Linda liked things to placed in it. When everything was wiped clean and the kitchen ready for tomorrow's breakfast, Linda ask her to sit with her.

"Are you sure you had enough to eat, Leah?" she first asked. "Oh my gosh, yes. I am so full. Your cooking is amazing. Everything was so delicious." She replied back. "Thank you, you are very sweet." Linda told her with a warm smile.

Leah, if you want it, this job is yours." She told her. "Oh, I was so hoping you'd like me. I am so thankful. To work in a place as special as this, and the chance to meet people from all over the world is such a dream come true. I promise to do everything I can to always make your guest comfortable. Thank you Linda." She told her being so excited. "Now it's, Our Guest." Linda smiled and said.

"Well, are you prepared to stay? I know you must be exhausted." "Oh yes. I have every I need in my suitcase. Where do I sleep, in one of the rooms?" she asked. "No sweetie. We've prepared a little place for you; it'll give you privacy when you aren't working. Come with me, let me show you." Linda told her, as they got up and Leah went for her bag.

Walking to the back door, Linda flips on the first switch. The old Charleston wrought iron pole light, which was about half way on the curved walkway from there to the Quarters, shined brightly. Flipping the second switch, a dozen walkway ground lights came on, making the walk so easily seen. "The electrician installed what they call three way switches here, So inside your door, the first two switches also control these same lights. By the way, let's not leave them burning, unless you are expecting someone, ok?" she told her, giggling about the power usage."Every penny saved, is a penny earned, they say." Leah returned, understanding how helping with the cost of electricity would always be a wise thing to try for.

"Ok, you ready? It's still raining, but not as hard." Linda asked. "I'm ready, and somewhat curious of where we're going." Leah admitted. "It's no secret. Back when these homes were built, God forbid, slavery was allowed. These high ranking military men built small houses for their help, to keep them close, just not in the main house. Come on, I'll show you." She told her, opening the screen door, she stepped out as Leah followed. Hurrying down the slate walkway they were under the shelter of the small porch of the newly renovated cottage.

"This is so lovely. I can see your handy work here as back at the main house already." Leah said, looking at all the flowers everywhere. "Well, yes, we just finish re-doing this cottage yesterday. My interior designer came and within a few hours, had placed all the furniture where she wanted it. Come on in, let me show you."

Unlocking the handsome old door, they stepped inside. "Oh my gosh. This is amazing." Was all Leah could say, as she looked around at everything. "I just can't believe all of this. You're telling me this is where I will live?" Leah asks now lost in a daze. "Yes, this will be your new home, Leah." Linda simple said, just enjoying her admiration of all they had done to make this historic old slave quarters a desirable place to want to live. "It's all mine?" still not believing all of this she stuttered. "Yes Leah, it's all yours. Get to know your new home. I'm going to bed. If you are ready to start to work, preparing breakfast begins at seven." Linda tells her. "I'll be there at seven. Thank you so much." She told Linda, with her eyes wanting to water. Hugging her neck for a few moments, she released her, and Linda left.

Leah walked around and looked at everything, not yet believing how her life had just taking such a turn for the good. Losing her parents so suddenly pushed her into a darkness that nothing from that day could pull her from, until today. Now she saw hope, now she saw a future and a very bright future it looked to be. Turning quickly to the loving presence she felt behind her, she found no one. "That was strange." She thought feeling it was so real. "I'd better get some sleep; I must be more exhausted than I thought." She decided was the cause.

Pulling the warm comforter up to her neck, sleeping in `only her bra and panties, she was so comfortable. Sleep came instantly.

Waking all during the night from such strange dreams, ones like she had never had before. She tried to recall them, as she fell back to sleep. Dreams of loves, and loves forever lost, were leaving such a sense of romance in her heart.

Chapter 9

Sunny Bright Morning

"Yes, my love, yes, yes." She dreamed. "Take me, my darling; I am yours, Oh my darling.." she cried out loud causing her to wake herself suddenly. Wiping her hand across her forehead, she felt the cold sweat. Sensing something was different, she reached her hand down and discovered her panties so wet. "What is happening to me?" she wondered, "Who is this man of my dreams? When did he gain control of my emotions?" Closing her eyes, she could still feel his presence. The deepest love he seemed to be portraying to her, was now beginning to relaxed her, his endless dedication of his love for her, and only her, was now making her feel safe with him.

Keeping her eyes closed, she was finding she didn't want to leave his warmth. Slipping her hand back down, she guided her finger to the mist of her wetness and recalling all his dreams, she fell into a state of ecstasy. Squinting her eyes closed tightly, she could feel him, there, on her, plunging his love deeper and deeper with hers. Slightly raising from her bed, she could feel him along with her, as they both released their passions so powerfully.

The singing of a mocking bird outside her window slowly brought her back to reality. Finding the clock on the nightstand, she jumped from the bed. Hopping to the bathroom, shedding her panties along the way, she showered quickly. Dressing in a hurry, she looked at herself in the mirror and found she may just pull this off. As she opened the door to the bright sunshine filtering through the large oak limbs, she paused. Looking back into the room, she whispered, "Don't go away. I'll be back later." Closing her door, she held a small smile all the way to the main house.

With the exhaust from the stove's hood right above the rear door, Leah could smell bacon before she even opened it. "Good morning Leah. How did you sleep?" Linda asked as she stop the cracking of the eggs. "I slept wonderful. Am I late?" she asked her back. "No no, you're right on time. I just started a little early. Here, let me show you where I keep the aprons." She told her. Opening the second deep drawer, she saw many there, all folded nicely. "Take your choice. They'll help keep your outfit from getting dirty. I like to wear one when I'm cooking of at the sink." "Thank you." Leah said as she picked out a flowery blue one. "Where do you want me to start?" she asked Linda. "Well, you can check the biscuits, they should be nearly done, and we still need to set the table. Only for six this morning, the Martins left early. They are driving up to Sumter to visit friends. They said they'll be back before dinner." "Ok, yes, they look perfect. I'll take them out." She said as she looked into the double oven. "Which plates do you want to use?" she asked Linda. "You choose." Is all she replied. Picking out a pretty flowery set, she carefully made this table dressed for a king. Having everything in place, she also set out juice glasses at each serving.

Hearing her phone ring, she then heard Linda calling for her. "I'm sorry. Could you watch the bacon, it's my husband. I won't be long." She asked, holding her hand over the mouthpiece. "Of course, take your time." Leah replied, taking the tongs from her. Thinking she would go somewhere to have privacy, she was surprised that she just sat at the island as they talked. Hearing Linda boasting about her, kept bringing smiles to her face. And not trying to ease drop, she could clearly hear that he was coming by in a little while. And from what she could put together, it was mainly to meet her. Along the fact he also missed Linda from her staying the night here.

Taking the bacon from the pan, she turned off the gas. "Where can a man get something to eat around these here parts?" they both heard coming from the dining room. "It's Mr. Ben. He had me rolling at dinner last night. I'll be right back." Leah whispered to Linda. "Darling you won't believe Leah, she is wonderful. She's already getting the hang of things; I may be able to come home at nights. I think she'll be able to handle things soon. You are going to just fall in love with her." Linda tells Collin, not realizing what she just said will come back to bite her. Ending their call, Linda hurries and brings the platter of scrambled eggs and bacon to the table. Ben has Leah cornered at the coffee counter and she is laughing so hard. Bens wife now coming down the stairs, yells at him, "Are you boring this precious girl with those same old war stories?" giggling at him. "He's fine Mrs. Jackson. If you ever want to get rid of him, I'll take him." She laughs back as she gives him a peek on the cheek, and goes in the kitchen with Linda to help bring everything out.

"My husband Collin is on his way here. He'd like to meet you." Linda tells her. "He must be a very special man to have helped you fulfill your dream here. I'd love to meet him." Leah says, balancing the trays of toast and pancakes. "Since we have two empty chairs, why don't we sit with everyone and enjoy breakfast together? What do you say?" "Sounds nice and I am a little hungry. Smelling that bacon all morning has me ready to eat." Leah teases. "Well come on, I think we have everything now."

Everyone was coming to the table, and seeing Linda and Leah was going to join them, Ben made sure he held the chair next to him for Leah. "I think you have made yourself an admirer." Linda whispers to Leah as she catches what's going on. "Oh you." Leah whispers back bumping her butt against hers."

"Here's a chair, Miss Leah." Ben calls out to her. "Oh, ok. But you mind your manners." She told him with a small laugh in her voice. "Manners? He doesn't know the meaning of the word, my dear." His wife stated, in humorous tone. "I may not have manners, but I am still a wise old man, just look at who I married." He said as he reached over and kissed his wife. "Aww, you are the sweetest." She told her husband.

The breakfast gathering couldn't have gone any better. Ben kept everyone in stitches nearly through the whole meal. They learned that if it wasn't for their 5 grandchildren, they would move here in an instant. But they did say they would be visiting much more often now that they found a home away from home.

Wanting to catch the first trip out to Fort Sumter, they thanked Linda and Leah for a delightful breakfast, and made their way to the door. The other guest had left a little while earlier, having made various plans themselves. All were staying again tonight though.

Finally getting everything back into the kitchen, Linda began scrapping the pots and pans, while Leah ran a sink of hot soapy water. Washing things by hand, she got an itch, and rubbed her nose, not realizing she had left a small spot of bubbles. Linda didn't have the heart to tell her, thinking is was so funning.

"Where's everyone." They heard with the sound of the front door closing. We're in the kitchen darling. Walking in he stood and smiled, as Linda came running over to him. Leah, having just finished with a plate, now turned her head to see him. "Hello, you must be Leah." Collin said, trying to hold back his smile from seeing the suds on her hose. "Hello My Winters. It's nice to meet you." She replied. Letting Linda's hand go, he walked over to her, and said, as he gently wiped the bubbles from her nose, "Please, just call me Collin. And may I say, Linda couldn't have found a lovelier lady than she did in finding you." "Thank you. You're so kind." She whispered, seeing his eyes good for the first time. "And thank you for helping me with the bubble thing." She told him as she cut a stern eye over at Linda, knowing she knew all along.

"Was the guest house to your liking, Leah?" "Oh, it is wonderful. I feel I am living in some historical dream." "I haven't seen it since Roy finished; may I walk back and take a look?" "Of course. I left the door unlocked." Leah said. "I won't be long darling. But I will have to be going soon. I have a meeting in an hour." He told Linda as he kissed her right on her lips.

Opening the door to the cottage, he was so pleased at all Linda had chosen, and how hard Roy and Pappy had worked to made it all come together. Walking through the bedroom door, he couldn't help to see her panties, there on the floor. Turning quickly, he thought he had heard a woman whisper, but there was no one there. Thinking of what he had learned of Agatha, made him wonder if it could have been her.

Coming in, she didn't see him, and walked to her bedroom door. There he was checking al the faucets for water pressure, knowing that those steel pipes may be rusting inside. Turning as he felt her presence, He said, "Oh, I didn't hear you come in." "I'm sorry; I didn't mean to startle you." She said, looking over and seeing her panties there where anyone could see. "Oh, I'm so bad. I woke late and was in such a hurry." She apologized as she picked them up. She noticed they were still wet. "Oh, I didn't even notice, and we all run late sometimes." He said trying to make her feel more comfortable. "Sometimes I just kick mine across the room." He told her trying to see her smile. "Why do I see that to be so not true?" Leah teased back.

"Oh, Linda said we'll not have anyone for lunch so I could take it easy for a while. Later we're going to change all the linens." "Oh, I see." He replied, a little quieter now. A short pause filled the room as they just looked at each other. "This may sound strange, but I feel like we've met in some past life or something." She whispered staring deep into his eyes as if she might recall him. "Maybe we did, Leah, maybe we did." He quietly replied back.

"I'd better go. I'm looking forward to getting to know you, and thank you, Linda just loves you. Enjoy your break." He said as he walked back through to the front room and then out the door.

Coming back in, Linda is sitting at the island. "That Roy is something, and all you chose looks wonderful. What are you writing?" he asked peeking over her shoulder." "Oh, just jotting down a few things I need. If I don't make a list, I'll forget something. Thank you honey, I owe everything to you. You are what made all of this happen." Reaching down her shirt, he whispers, "I sure have been missing you." Talking a long breath trying to control her desirers, from his fingers softly massaging her nipples, she whispered, "I should be able to start coming home maybe by tomorrow. Leah is catching on so fast, I'm sure she will be able to keep an eye on things during the nights. And we do have the alarm system too." Pulling his touches from her shirt, he tells her, "I can't wait. I love you. But I need to go." "I know, just a little longer, ok?" she asked. "Of course darling. Call me later, ok?" he asked. "I will. I love you so much Collin. Please drive careful." She said as he kissed her again.

Chapter 10

Spell Bound Nap

Deciding to lay down for just a few minutes, Leah takes off her shirt and pants so as to not winkle them. Slipping back under the covers, she finds a small part of her wishing he would find her again, as she slept. Drifting off quicker than she thought, she instantly heard the sounds of many men yelling, canons firing, the smell of sulfur was thick in her senses. Shots being fired from two different directions had her knees bent nearly to her chin, from the fear she couldn't help feeling. Then everything changed, it was like turning the channel from a war movie to a romance. He was there, she in his arms. Her mood changed to one of desperation, wanting to hold him there, never letting him go.

How he carried her to her bed, his strength was boundless; his kisses endless, as he laid her down, and engulfed her. Not only was she his property legally, but at this moment, she was his in every way. The shedding of her garments as he wanted her completely, with no barriers to fight through. In watching him disrobe, her worship of him quickly began. Falling to her knees, he moaned at all of her ceremonies that her worship entailed. Wanting to please him more, the slight choking sounds from her he found overpowering.

Pressing her down to the cotton filled bed, he entered her with such force, and her screams could be heard around the world. As he brought her to the highest brink, her climax was explosive, so real, it caused Leah to suddenly wake in such trembling. Though unlike this morning, this time she found her wetness was bordering a flooding. And as this morning she found she could not stop and reached back down her legs to allow him to finish her. Closing her eyes to reality she begged him and he did.

Sleep took her to a place of serenity after he disappeared. A timeless, spaceless place. A place love resides when in total bloom. Wanting him with her to be in this place together, she silently called his name, "Boraguard?"

Waking abruptly to her voice, Linda was at her door calling her name. "Yes Linda, I'm coming." She cried, her mind still halfway with Boraguard and now being forced to walk away from him. Quickly running to the door, she opened it just a little, and standing behind it, Linda asked, "Are you alright? I thought I heard you crying." "Yes, I'm fine. It was just some strange dream I was having, I'm ok now." She whispered, feeling the warm wetness draining.

"Alright, if you're sure. Want to talk about it? Sounds like it was quite a dramatic dream." Maybe later, ok? I'll get washed up and be there in just a few minutes, is that all right?" hoping to change the subject. "Yes darling, that's fine. I was only concerned for you. I'll be in the laundry." She said, then turned and walked back to the main house.

Closing the door quietly, Leah stood there confused. "What is happening to me?" Turning around, she leaned back onto it and just stood there. "When I am with him in my dreams, I don't ever want to wake." She was finding. Who is this man that I care for so? Who are you? Who are you Boraguard?" just standing there it the dark she wondered. Feeling a strong connection to him, a man of her dreams, she even began to wonder if maybe she was losing her mind.

Maybe the sudden loss of her Mother and Father had finally done her in. Or maybe she inherited some of the genes from Aunt Bell, having died in that state hospital.

Just like this morning she came out of her panties and hopped into the shower. All she had just went through, had her in such a sexual frame of mind, so maybe a quick shower will help wash away some of the evidence, she thought. When she closed her eyes to let the water run through her hair, he flashed in her mind. His eyes were hazel and kind, not the kind of eyes one would think a soldier would possess.

The love he portrayed to her in that sudden flash was the same she felt when he made love to her in these dreams. Trying to shake loose from all of this, she turned off the water, and quickly got herself ready for this afternoon's work. Besides, she knew she always had later to entertain this secret dream affair she somehow was falling into.

Rushing in, she didn't see Linda in the laundry, so she started checking each room. "There you are." She said smiling, finding her floating the sheet over this bed. "So you made it, sleepy head?" Linda giggled back. "I'm so sorry?" Leah told her as she caught the end of the sheet to help her align it on the mattress, "Have you ever had a dream that seemed so lifelike?" "Yes, I have. They can stay on your mind for days, I do recall." She answered. Remaining quiet about it from then on, Leah just happily helped her as they made conversation during their work the rest of the afternoon.

Preparing dinner was fun. The two of them were acting more like girl friends than co-workers. How close they were becoming was so exciting, Leah looked up to Linda in so many ways. Her steady strength was her best attribute, she was finding. And always having a good thing to say about someone was up on top of the list also. Now she was starting to understand why her dream was to own a bed and breakfast, it was because she was a people person. She simple loved people.

Hearing of all the day's events from everyone at the dinner table, Leah could see and hear a tiredness coming from them all. After all, it was in the ninety's today, that alone will drain you, especially here in Charleston, with its high humidity. So when they all said their good nights after the meal, she gave out her hugs and sweet dreams without hesitations.

In the kitchen as they cleaned things up, she noticed Linda's quietness, and asked her if she was alright. "Oh, I'm fine. I just miss Collin." She admitted. "Why don't you go home? Do you trust me to lock up and keep an eye on things? You have giving me the security code, so the police will be notified if anyone try's anything." Leah asks. "Oh, it wasn't a trust issue. I just didn't want to lay that much responsibility on you, knowing you have just started here. But I have to admit, I can now see you could run this place alone, if need be." "Well go, get out of here. Just be back early. I do need you to help with breakfast." Leah ordered, with a giggle. "Are you sure? Collin will be so surprised." "Yes, I'm sure, now go. I can finish here, and I'll lock up tight before I go to my beautiful cottage." "Ok, but make sure you also lock up the kitchen. The guests have everything they need out on the coffee counter. Here, let me give you my spare key. I had it made for you when I thought you were ready. It works all the exterior knobs and deadbolts. Guard it with your life." She tells her in a silly but serious way. "Thank you. Thank you for trusting me. I won't let you down." She tells Linda. "I know you won't. Just tell your dream man that you have a job." She said giggling. "It's not him that needs to be told." Leah thought to herself, but giving her a smile back anyway. "Oh, here. Let me write down my home number in case you need me for anything." She said, writing it in her tablet she kept there on the island, she then tore it out and handed it to her. "Ok, thanks, now you go, before he falls asleep on you." Leah teases. "Ok, and thanks sweetie." She told her, reaching over and giving her a quick kiss on the lips. "I'll see you at seven. Bye sweetheart." "Good night Linda. Have fun."

Finishing the few things left to be done, Leah walks around and locks up the house. Cutting on the outside lights, she steps outside and then locks the door. Walking down the steps, she quickly heads back to her place.

Chapter 11

The Eve of Loneliness

Closing and locking her door, Leah goes straight to her bed. In passing by them, she sees the panties on the floor again. The ones from her earlier nap. Just leaving them there, on the floor, she strips and climbs under her soft covers she is now getting so used to and so enjoying. Closing her eyes she drifts off from just being so tired. Somewhere deep within her desires, she finds she is longing for him to come to her.

Waking a few hours later feeling sadness, from not hearing from him, she drifts back off.

The pain of being alone hovered over her, the breaking of her heart in wondering where he was, why he wasn't answering. Why wasn't he there, holding her? Doesn't he see how she needed him?

Waiting, waiting for just a word from his lips, she heard nothing. In her dream she sits up, her scarf wrapped around her hair. Reaching for her paper, her dark fingers gently picked up the pencil. She begins writing to him; in hopes he will read and come.

"My dearest Boraguard. The lonely nights I spend away from you are madding. All my thoughts of you control my darkest soul. I wait each eve, I wait to hear the sound of your quiet entrance, and even though I wake alone every tearful morning, my pain still cannot break our spell. Tell her, tell her my love, I can't breathe without you. We shall run away, away where no one abides. I cannot go on. Life has no meaning without you. However my darling, I will wait. I will wait again this eve. I pray to hear the opening of my door, for then, my love, then we will be one as before. I will wait. Truly yours, Agatha."

In setting the letter on her small table, she turns on her side, and cries herself to sleep.

Leah, in waking later, looks over at her clock. Letting out a soft sigh of relief, seeing she has plenty of time before work, she just lays there, remembering small bits and pieces of her dreams. Looking over to see the letter she wrote him, she found nothing. Most of this dream now erased from her memory, as many dreams do, however she did remember the cold feel of that loneliness.

Chapter 12

Start of a New Week

Having made love all through the night, Collin tells her he'll be late tonight. "I tried to postpone this meeting but it had to be at six this afternoon. Our client will be leaving early tomorrow for England." He tells her as he's about to leave."That's ok sweetie. I'll have dinner ready and waiting for you." Linda says. Pulling her to him, he begins kissing her madly, "A man could get used to all of this, you know?" he whispers, with their faces within inches of each other. "Maybe by tonight, my soreness will heal. You were so bad last night." She teased. "You ain't seen nothing yet, baby." He whispers to her.

Driving to work, Linda notices the clouds. "Looks like we'll be getting some rain later." She thinks to herself. Pulling into the narrow drive way, she sees Leah coming out of her door. Hearing her car, she looks up and sees Linda, and walks down the drive to her.

"Here, let me help you with those." She tells Linda seeing she has a few grocery bags to bring in. "I left home early, so I could pick up those things we needed. And yes, I found the egg roll wrappers you asked for, he had better like them." She tells Leah as they gathered them in their arms and began walking to the side door. "It's still locked; I was just coming to open up, when I saw you." She tells Linda.

Putting everything away, Leah asked, may I start breakfast? I only need a little of the bacon and just a few spoonfuls of the scrambled eggs for him?" "Of course, I know he will be excited." She tells Leah.

Doing all that they do every morning, they now hear a few of the guest at the coffee counter. "Where's that paper boy? He's late." They heard Roy yell. Having just fished the breakfast burritos, Leah wraps them and places them in a small bag. She takes them along with an extra one she made for Roy out to calm him down. "What's all this yelling about out here? She teases Roy. "I didn't hear any yelling. Did you Jack?" he teased back. "Yelling? No, there's been no yelling out here." Jack says, trying not to smile.

"So, Jake hasn't showed up yet?" she asked, looking over to the counter he always places the newspapers on. "I'm sure he'll be here any time." She tells them. Taking out Roy's burrito, Leah tells him, "Since Jack has become an accomplice to your fibbing, I'll just tear this in two. Here Jack, here's your half. "Hey, that's not fair." Roy cries. "Shut up Roy; just be happy you still get half." Jack states, nearly in tears from laughing. "You boys play nice; I need to get breakfast on the table."Leah giggles.

Hearing the screen door slam, they all look and find Jake stuggling with the weight of all those newspapers. Helping him with them, Roy grabs the first one from the stack. "Hey, I made you something." Leah whispered to Jake. Looking into the small bag, his eyes lit up as he said, "Thanks." And then he ran back out the door,

Breakfast was becoming so much fun. Hearing everything everyone had done the day before, and all they were going to do today. And Roy, Roy had become the king of them all. It just wouldn't be the same without him. It was during this breakfast that Leah began to wonder, what will breakfast be like when he and his wife have to go back home. As she pondered this a dark flash came through her mind. His face, lifeless. Killed in battle.

Stricken by this, her heart instantly cried. Turning to try to shake it from her thoughts, the sadness was overbearing. "Excuse me, Please." She said as she left the table. "I'll be right back." Linda told them all. Seeing something was wrong, Roy told his wife, "Come on darling. Let's leave these fine people alone." Soon everyone had left to seek out whatever adventures awaited them, in this town, they call, The Holy City.

"What is it Leah?" Linda asked putting her arm around her. "I don't know." She replied, looking down, as if she herself was still trying to understand it all. "Do you need a doctor, sweetie?" "No, it's nothing like that. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to rain on everyone's parade." "Why don't you go to your cottage and rest? I can clean things up here." "Oh no. You hired me to help, and I'm going to help. I'll be ok." Leah told her, feeling as if whatever it was, was starting to lift from her heart. "Ok, if you're sure." Linda whispers.

The morning was so subdued, so quiet. The girls went about doing all that needed to be done with barely any conversing. Linda thought giving her, her space, may be what she needed right now.

The loud crackling of thunder nearly made Leah drop the plate she was putting away, as the rain began to come pouring down so hard. Lighting everywhere, the wind was blowing trash cans down the street, She wondered about her guest. And the Martins were out at Fort Sumter right about now, she remembered, looking at her watch. "Leah?" she called. Coming in quickly, she answered, "Yes. What is it?" "We might should be on the lookout for everyone to be rushing back in. Can you get a stack of towels and place them on the table at the door?" "Of course. Do you think they are alright?" Leah asked, just as another bright flash of lighting hit, making all the lights flicker. Its thunder came quickly and shook the entire house. "My god, this is really bad." Leah said, a little afraid. "Yes, this is one of the worst storms I've seen since I've been here." Linda replied, also worried.

Running to answer the phone, she found it was Collin. "Are you alright?" he asked. "Yes, just scared to death." "A tornado was spotted in Orangeburg, so it's far from over. If it gets any worse, go down to the cellar, you hear me?" he tells her quite sternly. "Ok, we will. But the Martins were to be taking the Fort Sumter tour about this time. I'm so worried about them." She cried. "The captain will know what to do, unless it caught them by surprise. But I'm sure he was keeping an ear to the weather." He told her. "I tried to cancel this meeting, but I can't reach anyone in charge, so I have to attend. But I'll be home right after it's over. Stay there, unless it lightens up some, ok? I don't want you out in all of this." He tells her. "Ok, I will. But we have a few hours; maybe things will calm down some. I really want to be with you tonight." Linda admits to him.

Just then another streak of bright lighting flashed, as a strong gust of wind hit the old three tier windows, and then all the lights in the house went out. "Collin? Collin?" she cried, but the phone was dead.

Finding her way to the drawer she found the candles they had bought and began melting them unto their stands. Carefully placing them where she thought they would be the most help, Leah, coming from the cellar yelled to her, that she had found the lanterns and had filled them. "Be careful, we don't need a fire right now." She told her. Lighting the wick, Leah turned it down as she placed the globe back. As Linda watched, Leah adjusted the wick and the light that one gave was almost like she had turned on a lamp. "I'll take this one, if you'll take the others and place them in each of the guest's rooms. "Ok. I'll be right back."

Roy and his wife came busting in, and they were soaked. "Oh you poor souls." Linda cries. "We were in a carriage when it all came busting loose. The horses were so spooked. I thought they were going to run." His wife told her. "Come with me. Let's get you dried off." Linda told her. Seeing she was visibly shaken.

"You too Roy, you're soaked." Linda turned and said. Carefully finding their way to the storage closet, she gives them both a towel. "You're home now, you two. You're safe now." She whispered hoping to relax her a little. "You should have seen it, Linda. So many people running for any kind of shelter that they could find. And the lighting seemed to be everywhere." Roy said, in a frightened voice she had not heard from him before.

Having taking Roy up to their room, by lantern light, he brings a warm change of clothing back down for the two of them. Now everyone went into the parlor to wait this severe storm out.

As they talked and the others having come in also shaken, but ok, no one noticed the rain had started to calm some. The only thunder they now heard was way off in the distance. Everyone cheered when the lights quickly flickered on and off two times, and then on. Waiting for a moment to see if they would stay on, they did and they one by one went to their rooms to properly get comfortable.

"How does chunky chicken soup sound to everyone? Obviously we weren't able to prepare a full meal." Linda asked as they were heading to the hall. "Sounds wonderful." They all agreed.

"What a day, huh?" Leah whispered as the two of them went into the kitchen. "You know it. I've heard stories of these severe summer storms that can come out of nowhere here, but now I know firsthand." She in answering her said. Reaching into the pantry, Linda takes out the cans of soup she had bought, just for times like this. "What if I make everyone a small salad?" Leah asked. "Wonderful idea Leah, they'll love it." She replied back.

Soon everyone was sitting at the table, talking as if they were one big family. Its funny how something like this can bring strangers so close." Leah thought, in just looking around at everyone, now so relaxed. Sarah Martin told their story of how the waters turned so choppy, they credited their safe return to the Captain, being so experienced and staying so calm. But her husband admitted, "they won't be going out on the water any time soon," with a laugh. Once dinner was finished and the stories slowed, each began to make their way to their rooms for a good night's sleep. Linda and Leah cleaned up everything, and got the morning coffee pots ready.

"I'm going to take the chance and drive home. I really want to spend time with Collin tonight. Will you be ok, watching things again?" she asked Leah. "Why don't we settle this right now? You are married, and you hired me to help run this place, so how about from now on, you just treat this as your daily work place, and go home every night, and I'll watch things for now on. What do you say?" Leah asked with a smile. "That was my intention the whole time. I just didn't want to burden you with that much responsibility here at the start of your employment. I hoped to let you have a little more time to get used to it all first. But yes, I can see you can handle it. Thank you sweetie. I'll be here by seven, ok?" "Ok. Now don't be late!" Leah teased her, causing them both to laugh out loud. "Give me a hug. You have been wonderful." Linda says to her. After a moment, Linda steps back and whispered, "Night." And then leaves.

Checking everything, and resetting the clock in the den, from the power outage, Leah walks into the kitchen, and locks it's door, and then out to the cold night air. Once she had locked it, she glanced up to the sky, and saw no stars, only very distant lighting. Walking to her cottage, she dodged the many puddles on the uneven walk.

The moment she entered her home, a strange feeling engulfed her. Emotions in their most desperate form seemed to pierce at her heart so heavily. Not understanding it, she pressed through it as she walked to her bedroom, and stripped from her clothes. Going into the small bathroom, she washed her face, and freshened up a little and then returned to the large chair next to her only window in there. Picking up the book she had set down days ago, she found her place and began reading. Having got so involved in this story again, she didn't seem to notice the pages lighting up more and more often. But she nearly jumped from the chair when the strongest crackle of thunder sounded, as if it was right outside that window. Right after, the rain instantly began pouring as if it were the end of the world. The most torrential rain, as what the inner core of a hurricane may be like. Looking out the window, the rain had blinded everything from view. The flashes of strong lighting had also begun, lighting up the dark night sky with every bright streak.

Sitting back down, Leah covered herself with her blanket to wait this one out; however she could sense, it may be a while. All of a sudden she jumped from the powerful flash and loud thunder that came at the same time, and then her lights went out. Having not prepared for this, she carefully walked to her bed, and climbed in. Pulling the covers over her head still didn't stop the madding flashes that were occurring. And it seemed each loud peal of thunder was stronger than the one before it. Being so afraid, she curled up on her side, and put one of her pillows over her head also. Then he came.

All seemed to quite as she heard his footsteps walking to her door. The military boots he wore could not hide his coming. Hearing the slight squeak of the brass knob, he was entering her abode. "Agatha?" she heard being whispered out. "I am here my dear." The woman answered. The tall dark shadowy figure of a man came and stood in her doorway. "Oh, my Agatha." He sighed. Feeling his hands touching her, Leah melted away. His smooth lips came down onto hers. Her curling from the fear of the storm, slowly loosened, as she opened herself to his every touch. Her desires over ruled her thoughts, his presences was overpowering. His kisses found no end, she was his, she will always be his, his love had paid her price, and he owned her heart. Leah so lost in him. Now feeling his touches for true, his hands, she could feel softly on her breast; his lips gentle touches all down her awaiting neck. As the loud thunder returned, he was gone. The storm had never subsided. All that had just taking place must have over ruled its power, it was still there, and still as severe.

Chapter 13

Histories Visit

"Hi honey. I've just left the meeting. I'm walking to the car. Are you alright?" Collin asks. "Yes darling, I'm fine, but I am so worried about Leah. I've been trying to call her, but everything is out there. The power company said they are working on it, but that the rain was so hard, it may be a while getting power restore to everyone. They said trees were down and everything." "Do you want me to drive over and check on her?" he asked. "Oh darling would you? I know she must be frightened to death. And I don't remember leaving even a candle in her place, so she's probably sitting there in the dark, scared." Linda tells him. "Ok, I'm on my way. It is really pouring over here. This may take a while, just driving might be dangerous." "Ok, Please be careful. I'll be waiting for you darling." She tells him as they end their call.

Making his way through town, he sees electric company trucks everywhere. The rain was pouring down as he reached the inn. Driving as far down the drive as he could, he saw everything was so dark. First thought he had was maybe he should check into one of those whole house generators. "Her guest shouldn't have to go through something like this." he thought.

Seeing it wasn't going to let up at all, he had no choice but to run through it, to reach her door. "At least she has a small porch to shield him from the rain while he waits for her to come to the door." He thought and was thankful for. Opening the car door, he jumped out and ran down the drive and onto her walk. Within moments, though totally soaked, he was under her porches roof. He knocked on her door, and waited.

Thinking she heard a knock, she slipped from her covers, and wrapped them around her. Walking to the door, she thought she was surely hearing things; no one would be out in this weather. But just to satisfy her curiosity, she unlocked the door and opened it a little. "Are you alright?" Collin asked. "Collin. Come in." she said so surprised. "Yes, I'm alright, but scared to death." She told him as he came in and closed the door to the storm. The letters came to his mind all of a sudden, and he didn't understand why. Holding the blanket together with one hand, she said, "Let me get you a towel." Coming back, he had taken off his dress coat as she walked to him, and began drying his face off. Seeing her there, was bringing up such emotions, of some long ago love affair. She was sensing it also, as the looks they each were giving each other were filled with quietness and passion.

Stepping closer she carefully began to dry off his hair, the scent she wore was now filling his senses. Her heart was racing, his breath she could feel as she ran her hand down his hair, then dropping the towel, her hand moved to his neck. There was no fight in him, whatever was there was suppose to be there, he knew, as she turned her face to his. Slowly leaning in to him, he wrapped his arms around her, clutching the blanket, she fell into them. Their lips so close, he could taste her breath. The passions were overpowering, as he touched them with his. This touch remained for moments, as they searched each other's eyes for some sense of it all. All he could think was her name, her name. Without releasing his hold of her, he gently whispered into her lips, "Agatha?"

Everything changed from this name being spoken. Leah could feel her desires for him, though hundreds of years old, they were now as fresh as newly falling snow. "Boraguard?" she whispered back to him. Then passions never known before invaded, his lips now tightly pressing hers as she returned every touch. Releasing the blanket, he picked her up and carried her to her bed. What had been waiting for centuries was now being fulfilled, as he made such tender love to her. Her endless releases, was his treasure, his deep reaches of her, was hers. The storm's relentless back drop of their love, seem to have been of design. Each peal of thunder, found her screaming's from his thunderous assault of her desires. "I love you Boraguard. I love you." She cried as he knew he was soon going to flood her with his power. Her cries were stronger as each one came, and his deep moans unstoppable. Both sensing it was about to happen, She locked her presences around his as they both cried out loud, releasing decades of passions. The storm quieted.

Lying in his arms, he turned and saw Leah. She saw Collin. What had happened they both knew was written in history. He stared deep into her eyes and found a fresh love, she kissed him. "I had better go." He whispered. "Don't go." She whispered back. "I must." He returned,

She followed him to the door as he dressed while he walked. She stayed bear, wanting his touches. Turning, he kissed her again and again, then opened the door to the star filled night, and left.

Chapter 14

A Fresh Morning

Waking so refreshed, Leah's first sense was of his slight scent of musk he had left lingering on her pillow. Turning and burying her face in its softness all that conspired last night came suddenly back to life. Reaching down, she felt the wetness as before, however now some of it was his. Practically jumping from her bed, she saw the sun shining so brightly making her open the few windows that she had.

That crisp clean spring air smell came floating in. Having time, she ran her shower as she slipped off the panties she had put on after he had left. Singing as a love bird as she showered, this was going to be the best day ever, she just knew.

Walking up the side steps, she unlocks the door and enters the kitchen. Checking Linda's menu, today was to be simple, Cereals and toast, "piece of cake." She giggled. Setting the table she waltzed by the coffee makers and switched them both on, as she went back into the kitchen. Seeing the time, it being seven twenty, she became a little concerned. But just then she saw the suns reflection bouncing off her windshield flickering through the window, and peeked through the curtain to see. Setting the preaches and strawberries onto the island, she opened the door for her. "Good morning." She tells her with a big grin. "Well, I'm glad to see you snapped out of whatever it was you were going through. Good morning sweetie." Linda said, so relieved she was feeling better.

Reaching over, Leah gave her a warm hug. "Well, what was that for?" she asked still somewhat confounded at her sudden change of attitude. "That was for your sweetness asking Collin to check on me. He was so sweet, staying until the storm ended. Thank you." She told her. "Yes, He's one of a kind." Linda smiled, "Strawberries?" Walking her over to her own menu, "See." As she points to Tuesday's breakfast. "Oh, I see." She giggled. "Ok, what's left to do?" Linda asks. "For you to sit and tell me everything, while I slice up the fruit. Deal?" she asked. "Deal. But let me grab a cup of coffee, I didn't get much sleep." "Oh?" Leah whispered to her with a touch of sensuality. "No, it was nothing like that. Actually Collin was tired, so he slept, I had so much on my mind, I couldn't. I'll be right back, I really need this coffee." She stated with a laugh.

Everyone enjoyed this simple breakfast, though Roy kept asking where the bacon was. Afterwards, Linda told everyone she'd like to come and bring all the lanterns back down, and store them away for next time they may be needed. So once they brought all the dishes back to the kitchen, she asked if she could handle this while she goes around and collects them. "Sure. I'll just hand wash these, there isn't that many." As she started the sink filling with water, the phone rang. "Hello?" Leah answered. "Leah? It Collin. Is Linda anywhere near?" "Hi Collin. No she's upstairs, but I can call for her." "No, it's you I wanted to speak to. Leah, I have had you on my mind ever since I woke." "Me too, darling. Me too." "I want to see you again." He admitted. "I so want to see you too. But how?" "I'll find a way. I can't get you out of my mind." "I woke this morning smelling your musk still on my pillow, I can't believe last night. It was like a dream." "I know. A dream I want to relive over and over." "Shh. Here she comes. Yes Collin, she's right here." Changing her tone as Linda walked in. "It's Collin." She whispered as she held out the phone for her. "Hello honey. What are you doing?" Linda asked as she set the lanterns down. "I was about to meet with Fred, thought I'd call and see how you were doing. You didn't sleep much did you? I was just concern for our guest. That storm was pretty bad." "Well, you would never know we had a storm with the weather we're having today." He tells her. "I know. Its simple beautiful outside." She agrees.

"Say, my afternoon is pretty lucrative, why don't we drive to the battery and get a couple of those foot long hot dogs?" he suggested. "Oh darling I can't. I have to take my books to Stan, it's that time you know. I'll be hours as usual. I know, ask Leah. I'm sure she'd enjoy a little time away from here. Everyone has plans so we won't be preparing lunch, so take her. Plus she's in a very good mood today." She tells him. "Sounds like a plan, may I speak with her?" "Yes, hang on, she's in the dining room."

"Hello?" "Linda can't go with me to get away for a few hours, and asked me to ask you, what'd you say?" He asks her. "That sounds nice." Is all she said, thinking how badly she wanted to be with him. Ok, I'll pick you up right after I talk with Fred, like an hour or so." "Perfect. That'll give me time to finish up here, and get a head start on dinner. I'll see you then, Collin, and that you. I really needed a break." She told him as Linda listened.

Going about her chores she didn't say a word. Linda kept looking over at her, kinda expecting her to say something, something at all. "Are you ok with this, spending a little time away with Collin." Linda asked her. "Oh yes, just a little nervous. He's such a nice man; I always get nervous with people I don't know very well. She admitted. "Well he is a very sweet man. Just relax and have a good time, but watch those foot long hot dogs, they can make you wish you didn't eat them, if you know what I mean. Sweetie, I need to go. Just lock up the kitchen and back door, ok?" "I will. Thank you again. I am looking forward to some fresh air, especially after last night. I'll be back in plenty of time for dinner." "Come here, look at this." Linda calls her to the menu. "You didn't see dinner for tonight?" "Pizzas! We're ordering in pizza's?" "Yes, so a salad is all we have to prepare. There's plenty of tea made already. I need to go. See you this afternoon. And have fun!" she exclaimed.

Watching her place the files in her back seat, she sees her drive out the driveway and then out of sight. Not believing how all of this has come together, especially after he said he'd find a way. Leah runs back to her cottage, and freshens up. A quick spray of beautiful behind her ears and a change of tops, and she is ready. Opening the door to leave, she nearly runs Collins over. "Hey!" he laughs, as he grabs her by the shoulders. "Oh, you startled me." She replies almost knocked off her feet. "I'm sorry, I didn't see you at the house, so.." "I was just freshening up, for you." She whispered. "You look beautiful. Are you ready?" he asks. "Yes, let's go."

Finally finding a place to park, he wanted to show her and tell her about the Battery. Once they crossed the street, Collins walks her up a set of tall concrete steps right where the Fort Sumter boat tours slip was. So many people everywhere, it was a beautiful day to be outdoors. All the seagulls seemed to agreed as they flew all around sounding their honks, and cutting their eyes down, in search of any possible food item. All of the children laughing as their father was throwing up crackers into the air, only to see them quickly flocking to them and scooping them up before they could reach the ground.

Walking her over to the steel rail he begins showing her all the forts. "See way over there?"Pointing his finger straight out to the other side of the harbor. "Yes, I do." She replies as the harbor's waters wind was blowing her long blonde hair hard. "That's Fort Johnson. That land is called James Island. And over there, out in the middle of the harbor, the one and only Fort Sumter. Holding her around her slim waist with one arm, he uses the other to point off the the left. "I've never been there. What's it like?" "Well let's see. It once had tall fortified walls however due to the many cannon ball hits and aging, most are battered and broken. But inside is a masterpiece of treasure. How the cannons are arraigned, the bunkers, oh just so much history to see. We need to take the tour sometime, just you and I.

Walking and hearing the steady splashing of the waves hitting the concrete barrier which makes up this long walk; they came to where it took a sharp left turn. Taking her by her hand, he guided her to the tall concrete steps and they made their way back down to ground level. Waiting for the busy traffic, they see an opening and quickly dash across the two lane street. Seeing all the huge cannons, along with their high stacks of steel cannon balls beside them, Collin begins telling her about some of the monuments there."Here are a few of the hero's of the war. It's a memorial of all they gave." He told her. Seeing the long list of Captains and Generals on the huge bronze plate, Leah became very interested. Looking down the list of names very slowly she stopped when she saw the name, his name, General Boraguard Caughman. Born Nov. 4th, 1734. Died Aug. 16th, 1760 in the Battle at Camden. Standing there frozen in thought, she, in counting the years, now realized, he was only 26.

After a long time of quietness as she pondered his age, his wife must have been younger, and what was she like, she turns and asked in a whisper, "Where is Camden?" "Camden is a small town up near Florence. Why do you ask?" "Can we go sometime? To Camden?"

"No!" Coldness came across Collin. "Gates should have been court marshaled!" he stated very sternly. "Such a massacre could have been diverted!" Grabbing him and pulling him into her arms, Leah called out. "Collin, it's alright. It's alright sweetie." The dark haze suddenly left his eyes as he looked down to her, and just stared into her eyes. "Where to next, young lady?" he asked as a smile reappeared on his face, he never realizing the trip back into that awful time he had just taking. Holding him close by the arm, Leah answered him with sadness in her voice, "Anywhere you want darling. Anywhere you want."

They spent the few hours they had left walking through the solemn park there, she learned so much about the Revolutionary War. When they reached the cannons on the other side of the park, Leah walked all around one, running her fingers along it's dark steel barrel. Looking deep into the large barrel, she just stood so amazed. To think of huge steel balls being fired from this had her now wanting to learn more.

As they walked around she saw the vendor Linda warned her about. When Collin offered her something from his cart, she agreed to something, just not the hot dogs. Choosing a double chocolate dipped ice cream cone was to her liking. But the summer's sun had it melting and draining down the cone and onto her fingers faster than she could lick it. Collins just laughed out loud at her silly struggle. "It's not funny." Leah cried in laughter. "Help me, I'm losing." He laughed so hard at her he had to stop and grab his stomach. She was also in tears, and fell against him for support, so as not to fall down. Wrapping his arms around her quickly to steady her, their laughter slowed. As it disappeared, a feeling came over them. It was as if there was no one around, but the two of them. Lowering his head, she raised her lips and as they met in a kiss, she drifted somewhere she had never been before. All she could hear was the mighty sounds of battle. Men yelling, screaming, smoke everywhere, the coldness of death at every turn, what this man must have gone through? A hell that most will never know. Wanting to see more, she reached around him and in pulling his lips even tighter to hers, she actually felt the cold baronet as it pierced through him.

"No!" she screamed, pulling from him and running away. Chasing her through the park, he saw that she had tripped across an oak tree's root, and had falling onto the grass. Catching up with her, he knelt down beside her. As she cried so hard, he lifted her back into his arms and tried to console her.

After a while he heard her whisper through her tears, "I love you so much." Holding her and slowly rocking her back and forth, her crying began to ease. Looking down in to her watery eyes, Collin whispered, "Come on. We had better get back."

Quietness they shared as they drove the short distance to the inn. What happened in that park they both would never forget.

"Thank you for a day I'll remember forever." He tells her as they sat parked in the drive. Turning her tear stained eyes to him, she seem to be searching for some answer. Exploring each of his eyes deep, back and forth, she saw so much love and pain. He saw her lips open to speak, "I.." but he touched them with his finger, stopping her from finishing. "I know. I know my darling. I love you too." About to cry again, Leah tried to pull herself together, and in opening the car door. She looked back one last time, "Thank you." She very quietly whispered.

Chapter 15

The Handing of Her Over on a Platter

"I know dad. Let me make a few arraignments and I'll come home. Call me if her condition worsens, ok?" Linda tells her father. "I will, and I'm going to call William right now. I'm sure he'll have Erica come to stay with her also. Thank you darling." Her dad tells her. Waiting for Collin to come from his shower, she begins looking through her closet. Taking out her suitcase, she lays it on the bed and opens it. "I think around four days worth of outfits will be sufficient, and if not, I can also wash them and wear them again." She thinks as she begins picking out the clothes she wants to wear.

"There you are. I need to talk with you." She tells Collin. Thinking the worse in seeing the serious look on her face, did someone see them at the park yesterday? Does she know about us? "Yes honey, what is it?" he asked trying to not to show the guilty look he had. "Moms blood pressure dropped, She's in the hospital. We don't have much to go by yet, the doctors are still running test. But I need to go." She says, now about to cry. "Of course darling. Let's see, you have everything you need here, and I'm sure Leah can handle things there, so there's no reason to not leave right away." He says thinking what all had to be done for her to go. "I'd like to fly." She said. "Yes, of course. Let me go to my office and see when the next flight to Boston is. And do you want me to call Leah?" he asks. "Yes, would you? This will be a large test for her. You may have to help her with the things she may need from the store, ok?" "That's no problem, and from what you've told me, she can handle it." He said trying to reassure her.

Coming back within a few minutes, He told her there's a flight to Boston International at ten this morning. "I've already booked you the flight. And Leah must be in the shower, I'll try her back in a few minutes." He informed her. "Can you drive me to the airport?" "Yes, of course, I've already call Susan, everything is fine for me to take you." "I should ask you to take me by and talk to her myself, but I'm so worried." She says having tears in her eyes. Walking over to her, he holds her and try's to comfort her. "There's probably nothing to worry about. Her doctor is the best. She'll find out what is going on, maybe just a change of medications, or a different dose. So don't you worry, she's going to be fine." He whispers as he holds her. "I hope so. I can't lose her darling." She whispered back.

Closing his door, he sits at the desk and calls Leah again. "Hello?" she answered. "Hello Leah." He replied, so glad to hear her voice, a voice he could listen to forever. Telling her everything, she tells him to let Linda know, everything will be fine, and not to give the inn a second thought, that she's got this. "I'll come by after I take her to catch her flight at ten. I am wanting to hold you, Leah." He whispered very quietly. "I so want to hold you also, Collin. I dreamed of us last night again." She told him. "I'll see you in a little while. Bye sweetheart." "Bye darling." She said ending their call.

"I'm ready honey." Linda says through the closed door. Coming out, Collin asks her, "Isn't it a little early. Your flight doesn't board until ten." "I know, but you know how the traffic is on 26, and I'd rather be there early, that way you can check on the inn, and maybe not be too later getting to the office." She explains. "I see. Ok, give me just a few minutes then." He replies. "I ran across what I believe will be an exciting political sex for hire story eBook when I was looking for something to read in Apple. So I purchased it and downloaded it onto my tablet. I plan on reading it on the flight. It's called, The Pink Tablet, and it's by an up and coming new author, Joseph David. So, I'll just get an early start on it while waiting in the terminal." She tells him. "Let me know what you think about it, I may want to read it too." He tells her, as they walked to his room so he could get ready to leave.

Driving down Meeting Street, he sees she's deep in thought. "Honey, is everything alright?" "Oh yes. I was just trying to remember what was on the menu for today. I believe today was our standard breakfast, Bacon, eggs, and pancakes as a sweet little something to finish it off with." "That sounds like a lot of work. You're sure Leah can do it all?" he asked. "Oh, you should see her in that kitchen. She's so orderly, always has what I need out on the counter before I even ask for it." "I see. Then I'm sure everything should be ok then." He said with a reassuring smile.

Switching lanes through the thick early morning traffic, Collins nearly misses his chance to exit onto the Aviation exit ramp. "That was close." Linda said, pressing her hands hard onto the seat as if she was trying to brake. "I'm sorry, I was so deep in thought, I nearly forgot where we were going. Looking for a parking space, she tells him, "No darling, just drop me off at the terminal. I want you to go so you can try not to miss too much at the office." "Ok, if you are sure." Through a touch of guilt, he agreed, knowing he had asked for the entire day off.

Speeding away, he was back on 26 in no time, and heading for the inn.

His thoughts were completely of her. He could hear that voice, and how it stimulated him. The deepness of her eyes, as a lock of her beautiful blonde hair would try to hide them. The softness of her lips, as he tenderly ravished them. He had fallen so deeply in love with her until all he wanted was to be with her. Driving faster, he finally sensed it by the way he was passing everyone, and slowed down, to match their speed. This madness he process, it was overpowering.

Dialing the inn, she answered, "Hello?" "Did you call me?" he asked. "Yes, that's all I have been doing, calling you, but not on the phone. I need to see you. I want to be in your arms." She cried to him. "I am coming Agatha, I am coming." "Boraguard hurry. My lips, oh how they miss you." The haunting now taking over, he fought through the line of men, ignoring all the gunpowder in the air, fighting his way to her. Angry horns being blown were as the sounds of shots being fired, dodging everyone. The victory of this battle was getting to her.

Driving up the drive, Collin gets out and walks up the steps to the kitchen door. Turning the brass knob, he sees her there at the sink. Dropping the fork she was washing, she ran and jumped into his arms. "Oh God. I have missed you so." She cried on his shoulder. Turning her face with his fingers, he rasied her lips to his as he kissed her passionately. "Breaking away slowly, she whispered, "Some of the guest are still here. They will be leaving soon, they all have their plans for the day."

"Let's go to Camden." He suddenly asks. "Really? Oh, can we?" she replied so excitedly. "Yes, if we leave soon, we can be there in a couple of hours." "Ok, let me put this roast in the crock pot, that'll make it easier to prepare if we get back late." She said, going to the frig.

Seeing the last of the guest off, she locks up, and they walk back to her place so she can change. Just watching her as she lifts her top up over her head, he cannot help himself and reaches for her. Her breast firm, and being pressed tight against him, he kisses her all over. Her sighs are driving him wild. Laying her on her bed, he gently removes her pants, and begins making love to her.

He kisses her lips so tenderly at first, but as the memories of Agatha begin to flood his thoughts, they become more passionate. She turns her neck to him as he moves his kisses down all over her face; her breathing is becoming so strong. Biting her gently, and tugging on her lobes, she is becoming on fire. The trip to Camden now, just a small thing they once talked of. Now, her touches, his constant travels all over her sweet brown body were all that mattered now.

Her small full breast, he would go to battle over, as he caressed and kissed them for what seemed forever. Tasting her powerful wetness, he laid his body above her, as she opened herself to him. Finding the small mystery within her moist lips, he entered her. Her sudden cries as he held her down, loving her deep, as she met his every penetration.

The bed thundered with each one, her cries became louder. This quiet day became a day of love, being made on this soft bed, in this old old slave quarters. It was past lunch time before he emptied all she had built up within him. She had flooded her sheets constantly. Lying close together, he saw her, his beautiful slave he owned and loved. She saw her General. She knew now, he must become hers, only hers. "Leave her." She whispered to him. Leave her, we can run away, away to a place where no one abides." Kissing her anew, he can't stop, as they fall back into a love making even more powerful than the one earlier.

Four o'clock, they lay breathless, their hearts beating madly. As they began to eased, Leah whispered, "I have the thought of dinner to entertain." "Yes, I know." Turning on her side, she lays her leg across him, and cuddles close to him. Their wetness's covered them, but they did not care. They were passions that came out of their love. "Come on." Collin tells her, pulling her up and out of the bed. Walking her to the shower, he runs the water, as he kisses her breast. Helping her in, he follows as they made love against the shower walls. The warm water flowing through her hair as she climaxed over and over again, making her knees weak and buckle with each massive released. As he felt it coming, he held her tight against the tile, and in thrusting her hard, he flooded her, once again.

The place they found themselves in today was over the barrier, with her now wanting him all to herself. Clucking his neck hard, she quietly screamed her desires to have him as hers only, "Leave her." She begged. "Leave her, you are mine."

Just as what happened in an earlier dream, hundreds of years ago, now she saw he could finally be hers.

Opening her door to go, Leah tried to pull him back. Her love for him was now unstoppable."I must, darling, I must." He tells her turning and falling into another endless kiss. "I will tell her." He whispers, and then leaves.

Chapter 16

Well Made Plans

Running to the main house, her thoughts were everywhere, except at the inn. Stirring the roast, the meat was just falling apart. Putting on a pot of rice, Leah drops the corn on the cob into the boiling water. Busy as she was, she still noticed the kitchen door open a little, "Is everything alright? Where is Mrs. Winters?" "Erica, hi." she said, a little surprised at seeing her standing there. Telling her of Linda's mother being in the hospital, Erica asks, "Do you need some help? I'm not doing anything." "Oh yes, thank you. Can you set the table?" "Of course." She replied coming in to find the plates." Watching how she handled the expensive plates, Leah knew she was a woman of class.

Coming back for the silverware, Leah thanks her for all the help. "Oh, this is fun." Erica says with a sweet smile. "Which glasses do you want to use?"She asked. Remembering how Linda had given her the choice of plates that first day, she told Erica, "You choose."

Watching, she saw how she showed such dedication in finally picking out the crystal ones.

This dinner was a big hit with everyone. She and Erica were forced to make numerous trips to the over for more biscuits, from everyone loving them so much.

As they both cleaned things and put everything away, Leah mysteriously became lost in her thoughts. She began to wonder, when Collins takes her away, maybe it is writing in the stars that Erica will take over her duties here. Her and her husband both made it so clear during dinner that this is where they want to move to, to live. Sensing that fate was on her side and was also preparing everything for this drastic change to happen, now allowed her to begin relaxing in her hopes. "We'll run away in happiness, and Linda will continue on here, just as always before." She now started believing. This haunting was now beginning to blind her true judgments. Caught up in this centuries old spell, Leah was too far gone to just shake it away.

How they would love away the remainder of their years. Linda would find another, and the inn would never feel the change. All was going to be perfect. Remembering the shower they shared, the deep love he emptied into her. "He was mine." She now believed. "Nothing can change the things fate and love agree to.

Running so happily through the rain, she opens the door and is now in her dry wonderland. Sitting on the bed, Leah runs her hand over the wet areas they left, and began recalling all that they had shared today. "How can anyone be this happy?" She wondered. The phone began ringing.

"Hello?" she answered. "My darling Agatha. I am on my way." Collin whispers. "Oh my love. I love you so." She cried. "I've just left the house. I packed everything I wanted, and darling, to show my love for you, though no one would ever approve of our union, I left her a letter." He said. "A letter, darling?" "Yes, I told her everything." Suddenly she heard what sounded like a screaming crash. "Darling?" she cried."Honey?" now her cries becoming desperate. "Boraguard!" she screamed.

Listening through the silence; she could not put the phone down. Soon she heard the distant sounds of many sirens, and they were getting louder. The muffled voices of men all talking at once. The feel of a baronet pierced her heart as one said, "He's dead." "No." she thought. "No!" she screamed throwing the phone across the room.

Stumbling to the window she looked out into the night with a long lost stare. The heavy rain had stopped.

The End
