

I Went To Hell

My Experience In Hell And How You Can Escape Hell!

D K OKINE
Unless otherwise stated, all Scripture quotations are taken from the King James Version of the Bible.

I Went To Hell by D K OKINE

Published by David K Okine at Smashwords.

Copyright 2017 D K OKINE

Smashwords Edition.

First Edition published D K Okine at Smashwords 2017

Find out more about D K Okine at:

United Denominations Originating from the Lighthouse Group of Churches (UD-OLGC)

Durban, South Africa

Write to: mailto:

mailto:okined@gmail.com

Contact DK OKINE on +27 769 567 069

All rights reserved under international copy right law. Written permission must be secured from the author to use or reproduce any part of this book, except for brief quotations in critical reviews or articles.

Smashwords Edition, License Notes

This eBook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This eBook may not be re-sold

or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person,

please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did

not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to your

favourite eBook retailer and purchase your own copy.

Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

It is illegal to copy this book, post it to a website, or distribute it by any other means without permission. D K OKINE asserts the moral right to be identified as the author of this work.
Dedication

I dedicate this book to my father who birthed me in the ministry of our Lord Jesus Christ, Bishop Dag Heward-Mills. Not forgetting my spiritual mother Lady Rev Adelaide Heward- Mills for her mentorship and guidance. I owe everything I am, have and know to you father.

Your seed shall be mighty upon the earth!

Acknowledgement

Bishop Dag Heward- Mills – Father, all that I know and all that I am is from the out pour of the anointing of God upon your life and ministry. Thank you a million times more.

Bishop Larry Odonkor- Thank you very much for your encouragement and support. I am really glad to know you and be associated with you.

John Ebo Opare – You did a great job of taking time and great effort in designing the cover page of this and many other books. I am highly grateful.

Angela Raynekye – You have been a faithful friend and a great support. I acknowledge all your time, effort and energy in helping with the books and many other things.

Mrs. Maame Adjoa Okine – My dear lovely wife, thank you for your much support, patience and dedication. May the Lord remember your labor of love.
Preface

Different people, cultures, religions and different practices of men have various perceptions of the afterlife. What will happen to me when I die? Where will I go to after I am dead? What will I become after I have died?

These are all questions that millions of people are still trying to find answers to. It is amazing that the Holy Scriptures provide us with all the answers which we seek for. Many religions provide theories and answers but please understand that after death, the real discoveries are made. If you do not believe in the answers that Holy Scriptures provides, it is only after death that people know where they go, what happens to them and answers to the afterlife.

The Holy Scripture is like a book that opens our eyes to see the reality of this life and the reality of life after death. I pray that as you read this book and the experience the Lord allowed me to have which I have also elaborated in this book, you will come to respect and revere God and the Holy Scriptures more and more. Do not treat this subject lightly as many have, only to their regret for not believing in the Holy Scriptures regarding Hell and how everyone can escape the reality of Hell.
Table of Contents

Chapter 1 My Experience in Hell

Chapter 2 Would You Be Carried By The Angels Of Life Or The Angels Of Death

Chapter 3 Ten Unique Ways You Can Escape Hell

Chapter 4 The Urgency In Preaching of The Gospel of Salvation

Chapter 5 The Greater Love Of Jesus Christ

About D K Okine

Other Titles By D K Okine
Chapter 1

My Experience in Hell

This is a true testimony of what happened to me on the 1st of January 2008 between the hours of 12am and 1 am. I remember this experience so clearly because this was more than just a vision. It seemed to be real and immediately after that experience, I wrote the experience in my dairy. I remember returning home from the crossover service we had in church sometime after 12 midnight. Tired as I was, I went straight into my room to rest but still had the urge to pray more and spend time with the Lord, after all, it was the beginning of a new year.

Finally I decided to kneel beside my bed on a pillow to pray then suddenly I fell into a trance and was completely cut off. My spirit was descending deep down, to where? I did not know. I realized I was descending deeper and deeper down a place and I had no control over my descent neither could I not stop it. I could not bring myself back up nor stop myself from falling deeper down. All I remember was that I was being drawn down by a "force".

I was then conscious that my spirit had left my body. Deep down, I arrived at a huge arrival hall. This place was like no other, why do I say that? It was completely cut off from this world.

There was no communication whatsoever from where I was to this present world. It was a dreadful arrival and I tried several times to call out to my parents since I knew I was home with my parents who were in their room next door.

I screamed and screamed from down there, I suddenly realized that those down there with me could hear my screams as the loudest but no matter how loud I screamed, I was completely cut off from the life on earth. My parents could not hear me. I tried to reach out for help but all my efforts yielded no results as I found myself in a place completely cut off from the life I knew on earth.

Suddenly, I recognized a young lady I knew on my university campus, she walked to me and explained to me exactly where I was and what was happening to me. I think she approached me because she realized how confused and frustrated I was, and how I kept screaming like a little boy who had been abandoned by his parents and was so afraid. Within a short period of time, I saw thousands of people arriving in groups and in batches and I was completely shocked. Arrivals were being made routinely. This occurrence is described in the scriptures.

Hell from beneath is moved for thee to meet thee at thy coming: it stirreth up the dead for thee, even all the chief ones of the earth; it hath raised up from their thrones all the kings of the nations.

Isaiah 14:9

I also saw huge creatures; these were not human beings but could best be described as huge demonic beings. Also, I realized that these huge satanic beings had some sort of power and authority in this realm and were acting as task masters over all the arrivals. They were hulling the people and driving them into divisions and these beings seemed to be very strong physically.

While some of these demonic task masters were arranging the people into divisions and groups, others were leading these divisions into the various sections and departments of Hell. The arrivals were bound in heavy chains like slaves and led away; those proving to be difficult were beaten mercilessly and dragged away. These huge demonic beings led their captives into the various dungeons as I watched. I began to understand that we were really in Hell. Millions of people however kept arriving almost every second. This is clearly explained in scriptures.

The wicked shall be turned into Hell, and all the nations that forget God.

Psalm 9:17

On arrival, you were welcomed unpleasantly by the creatures and immediately sent to your dungeon or the section to which you were identified to belong. As I went through one of the hall ways, it lead to a place I did not know but I found masses locked up in what looked like prison cells.

I do not know how I got in but I went into one of the locked up prison cells. There, I recognized various groups of people. Firstly people I knew who were famous on earth, popular musicians, and celebrities.

Hell from beneath is moved for thee to meet thee at thy coming: it stirreth up the dead for thee, EVEN ALL THE CHIEF ONES OF THE EARTH, it hath raised up from their thrones ALL THE KINGS OF THE NATIONS.

Isaiah 14:9

Secondly I saw some Christians, why do I call them Christians? This is because I knew them back on the university campus, at least they were identified as Christians on campus. These Christians looked very sad when they recognized me. They wore an expression which easily said "how come you have also ended up here?" I was also surprised to find them there.

This can also be explained from the scriptures about people who act as Christians but are really not Christians. There are others who will also be cast into Hell because they are lukewarm, neither hot nor cold and finally those who have a secret lifestyle of wickedness.

And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity.

Mathew 7:23

Let death seize upon them, and let them go down quick into Hell: for wickedness is in their dwellings, and among them.

Psalm 55:15

I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot: I would thou wert cold or hot. So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spue thee out of my mouth.

Revelations 3:15-16

Thirdly, I also recognized some folks whom I knew back on my university campus, these were staunch unbelievers on the university campus. They recognized me and though in unbearable pain, they were some-how happy to see me there and they actually seemed to be laughing at me with this expression written on their faces "we are happy that you who were a preacher on campus has also arrived here with us".

But the fearful, and UNBELIEVING, and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone: which is the second death.

Revelations 21:8

I heard one say "Ah this guy has also come here, weren't you the one who was always preaching on campus, in lecture halls and at the residences, how come you are here?" These guys were mocking me because they knew me as a preacher back on campus as I had found myself currently in Hell with them.

The fourth group of people I also recognized were pastors and servants of God whom I knew while on earth and one outstanding surprise was that I was able to recognize my pastor. This pastor pastored me as a young teenager in my previous church before I started my first year in the university. He looked so sad and remorseful.

I understood that he had been rejected by God, and had been cast down into Hell. It looked like he had misused the tithes, the offerings and the gifts of God. He had also done many other things which God did not approve and were inconsistent with the Holy Scriptures. Though he was a pastor, his deeds and actions were not pleasing unto God. This occurrence can be explained from the scriptures in the Gospel of Mathew.

Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name cast out devils? And in thy name done many wonderful works? And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity.

Mathew 7:22-23

He actually received a more severe punishment and was handed over to the "tormentors" to be tormented. I do not know how, but being there, I understood that Christians whose actions were not pleasing unto God, Christians whose deeds were inconsistent with the word of God and Christians who had taken the grace of God for granted were rejected to Hell. Such received a more sore punishment in Hell.

The "tormentors" were excited to torment, inflict unbearable pain and more sore punishment on such Christians. These rejected Christians were treated more harshly and more severe because they once caused major problems to the devil and his agent's whiles on earth and now have been handed over to the same devil they once opposed to be tormented for eternity. It was just as though your enemy had fallen right into your hands and you were allowed to inflict pain and do what so ever you desired to him or her. This incident makes me recall what our Lord Jesus Christ said in gospel according to Mathew.

Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of my father which is in heaven.

Mathew 7:21

The Christians and pastors who found themselves in Hell were those who prophesied in the name of the Lord Jesus, cast out devils in the name of the Lord Jesus, and did many wonderful works in the name of the Lord but never established a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus nor knew the Lord Jesus personally.

Furthermore, these Christians and Pastors were rejected by God was that they did not do the will of the Father in heaven. They might have achieved their desired goals but not what the Father instructed them to do. This resulted in them being rejected by the Lord Jesus Christ and being described as "workers of iniquity".

An interesting occurrence worth mentioning is that, whiles in Hell, I observed that Satan had in his possession all the souls of men who were not truly born-again. Why do I say that? Unbelievers are destined to go to Hell unless they are saved and there was no struggle about that down there in Hell. The scriptures confirm this in the gospel of Luke where the devil was boasting about how he possessed all the kingdoms of this world and the souls therein and our Lord Jesus Christ never denied the devils authority thereof.

And the devil, taking him up into an high mountain, shewed unto him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. And the devil said unto him, all this power will I give thee, and the glory of them: FOR THAT IS DELIVERED UNTO ME; and to whomsoever I will I give it.

Luke 4:5-6

As I watched millions of souls arrive in Hell bound in chains, it looked as though such people were already in Hell while living on earth. Satan already possessed their souls in Hell and it wasn't any surprise to them that they were in Hell after their life on earth was over.

As the scriptures describe, Satan is the god of this world, he actually controls and runs the world, its systems and the souls of the people in it. The authority to do so was given him by Adam, the first man when Satan successfully deceived Eve his wife leading to Adam disobeying God in the Garden of Eden.

And the devil, taking him up into an high mountain, shewed unto him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. AND THE DEVIL SAID UNTO HIM, ALL THIS POWER WILL I GIVE THEE, AND THE GLORY OF THEM: FOR THAT IS DELIVERED UNTO ME, and to whomsoever I will I give it.

Luke 4:5-6

In whom the god of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them.

2 Corinthians 4:4

Others tried to struggle with the demons assigned to them because such were surprised to be in Hell. They were not expecting to end up in Hell at all. What they believed in had disappointed and failed them! While they thought they were going to heaven or some better place after their life on earth, they ended up with Satan in Hell. Such are people who were deceived into following and believing false doctrines, false religions or who were themselves atheists. Others among these were people who were promised through their religious beliefs and practices that they would be justified or be in peace after their life of earth was over.

What a deception! These people rather ended up in Hell. They were the ones who were struggling with those demonic creatures and were protesting while being dragged into their dungeons in Hell. Satan had deceived them fully through false beliefs and false religions.

And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, WHICH DECEIVETH THE WHOLE WORLD: he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.

Revelations 12:9

Recounting this experience is a terrible thing. As I write, I can still see the indescribable anguish and suffering I saw down there. Many were ignorantly deceived and followed blindly the religions, practices and beliefs of men and this eventually led them to Hell. This reminds me again of the words of Jesus Christ in the gospel of Mathew.

And Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you.

Mathews 24:4

This was a regrettable sight to see, many been hurled into Hell because either they were deceived by men, or followed the traditions of men, or believed in false religions and doctrines, or even followed their own mind- sets and devilish and strange ideologies.

Many had also followed the teachings of devils and demons unknowingly to them but it was too late for any of them to repent and believe in Jesus Christ since they were in Hell already. It was really a regrettable sight to behold. I still feel it within me, the anguish and the regret of many. Decide to believe while you have the time and the opportunity to do so before it's too late.

Intuitively, I realized it was a place of condemnation with no hope of salvation from anyone or anything. Hell is a place of no other opportunity to reconsider any of your decisions, your actions or your earthly choices. Hell a place of no return and if you find yourself there, you are eternally doomed with no glimpse of redemption.

Who is he who would come or could even come to save you from Hell? There is only one person with such great power to redeem souls from Hell; Jesus Christ the Son of the Living God and if you have already rejected Him, reconsider your decision while you are still alive and serve Him.

As I mentioned earlier, Satan has the souls of many people on earth in Hell. It's as though they belong to him and when they die, he just reaps their souls into Hell where they belong unless they received salvation through Jesus Christ our Lord. An unfathomed truth which I also recall in this experience was that, though people who did not believe in Jesus Christ and in the salvation that He offers are condemned to Hell and that Satan has in his possession their souls, every human being has the hope of redemption whiles alive on earth.

If anyone could believe in the gospel of Jesus Christ, repent and accept the salvation that Jesus Christ offers while he or she is still alive, he could have the rarest opportunity for his soul to escape Hell.

I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish.

Luke 13:5

Why do I make such a statement? As I was down there I saw something like a "greater force" snatch the souls of men who were still alive on earth but had their souls bound in Hell and were in Satan's grip out of Hell. I can liken it to a shooting star. Some of the souls were snatched and shot out of Hell like a shooting star by this "greater force".

As I watched, I saw what I have just described; shooting stars out of Hell and forcefully out of Satan's grip. I also saw that Satan and those forces of Hell could not do anything about those escapes. I then understood that such people whose souls were snatched out and shot out like shooting stars from Hell were people who were still alive on earth as unbelievers condemned to Hell but who had just believed in Jesus Christ and had accepted the redemption and Salvation that Jesus Christ provided just before their death on earth.

It was so clear, as soon as an unbeliever receives the gospel of Jesus Christ, repents and believes in Jesus Christ, his soul is immediately redeemed and snatched out of Hell into Eternal life.

Everyone in Hell had the opportunity to see this notable occurrence, we could all see these souls shooting out like stars leave Hells atmosphere and out of Satan's grip. Remember, this was only possible for those who had not died as yet but were still alive on earth. This strange occurrence too is explained in the scriptures.

But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave (Hell): for he shall receive me. Selah.

Psalm 49:15

I will ransom them from the power of the grave, I will redeem them from death....

Hosea 13:14

Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son.

Colossians 1:13

From the scripture above, the Apostle Paul talking about God our Heavenly Father, explains what I saw down there. God through His Son Jesus Christ is the only one who has the power to deliver the souls of men from Hell and translate us into the kingdom of his dear Son Jesus Christ.

Now the word "to translate" is the Greek word "methistemi" which means;

1. To transfer

2. To carry away

3. To exchange

4. To pull out

5. To remove.

This furthermore validates what I saw down in Hell. The Souls of men who repented while they were alive on earth were pulled out of Hell and carried away or transferred into heaven. Our Lord Jesus Christ is the ultimate ransom; He paid the acceptable and the appropriate price to redeem the souls of men from death and Hell.

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

John 3:16

You must understand this! Once you still have breath, you have a chance to repent, believe in Jesus and accept the salvation that comes from Jesus Christ. All those in Hell could see these "shooting stars" which many did not understand and even if they did, it was too late for them since they had already died from earth but were alive in Hell.

Throughout this occurrence, there were still millions of people were still arriving at what seem to be the "arrival gates" in Hell and were being hurled into their dungeons or "places of torment". I knew that those people who had just arrived were forever doomed and could never be redeemed or have another opportunity to be saved from Hell.

Hell from beneath is moved for thee to meet thee at thy coming: it stirreth up the dead for thee, even all the chief ones of the earth, it hath raised up from their thrones all the kings of the nations.

Isaiah 14:9

Another interestingly scene I cannot forget were certain individuals who arrived I Hell adamant, hardened, untouched with any regret, and without any feeling of remorse. It was as though they were home or as if they knew they were coming to Hell anyway so there were no surprise expressions on their faces.

The 5 Different Types of Torments In Hell

You must clearly understand that God did not create Hell as a place for any human soul. Though your body may be dead on earth your soul maybe alive in Hell; your life still continues down there but in great torment, pain and affliction. There are different ways by which torture is meted out to souls in Hell.

And in Hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments.......

Luke 16:23

The Torment of Thirst.

And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, THAT HE MAY DIP THE TIP OF HIS FINGER IN WATER, AND COOL MY TONGUE.....

Luke 16:24

The Torment of Being Touched Up In Flames.

.....for I am tormented IN THIS FLAME.

Luke 16:24

The Torment of Being In An Unquenchable Fire.

...than having two hands to go into hell, INTO THE FIRE THAT NEVER SHALL BE QUENCHED:

Mark 9:43

The Torment of Being Eaten Up Alive By Worms.

WHERE THEIR WORM DIETH NOT, and the fire is not quenched.

Mark 9:44

The Torment of Having All Your Senses Alive And Active In Hell.

And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, AND NOT THAT THY WHOLE BODY SHOULD BE CAST INTO HELL.

Mathew 5:29

You could literally hear the sounds and screams of condemned souls, the pain and the anguish there is indescribable and unbearable. It is interesting to know that there is no death there to end the sufferings, No! The suffering is eternal with no hope of redemption. I suddenly realized that I was taken to this place and allowed to see what I saw and feel what I felt so that I would be a faithful witness to testify and announce to everyone.

A faithful witness will not lie: but a false witness will utter lies.

Proverbs 14:5

One of the reasons why I decided to write and publish this book is so that this material would be able to witness and testify to millions of souls worldwide about the reality of Hell.

Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter...

Revelations 1:19

Saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last: and, what thou seest, write in a book, and send it.....

Revelations 1:11

I can't describe what happened next but I realized that my spirit was brought back into my body and I realized that I was still in my room exactly where I knelt praying. I suddenly became conscious and aware of my surroundings and I was sweating all over because I had just had a near death experience. I couldn't believe what I had just been through as I was extremely terrified. This experience remains as a scar with me even today; I recall it all the time.

I would not have easily woken up from that experience, I could have died and be left in Hell but God was merciful. I am so glad and comforted that I woke up from that experience. I immediately took my diary and recorded all that I could remember then from my experience. This experience was a terrible one and as I recount it, it is still very real to me.

This is my experience in Hell of which I thank God that I returned alive. Make sure you take advantage of my experience and see the urgency of believing in Jesus Christ as your saviour in time. Help in spreading the gospel of Jesus Christ to others. In Luke 16, the rich man who was in Hell pleaded for someone to go from the world of the dead to witness to his five brothers who were still alive on earth.

Today God has given me the privilege to carry this message and experience from the world of the dead to the world of the living. It's your time to believe, repent and accept the salvation in Jesus Christ.

Then he said, I PRAY THEE THEREFORE, FATHER, THAT THOU WOULDEST SEND HIM TO MY FATHER'S HOUSE: FOR I HAVE FIVE BRETHREN, THAT HE MAY TESTIFY UNTO THEM, LEST THEY ALSO COME INTO THIS PLACE OF TORMENT. Abraham

saith unto him, they have Moses and the prophets, let them hear them. And he said, Nay, father Abraham: BUT IF ONE WENT UNTO THEM FROM THE DEAD, THEY WILL REPENT. And he said unto him, if they hear not Moses and the Prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead.

Luke 16:27-31

My prayer is that as you read this book, if you haven't met the Lord Jesus Christ yet or have not been saved through Jesus Christ, you have an opportunity to do so now before it's too late. You can be saved.

Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.

John 3:3

That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation.

Romans 10:9-10

I would encourage you to pray this prayer with me and I believe your soul will be saved and you will be born again and reconciled unto God.

A Prayer To Receive Jesus Christ As Saviour And To Escape The Damnation Of Hell

Heavenly Father, I thank you for my life. I thank you for sending your Son Jesus Christ to die for my sins. I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of the living God and I accept Jesus Christ as my Lord and personal saviour.

Today, I make an open confession that I believe and accept Jesus Christ as my Lord and saviour. Thank you Heavenly Father for saving my soul in Jesus name. Amen!

If you are already saved reading this book, make sure you recommend this book to others or use this book as a tool for outreach and every form of evangelism. It's time tell others about the salvation that comes only through Jesus Christ, the reality of Heaven and Hell and how they can escape the damnation of Hell.
Chapter 2

Would You Be Carried By The Angels Of Life Or The Angels Of Death?

And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of sores, And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table: moreover the dogs came

and licked his sores. And IT CAME TO PASS, THAT THE BEGGAR DIED, AND WAS CARRIED BY THE ANGELS into Abraham's bosom: the rich man also died, and was buried; and in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.

And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame. But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things: but now he is comforted, and thou art tormented.

And beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed: so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot; neither can they pass to us that would come from thence.

Luke 16:20-26

This scriptural passage reveals to us what happens when the human soul dies on earth. Every one of us would be ushered into eternity and who ushers you or how the ushering will take place is entirely your decision.

The phrase "carried by" as used to describe what happened to Lazarus is the original Greek word "apopherō", which can be translated as;

1. To be ferried by

2. To be transported by another

3. To be carried away by another

4. To be lifted off

5. To be received by

From the scriptural passage above, Lazarus, a Christian brother was ushered into eternity by the angels of God whereas with the rich man who ended up in Hell was obviously ushered by demons or angels of death.

The Ushers of Eternity

There are two types of ushers who have and will usher of the souls of men into eternity;

1. The Angels of Life

2. The Angels of Death

Have you ever asked yourself who would usher you into eternity? When you are passing on into eternity, who would meet you at the gates of Heaven or at the gates of Hell?

My Uncle Who Died And Was Ushered Into The Corridors Of Hell

I recall my mother recounting the final moments of my uncle, Uncle Foster. Uncle Foster was my mother's eldest brother who was not too old; at least I knew he was in his late fifties as he lay dying of something on his hospital bed.

I have never heard of such a terrible passing on. During his final moments as he was slipping away from this earth into eternity, he started seeing the reality of the world of the dead and Hell.

One day on his hospital bed, as few of his family members looked on helplessly, he started screaming out loud "a me mba eee , a me mba" in the Ga local dialect which can be translated as "they are coming for me! they are coming for me!".

This was very strange because there was no evidence of anyone coming for him, not any of his family members, the doctors or nurses on duty in that hospital. What he was experiencing was the demons of hell coming to drag his soul from the land of the living into the death of Hell and Uncle Foster was hoping for any of his family members standing by to save him from those demons who were coming for his soul.

The angles of death from Hell were coming for his soul and there was nothing he or anyone present could do about it. He screamed out the more "they are coming for me! they are coming for me!" and surprised as they were, his family members who were by him could not understand why he was screaming or who it was coming for him. At that point and in those few moments, I believe he saw the demons of Hell getting closer to him ready to hook him to Hell.

Uncle Foster lived his life as he pleased from his youth, neglecting the way of escape from Hell that God has provided through His Son Jesus Christ. He had several opportunities to surrender his life to Jesus Christ from his youth but he wouldn't, rather he criticized pastors, made fun of churches and gave himself to alcohol and the pleasures of this world as most young people do.

Now it was too late for him, the hordes of Hell were already by his bedside at the hospital ready to harvest his soul into eternal damnation. Such a sad scenario is what would happen to all who neglect God and the great way of escape that our Heavenly father has provided for the souls of men; Salvation through Jesus Christ His Son.

Have you ever wondered who would usher you into eternity? Would it be the Angels of God or the Demons of Hell? The choice is yours to make now that you are alive and well!

I call heaven and earth to record this day against you, that I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing: therefore choose life that both thou and thy seed may live.

Deuteronomy 30:19
Chapter 3

Ten Unique Ways You Can Escape Hell

HOW SHALL WE ESCAPE, if we neglect so great salvation, which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him!

Hebrews 2:3

Many people have successfully been able to escape from certain prisons in various countries through various connections and schemes. Many movies have also been produced which shows how intelligent certain criminals can be; how they can find their way around high security systems and break-out of prison.

One of such movies I watched a while ago was the TV series "Prison Break". You may be the smartest jail breaker in your country or you may be such a person who is always able to get away with things you do but once you arrive in Hell, there is no way of escape.

1. You Can Escape Hell By Repenting And Believing In Jesus Christ.

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

John 3:16

And saying, the time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand: REPENT YE, AND BELIEVE THE GOSPEL.

Mark 1:15

Repenting "in time" is the emphasis. You can only repent and believe in Jesus Christ while you are alive on earth. When you are dead, it's too late for you to change your mind. All you have is TODAY to believe in the gospel of Jesus Christ, repent and be saved from Hell.

While it is said, today if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in the provocation.

Hebrews 3:15

2. You Can Escape Hell By Walking in Love and Practicing Forgiveness.

For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you: But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.

Mathew 6:14-15

Unforgiveness is one of the roads that lead men straight to Hell. When you find yourself on this wide road of unforgiveness, you are just hurling yourself towards the gates of Hell.

Enter ye in at the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and MANY THERE BE WHICH GO IN THEREIN: Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, AND FEW THERE BE THAT FIND IT.

Mathew 7:13-14

From this passage of scripture, we can clearly see that many find themselves on the broad-way that leads to destruction. Unforgiveness is one of such roads that lead to destruction and surprisingly MANY are on that road.

If you do not forgive people who have hurt you and you continue to keep grudges, hurts and bitterness, please understand that you are happily jogging with many others who are on the same road straight to Hell.

From the above scripture Mathew 6 verses 14-15, we understand that the only way we are forgiven, cleansed and made whole is when we practice forgiveness ourselves. This means that if you are still holding grudges, unforgiveness and bitterness, it means you are still in your sin and anyone who is still in sin is doomed to Hell if unrepentant.

For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Romans 6:23

3. You Can Escape Hell By Not Being Ignorant of The Way of Escape God Has Provided.

HOW SHALL WE ESCAPE, if we neglect so great salvation...

Hebrews 2:3

God has provided A WAY OF ESCAPE for man so that no one would perish and go to Hell. Being ignorant is being without the appropriate and necessary knowledge in a particular discourse. Ignorance of this WAY OF ESCAPE will obviously keep men and women bound unto the road that leads straight to Hell.

Ignorance is sending more people to Hell than we can imagine. Millions of people are serving false god's, practicing false religions, being deceived by the doctrines and the wisdom of men and do not just know that they are on the wrong path.

THERE IS A WAY WHICH SEEMETH RIGHT UNTO A MAN, but the ends thereof are the ways of death.

Proverbs 14:12

Nobody in their right minds would go to Hell if they really knew what it was all about. For most people, they want to serve God and go to Heaven but they are going about it in the wrong way. They are actually on the wrong road without knowing it just as Jesus Christ said.

Enter ye in at the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in there at: Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.

Mathew 7:13-14

The gate of Hell is described as Wide and the road leading to Hell is described as Broad. I believe it may be like a 1000 lanes road all leading to the destruction of Hell.

4. You Can Escape Hell By Not Neglecting The Way Of Escape God Has Provided.

How shall we escape, IF WE NEGLECT so great salvation, which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him!

Hebrews 2:3

To neglect is the Greek word "ameleo" which is translated as;

1. To make light of

2. To be careless of

3. To be negligent

4. To disregard

5. To trivialize

It is interesting to note that many people just joke about the reality of heaven and Hell. The scripture Hebrews 2:3 asks the question "how can we escape if we neglect so great a salvation?" Therefore, once we make light of this great salvation that the Heavenly Father has provided for all men through Jesus Christ our Lord, there is no escape; one is doomed to Hell. I have heard and seen so many people ridicule Jesus Christ as the saviour of humanity and the very existence of God the creator.

Many think such message of hope is only for the poor and those who cannot help themselves. Disregarding Jesus Christ and the salvation in His name is at your own peril. This same scenario is recorded in scriptures. God told Noah he was going to destroy the whole creation but would only provide a way of escape for Noah and his family through the Ark.

And GOD saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart. And the lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth, both man, and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air, for it repenteth me that I have made them. BUT NOAH FOUND GRACE IN THE EYES OF THE LORD.

These are the generations of Noah: Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God. And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence.

And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth. And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me, for the earth is filled with violence through them, and, behold, I will destroy them with the earth.

Make thee an ark of gopher wood, rooms shalt thou make in the ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch. And this is the fashion which thou shalt make it of: The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits.

A window shalt thou make to the ark, and in a cubit shalt thou finish it above, and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof, with lower, second, and third stories shalt thou make it. AND, BEHOLD, I, EVEN I, DO BRING A FLOOD OF WATERS UPON THE EARTH, TO DESTROY ALL FLESH, WHEREIN IS THE BREATH OF LIFE, FROM UNDER HEAVEN, AND EVERYTHING THAT IS IN THE EARTH SHALL DIE. But with thee will I establish my covenant, and thou shalt come into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives with thee.

Genesis 6:5-18

In this generation, the destruction of the earth would not be with water but with fire. The same way God the creator destroyed every living thing but provided a way of escape being the ARK for Noah and his family, so has God the creator provided a way of escape from Hell through Jesus Christ His Son. Jesus Christ is our ARK of salvation today!

While it is said, today if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in the provocation.

Hebrews 3:15

Today! As you have the opportunity, do not neglect the "ark of salvation" God has made available for you, your family and your friends. You can find favour in the sight of God the same way Noah found favour in the sight of God.

5. You Can Escape Hell By Being Born Again.

AGREE WITH THINE ADVERSARY QUICKLY, WHILES THOU ART IN THE WAY WITH HIM, lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison.

Mathew 5:25

This is the principle we call "Agree on the Way". It is better to agree with your enemy while you have the opportunity to before a decision is taken against you. Remember, the scriptures indicate clearly that every knee shall bow to Jesus Christ whether you like it or not.

You can agree to bow now and accept the Lordship of Jesus Christ with no pain and escape Hell or you will be forced to bow later and acknowledge that Jesus is the Son of God.

For it is written, AS I LIVE, SAITH THE LORD, EVERY KNEE SHALL BOW TO ME, AND EVERY TONGUE SHALL CONFESS TO GOD.

Romans 14:11

You can therefore escape Hell by applying the principle of "Agree on the way"; to accept to surrender to the Lordship of Jesus Christ and accept the salvation that comes through the saving grace of Jesus Christ of Nazareth.

To be Born Again is to be reconciled to God. To be born again is to have a relationship with the Heavenly Father through His Son Jesus Christ. So then how does one become "born again"?

Marvel not that I said unto thee, you must be born again.

John 3:7

Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.

John 3:5

To be born of water is to believe and accept what the word of God says concerning gaining entrance into the Kingdom of God. To be born of the Spirit is to yield yourself to the Holy Spirit so that the Holy Spirit will make your spirit alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord.

And you hath he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins, Wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. Among whom also we all had our conversation in times past in the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us even when we were dead in sins, HATH QUICKENED US TOGETHER WITH CHRIST, (by grace ye are saved). And hath raised us up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus.

Ephesians 2:1-6

The Holy Spirit is the quickening spirit that quickens our dead souls back unto God. To be born again is to be quickened together with Jesus Christ. So then how does it happen?

That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation.

Romans 10:9-10

6. You Can Escape Hell By Calling On The Name of The Lord Jesus Christ Out of A Genuine Heart.

And it shall come to pass, that WHOSOEVER SHALL CALL ON THE NAME OF THE LORD SHALL BE SAVED.

Acts 2:21

This is best narrated from the movie "the titanic", when the titanic ship eventually sunk, there were still many people alive floating with their life jackets, others were holding on to any floating object so they wouldn't sink into the freezing water.

The rescuers came with a rescue boat to rescue any survivors and the only way the survivors could get their attention was to call on them or make a sound to get their attention.

Similarly, the whole world is under condemnation and doomed to be destroyed. This is because of all the evil, the wickedness of man-kind and how humanity have forsaken the true and living God to follow after gods, inanimate objects and several abominations.

And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in wickedness. And we know that the Son of God is come, and hath given us an understanding, that we may know him that is true, and we are in him that is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God, and eternal life. Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen.

1 John 5:19-21

Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life.

John 5:24

We understand from the scriptures that this world is under judgment and is doomed to be condemned. So then the question is "will everyone be destroyed or condemned?" No! Everyone will not be condemned, whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ out of a genuine and sincere heart is deemed the righteousness of God through Jesus Christ and they shall be saved from the damnation. God will not destroy the righteous together with the wicked.

And Abraham drew near, and said, WILT THOU ALSO DESTROY THE RIGHTEOUS WITH THE WICKED? Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city: wilt thou also destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are therein? THAT BE FAR FROM THEE TO DO AFTER THIS MANNER, TO SLAY THE RIGHTEOUS WITH THE WICKED: and that the righteous should be as the wicked that be far from thee: Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?

Genesis 18:23-25

Friends, the only way to escape the damnation of Hell and the destruction of the whole world is to call on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.

And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved.

Acts 2:21

......with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart.

2 Timothy 2:22

Decide now, to genuinely repent of your sins, ask God for forgiveness, call on the name of Jesus Christ, and welcome the Lord Jesus Christ into your heart to be your Lord and personal saviour.

7. You Can Escape Hell By Doing The Will Of The Heavenly Father.

Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, BUT HE THAT DOETH THE WILL OF MY FATHER WHICH IS IN HEAVEN. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name have cast out devils? And in thy name done many wonderful works? And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity.

Mathew 7:21-23

It is interesting to know that your will, my will, his or her will is unimportant as the will of the Father in Heaven.

From the scriptures, we can understand that believing in Jesus Christ may not be enough but our obedience to the call and to the will of the Father in heaven must be the ultimate goal of every Christian.

What Is The Will Of The Father In Heaven?

The scriptures provide us with the answers as the guideline to knowing the will of God for our lives.

And be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God.

Romans 12:2

Then said I, Lo, I come in the volume of the book it is written of me, to do thy will, O God.

Hebrews 10:7

This scripture gives us a broader idea of the types of the will of God, there is;

a. The Good will of God

b. The Acceptable will of God

c. The Perfect will of God

d. The Written will of God concerning your life

The Good Will of God

The "good will of God" is the good and nice things that God would want all His children, servants and followers to be involved in and enjoying. Therefore living a good Christian life is being in the good will of God and we have so many examples of what the "good will" of God is from the scriptures.

I exhort therefore, that, first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks, be made for all men, for kings, and for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. FOR THIS IS GOOD and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour,

1Timothy 2:1-4

Examples of Practicing the Good Will of God.

• Offering prayers and supplications for kings.

• Offering intercessions for all men to be saved.

• Interceding for everyone in authority, for civil and public servants.

• Praying for a peaceable life in all godliness and honesty.

• Living a successful life and a prosperous Christian life, etc.

All these and many more references in the scriptures can be described as the good will of God.

The Acceptable Will of God

I exhort therefore, that, first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks, be made for all men, for kings, and for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. FOR THIS IS good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior.

1Timothy 2:1-3

The Good will of God can be included in the Acceptable will of God. I also believe that the acceptable will of God is what God allows or permits to happen though it is not HIS PERFECT will.

You can force yourself to settle for less or to do less for God when in fact there is a greater destiny God has for you in His perfect will. Choosing to remain just as a faithful Christian, church goer, paying your tithes, giving your offerings, and showing up for some meetings may not be the perfect will of God for your life.

God may want you to rise up and become a shepherd, a deacon, a pastor and a leader in His church. God may want you to be one of the main financiers of the gospel and for His Church projects.

God may want you to become a main pillar of support in the house of God or to become a faithful associate of His servants.

I believe many of God's children are in and have settled for the Acceptable Will of God. Many Christian sisters have settled for marriages and see that their ultimate contribution in the Kingdom of God is to be married and live a peaceable life with their husbands and children. NO!

Rise up and take your place in the ministry. Decide to press forward and get into the perfect will of God for your life. Phebe is one of such sisters in the early church who wasn't just pleased with the acceptable will of God, but played a major role in the ministry with Apostle Paul and the other labourers.

I commend unto you Phebe our sister, WHICH IS A SERVANT OF THE CHURCH WHICH IS AT CENCHREA: That ye receive her in the Lord, as becometh saints, and that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you: FOR SHE HATH BEEN A SUCCOURER OF MANY, AND OF MYSELF ALSO.

Romans 16:1-2

Sister Pricilla and her husband Mr Aquila did not also settle for the acceptable will of God by just being believers whom Apostle Paul converted. They rose up and became leaders in the Church. This couple became church planters by actually starting a church in their home.

GREET PRISCILLA AND AQUILA MY HELPERS IN CHRIST JESUS:Who have for my life laid down their own necks: unto whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles. LIKEWISE GREET THE CHURCH THAT IS IN THEIR HOUSE...

Romans 16:3-5

From these scriptures, we realize that Sister Pricilla and her husband Mr Aquila were great helpers to Apostle Paul. They made huge sacrifices for Apostle Paul, the brethren and also for the churches of the gentiles.

Rise up! Don't be lazy! Move ahead and press forward into the perfect will of God for your life. You will be surprised how the Lord will use you and how you will gain satisfaction from being in the perfect will of God for your life.

NOT SLOTHFUL IN BUSINESS, BE FERVENT IN SPIRIT, SERVING THE LORD.

Romans 12:11

Romans chapter 16 is a MUST READ for every Christian. It has a list of ordinary Christians and believers who did not settle for the Acceptable will of God but pressed on to attain the perfect will of God for their lives in actively serving the Lord.

Apostle Paul also decided to press forward to enter into the perfect will of God for His life and ministry and we must follow his example.

I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.

Philippians 3:14

The Perfect Will of God

Psalm 91 is not only dedicated to those who love the Lord, but a covenant blessing for those who are in the perfect will of God. Not many find themselves in the perfect will of God. There is a price to pay to be in the perfect will of God.

He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. I will say of the LORD, He is my refuge and my fortress: my God, in him will I trust. Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from the noisome pestilence. He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust: his truth shall be thy shield and buckler. Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night, nor for the arrow that flieth by day, nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness, nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday. A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand, but it shall not come nigh thee. Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked.

Because thou hast made the LORD, which is my refuge, even the most High, thy habitation, there shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling.

For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways. They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone. Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet.

Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver him: I will set him on high, because he hath known my name. He shall call upon me, and I will answer him: I will be with him in trouble, I will deliver him, and honour him. With long life will I satisfy him, and shew him my salvation.

Psalm 91:1-16

I say this again, there are rewards and blessings associated with loving the Lord and walking in His perfect will for our lives. This Psalm is dedicated only to those who are in the perfect will of God.

5 Ways To Be In The Perfect Will Of God

A. Seek the Kingdom of God and the Will of God first.

It is only those who are willing to put second their own desires, wants, dreams, visions, goals and ambitions to take up the responsibility of doing the will of God for their lives first that can be described as people who are in the perfect will of God.

Bishop Dag Heward Mills, founder and pastor of Lighthouse Chapel International Denomination of Churches as a medical doctor moved into the perfect will of God for His life when he answered to the call of God upon His life, laid down his medical profession and took up the ministry of our Lord Jesus Christ.

Bishop David Oyadepo, founder and pastor of Winners Chapel, a professional architect with a promising career entered into the perfect will of God for his life when he made a covenant with the Lord to seek first the kingdom of God and its righteousness.

Rev Chris Oyakilome, founder and pastor of Christ Embassy also a professional architect, laid down his will to pick up the perfect will of God for his life.

These and many more believers whose names may never be mentioned anywhere in this world decided to take up their cross; the responsibility, the demands and the sacrifices God has assigned to them and carry out the perfect will of God for their lives. It comes with a cost!

But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you.

Mathew 6:33

And he said to them all, If any man will come after me, LET HIM DENY HIMSELF, AND TAKE UP HIS CROSS DAILY, AND FOLLOW ME.

Luke 9:23

...saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done.

Luke 22:42

Our Lord Jesus Christ is the best example of someone who laid aside his desires, his goals, his ambitions, his dreams to take up the vision of the Heavenly Father for his life. He became the appropriation for the sins of the world by dying on the cross of Calvary.

I remember my own experience in 2008, when after a camp meeting with my father in ministry Bishop Dag Heward-Mills, I had an encounter with Jesus. As I was walking down the hill from commonwealth Hall in the university of Ghana-Legon, where the camp meeting was held, I remember weeping like a baby and in that moment I made a vow to God.

As a young man in my last year in the university, I made a covenant with the Lord Jesus Christ. I decided to give up my life, my future, my desires, my aims, my goals and my ambitions. I gave up my life and decided to take upon me His desires, His goals, His burden and His vision for my life.

Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.

Mathew 11:29-30

I left all with no glimpse in to the future just as the disciples said.

...then Peter began to say unto him, Lo, we have left all, and have followed thee.

Mark 10:28

And I am glad to inform you that God has not forsaken me, He has given me much more than I thought I gave up and I am blessed fully walking in the perfect will of God for my life.

My question to you is this "What has God told you to do? What is the strong conviction you have in your heart for the Lord? What promptings are you having from the Holy Spirit?" These may be God leading you into His perfect will of God for your life.

B. To be actively involved in the building of the Church.

And I say also unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hell shall not prevail against it.

Mathew 16:18

If we were to ask the question "what is Jesus Christ actively involved in now?" The answer is very simple; we understand from the scripture above that our Lord Jesus Christ is actively involved in the project of building His Church.

To be in the perfect will of God is to align yourself and actively get involved in the project of building of the Church of God. A Christian who wants to walk in the perfect will of God must be actively involved in the building of the church of Jesus Christ.

Find an active role to play in your church and be faithful in this task and responsibility. Use your talent, wisdom and your gifts to make the church work and be established.

The Prophet Hagai stresses the importance of every Christian being actively involved in building the house of God. Christians and believers who are not actively involved in the building of the church are under a curse. Please read it for yourself.

Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, saying, this people say, The time is not come, the time that the LORD'S house should be built. Then came the word of the LORD by Haggai the prophet, saying, IS IT TIME FOR YOU, O YE, TO DWELL IN YOUR CEILED HOUSES, AND THIS

HOUSE LIE WASTE? Now therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, consider your ways. Ye have sown much, and bring in little, ye eat, but ye have not enough, ye drink, but ye are not filled with drink, ye clothe you, but there is none warm, and he that earneth wages earneth wages to put it into a bag with holes. Thus saith the LORD of hosts, consider your ways. GO UP TO THE MOUNTAIN, AND BRINGWOOD, AND BUILD THE HOUSE, AND I WILL TAKE PLEASURE IN IT, AND I WILL BE GLORIFIED, SAITH THE LORD. Ye looked for much, and, lo, it came to little, and when ye brought it home, I did blow upon it.

Why? saith the LORD of hosts. Because of mine house that is waste, and ye run every man unto his own house. THEREFORE THE HEAVEN OVER YOU IS STAYED FROM DEW, AND THE EARTH IS STAYED FROM HER FRUIT.

Haggai 1:2-10

Christians, as followers of our Lord Jesus Christ must be conscious of the fact that Jesus Christ is currently and actively involved in building His Church and it is only wise for His followers to join Him in this project. By joining the church workforce, you find yourself in the perfect will of God.

C. To be in the perfect will of God is to be an obedient Servant of God.

While he yet spake, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them: and behold a voice out of the cloud, which said, THIS IS MY BELOVED SON, IN WHOM I AM WELL PLEASED, HEAR YE HIM.

Mathew 17:5

AND THE LORD SHALL GUIDE THEE CONTINUALLY, and satisfy thy soul in drought, and make fat thy bones: and thou shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters fail not.

Isaiah 58:11

And it shall come to pass, IF THOU SHALT HEARKEN DILIGENTLY UNTO THE VOICE OF THE LORD THY GOD, TO OBSERVE AND TO DO ALL HIS COMMANDMENTS WHICH I COMMAND THEE this day, that the LORD thy God will set thee on high above all nations of the earth:

Deuteronomy 28:1

For as many as ARE LED BY THE SPIRIT OF GOD, they are the sons of God.

Romans 8:14

Neither pray I for these alone, BUT FOR THEM ALSO WHICH SHALL BELIEVE ON ME THROUGH THEIR WORD,

John 17:20

Remember the word that I said unto you, The servant is not greater than his lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you, IF THEY HAVE KEPT MY SAYING, THEY WILL KEEP YOURS ALSO.

John 15:20

Firstly, to hear and to obey the words of Jesus Christ is to walk in the perfect will of God. Why do I say that? In Mathew 17 verses 5, our Lord Jesus Christ was authenticated and a seal of approval was set on Him by God the Father.

Therefore WHOSOEVER HEARETH THESE SAYINGS OF MINE, AND DOETH THEM, I WILL LIKEN HIM UNTO A WISE MAN, which built his house upon a rock.

Mathew 7:24

Secondly, the Holy Spirit is the one who lives with and in every born again Christian. One of His functions is to guide us into the perfect will of God in everything that we do. The wisdom is to yield ourselves to Him and learn to discern His voice, promptings and direction. If we listen to the Holy Spirit and allow Him to guide us, we will walk in the perfect will of God.

Thirdly, by listening to and obeying the instructions of the servants of God with the scriptures being our verifying tool can lead a believer into the perfect will of God. Please understand that every instruction meted out by a servant of God or a man of God must be confirmed through the scriptures and must not lead you away from the direction of the scriptures.

If what a preacher is saying is not and cannot be confirmed from the scriptures, please DO NOT FOLLOW BLINDLY AND DO NOT OBEY. The Holy Scriptures is the guideline and the safety tool for every believer.

And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.

John 8:32

Apostle Paul admonished the Corinthian Church to follow Him only when he was following Christ. This is the safety line when it comes to listening to and following men and women of God. Whatever is said or done must be judged from the scriptures to validate its authenticity.

Be ye followers of me, even as I also am of Christ.

1Corinthians 11:1

D. To be in the perfect will of God is to fulfil the call of God upon your Life; to become a profitable Christian.

What has God called you to become? What is He expecting you to do with the talents and the various gifts He has given to you? Using His gifts and His talents for His glory is to be in the perfect will of God.

I have seen so many people walk out of the perfect will of God. Many have used the blessing and the gift that God gave them to worship the devil, this is especially so in the music industry.

Many Christians have compromised and conformed to the standards of this world. We only seek for the approval and the fame of this world while neglecting the main reason why God has given us his talents.

For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?

Mark 8:36

You need to discover what the call of God on your life is. What specific duty God has for you and align yourself to accomplish it. In so doing, you will find yourself in the perfect will of God for your life.

For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them.

Ephesians 2:10

Every one of God's creation has a specific duty and a function to perform for which it was created and designed. Just as every manufacturer's product is designed for fulfil a need, so you have been created to fulfil a specific need. It is our duty to discover what our calling is or what specific need we have to fulfil.

Peter the Apostle was given a mission and a vision for his life, to catch men for the kingdom of God. Though Peter was a very good, profitable and experienced fisherman, the Lord had a better vision for His life.

And so was James, and John, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not, from henceforth thou shalt catch men.

Luke 5:10

Bezaleel was given the task to be the engineer and the crafts- man to build up the temple of God. He wasn't called as a priest, he was called as a builder and anointed to fulfil his role in building the temple of God.

And Moses said unto the children of Israel, See, the LORD hath called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, And he hath filled him with the spirit of God, in wisdom, in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship, And to devise curious works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, And in the cutting of stones, to set them, and in carving of wood, to make any manner of cunning work. And he hath put in his heart that he may teach, both he, and Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan. Them hath he filled with wisdom of heart, to work all manner of work, of the engraver, and of the cunning workman, and of the embroiderer, in blue, and in purple, in scarlet, and in fine linen, and of the weaver, even of them that do any work, and of those that devise cunning work.

Exodus 35:30-35

Gideon from Judges 6 became a leader of the nation of Israel. He wasn't a priest but he fulfilled the perfect will of God for his life. Please understand that you have to find out what your calling is so that you can fulfil it.

Apostle Paul warned brother Archippus to make sure he fulfilled the call of God upon his life and the ministry.

And say to Archippus, TAKE HEED TO THE MINISTRY WHICH THOU HAST RECEIVED IN THE LORD, THAT THOU FULFIL IT.

Colossians 4:17

The need to become a fruitful and profitable Christian is a MUST for every Christian. You have to be a useful Christian to God and the only way is to find out what He wants you to do or what He has for you and make sure you fulfil it.

E. To be in the perfect will of God is to be available for every good work the Lord has for you to do.

That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, BEING FRUITFUL IN EVERY GOOD WORK, and increasing in the knowledge of God.

Colossians 1:10

If a man therefore purges himself from these, he shall be a vessel unto honour, sanctified, and meet for the master's use, and PREPARED UNTO EVERY GOOD WORK.

2 Timothy 2:21

MAKE YOU PERFECT IN EVERY GOOD WORK TO DO HIS WILL, working in you that which is well-pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.

Hebrews 13:21

As a Christian, you must be ready and be prepared at any time for the Master's use. This is one of the qualities missing among Christians. Like our Lord Jesus said in Luke 10, many Christians have become anxious and troubled about so many things and are left with no energy or desire to fulfil the call of God on his or her life.

But the Lord answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art anxious and troubled about many things. But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her.

Luke 10:41-42

Most Christians, because of this anxiety and the many things we worry about, have forgotten and forsaken our relationship with God and the responsibility that God has placed upon our lives. We find ourselves nowhere near the perfect will of God for their lives.

Apostle Mark calls it the "cares of this world". This can also be interpreted as the responsibilities, the pressures and the necessities of this life that causes a Christian to become unfruitful and unprofitable.

And the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lusts of other things entering in, choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful.

Mark 4:19

God has a business at hand. God has a job at hand. The Father has a business he is running, and any of his children who is ready to be involved in this good work of building of the Church will find themselves in the Fathers perfect will.

To be always available and always ready to do the will of God makes you a mature Christian ready to stand in the perfect will of God. You may have so many talents or gifts but your usefulness is dependent on your availability and your willingness to do any good work God has for you.

8. **You Can Escape Hell By Being Washed By The Blood Of Jesus Christ.**

And I said unto him, Sir, thou knowest. And he said to me, these are they which came out of great tribulation, AND HAVE WASHED THEIR ROBES, AND MADE THEM WHITE IN THE BLOOD OF THE LAMB.

Revelations7:14

Why did Jesus die on the cross of Calvary and shed his blood? Why is the blood of Jesus so powerful? And how does the blood of Jesus save me from Hell?

a. The blood of Jesus Christ ushers us into the New Testament.

In the New Testament, it is possible to be born-again, to be regenerated, to be changed and saved. In the New Testament we don't need the blood of animals to cleanse us from our sins as the Old Testament required. The blood of Jesus ushers us into a New and Better Covenant.

For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins.

Mathew 26:28

b. The blood of Jesus Christ was shed on the Cross of Calvary for the remission of the Sins of the whole world.

The word "remission" can be described in the following ways;

•Freedom from something

•Receiving pardon

•Deliverance from something

•Forgiveness from something

•To be liberated from something

The blood of Jesus Christ is the only thing that has the power and the ability to forgive the human race of our sins. It is only the blood of Jesus Christ that is able to bring deliverance and freedom from the power of Sin.

For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins.

Mathew 26:28 3

c. Through the blood of Jesus Christ, we are made the righteousness of God.

For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him.

2 Corinthians 5:21

The blood of Jesus Christ has in it the power to make anyone righteous. It is a reality and no secret that as human beings, we are all full of sin, faults, mistakes, wickedness, etc. but we can be made righteous only through the blood of Jesus Christ shed on the cross of Calvary.

d. Through the blood of Jesus we can come boldly unto the throne of Grace.

Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need.

Hebrews 4:16

In the Old Testament, it was only the high priest who had the privilege of entering into the holies of holies where the mercy seat of God was. In the New Testament, through the blood of Jesus Christ, every believer has the right and privilege to go before the Heavenly Father and make their petitions known. The blood of Jesus Christ gives us access to heaven.

e. Redemption and Salvation is only possible through the blood of Jesus.

In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace.

Ephesians 1:7

The blood of Jesus Christ is able to redeem the worst sinner and the condemned prisoner into eternal life. Our sins are forgiven once we plead for forgiveness through the blood of Jesus Christ.

If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.

1 John 1:9-10

The question then is, how is the Father going to forgive us of our sins? Our heavenly Father forgives us of our faults, sins and mistakes once we acknowledge that we have indeed sinned and ask to be made whole again through the blood of Jesus Christ.

9. You Can Escape Hell By Renouncing Your Allegiance To Satan And Turning To Serve The Living God.

Everyone has the power of choice! We have the right to choose, the right to belong and the right to refrain amongst many other rights. To choose to believe in God and serve the living God is a choice one has to make. Please understand there is no grey area when it comes to Heaven or Hell, Jesus Christ or Satan!

When Paul, and Silvanus, and Timotheus took the gospel of Jesus Christ to the Thessalonians in Thessalonica, the people over there had a choice to make, whether to believe in the gospel of Jesus Christ, repent and be born-again or to reject the gospel of Jesus Christ and continue serving Satan through their idols.

For they themselves shew of us what manner of entering in we had unto you, and HOW YE TURNED TO GOD FROM IDOLS TO SERVE THE LIVING AND TRUE GOD.

1Thessalonians 1:9

Today, millions of people world-wide have the same choice to make. The choice to renounce their allegiance to Satan by not serving or participating in idols, false religions, the doctrines of men, cult's etc. or the choice to serve the living and true God through Jesus Christ His son.

Hell is real and therefore we must make every possible effort to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ and salvation from Hell. The least we can do is to make people aware so that they would make a choice to serve the true and living God and not die and end up in Hell through their ignorance.

10. You Can Escape Hell By Not Forgetting God.

The wicked shall be turned into Hell, and all the nations that forget God.

Psalm 9:17

Have you forgotten about God in your life? Are you living a life not bothering about whom God is or His importance in your life? Many successful people and rich nations have forsaken God and have totally forgotten about God.

Most people are actually fighting against the Church, which is the institution of God. It seems that riches mislead people and make people forsake God. Our Lord Jesus Christ said it was very difficult for those who are rich to enter into eternal life.

Then said Jesus unto his disciples, Verily I say unto you, that a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven.

Mathew 19:23

Further on, our Lord Jesus Christ told us about a rich man who forgot about God and ended up in Hell.

There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day: And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of sores, And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table: moreover the dogs came and licked his sores.

And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom: the rich man also died, and was buried, AND IN HELL HE LIFT UP HIS EYES, BEING IN TORMENTS, AND SEETH ABRAHAM AFAR OFF, AND LAZARUS IN HIS BOSOM.

Luke16:19-23

At least, we know that there is one rich man in Hell. Understand that there is nothing wrong with being wealthy, by the grace of God, I am rich and not poor at all. Riches become a challenge and a hindrance when it leads a person to forget God.

And he spake a parable unto them, saying, the ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully: And he thought within himself, saying, what shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow my fruits? And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my barns, and build greater, and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods.

And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years, take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee: then whose shall those things be, which thou hast provided? SO IS HE THAT LAYETH UP TREASURE FOR HIMSELF, AND IS NOT RICH TOWARD GOD.

Luke 12:16-21

King Solomon of ancient history was the richest man ever to live, advised young people not to forget their God and remember Him in the days of their youth.

Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them,

Ecclesiastics12:1

Apostle Paul also advised rich people not to be high-minded nor trust in their riches but to trust and commit themselves to the living God.

Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high- minded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy.

1Timothy 6:17

As you read this book, make sure you have not forgotten about the living God being pre-occupied with your own desires, goals, ambitions, visions or your desire to get or create wealth.

Remember,

The wicked shall be turned into Hell, AND ALL THE NATIONS THAT FORGET GOD.

Psalm 9:17
Chapter 4

The Urgency In Preaching of The Gospel of Salvation

For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of: FOR NECESSITY IS LAID UPON ME, YEA WOE IS UNTO ME, IF I PREACH NOT THE GOSPEL!

1Corinthians 9:16

Has necessity been laid on you as a true follower of Jesus Christ to preach the gospel of salvation? This question is not addressed only to preachers, it is addressed to every ordinary Christian.

The word "necessity" as mentioned in the above scripture is the Greek word "anagke" which is translated as;

1. Constraint.

2. Distress.

3. Necessary need.

4. Restlessness.

5. Burden

It is also important to note carefully what the Apostle Paul said in the above mentioned scripture. He implied that the type of constraint laid on him was the burden to preach the gospel. Now what type of gospel is he referring to in this scripture?

I believe he was referring to the gospel of salvation, the gospel that announces the salvation that is in Christ Jesus the Son of God.

For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men, teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world, Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ. Who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works. These things speak, and exhort, and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee.

Titus 2:11-15

This is the gospel of salvation, this is the burden that was laid upon the Apostle Paul. Apostle Paul in his rebuke of the Galatian church was marveled as to how they were so quickly removed from the true gospel of salvation to other gospels.

Grace be to you and peace from God the Father, and from our Lord Jesus Christ, Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from this present evil world, according to the will of God and our Father: To whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel: Which is not another, but there be some that trouble you, and would pervert the gospel of Christ.

But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. As we said before, so say I now again, If any man preach any other gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed.

For do I now persuade men, or God? Or do I seek to please men? For if I yet pleased men, I should not be the servant of Christ. But I certify you, brethren that the gospel which was preached of me is not after man. For I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ.

Galatians 1:3-12

Friend, pastor and preacher, which gospel are you preaching? The necessity that is laid on you and the calling that you have received, what gospel is it causing you to preach? Apostle Paul strongly asserted that if any other person preaches any other gospel other than the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed.

The first effect of the preaching of other gospels apart from the gospel of salvation in Jesus Christ is the removal and the disassociation of the souls of men from the saviour Jesus Christ to the damnation of Hell.

Secondly, the preaching of other gospels only results in the "troubling" of the faith of Christians. This has resulted in the shipwrecking of the faith of most believers.

Holding faith, and a good conscience, which some having put away concerning faith have made shipwreck:

1Timothy 1:19

Thirdly, the preaching of other gospels other than the true gospel of Jesus Christ leads to the perverting the gospel of Christ. The gospel of salvation is the helmet and the safety gear protecting every Christian for the redemption that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.

Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.

And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God.

Ephesians 6:13-17

The necessity and the burden that should be laid on every Christian is the urgency in preaching of the gospel of salvation. Souls are parting to Hell and we can redeem them with the true gospel of salvation!

I learnt the life changing song from my father in ministry Bishop Dag Heward-Mills and it always ministers to me the urgency in preaching of the gospel of salvation.

Souls are parting, to eternity,

Souls are parting to eternity,

Souls will part, as the days go by,

How many really, will die in Christ? How many really, will live again?

Just look around you and see the souls that part each day!

God's salvation and the blood of Jesus,

Was shed for them, that they might me saved!

Do you care, for their souls? Do you care, for their souls?
Chapter 5

The Greater Love of Jesus Christ

Greater love hath no man than this that a man lay down his life for his friends.

John 15:13

Greater love I believe is;

1. The expression of a higher type of love

2. The expression of a love beyond understanding

3. The expression of love without bounds

4. The expression of love greater than the love of a man

5. The expression of love not limited by death.

6. Greater love can be expressed when you can love people who are not your own.

7. Greater love can be expressed when you are able to love people outside your family unit, racial group, nationality or any other functionality.

Our Heavenly Father expressed his greater love towards the human race by making provision and a way by which we can be saved from destruction and be reconciled unto Him through Jesus Christ our Lord.

But God commended his love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.

Romans 5:8

I believe it's very easy to love someone who you like, but to show love or express your unconditional love towards someone who has greatly hurt you and taken sides against you is a very difficult one.

This is the position we put the Heavenly Father into, having rejected Him and choosing evil over good. God had to express his greater love towards us while we were still living in sin by sending his precious only Son Jesus Christ to pay the price of reconciliation by shedding His blood as payment for the sin of the whole world.

Whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past, through the forbearance of God,

Romans 3:25

16 Powerful Expressions of the Greater Love of Jesus

1. The Greater Love Of Jesus Christ Was Expressed When Jesus Willingly Laid Down His Life For The Whole Human Race To Be Saved And Reconciled Back To Our Heavenly Father.

No man taketh it from me, BUT I LAY IT DOWN OF MYSELF. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father.

John 10:18

The willingness to lay down his life for a sinful and an ungrateful race is confounding.

For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die: yet peradventure for a good man some would even dare to die. But God commended his love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.

Much more then, being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life.

Romans 5:6-10

2. The Greater Love Of Jesus Is Able To Change A Hardened Sinner To Become A Friend Of God.

Greater love hath no man than this that a man lay down his life for his friends.

John 15:13

Indeed, when Jesus Christ was laying down his life, he wasn't doing it to save his friends, He was laying down His life to save a sinful world heading towards destruction and Hell. The scriptures tell us that there is none righteous, not even one of us.

As it is written, There is none righteous, no, not one.

Romans 3:10

This concludes that no matter how condemned a person may be, he can be delivered from destruction and Hell when he accepts the salvation that comes through the shedding of the blood of Jesus.

Again, when the wicked man turneth away from his wicked- ness that he hath committed, and doeth that which is lawful and right, he shall save his soul alive. Because he considereth, and turneth away from all his transgressions that he hath committed, he shall surely live, he shall not die.

Ezekiel 18:27-28

Isn't it amazing? It is only the Greater love of Jesus that is able to turn a wicked person into a righteous person before God and finally for this person to be called a friend of God.

3. The Greater Love Of Jesus Brings People Who Were Once Afar Off Closer To God.

But now in Christ Jesus ye who sometime were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ.

Ephesians 2:13

Sin is what separates us from our Heavenly Father, this is because the whole world lies in Sin and wickedness. We have all fallen short and cannot have a relationship with our Heavenly Father except for the greater love of Jesus.

From Ephesians 2:13, we understand that non- Jews also referred to us Gentiles who had no hope of redemption or any hope of a relationship with the true and living God have had the privilege and also gained the right to be grafted into the family of God through the greater love of Jesus.

And again he saith, rejoice, ye gentiles, with his people. And again, praise the lord, all ye gentiles, and laud him, all ye people. And again, Esaias saith, there shall be a root of Jesse, and he that shall rise to reign over the gentiles, in him shall the gentiles trust.

Romans 15:10-12

Now, through the greater love of Jesus Christ, gentiles and Jews are collectively called His people. We who are called gentiles trust in the Lord Jesus Christ to bring us closer to the Heavenly Father.

4. The Greater Love of Jesus Makes Ordinary Believers Eligible as God's Choice Vessels.

Ye did not choose me, but I chose you, and appointed you, that ye should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should abide: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you.

John 15:16

Apart from being saved, we have also become eligible for God to use us. The greater love of Jesus chooses us and allows us to become vessels God can use to bring forth fruits into His kingdom.

Now in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of earth, and some unto honour, and some unto dishonour. If a man therefore purge himself from these, he shall be a vessel unto honour, sanctified, meet for the master's use, prepared unto every good work.

2 Timothy 2:20-21

Through the greater love of Jesus;

a. We can become vessels unto God's honorable use

b. We can become sanctified vessels in whom the Holy Spirit dwells

c. We can become ready vessels for God to use

d. We can be trained and prepared unto every good work God has for us to do.

5. Through The Greater Love Of Jesus, The Body Of A Christian Can Become The Temple Of God.

Is it really possible for God to come and live inside a person? Yes it is! This is one of the rarest privileges and right the greater love of Jesus Christ gives to every believer. You can become a home and the dwelling place of the spirit of God, He can live inside you and be with you.

Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?

1Corinthians 3:16

6. Through The Greater Love Of Jesus, A Christian Can Become An Anointed Minister Of God.

How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power: who went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed of the devil, for God was with him.

Acts 10:38

The word "anointed" in the scripture above is the Greek word "chrio" which means;

1. To be consecrated to an office

2. To be rubbed

3. To be smeared

4. To be made able

5. To be given the ability to do things

Thus a Christian can be smeared with something called the anointing, which is the Holy Spirit and the power of God. An ordinary Christian can move into another dimension of his or her Christian life. To become an anointed minister of God is to be consecrated for God's work and service.

Any ordinary Christian can rise up in the power and wisdom of God and perform certain tasks or achieve outstanding results in the work of the ministry.

But the anointing which ye have received of him abideth in you, and ye need not that any man teach you: but as the same anointing teacheth you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie, and even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him.

1John 2:27

The anointing of God makes an ordinary Christian a carrier or God's special power, ability and treasurers.

But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God, and not of us.

2Corinthians 4:7

All this is possible because of the Greater love of Jesus Christ, He has given us access and grace to carry God's presence and the power of God to accomplish great things for God

But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth.

Acts 1:8

7. The Greater Love Of Jesus Christ Makes God Choose To Walk, Work And Live In A Christian.

What is man, that thou shouldest magnify him? And that thou shouldest set thine heart upon him?

Job 7:17

What is man, that he should be clean? And he which is born of a woman, that he should be righteous?

Job 15:14

What is man, that thou art mindful of him? And the son of man, that thou visitest him?

Psalm 8:4

LORD, what is man, that thou takest knowledge of him! Or the son of man, that thou makest account of him!

Psalm 144:3

And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God, as God hath said, I will dwell in them, and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.

2 Corinthians 6:16

What exactly is the value of man if God decides to neglect him? Why should God, the creator of the Heavens and the earth be so interested in a man who is corrupt and full of wickedness.

Remember it takes the Greater love of Jesus for God to love condemned souls like humans. Throughout the above scriptures, we can clearly see that man is not as valuable as we may think. In Isaiah 2 verse 22, the scripture describes human life as a breath in their nostrils.

Stop trusting in human beings, whose life's breath is in their nostrils. For why should they be given special consideration?

Isaiah 2:22

The question is why God should be concerned about the souls of men? I believe the right response is that we are His creation even if we have backslidden and we are living in wickedness.

Therefore, God has provided a means by which all humans will be reconciled back to him. It will be very painful and useless for man to die and go to Hell while our Heavenly Father has made a way for man to come back to Him and escape destruction and Hell.

Through the Greater love of Jesus Christ, not only are we reconciled back to God, we have the rarest privilege for God to come and live inside us.

...for ye are the temple of the living God, AS GOD HATH SAID,I WILLDWELL IN THEM, AND WALKIN THEM, AND I WILL BE THEIR GOD, AND THEY SHALL BE MY PEOPLE.

2 Corinthians 6:16

Can you imagine God living inside you? Through the Greater love of Jesus, we are made special vessels to carry the anointing, the presence of God and the treasures of God.

But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God, and not of us.

2 Corinthians 4:7

8. Through The Greater Love Of Jesus Christ, Christians Are Ordained Unto God As Kings And Priests.

And hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father, to him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.

Revelations 1:6

Sinful men and women can be transformed into priests and servants of God. The hardest criminal and the most condemned criminal can totally be saved and transformed in to a King and a Priest.

Apostle Paul is one of the great testimonies of reformation and transformation.

Who was before A BLASPHEMER, AND A PERSECUTOR, AND INJURIOUS: but I obtained mercy, because I did it ignorantly in unbelief.

1Timothy 1:13

This is the type of person Apostle Paul was but he obtained mercy through the greater love of Jesus Christ.

The Prophet Amos was a herdsman and a gatherer of fruits but through the mercy and the Greater love of God, He was transformed and had the privilege of becoming a Prophet and a Priest unto God.

Then answered Amos, and said to Amaziah, I was no prophet, neither was I a prophet's son, BUT I WAS AN HERDMAN, AND A GATHERER OF SYCOMORE FRUIT.

Amos 7:14

King David from ancient history was not born in the palace, His father was not the King neither was King David in any kingship lineage. King David grew up as a forgotten son, spending his teenage life in the deserts, tending his father's flock.

King David was a shepherd and a forgotten son but through the Greater love of God, he obtained great mercy and was anointed and became the King of the entire nation of Israel.

Now therefore so shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, I TOOK THEE FROM THE SHEEPCOTE, FROM FOLLOWING THE SHEEP, TO BE RULER OVER MY PEOPLE, OVER ISRAEL.

2 Samuel 7:8

Through the mercy of the Greater love of Jesus, we who are the nonentities of this world can be chosen and given the privilege to become Kings and Priests unto our God.

But GOD HATH CHOSEN THE FOOLISH THINGS OF THE WORLD TO CONFOUND THE WISE, and GOD HATH CHOSEN THE WEAK THINGS OF THE WORLD TO CONFOUND THE THINGS WHICH ARE MIGHTY...

1 Corinthians 1:27

God specializes in selecting people who are despised and are regarded as nothing in this world and he promotes them and sets them on high places, this is the manifestation of the Greater love of Jesus Christ.

9. The Greater Love Of Jesus Christ Gives Every Christian The Opportunity To Become Fruitful And Profitable.

And so he that had received five talents came and BROUGHT OTHER FIVE TALENTS, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents: BEHOLD, I HAVE GAINED BESIDE THEM FIVE TALENTS MORE. His lord said unto him, well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.

Mathew 25:20-21

Through the greater love of Jesus Christ, every believer has the opportunity to become a fruitful and a profitable Christian. God gives us several opportunities to demonstrate faithfulness and fruitfulness in His work.

Please remember that once you are saved, you belong to a sheepfold, a church and a ministry. The next thing to do is to grow up and develop yourself in Christ and take up the responsibility of the ministry. Jesus Christ has told every Christian to be busy with His work and the responsibility that He has given them to do till He returns.

And he called his ten servants, and delivered them ten pounds, AND SAID UNTO THEM, OCCUPY TILL I COME.

Luke 19:13

Jesus Christ our Lord has given every believer and every servant of God a responsibility and a duty to perform till He returns.

10. The Greater Love Of Jesus Christ Gives Every Christian Power, Authority And Dominion Over Satan, Demons And Devils.

Behold, I GIVE UNTO YOU POWER to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy: and nothing shall by any means hurt you.

Luke 10:19

Every believer has been given power and dominion over Satan and his demons and devils. Serpents and scorpions are different ranks of demonic powers and the privilege is that we as Christians have the power, the right and the authority to trample over all the power of Satan.

Notwithstanding in this rejoice not, THAT THE SPIRITS ARE SUBJECT UNTO YOU, but rather rejoice, because your names are written in heaven.

Luke 10:20

Through the greater love of Jesus Christ, spirits and demons are subject to every believer through our revelation knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.

11. Through The Greater Love Of Jesus Christ, Every Believer Has The Opportunity To Receive The Gift Of The Holy Spirit.

Then Peter said unto them, repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, AND YE SHALL RECEIVE THE GIFT OF THE HOLY SPIRIT.

Acts 2:38

The Holy Spirit is God's gift to every Christian; He is the seal of approval on every true Christian. Our Lord Jesus Christ said that He wouldn't leave any believer comfortless but will send forth the Holy Spirit who will play the same role as Jesus would but in a more efficient way.

Our Lord Jesus Christ was born of a woman and lived amongst us as a person and therefore He had all the limitations of every one of us. This is especially demonstrated in His ability to be in one place at a specific time. The Holy Spirit on the other hand who is also called the Spirit of Jesus Christ is able to overcome certain human deficiencies.

The Holy Spirit has the following abilities just to mention a few;

  1. The ability to live inside every truly born-again Christian.

Even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him, for He dwelleth with you, AND SHALL BE IN YOU.

John 14:17

b. The ability to live with every truly born-again Christian.

Even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him, FOR HE DWELLETH WITH YOU, and shall be in you.

John 14:17

c. The ability to be upon every truly born-again Christian.

THE SPIRIT OF THE LORD IS UPON ME, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor, he hath sent me to heal the broken- hearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised.

Luke 4:18

d. The ability to be everywhere at the same time.

And it shall come to pass afterward, THAT I WILL POUR OUT MY SPIRIT UPON ALL FLESH, and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions.

Joel 2:28

The Holy Spirit is everywhere on this planet and can manifest Himself in every country and amongst every people. He is omniscient.

e. The ability to manifest the Lord Jesus Christ everywhere.

Go ye therefore, and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them into the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit: Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I commanded you: AND LO, I AM WITH YOU ALWAYS, EVEN UNTO THE END OF THE WORLD.

Mathew 28:19-20

He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself unto him.

John 14:21

This is one of the rarest opportunities every believer thus to be able to know the presence of Jesus Christ our Lord. And this is possible because the Holy Spirit reveals Jesus to every true believer.

As Jesus told His disciples in Mathew 28:19-20 "I will always be with you even unto the end of the world" he has therefore confirmed His manifest presence to every true Christian, and this is possible through the Holy Spirit.

Every believer must be assured of a true and living relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ through the Holy Spirit. To the world, Jesus Christ doesn't exist anymore, but to every believer, we know that Jesus Christ is alive by His manifest presence through the Holy Spirit.

12. Through The Greater Love Of Jesus, A Christian Can Fulfil The Call Of God Upon His Life.

Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect: but I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus. Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended: but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.

Philippians 3:12-14

13. Through The Greater Love Of Jesus, Christians Are Able To Reciprocate His Love.

Whom having not seen, ye love, in whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory.

1 Peter 1:8

Christians all over the world who are truly born-again are able to love the Lord and saviour Jesus Christ. Though we may have not physically seen Him, yet we love Him and millions of Christians have really set out their hearts to accomplish great things in the name of Jesus Christ and for the glory of the saviour Jesus Christ.

The Lord Jesus Christ Himself has not written any book but through the Holy Spirit millions of books and literatures have been written over centuries to the praise and glory of Jesus Christ.

The writer of the book of Romans asks the question "Who shall separate us from the love of Christ?"

WHO SHALL SEPARATE US FROM THE LOVE OF CHRIST? Shall

tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword? As it is written, for thy sake we are killed all the day long, we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter. Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.

Romans 8:35-39

We therefore realize that through the Greater love of Jesus Christ which is demonstrated on the Cross of Calvary, believers all over the world are able to reciprocate this love. We choose to go through various trials, distresses, tribulations, discomforts, and so many sacrifices just to please Jesus Christ and to demonstrate their love for Him.

Missionaries leave their home country and travel to far lands not to seek fortune but to share the gospel of Jesus Christ. Many have died and have had terrible tragedies in the mission field but many are still willing to do and die for the love of Jesus Christ.

Millions of Christians all over the world make voluntary contributions whether big or small to churches and institutions established to help demonstrate the love of Jesus Christ to other people all over the world.

Indeed, our Lord Jesus Christ willingly gave up His life to gain more willing lives. Today, how are you demonstrating your love for Jesus Christ? What can you do to show that you appreciate this glorious salvation and eternal life you have only because of the love Jesus Christ was demonstrated for you?

14. Through The Greater Love Of Jesus, Every Christian Can Await His Return.

IF IN THIS LIFE ONLY WE HAVE HOPE IN CHRIST, WE ARE OF ALL

MEN MOST MISERABLE. But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the first-fruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, EVEN SO IN CHRIST SHALL ALL BE MADE ALIVE. But every man in his own order: Christ the first fruits, afterward they that are Christ's at his coming.

1Corinthians 15:19-23

As Christians, we have a blessed hope of salvation, where our Lord, saviour and Master Jesus Christ would come back and take us unto Himself.

This is the blessed hope of every believer, the hope and faith to escape the destruction of this wicked world and to ascend into heaven to have eternal life with God the Father. We know from the scriptures that God will not destroy the righteous with the wicked.

That be far from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked: and that the righteous should be as the wicked that be far from thee....

Genesis 18:25

We are also aware that as Christians, we are the righteousness of God in Christ Jesus.

But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption:

1Corinthians 1:30

For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him.

2 Corinthians 5:21

And be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith:

Philippians 3:9

Through the Greater love of Jesus Christ, we have a blessed hope that upon the return of Jesus Christ, we who are found in Him will escape the destruction, the punishment and the judgment of this world and all who live in it.

15. Through The Greater Love Of Jesus, Christians Are Victorious Over Death.

Behold, I shew you a mystery, we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump: for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?

1 Corinthians15:51-55

Life on earth concludes with death. One is born to die at a point, that's the reality of life. Through science and technology, man has been able to diagnose more accurately diseases and sicknesses and even in most advanced countries, they have been able to develop medication and systems that is able to prolong and keep people alive but only for a while.

It is only in Christ that we describe the process of death as the process of being changed from one form to another.

Behold, I shew you a mystery, we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed,

1Corinthians 15:51

To the believer, we are changed; we leave this corrupt body and put on an incorruptible one. This body of ours is prone to so many deficiencies and problems and can only survive on earth.

When the last trumpet sounds, for the trumpet shall sound, Christians who have died will be raised as the scriptures tell us and for those who are still alive when the last trumpet sounds they will be instantly changed from their earthly body to an incorruptible body.

Therefore, for the Christian, death is not the end of life! We have a better life ahead of us in eternity with our Lord Jesus Christ.

As the scripture rightly said "DEATH IS SWALLOWED UP IN VICTORY". And this is the privilege and the blessed hope we have as believers.

16. Through The Greater Love Of Jesus Christ, Christians Can Be Changed From Glory To Glory.

But we all (Christians), with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the spirit of the lord.

1Corinthians 3:18

This is not just a theory! A born-again Christian is someone who is being worked on and continuously being changed from glory to glory by the Holy Spirit.

When you boldly confirm that you are a Christian, many unbelievers and even some Christians who are not deep in the word of God expect to see what they call "righteousness and holiness".

The Lord explained this ongoing transformation to Prophet Jeremiah as seen in the scripture below.

The word which came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,

Arise, and go down to the potter's house, and there I will cause thee to hear my words. Then I went down to the potter's house, and, behold, he wrought a work on the wheels.

And the vessel that he made of clay was marred in the hand of the potter: so he made it again another vessel, as seemed good to the potter to make it. Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying, O house of Israel, cannot I do with you as this potter? Saith the LORD.

Behold, as the clay is in the potter's hand, so are ye in mine hand, O house of Israel.

Jeremiah 18:1-6

The Lord is continuously working on us every day. Our earthen vessels are being moulded every time. We are vessels of clay with the Holy Spirit living within us bringing about the gradual change and transformation we desire.

For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure.

Philippians 2:13

But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God, and not of us.

2Corinthians 4:7

As a Christian, allow the greater love of Jesus Christ through the Holy Spirit to touch you and make you better and better day by day. Hallelujah, Praise the Lord!

But by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain; but I laboured more abundantly than they all: yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me.

1Corithians 15:10

4 Major Priorities Every Christian Must Have

These things must be the aim, desire, goal and ambition of every Christian amongst many other things. We must aim to become the following,

1. To Be The Salt Of The Earth Wherever We Are.

YE ARE THE SALT OF THE EARTH: but if the salt has lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men.

Mathew 5:13

I believe Salt is a seasoning ingredient, a preservative, a restorative agent and plays a significant role in the health of every human life.

Therefore what Jesus Christ is telling us is for every believer to become significant, to become a greater influence, to become a preserver and a restorer of life and dignity everywhere we may find ourselves.

We must see ourselves as our Lord Jesus sees us, and when we discover who we are and what we can be, we rise to the occasion and fulfil our destiny and the call of God upon our lives.

2. To Be The Light Of The World Wherever We Are.

YE ARE THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid.

Mathew 5:12

Just meditate on this phrase " **You are the light of the world** ". This is an outstanding statement and carries in it the ability for whoever understands it to rise up and take their place as lights. Remember, the whole earth is full of wickedness and darkness as the scriptures say.

And they shall look unto the earth, and behold trouble and darkness, dimness of anguish, and they shall be driven to darkness.

Isaiah 8:22

What It Means To Be The Light Of This World

i Become an excellent example of a believer.

ii Become the best example of how to live a life of a Christian.

iii Become the best representative of Jesus Christ whiles we are in the world

iv To exhibit the best attributes and characteristics that positively influence people all over the world.

v To provide direction, leadership and guidance to the nations of this world by the Holy Spirit.

3. To Become A City Set On A Hill Wherever We Are.

Ye are the light of the world. A CITY THAT IS SET ON AN HILL CANNOT BE HID.

Mathew 5:1

A city set on a Hill is an obvious description, Jesus Christ is not saying we must be towns or villages set on a Hill. There are so many towns or villages, or dwelling places that are and can be set on a Hill but for the Christian, we are to become A CITY set on a Hill.

Obviously, a city is very different from a town or a village or even a suburb. Most countries are described by their magnificent cities. When you make mention of a country, the next thing that comes to mind is a well-known city in that country.

Besides, cities can be in different land formations and topographies but a city set on a Hill is definitely a city worth visiting. Therefore, we are to be the best example of a city, Jesus is actually telling us to be bold and display the glory of God in our lives and through our lives.

To become a city set on a Hill is a lot of work but the believer must be ready to climb up to the vision that Jesus has given us. We must aim not to hide our salvation or the works of God but boldly live and declare the glory of God in our lives through our works.

4. To Let Our Light So Shine Before Men.

LET YOUR LIGHT SO SHINE BEFORE MEN that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.

Mathew 5:16

What is the light that God has given you?

The Light can be

1. A knowledge that God has given you

2. A gift that God has given you

3. An ability that God has given you

4. A talent that God has given you

5. An accomplishment that God has put in your heart to do

6. The work that God has given you to do

7. The dream and goal that God has given you to fulfil.

The instruction is that "LET YOUR LIGHT SO SHINE BEFORE MEN". It is not angels or devils who are to see the light that God has given to us, it is our fellow brothers and sisters, our children and cousins, family and strangers within the environment we live in and beyond, they are to see the brightness of our light.

This also tells us that, as Christians, we are to make every necessary effort to train and develop our self and our skills so they shine brighter and brighter. The responsibility of our light shining is on us and no one else.

Jesus indeed said "Let YOUR light shine". This denotes an individual light or our individual light has to shine. Jesus is addressing the Christian as an individual and not as a group, so for your light to shine, it depends on you and not the group (church) to which you belong.

As believers, we MUST take up the responsibility to develop ourselves and to shine in our respective fields ONLY WITH ONE AIM, TO BRING GLORY TO GOD.

If you are aiming to shine, aim to shine,

1. Not to impress other Christians

2. Not to become overbearing to other people

3. Not to become proud, God resist the proud

4. Not to think highly of yourself more than you ought to

5. Not to humiliate or look down on others

6. We must shine in the right way

7. Not to break up or destroy another light in the process of shinning ours.

The motive and the purpose of your light shining are very important to God. It must be with one purpose, one goal and one desire, TO PLEASE THE HEAVENLY FATHER AND TO BRING GLORY TO HIM. Any other motive or reason for shinning your light before men will not be acceptable unto God.

And if a man also strives for masteries, yet is he not crowned, EXCEPT HE STRIVE LAWFULLY.

2Timothy 2:5

If the shinning of your light which is also described as "striving for masteries" is not done lawfully or in the prescribed way which is to say "to bring glory to the Heavenly Father", please understand that you will not be crowned, neither will you please the Heavenly Father. So let us shine our lights in the right way!

Thank you for reading my book. If you enjoyed it, recommend it to as many people as possible. Buy it as a present to your friends, your pastor, or your spiritual leader.

I encourage you to use it as an evangelistic tool to reach out to the unsaved souls worldwide. Kindly take a moment to leave me a review at your favourite retailer. Thanks a million

D K Okine: Author

Reaching out to millions of souls worldwide!
About the Author

Reverend David K Okine is a missionary and a powerful minister of the Gospel of Jesus Christ who has been used by the Lord in starting and pastoring several churches.

Many notable miracles have accompanied Reverend D K Okine's meetings. These phenomenal miracles include healing on back pains, healing of a woman with an issue of blood, etc.

D K Okine is a pastor and a protégé of Bishop Dag Heward- Mills at the Lighthouse Chapel International, a charismatic denomination with over 2500 churches spreading across the United States, Europe, Africa, Asia, the Caribbean, South America, Australia, etc.

D K Okine lives in Durban, Kwazulu-Natal, South Africa with his lovely wife Ezer and their son Kenneth David.
**Other Books Written By D K Okine**

21 Functions of the Holy Spirit in the life of Every Christian

Go Ye And Preach The Gospel To All Nations

The Greatest Expression of Your Love for God

What Must I Do To Have Eternal Life

Transform Your Christian Life

Prepare To Meet Your God
