 
IGNIS

#  Tough times don't last, tough people do

Robert H. Schuller

By: Bassem Khaled

Prologue

Ugin trusted Gustaf with his life and he was wrong!Gustaf had been conspiring with Denmor to kill Ugin and make himself king, they had been planning this for years, and now it's the time to do it.

It was the darkest night in the history of Morhin, Gustaf had lots of followers among the guards, two of them were the guards of the king's chamber, they let Gustaf in while the king was asleep.

It was huge and had a big bed and a study near it, there was a door to the restroom, and the ceiling was golden, and the walls were granite it was fancy and had a dressing room.

Gustaf strolled inside the chamber, and he found the king awake in his study his wife Jasmine was asleep, and he was reading a book he felt someone behind him, so he looked behind him and saw Gustaf the king was unsure about what Gustaf was doing in his chamber, so he asked: what brings you here in this time Gustaf ?

Gustaf didn't answer and got his sword out the king was afraid, but he was a courageous man, so he stood firm and asked: what are you doing with that sword? , Gustaf answered: sorry my lord you are relieved from your position. Ugin was shocked and tried to stay calm and said: what is this? He called out for the guards but no one came to the chamber, his wife woke up and said: what is it, my dear?

She opened her eyes and saw Gustaf with the sword and Ugin standing in front of him she panicked and started screaming Gustaf didn't wait much longer, and he readied his sword and took a swing at Ugin, Ugin was an old man now, so he didn't have anything to do he was slow and weak so the swing hit him hard and cut off his head the blood splattered all over the wall and his head flew to his bed and landed in front of his wife she screamed in sorrow and Gustaf was not done yet he walked to her bed and stood next to her and said: sorry my dear .

She screamed: no please don't, please!

But Gustaf didn't care and drove the sword through her heart the bed turned red, and it was over

Gustaf framed a young guard for the murder.

He declared himself the new king he then gathered his allies and made them his council, the people of Morhin knew that Gustaf was the right hand of Ugin so they trusted him and life went on .

Gustaf wanted power, so he built an army to enforce the existent army of red guards, a warlock helped him to control golems.

Olaf knew that Gustaf had betrayed Ugin, so he declared war on Morhin, Haigen joined the war on Morhin's side, of course.

The war was too slow Olaf couldn't fight them both so he wanted peace for the sake of his people and he got it but after Yag Harbor was destroyed. The following story happened before the peace
Chapter one

The hall of the king's palace, it's a huge place with red walls and a high ceiling the way to the king's throne is surrounded by Red Guards and some of the Golem guards behind them.

The place looked very dark the king's son Trent is there talking to his Father with Harbinger the head of the golem guards and Kane the head of the red guards and with them also the warlock of the king.

King Gustaf : where are we with the invasion of Yag Harbor?

Kane: we launched the full-scale assault on the harbor yesterday, but it's going slow.

King Gustaf angrily: why is it taking so long, there is only one legion God damn it, and Olaf didn't send reinforcements there yet.

Kane: they are getting aid from the Dragon Order sir, and my red guards are having trouble killing them.

King Gustaf : where are the golems then Harbinger? , get those dragons out of Yag now!!

Harbinger: my first legion are on their way right now and the second and third are ready to move in hours sir we will crush them.

Trent: they are low in numbers their order is falling apart we need more men there to finish this.

King Gustaf : I don't want to finish this, I want to see them all suffer, and I want to kill Darius with my bare hands.

Kane: we are close to finding their headquarters just give me one week, and the order will be destroyed forever.

King Gustaf : Kane, send words to your red guards tell them to hold their positions till the Legion gets there and tell them to kill Yag's people wherever they find them.

Kane: but sir we may need those people.

King Gustaf : shut up we are there to kill all and to get control over the harbor it's a strategic plan to hurt our enemies Olaf will lose lots of money, and his economy will soon fall Yag is one of his key cities if we take that the whole province will fall.

Kane: Forgive me sir but.

King Gustaf : no buts give the order, or I will give it myself, and you will not be there even to watch!

Kane: Sir forgive my wrong thinking I will give the order right away.

King Gustaf : get out of my sight! Come back when you understand that you are nothing.

Kane left, and the king is furious Trent also left, the king and Harbinger and the warlock are talking together.

King Gustaf : tell me Harbinger how are we doing with the stronger golems you are working on with the warlock?

Harbinger: I must say I didn't think it will be that fast, but we have more than a hundred of them right now.

King Gustaf : tell me then how Are they? Are they as tough as we hoped they would be?

Harbinger: they are stronger than we even wanted them to be.

King Gustaf : then send them to Yag harbor now I want to see what can they do to these dragons.

Harbinger: okay right away sir but we will be sending a few of them, considering there are only a few dragons there.

King Gustaf : okay but send them now, right now.

Harbinger leaves fast to give the order to the golems, and the warlock seems to be pleased.

Harbinger and the warlock were making stronger golems by experimenting on the golems to augment their power and size, they subjected golems to a mythical lake underneath the castle of Morhin, the water in this lake is said to be originated from Kenway's mountain, this mountain is the tomb of the first warlock Kenway,

In Yag harbor the fighting had stopped for a few hours after the orders came in from Kane to hold positions, The streets of Yag city is now filled with corpses and blood, you could smell the hatred and anger from the red guards, they were also subject to the warlock's experiments.

The king had the warlock curse all his troops with the hunger for blood so they won't decline an order because they are now enjoying killing very much.

But they are no match for the golem guards which are not human they are stone golems with bigger and stronger bodies than the red guards and they looked ugly, and they are hard to kill, they are also cursed with the hunger for blood, but they don't just kill people they eat them alive.

The city is somewhat fallen, but the Dragon order is trying to save what is left from the people and trying to fight off the red guards and golems.

The Dragon order is a group of humans that can transform into Dragons due to their connection with the elder dragon Thorn which gave them this strong ability and they are fighting King Gustaf after he betrayed them as well.

Gustaf was one step ahead He was always trustworthy to the dragon order that he gathered them at his castle in Rockwood before he killed the king and he let them eat and drink till they were all wasted.

While Darius was eating with Elie, a hundred more from the dragon order were eating and drinking as well.

It was cheerful, and they had exceptional fun Darius was looking around for Gustaf, he was just right next to him, and now he is gone the guards are gone too Darius felt there is something wrong Elie thought the same thing too! The place was huge there were long tables and a lot of dancers.

Darius stood up and looked at the second floor there was no one up there he then looked at his people there was something wrong clearly, and he knew it, a minute later Gustaf appeared on the second floor, and he shouted cheers, Darius!

Darius looked at Gustaf , and he saw red guards on the second floor they had large bowls, the bowls were emitting large quantities of smoke, and before Darius could say anything they threw them at the dragon order. The first bowl hit the ground, and there was a big explosion the bowl had knives in it and when the bowl exploded the knives went flying all around.

You could see knives in the eyes of some people, and the heart of others, the explosion alone killed like twenty men and women there was lots of screams and chaos overwhelmed the castle.

The bowls kept coming, and the people kept dying they ran to the exit, but it was shut more men and women died the blood covered everything in the hall, and Darius had only one option, he had to jump from the window!

He and Elie ran towards the window, and some of the people followed them, the guards started shooting arrows at them and some of them got hit and fell to the ground it was intense Elie was scared.

She kept thinking she was going to die, but Darius kept calming her down and saying: stay with me Elie we have to get out of here.

And so they jumped out of the window, and they shifted to dragon form and flew away, only twenty men and women survived that day.

Their master Darius was the strongest dragon after Thorn but with the loss that the dragons suffered at Rockwood he couldn't get killed, or the order will be gone forever!

So he is orchestrating every movement from his castle deep in the mountain of the elder dragon, no one knows the place of the castle except the dragons that's why the king couldn't find it.

In Yag, there are about ten dragons trying to defend the city, and they are getting tired after fighting off the golems and red guards

Yager the third is hopeless he can't do anything to save his city from this huge invasion his army is shattered, and only a few remain alive his generals had been killed! And he and his family are inside a castle that is surrounded by thousands of golems and red guards and only ten dragons defending it .

Yager knew King Olaf couldn't send reinforcements in time.

The dragons are not weak but against these huge numbers they can only hold them off for a bit longer, that's all.

As Yager is thinking about all this, a window broke next to him, and some smoke slipped in, Yager was disturbed and afraid he reached for his sword but then the smoke transformed into a man.

He was wearing a hood and body armor the man was Greylan the master of the shadow assassins he walked to him calmly and said: Yager if I wanted to kill you, you will be already dead calm down and drop the sword I am here to make you an offer.

Yager: don't expect me to drop my sword say what you want to say I will hear you.

Greylan: Okay then I see you are in a bit of a situation here, your city is falling, and most of your people are dead, and your castle is merely defended there are only ten dragons out there! Darius must be running short on them these days, and Olaf's tropes are way too far to reinforce you.

Yager: what do you want? Get to it.

Greylan: Okay I am here to offer you my aid to help you reclaim your city, you know my order we are huge in numbers, and we can reclaim your city for you.

Yager: at what cost? You are not offering this out of your good heart, are you?

Greylan: the cost is not that big I only want half what is in your treasury and free passage through the harbor that's all I ask.

Yager: that's too much I can't agree to this.

Greylan: it's your call I will leave now and let you watch your city burn.

Yager: wait, how long will it take your men to get here?

Greylan: they are already here just agree, and all this will end in no time.

Yager: you are a sick bastard you know that I need help, and you only see your benefit.

Greylan: no need to be like that this is what I do, live with it and tell me do you agree or not?

Yager: Okay I agree, just do what you can to save my city.

Greylan: it's always a pleasure Yager have a nice day.

Greylan turned to smoke and left through the window, and Yager was sad and angry that he had to agree to what Greylan offered to save his city.

The dragons were flying around the castle, and they heard a loud war cry.

They looked behind them, and there was a huge amount of smoke coming towards the city the dragons knew that these are the shadow assassins, but they didn't know that they are coming to help so they got ready to fight them as well but Greylan shouted: we are here to help.

So the dragons were at ease, and the smoke cloud arrived at the city the red guards were a bit afraid, the golems just wanted to eat more, the smoke started transforming into a lot of assassins they were more than five thousand.

They just charged straight to the enemy lines the battle was raging, and the assassins had more skills than the golems and the red guards, but the golems were so strong they were killing them very easily, but the dragons can kill the golems quickly.

The fight was brutal, and there was a lot of casualties on both sides, but the assassins were winning slightly, and one of their high ranking officers was Blake the strongest and most skilled assassin after Greylan! He was thirty-five years old, the man was well built for his age his hair was as dark as the sea at night he was white, Blake was wearing a black armor he had a beautiful sword in his hand as well.

He was killing a lot of the red guards, and he killed some golems too he was leading his squad to flank the red guards, the battlefield was massive, and there were a lot of damaged buildings and a lot of corpses.

Blake flanked the enemy and started doing some extensive damage to their formations, and their morality began to drop real hard but then when he was about to kill their general and secure the victory the golem reinforcements arrived.

The dragons were flying above the battlefield grabbing red guards and golems into the air and tearing them apart, and they were shooting fireballs at a lot of them as well, on the ground Blake was watching them while he was killing, but everything changed when those huge golems arrived!

They were unyielding, and they were huge like five to ten meters tall, assassins started to die fast, and dragons fell from the sky it was a big turn around the huge golems were killing ten or more in only one hit! They grabbed dragons from the sky and crushed them they even started to throw huge rocks at the castle.

Yager was standing in the castle watching the city and the battleground where assassins were dying and dragons falling from the sky.

The city is burning down, and it was all over what was left of the assassins just turned to smoke, they were subtle in numbers.

Blake was still fighting, and his squad began to lose morale, so a lot of them just turned to smoke and fled the battle like what was left of the assassins.

But Blake held his ground and was still killing lots of red guards, but he was surrounded and started taking a lot of hits he was wounded greatly, and there were no more assassins around to help him, but there were still two dragons alive.

They defended him a bit, but he was injured and fell to the ground on his back, and there is like thousands of dead assassins all around him.

It was clear that the battle was lost, and Blake was waiting for the end, but the two dragons did all they could to help him, and they burned a lot of red guards that were trying to kill him they also dodged a lot of rocks the huge golems had thrown at them.

They managed to grab him from the ground and fly away, the dragons were wounded, but not greatly Blake was dead than alive while he was in the air he looked at the city It was not a city anymore.

The castle is destroyed completely and all ships at the harbor sunk all was lost, and lots of his brothers were killed, the order of the assassins had suffered significant loss and defeat that can never be forgotten, Blake passed out, and it was all dark.

The dragons in the other hand were devastated they lost eight in this battle, and it's a huge number for an order that is near its end.

Flying hardly and slowly the two dragons got to their mountain. The mountain was huge the castle was hidden inside the mountain.

It was well hidden and no one could ever get to it unless they know exactly where it is, when they approached the castle the alarm was raised and they landed in the courtyard they changed back to human form, and they were suffering a lot, so the guards took them to rest and informed Darius of their arrival.

Blake woke up in a small room more like a cell, and he was feeling pain, a lot of it.

He tried to stand up but it was hard, he managed to stand up after a couple of tries he then started wondering where he was and how did he get there and he started shouting as loud as he can: let me out, where am I? He looked to his left and right, and all he could see is cells, empty cells.

There was no answer he continued to shout until a soft sound told him to calm down, he looked to the source of it.

He saw a beautiful woman coming towards him, she was a bit pale but still beautiful she had blond hair, and it was so good, you would think it was golden she said: my name is Elie what is yours?

Blake answered: I am Blake, who are you and what is this place?

Elie: I am a high ranking officer in the Dragon order, and this is thorn castle our headquarters, you are in the holding cells, though.

Blake: how did I get here? And why am I here?

Elie: I carried you here from the battlefield, you were about to die so we saved you and brought you here.

Blake: I thank you, but I wanted to die you should have left me.

Elie: no need to thank me I was doing my job I don't care about what you want we need information from you.

Blake: Okay so what am I doing in a cell then?

Elie: well Darius doesn't trust you so he ordered us to lock you up in here until he comes and talk to you.

Blake: Okay, but can I have some water?

Elie: no, not until Darius sees you.

Elie then leaves while looking at Blake and he is angry.

It's been a while and Blake was sitting in the cell thinking about his dead brothers and trying to figure out where is Greylan now, but he then sees a man coming.

The man: hello assassin, why were you fighting at Yag harbor?

Blake: we were trying to save it, and we fought side by side with the dragons so they must have told you, who are you?

Darius: my name is Darius the master of the Dragon order, so why did you fight at Yag harbor?

Blake: it was an agreement between Yager and us.

Darius: so you did all that for money? You are like mercenaries; I never trust mercenaries.

Blake: I am not a mercenary, Greylan made the deal, and we just follow his orders, and I don't need you to trust me, and even if I were a mercenary I don't care about your opinion.

Darius: so you are just another follower that has no will I think we were mistaken to take you here you will be either killed or kicked out of here.

Blake: I am not a follower, and I don't care who the hell you are you don't know me so shut up, and I would like to see you trying to kill me.

Darius: that's interesting Elie told me that there is something about you, and I think she was right.

Blake: what do you mean?

Darius: you are not just another assassin in the order who are you? , I sense that I know you.

At this moment Blake flashed back ten years ago: he was at a small house in Gale city, and the house was surrounded by many fields he was happy he had a wife and a son, and it was a sunny day like every other day in his life.

He just woke up, and he didn't find his wife or his son so he got out of the house and he saw all the village citizens, they were surrounded by elf guards.

The elf guards saw him and then grabbed him and started hitting him till he was on the ground bleeding it all happened so fast he was looking at his family, and they were looking at him they were afraid.

The elf guards started killing all of them and Blake was helpless he was on the ground he watched his wife got killed by elves!

And the high ranking officer known as Kalra grabbed his son and held him to the wall he then started punching him in the face and the stomach he started spilling blood from his mouth and he was crying, Blake shouted: he is only five for god's sake! , Kalra looked at him then he had this smile on his face, he then got his sword, Blake was hurt, and he was weak he felt the vision got blurry he couldn't see and then he went unconscious, all this was because he was from the dragon order! The city was burned down, no dragons came to help nothing, Blake didn't connect to his inner dragon yet so he couldn't do anything, he opened his eyes and his son wasn't there anymore, and he thought they killed him he shouted out of pain and sorrow.

The elf guards were about to kill Blake smoke appeared and turned into a man, this man was Greylan, he started talking to Kalra in elven language Kalra didn't agree at the beginning, but Greylan convinced him to let Blake go!

Greylan grabbed Blake's arm and helped him get up he was severely injured, so he walked barely and they left the city after that he joined the shadow assassin's order and forgot all about the dragon order until now.

So Blake looked to Darius in great anger and said: you are right I was from the Dragon order years ago.

Darius: so you are a traitor, guards!!!

Blake: I am not a traitor you betrayed me you and this order you bastards.

Darius: guards wait! , what are you talking about?

Blake: you don't know then well I will tell you when I needed the order you weren't there but Greylan was, so blame you your order let my family die and my city burn so you don't get to talk to me.

Darius: well I am greatly sorry for your loss but when did that happen?

Blake: ten years ago and I still remember it like it was yesterday.

Darius: I am truly sorry, but I didn't know anything about it if I knew I would have gone to help you myself

Blake: it doesn't matter they are dead, dead you hear me?

Darius: then let me help you I can imagine that you didn't connect with your inner dragon.

Blake: I don't want your help, and I don't want to connect to the damn dragon!

Darius: I can feel why you are so angry, but if you have joined the shadow assassins then you have a lot of skills that can make you a really strong dragon even stronger than me

Blake: and? , I don't want to be strong I wanted to die why didn't you let me die in peace?

Darius: this is useless I will not kill you, but you are never going to leave this cell for the rest of your miserable life.

Blake: I rather die than work with you and your sick order

Darius left angry and mad.

Blake is not feeling bad at all, and he just wanted to die so he can join his family.

Darius and Elie are talking about Blake and Darius wants Elie to talk some sense into him to make him connect with his inner dragon because he will be so strong and could help them in the fight with King Gustaf.

So after weeks and weeks in the cell, all alone Blake started dreaming of an enormous black dragon.

In his dreams he is at the top of thorn mountain, and the dragon is standing in front of him at first he was mad and started cursing the dragon wanting it to leave him alone and never come to his dreams, but the dragon just looked through his eyes and talked to him the dragon said: I can't leave you alone.

Blake: why just leave me alone I don't want to see you, and I don't want anything to do with the dragon order.

The Dragon: I know what you feel, but I can't leave you alone.

Blake: why?!

The dragon: because I am you, I am who you are and who you were and who you will become.

Blake: so if you are me if I die you die?

The dragon: no if you die I will be free.

Blake: then what do I call you then?

The Dragon: well if you must know I am Thorn the elder dragon, and this is my mountain I am the reason why there is an order for the dragons I don't know why we are connected, I have never been connected before, but I think we are connected for a reason.

Blake: Okay, why are you here and what do you want?

Thorn: I want to be free once more I want you to connect with me so you can turn into me, and we will be so strong with your assassin skills we will defeat Gustaf and anyone else who dare to stand in our way.

Blake woke up, and he was feeling a change in heart he wanted to know what it's like to be a dragon and an assassin at the same time how a dragon would turn into smoke?

All of this kept circling in his head till Elie came to him once more she was interested in his story and to know how he feels, they started talking about their past Blake told her everything but she couldn't remember anything before she joined the order.

So her past remains unclear to Blake, but he felt that they have the same way of thinking, and she was gorgeous and so helpful, over an extended period he began to have feelings for her.

One day, when they were walking he told her that he is ready to connect with his inner dragon, so she told Darius at once.

Darius was pleased, and they began training him on how to control his inner dragon and how to shift forms.

Meanwhile King Gustaf after the fall of Yag harbor and Olaf making peace with him he had only one thing to worry about, the Dragon order!

And with the golem army growing real fast now and the massive golems now in thousands his army was unbreakable and undefeated he even got Kane to train lots and lots of red guards, and he made the curse stronger he knew he would get the dragon order once and for all.

But Gustaf was getting blinded by his power which made him more tyrant than he was, he reached the dark lands, and his warlock convinced him to invade the dark lands!

Which opened a new door from hell upon his lands and all lands since the void King Landarin made his monsters attack everything Gustaf owned!

This war was too much for both sides they started losing significant numbers, and the darkness began to consume the lands of the livings this war was too complicated that no one understood what was going on.

While the war was raging between those two sides, Blake was getting the hold of his inner dragon, and it was evident to Darius that he was going to be stronger than him, and all the other dragons but Darius didn't know that he is Thorn.

After a long time in training, it was time for Blake to show them what he can do, he stood at the top of Thorn Mountain where all the dragon order were waiting for him to shift and to see if he is one of them or not.

Elie stood next to him, and she whispered in his ears: you got this I know you can do it.

Blake smiled, and he took a couple of steps forward and took a deep breath and then he turned to smoke then the smoke became dense, and a black dragon emerged from the smoke, and his skin kept emitting smoke with small quantities

He was the biggest dragon they have ever seen and the strongest as well; the whole order stood speechlessly, and Elie was amazed while Darius knew this was Thorn.

Blake then opened his wings and started to fly he was very pleased, and Thorn was as well the both of them fused in this magnificent creature.

He flew real high, and he left a trail of smoke behind him the order was amazed, and they knew that he is the strongest one of them, stronger that Darius even.

When he returned, he turned to human, and Elie liked him even more, and Darius wanted to talk with him, so they stood away from the rest of the order and Darius said: you are Thorn how is this possible?

Blake: I don't know, but I dreamt of Thorn he told me that we are connected somehow and that he was never connected to anybody, but he felt that we are meant to be connected.

Darius: this is more than what I imagined you would help us a lot against Gustaf I hope.

Blake: I will do what I can, but I still don't like you.

Darius: it doesn't matter as long as you fight for our cause

Darius left and he was somewhat happy but displeased at the same time and Blake was triumphal and pleased, and he looked to Elie with great feelings she could feel that he has feelings for her.

Elie knew that Darius wanted to be Thorn for a long time so he must be displeased but he can't change what Thorn had done it's over.

But Darius was not only displeased he was mad, and he thought that Thorn had betrayed him, and he started to feel the darkness growing inside of him he was consumed by his madness.

So he took off left the castle, and all the order felt that there was something wrong Elie was afraid that he had been blinded by his quest for power and that he was going to betray all of the order for it, and she was right.

At the same time at the assassin's hideout Greylan was mad because he had lost good men, brothers. In the battle of Yag and he was devastated because Blake is gone he thought he was killed in the fight and this made him think about everything he is about to do, more than once, he blamed himself for what happened, and he regretted falling back at the first giant golem attack.

But he was also keeping an eye on the war between Gustaf and Landarin he knew that nothing good could happen from this war, and he knew that Landarin would teach Gustaf a lesson for attacking him in his lands it was only a matter of time till the void legions arrive at the living world, and it will be a blind war where all humans will pay for the foolishness of Gustaf .

Greylan is trying to recruit more assassins to defend his village and homeland and people, so he sent out to the edges of his homeland to get as many men as possible.

The training was going well but then when the assassins were in the courtyard training, darkness fell and the assassins prepared for battle but it was only Landarin he wanted to talk to Greylan.

Landarin: hello Greylan it's been a long time since we last met

Greylan: and I hoped we never meet again, what do you want?

Landarin: I just want you to keep yourself out of this war, don't make me end the order of the shadow assassins.

Greylan: so you came to threaten me, you know that it's not going to happen.

Landarin: I see that you are still training your forces I will come after I finish Gustaf , and I will wipe you all out of this earth you know I can and I will.

The darkness lifted, and Landarin left.

Greylan is sorrowful and angry because he knew that Landarin is stronger than him and that the order of the shadow assassins is at an end soon, so he gathered all the order and told them what is going to happen so if anyone wants out now is the right time to say so.

Greylan: you all saw Landarin he came to warn us that if we don't keep ourselves out of this war we will be wiped out, and all that we stand for will be gone, but I told him that we couldn't be threatened, and we will stand our grounds and fight.

So if anyone wants to back down, now is the right time to do so if not get ready for the battle of your lives.

All the order stood their ground, and all shouted their war cry Greylan was pleased, but he knew that there is no possible way that they can win this fight.

Darius left the mountain castle and went on a journey to the dark lands he was seeking Landarin he traveled for days and weeks to get to the edge of the living lands.

He entered the dark lands with so much hatred for Thorn that he forgot all about his order and his moralities and wanted to make a deal with Landarin.

The dark lands was a dead land, dead trees, and dead grass nothing is alive there except the void creatures and Landarin.

Darius walked in the dark he was all alone, or that is what he thought!

You can hear his footsteps, and there was a terrible silence then a roar caught his attention it was a huge void creature!

It had long horns and strong muscles it was fearless it looked like a lion, but a huge one and its fur was black, and its face was white, it charged at him, broke like ten trees and it almost hit him he dodged its charge and turned to dragon form he was much bigger.

The creature didn't back down instead it called for help, soon after four creatures came they were its pack Darius was surrounded, and they jumped on him, one of them bite his wing and the other bite his neck the other two started attacking his legs, it was evident that this fight is over he could only fly away but yet his wing was injured so he couldn't. Other creatures started coming too; they saw a prey; they saw food, then a sound talked: we don't treat our visitors this way, of you go the creatures then looked behind them, and they saw Landarin, they retreated and left Darius bleeding.

Landarin was pleased to see Darius as if he knew why he was coming.

Landarin: Darius, Darius what brings you here to the dark lands?

Darius: I came to talk to you.

Landarin: then talk, what do you want?

Darius: I want you to give me void powers, and I will serve you.

Landarin: you are the master of the dragon order why do you want to serve me? And why do you need void powers?

Darius: I want to kill Thorn and claim my rightful place at the top of the dragons, and I want to kill Blake too.

Landarin: Oh I see, So Thorn chose him over you, and now you want revenge on both of them, that's interesting, and you will also serve me, Okay but if I am going to give you void powers I want you to fight with me against any enemy is that clear?

Darius: yes I will, but you have to make me incredibly powerful.

Landarin: you will be invincible, but our first destination will be Thorn Castle.

Darius: Okay, I will kill Thorn, and the order will bow before me.

Landarin: this is what I wanted to hear.

Landarin walked up to Darius and put his hands on his head and then darkness flew from his hands into Darius's face.

And it began to get into it through his mouth, and eyes Darius turned pale, and his eyes turned red, and he screamed, and then Landarin stepped back and told him to turn.

Darius took a deep breath and then he turned into a huge silver dragon on fire he was adamant that when he opened his wings and flew the ground shook really hard it was clear that he is now stronger, bigger and he turned evil the darkness consumed what was left of him he is no longer Darius that the order knew.

And he was on his way to show them that, the void opened, and the legions started coming to the dark lands their numbers were vast they were like a ten thousand soldier it was a force that Gustaf can't handle or anyone, and they marched for the mountain.

King Gustaf spies saw Darius enter the dark lands and come out as a burning silver dragon, so they concluded that the dragons had allied with Landarin!

So the king ordered Harbinger to make more giant golems and more golems and ordered Kane to gather all his forces and march for the dark lands, he also ordered Trent to take his Cavalrymen to the battlefield as well, to help Kane until he and Harbinger come.

Assassins spies in the king's palace knew their plans and took off to the hideout of the shadow assassins to inform Greylan.

Darius led the void forces to the mountain it took them like three weeks to get there, and the castle guards saw the silver dragon, and they thought it was an ally, but the void forces came soon after and the siege began.

It was clear that the dragon order is at an end, Blake was pointed in charge after Darius left because he is the strongest and he had a feeling that the silver dragon was Darius, and he was right.

But Elie didn't believe it and insisted on talking to the silver dragon to see if it was true.

She went out of the castle into the sky and tried talking to him, but there was no talking with this evil creature, it wasn't Darius anymore.

Once he saw her he breathed fire onto her, and she wasn't strong enough to take it, so she fell from the sky and hit the ground hard, she turned to human, and she was injured yet she ran towards the castle, but the void forces surrounded her.

She was scared, and she knew that no one would be foolish enough to come out of the castle to save her, but she was wrong because one second later Blake came in his dragon form and picked her up with his legs, she was shocked but happy that he came, and she looked at him with great affection.

But there was no time for that because Darius was onto them he was chasing them, Blake flew near the castle walls, and Darius was shooting fireballs at them, the fire hit the walls near them, and the castle walls were being destroyed.

Blake then flew near the ground and left Elie near one of the escape tunnels exit, where she found what was left of the dragon order there they told her that Blake had ordered them to leave the castle and escape through the tunnels. She was pleased, but they had to move quickly before the void forces come .

Elie knew that Darius would probably tell them about the tunnels so she made the rest of the order move quickly away from the mountain they ran into the wilderness they dodged trees and jumped off cliffs they never looked back except Elie she knew she couldn't help Blake, no one could!

Darius chased Blake to the top of the mountain where they landed and turned human, and they talked.

Blake: why did you betray us? Darius, you were our leader and master why?

Darius: because Thorn betrayed me I was supposed to have all his powers but instead he gave it to you, and now you are both going to die.

Blake: you sold yourself to the darkness.

Darius: but am stronger than you, it doesn't matter.

Blake: I will fight you.

Blake knew he couldn't possibly win this fight, but he had to fight because fleeing is not what he was accustomed to.

Both men turned and took flight Darius was way stronger, He was clearly going to win, but Blake had a stronger will.

The fight began, Darius was consumed by anger and hatred, and he was jealous of Blake, while Blake was only thinking about Elie and what could have been if none of this happened, Darius attacked first he flew towards Blake, and he breathed fire onto him his fire was so dense!

Blake was in great pain and Thorn knew that he couldn't win against Darius, so he wanted to fly away, but Blake was in control so Thorn felt useless and he felt that he shouldn't be connected to humans he is better that this.

But he had to obey Blake, Blake turned to smoke and flew behind Darius, and he turned back to dragon form and took a bite out of Darius's back, but Darius turned to him and grabbed him by his leg, and he smashed his head to the castle walls!

He then bites Blake's wing, Blake couldn't fly anymore with his damaged wing, so Darius grabbed him once more and flew towards the ground fast he landed on Blake, and the ground shattered underneath them Blake was fragile and couldn't move!

Darius didn't stop he grabbed him and took flight he flew high, and then he left Blake to free fall, the battle was over Blake fell, and he could see Darius fly away.

But Blake was not dead he was somehow alive he fell into a lake near the castle the void forces didn't have time to see if he was dead because they were surprised by an attack by King Gustaf's red guards.

The attack broke their formations, and they lost quite a big number in this first fight.

So they focused on them and left Blake alone assumed that he was dead.

But there was an assassin spy he went to the black dragon he didn't know it was Blake.

He found him breathing hard so he talked to him and said: can you turn to human? Blake turned barely into human and then, the spy knew he was Blake and took him right away to Greylan.

At the mean time the battle was so brutal the void forces were winning considerably, and Darius was helping them and killing lots of red guards, but then the huge golems came and started balancing the fight a bit.

The void forces started taking losses, and Darius was hit multiple times with rocks so he retreated and the rest of the void forces were fighting hard both sides took some great losses, and the fight continued for two days!

Until Trent led his cavalry to flank them and he managed to kill a lot, but he was facing Landarin alone inside their formations, landarin was pleased to face Trent, and he knew he could kill him easily and make Gustaf suffer the loss of his only son.

Trent, on the other hand, was underestimating Landarin he thought he could kill him, and so the fight began Landarin was on the ground while Trent was on his horse.

Trent charged at Landarin with his sword ready to cut off his head as he thought but Landarin had a large spear he through it at the horse's chest the horse fell to the ground while it was running so Trent fell off it really hard, and the sword fell away from him Landarin got his sword out and walked calmly towards him.

Landarin was wearing a black armor, and he had a skull helmet it was terrifying for Trent, Landarin grabbed Trent by his hair and dragged him.

Trent screamed, and Landarin called out to his pet, it was a huge war hound, didn't look like a dog, more like a mythical creature it was as big as a horse, its skin was silver, and it was ravenous! When Trent saw it, he was consumed by fear, and he didn't stop screaming until it charged at him and started eating him alive his blood was all over its face, and the ground was red, Landarin was pleased.

Gustaf's forces retreated after seeing Trent's death, and their morale was very low.

They retreated to a nearby town, and Kane sent word to the king about his son's death, Gustaf was in great pain he lost his only son, and he lost the battle as well, he swore that he would kill Landarin and take his head as a trophy.

After twelve days assassin's spy delivered Blake to Greylan, he was very pleased that he was still alive, and he got him the best doctors he has to attend to him.

It took them like a week or so to get him back up on his feet, and he was still feeling pain, Elie, and the rest of the dragon order wandered the lands without a clue about what they will do .

Elie became their master, and she knew she had to get help, or the void forces which were tracking them will get to them and kill them.

They needed to hide, and the only place she could think of was the assassin's hideout so they walked for thirty days because they couldn't fly or else they will attract Darius's attention, they were also wounded.

So their movement was slow, they traversed mountains and rivers to get to the assassin's hideout, when they got there finally Greylan welcomed them with open arms and offered them shelter and food he then told Elie that Blake was still alive,

Elie went to see Blake and to see if he was okay, he was very pleased to see her alive.

She told him that some of them died on the way to the assassin's hideout so he was sad and he felt like he had failed them all and that it's all his fault but Elie told him that it was Darius's fault, not his and that they can still defeat him and Landarin.

But they will need more help with the aid of the assassins.

The fire jungle is a dangerous place where no living thing goes in except fire cult which is immune to fire, and they can control it as well.

They didn't communicate with the outer world they were very aggressive their origins was unknown, but they were humans once cursed by their leader Hayland after the loss of his daughter by the hands of elf guards long ago.

Elie wanted their help and took Blake with her and Greyland as well.

At the king's palace, the king was sorrowful because his only son died he didn't care about anything not his kingdom nor his army, so Harbinger had a plan for him he walked up to him and said: my lord are you okay?

King Gustaf : leave me alone.

Harbinger: I can't, this is the end, sir.

King Gustaf : the end?

Harbinger: you are no longer fit to be the king.

King Gustaf : guards! But no one answered Harbinger then got his sword ready and without any more words, he stabbed the king in the heart, the King then grabbed him and whispered: just like what I did to Ugin, he said this with great sorrow.

Blake, Elie, and Greylan reached the fire jungle and went in, the jungle was on eternal fire that never runs out, they walked into the fire and moved forward, but they felt like they were being watched!

They started looking around them, and suddenly a man came from the fire up ahead he was old but yet very strong looking the man was Hayland.

Hayland: what are you doing in our jungle?!!

Then he looked at Elie for a bit he knew her somehow.

Hayland: who are you, girl?

Elie: I am Elie who are you?

Hayland: Elie?! don't you remember me?

Elie: no who are you?

Hayland: it doesn't matter who I am what matter is who you are ?do you remember anything?

Elie: no my past is unclear I only remember the time I joined the dragon order.

Hayland: the dragon order? , good for you.

Elie: how do you know me?

Hayland: I thought you were dead, child.

Elie: who are you?

Hayland: I am your father!!

Elie: my father? , I don't remember anything.

Hayland: they took you right from my arms. I thought you were dead!!!

Elie: I don't remember anything.

Hayland: you are my child, my child you hear me.

Elie: if what you say is true then you will help me.

Hayland: of course my child anything for you.

Elie didn't remember anything, but she knew that Hayland was not lying, Hayland then called out for his cult, Lots of people started coming out of the fire and they were pleased to see her finally after many years.

Hayland have cursed his people after she was taken away from him, he cursed them to protect them from Denmor's men, and it worked for many years no one ever dared to enter the fire jungle.

Hayland then looked to Blake and Greylan.

Hayland: what are you doing here Greylan it's been a long time?

Greylan: we need your help.

Hayland: what help?

Greylan: I know that your numbers are great and that you are the only people who can fight the void forces, help us, please.

Hayland: you didn't help me when my daughter was taken, why should I help you now?

Greylan: you are not helping me you are helping us your daughter included.

Hayland: why should I risk the lives of my people for you?

Greylan: if you don't they will come for you and if Landarin doesn't come Gustaf will.

Hayland: haven't you heard Gustaf is dead.

Greylan: what?

Hayland: the news spread fast around here.

Greylan: so we need to defeat the void forces only?

Hayland: no, Harbinger is in charge now, and he is worse than Gustaf .

Greylan: Okay, we have two armies to fight, you with us?

Hayland: yes for my daughter.

Harbinger now have control over the red guards after killing the king, and he controls the golems as well, so he ordered the attack on the void forces after his spies had seen their numbers and he was leading the army, the battle began, and the void forces attacked Harbinger's army from every side and Darius was helping them, the battlefield was a large plane ground with minimal trees, and it was raining heavily, the void forces had the numbers advantage, but Harbinger had the large golems

The battle went on for days and nights, and there was no clear winner yet.

The fire cult came into the battlefield from the mountains, they were eager to fight, and when Landarin saw them he began to think about retreating, and he gave the order the void forces retreated slowly into the dark land and left the battlefield, he knew that his forces are no match for the fire cult.

Darius: Landarin why did you retreat?

Landarin: I don't want to lose my men over a lost battle, the fire cult is coming.

Darius: I want to kill someone now.

Landarin: go to the battlefield and find Blake, he is not dead, yet my spies told me, so kill him.

Darius turned to dragon form and took flight.

On the battlefield, Greylan disappeared, and Blake took flight to see the battlefield from above, the rain stopped, and the smell of blood was all over the battlefield.

In the air, Blake was looking down on the battlefield, and suddenly he was shot by a big fireball, Darius appeared the fight begun, Blake didn't fully recover from their last fight, so he was going to be beaten!

The two collided in a very hard way Darius bit Blake's wing and cut it off and then Blake turned to smoke and tried to fly, but Darius shot him with fire.

The fire was so dense that the smoke went out, and Blake started falling from the sky, but Darius didn't let him go he flew towards him and bitten his other wing, and he was helpless Blake went down it was over.

Darius flew away and didn't look back he was satisfied with the results.

While Blake was losing horribly the fire cult was winning against Harbinger's forces, red guards were being lit on fire, and the golems melt under heavy fire Harbinger had to retreat, he left Kane to his death Hayland set him on fire his face melted, and he was screaming in great pain.

Harbinger retreated fast just him alone on his horse without any guards, he arrived at the castle and sat there thinking about his great loss and while he was sitting there A window broke next to him, and smoke entered it was Greylan he turned to human and took his sword, and Harbinger was surprised but he took his sword as well and the fight begun Greylan was the master of this kind of fights so it was clear that Greylan will win this fight, they continued to fight each other for ten minutes and Greylan had injured Harbinger several times and he stabbed him in the heart it was over the kingdom fill, and Greylan was the rightful king over this vast land, the warlock bowed to him and what is rest of the red guards bowed as well.

Blake fill from the sky into a field, and he was greatly wounded in his dragon form he stayed there for days unable to move and unconscious.

A boy saw the dragon lying in the field, so he approached it slowly and touched it's face, Blake opened his eyes slowly and saw the boy and the boy was scared as hell.

Blake turned to human form, and he was severely injured the boy ran away and left Blake bleeding.

Blake looked for a house to go to, to get help and he found a nearby house so he stood up barely and started moving towards the house slowly it took him sometimes till he got to the house and he fill a lot, but he stood up and moved forward despite being wounded his will kept him going , he got to the house and knocked slowly the door opened after a minute or so, the boy who was scared looked at Blake then ran away inside the house and called his mother, the mother came quickly, and she saw Blake lying on the front door he was unconscious .

The mother started looking after Blake and attended to his wounds.

While he was asleep Thorn came to him and talked to him.

Thorn: I cannot fight Darius again it will be my demise.

Blake: I won't let him harm anyone else we need to figure out a way to defeat him.

Thorn: maybe if we took his void powers from him we could defeat him.

Blake: but how?

Thorn we need to ask a Warlock in this matter.

Blake then woke up after three days, and he was feeling a bit of pain, but he was alright he thanked the mother and the child and took off.

He was going to the assassins hide out to see Greylan, but he wasn't there he asked around and found out that Greylan is now the king, so he went to the castle to see him.

Greylan: Blake! are you alright?

Blake: I have been better, but it's okay.

Greylan: did you defeat Darius?

Blake: no.

Greylan: that's a shame, but you can defeat him right?

Blake: no, not with his void powers we need a Warlock to ask about that.

Greylan: well I have a Warlock we can ask him.

Greylan sent for the Warlock, and he came real fast.

Warlock: do you need my service, sir?

Greylan: Yes, we need your opinion on something.

Warlock: very well sir ask me what you want.

Greylan: we need to remove void powers from Darius, you know who that is right?

Warlock: of course he is the leader of the dragon order.

Blake: not anymore, I am their leader now.

Warlock: who are you if I may ask?

Blake: I am Blake the elder dragon Thorn.

Warlock: so you are the reason behind Darius getting his void powers then?

Blake: I am afraid so.

Warlock: well to remove this void power you need the gems of Kenway.

Blake: what are those?

Warlock: they are Gems crafted from the light by the first Warlock ever.

Blake: where can I find them?

Warlock: I can give you a map, but the gems are guarded well.

Greylan: no problem just tell us where to find them.

Warlock: give me a moment my lord.

The Warlock left for a moment then came back with a map.

Warlock: here it is the Kenway map, He gave it to Blake.

Blake: It only shows one Gem, and it is in the castle.

Warlock: yes it is in the castle, more like under the castle in the tunnels guarded by Golems I think.

Greylan: we can take them easily.

Blake: yes we can.

Warlock: before you go you need this artifact to put the Gems in, so you can remove the void powers from Darius.

He gave them a weird shaped artifact then he left.

Greylan: shall we?

Blake and Greylan went to the tunnels where they found like thirty Golems, they fought them and defeated them hardly and got the first Gem.

Blake then looked at the map, another Gem appeared it was in Yag harbor in the water, before going to Yag Blake asked Greylan to come with him but Greylan told him that he have a kingdom to look after now so he couldn't come but he told him that Elie was in the fire jungle Blake then thanked Greylan for his help with the golems and left for the fire jungle he flew for two days till he reached his destination.he entered the fire jungle and he was greeted by Hayland and his cult Elie then saw Blake, and she was really happy that he was alive, but she sensed that something was wrong.

Elie: what is wrong?

Blake: Darius defeated me again, I cannot win this fight alone.

Elie: what do you need?

Blake: I am searching for Kenway's gems they will help me remove the void powers from Darius.

Elie: do you have a map?

Blake: yes, and I found the first one.

Elie: how many are there?

Blake: they are just three and this artifact.

Hayland: you need Elie's help then?

Greylan: yes I am afraid so.

Hayland: take care, my child.

Elie then leaves with Blake to Yag harbor.

At Yag harbor, the city was being rebuilt, and the assassins were in charge of it.

They went to the water and dived to a cave under water, they got out of the water in the cave and started searching for the Gem Blake found it, and when he picked it up, a weird sound appeared and lots of undead rose from the ground and started attacking Blake and Elie.

It was a great fight, but Elie had new powers she can now manipulate fire and shoot fire from her hand, but the undead can't be killed easily, so it took them a while, but they got the job done.

They then swam back to the shore and Blake looked at the map again the last Gem was in the Kenway's mountain they were going there when they got attacked by a battalion of void forces!

So they flew away, they couldn't take them all, and they had to go to the mountain so they can defeat Darius at last.

Blake didn't want to fly away, but he was careful because Elie was with him, so he didn't want her to die, so he flew away with her.

The warlock didn't like Greylan, in fact, he hated him for a reason unknown to anyone, Greylan didn't recognize the warlock after all these years, and he was fooled by his acting till the time came for the warlock to stand up and make his move.

It was after Blake had left by three hours or so, the warlock came into the hall of the king where Greylan was standing with some of the assassins he was talking with them about the kingdom affairs and what they will do in the future.

The warlock had his staff with him, and he walked calmly, and then he hit the ground with the staff a pulse of energy came out of it and hit one of the assassins, and he exploded, he was dead.

The other assassins turned to him, but he hit the ground again, and they were dead Greylan stood alone against the warlock, and he could recognize that fighting technic he knew it was Parol .

Parol was an old warlock that once worked with Greylan, they were on a mission to retrieve a lost sword for King Denmor, and they encountered a massive beast, they never saw anything like it.

It was human like but with a great muscle build and its face was like a yeti, and it had big teeth, and it ran on all its four limbs .

Greylan and Parol started fighting this beast, but it was magic resistant , so all of Parol's attacks were useless Greylan couldn't even get close to the beast to attack it.

The beast charged at them and knocked both of them down, it then stood on Parol's body and started smashing it, Greylan could only hear Parol scream, and he thought he was dead!

So he turned to smoke and flew away, he left Parol to die, what he didn't know is that Parol cast a shield spell, so all the yeti's attacks were without any effect, this shield spell allowed Parol to cast a cloaking spell on himself and leave the cave, Parol then moved to Morhen and became the warlock of the king.

He swore that if he ever sees Greylan again, he will kill him.

Parol didn't want to talk he just wanted death to Greylan, and he cast a spell that hit Greylan and made him unable to move or turn to smoke he then came close to him and stabbed him with the end of his staff in the heart slowly Greylan screamed out of pain.

And his eyes began to close slowly; Parol said: I will destroy all you hold dear to you, You have my word.

Greylan died, and the warlock was in charge now the news spread fast.

Landarin was pleased that Greylan is dead, but he was afraid that Blake would find the last Gem and destroy Darius, his strong weapon, so he led his forces to the mountain with Darius and waited for them to come out to kill them.

In the mountain Blake and Elie were looking for the last Gem and Elie found it but as she picked it up a green beam of light appeared, and a big ghost came out of it, it was Kenway the first Warlock.

Elie shot him with fire, but it didn't do anything to him he then started to talk calmly.

Kenway: what brings you two to my tomb?

Blake: we came seeking the last Gem.

Kenway: why?

Blake: we need it to remove void powers from Darius.

Kenway: who is this Darius?

Elie: It's a long story, but to make it short Landarin gave him void powers and we need to remove them from him to defeat him.

Kenway: I can help you.

Kenway then walked with them to the exit of the mountain and then they saw the vast army of Landarin.

Kenway was displeased and angry that they dare to disturb him and disregard the sanctum of his tomb, so he summoned his army of ghosts from all around the void army, they were trapped.

The battle began, and it was a close fight, but then Darius began to breathe fire onto the ghosts, and they were getting killed very easily.

Blake then put the last Gem inside the artifact, it then started to glow, and suddenly it emitted a wave of light which disturbed the void forces and knocked Darius down from the sky.

Darius began to fall from the sky, and his fire began to fade, and his silver scales began to fall off, and he hit the ground really hard the void forces began to lose, and Blake and Elie turned to dragon form and took flight from the top of the mountain Elie went to help the ghosts and Blake went to Darius.

Kenway jumped from the top of the mountain and hit the ground with his staff he killed a lot of the void forces and then he moved toward Landarin.

Kenway: you dare to siege my mountain! , you will die.

The fight began, both of them were strong, but Kenway was stronger, so he hit Landarin with his Wand, and Landarin tried to hit him with his sword but he was a ghost so it didn't matter Kenway then cast a spell that shocked Landarin and he fell to the ground he tried to pick up his sword, but Kenway cast another spell.

The sword shattered, and Landarin was defenseless Kenway then drove the wand into his skull Landarin was dead.

Darius was weak and Blake as well, but they fought each other Darius was on the ground while Blake came from the sky, Darius flew up towards him, and they collided in a very hard way Darius started to bite Blake, but Blake breathed fire in his face, and Blake had a bite of Darius's wing, they each breathed fire onto each other and fell from the sky together.

Darius turned to human, and Blake as well, they took up the swords and started fighting Blake was master of the sword so he used his assassins skills to his advantage he turned to smoke and started beating Darius real hard it was evident that Darius will lose this fight.

Darius tried to stab Blake in the heart but he turned to smoke, and the sword went right through him he then flew behind Darius and cut his right leg of, Darius screamed in pain and fell to the ground, the sword fell from his hand, and he was hopeless, Blake then stood next to him and drove the sword through his chest slowly, blood started coming out from his chest and then Blake pulled the sword out, Darius cried out in pain, Blake then drove the sword through his skull, Darius was dead.

The battle was over, and the void forces had been defeated, Kenway then called his ghosts and returned to the mountain, Elie searched for Blake, and she found him next to Darius's corpse she ran to him.

But he turned to Thorn unwillingly and took off Elie shouted his name, but there was no answer.

Thorn was flying away from the battlefield and Blake was talking to him.

Where are we going? Why can't I control you? Blake asked.

Thorn didn't answer Blake, and he continued to fly towards the north.

Kenway knew that using the gems will have side effects on Blake, but he didn't say anything.

Thorn is driven by an inner desire to go north he flew, tell his wings couldn't fly anymore he then started falling from the sky, and he hit a mountain covered with snow hardly.

When Thorn opened his eyes after awhile, he saw the warlock casting a spell Thorn felt like he was dying and Blake was also feeling the same all turned to black.

After two days Thorn opened his eyes and saw a human lying on the ground it was Blake!! They were separated.

Blake opened his eyes, and he saw Thorn, and he knew that he could no longer turn to dragon form anymore.

Thorn: the warlock did this I saw him.

Blake: why?

Thorn: I don't know, but he clearly has a plan in the making.

Blake: we must stop him!

Thorn: this is not my fight you destroyed my order, and you were the reason for their demise, you did this to us.

Blake: no Darius did!

Thorn: he did it because of you.

Blake: I didn't choose to be linked to you

Thorn: neither did I, this is where I leave you Blake! , I hope I never see you again.

Thorn then flew away and left Blake in the middle of nowhere Blake was weak, and he got unconscious again, it's been a while and Blake was still unconscious, when he woke up his vision was a bit blurry, and all he could see a is a shape of a man standing beside him, the man spoke calmly and said: do you want to live Blake?

Blake answered slowly: who are you?

The man: I said do you want to live?

Blake: yes I want to live.

His vision became clear, and the man was the warlock he looked really happy, and Blake knew that wasn't good for him.

The Warlock said: you will live indeed, but not in this timeline!!!

Chapter Two

The Warlock started making some weird moves, and he was talking in an old language, Blake tried to get up to stop him but he couldn't he was worn out and had no energy left to do anything he started shouting: Stop, stop please what did I do to you?

The Warlock said: You didn't do anything to me, but you were about to, and I like to keep things clean, so you are going to leave now, you can't come back to visit us as well it's over for you here Blake, you know what? I will give you a present for the journey, a language so you can understand what's going around you, and he laughed loudly.

Blake felt strange for a moment, and the world faded away, and he was unconscious again.

The sounds began to wake him up there was a lot of interfering sounds, sounds that Blake never heard before, he opened his eyes, and it was dark, but there was a lot of lights, lights that Blake couldn't know how they were working!

He was laying on his back, and he looked up to the sky, but there were some buildings there, very tall buildings that they reached the sky he was shocked and couldn't understand what was going on.

He got up slowly and started moving towards the lights he was in an alley between two skyscrapers, he got stopped by a man in some weird clothes, and they were rugged as well he had a knife too!

He started shouting, and Blake could understand him strangely, that was the Warlock's present, the man was saying: give me all your money now!

Blake was a bit fuzzy, but he knew that a knife is not a good thing, so he was careful, the man shouted again, but Blake didn't answer him, so he got mad and attacked Blake!

He charged at him with the knife, but Blake turned to smoke, and the man passed right through him then he turned back to human and grabbed the man from behind and broke his neck.

Then he took the knife and took the man's clothes as well since his clothes were bloody, and he felt like his clothes were somewhat different from the man's cloth, he walked towards the lights again and when he reached the end of the alley he saw a street full of people and some weird metal like shapes moving fast in the wide street.

He walked slowly and tried to understand what was going on, he then though he might ask someone from the people on the street, he stopped a man and asked him what was these things in the street the man laughed and said: these are cars, my friend, you are so drunk right now, Blake asked again: what are these cars made for? The man continued to laugh and said they are our transport mate, you get in the car and drive it to where ever you want.

Blake wanted to go to the mountain castle, but he knew that he was no longer in that timeline, so he was condemned to live the rest of his life in this weird place.

The man left Blake and got into a yellow car with a sign on it that says taxi, Blake didn't know what that was, so he continued to move along the street, and he thought that these people are harmless except the man he killed earlier.

But as he thought that he heard a weird noise like a small explosion but it was repeated a lot he looked at the source of the sound, and he saw three masked men with some weird metal things in their hands that were making the sound and some muzzle flash as well.

They were attacking a store of some kind, the people ran away from them, and they were screaming and shouting: help someone stop them, call the police.

The front entrance of the store was made of glass, and it was broken by itself in Blake's eyes nothing hit it, he thought that they must be some warlocks, so he charged at them with the knife! One of them saw him, and he pointed the metal thing at him and bam he was hit by a bullet in the arm, and he went down to the ground, he was bleeding, and he heard the men saying: let's get out of here the police are on their way.

Everything went black and Blake was unconscious.

He woke up in a white room and a white bed, and there was a beeping sound near him, it was coming from a box with some lines and numbers, he got up, and he saw a man sitting next to him, who are you he said?

The man answered: I am Detective David how are you now?

Blake: I am fine, but what happened?

David: you got shot in the arm by some gangbangers.

Blake: those metal things they had in their arms did this to me?

David: metal things? They are called guns!

Blake: Okay now why are you here?

David: some people in the street said that you charged at the gangbangers with a knife, is that correct?

Blake: yes, so?

David: that knife belonged to a man called John Henric he was found dead in an alley near the shooting with his neck broken and with no clothes, do you know anything about that?

Blake: he attacked me with the knife, and I defended myself.

David: well then you admit to your crime that's a first.

Blake: I said he attacked me first!

David: it doesn't matter I see that you are a troublemaker, and you are going to prison for at least ten years or so.

And Blake saw that the best thing to do is to ask David about the new things in this timeline that he doesn't know, and David was willing to answer since he had him anyway and he was going to prison, so it took Blake nearly three days to know everything he needed to know about this timeline and he knew that if he ran away he would be hunted by the police, when he recovered David took him to a nearby police station to take his prints and they found a match with a dead man called Tom it was weird but they enlisted him as an emigrant from Europe and took his prints and photo and asked him about his name, he told them his name was Blake and didn't say a second name, after a couple of nights at the station he got a lawyer and went to court for a few days the judge saw that Blake was not guilty in fact he praised him for being honest and admitting his crime but he had to at least give him a three years sentence for unintended manslaughter with the possibility of early parole release if he showed good behavior, he was then transferred to a minimal security prison since the judge felt like he wasn't a dangerous man, Blake didn't care about the prison name or where it was he knew he had to keep to himself and don't make trouble so he can be released early, he got out of the transport bus and walked with other inmates to the prison gate there was a couple of guards with guns and they didn't treat the inmates well but it was okay, Blake walked slowly and looked around him he could see the courtyard where the inmates have their brake and spend their time away from the cells, he then got to the bath to take a shower it was one of the prison regulations he didn't look at others and kept to himself as he planned, after the bath he put on the prison cloth and got out where a guard showed him to his cell, the cell was nearly empty, only a bed and a toilet, it wasn't fancy but he knew that prison life isn't at all fancy since he spent a while in a maximum security prison back in his timeline Blake flashed back to the time after Greylan had helped him and trained him he was on a mission in Haigen, this was one year after his wife and son died, the mission was simple, steal a golden sword from the temple of Lian which was the high god in the elven culture, the temple was in the mountains of Yaker, Yaker mountains were located away from the elven cities, all elves from all around Haigen were permitted to visit the temple and pray, but no humans were permitted to enter, Blake disguised himself as an elf, he walked on the path to the temple slowly as he was supposed to be an old elf with a staff to lean on, so he walked slowly and carefully he then looked up ahead and saw the temple it was a perfect building, the elven architecture was the best of them all, the building was plated with gold and it was guarded well there was more than ten guards at the gate and even more inside, Blake continued to act as an old man and he managed to fool the guards and they let him in, in the temple there was a lot of elves and the high priest of Lian was talking to them in elven language, Blake didn't waste time he knew that the sword was in the priest's chamber so he waited for the priest to finish and followed him to his chamber Blake entered the chamber and the priest didn't see him, he looked around for the sword and it was hanged on the wall in front of him so he walked to it slowly in order to not make noise so that the priest wouldn't hear him, the priest was writing something on his desk and his back was turned to Blake, Blake was bored of walking slowly so he turned to smoke and flew towards the sword and when he picked it up the priest looked at it and saw him so he called for the guards, Blake was terrified it was only his second mission and he didn't want any trouble with the elf guards so he turned to smoke and flew toward the exit but then the priest said some words in elf language, he was no longer in smoke form!, the three guards charged at him and he didn't have any weapon except the golden sword so he used it to defend himself, he parried of their attacks but they kept attacking from all directions they surrounded him and he got cut in his right arm heavily so the sword fell from his hand he couldn't use it with his left hand only so he was disarmed and surrounded, he felt like this is the end he remembered his son and wife and he was somewhat happy to be able to see them again but the priest told the guards something , they didn't kill Blake, they captured him and sent him to the worst human prison in Haigen.

So this minimum security prison felt like a walk in the park for him, he spent most of his time sitting away from others and didn't talk to anybody it went on like this for months he just kept to himself and others didn't bother him.

He wasn't there to make friends or talk he used his time to clear his mind and to think about what he is going to do after he gets out, he thought about trying to travel back to his timeline but didn't know how. He also didn't bother trying to escape because he had nothing to do on the outside, he didn't even turn to smoke once while he was in prison! He knew turning to smoke will attract attention, and he didn't want that, it's been almost one year and Blake got his early parole he wasn't happy about it but what can he do.

Blake had two options in his mind either be a good guy or a bad guy in this timeline he knew he couldn't turn to dragon form anymore, but he could still turn to smoke, and this can come in handy.

He had nowhere to live, so he needed to look for work, to get money and live a good life.

So Blake started looking for a regular job but no one hired him because he had nowhere to live and because he just got out of prison, he stayed in alleys for the night and slept there he turned to the old habit of stealing he got some money from being a thief he was a good pickpocket.

So he went to the subway stations where there are lots of people, and he would get like a hundred dollars a day since he was a professional pickpocket and even when he got caught he would just turn into smoke and fly away.

It was a good job for him he started saving and rented a room, he was walking in the subway station trying to pick a target, and he saw a woman dressed in black he didn't see her face, but he saw her bag which was opened so he went for it! He moved towards the woman and when he got close he reached for her purse, but she grabbed his hand and turned around!

She was Elie!!!

Blake was shocked and dazzled by her being there with him in this timeline, but she talked to him calmly: what do we have here? A pickpocket that's a new one were you trying to steal this purse from me, mister?

Blake said: it's me Elie do you not remember me?

She said: who is Elie and who are you?

Blake then figured that she wasn't Elie that he knew she just looked like her like there was a man who looked like him but was dead, he turned to smoke and flew away.

After a few days, he returned to the subway station to pickpocket some people, and he noticed these men wearing black suits and having in ear buds they looked like bodyguards, but there was something wrong he could feel it.

Blake saw that he needed to get out of there and he started walking towards the exit but the men followed him and started running after him the station was full of people, and it was hard to maneuver so he tried to turn to smoke but he couldn't!

He didn't know why yet, but he had to run, the chase didn't last long since there was too many of them and they had all the exits covered, so they got Blake, one of them hit him on his head with the back of his gun, and he was unconscious.

He walked up in a mansion he was in front of a massive glass wall; he was tied to a chair and surrounded by many black suited men he looked at the stairs in front of him, and he saw an old man coming down the stair.

The old man approached Blake and told him to turn to smoke, Blake didn't know how did this old man know about his ability, but he tried, and nothing happened he said: I can't what did you do to me?

The old man answered: nothing we didn't do anything but; he took a transmitter out of his pocket, this thing did.

Blake: what is it?

The old man: it's a type of transmitter that prevents you from shifting forms, Blake!

Blake: what the hell? How do you know my name?

The old man: do you not recognize me, Blake?

Blake: no, who are you?

The old man replied: well you knew me as a child, your child!!!!

Blake: what is this nonsense my child died in front of me and even if you are who you say you are how are you still alive all these years and how are you in this timeline?

The old man: It doesn't matter, I can send you back to your timeline

Blake: how?

The old man: it's easy in a blink I can send you back, just say the word.

Blake was thinking about what this old man said and as he was thinking the glass behind the old man broke!

Ten men and a woman jumped into the mansion they were well prepared and had lots of equipment they started shooting the guards, and there was a big firefight the old man disappeared and Blake knocked the chair down on its side to avoid getting hit by bullets some of the attacking men died,

All the guards were dead, and the rest of the attacking men surrounded Blake and the Woman came near him and set him free and they grabbed him and moved in diamond formation to keep him safe. They encountered some guards but they killed them, and they went outside the mansion into a helicopter and they flew away under heavy fire Blake was looking at the woman with great surprise it was Elie again!

Blake: you are not Elie are you?

The woman: no, but I know you.

Blake: how?

The woman: I know you because I read the book of the dragon order.

Blake: what?

The woman: after you had disappeared Elie made a book about you and your efforts to save the kingdom that was before the rune wars.

Blake: runic wars? I don't understand.

The woman: the warlock summoned the old runic army and marched towards the dragon castle this was after your disappearance by one month.

Blake: what happened in these runic wars who won?

The woman: it doesn't matter now all you need to know is that your son is the evil that walks on earth, and he needs to be stopped.

Blake: what?

The woman: with you around he is not an immortal you are his father you can kill him the book says that you can and you will.

Blake: why will I kill my son?

The woman: you will understand once we meet the elder monk, you know him.

Blake: I don't know how is this possible? , how do you know about me and I am from another timeline?

The woman: back in 2010 we invented a time transport device it allowed us to travel between timelines and interact with people there, in 2013 a group of four men went to your timeline, and saved the elder monk from your son and got him here to protect him till your son dies.

Do you understand now?

Blake: so why do you need to save this elder monk?

Why is he so important?

The woman: when you meet him you will know.

The helicopter took a fair amount of time to get to the destination, but it wasn't over they landed in a small airport where there was an airplane waiting for them.

It was terribly quiet, and the wind was loud and violent, Blake sensed that something was wrong he was about to warn the woman, but it was too late when the helicopter touched the ground a sniper shot hit two men that were sitting near Blake!

Blood splattered on Blake's face and the woman was surprised but there was no time, the helicopter driver got shot right after the two men, and his copilot was wounded greatly.

There was two men left and the woman; the copilot was bleeding horribly but he was still alive Blake couldn't leave him!

So he told the rest to cover him, they all jumped out of the helicopter and the men started shooting at random positions on the hills where they suspected the presence of enemy snipers.

The woman took cover behind the chopper while Blake and the two men were in front of it, Blake opened the cockpit door and pulled the copilot out, but the snipers were shooting all around him,

One of the two men got hit the other started running away and got shot in the back, the copilot was dead in Blake's arms, so he turned to smoke and went behind the helicopter where he found the woman.

Blake: what are we going to do?

The woman: I can teleport us to the airplane, though the distance is vast it will drain my powers for a bit, but I can manage let's go, hold my hand tight.

Blake blinked and then he was in the cockpit of the airplane with the woman, the woman started the engines, and the plane started moving slowly while the snipers were shooting at the cockpit!

Their aim was off because the distance was tripled so they couldn't hit Blake and the woman the plane picked up speed and the woman pulled the stick real hard, they were in the air headed to the elder monk.

Blake: where are we headed? Is it far?

The woman: we, my friend are headed to Japan!

Blake: where is that?

The woman: away, very far away.

Blake fell asleep, and he dreamt about his son, when he died in front of him or did he now, he was not sure.

Blake was asleep for who knows how long, he opened his eyes slowly, and he could see the peaks of mountains covered in snow, and there was a keep hidden on the side of one mountain.

The woman: we are here.

Blake: how are you going to get down there, there is no airport.

The woman: ever heard off parachutes?

Blake: Oh, I don't have to use those.

The woman: how are you going to get down there then?

Blake: I don't need a parachute I can fly you know.

The woman left the steering wheel, and the plane started going down.

The woman: we don't have much time! , let's get to the door.

Blake and the woman moved to the back of the plane, and she opened the door after she put on the parachute, the plane was shaking very hard, and it was now or never.

The woman: see you down there.

Blake and the woman jumped, Blake turned to smoke and flew towards the keep and the woman opened her parachute and was headed to the keep as well, Blake felt the wind and the snow he was a bit happy about it.

Blake reached the keep first, and when he landed he saw lots of masked men wearing black costumes and armed with swords, the men didn't attack him, but they didn't let him pass as well.

The woman soon arrived as well; she said something to the men it was in Japanese, but Blake could understand it,

She said I came with Blake, the shadow master!

They opened the gates and escorted them to the main hall where they were going to meet the elder monk.

They waited a bit and Blake was looking around at the decorations of the hall; it was decorated with swords and armors, but there was this sword made from pure steel, and there were some engraved words on it Blake approached it carefully and read those words (the shadows guide me).

It was a beautiful sword, but then he saw a familiar sword it was the golden sword from the temple while Blake was shocked to see it again a great door opened and made a sound that cough Blake's attention.

The Elder Monk came in, and it was another shock to Blake, it was Greylan, the master of the shadow assassins!!

Greylan: Hello my dear Blake.

Blake: how are you still alive?

Greylan: it is good to see you again Blake.

Blake: answer me, how are you still alive?

Greylan: is it a bad thing that I am still alive?

Blake: no, I am glad that you are still alive I just need to know how.

Greylan: Okay my dear, I will tell you, but we hadn't much time after you and Elie left for Yag harbor a ghost from the past cough up to me the warlock was someone I knew before, and he insisted on killing me.

But I reached out to the essence of the earth and connected to the spirits of the ancient assassins, it took me a while to come back from the dead, but I did it, the spirits gave me the one time ticket to cheat death!

It was the ultimate assassin technique I didn't teach it to anyone because it was forbidden, but I had to use it, after connecting to the spirits they showed me the future, and it was dark, so I had to come back.

Blake: how did you end up here in this timeline?

Greylan: it was the four brave men who saved me from your son in our timeline and got me here in this safe keep away from the outside world.

Blake: so are you immortal?

Greylan: yes I am afraid so.

Blake: but why? , What happened to you?

Greylan: the elder assassins gave me this chance to redeem myself.

Blake: is it bad?

Greylan: yes you can't imagine how it's like to live forever alone and in hiding.

Blake: why is my son doing this to you? Why does he want you dead?

Greylan: your son he is a vessel for a greater threat, we call him Al Modamer which means the destroyer!

Blake: what does he destroy exactly?

Greylan: his purpose is to destroy all timelines and end life as we know it!

Blake: but why? And why is it my son? , how is it possible?

Greylan: he is an elven sage, he was consumed by darkness long ago, so he practiced dark magic and allowed himself to be immortal! Denmor didn't like that, so he ordered Kalra to kill him he didn't know he was immortal, and when Kalra killed Al Modamer in his body his soul jumped to Kalra, and he controlled him until he saw your son.

He jumped to your son and left Kalra to his soul again; he then traveled from your home to another timeline, and that's why you couldn't find him or his body.

Blake: so he can jump between vessels?

Greylan: no he cannot jump between vessels, Kalra was only a carrier, not a vessel, he didn't lose his soul he was just controlled by Al Modamer.

On the other hand, your son's soul is gone he was too young, too weak to fight this demon. Also, Al Modamer couldn't make anyone a vessel, only your son was fit for this if your son didn't exit Al Modamer would be dead.

Blake: what do you mean?

Greylan: this was a prophecy long ago, that an evil spirit will control the pure heart of a young boy, this boy happened to be your son, unfortunately.

Blake: I can't believe this, how did you know about this prophecy?

Greylan: Unfortunately this prophecy was mine I was supposed to protect the boy from evil and make sure he was safe, but I failed!

Blake: why didn't you tell me this before?

Greylan: it was of no use, your son was already controlled by Al Modamer.

Blake: I trust you Greylan, and I will always do, now I understand a bit, tell me what happened to our timeline?

Greylan: after the rune wars the dragon order dismantled and all dragons disconnected from their human form.The runic army disappeared, and the Warlock as well, no one knows what happened to them.

All humans perished, and it became a wild place, lots of monsters and dragons, all this was the work of Al Modamer, he disconnected the dragons from their human form and convinced them to fight each other.

Blake: I don't understand what he meant.

Greylan: what did he tell you?

Blake: he; there that he was going to send me back to my timeline, how is that possible?

Greylan: he can open portals between timelines, but he couldn't send you to the past he was manipulating you.

Blake: why?

Greylan: he wanted to get rid of you because he knows that you are the one able to kill him in this timeline.

Blake: I am not sure that I can, in fact, I think I am can't!

Greylan: you can do anything you want! , are we done catching up?

Blake: do you have any food in this place?

Greylan: of course, come along, Alex do come too.

The woman was called Alex, the three of them went to eat and have some sleep.

Blake: just one question before I go to sleep!

Greylan: ask away.

Blake: how does Alex teleport?

Greylan: I taught her that, I will teach you too.

Blake: It's good to see you again Greylan.

Greylan: you too Blake, have some rest now.

Blake, guided by one of the ninjas, arrived at a bedroom, the room was slightly lit, and the bed was not so big yet not small, it didn't have much decoration, only a chair, and a small table, Blake was tired, and he fell asleep right away.

In the next morning Blake got up, and there was a ninja waiting for him outside the door, the ninja told Blake that master Greylan is waiting for him in the courtyard.

The ninja told Blake to follow him, Blake and the ninja walked till they got to the courtyard; the ninja stopped, and Blake stood in front of him looking at Greylan.

Before he could say a word the ninja kicked him on his back, and he fell to the ground it was one hell of a kick, while Blake was on the ground he turned his head and looked at the ninja but he wasn't there, he got up and talked to Greylan.

Blake: what is going on?

Greylan: your training has begun, defend yourself!

Greylan then disappeared, and the ninjas started flowing into the courtyard, they were all armed with swords yet Blake had nothing on him, they charged at him!

He turned to smoke, flew behind one of them quickly and disarmed him, got his sword and started parrying of the attacks, but the ninjas weren't missing around he got cut in his arms and legs!

One of them almost cut Blake's head off he knew he had to kill them first so he started attacking, there were around ten ninjas in the courtyard, he started turning to smoke, evade attacks and then strike back hard and severe he stabbed the first ninja in his heart and took the sword out, turned to smoke and flew above another ninja and drove the sword through his skull, he then left that sword and took another one from yet another ninja, he then cut off the ninja's leg, and he got blood all over his face he took another sword from another ninja.

He now had two swords, and started parrying attacks left and right, then cutting a leg off or an arm or even a head!, he shifted from human to smoke regularly, but then one ninja had a device with him and turned it on.

Blake could no longer turn to smoke, and he got bested by numbers, and he got stabbed in the heart!

When he shouted out of pain everything turned white and then he could see the courtyard, and there were no dead ninjas around him, and he was perfectly fine, Greylan came and told him to sit down.

Greylan: those were some excellent fighting techniques, but yet you depended on shifting forms which can be easily countered by a simple device.

Blake: what could I do? , they were too many.

Greylan: there will always be too many, and you should learn a new technique to help you fight better.

Blake: Okay what would it take to learn this new technique?

Greylan: nothing you just listen carefully, teleportation is so simple you just shift places like you shift forms, you become one with the air, but all this is dependent on your focus level, and one more thing you can teleport to places you see only! , so will you try?

Blake: okay but I think I didn't learn anything.

Greylan: just try and know that you can do anything you want in this timeline you are free of all limits.

Blake: I am free of all limits I understand that but why is Alex free as well? , isn't this her timeline?

Greylan: I am afraid not she is just like you but from another timeline a third one who got destroyed as well.

Blake: I am going to try it now, but after am done you will tell me Alex's story, okay?

Greylan: okay.

Blake stood up and looked at the other side of the courtyard he then tried to teleport, but nothing happened, he tried again and again, but there was nothing happening!

Greylan told him to focus, and he started focusing on the position he wanted to teleport to, he concentrated all his energy and then he did it he teleported to the position he was looking at, he then started teleporting all around the courtyard, he was happy that he managed to do it, he teleported back to Greylan and sat down.

Blake: now tell me Alex's story.

Greylan: Alex came from an advanced timeline where they knew how to jump between timelines, but it was forbidden, and when Alex was only eight Al Modamer came, and her timeline was at an end!

She saw her family get killed in front of her by the hands of Al Modamer himself she made an oath that she will not rest until he is dead, so she broke the rules and timeline jumped her.

She spent more than thirty years in this timeline planning and helping people to realize that there are other timelines she helped the brave four men to timeline jump to our timeline.

Blake: so how long have you been here?

Greylan: fifteen years, I have been here for fifteen years!

Blake: so I didn't jump in time that much only fifteen years?

Greylan: no I came here fifteen years ago, but I lived after you disappeared for another fifteen years, so you jumped thirty years!

Blake: that explains why you are so old now.

Greylan: I lived long enough.

Blake and Greylan stood up and went into the keep; there they met Alex she was anxious.

Alex: our spies told me that Al Modamer is close to finding our position, it won't be long we need to prepare.

Blake was about to talk, but then they heard a helicopter, and there was shooting in the courtyard, Blake, and Alex ran outside, there was a helicopter with a machine gun on board, and It was dropping soldiers in the courtyard, they saw a roof gets blown away by bullets.

The soldiers were highly trained, and they were killing every ninja they see, Alex teleported to the helicopter and killed the gunner, started shooting the soldiers but the pilot flew away. So she had to teleport back into the courtyard, Blake charged in, and they were shooting at him, but he kept teleporting all around.

They couldn't hit him he grabbed a sword from one of the ninjas dead body and teleported to the soldiers he was furious and violent as well he cut off arms and legs and heads as well Alex was doing the same to another group of soldiers.

But the soldiers kept coming through the gates, Blake and Alex had to retreat to the keep where they found Greylan covered in blood, and his right arm was cut, and a sword was coming out of his chest he was dying!

Blake saw Al Modamer leaving the place through a window he disappeared; Blake ran to Greylan, and he was shocked and afraid that he would lose his mentor and friend !

Greylan grabbed him and whispered in his ears: when the time comes you will know what to do, and remember his life is connected to your son's.

Greylan said his last words and his eyes closed slowly, he was dead, Alex was frustrated, and she told Blake that all is done now, the keep was destroyed, and Greylan was dead it's just a matter of time till Al Modamer destroy this timeline as well.

There was still a lot of soldiers in the keep and Blake, and Alex had to escape, they ran towards a window, and they jumped, they started teleporting from one peak to another, and they did this for like an hour or so. Finally, they reached a populated area, Blake and Alex had to get out of Japan since it wasn't safe anymore, Alex managed to contact one of her agents which gave them some money to buy plane tickets and leave Japan.

Blake and Alex didn't talk at all at this time, Alex was frustrated and felt like she couldn't fulfill her oath, while Blake felt sorrow for his old friend and mentor, he was thinking about what Greylan said.

On the plane, nothing happened at all they just sat there, and each one of them was deep thinking about their problems, they reached New York at night.

Blake and Alex got into a taxi once they got out of the airport, their destination was a safe house in Chinatown, the journey was a bit dull, and Blake was thinking how Al Modamer knew their every move and attacked them, how did he know where Greylan was, how?

Blake was left with one possibility that Alex could be a traitor, but he kept thinking why she would do this?

They arrived at the safe house and entered, it was a mess and torn apart it looked like someone was searching for something, they found several dead bodies and blood was all over the place, Alex was not shocked at all she turned to Blake and said: this is because of you why did I save you? For what reason? My work has been for nothing, my organization is destroyed, I have nothing left, you should have died back in your timeline and before she could end the sentence a red dot was on her head, Blake didn't have time to react, and he heard the glass of the window near Alex shatter and she was shot in the head!

Her blood splashed on the wall and some of it got on Blake's face and shirt, it was like her brain exploded! Alex was no more, and Blake was under heavy fire, he started running to the door, and all things around him was getting shot at, when he finally got to the door he was jumped be a hefty armored man and got hit by the end of his machine gun on his face, he was knocked out.

Blake opened his eyes, and it was dark but with a soft light he could see a figure of a man, he was in great pain, but he asked who was it, the man answered: my dear father do you not recognize me? Or the light is too soft for your eyes, they turned on all the lights and Blake could see Al Modamer, his son standing there and there is a lot of armored men with guns, it was a big room, and it seemed to be a place of torture, there was a lot of blood stains on the ground and walls, there were some instruments covered in blood, Blake knew this wasn't going to be fun, for him at least.

An ugly man approached Blake and said: are you ready for what is coming?

Blake didn't answer, Al Modamer said: I will leave you to it Zerch, he then left.

The lights were turned off again, and it was just the soft light which didn't allow Blake to see much so he couldn't teleport away, he tried to shift to smoke form but the device which prevents him from shifting was with Zerch, so he had no way out of this, Zerch picked up a hammer and approached Blake he then said: do you think we are going to torture you for information? Blake didn't answer again; Zerch said: well you are dead wrong it's just for fun!

Zerch seemed weird and somewhat unbalanced he was crazy, or that's what Blake thought, Zerch didn't waste much time he began at once, he started by hammering Blake's knees several times, but he didn't break them he was just hurting him he then started hitting Blake in the face with the hammer and Blake was unable to respond since his hands were tied up and his legs as well, although he could break his hands free he waited for the right time, and he took another few hits until Zerch came too close to him that's when he hit him with his head in his nose and broke free the guards were about to move but Blake reached for the device on Zerch and took it, he then deactivated it and turned to smoke!

Instead of leaving Blake knew he had to kill them so that he could get to Al Modamer, although his legs were hurting him he had to summon up all his strength and kill them, so he shifted back to human form picked up the hammer from Zerch's hand and shifted back to smoke flew towards the guards, and he shifted back, hit one of them in the eye, it exploded and the guard fell to the ground in pain, he then picked up his gun and shifted back to smoke the guards were firing at him but he was in smoke form, so it didn't matter he then flew behind them really fast they couldn't react, and he shifted to human form shot two guards in the head and turned back to smoke, there was two guards left and Zerch, a guard turned on the light so that he could see the smoke, Blake was able to see the whole room and could teleport anywhere In it, so he shifted to human form and teleported to one of the guards shot him in the stomach and then shot him again in the head, he then teleported to the other one and the gun was empty so he hit him with the back of the gun in the face, Zerch was the only one left he stood up and said: you wouldn't kill me I have information! Blake picked up the hammer and threw it at Zerch it hit his left knee he screamed out of pain then he fell down on his right knee, he said: please don't kill me I know how to kill Al Modamer.

Blake: then talk!

Zerch: you are his father right? You could kill yourself, and he will not be born!

Blake knew that was not possible since they are in the future, not the past and not in their timeline as well so he knew that Zerch was missing with him so he picked up the hammer once more and started smashing his head with it, when he finished Zerch had no face left and he was dead, Blake then got out of the room, and he was in the mansion once more but there was no one there, except AL Modamer he was waiting for him to come, he then said if you want to end this follow me!

Al Modamer then opened a portal and walked into it, he was gone, Blake rushed towards the portal and he entered, he found himself in a weird place, another timeline maybe it was snowy and icy, it was freezing, there was nothing there, just mountains and snow, he started walking aimlessly until he saw Al Modamer walking towards another portal he ran towards him but he got hit in his stomach by a gigantic hand from behind a rock he fell down on his back and looked towards the rock, a white creature walked from behind the rock, and it was a gigantic Yeti, the Yeti had a scar on his right eye, and his mouth was stained with blood, he rushed towards Blake and he was about to smash him with both its hands but Blake turned to smoke and the Yeti hit the ground, when the Yeti hit the ground there was a loud sound, the snow began to move quickly and fall towards them Blake ran as quickly as he can and the yeti was not so quickly he got covered with snow and Blake was about to get covered as well but he teleported to the portal at the last second, he then entered the portal and he found himself in a rather familiar place it was his timeline he was in Yag harbor, the city was demolished and empty it was all in flames, the city was burning, Blake wandered in the city and he looked around, all he could see was burning houses and dead bodies, Blake was devastated he knew that his timeline was destroyed, but he didn't see what happened, he then hears a dragon roar and

a dragon showed up from behind a mountain, the dragon flew towards Blake and Blake started to see it clearly, it was Thorn!

Thorn the immortal dragon landed in front of Blake he started talking with Blake he said: Oh Blake, you are still alive what a surprise.

Blake didn't answer he was looking at the next portal which was behind Thorn by a couple of meters; Thorn seemed a bit angry, and he said: when I left you back then I left you for dead why aren't you dead?

Blake: does it matter?

Thorn: it matters because what I want I usually get and I want you dead, so it seems that I have to do it myself!

Thorn then opened his mouth and breathed fire onto Blake; Blake teleported away from the fire, and he knew he couldn't kill Thorn he is immortal, so he had to get to the portal.

Thorn made a sound loud enough it hurt Blake's ears, and then dragons started coming from all around, the sky was filled with dragons and Blake knew he was in trouble, but he knew he just needed to get to the portal, so he teleported behind Thorn and started running towards the portal but suddenly a dragon flew down from the sky and picked Blake up with his legs and flew up in the sky then left him to fall to his death.

Blake was in the air falling very fast he saw a dragon fly by him, so he teleported to its back and then the dragon felt him so it flipped around and Blake fell again but he knew that this was his only way, since he can't turn to smoke in this altitude It was way higher than the plane jump he did in Japan.

He will not be able to fight the air current so he teleported to another dragon and another till he was close to the ground he turned to smoke and flew towards the portal he entered it, and he found himself back in our timeline, Al Modamer was waiting for him, and he stabbed him in the chest! Blake cried out of pain, and he fell back into the portal.

He was still conscious, but the vision was a bit blurry he can see a figure of a man, but he can't see details at all the man put Blake on a wooden sheet and started dragging him, he couldn't move.

He could only scream from the pain he was bleeding badly, so he passed out.

Blake opened his eyes, and he could see a sealing, and he looked around, he was in a small cottage.

There was an old man with a long gray beard he seemed calm and happy; Blake looked at his chest he was no longer bleeding!

And there was no wound at all the old man had a staff of some sort Blake though it was magical and he was correct the old man said: Don't worry son you are all good.

Blake: how did you save me?

The old man: I used the magic of course, so I know who you are you are Blake am I right?

Blake: yes, how do you know me?

The old man: you are well known in this timeline and time.

Blake: where am I?

The old man: you are in your old timeline, and you may have seen the dragons, but we still live here.

Blake: how? Why don't the dragons attack?

The old man: they don't know where we are, and besides we are just old men and women with some magical abilities so we can cloak our place and they can't see it.

Blake: Okay, now I need to get back to the other timeline can you help me?

The old man: yes of course but how do you intend to kill AL Modamer? If I may ask.

Blake: I don't know yet but I have to try at least, or all the timelines will be destroyed.

The old man: we are trying to figure out his weaknesses, but we couldn't find any, yet.

Blake: I have an idea, can you send me back in time in this timeline?

The old man: I never tried it before, but I think I can, why?

Blake: just do it, and may I get a sword or something?

The old man: okay as you wish, but we have no swords here, but know that once you time travel, there is no coming back.

Blake: I know, just do it.

Blake then told the old man a particular time and place to send him to and the old man couldn't do the spell on his own, so they both walked outside the cottage, and the old man gathered all men and women of the village.

They stood all around Blake and started the spell, they all knew that this spell would lift the cloaking spell, and they would be vulnerable to the dragons, but they knew that this was the only way to stop AL Modamer and end this once and for all.

The dragons began to attack the village and Blake could hear the people scream, but the circle around him continued the spell, the village was lit on fire, and the dragons were nearing Blake's location but the spell completed and he was gone.

Blake opened his eyes, and he could see his old house, this was a day before the elf guards attacked them; he was about to approach the house when he heard a voice saying: I will not leave you, Blake, you will not stop me!

It was Al Modamer he was right behind him, he tried to stab Blake once more, but he turned to smoke quickly and then he turned around Al Modamer and disarmed him, then he took his sword and drove it into his heart!

But nothing happened Al Modamer looked at Blake and said: you can't kill me I am immortal and he punched Blake in the face Blake was thrown away.

He hit the wall of his old house and fell to the ground, his family got out of the house to see what is going on the younger Blake saw Blake, and he was shocked!

He looked at Al Modamer and knew that they were in trouble so he was about to run away with his family but then Al Modamer rushed at him and punched him in the stomach he was hurt terribly.

Blake knew that if the young Blake was killed he will not exist, so he teleported behind Al Modamer and got the sword out of his heart he cut off his arm Al Modamer was in great pain, but his hand will regrow in a bit so he hit Blake with his other hand and Blake was knocked back and he hit a nearby tree, all this happened in front of Blake's son and wife and the young Blake as well, his son was terrified, and his wife was crying because her husband was hurt.

The young Blake gathered his strength and picked up a spear that was leaning on his house and threw it at Al Modamer but he dodged it, and it pierced Blake's chest, Blake cried out in pain and he thought that it was over but at this moment Blake knew what Greylan meant when he told him: when the time comes you will know what to do.

He had to kill his son to kill Al Modamer! But that wasn't what bothered Blake he was morose that he would kill him in front of his mother and father, and he knew that the young Blake knew that he was him, how can he explain this to his younger self?

At the same time AL Modamer knew if he kills the younger Blake there will be no older Blake and that he would win, so Al Modamer started walking towards the young Blake and he didn't even need a sword to kill him.

He grabbed him and right before he rips his heart out of his chest, Blake gathered all his strength and pulled the spear out of his chest then he thought about throwing the spear at his son but what if he missed? He will be dead, so he chose a safer way to do it, but this way was going to be painful as hell to him!

Blake teleported to the sword that was lying on the ground behind Al Modamer, he picked it up then teleported to his son, he was bleeding out fast but he had to do it, he then looked at his young son and said: sorry my son! , and he drove the sword through his son's heart! His wife said: no my son! And the young Blake cried out of sorrow and grief, the tears dropped slowly from Blake's eyes, and he felt that a part of his soul was ripped out, Al Modamer looked at what Blake had done and knew he was dead!

His hand weakened, and he dropped the young Blake from his hand, then his body began to burn, and he screamed out of pain, then he turned to ashes he was dead!

Al Modamer was dead and all timelines were saved, the young Blake ran towards Blake and his wife also ran towards him they wanted to kill him but he was already dying!

Blake said: forgive me please, I had to kill my son in front of my wife and my younger self I am really sorry but this is the only way it could have ended the young Blake was sorrowful, and he wanted to avenge his son, but he knew that this man was him he looked like him but older, and his wife also knew that, they just didn't know what to do.

Blake was breathing his last breath, and he closed his eyes slowly, and he died!

The End.

1

