 
# It's...Simply A Young Person's Guide To God

Frances Munro

Published by Frances Munro at Smashwords

Copyright 2013 Frances Munro

Discover other titles by Frances Munro at Smashwords

Smashwords Edition License Notes

This eBook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This book may not be resold of given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of the author

## It's...Simply A Young Person's Guide To God

## By Frances Munro

Table of Contents

### Introduction

### The God factor - True or False

### Understanding the World's Balance

### Using Your God Given Senses

### The God Factor - Your Guide for Life

### Modern Reasoning vs Instincts

### God's Credentials

### Using The God Factor

### How to Achieve a Good Life

### Measuring Your 'Feel Good' Factor

### Don't Be Put Off

### Does God Benefit Your Life?

### Your Own Expectations in Life

### Life's Problems

### Life's Lessons

### Tools for a Better Day

### Believing in God (by whatever name)

### Belief in God Can Affect Your Life

### How to be a More Spiritual Person

### Bad Days

### Prayer Maker

### The Inspiration that is God

### Advice for the Young Life Traveller

### My Message to You

### Glossary
### About The Author

### Other Titles by the Author

## Introduction

Living life to the full, (and not just acting it out according to others' needs for them), is just a dream for many young people. They can't see how much power they hold within them. They haven't been shown, or have found that special switch that can change their lives and help them to aspire to a great future. The switch I talk about is the God Energy switch.

I have found that the word God affects people in various ways. And yet just by getting hung up on a name people can overlook the incredible value of what it actually represents.

You may have already switched off because you think this is going to be churchy. It's not. Anything but! However, the choices remain with you throughout.

In this book, I ask you not to be ruled by labels but to accept that the concept of a living God Energy exists and it is a very real Factor within your life, and I aim to explain it in a way that you can see that it is a working Energy that is there for you to call on.

This energy did not exist when the world was created in the Big Bang, because for a very long time after that event this planet was a very sterile place. Then came the time for life to be created and the energy then stepped in. This energy, which goes by many names such as God / The God Factor / The God Energy began the work of Creation.

On the subject of names, I don't want you to be confused by this. Remember, a name is purely a label. The way you look at that name decides how good / bad / powerful /ineffective you see what it represents.

My father was named Robert, but friends called him Bob, I knew him as father, or dad, he was also husband to his wife, and to some people, Mr Audsley. And yet the strange thing is that all these labels referred to the same person.

It's the same with the name God!

God is often seen as a word used mainly by Christians and some people who don't attend church feel maybe that they shouldn't use it or it's not relevant to their life.

Some will deny that huge Creative Power even though they unknowingly use God's Energy.

Some call on It, but they refer to it as a Universal Energy, Divine Light, Source, Divine Essence etc, in fact anything to avoid the word God and yet they draw it to their personal needs.

Some need to differentiate between the assumed Male Energy and Female Energy, so they refer to Father God and Mother God.

Some may see God as a ruling force, and as they want complete control over their lives they back away altogether.

The truth of the package is that:

You plus GOD* equals a Powerful Working Relationship.

*By whatever name.

I'm going to tell you how to make the most of your life by using that formula in a simple and effective way. No frills. No fuss. There are those add ons if you want to have them, but they're not necessary to the basic package.

## The God Factor – True or False

There are many adults and children who will argue that God does not exist because they cannot see how it is possible in a world that experiences good and bad. Surely a God would eliminate all that is bad. People may try to persuade you that they are right, but you need to form your own opinions and ideas about God.

If you tried to describe to someone how God's presence helps in your life, they may not recognise how it would help them because they probably live a different life to you. Some would understand but others wouldn't. Also, you've probably found as I do at times that if a person doesn't want to hear what you are saying, maybe because it bores them or even frightens them to think outside their normal run of thoughts, then they will ignore you. But don't be put off because everyone including you can have their own feelings on subjects and you don't have to change just to suit other people. It is really important that you follow the beliefs and pathways that are right for you in your life, as long as you follow a good path.

Some prefer to feel that they have complete control over their life and allowing space for a God Energy would not permit that. But what they don't understand is that God is there to help you to achieve your targets and live a better life. Ultimately you have control because you have to put things into action for things to change. That Universal Energy of God will help but it won't do things for you. There's no sitting down taking the easy route here! But then if you don't take part you can't achieve the satisfaction of success, can you?

So don't settle for second best when, with a little more flexibility, you can hit first?

I feel it is sad for anyone who will not accept that the creative energy of God exists as they will never know how it powers you up. They may think they are complete and they may not expect more than they have, but ultimately they will lack that vital spark which comes only from the God Factor.

They will not experience that added boost of strength, energy and understanding, that ease of direction, that help to find answers or the glow of achieving a result which is beyond that which they'd hoped for. They will not feel the buzz it brings for a quality life.

And yet just by opening their minds and their options, by widening their focus and allowing themselves a freedom of understanding, they can change that, and transform their lives. It's as simple as that.

You can accept or reject what I tell you, but there's nothing lost in giving a go to believing in God if you don't already. I would be very surprised if after a few months you weren't feeling altogether different. But let your soul decide and follow your feelings. It doesn't lie. You will know by the gut feeling (that feeling you get in your stomach when you feel good or bad about something) and not by your mind which has to have a reason for every decision.

## Understanding the World's Balance

The world is made up of an equal and opposing force of good and evil which means it has both good and bad within it, but God has ultimate control and can bring the Energy of Light to even the darkest situation. Everyone in the world has free will. Because of that, God cannot force anyone to do anything.

You could say that He is an 'Equal Opportunities God'. Everyone is powered up by Him and He trusts them to use that power for good, but He is aware that as there is a mix of good and evil within the world, a lot of what you and I learn with be through our mistakes. People may also talk a lot about what needs to be done in the world whether it's where you live or in other areas or countries, but they don't always act on their words and so things don't get done when they ought to.

When the human race was young, many centuries ago everyone relied greatly on their instincts and they would not have put so much emphasis on reasoning out things. There wasn't the scientific knowledge then to challenge statements and people lived so much more by their senses than they do now. It was normal to them.

God's Signs - Instincts, Intuition and Gut Feelings

The three descriptions in this title portray your automatic reaction to a situation. You hear, you see, you feel by touching, you smell things and you can taste. These are readily accepted senses and they allow you to respond immediately to everyday experiences. So do your instincts.

When you cross a road, half way across you know instinctively whether you are on the right foot for stepping up on to the pavement. It may not matter too much if you use the other foot, but you can often find that you have one particular foot you lead with, and you are more comfortable using that.

You may put something down half on the table and instinctively know it's going to fall off, if you don't push it further on. Ignore the message and it will.

You may meet someone who smiles and says all the right things, but something inside you tells you there is something wrong. You don't feel right with them. You are using the sense that has been with humankind over many centuries. The more you pay attention to it, the less complicated life will be because God is guiding you in the simplest way.

God gave you these senses as built in skills, not as add ons that are available to some people but not others. Everyone has them and the skills are there to encourage you to work smarter at life and enjoy what it brings you.

Scientists came later. Now I'm not saying that science came later. It didn't. Science is all part of the original picture and it plays a valuable role in our understanding. But it is necessary to keep a balanced picture and this got lost when people's questioning minds started to need a breakdown of every value within the World.

The constant need for proof has taught everyone to throw away anything that cannot be verified. To quote an old saying, 'The baby is thrown out with the bath water'.

Your mind doesn't grumble at that because it goes along with all the knowledge and skills that you are gaining now in this life, but it can't go along as easily with the things that are taken on trust.

The soul has a much richer source, because it is older and God communicates through it. That is often ignored. Your brain arrived with a hunger for information, and it contributes to your knowledge base. Your soul came with information because it existed before you were born just as it will continue to exist after you eventually die at the end of this life.

The trouble is that if you act in a mechanical way, and analyse every part of what you do, following other people's analysis blindly, you will not allow your mind to grow and it is important that you do. God needs you to find satisfaction and a reward in life, but you won't if you do not experience and learn. People experience a variety of things because their situations and lives differ greatly. But each person can grow within the situation they live in. Some people have disabilities. A person who is deaf has different experiences to a person who has normal hearing. If they are blind or in a wheelchair or stuck in bed, they are still reacting to different situations and that helps them to learn. They each have a capacity to grow in some way.

God is a very subtle energy but this energy is there inside you, ready to power you up and guide you. Some people have to have an 'in your face' experience to convince them that something exists, so they can easily overlook the advantage that it offers. The only way they may become aware of it is if God takes it away from them, but as I said earlier in the book, He's an Equal Opportunities God and He knows that people make mistakes and they can learn from that so He lets them.

Names

Now you notice that I refer to God, and I speak of this Universal Spirit Energy as 'He'. There is only one God even though you will find that various religions have different names for Him. Don't be confused by it and don't worry if you have a different name for this Spirit Energy either. You and He know who you're talking to, so any name as long as it is respectful is okay. I personally refer to God as He or it. I think I use 'He' at times because He brings me a Fatherly comforting feel to my life. It is a nurturing energy that I feel within me and the name God suits me. Some people get upset by the fact I say 'He' but I call the car 'she' and that doesn't seem to bother them. Just don't get hung up on labels because that is ultimately what you can do when you name something. You are labelling it.

When you think about it, family members are referred to in many different ways. A Mother can be a Mum, an Aunt, a Daughter, a Niece, a Sister. She may be called by her name, a shortened name or a nickname. She may be Mrs. Somebody or Ms. Somebody. But everyone knows who that one person is.

## Using Your God-Given Senses

Your instincts are the main senses that God works through, and they bring an immediate reaction to situations. When you learn to trust your guiding feelings it brings results that then prove that that guidance is valid. And as a result, it will build up a track record of success for you.

You will find that as you develop, you will rely more and more on your instincts, and you'll make quicker braver decisions rather sitting down working out whether something is right for you or not. It will free you to apply your talents to a wider horizon, a wider audience. This is God's influence.

You suddenly become the person who can see how to take their life forward in a better way.

You will be the one who is more open and can bring more honesty and power to their relationships with people, so you may find that they respond to you more honestly.

You may be the one who will apply them self to some sort of sport, art, music and crafts because you have that feeling that says 'You really need to do this' and you'll follow it through. As you get practised at recognising your feelings you will question less and your code will be 'Why not?' In fact that phrase may become a more regular part of your vocabulary.

You can find that you are more ready to take a chance on something that doesn't necessarily have a written guarantee with it, but you know it's good. You just know you need to experience it. It's called stepping outside your comfort zone.

You will also learn when to say 'No', if it's necessary, because that feeling within you may be telling you that you need to stand back from something. That is equally important because what you want can very often be different from what you need. Or it may just be bad timing and later on it may be a better time for things to work. And that's what you need.......things to work at the best time for you.

It can be difficult turning down that opportunity when you possibly want to do it, and yet your instincts may be telling you that it's wrong for you. This is you using your wisdom to the full when you follow your feelings and not your brain.

The instincts come before your brain kicks in with its own arguments. It's that instant when you know 'I want to do this. It feels right'. There is a core of sudden excitement in your stomach area. If you think about it for too long you'll give your brain time to catch up and that's when it will persuade you that you don't want to do it because it'll never work will it? It will throw every reason and logical thought into the pot to try and show you what a great mistake you'd be making.

## The God Factor – Your Guide for Life

God is a Universal Energy and it knows your pathway and is there to guide you. That is in contrast to your mind which tells you the logical route to go, based on what you have learned during this life.

Where you can see the short term attractions of doing things, God can see the long term results. It pays to go God's route even when you can't explain why. Later on you'll look back and recognise that it was right.

Don't let others decide for you about God. They have their own preconceptions. So, as I write this and tell you to accept God, you may think, isn't that the same?

In a way Yes, but my main aim is to free your mind so that you can make your own decisions. I am so confident of God that I feel that you will then learn the value of this vital energy and will accept its importance.

God is a powerful Energy that is there for all people, no matter how high or low their position in life. It offers power to each person as well as the dimension for growth. It brings understanding where there is little or none and gives credence to the need for friendship among people. Because although there are those who follow God through their religious routes, many people are deeply divided by their belief, and instead of developing friendship and coming together with so many skills to move forward the world, they instead develop barriers. Those are not good for anyone. You will find that God doesn't have barriers, it's just people who seem to need them and yet life could be so much simpler without them. Try not to have barriers.

As nations develop in their own way, power can be divided. Some may benefit but others fall away in the need for growth. But where everyone works to improve the situation of poorer underprivileged societies things improve greatly and I might add, in the way God expects of us.

It is important that both on an international and a personal level at home with your family and friends that you work to help others to grow. Talking to friends about the help you find, allows them to grow too and it benefits you as well. As you shine the Light for others you too are energised and your own Light brightens more.

The Energy of God is there not to force you into certain decisions but instead help you to take the best route. Equally, God trusts you to use the Power He gives in the best way; to help yourself, of course, but also to help others.

## Modern Reasoning versus Instincts

If you think about and reason everything in your life, it will limit you because you are not reacting, you are analysing. You are saying 'Wait a moment while I work this out' and when you do that, the answer that your thoughts give you will likely be different to what your feeling tells you and you will backtrack. Opportunity lost.

Have you ever had a nagging feeling that you needed to do something for someone, but you ignored it because you really didn't want to or it wasn't the right time, or you having a good time somewhere else and didn't want to be bothered? Maybe then something bad happened that made you feel guilty that you hadn't spared the time. You regretted it but you couldn't change it. Follow those little signs within you and you will be happier with yourself and feel good about what you've done.

Sadly people, animals and the world itself generally suffer so that you and I can learn our lessons, but because we can choose whether or not to do things, there often has to be a catalyst to help change our thinking, so that it digs us out of our apathy.

## God's Credentials

God has not always been represented well and so the picture carried down to the 21st century can be confusing. Just know that documents like the bible may be old but God has evolved and is as relevant to life now as he was in the centuries BC (Before Christ).

He is fully in touch with the way people think and act now. He is technology savvy. He works with a modern slant on life and can be counted on to understand the day to day problems in the world today.

God exists so don't doubt it! And it's a 21st Century God.

If you combine scientific proof with spiritual belief you find that there is room for both. It doesn't have to be a choice of one or the other.

The Energy of God brought life and power to the world after the Big Bang. It is there to benefit everyone without discrimination.

Listen to others' beliefs but don't be afraid to have your own. It may be the same as theirs, it may be different, it may be following the guidance within this book, but as long as you believe in good and have a belief in the one God (by whatever name), don't be ashamed or embarrassed by your beliefs.

God brings no barriers, so don't you do so either.

God needs humankind to come together under One Banner, because it is stronger that way and can deal with problems better, but many people instead divide, they take sides and the world is then weaker as a result.

God can directly reach individuals like you and me with pure understanding. How powerful is that? Why should you reject the opportunity for greater learning when it may benefit your life?

## Using the God Factor

Belief is a simple and pure part of you.

I think it was beautifully described to me by a lady called Eliza, who said it was like that computer programme that you never use, and that by clicking on it you could find a valuable tool for your life. The fact is that that magic programme exists and it will help you if you allow it. It has no need to prove itself. Miracles happen every day in people's lives. You may not always recognise them as such and so the label may not be applied to them.

Allow your life to have a basis of good. Make your belief a conscious part of it, and it will enrich each day. It will not always solve your problems as you expect, but it will help you to find the formula for the most powerful routes in life. By simply acting with your instincts you tap into that Power.

Remember to apply an actively spiritual attitude to your day. When I say that, I mean behave in an honest way and treat others in a good way... the way you wish them to treat you. Live with respect and it will grow around you. Expect the Energy of God to be there for every part of your day as you communicate your feelings and needs to it. Share with Him how you feel. God really does want to know you better. Thank Him for the good bits. It's not a complicated process, talking to God. It's simple. If you're in a busy place, have your conversation by sending your thoughts to God and then you don't have to talk out loud.

The result will be that as you develop your working partnership with this immense Power you'll find you are working smarter. It will help you to have a better and more positive attitude. Then by working in a better flow, you will achieve more and become more ambitious as a result.

Care about others but care about you too. You are important. When you do, you become stronger and more able to do the important things. You don't need to have a big Ego. That doesn't help at all. Just care about the person you are so that you can be that 'Best Human Being' that everyone wants you to be.

Always recognise that while others serve you in life, you should also serve them. God serves you too but you serve God when you help others even if they are only the people around you.

Care more about life, set yourself goals and you will find that you become more respectful as a whole. The knock on effect is that when you do respect your life more, you hold certain standards. You will want to be a fair person. You will want what is right for other people as well as yourself. You will care about other people's individual needs, and you will recognise their need to develop a different path and achieve different goals. When you talk to your friends, respect that they have points of view that suit them even if you don't want to share them.

You will understand the need to spend time with people who share your life. You are a special person in other people's lives so don't cut yourself off from them. They can bring richness to your life and you to theirs'.

Even the nitty gritty parts of the day can become important to you, when you start to look at life through 'God's Eyes'. Where people drop litter you won't, where they verbally abuse others you will maybe suggest they stop or you step back so that you're not a part of it. You may befriend the one without a friend. You may care more about animals and the environment and suddenly it isn't simply someone else's responsibility, you'll find that you're taking responsibility too. When you do this you grow in value. You may learn about your local world and see it in a different way, where you don't ignore the homeless, but see them as people in need of help. The plight of children, adults, animals, wildlife and the environment calls on the help of people of all ages, so why not spend a little time helping an organisation in your area. And all the time that you spend helping them, you're serving God, and with His guidance He is helping you to become a better person.

Some people follow these unwritten rules of life anyway and they don't consciously think of it as God's influence, but they are using the power within them that is given by God to live a better life. They just don't attribute it to following His guidance. Ultimately, that doesn't matter.

It's far simpler to achieve a Feel Good Factor in your life when you work with the God Factor. Life will become sweeter and it will start to mean more to you, and you might even surprise yourself with your change of attitude.

Others will notice and you will probably become easier to live with, as you become less stressed and more relaxed about life. That doesn't mean that you have to under-achieve, you will simply ensure that the goals are right for you. When you work with God in your life you can become more relaxed, more flexible, you widen your focus so the horizon that is open to you is broader, you work smarter and you achieve more. That can't be bad, can it?

## How to Achieve a Good Life

Rule One: Talk to God regularly.

Always be truthful and sincere.

E.g. 'I need your help, please. My day is already going really wrong and I'm worried about this afternoon's work. You know what I need, please help me. Bye the way I loved yesterday, thank you for helping it to be such a good day. Amen.'

Prayer is the most powerful tool you can use. You may think 'It's just words' but when you apply those words truthfully and sincerely they convert into a powerful energy, especially when you are expressing your feelings with them. It is a way of communicating with God where you are committing to issues and taking ownership of them. But always remember that God does recognise lies.

Just standing and talking to fresh air may make you feel awkward, so why not use your mobile phone? There's no need to dick on any numbers, it will communicate to God by default as soon as you start talking.

You may say 'Why do I need to talk about things anyway? If there's a God surely He knows what's going on with me?'

Yes He does, but He doesn't know if you recognise what's going on or whether you're trying to ignore it, so talk about everything and anything. God's heard it all before a million times. He won't be shocked at what you say.

When you do this you will find that within a short time you feel more positive. Remember God cannot take away your responsibilities in life; you own them. He is there to help increase your power level so that you're in control. It takes you from 'I'm dreading today' to 'Yes okay, today's going to be a challenge but I'm not worried.'

Forgive people.

Now I know that's not as easy as it sounds but it really works. When people hurt you, you could say that's just dumping rubbish on you. When you forgive them, it's as though that rubbish is on a long piece of elastic and suddenly you've released it to go back to whoever sent it. Even if you don't know who it is, it works. You free yourself and they will at some point have to pay the price of dumping rubbish, because they have done wrong.In other words they have to pay their debt.

It may not be in a way that you recognise but it will happen. So there's no point in carrying the upset or anger inside you as well because it will only get in the way of your life and hold you back. If they want to be vengeful, they are succeeding until you forgive them. It is like a breath of fresh air when you forgive. T _he Forgiveness Prayer in the Prayer Maker Section can help or you can write your own._

Forgive yourself.

If you do something wrong, you must learn from your mistake and forgive yourself. Everyone makes mistakes. It's a really good way of learning. God understands that. Allow yourself room to make mistakes without beating yourself up about it. Just say sorry, move on in a positive way and leave the rubbishy pain behind. When you do that you become a better person because you have learned from your mistakes and it makes you a more understanding person when others make mistakes. _Here again you can use the Self Forgiveness Prayer in the Prayer Maker Section or use it as a basis to write your own._

Where do you stand in the God Equation?

Some people have difficulty visualising the possibility of a God. They may recognise that something is missing in their lives, but how could including that word make it different? How would they communicate with something they cannot see or even visualise?

You can't imagine a Universal Creator?

Think of God as the Universe's Power Station.

That Spiritual Energy that God brings creates life and it serves the world and maybe other planets too.

God relies on all of us to share out that Energy in the world so that everyone benefits. We act as His power transmitters. When things don't get done it's because we have failed to do them, even though God gave us all the power and the backup that we need to achieve results. We all represent God in this world and He acts through us.

So how do you work with this God Energy?

Love is the Divine Energy that creates life, opportunities, wealth and so much more. Love is power. The more we work with love, the quicker things get done.

God lives for some people in the bible but if it isn't right for you it doesn't make you a bad person as long as you follow God's basic rules which govern your senses; your conscience tells you that you should treat people in a good, tolerant, understanding and caring way. This is the alternative where you work with the living God and this brings a special inner power to you. This can make each day more valuable. This is a hands-on God. He's up to date and so are His Teachings. The basis of God hasn't changed in centuries. The loving Power that He gives is the same, but the wisdom has been updated to suit life now. The programme is right up to date.

Work together with others.

The more the world team works together, the more the God Energy can contribute to its good so that everyone profits. If the world works together, everyone will gain and many lives will be richer for it. We will help the people who need it, and then they can then contribute to improving life's quality as well.

Love is powerful, especially God's Love.

The more you use it, the richer the world becomes because the love multiplies and everyone can benefit.

You should play your part.

The God Energy is there to bring you wisdom, courage, and power to energise your life and others'. God expects you to take responsibility to help improve life. What you say, and do or don't do leaves its mark.

Life can be rich without money. You need money too but remember it is a tool and not a god.

The more that you work with your instincts / your senses (the non logic part of your brain), the more your creative and imaginative side will grow. It is your soul/ sub conscious that is being given the room to contribute to the formatting of your life. To do this properly you must be ready to step outside your comfort zone and that means trusting your feelings even if you can't explain why. It's God guiding you.

It can take courage to do something when you don't know which direction it'll take you, but as long as you feel good about it and your instincts tell you it is right, trust them. Don't ask 'Why do I need to do this?' ask 'How do I need to do this?'

Use Prayer at any time.

God doesn't mind where you are. That Energy is alert to everything you say to it so talk in your normal way but be respectful. Don't ask for particular solutions because you'll find God knows the best one.

It'll be a solution that acts long term; not 'just a quick fix! Prayers are a very reliable and successful way of getting good results. But they provide what you need and not always what you want. _Use Prayer Maker if you need some inspiration._

You are not on your own.

It's good to know that because God's there, you're not on your own when things go wrong. It makes you braver and more able to face challenges. Ask God for help and He'll support you through any difficult times. He'll also help you to be more positive in your day. Sometimes it's a matter of facing the music for something that you've done. Be brave. Whatever the situation, know that you're not facing it alone. God is there to help you to feel comforted, supported and effective in what you do.

God often gets the blame for suffering in the world.

Yet it is people and not God that are ultimately responsible. He gives you and me the power to do good. It is our choice whether or not we do.

You are here to gain experiences and learn.

Ask for the best way to do this. But what if the answer doesn't fit what you want, if it's not convenient, you may ignore those feelings that tell you 'you must do this' and then you may do nothing instead. How will that help you to progress? It won't. So instead follow your feelings/ your instincts, commit yourself and realise your ambitions. They are achievable. You've got the help. Put it into action.

Remember 'You don't need to know how the Power Station works to switch on a Light!'

Life can be confusing and at times painful.

Your journey through life can be difficult and you have many questions that you can't find the answers to. Hand them over to God. You may not get instant answers, but you will find that answers and reassurances will format in different ways. Then just rely on your inner satnav to take charge. Follow the directions (your instincts) and they will take you on the best route. Trust these feelings and grow stronger and wiser in your life.

## Measuring Your 'Feel Good Factor'

Just as your mind enjoys being fed the information that it's hungry for, and your body is energised and enjoys good food, your soul/spirit responds to your level of inner satisfaction. Do you feel good? Is life stimulating you? Are you comfortable in your own skin? How you actually feel registers on the soul gauge.

**Stressed/ Fed up/Negative** – You're running on empty.

**Mix of Good and Bad** – You're part way there.

**Feeling Very Happy and Rewarded by Life** \- The tank's full and you're running well.

Once you realise how much fuel you have in your tank, you're able to deal with things.

You don't want to run on empty. If you do then you won't feel any success in what you do. You need to feel rewarded by life and so you must constantly ask God for help and then follow your instincts because through them He'll show you how to energise your life and make it more satisfying.

When you feel good it means that

You're working smarter.

You're on a roll.

You're knocking down the barriers.

You're delivering on life and it feels good.

The Total Result when you add this up is:

### Greater Ambitions.

### Better Attitude.

### A Realisation of how equipped you are to help others move forward.

### You're upbeat so you influence others in a good way.

### It's not such a disaster when things are going wrong.

### You're more comfortable with who you are.

## Don't be put off

There will always be those who would persuade you that there is no such thing as God. Scientists will say that there is no proof that God exists, but neither is there proof that God does not exist. It's what you feel in your heart, and not what can be dissected in a lab that gives you the answer.

As soon as someone speaks of their doubts, it's like spreading a yawn, because then everyone wants to join in. They may try to shame you or embarrass you into believing they have the answer. Ignore them. Your beliefs are there for you, not for them.

Think about this:

Surely where there is life, there has to be something that created life? It didn't just happen.

There is spirit energy in everyone and it is separate to the mind and the body but it works with them and it comes from the soul. I would describe it as vitality. When it's running at a higher level it brings a positive rewarding feeling, but when it runs at a lower level it can bring make you feel dull, negative and it will take away your power and your confidence to deal with things.

There is a structure within everyone which is the spirit/soul and that has come from a common source, God so it links us all.

The function of the spirit/soul is sometimes referred to as being the subconscious/ higher self etc. As that is linked with God who created life it bears the creative energy that you need to take you forward.

What Can You Expect from God?

### **Guidance** to help with decisions.

### **Courage** to carry them out.

### **Resilience** when times are tough.

### **Wisdom** to do the things you need to do.

### **Love** to help you to see life and people in a better way.

###  **Forgiveness** for you and those you need to forgive.

###  **Spontaneity** of ideas to help your decision making and formatting processes.

What does God look like?

Those who say that He resembles an old man say that because humankind is said to have been created in the image of God. Well, yes, they're part way there but this is my understanding from God: God is a powerful Spirit Energy and he creates us all as spirit energies, but for life here on Earth we need a body and a mind too. The body gives us a package to live in and because we have free will, we get a mind too.

So basically we are a spirit form and we have been created in the image of God. The body's protective like a light bulb. The filaments in a bulb are too fragile on their own so they have a casing of glass around them so that they are robust and work better. You and I are the same.

## Does God Benefit your Life?

You may know of the Ten Commandments that are written in the Bible. Well God has already created within you an understanding of what is right and what is wrong. That actually frees you, because it is your conscience and you can learn to live according it. Once you do that you automatically know how you need to behave and when you live within those rules it allows you to feel good about yourself.

You can be led by written words, but you can also be led by your feelings/instincts. This is your soul guiding you. When you live your life according to those instincts you are following the pathway along which God guides you.

When you work with them, you are tuned into God and you are guided to do things in a good way, and although you are free enough to use your imagination and feel creative, you are not weighed down by the need for lots of rules. They're already there inside you and they give you a nudge each time you step outside them..

But it isn't essential for you to understand how the God Energy works, before you can use it.

Just remember

### 'You don't need to know how the Power Station Works to switch on a Light'.

Describing God (by whatever Names)

### **God is known by many different names.** We talked earlier about this. People have different roles in life and the way they look at the God Energy can vary. That doesn't matter because there is only one God, and He can work directly with you in the best way for you.

### **God is a living energy** that exists to bring power, wisdom and guidance to the world and its people through love.

### **God does not threaten you. People may threaten you but not God.** God brings love. Fear is created by the way people interpret His Power. If they want to bring fear and intimidate people in the name of God, they do so without His permission, unless they are using the other meaning of fear which is 'respect'.

### **God can be known as He, She and It** , and doesn't have a problem with any of them. It is mankind and womankind who make it a problem.

### **God is accessible through your heart and soul.** Just talk to God and you are heard. You carry your own church within you. Feel its power within you and allow it to nourish you.

### **God likes to hear what you feel.** He wants you to be natural, and not use fancy words or churchy words. Those are for church men and women. He wants to know **you** , and he wants to know that you also know you. People hide from themselves at times. They put on their act. They have problems they won't talk about and yet a part of them hopes that someone will notice and help them find solutions. Don't be like that because God will help, but He needs you to talk about your problems. In that way you take ownership of them, and that is an important step towards finding a solution.

### **Speak to God if you're not confident or you're angry and frustrated.** When you talk about these things say to Him 'I need some help please, because I'm not confident (etc) and it's getting in the way' then you'll find that God works on your attitude so that the problem becomes less, or you are shown how to deal with it.

### **God cannot take away your challenges in your life, because they are** your **challenges.** But He will help you to achieve them in the best way possible. Just remember that you can't succeed at everything. Sometimes you have to learn about failure. But in the long term plan it's not a problem because you are learning. God will help you through anything if you allow Him to.

### **God does not want you to believe that if your vision of Him is different to others** ' that it is wrong, because it's not. Neither is theirs' necessarily wrong. Just different.

### **God does not fuel egos.** You can use God's Power to achieve good and often outstanding results, but recognise that it is God's Power and not yours. Don't act Big. It's not you. Just Be Real.

### **God needs you to enjoy your life.** He does not want to you have a hard time but neither does He want others to have a hard time either. Feel that while you are here in the world you have a responsibility to other people just as they have a responsibility towards you.

### **God is ready to help and empower anyone who will help others**. That is part of your challenge in the world as it is everyone else's, and it doesn't just stop at people. The environment and animals count too. The Earth itself has been injured through the bombs, chemicals etc that violate its energy. It can seem to be angry at times but wouldn't you be if someone kept setting off bombs and pouring chemicals into you? The Earth is okay if it is treated with respect.

### **God gives you prayer to use as a tool.** He doesn't need fancy words, just honest ones. This is your time to have your own conversation with God. Tell Him how you feel and what you're struggling with. Prayer is the most powerful tool you can have. It's not even pocket size. It's mouth size. Chat with God about anything.

### **God doesn't want you to feel that prayer is only for emergencies.** It's there for every day to help your life to flow better, because when it does, you achieve more. Even the silly little upsets in your day count because they throw you off balance. Use prayer 24/7 and it will benefit your life.

### **God wants you to cherish yourself because He cherishes you.** Cherishing yourself is giving yourself a hug and saying 'you're okay'. Don't underrate your value in the world because you will take away your inner power if you do.

### **God wants you to know that the most powerful force is Love.** Just think how much stronger you have to be to back down from an argument and make peace, rather than to flare up in an angry way. It's definitely not being a coward when you look for a peaceful solution.

### **God wants you to forgive others and yourself whenever life calls for it.** People have to settle their debts in life, so don't carry their rubbish for them. Forgiving yourself is just as important. A friend called Al sent me some quotes and I think this illustrates it very well. ' _Unforgiveness is like setting_ yourself on fire and hoping others around you die from smoke inhalation'. It's true! No matter how much you regret doing something, you cannot change it after the event so forgive others and forgive yourself then move on. That's what God needs you to do.

Worshipping God is not a 'down on your knees exercise';

It is demonstrating daily that you care. Here is a brief comparison of the routes you can take. Remember that you can also combine the two.

**The Acting Human Way** :  
Live life with a living God, knowing that you carry your church within you. It is the energy and direction that helps you to make decisions and empowers you to do good. Also enjoy the freedom to take part in church activities and study the Bible if you want this as an extra part of your life.

**Other Ways:  
** Live life with the traditional instruction of God through the church's own individual interpretations and the Bible and other important religious documents

**The Acting Human Way:**  
Cherish God and make an effort to work with the senses/ instincts He gave you, so that you are better guided through each day and make good decisions. Each conversation you have with God can be relevant to your needs and those you need to help.

**Other Ways:  
** Cherish God through the Bible's instruction (written by Man) and through the teachings promoted by individual religions. The richness and relevance of these can vary with each teacher/ minister.

**The Acting Human Way:  
** Use simple unfussy prayer for any part of your day so that you are acting with more authority and taking control of your life. Use the hands on approach to your religion so that you feel an involved and important part of the process. Use prayer also to ask for help for others.

**Other Ways:**  
Use Prayer daily. Follow the set prayers given to you but also add your own individual ones where needed.

**The Acting Human Way:**  
Talk to God and relate your feelings, emotions, stresses and joys, so that God understands you fully, and He knows that you also understand you better. Ask for help. Not all requests for help need to end in 'Amen'. You will know when it's appropriate. Say prayers wherever and whenever you need.

**Other Ways:**  
Follow the church's guidance on dealing with your situations in life. Use Prayer.

**The Acting Human Way:**  
Join in traditional weekly worship if you want, but feel free to go to the church that draws you, and not necessarily the one that follows your baptised or confirmed route. God does not bring barriers where mankind often does. Worship God each day by cherishing others, and also your soul/ spirit (your link with Him) and ensuring that your soul finds the fulfilment it needs by challenging yourself, developing your understanding and helping the world in some way.

**Other Ways:**  
Traditional weekly worship combined with committing to church activities.

**The Acting Human Way:**  
Feel the Absolute Power of God within you.

**Other Ways:**  
Feel the Power within you that is conveyed by your various church representatives.

## Your Expectations in Life

Your level of expectation at this point of your life may well be governed by the situation you find yourself in. You may feel trapped by circumstances. Many things can contribute to this for example:

### You are a young carer (officially or unofficially) for a close relative.

### You have grown up in a poor neighbourhood with few obvious opportunities.

### You have not had a good basic education.

### You are not doing well at school or college.

### You are disabled mentally or physically.

### You spend your days in a negative environment such as a young offender's institute.

### You are in a situation you don't want to be in, with no prospect of release from it.

### You have an addiction. Even young people develop these.

### You live within the confines of a rigid household or cult that you do not feel at home with.

### You live in an unsupportive family or community.

### You live with a violent relative.

### Other situations that lower your expectations of life.

This old saying says it all, 'Expect nothing and you won't be disappointed'.

This view is adopted by many people and it may seem to 'let you off the hook' for not achieving things, but you shouldn't be defeatist, it certainly won't allow you to shine. And believe me you can shine if you apply a positive and determined attitude, no matter what your situation.

If you allow yourself to be ruled by low expectations of life it may ultimately damage your vision for a free and rich future. Your thoughts will drag you down so that you no longer have the freedom to be positive and imaginative. That's no good. You are powerful. Why waste it? Don't go there. It's not what God wants for you.

With God's Inspiration you can fly. When that happens, your level of expectation soars. Your true vision for life is there for you to see and work towards. It is a powerful and positive experience. 'Why?' becomes 'Why not!' and you will find an energy to do things and a need to as well.

If your level of expectation is low, it doesn't mean you can't change it. With God's Help especially you can raise it to astonishing levels. Believe in your abilities.

Where there are no barriers in your thinking, God can help you to raise your vision for the future. You will expect more of yourself, you will look for a better quality of life; you will expect some personal space for yourself so that you can develop as you need to.

By believing in the God Factor you raise your expectations because you know that by using that powerful energy brought to you by God you are capable of more.

You can raise your life from powerless to powerful by energising it through God. Like you and I, batteries are made up of both positive and negative energy which they then use very effectively so why shouldn't we?

Remember that it is important to work with that word 'need'. When you say 'I want' it is your brain talking' but when you say 'I need' that stems from a deeper, more powerful soul message.

You may want to do something and plan for it, but it's only when it becomes a need that you will go that extra mile to achieve it. Answering your needs can be very fulfilling.

When you raise your expectations in life, you find a need to fulfil them, so don't back away and accept your situation as inevitable and unchangeable. If you ask God for help and use that immense positivity, wisdom and direction that He offers you to energise your route, who knows what you could achieve.

Take inspiration from some of those famous people who have come from a poor background and achieved their own visions for improving their quality of life and others'.

They could only achieve by having high expectations for their lives. They believed and they reaped the results. Yes, some get knocked down along the way, but they don't lose sight of their goals and they achieve. You can too.

Don't adopt others' expectations for you. If they don't fit your own vision, empower yourself with God's help and walk your own path. Don't act out others' roles for you. Be yourself.

## Life's Problems

Okay so maybe life is difficult at the moment.

God's guidance is not just for your spiritual journey, it is also there to help you to take practical steps to make each day of your life as rewarding as it can be. Having a positive attitude helps you to see the opportunities easier. When you're negative it clouds your vision. It's like a fog. So ask God for the help to be positive.

Always be honest, and ask God for the help you need to sort things out, then even the most difficult challenges will become a lesson that you can value for the future. You can't expect to win every battle and succeed at everything you do, but don't ignore the power of a lesson. If you have failed at something then just forgive yourself and the situation and leave the pain and rubbish behind as you turn your failure into a success by learning from it.

Relationships and Friendships can bring their own Problems.

You may not feel valued by some people and it may make you feel very alone, but remember that God is there to bring strength to you and that you really do count. He certainly feels you are special enough to work with. Know that He really does value you. Feel that spiritual hug that He is giving you and ask Him to help others to treat you in a better way, so that they see you have an important part to play in life. Follow your instincts so that you allow yourself the freedom not to hurt others but to assert your own power and cherish yourself. Talk to God and feel guided by Him. Each step counts. Value yourself for God values you. Once you become stronger you will be able to feel more equal. But if it is a situation where someone of authority needs to be told, then do it.

## Life's Lessons

We are born to trust but we are taught to doubt.

Don't allow doubt to weaken your journey in life.

We are born to live in truth but if lied to we may decide to deviate from it.

It's not wise to do this because then you will lower your own values.

We are born to love without judgement but we are taught it is best first to judge how worthwhile someone is.

Do this and life becomes poorer. God's Love has no conditions so why should yours?

We are born to live with respect but we learn reasons not to.

Respect breeds respect and the world become richer for it.

We are born to cherish and be cherished but we learn to bring in conditions.

Cherish life as a whole.

We are born to share power and knowledge but we are often persuaded it's not wise.

Sharing helps you become stronger.

We are born to help the world but we are shown that we lack the power to do anything.

Never doubt that you have the power to help, even if it's only in a small way. It matters. It's part of your journey even if only through prayer.

We are born powerful but we learn to doubt ourselves.

Believe in your power. It exists.

We are all born with a beautiful spirit but we learn to judge only the physical.

Life can only be poorer if you value people that way.

We are born with simplicity of soul but we are taught complication and entangle ourselves in it.

Why spoil a simple plan?

We are born with God's spirit to empower us but we are fed doubt about its existence.

No one can persuade you unless you are willing to doubt.

We are born with real power but we often hide it behind a banner of elitism.

It is an act. It is false. So Be Real.

Remember that you are born with free will and ultimately the choices are yours. So use that the power within you to make the right choices and grow. There is always time to open your life to new understanding.

Never doubt your power. You are a chip off the old block and when that block is God it means you are powerful. Believe it.

## Tools For A Better Day

How can you live each day in a more spiritual and holistic way? Most people accept now that it is beneficial to be aware of the needs of the whole person. So look at the hints below and see if you can improve your day. It's like assembling the tools in your toolbox.

**Tool One:** **Start the day with a prayer.**

'I ask to live this day in a good way, so that I may learn and feel happy and rewarded by my day.

I ask that I am given the power to do my tasks and to realise that even if I fail, it is because I am learning, that I do.

I ask for the wisdom and power to be given that will keep me positive. Amen.'

Don't like praying? It makes you feel stupid? Hold your mobile phone and talk to God. He doesn't mind how you do it. Just do it.

**Tool Two:** **Awareness of colour importance.**

God could have created a black and white world, but colour is an important energy that He has made available to everyone. Just walk past a flower stall and feel how you are drawn to certain colours. This is a sign of your instincts working and it is a way of energising you. Colours that can comfort you, or help you to feel vibrant and confident; they can calm you, lift your spirits etc. Be aware of this and use colour to empower you in the way you dress and surround yourself with the colours that excite you. It's a gift from God and your senses will respond. Just walk through a park or in the countryside. Colour is just one more tool for your toolbox.

**Tool Three:** **Keep asking God for help**.

You cannot always have an easy day. Even if you're not in a quiet place where you can pray, talk to God about how your day is going. This can be by sending up your 'chat thoughts' to God if you can't talk out loud. Sit on the bus and send up your thoughts. Talk out loud if you're driving and on your own but if you have passengers you may get funny looks. See things in a positive way. Take the route that your instincts tell you that you should follow; that is God guiding you. Just ask for His help for the journey.

**Tool Four: Follow your instincts**.

They are God guiding you. When you are given specific things to do don't ask 'why?' ask 'how?'

Tool Five: Truth.

Be truthful even when you're telling yourself 'It's only a white lie', it is in fact a lie. Be completely honest. It's not easy but you will find life is so much simpler once you get used to it, and you will then work in truth and not live a lie. Being dishonest may simply be a way of deceiving people to protect you or someone else from embarrassment or hurt. But it is better to be honest and you can then know that your words are trusted.

**Tool Six:** **Forgive yourself.**

Know that even if you fail at something, you have still learned from the situation. That is positive! So release any unhappy memories or thoughts, forgive and forget. It will help you feel better. It is a powerful thing to learn from your mistakes. _Use a prayer from the Prayer Maker Section_

**Tool Seven:** **Unconditional Love.**

Be prepared to love everyone in your day, without conditions, each day. You may not like them but that's different. You can't like everyone, but you can send them unconditional love to help them learn. You'll probably benefit too. They were rude to you? Maybe they're having a bad day. They always behave badly to you? Realise they may not understand as much as you so forgive them, and ask for them to be healed. You're being bullied? Pray for the courage to do what is right and realise that they can only win mentally if you let them. You are bullying others? Maybe you don't realise you are intimidating people, maybe you do. Pray for forgiveness and then use that power and determination to help people and not bully them. It is ultimately more rewarding. _See Prayers in the Prayer Maker Section._

Tool Eight: Be positive about your day.

Start afresh. Treat each day as a new beginning. Don't expect things to go wrong, look for them to go right. Know that it is only you who allows yourself or others to talk down your power. Each day can have its own challenges, but do your best and be proud of what you've achieved no matter how small. It gives you an amazing lift when you use God's Power in your day.

**Tool Nine: Care**.

When you care about people it can make you feel better too **.** Your unconditional love can really help people. They can see that you care and that you are different. They may not always seem to deserve your love, but even if that's the case don't downgrade your spirituality to their level. Be generous.

Tool Ten: Respect.

Use respect through your day and everyone benefits. That means respecting yourself as well as others. It brings a better attitude towards all aspects of life; animals, the environment, and the world in general if they are included in your vision. It can make your day just that bit nicer too.

Tool Eleven: Your Diet.

Consider what you're eating. God needs you to help yourself and part of that is to feed yourself properly. The health of your spirit, mind and body rely greatly on the quality of fuel you put into your body. Do your best for them. You will feel the benefit, and yes, you are worth it! Remember to look at the big picture of what makes you tick.

In a lecture a few years ago I saw aura photographs of three pieces of bread. One was white bread and it had a small glow of energy. The second was a wholemeal slice and it glowed brighter. The third was amazing because it shone out brightly. The slice had been blessed. So always ask God to bless your food, because you will benefit from that extra loving energy.

Don't deny yourself the fun food all the time, just balance what you eat with something nourishing too. It pays because you are ultimately investing in you.

Tool Twelve: Special Time.

Find at least a small part of your day for you **.** Do something that pleases you and rewards you. You deserve a little part of the day for your own needs and it will help you to feel more worthwhile and power you up for the more difficult parts of the day.

**Tool Thirteen: The Best Tool**.

Give everything your best effort, even your special time. It will reward you more.

Tool Fourteen: God's Love.

Always remember that God's Loving Strength is the greatest power. When someone starts shouting and getting angry, it takes more inner strength to step back and find a peaceful solution than it does to flare up aggressively. God's Love is there to strengthen you. You're not being weak, you're being strong. Do everything with love. Make up a small symbol and put it on every envelope you post. Send your love with every communication.

Tool Fifteen: Equality.

Remember that everyone is basically equal, and that they are learning lessons in different ways just as you are. Criticism and intolerance are human tendencies that blind everyone at times. Ask forgiveness for when that happens.

**Are the day's pressures getting you down?** Visit www.godworldwide.com and add this online church to your Favourites. You will quickly find some peace for the day.

Escaping the Pressures

Everyone needs to escape at times.

Maybe you feel trapped in a situation that you can't change ~ Maybe there's stress at school, college or in the family ~ Family life is at best a wonderful thing, but for some it is very difficult ~ Maybe you experience bullying at school ~ Maybe it is one of those many situations where life seems to just avalanche down on you.

If certain music soothes you, then listen to it. If it annoys others, borrow or buy a pair of headphones. Don't be defeated.

See the Prayer Maker Section for suggested prayers to help you.

Energy Boost.

Just as wearing the right colour can replenish you so can nature, so a walk in the forest or by the sea can help you and you may find God is easier to talk to when you are in natural surroundings. Notice and enjoy the colours of each season. Even the starkness of winter can be very beautiful.

Health.

Invest in your body and your brain with the most nourishing foods. You'll achieve more and feel better. 'Listen' to those feelings that tell you to eat this, don't eat that, use these supplements, take that exercise etc.

## Believing in God (by whatever name)

You may say that believing in God is Black and White.

Both those who ABSOLUTELY BELIEVE and those who ABSOLUTELY DO NOT BELIEVE would immediately agree with you.

Maybe you are somewhere in between?

So where do you want to be in life?

Empowered or Lacking

Reassured or Hesitant

Secure or Uncertain

Positive or Negative

Resourceful or Confused

Please look at all the facts I am placing before you in this book, they come from my own voyage of discovery.

I have to admit now that because of the depth of my own understanding, I no longer just believe in God, instead I **know** God: To me that is stronger, and doesn't leave any room for leverage when such an understanding is so deep within me.

I personally have experienced the effects of Before and After which brought me my proof of God's presence in my life. I was weak before I learned to work with Him and I acted out other people's roles for me. But now I feel so powered up to do the things I need to do in life. I really do ask you to give it space to do the same for you.

So How Can You really Believe when others try to convince you it is wrong?

Follow your own instincts. This is your route, not anyone else's. Don't bow to anyone else's statements, including mine if you cannot free your mind to do so. But when you do cry 'Freedom' it will be your soul shouting!

How can you believe in a God you cannot see?

You can't see electricity but you know it's there from the way it powers up electrical equipment. Think of God as your personal Power Station. They don't come any more powerful. **GOD POWERS YOU**.

How can you believe in a God that allows such bad things to happen?

**People** make bad things happen, not God although He often gets blamed. God gives people the power and understanding to make better choices, but they have free will so, if they wish, they can choose to ignore it.

**God** gives people free will so that they can choose good or bad. You will find that terrible things happen at times because people have not taken steps to prevent them. People have not acted according to their consciences.

Many people who profess to be Religious do terrible things in the name of God.

**They** are the ones who make the choices, not God. Most religions have had their fanatics through history. They make God their excuse for doing it, but He has not asked for it.

Why should I be answerable to God? I have a conscience. I live by that.

**You** are then already working with God. You are listening to that inner power in your own way. You listen to your heart and you take notice of what it tells you. Your conscience is a measure within your spirit or soul. That is where you link with God.

If God is so powerful, why doesn't He just stop some of the terrible things that happen?

**It** is for you and I to do it, not Him. We all have the power to change things for the better if we choose. Too often we don't see the urgency of it.

When I die there is nothing more, so why should I worry about being accountable?

**My** knowledge has now taught me that there is life after death. Wouldn't this life be a bit of a waste of time if there were none? You are here to learn and develop, even when that means making mistakes. Your failures can also become your successes, if you release the pain and just learn from them.

God makes many judgements on life through the church.

God doesn't. Those who represent God often do according to their own needs. God offers love. Love is power. He does not discriminate. Many who are in a position of power claim to follow Him or preach His values but mistakenly promote their own thinking and their teachings. Many feel that they can discriminate and make God the excuse. God does not discriminate. He encourages them to make good decisions but the end decision has to be theirs as they have free will.

God's Laws are inflexible.

God's laws are a basis for a fair and happy life. If we follow His rules more closely and work with our consciences, we would not need so many laws inflicted on us by governments and law makers. Life would be simpler.

Love is power?

No argument. It takes a lot more power to step back from an argument and negotiate than to flare up in the face of it. God can give you that power.

People represent God so isn't He then responsible for what they say?

Men/women use their authority to speak for God. They must listen to their consciences and God if they are to give a true message. Sometimes they listen to other churchmen instead.

I don't feel comfortable with the name God.

Names are only labels. They depend on people's individual beliefs and their vision of Him. The Divine Light, The Source, God, Mother God, Goddess, Host of All Energies, Divine Spirit are just some. The name and your vision of God should be respectful. The rest is up to you. It is your relationship with God that matters. There is only one God by whatever name.

I don't want to go to Church.

You don't have to. You carry your church within you and you have a direct relationship with God. Never doubt it. God is with you every day if you want to talk to Him. He wants you to be close. Work with Him and He will work with you. Simple.

God is out of date – a relic of the past.

The Bible is all about the past. I live in the 21st century.

You are a living being, so is God. His guidance for life applies to now and so do the same principles which He has evolved so that they are a recognisable guide. Live with love. Live with forgiveness. Work to achieve a better life, for both you and others. Value yourself and others equally. Do not discriminate. The Bible cannot be held as a 'Be all and end all' guide to God. It was written for Humankind by Man. It has been translated many times and used as a political tool along the way for the hierarchy of some past churchmen, kings and others. Some people rely on the Bible. You can choose to do so or you can choose not to, and instead work with the living God through your senses/your instincts. It is a living relationship that responds to each day's situations.

**By believing in God I lose my power because God would dictate my life**.

It wouldn't solve anything.God will not dictate your life because you have free will. By allowing yourself to accept God's Energy within your life, you allow yourself to be stronger and more powerful. It doesn't imply that you are weak, but instead that you are wise, because you know where to get extra wisdom and power to do things. We are not talking about ego power. That is not real power although some are misled into believing it is.

True power is found in understanding, compassion, forgiveness and love. You are powerful when you use these as your tools, as anyone who benefits from your power will tell you. Being kind and caring actually makes you a stronger person and freer inside.

I live an ordinary life. So how would working with God make it Better?

You could work with your heart/ instincts/intuition/gut feelings. By doing this you open up your life, following your feelings and not your logic. Logic can lead you away from the best routes. Your feelings always kick in first. Trust them.

You could work with your feelings and then you will work more positively. Your positive energies would attract positive things to happen.

You could feel more powerful in yourself, more able, and feel less alone when dealing with things.

You could open your mind to more possibilities, find your confidence and break down any barriers of fear.

You could help others to achieve better lives, and that's when you're working with God's Power to do good stuff for other people. That goodness should be shared and it would make you feel good to do so.

Please note that I have said 'could'. You have free will.

You make your own choices. Make good ones.

There are many inspirational words spoken by people from the past and present. Always listen to positive messages no matter who has said it. Pay attention to them. I was taught long ago that too many people are so interested in who the messenger is, that they ignore the message. I was taught that early on in my work. Remember that great gifts can come wrapped in different shaped packages.

## Belief in God can affect Your Life.

As people you and I are complex. There are different elements to us that create individuality. But the basis is the same.

We each have a MIND

We each have a BODY.

We each have a SPIRIT also known as the SOUL (Our conscious and subconscious feeling of wellbeing, contentment, frustration reflects how it is doing).

For our lives to be completely worthwhile we need to see the effect that situations have on all parts of ourselves. Let me explain.

Imagine that you can deal with the same situation in two different ways

You are upset by a situation that is affecting you.

You feel alone.

Your Mind may be stressed and giving you headaches. You may find it's difficult to sleep.

Your Body may be reacting so that you get indigestion, tummy cramps etc.

Your Spirit is down so you may lack energy, feel depressed, confused, even angry.

**You are upset by a situation that is affecting you, but you believe in God, so you ask for help.** Remember that it's for you to ask for help. Solutions don't come automatically. You have free will and God won't interfere with that.

Always ask for help to find the right solution, don't choose it yourself. Tell God how you really feel. Talk about your worries for yourself and anyone else involved. Then begin to follow that inner understanding that guides you to act in the best possible way. God is not going to solve it for you; He is going to help you to find the solution. Situations do not always work out in the way you expect, and what may seem ideal at the time may not be what's right for you as a whole. Accept that what you need is a long term answer which may take more effort from you, but God will give you the help to deal with it. Understand that some things are beyond understanding. They happen and they are ultimately the right solution. It's just that it may not immediately look like it.

And so when you call on God's help:

You don't feel alone.

Your Mind feels easier, allowing you to think more freely and be more positive.

Your Body is not as stressed out. You feel better.

Your Spirit is high. You know that no matter how hard things are, you are being given the help to be in control of your life, or deal with difficult situations in a better way. God can't remove the challenges you face in life but He will help you through them.

Some Examples of when people and not God Get Things Wrong on a Big Scale.

There are so many people struggling in the world **.**

Each country has them but some countries have more than others. They don't have the technology and advances that developed nations enjoy.

The Planet Earth is struggling with the way it's treated.

As a race of people within the world we should decide each day to care about others, the environment etc, but people make business decisions that result in:

Severe oil spillages affecting people's lives, livelihoods, wildlife and contaminating the environment.

The culling of wild animals because people decide it is beneficial to business. Mass slaughter of certain species of animals upsets the wildlife balance and the natural cycle. God created a careful balance.

Chemicals pouring from factories that destroy lives, livelihoods, and wildlife and they poison the environment.

An Example of when people get it right – with God's help.

We should all be inspired by the strength of belief and subsequent determination that helps us to appreciate life more. I think that this one example illustrates it well:

A mine deep underground in Chile where in 2010 many people drew together in faith, prayer and community spirit to help each other to never give up hope. It produced with the help of science and engineering to achieve the rescue of 33 men who were trapped.

The community above ground never gave up hope and prayed. The rescuers worked with their determination and self belief as well as the power that they were given by God. The result seemed miraculous, but that is what God does. He gives the inspiration and power to keep people going when they may think that they can't succeed.

So what if the whole world came together in a Belief of God and used that Special Power to the full?

People would find that they achieved more of what was important to them by working with their hearts and souls rather than just their minds and wallets.

People would become more important than money.

People would work as teams to eradicate poverty and help others to live better quality lives.

People would be valued for themselves and not for what their position is in society or their financial wealth.

People would live according to their consciences, so there would be fewer laws.

People would be truthful and by doing that it would free them to achieve more. This is a lesson too for all governments, organisations and even some religions. Truth liberates you where lies only tie you down.

People would value the environment more and see how much they need a world that is well balanced and not abused.

People would negotiate peace more and they would war less.

People would value animals and nature as a necessary and welcome part of the world's cycle of Life, and they would nurture them more.

People would find more inner reward in life as they discover the simple joys.

People would see the good in people rather than what they lacked.

People would be more forgiving.

People would be more ambitious but in a generous way and not a selfish one.

The world would be a happier and more rewarding place to live in.

It's Your Choice, I Made Mine.

You can choose to accept that God exists but not let it be a part of your life. If you do, you will probably make a lot of mistakes as a result and that would surely be a waste. You would certainly feel that you are alone, and even isolated in some of your life decisions. As a result responsibilities then sit heavily on your shoulders.

Don't lose sight of what is precious because you get trapped in your own hamster wheel when money becomes your god. It is only a tool. Use it as one.

Listen to your feelings/ instincts and make better decisions. Feel comfortable with the person you are. Allow your life to become more forgiving as you become forgiving and tolerant.

You will still get some things wrong because you are human and will forget to always ask for help, but accept that you have to learn by failure as well as success.

I believe that God gives everyone the understanding and wisdom not to build barriers but to break them down, if they are listening. Make it happen.

Your beliefs don't have to be the same as mine. You must apply God's Power to your life in whatever way that brings light to shine on your path.

Believe in good, work with good and share it. Simple really. It's just you and God.

My message to you is also simple.

Give yourself the freedom to accept the amazing power that exists in your life that is God, and you will open up your life. It will become simpler and yet more fulfilling. You will find a need to do things you never thought you could, so it can be rewarding.

You can help break down barriers if you want and that includes both your own and other people's. You will make the choices in your life, but more importantly you will have God's Wisdom and Power helping you to make the right decisions and to move forward in a positive and worthwhile way. Isn't that what you need?

## How to be a More Spiritual Person

You were born a spiritual person, but because of some of that which people and life teach you, you may have lost a bit of that spiritual sparkle and it may be that you have to ignore some other people's accepted ways. I talk here of bad behaviour, those inner warnings and codes for life that do not bring you a positive message or may lead you in a direction that carries the wrong values.

Your peers and society as a whole may try to persuade you against your instincts. You and I often learn to push aside the nagging feeling of 'I shouldn't be doing this' or 'I should be doing that', in order to achieve the results that other people expect of us; and we live our lives according to their rules instead of our soul's rules. That is pure acting! Don't do it. Be yourself and be special.

You have to accept that you won't always make the right decisions for it's your mistakes that often provide your most potent lessons. But when you do make mistakes, you must forgive yourself, ask God to take away the pain and the rubbishy feeling that haunts you, and then move on in a positive way.

When you continue to carry any upsets that have come with your lesson, you struggle to progress because you're still allowing a past situation to colour your behaviour. That acts as a barrier. You can't change the past, so you must let it go and learn from it. If you hold on to them, those negative feelings can eat away at you, stressing you.

So forgive yourself and anyone else who's involved and you will then have a clearer path to walk.

Spirituality is achieved rather than learned. You learn different lessons throughout life and then you develop accordingly. But the important thing is to realise that you can really be spiritual if you live part of your life doing good and for the other part live a lie or act deceitfully. Remember that spirituality is an overview of the person you are now; not yesterday or last year, but now.

In your need to achieve good things and lead a spiritual life you will probably be taken well outside your comfort zone, but you're learning and that's good, because all the good intentions you have are worthless until you put them into action.

Your instincts or intuition guide you well. Logic can lead you astray and that can cost you dearly, because you are often laying the rules according to the facts and opinions put in front of you by your own research and others'. Instead use your logic to help you to work out how to proceed with that which your instincts tell you is needed.

Ensure that you do not split your life into different parts i.e. the part that God looks after and your day to day life. Include God in every part of your day to get the most out of it. It must be the essence of your day, wherever you are.

Each part of your life must be as good as the other, so whatever part of your day that you are living don't back away from true challenges when it might be more convenient to do so. You must live in truth and that can only happen if you follow your path openly and keep to your standards.

When you can respect yourself and the way you behave towards other people, helping them to move on, being tolerant, understanding and forgiving where there are different outlooks, loving and caring in an unconditional way, then you are on your way to achieving a spiritually rich life and you will feel so much better for it. You will have an inner glow that others will notice and want part of, so share the secret.

Self Empowerment Tips

Be positive, it encourages confidence.

See God as the friend you rely on most.

If you have to take action, do it with your heart and soul.

Your spirit/ soul is that link to God. Know that link is strong.

If something sits right with you, then let your conscience lead you.

Use simple prayer. It's the greatest and most powerful tool you have.

If it helps, read the bible but it's not compulsory. It was written by man many centuries ago.

Know that you don't have to go to church to be close to God. He is with you, wherever you are.

God offers His Power and Wisdom. It's your choice whether to accept it.

You carry your church within you in your spirit. Worship it as a special part of you. It is your connection to God.

Don't be baffled by long words. God uses a short one. LOVE

Walk your own path. Be you, not someone else's idea of you.

Forgive yourself. How can you move on without shedding the rubbish?

Forgive others. They will have to settle their debt at some point. Why carry it for them?

Cherish yourself. You're allowed to and it makes you more powerful and enables you to help yourself and others better. Just remember the power is God's and don't develop the Ego.

Don't feel it's too late for you to change your life. It's never too late.

Don't feel powerless. You carry more power than you can ever imagine and when you use it for the right things, God gives you extra.

Don't blame God for bad stuff. Remember you have free will as does every person in the world who makes decisions. The buck stops here.

The world is based on an equal and opposing force of good and evil, but God's Light can always address the balance.

You are working with a living God.

You don't Need to Know How the Power Station Works to Switch on a Light!

## Bad Days

Everybody has them at times. Sometimes it is the bit of shadow that comes to emphasise your sunny days. But sometimes they just come one after the other and you feel there's no end.

There are three situations where you can help yourself.

When you know a bad day is looming.

When you are in the middle of a bad day.

When you've had a bad day.

Always try to share your troubles with someone you can trust like parents, a relative, a friend, a teacher or similar. But also share your worries with God.

You know a bad day is coming.

You have already decided it will be a bad day so your expectations are low. Realise that the day is not set in stone. You can have a definite influence on the results of it, and how you will feel at the end of it. You are not alone. Even when there seems to be no one that you can turn to there is, turn to God (or your name for God).

At the beginning of the day, even the night before, talk to God and share your feelings, your hopes, your fears, your expectations. Talk naturally as you are talking to a Friend, a Hugely Powerful One. Ask for His help so that you can deal with things in the best possible way and arrive at the best solution. Ask for courage to deal with the day.

Don't expect the challenges in your day to be swept away because you work with God, but expect to be empowered with the knowledge, the right attitude, the power, the courage and love to deal with whatever you have to face. Never, ever feel you're alone.

Don't play out a performance in your head, where you are struggling with the problems. It will only make you feel worse. You don't want to see yourself struggling so instead see yourself relaxed and coping well.

Make your decisions by acting with your instincts. God created this extra sense within you so that you would formulate good decisions, and whereas your brain can only format from the facts you put into it, your soul resonates with God and your intuitive streak can help you to format a better day. Trust it.

Extra help

Decide on the clothes that you feel most comfortable in. Wear the colours that help you to feel confident.

Take your time with things so that you're not dashing around frantically trying to fit everything in. If things don't get done they will wait. If others get annoyed at that, let them see that it is their problem because you have to be on top of things. Obviously you may not always be able to do this, but try to give yourself space to manoeuvre. It will help your attitude.

Don't skip breakfast – make it a nice one. Make time for yourself.

You are in the middle of a bad day.

Just because it started bad doesn't mean that the whole day will be. Expect good and you will help it to happen. You will be more positive and this will show.

Find a little quiet time somewhere in your day to have a chat with God (or whatever name you use) and share your feelings, your hopes, your fears, your expectations. Talk naturally as you are talking to a Friend, a Hugely Powerful One. Ask for His help to sort things in the best possible way, so you arrive at the right solution. You don't have to talk out loud. Talk in your mind. God still hears you. If you are stressed, then tell Him, 'I feel really stressed and I know that I don't do well when I'm like this, so please help me to feel calmer and more in control.'

Don't think that you haven't time to spend on yourself. Find a few minutes.

Don't think that you haven't time for a snack/coffee/tea. You need a little 'you' time.

Expect things to get better, even if you have to go through a worse stage to get there. The sun will shine for you eventually so believe that and it will make your day run smoother. All the help you give to your day then allows God's influence to be more powerful and more effective for you. Feel you are working as a team. God isn't going to make your decisions for you but He will help you to make better ones.

If possible, share your problem with someone you can trust. But always ask God too.

When you've had a bad day.

The first important thing to remember is that the day is over and you got through it; that is positive in itself. So let's build on that.

Forgive anyone who has hurt you. That's a heavy one to deal with isn't it? But just think 'why should I allow hate/resentment/ pain etc to eat away at my life when I know that the ones who hurt me will have to answer for what they did. If they deal out pain they will receive pain of a type appropriate to them. It may be in a different way, but they have to be answerable. So don't carry the rubbish like hate etc. Forgive and then you're free. **Suggested prayer:** _I ask for the freedom to bless my enemies and forgive them for what they have done against me. I ask this now of the God I trust. Amen (Other prayers are in the Prayer Maker Section)_

Remember that even if you failed today, you learned from it and that is very positive and will help you move forward to a more rewarding future.

_Thomas Edison (the light bulb inventor) once said: 'I have not failed 10,000 times; I have successfully found 10,000 ways it would not work.'_ Wise words! Adopt them in your life.

Take the positive lesson that you have learned from your bad day and realise that it has made you stronger and more understanding.

Leave that hurt behind. You don't want that on your journey. You can't change what has happened so let it go and learn from it. Even say 'Thank you for the lesson learned. I don't want to repeat it but I'm wiser now.'

Forgive yourself. If you have made mistakes, so has everyone else who's made decisions in their lives. Forgive yourself for any hurt you may have caused and ask to move on.

Well now, what does tomorrow hold?? Better I hope, if not you'll cope!

Dealing with Change

When change happens you can be positive or negative about it. You may not want it but it's there. If you're negative you can't see the opportunities that come with change. You can only see dead ends, so it blinds you to opportunities and you're deaf to all your friends' and family's support.

Why should you act positively?

You came to this life with challenges to face. You are up to them all.

You didn't come alone. You have God empowering and inspiring you.

Your life on Earth is part of a journey, so death does not mean the end.

God brings many different energies to help the world and among them are Angels and Archangels. But just ask God for the help you need because He sorts everything and you then get the right help.

God is there to help you to work instinctively. He will not provide the answers, but He will help you to find them. You already have the answers within your soul, but God helps you to recognise them.

By working with God you will achieve more than you could ever imagine.

You have to communicate your needs to God but then He helps you to achieve your targets as long as they are right for you.

God strengthens you, but you have free will, so you must ask for help. He can't step in without that.

Working in fear will bring no power to your tasks or your life. It will deplete your power. Work confidently.

Feeling empowered will allow you to create a more powerful route. Empowerment comes from God.

Can you succeed?

Yes of course you can. Success is there for everyone to achieve. God wants you to achieve because then you can show others how to. The type of success is for you to choose. Just know that you may fail at times too but that's part of the lesson so don't be afraid of making mistakes. You can't really learn if you get everything right first time can you? Sometimes you have to struggle a bit to achieve things before you can realise their full value.

Of course it's not a matter of **if** you make mistakes but instead **when** you make mistakes. A mistake is the one thing that does not discriminate with class, colour or belief. Everyone makes them and they vary greatly in size and seriousness.

The main question to ask yourself when you make one are:

Did you put it to good use i.e. Did you learn from it?

Hints for a Better Life

See your life as a whole, don't separate off the God part and rush to it when everything goes pear shaped. Use your guidance to find the answers. Life is a treasure hunt. You have to find the clues that help you win. There are enough prizes for everyone.

Belief isn't just for Sundays. Make your week magic.

Apply spiritual values to every part of your life 24/7, ask God to help you and balance your life better as a result.

Don't try to do everything yourself. You can make life hard for yourself because you're supposed to involve others and ask their help. Feel you are part of a team.

Don't feel you're pestering God if you ask for lots of help. That's how a Team is supposed to operate. You're part of the Best Team there is. But let God know that too.

Take responsibility. You may be young but see what you can do to help others. Care about other people and do things to help them and the good will resonate well in your life. It will also give you a better attitude for life.

Avoid getting Stressed.

Easier said than done, I know but here are some tips **.**

Avoid stress if it is avoidable. Your soul will tell you what you need to do. Follow your instincts.

Hand over your troubles to the God Factor in your life, and ask for help with them. Maybe the situation cannot be taken away, but God is good at tweaking your attitude so that it makes you more positive. When you feel in control you deal with crisis in a far more productive way. It's called working smarter!

Go for a walk with a really good friend or someone else you can trust. Their company will do you good and the walk and fresh air will too.

## Prayer Maker

Need to Feel Secure? Need Help to make Decisions?

I ask now for God's help with my life, because I feel insecure and unable to make good decisions in my life.

I ask now for His help so that I can feel good about myself and my life. I ask this in God's Name. Amen.

Feeling Depressed?

I ask now to feel more powerful in my life and I ask to feel protected, because at the moment I am frightened by things that are outside my control.

I ask to feel happier in my life so that I may enjoy it more and help others to be happy too.

I ask for God's help to do this. Amen

Your Disability Worries

I ask now that people will see me as the true person that I am, and not just feel sorry for me but help me to achieve my goals; so that I can do what I need to do and also what God needs me to do. Amen

Worry for Someone Else's Health

_I ask that healing be given to (_ _Name_ _E.g. My Nan) so that they may feel happier and healthier, and know that God protects them._

Amen

Forgiving Other People

I ask to forgive everyone who has acted against me in my life. I ask to clear any pain from my memory as I am ready to strengthen my life fully with God's Love. Amen.

Forgiving Yourself

I ask now for God to forgive me as I forgive myself, so that I can learn from my mistakes and improve my life. Amen

A Prayer to Feel Calm

I ask now for God to create calm within me. I ask for peace within me so that I may create a better future. I ask this now in God's Name. Amen

A Prayer if you are being Bullied

I ask that I may find empowerment through my life to combat the strain of others' bullying. I ask that they release their need for aggressive behaviour and become calmer and friendlier. Amen

A Prayer if you are a Bully.

I ask that I may be a calmer person and not a controlling one. I ask God to release my aggression to bring peace to my soul. Amen

## The Inspiration that is God.

Your true power lies in knowing that you are never alone, even when you doubt that that can be possible.

There is a Vast Universal Power that brings an infinite dimension to learning. That is God.

God is a Creative Energy that enables you to grow in an inspired and powerful way.

God is an immensely powerful and vital energy that is there to empower the world, and it has many names depending on the belief you hold.

If you have no belief, then you may not feel a true direction in life. Always remember to look at the big picture, for without a wide horizon to explore how can you truly learn?

Believe that within yourself you have a magic button to press that opens wide God's window, and it will vitalise your life as never before by bringing you as much power and understanding as you can handle for the future.

Sometimes life just seems like a big muddy puddle. Do you try and jump over it, wade through it, or try and negotiate round it? Whichever way you choose, you are likely to get your feet wet!

God's Powerful Energies are there to guide you. But if you make bad choices you may make your life difficult. Worse still, if you allow someone else to make them for you, you will also hand over your power.

God cannot reduce your responsibilities in life, because they are your challenges, but He can help you to be powerful and wise enough to deal with them.

You are free to choose or refuse God's help. It carries no conditions other than you act with love. So ask for it to be given, and never think a problem is too small. God helps with the smallest of hiccups if it threatens your day.

Help is always available, no matter when you need it. So just call out.

Always trust God to provide the help to find the right answers. He can see further than you, so trust Him to get it right. What you choose may not be as good for your future.

God doesn't use a Band Aid to cover a wound; he heals the wound and, with your help, shows you how to prevent it recurring.

Be wise and ask for help from God, because you then allow yourself to move forward correctly, even when there's no way obvious to you.

Trust God to know and provide the right solutions in your life.

Sometimes the right way means you have to learn from your mistakes. Just be positive and see it as a lesson for life.

Always work in the present and look forward. You cannot change the past. Forgive it and let it go.

Your love is what powers others and yet you may not use it for yourself. So ask for help from God to do this.

If you do not love yourself you are saying 'I'm not worth it'. But you are. Believe it.

Give yourself a hug and accept your own love and God's for the person you are, and then your love will be more powerful not only for yourself but also others.

Allow yourself to imagine a power that is given to you to take you forward, and it will be, because God is ever present.

Be positive even if you can't see the solution and it will help you to progress. God works with positive minds.

Allow yourself to see that there is no way that you can let down God or yourself, unless you refuse or misuse His love.

You are cherished and, like everyone on the planet, you often learn by mistakes. God does not deny you your learning. He will help you to do your best.

Don't refuse God's Love by denying His presence. It will only weaken you.

Allow yourself to see that, with the power of love, all things are possible. With God's Love they can be magical.

Remember that love and prayer are the most powerful tools you have.

Don't forget that when someone gets angry with you and you get angry in return, that you are making the whole situation more negative than it needs to be. It takes great courage to back down and try to negotiate. Be strong, not weak. Ask God's help to find a suitable solution for all sides.

People may make you angry and you cannot like everyone, but you can use unconditional love to help them on their pathway. Later they may even become likeable!

And Finally

Know within you that whenever you think that things are impossible, God can help you to find the possible. Be open minded not closed and you will find the solutions. Call on God.

Feel Assured and Understand.

Never feel that you have to have the answers to all problems. You don't. You're learning. We all are.

Just ask for help to find the right solution and God will help you to work with the opportunities that are given to you.

Your instincts will guide you if you allow them, and that is where your best guidance lies.

God is ever present, so just talk to Him. Be brave enough to step outside your comfort zone and trust that you will find the easiest routes opening up. Never doubt God's Power or YOURS!.

Know that YOU ARE NEVER ALONE.

Remember God comes by many names. Use the one that is right for you. Don't get hung up on labels. The world fails itself if it lets names get in the way.

Know that honesty smoothes your life's paths, where lies only provide the obstacles that make you trip.

Don't be so interested in who the messenger is that you don't listen to the message. Remember that goodness comes in many different packages.

Maybe you know people who may benefit from your understanding. So pass it on to them. They will wonder what makes you tick so share it with them and help them to be stronger. It's not a competition.

No words are wasted. Even if the people you want to help are not ready now, they may later remember what you said when something triggers a change in their life. You can be the catalyst for changing people.

## Advice for the Young Life Traveller

God is the intricate and vital Factor that will enable you to be the person you need to be as long as you take the actions that He guides you to, and you are willing to learn. There are no guarantees in life so you will make many mistakes but that's fine; everyone does. Just be true to yourself and your chosen path in life even if you're not yet sure where that is.

Use that Inner Power that God gives you and be honest in your actions. Don't act out your life for others and then ignore your own needs. Your inner needs are important, and as you move on in life you may find that it's necessary to unlearn some of what others with purely logical teachings have taught you, if it isn't right for you. You need room to be creative and imaginative so that you can explore different paths (as long as they are good) so make space for this in your life.

When you develop your life, make sure that you feel right about what others want of you. They may want what is best for you but they may be looking from their own angle and not yours. Some people manoeuvre others to suit their own plans, but you have to be you and in all lives there must be give and take, so find a compromise if necessary, but never lose sight of your own goals. Ensure that you are true to your own needs so that you don't just act out someone else's plans for you. Respect your own journey and other people's. Respect God.

Understand that just as the world has evolved, so has God. That Divine Spirit can't stand still as the needs of people and the Earth itself change.

Know that God is relevant to every living part of this world, but also know that He needs you to communicate with Him, and share your day so that He can help you to the fullest. You are an integral part of the world. Believe in God and believe in yourself.

The proof of God's presence will be there for you every day as long as you open your mind to it. It may not be something you can explain to someone else but you will feel different act different and achieve more. That Power can strengthen you through the difficult days and weeks. It can enrich every part of every day, as it guides you to better decision making, helps your attitude to be more positive and dynamic and it helps you become a better person.

## My Message to You

Look outwards as well as inwards. Always be the person who looks forward and only looks back to check that they've got rid of any rubbish hurt and have healed themselves and helped others to heal.

If I can only convince some of you to live your life with the God Factor then I will have succeeded to an extent. If you realise that you can empower your life and live a better and more exciting one when you work with God then I'll be happy.

Your life can be amazing, but you have to allow it to happen. You are an integral part of this equation. Believe in God's Power. Believe in your own power.

YOU + GOD = A POWERFUL TEAM

You can achieve good. Never doubt it. You can also have fun achieving it. Hard work and fun can go together.

You have a wonderful gift. It's called LIFE.

You may have a special gift of your own which you can develop and share with the world. Don't be afraid of asking God to help you use that gift in a way that will enable you to achieve your potential.

You may be a musician or a footballer. You may be an inventor or an actor. You may make people laugh. You may decide to work for God. You may help homeless or disadvantaged people. The list is endless. Whatever you choose, give it your best and ask God for the help to do that.

He's ready. Are you?

## Glossary

**Angels** \- These are Divine Beings that work as part of God's Team.

**Archangels** \- These are also Divine Beings working as part of God's Team.

**Creator God** is the Ultimate Creator. He did not create the Planet Earth but He created life on Earth and the World was the result.

**Divine Light** \- Another name for God.

**Divine Spirit** \- Another name for God.

**Energies** \- The world is made up of energies: Plants, Animals, People, the Sea and the Earth itself, in fact anything that has life is basically an energy. It may be encased in a body but it is an energy. Colours bring different energies as do sounds, music etc. Even your words create an energy when you speak them. God is an Energy of the most powerful kind. He is the Host of All Energies. Bringing His Energy to the Earth for different situations involves a team; you may already know of some like the Angels and Archangels. So that people can identify with them, they are also given humanlike forms. But basically all spirit form (us included) is an energy and it is enough to know that they exist and do their best to redress imbalances within the world and people's lives.

**Eternal Journey** \- When someone's life on Earth comes to an end, the mind and body die, however, the spirit resumes its journey within the Spirit Realms (Heaven or Hell). It may return to Earth later to develop its learning here within a new life and take on a new body, brain and identity.

**Exorcism** \- It is mentioned in the bible and is the release of evil spirits or demons from a person. If a person is said to be possessed a release can be done by a person qualified in God's Work.

**Forgiveness** \- Self forgiveness is something to ask from God if a person feels that they are to blame for something. When you forgive others, it also releases the burden of hate, loathing and a need for revenge. It lightens your load so that you can progress.

**Fulfilment** \- This is an important element of life; it is a feeling of reward that comes from satisfying certain needs. It is a feel good factor that cannot be bought with money.

**God** \- This is the Creator and Empowering Spirit Energy for the World. It is the Host of All Energies. The Planet Earth and its people are energised by the massive creative energy that we call God. There are many other names for this Energy, but there is only one God.

**God Energy** \- See God.

**God Factor** \- See God.

**Gut Feelings** \- See Instincts.

**Instincts** \- This is one of your senses that allows you to respond to individual issues. God works through your instincts to help guide you to better decisions.

**Intuition** \- See Instincts.

**Love** \- Love is a Power given by God. He used love to create you and me. It is a strengthening energy. The way it is used is down to each person. It can be used in a positive or negative way. Love shows in different ways. It can be the need to find solutions that avoid aggression. Unconditional Love is an energy that can be given by anyone. It can be used to heal situations and people. It is not necessary to like a person to give them the healing energy of unconditional love. (See Unconditional Love.)

**Prayer** \- This is your most powerful tool. Prayer's your words to God and they should be personal and sincere. Have your own conversation with God. Just know that He answers in different ways to help you find solutions and empower you.

**Soul** \- See Spirit.

**Spirit** \- Each human being is made up of a Mind, a Body and a Spirit. The Spirit is the Soul and the workings of it may be referred to as your Subconscious, Higher Consciousness and the Higher Self.

**Spiritual reward** \- This is the inner glow that comes from being a caring person and giving out love to others. (See fulfilment) It's very special and it empowers you to do more. When you feel fulfilled or spiritually rewarded, it empowers you to do more, help more, and achieve more. Gradually it helps you to see how powerful you can be with God's help.

**Unconditional love** \- This is the love you can send out to anyone and anywhere. One person doesn't have to like another to send them unconditional love, in fact some of the most terrible people need healing through unconditional love to help them to find the right path in life. Pets like dogs and cats can show unconditional love. They don't say 'I'll love you as long as I get a really nice bed or a good plate of food.' They offer their love unconditionally as they cuddle up to you or show their excitement when you walk through the door. They just love you and the more you show your love the more they show theirs.

**Universal Energy** \- The God Energy is a Universal Creative Energy that brought life to the world and creates new life each day.

## About the Author

 Frances Munro sees herself as a life traveller who has experience of the before and after effect of including God on her journey. She is a Minister of the Universal Life Church which she sees as accepting the responsibility God puts on her to share His Wisdom. She works internationally through the Fellowship of God Worldwide, and lives with her fellow worker and husband Mike in Belper, Derbyshire. UK. They have one son.

She is a direct descendant of the Welsh Bard and Calvinist Methodist Minister John Roberts (Ieuan Gwyllt).

In her words 'He worked with God in his way and I do in mine. It's for the same Employer, just different directions!'

If you wish to contact Frances, please do so on any of the following:

Email: mailto:frances@francesmunro.com  
mailto:enquiries@godworldwide.com  
Web: www.godworldwide.com  
www.francesmunro.com

Other Titles by the Author

### It's...Simply About God  
It's...Simply About Prayer

