

Amber M. Kestner

JANA & ANGEL

A Girl For Her Series Volume 3

This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, business establishments and events are the product of the authors' imagination or are used factiously. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead is entirely coincidental.

No part of this book may be reproduced, scanned, or distributed in any printed or electronic form without permission. Purchase only authorized editions.

Jana & Angel

A GIRL FOR HER SERIES Volume 3

Copyright ©2018 Amber M. Kestner

Dedication:

This book is dedicated to ALL of my fans on Wattpad, Inkitt, BookBub, Twitter, Facebook, and many more global that have followed my work throughout the past three years. I know I have claimed to have quit many times but people always tell me to get back up and doing it again because reviews don't make an author, readers do. As long as someone out there is reading my work, I am happy. Toast off to those reading my books.

About The Book

Angel Knight is now Annabel Thomas, she has to make the right choice that could cost her everything including with Jana. Angel wasn't going to lose her fiancee in this battle with Scarlett, she will not be Mrs. Annabel Thomas for the rest of her life. Angel loves her fiance and kids this time no one will stop her love for destiny in Kansas.

Jana is raising her kids on her very own but one thing she misses is her true love Angel Nicole Knight, they were going to plan a wedding and everything until Scarlett took Angel. Jana has plans to rescue Angel but it will take time away from the kids.

Can Angel survive Scarlett's wrath and go back to her love?

Would Jana move if she can't get her love back?

Chapter 1

As time went on memories of Angel faded as Annabel came about more and more personally through the next year or two. Annabel had never felt so different but she loved her wife Scarlett that meant everything to her, even though she always had these weird dreams about Angel Knight and Jana Johnson.

Angel Knight is a beautiful blonde that is in love with a woman name Jana Johnson who she saved from men that were out to torment her and it took Jana a year to know who she was. Jana and Angel agreed to have kids then make deep passionate love soon after. Jana was a gorgeous brunette with the sincere of love. Angel felt like Jana was the whole world and they were meant to be with each other. Angel had the best years with Jana until she was gone from her.

Annabel woke up in sweat and breathing profusely as she shook her head from the mysterious memory of being Angel Knight and some woman named Jana Johnson was her partner for life. Though Scarlett has been with her for over three years now and they have the perfect love.

Scarlett used to beat Annabel for unknown reasons she couldn't recall but she knew she was Annabel Ann Thomas and her lovely wife is Scarlett Myra Thomas. Scarlett was very beautiful in every way with black short wavy hair, blue eyes, heavy set, and always had to wear corsets to look special even though they didn't work around her body to well and she always tried on tight jeans.

Annabel knew Scarlett was beautiful but her clothing style had always been distasteful. Annabel had tried to encourage her wife to wear something more suitable with her body but she disagreed with the choices for a big woman.

Annabel had such a wonderful job working with Shauna Meigs at the Midnight Cafe but she's had to keep update her applications because her and Scarlett kept moving though she hasn't figured out why they keep moving from one apartment to another.

Shauna pulled Annabel to the side one evening saying,

"Annabel you look familiar to me but I can't pinpoint as to who you are? Are you sure, you have lived in these parts before?"

Annabel smiled at her boss replying,

"Shauna, I have been here for many years, I haven't moved at all."

Shauna shrugged then guided Annabel back to where she was with customers as she spoke to other customers about her it seemed.

Annabel finished her job in no time flat as she saw Scarlett pull up though Scarlett never came inside to greet her, she placed her apron on the rack in the back as her cell phone went off as she read the text it said,

"Babe, you need to hurry up, I have a meeting in twenty-minutes and I need to get you home to rest before dinner."

Annabel rolled her eyes as it was the same routine daily but she never argued with her wife. Annabel always kept memories of her wedding day to Scarlett in the back of her mind it was always such a sweet one even though it was more of a Gothic,Wicca wedding that subtle them both.

Scarlett had taught Annabel the ways of Wicca since they got together and they do rituals every time the moon is out in full. They would special prayers for those that have gone for life to soon or something involving candle light, Annabel never kept vague memory of what goes on it always seems clueless to her.

On the drive home from the cafe shop Annabel had a feeling that Scarlett was going to bring up moving again if she even mentioned the fact that Shauna has a suspicion of who she is though she has no clue who she is and why everyone assumes she's someone else.

Scarlett cleared her throat making Annabel startled by saying,

"Annabel, are you even listening to me?"

Annabel shook her head that was when Scarlett hit her against the windshield leaving her in tears once again that was when she replied,

"I am now my beautiful wife, I am sorry for daydreaming again, what were you saying?"

Scarlett sighed responding,

"I was telling you that we are going to have to move again, I am tired of everyone assuming your Angel Knight when you are Annabel Thomas and you know you are Annabel Thomas but no one will believe you. So, we are heading to my birth town in Massachusetts so you better tell Shauna and all you're other co-worker's goodbye."

Annabel felt even more tears flow as her wife literally told her that they were packing up and leaving again this time to another state so she's assuming Scarlett must've heard rumors around town. So, Annabel replied with a heavy heart,

"Why do we got to move so far away?"

Scarlett raised her eyebrows responding,

"Due to the fact that someone in this town knows you as Angel Knight and it better not be Shauna, I swear she'll be dead to us."

Annabel shook her head replying,

"Shauna said I looked like someone familiar but she never said exactly whom I looked like."

Scarlett had assumed someone in this dead town was starting something but it could be nothing just to be safe though they are moving whether Annabel likes it or not.

Annabel had wondered why people thought she was some woman named Angel Knight like who the hell is she? And why is it so important for them to know if it's her? Annabel had no idea where people kept assuming she was this mysterious woman.

So as they were packing to go to Bristol, Massachusetts Annabel spoke up,

"Baby, why do we constantly move? I mean it's not like people do actually call me Angel."

Scarlett dropped her clothes on the floor then walked over to Annabel placing her hands around Annabel's throat shoving her against the wall as hard as she could replying,

"Because if my sneaky suspicion is correct it is someone that assumes you are here and she is determined to get you."

Annabel tried to release herself from Scarlett's grip but it just kept getting tighter then Scarlett released her as Annabel coughed hard then cleared her throat responding,

"Babe if you are so concerned with this person than why don't you handle this miscellaneous person?"

Scarlett sighed with a reply,

"Knowing this person it wouldn't do it any good, so let's hurry up and get going on the road while we can."

Annabel nodded as she finished packing her luggage.

Annabel quit having nightmares of some previous life as soon as they moved to Bristol, Massachusetts. They took a flight from Flint to Bristol which only took four hours even with all the luggage they packed and started all over by reordering furniture, bed, kitchen supplies, and more.

Annabel didn't like this constant moving with Scarlett but after she told Shauna and her co-workers that she had to leave they all sobbed also concerned for her safety, she gave them hugs back and told them nothing is going to happen. She left Midnight Cafe with a heavy weight on her shoulders like she knew something was a mixture.

Annabel finally cleared her throat saying,

"Baby, so since we are in the town you are born in, do you know anyone out here? I mean I never even heard of North Attleboro before until now."

Scarlett turned around from making a plate of salad replying,

"My mom Andrea is still out here, I called her last week to be exact, she can't wait to meet my beautiful wife Annabel and had discussed with the fact of us having kids since we have been together for almost four years now. Also is thinking about having us moved to a place near her and it is an actual house instead of a apartment, oh my gosh babe you will love to have heard my mom's thoughts."

Annabel wanted to just hide away in her own library or something because meeting parent's is none of her best qualities. So she responded,

"My love, I can't keep constantly moving this is causing havoc on my emotions please can we just stay here until we are ready for sure to have children and a bigger home. I am enjoying just us at the moment and the lovely view of this apartment, it's a little high priced for what I expected but it is a beauty."

Scarlett cringed at the denial of moving near her mother so she replied,

"Babe, please just a last move let's say in about six month's tops?"

Annabel sighed hating this constant moving decided to respond,

"Fine sweetheart whatever, I just want to be able to stay in one place and not constantly keep changing from place to place just like we did in Michigan."

Scarlett kissed Annabel sweetly then finished making her salad for lunch as Annabel went into their bedroom with the laptop that they had packed and sat on their new king size bed with black and pink flowers all over. Annabel looked up writing novels as a specialty she had one but couldn't remember what it was about with the constant moving she had trouble staying focus.

Annabel heard Scarlett turn on the television in the living room as Annabel let out a deep sigh every time she wanted to be focused Scarlett would distract her with noise, so she shut down the laptop and went out to watch television with her wife.

Annabel cleared her throat saying,

"I am going to go job hunting today sweetheart."

Scarlett shrugged replying,

"It better be than that Midnight Cafe you worked at for over three years because you never made enough to keep us fed or anything. If you don't find work by the end of the week, you will be working where my mother did as a young woman which is a engineer downtown North Attleboro. You are to be home after your shift just like before. My meetings are at night since I was able to transfer my business."

Annabel was so sick of being on a damn schedule with her wife every time she found a job it was enough to nerve her some days, it wasn't like Annabel was going to cheat on her wife.

Annabel responded with a dry throat,

"Yes my lovely wife, I will stay near home to you and come home to do house chores along with getting myself fed and to bed at a decent hour."

Scarlett smiled with a reply,

"Good to hear my lady, now go get ready for job hunting...once you find a job you better remember the bus route from here to there and same back."

Annabel nodded in agreement sighing as she got up from the couch as Scarlett grabbed her wrist saying,

"To add my wife, you need to keep a stalk of that auburn hair dye around or your natural color will show which I will highly disapprove."

Annabel nodded in agreement again then released her wrist as she went into their room to find proper clothing for interviews in case she gets any today. As she got dressed Scarlett came in the room then beat Annabel multiple times which caused her train of thought to go missing once more she begged Scarlett to quit hitting her but it was always the same daily before she went anywhere.

Scarlett had made sure Annabel would forget something about herself even though they have been together for so long, Scarlett still managed to hit her so hard to leave cuts,black eyes,bruises and damage jaw most the time, she's thankful that her body never broke against all the hits.

Once Scarlett was done she left the room leaving Annabel to scramble and get up as she rushed with trying to cover everything before she went to interviews let alone speaking one on one with people. The only thing Annabel has managed is not to argue with Scarlett because she learned it is never good too.

Scarlett felt proud of herself watching her wife begging for the abuse to stop but she never felt like a relief of marrying her was enough so she made sure to make her suffer subsequently since she kept giving many excuses for the love of Jana which was very sickening when she knew Annabel would take to long to do something Scarlett had to make sure that her memory would never return, so she would enjoy watching her wife shrivel up and cry.

After about thirty minutes of making sure Annabel was good to go for her interviews Scarlett walked out of the room listening to Annabel scramble for makeup and anything else to cover up the marks since she knew damn well Annabel wouldn't go outside without covering up the mess. Once Annabel was ready she grabbed her purse by the door kissed Scarlett goodbye then went to catch the buses for the day.

Annabel had sat down on a bench after filing many applications in each store she could find knowing none of them would be good enough for Scarlett. As she sighed a woman sat beside her saying,

"You look like hell."

Annabel looked up with a new resolution as she replied,

"I have had a bad day and my wife is going to be so upset with me once she finds out."

The woman had lovely short black hair, hazel and green eyes, luscious red lips, she is very lovely looking for sure. She had dressed in all black which made her stand out.

As the lady responded,

"My name Tonya Jones, I can't stand a person who beats someone else which I have noticed about your face and the way you lean it hurts. As for your wife being upset for certain jobs you find that is even more ridiculous."

Annabel sadly looked down again replying,

"I am Annabel Thomas, my wife is very abusive, I don't know who I was before, we have traveled seven times within the past three years and she has not picked my jobs since we've been together."

Tonya shook her head as she scooted closer to Annabel responding,

"Do you remember anything of your past at all? Like your name? Your parent's name? Anything that could trigger a memory?"

Annabel sighed heavily replying,

"No, because once I do have a memory of any sort including dreams my wife beats me for it and my mind loses of what the memory was."

Tonya hugged Annabel responding,

"You're wife is very cruel and you need to be in a women's shelter away from her."

Annabel shook her head no as she looked up at the sky and sighed once more replying,

"I have better get home my wife will be tracking me down if I'm not home by a certain time."

Tonya hugged Annabel once more then walked away with tears streaming from her face. Annabel felt so bad for making the woman cry and now she had to head back to her wife before another beating came about which wouldn't surprise Annabel at all including Scarlett's temper that has literally gone over the top.

Chapter 2

As Annabel walked into the apartment she heard Scarlett throwing things so Annabel closed the door silently then made her way to the bathroom and locking it in hopes of Scarlett not hearing it. That was when she rocked herself until she could hear Scarlett stomping around grabbing what she needed then slammed the apartment door so hard it shook everything.

Annabel unlocked the bathroom door then walked around the apartment to see everything destroyed from their kitchen, dining room, library and much more areas that needed cleaning soon she heard her phone go off as the text read:

"Since you couldn't care to come out of the bathroom and face me, you will be deeply punished tonight so don't you dare even think about going to sleep. You were supposed to be home before dark and you were late once again, so prepare for another enjoyable punishment and clean our apartment while you are at it since it is going to take you most the evening anyways."

Annabel read the messages as tears dripped down her face by morning she's going to be all battered and bruised again which was hard enough to cover today during filing applications. Annabel had wanted to run but she had nowhere to go, she didn't even get information off of Tonya because that would make Scarlett assume of cheating.

Soon as she started cleaning a surprise knock came at the door so she called across saying,

"Hello!"

The voice spoke,

"Angel, it is Jana and your kids answer the door please..."

Annabel raised her eyebrows then walked to the door and answered it to see a woman she didn't recognize with two teenagers as she closed the apartment door then placed her arms over her chest saying,

"My name is Annabel not Angel and I believe you and your kids have the wrong place."

Jana looked rather surprised at that response as she replied,

"How can you forget who you are? You are the most amazing I have been with including our children that love you dearly. You are Angel with lovely blonde hair, blue eyes, and a gorgeous figure. You aren't Annabel, Scarlett has you brainwashed."

Annabel looked Jana dead serious in the eyes with evil in it responding,

"You have serious problems woman because Scarlett is my wife and I have never been with any other since then as far as I am concerned so pack you and your kids and never come back here again."

That was when Jana grabbed Angel into a bent over kiss and planted a passionate one on her as she felt tears stream down her face then let Angel go as her and the kids walked away.

Annabel didn't know who that Jana person was but she kissed way better than Scarlett and had meaning behind it. Annabel couldn't understand why the woman was calling her Angel though it made no sense what's so ever. Annabel sat down at the table lost in thought of what could it mean by that lady showing up mysteriously she even searched her memory of this woman and nothing appeared it's like her past life had disappeared with the abusing constantly because Scarlett always did damage her head in some way like against windows or walls so hard she'd lose conscious for hours on end.

Annabel decided that instead of pondering about the mysterious woman who had kissed her that she might as well go back to working on the house since it is going to be an all night chore for her just to get done before Scarlett got home. As she got off the table she felt like the most horrible person for pushing Jana away but she honestly couldn't remember living a life without Scarlett.

Annabel took a shower that evening deciding to relax her brain from all the chaos from that day it just amazed her all that had happened from meeting Tonya to seeing a mysterious woman name Jana at her front door. Annabel let the heat take her in as soon as that happened memories flooded again:

Jana and Angel had made deep passionate love the night that since Jana had accepted the proposal from Angel it was a memorable one too. Angel had made the backyard amazing with a candle lit dinner, streamers and lights around the backyard ,a soft flow of romantic music from the boombox for them to dance too. Angel loved the set up for her love it made a perfect moment. When Angel got down on one knee and proposed Jana's eyes lit up when she accepted they kissed in the moonlight. That night led into making love for the first time since they've been together and it has been a miracle that their relationship survived.

Annabel woke up in the shower feeling the water being cold as she sighed with the memory seeing as Jana the woman that Angel fell for the proposal looked amazing even though she had no recall of it. Annabel shut the water off and climbed out of the shower as she heard Scarlett come through the front door slamming it shut once again.

Scarlett yelled at the top of her lungs saying,

"Annabel, you better be awake because you are in for it. Our home is still a complete disaster, and all you have done today is be lazy."

Annabel came out of the room with her pink fluffy robe wrapped around her as she smiled at her wife replying sweetly,

"Baby, I did my best today, we had a visitor come by after you left for work her name was Jana didn't catch her last name and she had teenagers with her too."

Scarlett walked over to Annabel grabbing her by throat then smacked Annabel on the cheek so hard it echoed throughout the apartment. Scarlett snarled at Annabel with baring teeth as she responded,

"You spoke with her? You did everything I told you NOT to do. Are you asking to be killed? Jana Johnson is not allowed to be around you and neither are those nasty children. So, as punishment you are going to be in a place you'll hate my dear wife."

Annabel gulped afraid of what was to happen to her. That was when she felt herself being lifted then thrown across the room against the wall passed out.

Jana spoke to Angel,"Wake up this is not the time for you to die, you are my future wife not hers. Scarlett is pure evil...she will kill you and you know it, come on wake up for me if anything. I know you don't remember me but please come on snap out of this hell hole. You can't let Scarlett defeat who you are."

Annabel woke up to find herself trapped in some cage realizing Scarlett has lost her damn mind. She still doesn't get why this Jana chick keeps taunting her thoughts but the most she figured it was a self-conscious speaking to her if anything. Then she looked around her caged area that she's trapped in turns out it is a shed of some sort. Annabel knew Scarlett had hidden places just didn't know where at.

Scarlett couldn't believe Annabel had let Jana come near her. So she literally placed her wife in a shed and a cage big enough for a human. She was getting pretty sick of Annabel's selfish ways so she decided to make her wife's life a living hell in that shed for a while. Scarlett now had to find Jana and make sure her and them kids never come back for her wife EVER again.

Scarlett had ordered a bus ticket to Kansas to back track to Jana's place than she went and checked on Annabel in the shed that was a hour away from the apartment as she got on the bus and headed that direction she sighed heavily as a man tapped her on the shoulder speaking,

"I am surprised you're partner isn't with you? Is she okay?"

Scarlett smiled sweetly at the old man replying,

"She's fine just resting in the hospital she has taken some severe hard hits recently, and it has left her unconscious for several days."

The old man nodded then went back to reading his paper as Scarlett took a deep breath and released it as a sign that no one has officially take notice that Annabel is completely gone.

Annabel after two hours saw bright light from the shed seeing that someone had come from the outside as the person spoke,

"Well my lovely Annabel don't you look wonderful in that full human cage, I am disappearing for a few days so I have food, water and bathroom toiletries, oh yes and a couple outfits so better use everything wisely my dearest."

Annabel struggled to talk as she replied,

"Scarlett, baby, please let me out of here. I don't need to be stuck in here."

Scarlett laughed as she tossed Annabel the duffle bag responding,

"Well as to see you spoke to Jana while I wasn't home then I am going to handle her and the kids myself. So you don't go running to the law, I am leaving you here for a while until I come back."

Annabel didn't like this one bit because Jana never did anything to her so she spoke up,

"Jana didn't do anything that's what I've been trying to tell you all along. Jana just met me at the door and assumed I was Angel when I told her flat out I am Annabel and that you are my wife."

Scarlett winked at Annabel replying,

"Sorry sweetheart Jana has been asking for this punishment for years, and she's now going to get it. So, enjoy your cage for a while and I'll see you in a few days."

Annabel sunk down in the cage feeling so helpless against her own wife.

*

Jana had got back to the hotel with Jonathan and Avery knowing that they were all broken heart to see that Angel is now Annabel an in love with Scarlett totally forgetting her true love. Jana took a deep breath sighing saying,

"Jonathan and Avery I'm very sorry, I have no idea what has happened to your mom...she had the best memory out of any woman I have met through the years this has been the worst and I know she doesn't look like your mom either. I shouldn't have kissed her...the woman I love is gone, thanks to one lying bitch."

Avery eyes went wide knowing her mom had rarely cussed as she went and hugged her mom replying,

"Mom, we tried that is all we can do. I think our best option is to go back to Kansas because we have no chance getting Momma back."

Jonathan didn't like the words Avery spoke as he stood up from the bed responding,

"Sis, listen to me, we are going to get Momma back, we aren't going home until we get her from Scarlett. Momma may have willingly went three years ago but that doesn't mean we traveled all the way out here to not get her back. We are a team and we will do our very best to get Momma in our arms again."

Jana hugged Jonathan and Avery as tears streamed down her eyes replying to both her grown kids,

"Jonathan and Avery, we will get your Momma back but we must work together this is going to be a challenge in the meantime I am going to have to get a job to pay for staying here and keep food in our bellies. You kids should have plenty of homework coming from your principal and if you have ran out just call her with our location to send the work here."

They both nodded in agreement and that was the time everything settled that they were staying in Bristol, Massachusetts until they got Angel back.

Scarlett got on the bus all the way to Kansas to track down Jana for sure, she wasn't going to have that bitch get in between her and Annabel whatsoever. It was a very long ride to Kansas but she didn't have much of a choice and Annabel well she will either survive or die by the time she returned home.

Jana couldn't believe that Annabel had no memory of her past when she admitted it to her that day. As it had happened predictably because of Scarlett couldn't stand the same repeat of hearing about Jana and the kids. Despite all the qualms of getting Annabel to be who she is today has taken a lot of work and daily beatings it has worked for the most part.

Scarlett had arrived in Kansas after the long two day trip from changing routes and everything, she had to start the trek from Boston, Massachusetts to Kansas City, Kansas and now she had to find her rental car to get all the way to Cherokee County to get to Jana's home.

Sure enough it took Scarlett another two hours just to get to her location and when she arrived the home was empty as if the dust build up have never left. A woman came up standing beside her saying,

"Looks like you are confused about something here."

Scarlett looked at the elder lady replying,

"I was hoping to see a good friend here turns out her and the kids haven't returned."

The woman just shook her head responding,

"Unfortunately, her fiance Angel went with a woman and never came back, I knew she loved my daughter Jana so much that they adopted two beautiful children and it has broken my daughter apart. When she told me that Angel had change to some woman name Annabel a few days ago it tore both of us apart, I knew Angel was a wonderful woman with the brightest future. You can't control whom you're kids fall in love with and I have had my husband walk out on me because of it, Jana has had it so hard...."

Scarlett stood there uncomfortable seeing the fragile lady explain everything and that Jana hadn't come back at all which means Scarlett had to find a way back to Massachusetts before Jana got Annabel. Scarlett cleared her throat replying,

"I am sorry Miss but I must go, I can't talk at the moment, thank you for the wonderful story."

The lady patted Scarlett on the shoulder then walked away towards her home. Scarlett had rushed to her car then bolted to the airport knowing she wouldn't need the bus ticket this time she had to hurry home so a two hour flight was the best option and she had to get Annabel out of that shed along with getting her back home in the apartment also cleaning her up and everything.

Scarlett arrived in Massachusetts then got in her rental car that she had borrowed for a few days which is enough time to get Annabel back home and settled then return the car back to the rental car place in downtown. Scarlett kept tapping on the steering wheel waiting on traffic just to get back in Bristol County she had to get back before Jana had taken her wife.

Scarlett got across town within several hours to check the shed sure enough Jana hadn't figured it out so she unlocked it to see Annabel still in there whimpering from eating everything,drinking every ounce of water and worn all the clothes. Scarlett opened the cage and sat down next to her wife saying,

"Annabel, I am so sorry! I need to get you home and cleaned up so we can get settled for the evening including ready for dinner."

Annabel looked at Scarlett with sunken eyes replying,

"You are sorry? YOU ARE SORRY! Look at me Scarlett, I'm a disaster because of you and I can't even imagine all the batters and bruises I have. I will not accept the apology and I am damn sure not going back home to you. All you do is hurt me over something I have no recall of like this Jana Johnson chick and her two kids that love me but I don't know who they are."

Scarlett sighed picking her wife off the ground along with the supplies and taking her home for comfort.

Scarlett got Annabel cleaned up, settled for everything that evening even fed her a marvelous steak dinner. Though Annabel still looked pissed as she said,

"You have no right to keep treating me like this every chance you get. I have been married to you for three almost four years and I am still getting treated like a damn dog. Scarlett, if you were that jealous of my past that I have no recall of then how come you still treat me like garbage? Why do I always get hit? What is so bad that I get this bullshit?"

Scarlett knew her wife had every right to be pissed she's abused Angel aka Annabel since they got together in ninth grade. So she took a deep breath with tears replying,

"Baby, I have no idea why I hurt you but I am going to get help to figure out what is wrong with me. Just promise me that you'll stay, I need you in my life."

Annabel raised her eyebrow then slid off her ring responding,

"I am sorry Scarlett even if you got help again I have no idea what would happen to me. I am surprised to even be alive now...I am now starting to wonder if Jana was the right one for me and being this Angel chick did better my life in the end. Since we are married though and haven't made love once since we have been together, I am going to see to it that you do get help and proper one for that matter. As for now I'm staying in the guest room that we set up for your mother until then you will not be anywhere near me and I am going to listen to the voicemails to see if their is any job that has accepted my offer."

Scarlett saw the ring on the table knowing she didn't deserve Annabel at all, she's pushed her memories of Angel so far that she has no recall. Scarlett hates herself completely but she is willing to do anything for Annabel to keep her as she replied,

"You do that sweetheart and I'll call for a therapist in the morning."

Annabel laughed at that one responding,

"Oh no babe, you are packing up and going to a mental ward for a while, I'll take you this evening to the Emergency Room and you will tell them everything that you have done to me."

Scarlett felt a lump in her throat she hated mental ward but she knew she had no choice. As the evening became later Annabel cleared her throat saying,

"Are you packed and ready to go time is ticking."

Scarlett nodded her head yes as Annabel dragged Scarlett out the door and they were on the road to the Emergency Room than Annabel spoke,

"By the way, I am returning this to the rental place since you are going to mental ward and I will buy us a proper vehicle when I get money developed so that way I am not using our little savings that we have left."

Scarlett knew Annabel had become a fierce woman and is now standing her ground on everything.

Chapter 3

As they arrived Annabel handed Scarlett her bag and kissed her as Scarlett left the car then watching it leave. Annabel knew it was for the best that her wife received help they would have no contact until she was at the mental ward but that was fine for her. Annabel sighed wishing she had a friend to talk with then she remembered Jana must consider her something so she tracked down every hotel in the area, sure enough they were still around so she went and knocked on the hotel door. The door opened with big eyes as the young girl said,

"Mom, mom, come to the door."

She heard rustling from the room as the door opened wide as the young boy and Jana stood there as Annabel spoke,

"I know I pushed you all away, children I'm sorry for being so mean to your mom. I hope you all can forgive me but my wife is getting help and I need someone to stay with me until she does. I will be sure to return you back here as soon as she is home but I need friends."

Jana guided Annabel inside replying,

"Your apartment don't look big enough for all of us, so how would it work out? Not trying to be mean but we are already struggling in this hotel room. Heck we can't even go home because we are broke and trying to survive."

Annabel shook her head in disbelief that they traveled without extra funds or however long they have been on the road as the little girl came up speaking,

"I am Avery and this is Jonathan and we are your kids too, you got us from the adoption Agency in Kansas City, Kansas. You promised to be in our lives for good and than you let Scarlett take you, we never saw you again. I am now nine going on ten very soon and Jonathan is twelve going on thirteen he's a pre-teen now I guess."

Annabel had no recall of the history but this little girl Avery did she seemed to remember every detail as Jana cleared her throat saying,

"Alright Avery enough sweetheart, I am sure Annabel has no recall of her past life gotta remember Scarlett has hurt this nice woman very badly."

Avery sighed hating the answer as she looked at Jana replying,

"Mom, I really wish she was Angel or Momma again, I miss her and the bond we shared she was my best friend before meanie Scarlett took her away."

Jana hugged Avery with tears then dried them up responding,

"Avery, I can't change someone of whom they are at the moment it just doesn't work that way, so we will respect Annabel and show her the same support she had before, Scarlett is getting help but only time can tell right now what happens."

Avery let go of Jana than ran to the bathroom closing the door silently as she heard the girl cry and Jonathan just sat their with a somber look on his face as he stared at Annabel like he saw a ghost across the room.

Jana never thought Angel would come back into her life especially now seeing her standing at the door gave her chills but she knew it wasn't Angel not now, not ever. Jana had face reality that Angel isn't returning to herself for a very long time. So, Jana let her into the apartment as she explained the situation then Avery had spoken that's when all the chills came back as her daughter had described the past but Annabel had no reflection of it. As Avery ran to the bathroom in tears, Jonathan looked like a ghost had haunted him. So now the question is...should they go with Annabel to her place or have her stay in the hotel for one night then have her go home in the morning?

Avery came out of the bathroom with red eyes and tears still wet down her face as she spoke,

"Annabel, I know you aren't Angel but please stay here tonight for just one night."

Annabel looked at Jana an Jana nodded yes and that was when Annabel replied,

"I will stay tonight as I have to return my wife's rental car tomorrow any how, I was going to tonight but I have no energy."

Jana clapped her hands bringing Jonathan and Avery to her attention speaking,

"Alright you two time for bed it is late as it is. So Jonathan you are on the floor of course, Avery you choose which bed you are on since you are a bed hog and Annabel you'll be sleeping next to me. Let's get settled in. Night kids."

Avery got the bed close to the bathroom, so that left her and Jana next to one another. Annabel just went to her side of the bed and covered up in the blanket as she heard Jana stripped out of her pink blouse,pink lace bra,tight blue jeans and pink lace panties then laid next to Annabel in the covers as she leaned over turning off the lights as Annabel whispered,

"Please tell me you aren't fully nude next to me?"

Jana giggled as she rolled over looking at Annabel replying in a whisper,

"Not that it is any of your business but I do enjoy sleeping in my panties to keep comfortable as my lover Angel once said "It is always nice to sleep half nude so the cool air keeps you comfy" so yeah this is my comfort, she used to sleep that way too."

Annabel rolled her eyes as she responded in a whisper,

"I think it is inappropriate with kids in the room, you should at least have a nightgown on."

Jana just shrugged and rolled back to her right side without another word. Annabel had sensed this is going to be a long night with a woman half nude next to her and she is so sick of hearing of this Angel chick...why is she so perfect on everything?

Jana sighed knowing her true love was next to her but didn't dare touch her since she belonged to Scarlett and it had disturbed her completely. Jana looked over to her left seeing the Annabel was still awake as she rolled back over saying,

"I know you don't like hearing about Angel but that is who you are, you were my partner, my fiance , my best friend for two and a half years than when you went off with Scarlett due to protecting us from the nightmare of the constant fight it had tore us apart now it is three years later and you have no idea who I am an it hurts badly. I have loved Angel because she fought to be with me when I had no idea who I was and here you are several years down the road as Annabel Thomas when you were Angel Knight."

Annabel sighed looking at Jana as she saw the tears stream down her face, Annabel reached over and wiped away the tears replying,

"I had no idea Angel was that great thing is I have no memory of my past life and no idea how to get back, I thought Scarlett had been my partner the whole time."

Jana grabbed Annabel's head to make her look at her responding,

"Scarlett abused you in high school when you were Angel and when you're mom found out that you were with her she abandoned you leaving you with your grandma whom I never met but Angel told me the story and so when you found me on a date with this guy Gunther you were there to my rescue and any other time a ex of mine came around. Annabel, Scarlett has abused you so much that you can't recall even the slightest memory of your past and it kills me."

Annabel stared at Jana wild eye not sure how to respond except for the thought of making love to her for some odd reason even though she never did with Scarlett at least from what she recalls, Jana is very beautiful for sure with her short hair, beautiful grey eyes, Annabel licked her lips and feeling herself get moist down below which never happened when she was with Scarlett. Annabel couldn't contain herself much longer but she had to for her wife as she replied,

"Jana, I may never be Angel Knight again but for some odd reason I am more attractive to you than my own wife. Did Angel have that issue to when it came to being around you?"

Jana blushed profusely responding,

"Yes, Angel had a way of making herself known she was attracted to me not sure what triggered it but when we made love once it was something that I would never forget. I am not going to make love to you as Annabel since you are married to Scarlett that is wrong in my eyes."

Annabel nodded as she replied,

"I am going to take a cold shower then come back to bed, I am so sorry once again about Angel wish I knew how to bring her back to you."

Jana smiled with a response,

"It is okay, go enjoy your shower."

Annabel left the room to go into the shower as Jana knew the attraction would never fade but she just couldn't make love to her it wouldn't have felt right.

Annabel got into the shower that had led her to getting off in silence so she didn't wake the young ones as she had a gut feeling Jana was doing the same. In the back of her mind she wished Jana would just have kissed,made love or something to her, yes she is married but Jana gave her a strong affection that can't be hidden. Annabel cleaned her hand off from getting herself off then went back to the main room seeing that Jana had turn on a light and was fidgeting with the sheets still half nude in just her panties as Annabel just only had on panties now too and Jana was right it was very comfortable as to how she slept in clothes for so long made her wonder.

Annabel sat down next to Jana on the bed saying,

"I am surprised you are still up Jana everything okay?"

Jana shook her head no as she responded,

"I miss Angel and the way we used to just hold each other at night without even making love or anything because she respect my boundaries. You are exactly like that even now by just taking a cold shower for the sake of keeping your marriage together. Before Angel went with Scarlett, my boss had kissed me and I did return it thing was when I got home I caught Scarlett having sex with my fiancee and it tore me apart. I admit I did wrong just as much as Angel but we forgive each other."

Annabel saw the struggle that Jana was having as she reached over and hugged her as she spoke softly,

"Jana, you're kids are lucky to have a strong woman like you even after everything. I am sure Angel misses you too and wish everything would be the same. I am not Angel as you know but Angel sure knows how to pick a good woman."

Jana nodded then looked at Annabel replying,

"You just don't realize that you are speaking just the way she would and everything. Annabel, I have no idea how to make you see that you are Angel."

Annabel looked at Jana with deep eyes responding in a soothing voice,

"Make love to me...please...just take me like you would Angel."

Jana shook her head no with replying,

"I can't, I won't...."

Annabel finally couldn't take it and kissed Jana with passion that she didn't know she had it took all of her to keep it together this long and as they kissed deeper and twined together Annabel could feel Jana's hand slip into her panties as she moaned in the kisses as two fingers pressed deeper and more passion came between the two. Annabel had never felt sparks this good in so long that she wanted to just keep going but knowing they couldn't so she slipped her fingers also in Jana's panties as they both panted against each other rocking so hard that they both cummed at the same time and just breathed into one another skin.

Annabel laid down beside Jana whispering,

"That was fucking hot, who taught you to make that feel so good?"

Jana let out a deep breath whispering back,

"You, I mean Angel did, she had a way of making it feel relaxing."

Annabel smiled then rolled over to cuddle with Jana and covered each other with blankets so the kids didn't see them nude when they woke up.

*

Jana woke up that next morning next to Annabel they made love off and on through the night but Annabel still had no recall of Angel so she knew well that her lover had lost all thought of her previous life. Jana kissed Annabel on the forehead as she slipped on her clothes then headed to the sink to get her coffee brewed like she does every day. Soon as she was putting the scoops in she felt hands around her and a kiss on the cheek as Annabel whispered,

"I had a feeling you'd be up early that coffee is going to smell good but I must leave before the kids get up and get this car back to the rental if I make it back in time I will see you again tonight or you come by my place I'll make room for the children plus I would like better privacy maybe you could get Angel back before my wife returns from the crazy mental ward."

Jana giggled kissing Annabel goodbye as she watched her get dressed then leave in silence as Avery stirred speaking,

"Mommy, I know this sounds ridiculous but is she coming back as Angel?"

Jana sat down beside Avery replying,

"Unfortunately not but we can make the best with Annabel."

Avery nodded then rolled over back to sleep.

Annabel hated leaving Jana and the kids something in her gut after making love off and on all night that she belonged no matter what. Annabel had to get her life back on track even if it meant that she goes back and forth between Jana and Scarlett. Annabel got back to the apartment an hour later after dropping off the car as she opened the apartment door she saw Jana and the kids with smiles.

"You beat me back to the apartment." Annabel said with a smile in return.

"Well you're in luck, we are taking you back home, and seems Scarlett is long gone." Jana replied as she met Annabel at the door.

"I can't leave my wife, Scarlett, still belongs to my life." Annabel responded with a sad face.

Jana backed up a step or two as the kids dropped their jaws.

"We made love last night like you were ready to come home to me, I am you're fiance , and we were planning to get married. You can't do this to me, and our children." Jana said with tears flowing down her face.

"Jana, it was amazing making love to you way better than with Scarlett but I can't leave this life, it isn't that simple." Annabel replied.

"It is simple to get you away from the bitch that stole you from me. You saved me from men being harsh to me, and now I have to live without you. This isn't what I came here for, our kids need you." Jana responded as she sobbed.

"Jana, if you love me like you say you do, you will let me be with Scarlett, and quit this foolish game. Scarlett told me time and time again that you were just desperate, now it is leading that way, and got the kids to believe I am their Momma when I am not. I am not Angel, I don't even know who that is." Annabel replied biting her lip.

Jana pulled her hair with more tears running down her face as Avery and Jonathan looked at both of them with sad faces. The argument went into wee afternoon around lunch time, and still didn't end because Jana wouldn't stop or let it go at all, she wanted Annabel to see she is Angel but seemed to piss her off anymore.

End of the day, rolled around as Jana and Annabel finally made the argument end. Annabel agreed to go to Kansas to be with Jana and the kids once and for all because it was getting nowhere to be with Scarlett, no matter the love and faith they had in each other though she loved being around Jana stubborn as she is, that woman will fight for her love of Angel.

Annabel packed her things that were essential then they would hit the road in the morning as long as Scarlett stays in the mental ward, and not being able to track her every movement. Scarlett is her wife but times are changing, and their life isn't perfect by any means especially abuse, hate, and ignorance. She was supposed to work in the system with Scarlett's mom but that isn't happening, she wants to leave before life gets worse.

Sleeping next to Jana still felt so right though with Avery and Jonathan in the living room they were content. Annabel couldn't wait to be in Kansas with Jana and their babies though she isn't sure whether they were her kids to begin with. They love her with everything, so she can handle that much.

"Annabel, get some sleep. Everything will be fine back in Kansas." Jana said in a sleepy voice.

"Jana, how do you believe I am Angel Knight?" Annabel replied.

"You were my girl long before Scarlett appeared. I know you don't believe it but once we get back home, I will show you photos , and you're memories should come back." Jana responded yawning.

"As long as you believe in this than I will too. I just can't help imagine. What Kansas is like? What your home is like? Why do these kids love me?" Annabel replied.

Jana laughed with a yawn responding,

"Trust me, it will all come clear tomorrow, get some sleep. We have a long day of traveling back to Kansas, and sleep will help our mind function on it."

Annabel sighed rolling over to close her eyes though her mind just couldn't stop winding up with scenarios about what is going to change back in Kansas because even Shauna Meigs gave a look like she knew her though it is a long shot to go see Shauna tomorrow to be sure that she is Angel Knight, and with a long ride back to Kansas would put them behind.

Chapter 4

Heading back to Kansas with Annabel became a total different outcome, she flinched every time I went to shift the vehicle it is like my Angel totally disappeared from what Scarlett did. Avery would try and soothe her but would end up screaming for some reason, she knew Scarlett abused her just not sure how bad, and putting her into a mental ward would make her freak out even more. Jana desperately wanted her sweet loving Angel back with the beauty of blonde hair, blue eyes, and her soul that took Jana a lot to fall in love with in the beginning.

Jana could sense that Annabel is feeling bad as she struggles to say a word to anyone. Jana wanted to hold her hand but knew it would be up to Annabel not her. Jana wished she never packed away Angel's things though she still had her grandma's stuff in the attic plus picture's all over the walls. She wanted to make sure Annabel came back to being Angel eventually even if it meant struggling to get her back.

"Annabel..." Jana said in a struggle.

"No, I am not Annabel, you said so yourself I am Angel Knight. I just need a light to show me the way to Angel, I need to be Angel." Annabel replied with a sadness in her voice.

"Alright, Angel, listen to me. First off, I am not going to change you back to yourself right then and there it will cause problems later. We will do this one day at a time." Jana responded with tightness in her throat.

"Okay, so I get to be a person I am not until I see where I need to be but that doesn't help me. I need to do what Scarlett did just in reverse. Retrain my brain to be Angel again the way she was, it will work. My natural hair color will come back once this dye wears off, my eye color is just contacts, and these clothes can be changed to the way I was. My personality of Angel is in me, I just have to go above and beyond to find it." Angel replied with enthusiasm.

"She is right, mom." Jonathan said with a smile.

"Now what then? Do you want to take out those contacts because green really doesn't suit you, we can get you clothes just for you before heading home? Any type of food, drinks that you used to like." Jana responded to Angel.

"You know me better than anyone, Jana, tell me what was my favorites, what was my life like before Scarlett ruined it all?" Angel replied with a smile.

"Angel, you were everything in life though you missed you're grandma you carried on you're dream of having a coffee shop in which Shauna has now taken over since we moved to Kansas, and adopted two wonderful children within that same year. We have a big beautiful home, you love coffee, Mexican food but will eat almost anything from the store, definitely love the outdoors we didn't get dogs quite yet but that is fine, and we both worked I have worked in a Bakery as you worked for the Paper by phone since we needed someone home for the kids. You were life within itself and lived it day by day. I am not sure what memories you have of us but obviously there is still some of us in your mind." Jana explained best to her ability.

"Yes, I do like proposing to you, making love for the first time, and many other important things, I just can't grasp beyond that. I know what has happened though after that is like a blur. I am trying though to remember everything that involved us as a couple." Angel replied.

"Don't push it, Angel, honestly you will remember in time but do you have any recall of your childhood?" Jana asked with curiosity.

"My mom moving to another country because of kissing Scarlett, that memory made me cringe. I lived with my grandma, and grew up to her raising me as a lady. I do know I used to live by myself with playing my guitar, and enjoy my bookstore it never had a name though." Angel responded with her thoughts running wild.

"It had a name when I came into your life because you wouldn't let me go no matter how much I fought you. I helped named it Windsong because it is a name I have enjoyed for many years, and would name my own coffee/bookstore that. Yes, Windsong became our bookstore/cafe much longer before we moved to Kansas. Shauna changed it to Midnight that is what she loved but kept traditional stuff like our coffee and books just changed scenes and themes with furniture, walls, and such. She is a dear girl to us, there is a secret between you two that you never told me but you have kept yourself level headed to her, and still appreciate her taking over our shop that we have to eventually move to Kansas." Jana explained some more.

"So, wait I never told you anything about me and Shauna but I still get along with her? Our store is now given to Shauna because we moved from Michigan to Kansas. Why didn't we just stay in Michigan, and kept our store? That would have been the right thing to do." Angel responded with more questions.

"Sweetheart, you forgot one detail out of this whole thing. We moved to Kansas not only to adopt our beautiful pre-teens Jonathan and Avery but we made our life out there as a start. We agreed to work from the bottom then work our way to the top like you did before we got together." Jana replied.

"At least we did one thing correctly, we adopted these two handful's." Angel responded with a laugh.

Jana and Angel talked the whole trip back to Kansas though sometimes in the back of Angel's mind, she wondered how Scarlett is doing being in the mental ward, and if she will survive her surrounding without her. She wasn't Annabel that is a fact but she wasn't going to waste her life being trapped in those conditions with Scarlett. Divorcing Scarlett will come quick for sure since they most likely will put her in jail for what she did to Angel. Leaving Massachusetts behind became Angel's best decision because her life slowly came back to normal though bad part being in Kansas is that Scarlett left a message on her phone every day though she hadn't filed for divorce yet it is still a trail of hope to end it once, and for all. Jana told Martha to take a hike elsewhere or back to her husband because she got her partner back. It took everything Jana could not to mess with Angel until she felt herself again.

Angel would sleep on the couch even though Jana told her time and time again that they shared a room but Angel cringed of the thought of sleeping in the same room with another woman until her divorce was over, and she could be free of any harm that could be done to her if Scarlett did return, she had no idea what was held in store day by day.

"Momma, I am going to hang out with Brianna, Jonathan is locked up in his room though not sure as to why. You going to be okay, while I go see Brianna for the day?" Avery asked in her sweet voice.

"I will be fine. Go have some fun, I am sure mom will be home soon if I need her." Angel explained.

Avery left without another word as Jonathan came out of the basement.

"Hey Jonathan, why do you lock yourself down there?" Angel asked curiously.

"Doing pre-teen stuff mom, don't worry about it, and Avery does it time to time too when Brianna comes over. I just play my video games in silence is all." Jonathan explained.

"Alright, just don't do anything me or your mom would disapprove of." Angel replied with a smile.

Jonathan laughed then went into the kitchen to get some food and drinks than back to his basement with games. Angel knew better that their kids were exploring beyond what they knew she just didn't want to intrude. She wasn't sure if Jana knew what Avery and Jonathan were up too but she knew better than to just tell Jana because she most likely knew herself.

Being in Kansas is so different from Massachusetts the terrain is a lot more flat than out in Massachusetts, and there is more to Kansas. She hasn't driven a car since she returned the rental so Jana drives the truck most of the time while she sits at home, and undecided on how to contact her previous job which Jana said she worked for a paper. She doubt they would rehire her after her disappearance that she willingly did for Jana and the kids, thanks to Jana reminding her.

Angel's favorite part of the day is when everyone is home but lately everyone has disappeared doing their own thing since she has returned. She needed someone to talk too besides her own thoughts which always brought back memories of Scarlett, and her awful ways. One song that constantly played on the radio that reminded her of Scarlett was You Don't Know Her Like I Do by Brantley Gilbert , and it would play over and over it would make her go insane most days or just break down and cry. She knew telling Jana and the kids would make them hate her for even thinking about Scarlett.

Jana still means everything to Angel it just gives her such a punch in the stomach that she can't decide where to be happy at. Yes, Jana saved her life from the abuse of everything that Scarlett through at her but was it really worth changing herself back to Angel, questions still arise whether she should go back to her first wife. They were everything together, though they hadn't made love since they were together for three to four years but that doesn't change how she feels towards Scarlett.

"Hey baby, you okay?" Jana said.

"Oh yeah, just lost in thought, I have a question?" Angel replied.

"What is that my love?" Jana responded with curiosity.

"Would it be a crime to go back to Scarlett? She is my wife, and I don't think I can divorce her." Angel replied with a sad face.

"Angel, you can't be serious?" Jana responded.

"Jana, I am being serious. I don't want to lose my wife. I don't like being here as it is, I am too alone. The kids are happy with their lives even before I came back. You didn't need me and neither did they." Angel explained as best she could.

"Scarlett has abused, left you for dead, and has beaten you down because of me. Yet, you still want that tramp back. What is wrong with you? Angel this isn't right at all. We are supposed to be together it isn't Angel and Scarlett, it is Jana and Angel. You were the one who changed me from a straight woman to a lesbian. I can't believe this is happening." Jana responded placing her head between her thighs as she struggle to understand everything that is going down.

"I knew you wouldn't understand, Jana, and I am sure the kids wouldn't either. Scarlett can be a wonderful person especially since she is getting mental help, and I did leave her in Massachusetts to get the help. I want her better even with me by her side. Marriage is a lot of work, she is everything that I was, and to become. I didn't agree to her ways but we did make it work. I have to go back, Jana, I need to ." Angel replied desperately.

"Angel, I do understand that you still love Scarlett but my heart's always yours just like always though the exes win. I am not sure who to run too now. You changed me though now Scarlett has changed you're heart from loving me, I am more alone in this world than I have realized. Scarlett will over power our true love it seems. Do you know I love you with all my heart, and that I haven't removed the engagement ring because I thought I would get my fiance back? This is our destiny though that has changed a whole new meaning to our love life." Jana responded through sobs.

"I am sorry, you need to take it off, and find you're true love because I am not it. I am leaving tomorrow to go back to Massachusetts to be with Scarlett, and I will be Mrs. Angel Nicole Thomas because I am happy to have my name back as Angel instead of Annabel. Just know you and the kids are in great hands with someone who does love you, it's just not me, and Kansas isn't my home anymore." Angel replied with a smile thinking of her beautiful wife.

Angel got off the couch then headed upstairs to the bedroom to see her luggage still unpacked from the trip there but she knows she has to go back to her wife, they belong together.

Chapter 5

Angel left bright and early that next morning without a thought of leaving her past behind, she couldn't bring herself to love her first true love. They had a wonderful life but her heart belonged with Scarlett though the abuse, controlling, and beyond was bad, she lived with Scarlett for over four years that is where her heart is. Her phone lit up reading a message from Avery as it read:

"Momma,

I know you are leaving without saying goodbye to me and Jonathan this time just know that you are welcome back home at any time because even as we grow older, our hearts still remember when you adopted us those years ago. I hate that you are leaving us but obviously Scarlett Thomas means more to you than Mom, and Mom has explained to us that you changed her before you're ex became a fixture into you're life. Mom, is very upset that you would do this but in the end, you're happiness is important, and I won't change that. I love you Momma, and I will see you in the future.

Sincerely,

Avery Knight-Johnson"

Angel wiped tears from her eyes as she looked at the house that belong to her and Jana that morning since she didn't leave the driveway as of yet then she saw three faces in the window, Jana sobbing, Avery holding tight to her mom, and Jonathan looking very sad with disappointment. Angel just couldn't live her life a lie as she lugged her stuff in the back of the taxi, and waved to them goodbye for the last time. As she sat in the taxi with her mind wondering if she should let Scarlett know or wait until she got back home to be with her because making love to her wife for the first time in four years should be amazing.

Once again her phone lit up with a message from Jana reading:

"Angel,

I know you are probably near the airport but this message is to let you know that Avery is correct that you are welcome back home(Kansas) any time. We are still a family, and we love you. Jonathan is pissed off because you were only here less than twelve hours but he will be okay. I can't promise that I won't find anyone else because my heart as I said yesterday belongs to you. Please know that you are my whole world, and if I can't have you now that is okay or even some day. I will never lose sight of you. Scarlett, is your love, and I am willing to accept that. I love you Angel Nicole Knight, and I will see you in the future.

Love,

Jana Johnson"

Angel shook her head reading that Jana was willing to give up their love but not completely. She doesn't understand why she keeps holding on to something that faded over five years ago from Scarlett who made her happy. Not even twenty-minutes down the road another message popped up this time from Jonathan as it read:

" Momma,

I am very disappointed in you, I have been home the whole time, and you couldn't talk to me. I was only trying to figure myself out. I am not great with opening up especially when we moved in, you opened me up a bit more each day with my sister that is easy to be happy with. Momma, I need you home with me, I need you more than anything in this world. Jana is a great Mom but you are my best friend, you sacrificed yourself to protect us. Please come back. Momma, I know you believe Scarlett is the best for you in all honesty Mom is right, she is very mean, and hurt you badly. I can't see you hurt again, I need my Momma to be herself again.

My sister told me years ago before we got into foster that we would find two mom's that would love us to the moon, and one would sacrifice everything to keep us happy. Avery is correct on everything, always has been. I have never trusted anyone more than I have you, Angel. We are a family, I need my family all together. I need a stable family for once in my life. You and Momma need to marry, Scarlett only destroyed you because she is jealous of Mom, that is all the reason she took you to begin with. You know what you and Mom's favorite song is? It is Point At You by Justin Moore. You two loved each other so much that song changed you're world. Angel, all I ask is that you listen to that song, and remember everything that belongs to you and Jana. You both have a love that is stronger than you realize.

Think about it.

Sincerely,

Jonathan Knight-Johnson"

Angel sighed seeing that Jonathan does need her, she stopped the taxi a moment then placed her ear phones in, searched the song lyrics, and every flashback appeared her dancing in the kitchen of their one town apartment in Michigan. Life in her eyes shined as she fought tears of how happy they were but she couldn't take it anymore, she switched songs to her and Scarlett's the one that means the most. No one is changing her mind, she wants Scarlett, only Scarlett, her wife, her love, her everything. Angel told the driver to keep going to the airport, she was leaving Kansas once and for all, away from Jana, Avery, and Jonathan.

After a while her phone quit going off as she finally decided to text Scarlett with a smile on her face as she thought of how their love will blossom more when she gets home the excitement just rose in her each minute that passed as she could tell her body getting excited to touch her love in more than one way to keep her from leaping out of the taxi. The text read:

" My dearest wife,

I know I did wrong by going back to Jana it felt so wrong especially when they went back to their busy lives, I have felt non-existent with them. So, I am on a plane back home to you. I have missed you so much though we have had a rough patch of the first couple years but we made ourselves smile most days like beaches, malls, bookstores, we had a perfect life. I didn't remarry anyone as you were away, I just got to change my last name back to Thomas because I am now a Thomas permanently. I hope you are excited as I am to have me back.

See you soon,

Angel"

Angel didn't expect a response back after she sent it out, and Scarlett responded with hatred that it felt venom that Angel had to swallow tears, it read:

"Angel,

You left me while I was getting help liked you begged for me to do. I did get help, stayed a whole week. I have arrived home to no one, not my wife, not Jana or the kids. I was alone for good because you went back to her, I didn't mean to change you're name or anything. I learned from what I done including the abuse but I can't be with someone who won't hold out. I did you wrong at first but then you turn you're back on me. It doesn't matter what I think, go back to Jana, she needs you, so does those pre-teens. I did destroy you're love life from the beginning. I don't deserve you at all. I am hurt but I did deserve it. I am sorry for lashing out at you, top of the message still dealing with anger issues just know I am not the one to be with, Jana Johnson is.

Goodbye Angel

Scarlett"

Angel left the cab anyways, she went on that plane to Massachusetts in fight for Scarlett this battle of love isn't over until she is happy, and that means a wife that has her heart. Angel arrived in Massachusetts with a big sigh of relief, smelling the fresh trees, and grass that brought her back home. She went into the airport to possibly see if Scarlett arrived though she doubt that Scarlett would show up for her. It took all she could to hold herself together after reading that text, Scarlett didn't even say she loved her but that should change once their in each other's arms. Angel didn't believe in going back to Jana that her heart is here, where she belonged once, and for all. Angel heard someone call her name as she saw someone barely recognizable approach her fast, it was Tonya Jones the last person she expected to see in a busy airport.

"Why aren't you still with Jana? I thought you were happy for once." Tonya said.

"I wasn't happy, I couldn't let myself leave Scarlett." Angel replied with a smile.

"You still love her after everything, she put you through. Are you sick?" Tonya responded with a worried look.

"Scarlett is a wonderful wife, and I will be remarried to her once I get my last name changed to Thomas again. We have our hardships but she is still worth a million to me." Angel replied.

"It is you're life but I can't see why you left a good woman." Tonya responded.

Angel sighed as she just kept looking for Scarlett. Tonya cleared her throat saying,

"Scarlett had me come get you, she wasn't ready to be meeting you face to face. She didn't expect you to come back either, neither of us were. So, if you are ready I will take you to see Scarlett."

Angel wasn't upset the least so she grabbed Tonya by the hand as they rushed out of the airport. Angel couldn't wait to be with Scarlett that long trip is going to be worth it. Angel saw that Tonya was pulling her to her brand new 2018 Black Chevy Sonic it took Angel's breath away. She didn't think it was possible that Tonya drove a vehicle since she normally took a bus as far as she knew from when she was here last time.

"Why does everyone say this is a bad idea to be with Scarlett?" Angel asked.

"Because when you were Annabel, she abused you so bad that you did end up in the hospital that is why you went with Jana to begin with. It is like you're mind went into reverse as soon as you hit Kansas." Tonya explained.

"That doesn't make sense, I though Scarlett always loved and cherished me. I am not in love with Jana though like I am with Scarlett." Angel replied.

"You are mentally messed up because one minute you are head over heels with Jana then next you are back in Scarlett's arms." Tonya responded.

Angel sighed in frustration not even understanding how she got herself caught between two women, and now she is back in Massachusetts with a woman that she claims to be truly in love with. Arriving at the apartment complex with a smile, Angel, caught sight of Scarlett looking out the window with a sad face. Angel ran into the apartment complex, climbing the stairs as fast she could leaving Tonya behind as she rushed up three flights of stairs to find Scarlett standing in the doorway shaking her head.

"You didn't go back to Jana, why must you come here for me? I have destroyed you're life." Scarlett said in a irritated voice.

"Scarlett, you can hate me all you want for my choices but we are destined to be together as wives. You made awful mistakes including torturing me, hurting Jana and those kids, and anything else that stood in our way. You are my whole heart not anyone else." Angel explained with a bright smile.

"Could you quit smiling? I can't love you. I can't be with you. I can't be anything you need. It is over, Angel, and it has been since High School when we graduated." Scarlett responded in vile.

"I don't care, I want you Scarlett, all of you. Please let me in, I am still legally you're wife since I didn't file for divorce while in Kansas. You have to believe me, I love you Scarlett Myra Thomas for as long as I live." Angel replied.

"I am actually filing our divorce since you went to Jana, I will not let myself love you after everything I did. You can't love someone when you are hurting for someone from High School, you know who my love was back then, do you?" Scarlett responded with gritted teeth.

"Annabel, I am not sure of last name." Angel replied.

"Annabel Hudson, she was from Texas then moved to Michigan when we were in High School but her parents forced her to leave when I fell hard for her. You aren't Annabel, you are Angel Nicole Knight from Michigan with you're fiance Jana Johnson. Angel, you never belonged to me, and Jana finally fixes you from everything I did just for you to come back, and be with me. No, no, you need to go back to Jana and your kids." Scarlett responded.

Angel felt herself step back as she ran into Tonya who held her by the shoulders to keep her balance. Angel released herself from Tonya as she swallowed the lump in her throat to reply to Scarlett.

"Scarlett, I knew about Annabel that girl was everything to you. I don't want to divorce you though that is what I have been trying to tell you. I am not going back to Kansas, I want to be with you, please, please see for yourself if we make love how much I do love you."

Scarlett shook her head slamming the door shut as Angel walked over to the door, and sat in front of it as she sang It's Your Love by Tim McGraw through the door, Angel only memorized the chorus but still sang it just for Scarlett to hear. Angel sat there until morning than began singing again though she wouldn't stop until she got Scarlett's attention.

Chapter 6

Angel still refused to move after a whole week, it drove Scarlett up the wall trying to work on her clothing design for Vogue Magazine though she doubt with Angel around it is going to lose sales. She didn't want to hear any more of It's Your Love that song is for couples, they definitely weren't that anymore. Scarlett opened her door with a heavy sigh as she spoke to Angel.

"Can you please just leave me alone? I am done with you." Scarlett said.

"I am not leaving until you give me a second chance. I love you too much to leave us." Angel replied.

"Angel, I am not giving you a ultimatum. I want you to leave or I am calling the police." Scarlett responded.

Angel knew better than to let Scarlett boss her around as she looked into her blue eyes that mimicked hers that made her fall again though her black hair is now a blonde that stood out perfectly to her complexion. Angel wanted Scarlett like she did back in school. Angel felt grateful that Scarlett went to being as a woman again instead of dressing dark, and creepy.

"You are so beautiful." Angel said in a whisper.

"You need to be with Jana." Scarlett whispered back.

"I need you." Angel whispers through her teeth.

Their lips barely touch that make Angel shiver she never felt this close to anyone in so long. Angel shoved Scarlett through the door as she closed it behind them their lips didn't leave one another that they couldn't hold on to anything, their tears collided with deep kisses. Scarlett shoved Angel off with a hurt on chest though catching her breath is the worst.

"Angel, please stop making this harder than it should be. I will not love you like you think I should." Scarlett said in a ragged breath.

"Scarlett, this isn't a game. I am not leaving you. Obviously kissing me made you cry like it did me. We have something, and it isn't our history from abuse that you gave me. I will not be with Jana Johnson or my kids, I love them but not like I do you." Angel replied with still drying her eyes.

"Our shared kiss doesn't mean anything, you need to leave. I am not having you in my life like this where I have to stop everything to provide a relationship for the one you want. I am not going to stand here repeating myself." Scarlett responded.

"I am staying Scarlett whether you approve or not, I will go back to working for your mom's company to prove my worth." Angel replied.

"They can't rehire you from the incident you caused. Go back to Kansas! I can't have you in my life after all the constant hell I put you through." Scarlett responded through gritted teeth.

"No, no, no, NO! I am not going back to a boring life." Angel replied through her own gritted teeth.

"A boring life you enjoyed before I took you away. You didn't need me after High School, that you made obvious when you got with Jana later in life. Angel, you love Jana that is a fact because you two were so happy together, and to tell you the truth, I knew when you were Annabel you had sex with her because I didn't put out the time we were together. You love her, YOU LOVE JANA!" Scarlett shouted to Angel.

"I LOVE YOU SCARLETT MYRA THOMAS!! I am not leaving, and that is final. I will find work to be with you until you see I have a point to prove you. I don't need sex with anyone to be happy. I wasn't happy there in Kansas that is what you can't see, twelve hours, and I was unhappy." Angel replied with tears flowing again.

"Angel Nicole, you are one stubborn fool. Fine, fine, stay whatever but don't get in my way I have a issue of a magazine due soon, and I am in with the boss trying to make a great design sale. You're old laptop is in the bedroom that you left a story on that you left behind. I did read it, you have some crazy thought about our love life being a happy ending. You are wrong on many factors but Jana will be back in you're life so will them kids of yours. Just know this is messed up in my opinion." Scarlett responded shaking her head over and over.

Angel shrugged headed back to her old room where she saw everything in replay of when Scarlett would get mad at her, she snatched her laptop to head back to the living room, and that started a replay in her head of when Scarlett threw everything around because Angel messed up badly one evening. Angel felt tears threatening a fourth time that day as her memory replayed everything that happened with them two.

"Scarlett, why did you abuse me for so long?" Angel asked.

"You weren't Annabel Hudson but she is now married and happy, so I am a loner for a reason the love of my life doesn't need me anymore, she found a beautiful woman that would love her more than I ever will out there in Texas." Scarlett replied with a sigh.

"I don't get why you thought taking me from my "happy life" would make any difference?" Angel asked again.

"That is because you were my best friend that could be replaced to be Annabel but I was really wrong on that, you are Angel, and always will be." Scarlett replied.

"So, you never loved me from the start?" Angel responded with a question.

"No, that is why I didn't understand, why in the world you came back?" Scarlett replied combing her fingers through her hair.

Angel now wondered what she is thinking of claiming to love Scarlett when there is no love. They didn't need one another, honestly, Scarlett felt better without her or her first love. It raised her standards differently but she wanted Scarlett to love her, need her, and be happy though Jana did do all that but she was left alone in consuming thoughts about Scarlett. Angel sighed texting Jana letting her know that she is with Scarlett once, and for all as their life is no longer normal. She got herself in a deep mess that now left her to wonder why she is here with Scarlett? Scarlett admitted to not loving her but she still refuses to leave what is behind. Their is no sex involved, never was as a fact that she can recall. What could make her want to stay? Avery and Jonathan do need her but not like they do Jana. Angel couldn't make sense of anything running through her head.

Scarlett got up from her laptop that is displayed in the kitchen as she went to sit beside Angel saying,

"I know you think our relationship is love, it isn't, never will be. Jana is your true love, and only love. I got in the middle because of jealousy which isn't healthy at all. I am sorry you are confused on what love is, and you believed coming here would change our relationship when it won't. I have severally hurt you, Angel, and messed you up so bad that you're mind has trained you to come to me instead of staying with Jana. You don't belong with me but I will be here when you decide to leave for good to Jana once, and for all."

Angel looked at Scarlett deeply concerned for what she has been trained in therapy though she did tell her that she did leave when Scarlett needed her yet at the same time felt apologetic for hurting Angel. Angel sighed as she finally responded,

"I don't want to leave you, I want you apart of me, to carry me through everything make me a Thomas again, please."

Scarlett shook her head replying,

"You are meant to be Knight-Johnson with the family that does love you more than anything in this world. I will not rekindle our marriage that is wrong on many factors."

Angel couldn't take this heartbreak from Scarlett every discussion brought up Jana, and that she needed to be with her. It isn't what she wants or needs in this life. Scarlett took Angel by the head with small kisses taking in everything at this moment saying,

"I am sorry, we keep fighting like this, I didn't expect you at all to come back here. I want you to know I will do my best to make you happy. You want us to be together than we will be a couple again but no rush to go get married this time, I will file our divorce properly, and we will rebuild everything together. Who knows it might be better for both of us a second go around. I will not make you go back to Kansas if you don't want too."

Angel kissed Scarlett with excitement that she couldn't hold herself together but took a breather replying,

"So, we are divorcing but we will still live together or do I need to go live elsewhere so we can date? I don't want to intrude on your personal space this is your apartment."

Scarlett shook her head responding,

"We will stay in this apartment it is in both of our names legally you signed as Angel Nicole Knight instead of Annabel but that is okay, as for your things with Jana that is all up to you to handle especially since you share custody of kids."

Angel nodded with a big sigh as she fiddled with her hands thinking of a way for them to celebrate without making it to big or to long of a celebration. In the back of her mind though she knew they couldn't celebrate because of Scarlett's work that needed to be done as soon as possible for Vogue. Angel needed to get back to working on this book, she was writing on, and to think of it, it needs a reread possibly; rewrite too.

Angel opened her laptop again as Scarlett went back to working on her clothing line for Vogue though it is a slow day in the apartment at least she is staying, and Scarlett did finally give in to her staying that is happiness at its best. Though she wanted to do something fun while being back in Massachusetts like go to the mall, and hang out. Pig out on Pizza while enjoying a Romantic movie together. Heck, go to the park for just fun or lounge around. Anything, besides working.

"Scarlett, when did you lose all that weight? I do remember that you were heavy set when you kidnapped me." Angel said out loud without thinking.

"Oh, while I was in therapy for a whole week they made me lose the weight to be happy again, and it came off quickly too. I am now back to eating salads, drinking water, and enjoy eating healthy again." Scarlett replied smiling.

"That is wonderful baby, I am so glad you lost all that weight, you look so much better, and happier too. I love that you can be yourself again too." Angel responded with happiness.

"I want to be healthy and happy for any woman that came into my life. I can be beautiful and healthy once and for all without any pent up anger that ate at me for years. How about this instead of working in which I know you are hating, how about we go enjoy a day out in the sunshine?" Scarlett replied.

"That sounds like a great idea, my love. I will go change into something more comfortable especially a tank top and shorts." Angel responded getting up from the couch.

"Um...no, we will go buy you a beautiful summer dress for today. I don't need to see those clothes anymore. We will get you proper clothes to wear, you can even wear one after buying it." Scarlett replied.

"Okay, then I will grab my keys, and purse, we will head out the door." Angel responded grabbing her things as they headed out the door holding hands.

They got into the piece of crap Ford Focus that Scarlett still has then headed to shops, and park for the day to enjoy one another. Angel couldn't believe all this truly happened being with her High School sweetheart for now, and not a worry about her past.

Chapter 7

Arriving at the store with Scarlett became amazing it felt so good to be placed in a store that represented herself in so many ways. The lovely dresses stood out perfectly especially the floral ones that Scarlett let her pick out to try on and see which one she liked more. Angel would show off her new look to Scarlett who would just nod with a smile though honestly not caring because she wished Angel was with Jana doing this instead in the back of Scarlett's mind. Scarlett saw herself out of the department store and went to grab some coffee, she didn't understand Angel's way of thinking at all. She loves Angel immensely but Angel belong to Jana not this way, she hurt her enough before she got therapy and began her medication. Scarlett will never understand why Angel loves her so much but this is all she got left and telling her mom that Angel came back willingly would probably shock her too since she knew what went on behind closed doors.

"Baby, why did you leave me in the store?" Angel said.

"I needed some coffee my love, sorry I will come back and join you to see all those dresses you picked out." Scarlett replied through gritted teeth.

Scarlett hated shopping especially for clothes that would be taken off in time when it comes to sex and she has feeling Angel will want that out of her. Scarlett wanted nothing more than to be alone being around Angel is making her want to go off her medicine so that way she doesn't have to pay attention to Angel. It just is irritating her to no end that she ended up being back with her when she didn't even want that to begin with. They do not love each other by far. Scarlett watched Angel show off more dresses, outfits, and whatever else she could find to feel comfortable with though it is like peeling paint off the wall with just watching Angel try on everything. Angel finally figured out what she is taking home and Scarlett paid for it all.

After two hours of sitting at the mall, they made their way home. Angel scurried off to the bedroom to put on one of her new clothes. Scarlett sat in the living room for a few minutes when the door rang, Scarlett rushed over to it and opened it to find Jana with Avery and Jonathan looking like they have been crying the whole way there.

"Angel isn't coming home is she?" Avery asked.

Scarlett grabbed her house key, locking the door behind her, and ushered them out the door.

"It isn't my fault this time, I did get therapy and I am on medication. She came here willingly to keep a relationship that doesn't exist, I do blame myself for making her believe we are meant to be together when she belongs to you three. Until she realizes that she belongs back to you three their isn't much I can do accept show her what I mean to her and be her girlfriend. Yes, we are filing for divorce though it is all going to be one sided. So, please if you decide to come inside be patient with her and just be your best because I can't handle her begging to stay again as it happened when she arrived." Scarlett explained.

Jana shook her head in disbelief that Angel literally left her on her own and it tore her apart once again. How can this all be so real? Jana wanted her future wife back but this battle with Scarlett has become reality once more.

"Scarlett, I love her and wish she would have remained in Kansas instead of coming all the way out here. I know this is a big mess and this one isn't your fault. Angel's memory rehashed what you two have instead of what me and her cherished. She did try on the way home but I think her heart wanted you back because you still love her too." Jana replied.

"Jana, she is meant for you in more ways than one. I didn't mean to make her mentally unstable to come running back to me. I love her but not that way, I don't dare to touch your woman. This is all wrong." Scarlett responded through gritted teeth.

"It is up to her now Scarlett, we are both in between her and her emotions. She will either way stay with you or come to me or come back and forth until she can resolve her happiness. My kids and I have suffer enough but if Angel isn't in the right frame of mind then we have to deal. I don't want you to have sex with one another but I can't stop what Angel does or feel but in the end of all this you do not marry her again. Make sure you refuse each time she wants to be down the aisle with you. That is my deal because I want Angel back in my life." Jana replied.

"You got the deal though I wasn't going to marry her a second time anyways, she is yours." Scarlett responded as they both shook hands on it.

Jana and the kids left as Scarlett made her way into the apartment breathing a sigh of relief that her and Jana are working through this tough time though what she saw next of Angel isn't what she prepared for as she stepped through the door. Angel has herself naked on the couch winking at Scarlett.

"Ready to be in my arms?" Angel said.

Scarlett backed herself out the door than down a flight stairs then bumped into Jana by accident.

"Sorry, I have to go, I can't do this anymore. Angel is in my apartment stark naked at this point and I am losing my sanity to her. Go have a talk with her, please. I will be back in an hour with the kids just handle Angel." Scarlett begged.

Jana took Scarlett's apartment keys and Scarlett took the truck keys as they both nodded to one another. Jana wasn't ready to face Angel but she needed to fix this for Scarlett. Jana entered the apartment finding Angel sure enough naked though covered up under a blanket crying her eyes out. Jana sat beside Angel on the couch as she cleared her throat.

"Angel?" Jana said.

"She doesn't like me naked. What did I do wrong to scare her off?" Angel replied through her tears.

"You do know that you two never made love, right? That was only us. You and Scarlett didn't go that far when you were with her before." Jana responded wringing her fingers together nervously.

"Jana, why are you even here? Where is my wife? We aren't together anymore since you all abandoned me in that house." Angel replied wiping her tears away and becoming angry with Jana.

"I am here because Scarlett ran into me in the parking lot and your kids wanted to see you, Scarlett is out with our kids. We didn't abandoned you, you ran away Angel, and couldn't face us on your own let alone fight this feeling for Scarlett." Jana responded with gritted teeth biting her cheek in the process.

"You're jealous, Jana admit it, you are jealous of what I have for Scarlett and you want that for me and you. I don't want to see those damn kids, all I want is Scarlett, no one else." Angel replied snatching the blanket closer to her and scooting away from Jana.

"I am not jealous of whatever this is, you made up this whole scene because of what Scarlett put you through before you came back to Kansas. We were planning our whole life together before you ran back to her. And no, she doesn't want to see you naked but it isn't going to be easier for her to work it out with you if you keep shredding off your clothes. You love her then give her time that is my only advice for you, I am not going to sit here an argue about what could've been fixed with us. I am going to sit outside on the deck by the door." Jana responded walking out the door leaving Angel to herself.

Angel got up off the couch looking out the apartment window to find Jana and Scarlett talking, she rolled her eyes then went back to the bedroom and locked herself in. She couldn't take this bitter of what they both think their capable of which is making her feel useless for either of their love. She wants Scarlett but even that seems out of reach. Scarlett is everything to Angel their bond is irristatable at this point though they haven't even touched one another like her and Jana have, she craved it with Scarlett each time they became a breath away from each other.

Angel heard Scarlett come into the apartment without even yelling for her or anything, it felt so strange to Angel that Scarlett isn't even putting up a fight though she came here willingly so with hopes of changing Scarlett's mind that they can be in love. Angel came out of the bedroom with clothes on to find Scarlett sitting on the couch watching television.

"I am sorry for doing that to you, Scarlett." Angel said.

"It's fine, I was going to tell you that I have work to do in the factory downtown where my mom works and that I would be home later but unfortunately work told me not to come in for a few days after everything went down with us before. So, I am stuck at home, and in the meantime I did call the bookstore that you wanted to work for, they aren't taking in anyone after my crazy incident with trying to get Jana, you are without a job for however long it'll take you to find another." Scarlett replied in a huff.

Angel went an sat next to Scarlett grabbing a hold of her hand gently.

"We could make our own store, make it a wondrous one with your artwork and my books. We could make a ton of money having our own store." Angel responded smiling.

"No way, that was you and Jana's dream not mine. I love working with my mom finally, if you want a store go ahead contact Jana she and the kids can move out here. I am not living in stress forget it." Scarlett replied.

Angel shrugged her shoulders dreaming about opening up Frostfire instead of it being Windsong though either one would make a great store. She has no idea what to do just yet but time will come for that. In the meantime she has books to write including on Jazzabelle and Ashton it is a feature love story that involves finding happiness to end with love. Though in the back of her mind, she is wanting to change it too Sara and Ashton to bring in a new audience of love just like her life.

Chapter 8

Angel and Scarlett still haven't touched each other in any romantic way, it bothered Angel because when she was with Jana they made love and everything but she is figuring that this non-sexual relationship will work itself forward on finding a romantic area for them both sexually eventually. It just became so dull for Angel like it was living in Kansas once more. Angel wanted Scarlett to give her attention but it seemed so far out of reach that they avoided one another. Angel grabbed a bottle of whiskey out of the cabinet and drank it until it was empty then slept peacefully without stress. She woke up to find herself naked next to Scarlett like they made love drunk but she couldn't recall any of it.

Scarlett got out of bed without looking at Angel but spoke softly.

"That was just pity sex, I will not be making love to you any time soon. I am not going to cure alcohol problem either. I don't love you in anyway, I have no idea why you came here to be with me but this life isn't for either of us." Scarlett said in a scowled voice.

"Why do you hate me so much? I thought you said we were soulmates. Scarlett, please, I am trying to understand this motive that you have against besides when I went back to Jana and that only happened because I needed some place to stay while you recovered, I didn't think it would happen overnight. Scarlett, please, let's work this out, make love with meaning behind it. I don't want to drink just to have sex with you." Angel begged.

"I don't hate you, I am aggravated because I can't get rid of you. I wanted Annabel Hudson not Angel Knight though my own stupidity did this to me on making you, Annabel Thomas but no, you had to come back from Kansas to prove of some kind of love that we don't have. I don't get you, Angel, you have a perfect woman and kids waiting for you in Kansas. I can't love a woman that doesn't belong to me, it is selfish to think that I could make you my dream girl but I can't change that." Scarlett replied as she sat on the bed still naked.

Angel kissed Scarlett's shoulder with a soft touch making Scarlett shiver.

"I don't want to leave you, Scarlett. I know what you did is wrong but I don't belong with Jana at least not at the moment or if ever. I am in love with you." Angel whispered in Scarlett's ear.

"You do belong with Jana. Not me this is where you get it wrong, I am the evil ex-girlfriend who tried to rape you few years ago, and controlled you in High School. We aren't to be together, Angel." Scarlett replied pushing Angel back away from her.

Angel sat up keeping her hands away from Scarlett as she bit her lip trying to think of a reply to handle Scarlett's ambition on pushing her away so much. Angel rubbed her hands together on her lap, watching Scarlett get up from the bed and headed into the bathroom without looking back at Angel. Angel got up from the bed rushing to the bathroom door to find it locked which disappointed Angel feeling that Scarlett isn't giving in. A few seconds went by when she heard a scream from the bathroom as Angel looked down through the bathroom on the floor to find Scarlett beating on the bathtub, and laying her head down crying. Angel got up from the floor, and walked away back to getting clothes on, dreading days to come when she would see Scarlett smiling.

After getting dressed Angel went to her phone to text Jana on seeing what she can do to make a way for them all to be happy, maybe moving Jana out here wouldn't be a bad idea. So, that way they all can be together without this separation. Angel got a hold of Jana, though Jana didn't like the idea, she agreed to it, so Jonathan and Avery can see Angel as much as possible this way. Angel knocked on the bathroom door telling Scarlett the good news.

"Good, once they are here, you can live with them because I can't be with a woman like you, you are too much. I agreed with Jana to make you as happy as possible but I am not willing to keep this so called relationship alive when their wasn't one to begin with." Scarlett said through a vile tone.

"I am not going to move in with them. I am staying right here whether you like it or not, Scarlett. I am technically still your wife until we sign these divorce papers but even then I am not leaving you." Angel replied as she sat in front of the bathroom door.

Scarlett screamed again and again and again as Angel kept smiling through her wonderful thoughts. She would have access to two women but one is her permanent partner that is Scarlett whether Jana likes it or not this is going to work. Angel heard the bathroom door open, out of spite Angel kissed Scarlett with passion and finally Scarlett gave into Angel they made love like never before that it felt amazing to have Scarlett's lips roam Angel's body that is in need. Out of breath, Scarlett looked at Angel.

"Even though we made love sober doesn't mean we are going to be like this all the time, I am not in love with you like you want but I will love you for as long as you are here. I don't even like admitting this but you have given me no choice." Scarlett whispered between breaths.

Angel kissed Scarlett more than made love more until neither of them could take it anymore, Angel didn't care what Scarlett thought was right but she is going to make Scarlett fall in love with her somehow even if it meant fancy dinners and fun.

To be continued...

Coming In 2019 In February Scarlett & Angel Volume 4

(more information below this)

Published Books By Amber M. Kestner & Annora Rose:

Jana & Angel Volume 1, 2 & 3

Annabel's Fate

Shadow's Of Despair

A Girl For Her

Clinging To Love

Beauty & The Outcast

Dating Miss. Lillian

Dreams Of A Angel

Dark Desires from An Angel

To Be Published:

Scarlett & Angel Volume 4

Power Of Love

Keeping Her A Secret

Giving Her Up

Chasing Her Heart

Always Her Heart

A Girl's Heart To Poetry

Shay's Burning Desire

Ten Years Wasted

& more to come...

Sneak Peek Of My Debut Novel For 2019:

(can be read on Wattpad & Inkitt)

Leaving in the mid-afternoon for their evening in Kansas City, Jana wanted to Angel take Angel everywhere and show her the sites and everything she did while growing up. And everything meant taking Angel to her her first major league baseball game to see her favorite team the Kansas City Royals. Jana found out the Royals were playing at home against the Seattle Mariners and grabbed tickets the minute she found out. She was able to get some great seats. The seats were behind the first base and a few rows back from the Royals dugout. It also happened to be the night that they had a fireworks display right after the game. Jana knew Angel would love that. Angel has never been to a baseball game, much less a huge sports fan in general. But she was up for trying something new as long as she was with Jana. She knew she would enjoy it and have fun as long as she was with her.

Before they left to begin their adventure in Kansas City, Jana had called the hotel while at her parents to confirm reservations. Angel has no idea what Jana has planned, but it didn't her Angel because anything she does with Jana is always an adventure. Once Jana was off the phone it was time to pack, shower, and hit the road to Kansas City so they could get to the game in time before it starts. Jana wanted to Angel everything about Kauffman Stadium and didn't want to waste anytime.

The drive from Roseland to Kansas City as about two hours. They had plenty of time to get to Kansas City. The two hours went by fast as the weather was beautiful, the windows were rolled down, and music blaring. As they entered Kansas City, Jana grew more excited as they drove down I-70 and and eventually saw the big crown that lead to the stadium. Angel just loved seeing Jana so excited. As they approached the parking booth to pay for parking and drove to their assigned parking spot, Angel was just amazed at how full the parking lot was. Angel parked the car and as she and Jana were walking through the parking lot to make it to the ticket gate to enter the stadium, Angle asked Jana,

"How come everyone is having a big picnic out here in the parking lot. It smells amazing!"

Jana replied,

"It is called tailgating. People bring their own food and grills and cookout before the game. My family and I did that a lot when we went to Royals and Chiefs games. It was a blast!"

Angel responded,

"Chiefs games?"

Jana said,

"The Chiefs are Kansas City's NFL team. If you look right over there that is Arrowhead Stadium were they play. You see a lot of tailgaters now, its there is three times a much during football season when the Chiefs play at home!"

Angel was just amazed by what she was seeing. She has never seen anything like it. Angel and Jana continued to walk through the crowd of tailgaters and finally made it to the ticket gate. They gave their tickets to the attendant and they walked into the stadium. Angel was mesmerized by how big and beautiful the stadium was from the outside. It was just as big and beautiful in the inside.

Jana took Angel's hand, "We still have plenty of time before the game starts. Let me show you around!"

Jana showed Angel every part of the stadium. From the Hall Of Fame all the way to the gift store. Angel was just amazed at how beautiful the stadium was and how much she was learning about the sport. But most of all she loved seeing Jana so happy. The game was going to be starting in about thirty minutes. But Jana wanted to get some new Royals gear before the game started. They entered the gift show and Angel just look around in amazement to see how all the walls were covered with Royals merchandise. Jana noticed that they were having a lot of sales. Angel followed Jana over to where the jerseys were. They had so many different colors. Jana explained to Angel earlier that the team colors were royal blue and white. Jana as looking at the jerseys and was thinking about getting one as she hasn't had a new jersey in years. Angel noticed her look at the jerseys and asked her, "Are you going to get one sweetie?"

Jana replied,

"I would like too. I have had a new one in years. If I get one you would like one too?"

Angel responded, "Sure! They are pretty sweet looking. And they look comfortable too. And I love the colors."

One of the store associates came over and asked the ladies if they would like some assistance.

"Welcome to the K. Is there anything I anything I can help you with?" smile the store associate. Angel though man they are sure friendly out here.

Jana told the store associate, "Yes please. My girlfriend and I would like to get a couple of jerseys."

The store associate said "Awesome! We have a great deal going on today. You can get two jersey's for the price of one!" This was music it Jana's ears.

The store associate asked, "What color of jersey would you ladies like and would you like a player jersey or a personalized one? We can personalize it right here on the spot." Jana thought for a minute. Then she had a great idea.

She turns to Angel and asks her, "What is your favorite number?"

Angel responded, "Seven. Why do you ask?"

Jana asked her, "How do you feel about having a personalized jersey?"

Angel responded, "That would be so awesome!"

Both Jana and Angel agreed on each of them a power blue jersey. The store associate took their information and told them that these would be ready just in time for the game. The store associate went into the back with the jerseys. Ten minutes later she came back with the customized jerseys. Both Angel and Jana were overjoyed with the results. The back of Angel's jersey had her name and the number seven. And Jana's jersey had her name with the number eight on it. Jana played softball growing up and in high school and that was always her number. Jana paid for the jerseys and a couple of foam fingers and they both left the gift shop with their jerseys on and made the way to their seats.

Jana led Angel to their seats. And of course it is has been a long time since Jana was a the K to watch a game and she was just speechless as to how beautiful the stadium was after all the renovations were done. And it made Jana realize just how much she loved being there and how much she loves the game of baseball. Angel was blown away by the beauty of the ballpark. And she was just equally blown away with the love that Jana has for this place and for the game. They settled into their seats and the game begins. Jana begins to explain to Angel in the simplest terms the game of baseball. The Royals were playing the Seattle Mariners. The stadium was packed with fans. She could feel the excitement in the air. The Royals were on the verge of winning their division and securing a spot in the playoffs. All they had to do was win the game today. Angel though Jana was doing a great job explaining the game to her. Angel found herself getting really excited and becoming a Royals and baseball fan herself as the game was really good and engaging. A couple of hours have passed since the game started. The game was in the bottom of the ninth. The Royals were ahead 7-4 and only one more out was needed to win the game that would send them into the playoffs. Everyone was on their feet screaming and cheering. The final pitch is delivered and the batter strikes out. Game over. Royals win the game and win the division and are off to the playoffs for the first time in thirty years. The players spilled onto the field to celebrate and the crown was just going completely nuts. Fireworks were going on. The atmosphere was just electric and Angel just loved it. She shared in the excitement with Jana.

Amongst all the craziness Angel turns to Jana and says, "That was just absolutely amazing!" and Jana responded, "In a few minutes it gets even better. There is a fireworks show!"

Angel replied, "How cool! I love fireworks!".

Ten minutes later the stadium lights turn off and the fireworks show began. Jana and Angel sat back down in their seats to watch. Angel took Jana's hand and then snuggled into her watching the fireworks. She looked at Jana and saw how happy she was. She thought about how happy Jana is back to be in her home state, to be able to show the love of her life the things she grew up doing. Like going to a baseball game for starters. The fireworks display lasted about about 20 minutes. It was just as exciting to watch as Jana remembered as she had been to many Royals games with her dad and remember watching fireworks after the game. After the fireworks display finished it was time to head back to the car and find something to eat. Both of them were famished as Jana didn't think about eating before hand as she was too excited to get to the game. Jana and Angel are walking hand in hand as they make their way through the stadium back to the car. The stadium was still filled with fans and the excitement of what just happened. When Jana and Angel reached the parking lot they could all her fans chanting

"Let's go Royals!" as they walked to their car.

As they approached the car Angel asked, "Who are the Royals facing in the playoffs?"

Jana responded as unlocking the car, "the Detroit Tigers."

Angel responded, "I didn't know there was a team in Michigan! We will have to go to a game whenever we visit there again."

Jana said, "That would be awesome. Maybe when they play the Royals.".

Both women got in the car. Angel turned the car on and they made their way towards the exit.

Angel said, "I don't know about you but I am famished."

Jana responded, "I am too. Let's go to Back Porch BBQ. The best BBQ in city and I have had it in ages!"

Angel said, "Sounds good to me!" And off they went to dinner.

Fifteen minutes later the arrived at the restaurant. They would have gotten there sooner but the traffic after the game was terrible and of course fans were still celebrating. Angel parks the car and turns it off as she and Jana get out of the car and make their way to the front door of the building. The minute Jana opens the door Angel is hit smack dab in the face with the aroma of the BBQ. Angel said, "Oh my gosh this smells so good!"

Jana replied, "Ah yes. This place hasn't changed a bit. I grew up coming her with my folks. What are we waiting for? Let's go get some food!"

Soon Jana and Angel were seated. They had a great view. Angel could see the stadium from a distance as the lights still on. The restaurant was packed with excited Royals fans still on a high from the game. A waitress came over to their table and took their order. They both ordered the pulled pork sandwich with fries and some water to drink. About fifteen minutes later their food came out. The waitress put Angel's plate of food right in front of her. Angel smelled it and said, "This smells amazing."

Jana replied, "Wait until you taste it."

Over the next twenty minutes there was nothing but quiet between the two of them. They were both just so hungry that there was no room for talk. Jana enjoyed watching Angel's reactions as she enjoyed her food. In fact she thought Angel was enjoying it too much as she thought as she wondered if Angel was going to have a food orgasm right then and right there.

The waitress walks over and asked them, "How are you enjoying the meal?"

Angel replies, "It is wonderful!"

Jana looks at the waitress, smiles and says, "The meat was terrific. This is my girlfriend's first time here."

The waitress looks over to Angel and says, "Welcome to Kansas City!" "Is there anything else I can get for you ladies?"

Jana replied, "No I don't think so. We are stuffed. Just the check please."

About two minutes later the waitress comes back the check. "Thank you for coming ladies, be safe and have a great night!"

Jana and Angel both responded with a thank you, Jana paid for the meal and they both headed for the car.

Once they got in the car and buckled in Angel said, "This has been such a great day. Thank you so much Jana."

Jana replied, "You are so welcome my love. I don't know about you, but I am ready to head to our hotel to relax."

Angel responded, "Sounds good to me!"

Once they were all buckled in, Angel started the car and drove off towards the hotel. Angel had no idea about the surprise that awaited her at the hotel.

