 
Just One Night

Rachel Lenna

Published by Rachel Lenna at Smashwords

Copyright Rachel Lenna 2014

# Smashwords Edition Licence Notes

This eBook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This eBook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

All characters, places and stories in this eBook are a work of fiction. Any similarities to any persons living or deceased or actual places inside or outside this book is pure coincidence and not intentional.

I do not own copyright of the song used in this story. All rights reserved solely to Jason Derulo.

This author is just a big fan and the song fit beautifully.

This eBook is interactive with most eBook compatible devices.

### Table of Contents

About this Book

Dedication

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Chapter 9

Chapter 10

Chapter 11

Chapter 12

Epilogue

Over The Weekend Coming Soon

About this Book

" _Every Friday night I go down to the club. Every Friday night I am pretending that I am trying to find a guy for Penny's sake. But every Friday night it's really to see Jaydan. Jaydan the sexy and awesome bar tender of Touché's. He is the highlight of my week and he doesn't even know it._

The guy is way out of my league. I'm frump and he's... well he's not. This Friday is no different, or at least it starts off no differently. Penny and I are having our weekly girlie drink but she takes off on me. Nothing unusual there either. Jaydan and I have become friends so I usually just hang out with him until the club picks up and I go home to bed.

However I have no idea tonight is going to be different. I have no idea that come morning everything I thought I knew would be blown sky high and things would never be the same for me again.

This is my story. This is my story about love. This is my story about courage, about hope, about faith. This is my story about how just one night can change everything. About how one night can seem to be looking like one thing will happen but end up being completely different with completely unexpected outcomes...

This is my one night to take a chance...

All it takes is Just One Night...

Dedication

To My children first and foremost, for those moments Mummy is so zoned in on her characters that time flies and you play well... Thank you.

To Grandpa, today marks two years and so I choose today to publish this... For you.

Chapter 1

"Pfft, look at those two will you?" I scoff to my friend Penny Kennard. She follows my gaze and watches the couple making out just to our left with me. "It's just so sick! They need to get a room!" We are in a nightclub, yes the lights are dimmed and there's alcohol and music playing but it is 8pm at night! Don't people like do that later? Shouldn't now be about getting drunk and turned on with your partners mating ritual of a dance?

"It's not sick Tara and you know it." Penny pats me on the shoulder. It's that annoying sympathy pat people do when they know more than they are saying out loud. She's silently telling me she knows I'm lonely and bitter and twisted at the ripe old age of nineteen and hate all the love in the world.

I'm not that bad, I promise. I admit that I get lonely sometimes. It has been three years since I had a boyfriend and he wasn't exactly the nicest guy out there. He was a jerk actually and really turned me off men for a while.

But here I am, in a club, sitting at a bar trying to snag a guy. Geez I sound like I'm forty but I'm not. At nineteen I should be partying and hooking up with lots of guys but that's just not me. I would like to think I have class and respect for myself.

I have had a few men approach me all the times we have been here but they all seemed seedy and highly intoxicated and this non-alcoholic would prefer it if her future man would be at least semi upright when he told me his name was "Bo-hiccup-snort-cough-b" or something along those lines.

After my first and last boyfriend I won't ever settle for anything less then I deserve again. He was a downright monster and as a teenager already lost in the world it took a while to recover from that and I learnt what to look for so I wouldn't do it to myself again.

Penny smiles at me with that sympathetic look she does when she doesn't know what to say. She's telling me with her eyes that she knows that I will continue to remain single and be lonely for quite a while yet because I am too stubborn to be anything but.

"Tara?" She prompts when I don't reply straight away.

"I do." I agree begrudgingly, sparing her one of my sooky la la moments.

We are sitting at the local bar in my small town of Shimmer River. Touchés, the best night club our little town of twenty thousand has, is quiet at the moment. It's early but Penny and I are having our weekly girlie drink at our usual time.

Penny has a husband and a wonderful life at home, but she wants to see me happy to so has designated her early Friday nights to me. We have been best friends since the seventh grade and she was with me through all the drama so she does this for me in hopes that someone will catch my eye.

Penny forgets that there aren't a lot of Tom's, her husband, around. Tom and Penny have been high school sweethearts since forever so he's like a big brother to me. Penny says that she hasn't given hop up on me yet, but I just say it's our lame brain attempt at finding me a boyfriend because the town seriously lacks prospects.

So far absolutely no luck on the boyfriend front but I have made a bartender friend who is so damn hot he could melt the sun. Bright blue eyes and jet black hair against a deep brown skin tone with muscles so big and bulgy he looks like a cross between a young Brad Pitt and the Hulk I know I'm not the only girl to drool when I see him. Not that he knows I drool about him. Oh dear god no, how embarrassing. He would never go for a girl as plain Jane as me with my plain light brown hair and plain brown eyes.

The only party of me that is even remotely girly would be my girlie assets. Our family is either blessed or cursed with well-rounded and curvy assets depending on who you talk too. Some of our ladies love all their curves where as others are a little more pessimistic. That would be my category. I feel like a frumpy pear with big boobs most of the time. Whoopee!

"Um excuse me?" A deep, familiar, voice says and I smile knowingly to myself. Penny's phone chooses to ring at the same moment and she touches my arm to let me know she's taking it. I nod at her just as the voice says, "How's my favourite customer?"

Jaydan.

"Heya Mr Spunky." I turn back around to face him, grinning from ear to ear. "She's good and how's her favourite bartender?" I wink playfully at him, knowing I can get away with it because it's something we do. Always play flirt with each other. For most normal people this would be the precursor to a relationship or, at the very least, a hot one night stand. But there is absolutely no way I would even allow myself to even think about thinking about going there.

I am totally out of his league. He has supermodels throw themselves at him. I get drunken bums often twice my age and way to drunk while being unable to say their own name. He hands me over a red lemonade without having to ask – I am a creature of habit, and always order the same thing – I smile at him in thanks.

"Great, great favourite customer." He grins at me as I take a sip, pulling a face at the tang of the red syrup. It's potent but I love it. "Good?" He asks cockily. He knows it is. He knows what I like.

"The best. Only you can make 'em this good." I rub his ego. He's fishing for compliments. "I bow down to thee." I add when his eyes twinkle in delight. I pretend to bow in my seat.

"And don't you forget it." He winks at me. "So how's your week been Beautiful one?" Okay so when he says stuff like 'Beautiful one' to me I can't help but dream a little about what it would like to be with him. Something about when he says that particular line to me, 'beautiful one' just does it for me, and is my own private little pleasure.

"The same ole same ole." I answer noncommittally as I always do. I try very hard not to let my girlie feelings show that I have a crush on him. That would be humiliating on a level I don't even want to think about. Jaydan always complains that people use bartenders as free therapy too, so I try not to do it and make our encounters as casual but fun as possible.

"Sounds fun then." He says frowning. He almost looks disappointed. I'm imagining that right? Why would he look disappointed? I'm only saving him from being a therapist to another sad sob story that also happens to be my life. There is an awkward pause.

"Yours?" I ask, breaking the silence. Anything is better than hearing metaphorical crickets in a club – anything! I will admit his frowning worries me though.

"Same 'ole stuff, day job, night job and in there, somewhere, sleep." He grins at me and all frowns are gone. I laugh at him as his bright blue eyes sparkle. They almost twinkle and I want to drown in them. God he's sexy.

"Tara I have to go," Penny says randomly appearing next to me again. I jump at her touch, not expecting it.

"You do? What? Why?" I squawk, my heart in my throat. "We just got here!"

"Tom rang, he wants to do some date night thing or something." Penny rolls her eyes but I know deep down she's excited. She absolutely adores her husband, as he does her.

"But he knows we have girl's night tonight?"

"I know honey I'm sorry, I will have to rain check." She grabs her stuff and drops a twenty on the bar. "He said something about we can only do it tonight or we will miss out or something? I don't really know sorry. Have a drink on me." She gestures towards the twenty. "Jaydan keep her company." She orders and smiles at me as she kisses my cheek. With that she's gone.

Chapter 2

"Well then." I say, turning in my seat to watch her retreating back. "That's just a tad awkward. Newlyweds." I shake my head, one half jealous the other half relieved. Jealous that she has someone who loves her so much that he wants to parry her at twenty and relieved because it means I get to go home early.

"You know talking to yourself is the first sign of insanity right?" Jaydan teases behind me, I turn to see him loading a new tray of dirty cups into the dishwasher.

I pin him with my best attitude stare. "No no no!" I grin like the Cheshire cat. "It's only when you answer your own questions that there's a problem! What I do is perfectly sane!"

"Oh right!" He says smacking himself on the forehead. "How stupid of me to forget such class one rules on being a loony." We both laugh just as a group of teeny bopper girls comes giggling into view. "Oh shit," He mumbles under his breath, looking uncomfortable. "I need a paper bag!"

"Pfft why?" I laugh spluttering red soft drink everywhere. "Talk about random."

"To hide my head." He says so seriously and with such a straight face I crack up laughing.

He looks at me like I'm the crazy one so I choke out, "Why?" again.

"Those girls come every time I am working. Their early tonight. She doesn't take no for an answer!" He gestures to the 5 girls all making a slow progression towards the bar, stopping every two steps to whisper amongst themselves while pointing in our direction. "The one in the middle, in the short skirt? She's been trying to get my phone number for weeks. No is not in her vocabulary."

"Aww." I mock him. "Poor little Mr Spunky Jaydan having girls throw themselves at him! How horrible!"

"Shh." He hisses throwing his tea towel in my face with a grin. I laugh at him as I pull it off my face. "You have no idea what it's like to be mauled! So bite me!"

"True." I agree, knowing full well he has no idea how right he is. No one ever tries to pick me up. They just stare or try to get Penny, regardless of her ring. "And where?" I add referring to his 'bite me' comment.

"Tara I don't mean it the way you're thinking."

"Oh?" I pretend to play dumb. "And what way am I thinking?"

"That no one finds you attractive." He gives me a heated pointed look. One that says 'I dare you to contradict me.' "Here, bite my arm. Maybe they will think I like freaky stuff and run away." He actually sticks his arm out, waving it in my face. I almost think he's serious.

I stare at him, open mouthed as the gaggle of girls finally reaches the bar, the lead girl twirling her hair and batting her eyelids. "Hey there Jaydan." She whispers in her attempt of a sultry voice. She sounds more like a frog choking. "How are you today?" She asks as she runs a fake manicured fingernail up his arm.

I want to punch her in the face.

"I'm good thank you Prissy." Jaydan says, all but yanking his arm away. I smirk behind my drink. "What can I get you?" He gestures behind him, to the shelves and fridges lined with drinks.

"You know very well what you can get me sweetheart." She says, suggestively throwing her body over the bar so that her boobs brush up against his arm. I gap at how blatant she is being. "And it's not here in the bar."

Now I choke on my drink, spluttering it all down the front of my dress. I crack up laughing so much I start crying. Choking out "Seriously?" a couple of times in between fits of hysterical laughter.

Jaydan comes to my rescue with a clean tea towel he plucked from nowhere while trying very hard not to laugh himself. At me or at her I don't care. She's such a bimbo. "You okay there T?" He asks as Prissy is shooting daggers at me.

"What's it to you?" She demands in that voice girls reserve for what they consider either competition or scum so far beneath them the core would melt it. "You don't need to associate with... that." She looks at me like I'm diseased with the most horrible contagious thing known to humans.

"Does that ever work?" I ask laughing still and completely ignoring her question – and her insult.

"Does what work?" She snaps.

"Throwing yourself at boys like that?"

"I believe that is none of your business." She huffs.

"Your right." I hiccup, still grinning from ear to ear. "So totally right. But thanks or the laugh though, haven't laughed like that in ages. Don't let me stop you, please, continue."

She stares at me and then turns back to Jaydan with a little huff. "So Jaydan, as I was saying..."

A tap on my shoulder has me turning around in my seat to see a guy with big burly muscles and a slicked back hair do smiling at me. He is tall dark and if I wasn't so into Jaydan, handsome. "Uh hi?" I say but it comes out like a question. A question of what the hell?

"Hey there yourself little lady." He says grinning at me. "Just saw you all by yourself here with that witch around and thought you might like some decent company." He gestures to the brats behind me and winks.

"Oh no I'm good thank you." I say quickly heart in my throat. He is a big guy and I would stand no chance at getting away from him if he wanted to cart me off somewhere. "I am about to leave soon, and the witch has all bark no bite."

"I heard that." Prissy hisses behind me and I smirk. Clearly the girl has good hearing when she wants to.

"No you can't leave!" Big Burly says quickly shaking his head. "It's only like 8, don't be a grandma!"

I smile at him respectfully, wanting to add him to my punch list too. No one calls me a grandma and gets away with it. I'm nineteen not ninety. Not the point if I act ninety and not nineteen though. "I'm not a grandma, I just don't see the point in hanging out here on my own. My friend ditched me for her husband."

"... Have a girlfriend." The end of Jaydan's sentence has my head snapping back to his direction.

"Who said what now?" I ask before I can stop myself.

"It's none of your business." Prissy hisses at me.

"Actually it is her business." Jaydan says before I have a chance to reply. I look at him confused. "I am telling Prissy that I have a girlfriend." Jaydan says with another pointed look at me. I know that look. Save me! There have been several times that I have pretended to be his girlfriend to get persistent girls off his back. I did it randomly one day and was so successful that he asked me to do it a few more times, earning me and Penny free drinks a lot.

"Yeah you sure do." I say sliding off the seat to lean in over the counter top to kiss his cheek. "And she's a very lucky lady." I wink dramatically at him for effect.

"What!" Prissy screeches loud enough a few heads turn this way. "I thought you were lying! Playing hard to get!"

She wails just as big burly bloke chuckles and mumbles "So this must be the famous Tara," under his breath. I look at him and frown. What the hell is he on about? How does he know my name?

He raises his hands in surrender, clearly my anger and confusion is on my face. He leans forward and whispers in my ear, "I am a friend of Jaydan's, names Hugo..."

"So you're the famous Hugo!" I whisper under my breath, cutting him off. Jaydan has spoken so much about this guy I almost got jealous every time. We talk about random stuff, him and me, never really personal with ourselves but lots about our friends and the good aspects of our lives. Like I said – he plays therapist to enough people already.

"Yeah. Guess we know about each other than hey? Once you're done playing girlfriend for Romeo over here why don't you come sit at our table over there." Hugo points to the VIP section of the bar where several more burly men are all seated, watching.

"Um...."

"They are all teddies Tara." Hugo says correctly reading my apprehension.

I raise an eyebrow.

"Really." He nods, trying to convince me. "We are. Just a bunch of young guys who like to work out."

"Okay." I agree figuring I have nothing to lose, just my life, as Prissy wails. "You can't be dating her! You're supposed to be with me!" She literally stomps her foot.

Chapter 3

I decide enough is enough.

"Prissy is it?" I say knowing that we have caused enough of a scene. Jaydan is just watching me with a look I have never seen before. I don't know what that means but he looks kind of space cadeted. Like the lights are on but no one is home.

"Yes." She snaps.

"Here's how it is. I am dating Jaydan, have been for well over six months." I grab his still hand and kind of pull him over the bar as I tuck his arm into the crook of my arm. "I adore the guy and appreciate a girl with good tastes such as yourself but I would absolutely love it if you would please back off from my boy? He really is taken and I really don't like to share." I kiss his cheek again for good measure, lingering longer partly because this is the second time I have gotten so close and he smells eatable and partly because the girl isn't going down easy. I pull away, wiping his cheek. His skin is rough, like the five o'clock shadow most women find so sexy.

Prissy and Jaydan both stare at me open mouthed. I lace my fingers with his but release his arm so he can stand up straight again. I stare her down. In the end she sighs and I know then I have won. "Fine," She concedes. "Jaydan can you please just get us our drinks?"

Jaydan stares at me instead of moves so I nudge him. "Their drinks babe." I gesture towards to the rows or alcohol behind him.

"Right." He says snapping to it. He gets them quickly without another word Prissy who quickly pays her money – full price - before disappear into the thickening crowd. Jaydan is still quiet and I frown.

"Have I done something wrong?" I ask, nervous. "I thought that's what you wanted me to do."

"It was," He answers not looking at me. "But you have never kissed me before."

I blush bright red in nanoseconds. "I'm sorry!" I squeak, jumping off the table. "I just thought she was a little too persistent to just believe words. If I had known it would have offended you I wouldn't have. I'm sorry!" I grab my bag and jacket, practically throwing the drink down on the bar. "I got to go. See ya."

"No wait." Jaydan says trying to grab my arm. "Tara stop. That's not what I meant."

I ignore him running for the door, wobbling a little bit as the brand new heels I bought protest with the quick pace. "Tara!" Jaydan calls again. "Tara stop!" I ignore him, humiliated beyond belief and am almost at the door when an almost familiar giant body blocks my path.

My head snaps up and I see Hugo standing there, staring me down. "Little lady stop."

I do because I don't have a choice. He is in my path and like three times my size. I look up at him and sigh. "Please let me go. I need to go home."

"Tara if you really want to go of course I won't stop you but I think you need to give Jaydan a chance to explain."

"Uh no." I say, a fresh wave of humiliation spreading over me. "I need to go."

"He's practically tried to leap over the bar to try and catch you." Hugo adds and I pause. "You sure you don't want to find out why?"

"No." I say, not sure.

"Why not?"

"Because I am that humiliated enough that I don't need a double helping thanks." I say, making a move to go around him. I get this feeling that he won't hurt me, something in my gut says that he really is a teddy bear and a true gentleman.

"He goes on break in around ten minutes. Why don't you come sit with us and see what he has to say?" Hugo tries again. "At least then you won't kick yourself for not finding out and wonder about it forever."

"Damn you." I mumble under my breath. "Using that psychobabble on me."

"Tara." Jaydan says behind me. I freeze and panic all at the same time. "Tara come on please. I go on break in ten minutes just stay. I didn't mean to embarrass you." He grabs my arm and I panic again.

"I... um... I..." I feel trapped.

"Come sit with us little lady." Hugo encourages. "Jaydan won't be long."

I look into Hugo's eyes searching for any hint of insincerity. I don't find it. He seems to genuinely care about his friend. I sigh in defeat. "Fine." I refuse to look at Jaydan and he lets me go with a sigh too, his feels more like relief but. "But I'm going home straight after okay?" I insist feeling like I need to have some say in how my night turns out.

"Totally." Hugo agrees as Jaydan nods, lets my arm go and disappears without a word. Hugo links arms with me and escorts me back to their table. I find it odd that as I walk with him people stare and part ways for us. Usually I have to battle the squishy crowd to get anywhere.

"Who the hell are you?" I mutter under my breath.

"Hugo." He chuckles.

"More like the pope." I mutter again as we reach the table.

Hugo chuckles again as he clears his throat. "Gentlemen shut up for a minute!" He waits until the three guys at the booth stop moving. "This little lady is Tara, the famous Tara. Tara this is Cameron, Tyson and Steven."

There is a round of hi's as I look from one burly man to another. They are all built and well over six foot each. I feel so intimidated I almost high tail it and run. Hugo must sense my apprehension because he places a hand on the small of my back, "Take a seat next to Cameron here." He says gesturing to the quietest guy on the table. "Did you want another drink?" The boys all hoot and holler yes but I shake my head.

"Um okay." I say sliding into the cushy seat as Cameron moves over. "No thanks." I add.

"So you're Jaydan's girlie friend." Tyson grins at me.

"Girlie friend?" I repeat, confused. "What?"

"Shut up Tyson!" Steven scolds. Clearly they know something I don't.

"You shut up." Tyson hisses at Steven, kicking him under the table. They share a glare and I watch with interest, wondering whether or not the evil looks they are giving each other are real or all pretend.

"Don't mind them." Cameron says quietly. "They both think they are better than the other. It's all horse play til one gets too big for his boots."

"I was wondering." I smile at him. "So how old are you guys?" I ask for conversation starters. They don't look to be much older than me, except for Cameron.

"Twiddle dumb and twiddle dee here are both twenty." Cameron smiles. "I'm twenty four. You?"

"Nineteen."

"Wow, you look younger, I would have thought seventeen max, with a fakie."

"Nah I don't do fakies." I reply knowing he is talking about fake ID. "I guess I'm just lucky. But you are the only one who has said that too me."

"Always a first for everything." Cameron returns just as Hugo plops down next to me as much as a big muscly guy can. He places another red lemonade in front of me. I look at him questioningly.

"Jaydan said cos you spilt most of your other one he wanted you to have this one."

"Oh." I say dumbly, dutifully taking a sip, my gaze turning straight to him. Jaydan is watching us and smiles when I catch his eye. I blush again before darting my gaze back to the boys.

"He's a good guy little lady." Hugo says out of nowhere.

"Excuse me?"

"Jaydan. He's a good guy."

"I know that." I sigh.

"Just making sure." Hugo pats my shoulder. "You know, just in case."

"In case what?" I ask puzzled.

"In case you know, you wanna go there but weren't sure."

"Hugo I am so out of his league." I say before I think.

"What?" Tyson stops bickering with Steven long enough to stare at me dumbfounded. "You're kidding right?"

"What are you talking about? What you mean am I kidding?" I ask feeling like a deer caught in headlights. "I'm not his type."

"Tara do you even know his type?" Steven pipes up.

"Er..."

"Exactly." Steven almost sounds offended on his friend's behalf.

"Boys that look like that... Never go for girls that look like me." I murmur.

"Tara you're gorgeous." Hugo exclaims, he looks genuinely surprised that I don't believe that. "Surely some boy has said that to you before somewhere?"

Chapter 4

I look at him blankly.

"Oh my god really?"

I nod my head, looking at them all like they have a few screws lose. My look is mirrored in their faces. "Why would you people even say that? I'm not pretty."

"Oh my god she's serious!" Cameron exclaims.

"Why are you all staring at me like that?" I know how fish in fishbowls feel now. It's awful.

"Tara you are stunning." For a quiet person Cameron sure is vocal now. "How can no one have told you before?"

"Um..."

"What about your last boyfriend?" Hugo pipes up. "Didn't he ever tell you, you were pretty?"

"No."

"Why the hell not?" Tyson demands.

I shake my head as tears spring to my eyes. "He said I wasn't all the time. He said I was lucky he gave me the time of day." I whisper as I grab my stuff and start shoving and Hugo. "Please let me go, I want to go home. Please?"

"Tara?" The boys all echo, genuine concern echoed in their voices. "Tara?"

"Please." I sob now on Hugo's shoulder. "Please let me go! Please?"

"I'm sorry Tara!" Tyson says hastily. "I was just surprised."

"It's okay. Hugo please! I need to go! Now!"

"Okay okay!" Hugo gets up hastily, looking so worried a fresh batch of tears threaten to erupt.

"I'm sorry, tell Jaydan I'm sorry." I mumble to the group and start running. I have taken two steps when I smack into something solid and warm.

"Tara?" Jaydan's steadying hand catches my upper arm. He is dangling a tray precariously above our heads. "What's wrong?" He repeats as Hugo immediately takes the tray.

"I'm sorry." I cry again trying to get out of his grip. Instead he just crushes me to him. "I'm sorry please let me go. I need to go home. This was a bad idea. Please." I mumble incoherently into his chest. His hard physical warmth soothing.

"Tara talk to me? What did the boys do?" Jaydan holds on tight and eventually I stop fighting so much and just sob into his chest instead.

"Nothing." I mumble against his chest, wrapping my hands around his waist. "They didn't do anything. It's me. I'm stupidly stupid."

"What's you?" Jaydan wraps his hands around my back, effectively cocooning me in his embrace. "I didn't hear that sorry."

I sob once more before I let out a big sigh. Pulling myself together, I pull away from him. "I'm me. They were just being really sweet and I freaked out. They didn't do anything wrong I'm just being an over sensitive girl."

"Okay?" He looks confused, there is no judgment in his eyes but I can tell he's curious. "I'm sure you're not being over sensitive sweetheart." He adds. "Why don't we go talk about it?"

"You don't want to know my problems Jaydan." I say, pulling completely out of his embrace now. I wipe my eyes with the back of my hand, taking in a deep breath I stand up straight. "Tell your friends I'm sorry." With that I turn to leave too.

"Tara." Jaydan catches my hand. "Please stop running away from me. I have seen you do it for six months now, but I can't be patient anymore."

"What?" I stop, and turn to look at him. "All you people are cryptic with your talking. First Hugo and now you. What on earth are you on about?"

Jaydan takes a deep breath and looks super nervous. More than the first time I met him and he was really weird around me.

"Jaydan?" I ask when he says nothing, just stares.

"Come." He says grabbing my hand, leading me back towards the table. He stops right at the edge and I smack into him. "Move. All of you, now. Find some girls to dance with for ten minutes." He commands with such intent even I feel like I should be marching towards the ladies too. Hugo, Cameron, Tyson and Steven all obey instantly without a word. He slides into the booth and pulls me along with him. I have no choice but to sit.

"Jaydan?"

"Look." He says taking another deep breath in. "Don't talk until I finish okay?"

"Jay..."

"Tara I mean it." He stops me. "Let me talk then you can say anything you want to."

"Okay." I agree.

"Miss Tara I-don't-know-your-last-name, how old you are or where you live..." He says and I wonder where he is going with this. "I don't know if you have any brothers or sisters, a boyfriend or anything either now that I think about it."

"Okay?"

"Just making sure..." He says as if a light bulb just switched on. "You don't have a boyfriend do you? I just realised I have never asked you."

"No Jaydan I don't." I laugh at his goofy expression. "I'm at a bar every Friday night with a girl, don't you think tha..."

"I said shh!" He barks at me, putting a finger to his lips. "I don't think around you it's too hard to. But... and there is a but. For the last six months I have watched you come in here, sit with Penny and go home by yourself. I see you fend off the sleazy guys and go home each and every time by yourself." He sits up straight. "Well that would have clued in the no boyfriend thing just a tad." He shakes his head. "But anyways..."

"Thanks for reminding me of that." I say, cutting in.

"Woman I said be quiet. If you don't I will just kiss you until your speechless."

"You will what..." I start right before he follows through with his threat. He grabs my head and he kisses me with a passion I have never felt before. Right there in the middle of Touchés he plants one on me. At first I am too stunned to respond then as his persistence melts me, I kiss him back with everything I have.

All the pent up feelings for him that I denied myself, all the times I fantasied about him and all the dreams I had about what it would feel like come out in my kiss. I grab hold of his head and practically throw myself on top of him as he deepens the kiss, moaning as I straddle him.

"Ahem?" A deep voice coughs loudly behind me. We break apart and I gasp as I see Hugo, Cameron, Steven and Tyson all grinning at us. "Maybe save that for when you guys are alone?" Hugo chuckles.

I gasp as I bury my head into Jaydan's shoulder. "Go away." Jaydan groans, pinning me firmly onto his lap my enveloping me in a hug. "I haven't finished talking to her yet." He grumbles.

"You call that talking?" Tyson scoffs. "Dude why don't the girls I date talk like that?"

"Shut up Tyson." Jaydan hisses at him. "Go away people. We need more time."

"I wonder why." Cameron smirks and earns a smack across the back of his head by Hugo.

"Five more minutes Jaydan," Hugo says. "But no kissing, talking or next time we sit and watch. There are no decent chicks here now and I feel like a flipper next to some of these... situations."

I gasp out loud and Jaydan chuckles. "He's kidding!" He says trying to reassure me.

"No I'm not." Hugo disagrees. "Five minutes boy or we sit and watch."

"Yeah yeah." Jaydan grins good naturedly at him. Hugo eyes him off one more time before he turns and herds the other boys back away from us. "I'm sorry about that." He says as I move to slide off his lap. He lets me and I sit next to him as politely and as lady like I can after that little episode.

"Jaydan..."

"Shh. I don't want to know what you have to say until you be quiet and let me finish what I need to say okay?" He shushes me again with a finger to my lips. "Okay?" He repeats when I don't move. I nod silently and he takes his hand away, brushing my messy hair out of my face. I quickly run a hand through it and realise that he somehow managed to undo it and mess it up quite well without my knowledge.

"Tara..." He stops again. "What's your last name?

"Sundown." I supply.

"Jaydan Baker." He points at himself. I nod. "Tara Sundown for six months I have tried to get your attention and for six months you haven't so much as given me a hint you were interested in me."

"But I..."

"Shhh!" He hisses and I clamp my mouth shut. "No talky talkies for Tara Sundown okay?" He raises an eyebrow and I nod again. "Anyways, when you saved me from Prissy tonight and actually kissed my cheek I was like blown away!"

"Why?"

"Tara!" He cries. "I will duct tape your mouth shut if I have to."

"Gee. All I said was why?"

He growls low in his throat grabbing both my hands and puts them against his chest. "I knew when you kissed me not once but twice tonight that I may have been wrong and I couldn't wait any longer for you to give me some big sign saying you were interested. I had to know one way or the other how you feel about me."

Chapter 5

"But you are so out of my league." I mumble, not believing what he is saying to me. "How can you possibly want to date someone like me?"

"Tara you're beautiful." He says in disbelief. "Surely you know that?"

I just look at him not responding either way.

"Oh my god Tara!" Jaydan gasps at me in total shock, then anger. "Whoever told you, you weren't needs to be punched in the head a few times."

"Hugo said something similar." I confess, knowing full well that they will tell him anyways. "In fact they all did."

"Told you what?"

"Hugo was telling me you were a good guy, and I said I knew that. But he seemed to insist on making sure I knew it." I sigh. "Of course I know it. But I just told him your way out of my league. A guy that looks like you does not date chicks that look like me."

"Tara..."

"He reacted the same way you did." I raise a hand to stop him. Jaydan has steam coming out of his ears and it's actually kind of cute. "Like I have rocks in my head or something. Then they all started calling me pretty and attractive and it just got too much. I couldn't handle it and that's when I ran into you... literally."

"You mean to tell me you were so upset because a few guys called you pretty?"

"Told you I'm stupidly stupid."

"Oh Tara!" Jaydan wraps me in a hug. "Honey whatever the guy that made you feel this way said, family, friends whoever. Whoever said that has no idea what they were talking about. You are so totally beautiful and way in my league, it's more me who's out of yours."

"Don't be ridiculous!" I exclaim. "Why would you think that?"

"You go to Uni." He says as if that's the only reason he needs. "I work in a bar."

"Yeah and?" I say.

"You're studying psychology. I still work in a bar."

"Don't you also work in your dad's distribution company?" I point out.

"Yes." He agrees. "They made a roll up for me because my passion was music. I didn't want to go to Uni but Dad wanted me to have a good job."

"Oh."

"So in other words an acceptable job in their eyes where I'm paid well but miserable."

"So you don't like your job?" I ask.

"Nope."

"So?" I say, shrugging. "Do music too."

"Music doesn't pay a lot beautiful."

"Please don't call me that." I say stiffening up again. "It makes me uncomfortable."

"Tara..."

"Jaydan your needed back at the bar." A young woman with pert boobs practically falling out of her top screams at him. "One of the newb's broke a keg"

"How the hell did he do that?"

"Dropped it off the top of the bar."

"How the hell did he get it up there?"

"I'm not sure sir."

"What was it doing on there in the first place?"

"I don't know sir." She takes a step back as he starts to move over me and out of the booth. He gets to the edge and spins back around to plant a kiss on me. "I have to go deal with this. I finish in like three hours can you wait for me?"

"What am I meant to do?" I blurt out without thinking. He's not my event planner!

"You can hang out with us." Steven says sliding in the booth opposite me. These boys sure have good timing. They keep appearing at just the right moment. "It would be nice to hang out with a decent chick for a change. This place will get crowded soon but only certain people are allowed back here so it's not so cramped."

"Please wait?" Jaydan asks, he looks a little unsure. I almost feel guilty.

What's the harm in waiting? The guy of my dreams is asking me to hang out with his friends and wait for him. How can I say no to that? "Okay." I agree and as they all start clapping I raise my hand to silence them. "On one condition but."

"What's that?" Tyson asks sliding in beside Cameron, tray of drinks in his hand.

"No one is to compliment me about my looks... in any way got it?" I stare them all down, my normal calmness taking over.

"Yes ma'am." Hugo salutes me. The others all nod.

"I mean it." I add for good measure. "One word and I'm out and none of you will be able to woo me to stay."

"I I ma'am." They all echo, this time I earn a salute off all five boys, Jaydan included.

"Okay good." He nods just as the female co-worker calls for him again. "Look after her boys." He says shooting them all a look.

"Of course!" Tyson looks offended. "Go be a boss." He goads.

"A boss?" I ask surprised. I know that Jaydan practically lives here on the weekends, but I didn't know he was a boss. "He's the boss?"

"He o... oww!" Steven cries as he is kicked under the table by someone. Hugo is shooting him daggers. "He will tell you all about it when he finishes I am sure." He says to me.

"He's the boss?" I whisper under my breath. "How old is he?" I question no one in particular.

"21 little lady." Hugo says when no one else responds. "In the hospitality industry that's considered a senior."

"Yeah I guess." I agree, nodding. "I'm just surprised. He seems so much more..."

"Mature?" Hugo supplys.

"Yes." I nod. I watch Jaydan take control of the situation in less than a second. He has people cleaning up and patching up in moments.

"Let's dance." Steven suggests extending his hand to me. He snaps me out of my gaze and I jump.

"I don't dance." I shake my head, sitting on my hands.

"Everyone dances Tara." Steven says waving his hand around. "No excuses miss. Let's go."

"But we just got drinks." I say gesturing to the tray full of fresh drinks. All four men pick up their respective drinks and gulp them down.

"Not anymore." Hugo smiles through the burning vodka grimace. "Let's go."

"But..."

"You have run out of excuses little lady." Hugo grabs my hand and hoists me up. "You're dancing."

Touchy feely people! I cry silently to myself. Don't take no for an answer bullies! I know I am being unreasonable but I feel like I have just suddenly gained four big brothers. Four bossy big brothers. "Okay fine." I sigh. "You people are really bossy you know that right?"

"Says the one who won't let us tell her she's beautiful." Cameron teases and I freeze. "Just sayin' pumpkin." He says hands raised in surrender.

"Ahh! Let's just do this." I say ignoring him. I march to the middle of the dance floor and the boys flank both my sides, two on each. I have no idea what I'm doing but I start listening to the music, feeling the rhythm and swaying with it. Eventually I loosen up enough as the boys start acting crazy around me, trying to impress the girls around us.

I am laughing at Steven's blatant attempt on a shy girl when I feel a tap on my shoulder. The hairs on the back of my neck stand up and I freeze. Only one person in this world sends chills up my spin.

"Tara." He says and I barely control my urge to shudder. I turn around to face the demon of my past.

"Joe."

Chapter 6

"Been a long time hey?" He says running his hand up and down my shoulder.

"Not long enough." I spit out, yanking my arm away. "Don't touch me."

"Aww babe, don't be like that." He grabs a hold of my arm this time, squeezing hard enough to bring tears to my eyes. "You and I both know that I love hard to get chicks. The thrill of the chase is oh so fun."

"Let me go." I order, with a fake bravado I pluck from nowhere. I will not let this man frighten me ever again. "I don't want to hurt you."

"You?" He laughs. "Hurt me? I doubt that little one."

"Joe let me go or I will hurt you." I say again with a deadly calm. "This is your last chance." He just smirks at me like I'm full of it and squeezes my arm tighter. I ignore the pain and instant bruises I know will be there and quickly stomp on his foot with my heel as hard as I can. He doesn't know I have been taking self-defence classes for three years now. That comes in handy and I stomp on his other foot too for good measure before he can even react.

"Ow!" He cries releasing me instantly, hopping on one foot then the other. "You're a crazy bit..." He doesn't get to finish because I punch him in the stomach as hard as I can. He recoils and falls to the floor coughing and spluttering.

"I warned you, you arrogant pig." I spit at him.

"Tara!" Hugo cries. "What on earth happened?"

"Meet Joe." I say gesturing to the guy rolling on the floor. "The reason no one can call me beautiful and why I don't believe it when they do."

"You're not beautiful you're ugly you little Fu..." Joe hisses at me but is stoped mid-sentence by a quick punch to the jaw as Steven who had stopped dancing with his girl comes to flank me again.

"You watch what you call her you gronk." He hisses at Joe. For the smartass member of the group the boy sure has balls to match his mouth.

"Get lost this has nothing to do with you." Joe mumbles on the floor. He blinks rapidly and I wonder if he is seeing stars?

"Out." Hugo orders.

"Hugo?" Joe says looking up towards the sound of Hugo's voice. "Is that really you?"

"Yes Joe." Hugo says side stepping Joe's out stretched head. "And seeing as you just assaulted my friend I'm asking you to leave."

"Hugo really?" Joe gasps, as he is hauled to his feet. "She's with you? I'm sorry man I didn't know!"

"I don't care bro. You never treat a woman with disrespect. Ever." Hugo grabs him by the shirt. "And no man ever man handles a woman like that in a club I'm in. So out."

"But Hugo this is the only good club in this god forsaken town!"

"You should have thought about that before you tried to assault my friend."

"I'm your friend!" Joe gets angry, shooting daggers at me again. "Ten years bro! You're gonna let ten years go over that girl?"

"Yes." Hugo shoves him into the arms of two security guys that appear out of nowhere. "Mr Gruffty here is not to be allowed back in the building."

"But Hugo..."

"Permanently." Hugo adds.

"Oh my god I'm gonna get you for this you silly little bit..."

"Watch it dude." Steven says stepping in his face again.

"Are you really going to give up ten years of friendship for that little whore?" Joe all but screeches at Hugo as the security guards open the front door.

"That's it." I say, angry now. "You are carrying on like a child Joe." I march up to him and swing at his head, connecting with his jaw. A loud crack echoes through the nightclub – even over the loud music.

"Oh my god. You broke my jaw you bitch!" Joe wails trying to grab at his face but he can't as the security have his arms. "You all saw that! I want to press charges!"

"Yep." I agree. "Sure did. Want me to do your nuts too?"

"Tara!" Hugo exclaims, trying hard not to laugh but failing miserably.

"What?" I ask innocently batting my eyelids at him. "He deserved it. He's lucky it was me and not another one of all you. He's still conscious. What more does he want?"

"I will get you. Just like before you little dog." Joe whispers just as the security guards, both of which are trying to hide smiles, take him out of the building.

"Why on earth would you date a guy like Joe?" Cameron questions.

"It's a story I don't want to talk about." I lift my head in defiance. I am trying very hard not to let his last comment come crashing back on me. "Can we just go dance some more?"

"Sure." Tyson agrees, looping arms with me. "But I think we all need another drink first."

"I agree!" Deciding alcohol might help calm my nerves. I can't let the boys know how horrible Joe used to be to me. It's to humiliating. I don't want more people feeling sorry for me than I already have.

"You guys go sit I will get it." Hugo offers, but I grab his arm.

"Can I come?" I ask. "I need some ice for my hand." I wave it around a little.

"Sure Little Lady." He agrees, linking arms with me. Again the entire club gives us a wide berth and I wonder why I never noticed these boys before. He clearly has some power here to be able to order people out and have it carried through. Who are these people?! I have no time to think about it but as we walk up to the bar where Jaydan is chatting with a pretty little blonde thing. Her skirt has barely covered anything and her shirt covers nothing. A momentary jealous rage shoots through me until I see him shaking his head at her. Then I just feel stupid. I'm not even dating the guy and I want to punch on with yet another person tonight. That punch list is getting pretty big for someone who considers themselves a passive person Tara!

"I told you. I have a girlfriend." Jaydan says firmly, I can just hear him above the music, which seems to have been turned up a notch since the Joe moment, as we reach the bar.

"But Jay Jay you can have me too! She doesn't need to know!" The girl leans forward, squishing her boobs against the countertop. I think I see nipple!

I laugh loudly and they both turn to look at us. "Tara!" Jaydan exclaims looking both relieved and mortified to see me at the same time.

"It's okay Jay Jay." I lay a hand on his, grinning stupidly as he cringes at the name. "I'm not gonna get into a fight with her, one fight is enough for me tonight. We just came for some drinks and ice."

"You got into a fight?" Jaydan shoots daggers at Hugo. "I thought I told you to look after her."

"She dated Joe Bro." Hugo says, raising his hands in surrender. "And besides, she won on her own. She didn't need us."

"You dated Joe?" Jaydan's jaw drops.

"Let's stop judging the injured girl here boys." I hold up my hand, deliberately in front of Miss Skank next to me. My knuckles are all red and swollen and one has split open a centimetre or two so a little so blood is slowly oozing out down my hand. "This lady needs some ice please."

"Oh my god Tara!" Hugo cries yanking on my hand towards his face. "You're a machine!"

"A what?" I laugh.

"Most girls would be rolling on the floor crying and you're just here casually saying it like it happens all the time – and there's blood!"

"It didn't really start hurting until about ten seconds ago." I admit sheepishly. "But now I am feely a bit girlie with the blood."

"Here beautiful." Jaydan produces a tea towel filled with ice. "This should help. Sit down and stop looking at it. The queasiness will go."

"Thanking you." I say taking the seat Hugo shoved some poor guy off for me. "Sorry about that." I say to the guy and he just shrugs. Clearly not a guy to fight back he walks off quietly.

"Beautiful? You don't call me beautiful!" Skank Queen scoffs. Oh yeah, I forgot about her. Jaydan shoots her a pointed look. Then the light bulb clicks. "She's your girlfriend?" The girl's mouth hangs open and I wonder why all the girls around here have such a hard time believing I am his girlfriend.

"Yeah she is." Hugo says when we don't respond. "So with all due respect Miss I was wondering if we could just order our drinks now in peace? And could you leave my girl's guy here alone?"

"Pfft. Men. I think I need to turn lesbian." She scoffs getting off the bar stool and walking away without another word.

The three of us stare at each other in shock and then break out laughing.

"Did she really just say that?" I say through laughter tears.

"Yes." Hugo and Jaydan nod.

"It's worse this late at night then it is when I usually come in." I say when we all calm down moments later as Hugo takes her vacated seat. "How do you put up with it?"

"What is?" Jaydan asks.

"The girls hitting on you."

"You get used to it. Most of the club in here thinks I have a girlfriend. Most still try anyway. It's called alcohol." Jaydan replies nodding to a person behind me who shouts his drink order over my head. Jaydan quickly gets to work on getting the order.

"Hugo what's a good drink for a non-alcoholic like me to have after a night like tonight?"

"Vodka." He says without hesitation. "With an energy drink."

"Okay." I say nodding. "I will have one of those." I move the ice to my upper arm and sigh in relief.

"He hurt your arm too?" Jaydan demands, noticing my movement.

"He saw me before I saw him." I shrug. "No big deal. I bruise easy anyway."

"Show me." Hugo and Jaydan both say at the same time. I look at them surprised by the ferociousness of their tones.

"It's no big deal." I shrug again, the looks on the faces scaring me a little.

"Tara show me." Jaydan says as he hands the guy behind me his drinks and takes the money.

"Fine." I concede removing the iced tea towel to reveal Joe's giant hand print on my upper arm. It is already a nasty shade of purple and I flinch at the word that comes out of Jaydan's mouth. Hugo isn't much better.

"I told you to look after her bro!" He hisses at Hugo who looks horrified.

"Jaydan I am not some porcelain doll you know." I say getting up off the seat as he places a shot of vodka in front of me. He pours the energy drink in and it bubbles up. "You do not have a right to boss me or anyone else around because of me."

I scull the drink in a moment. "And just FYI, I only met Hugo tonight and he has done nothing but be courteous and charming and thoughtful of me so back the hell off him. he's done pretty good for someone that barely knows me." With that little huff, I turn my back, march back to the table and grab my things. Jaydan and Hugo staring at me opened mouthed as I go.

"Where you going Tara?" Steven asks getting up instantly when he sees me charging at the table.

"To the bathroom." I say a little more harshly then I meant to. "To fix my hand and freshen up. Is that okay with you oh great babysitter of the night? I do not need one for this okay? Tell your minions I will be back shortly."

"Yes ma'am." He says sitting instantly.

"Good." I huff. Then take a deep breath. Oops. "I'm sorry." I say sincerely and he nods. "Just been an interesting night and I'm a little overwhelmed."

"I understand." He says nodding. I'm glad he gets it because I really don't feel like having to explain myself again. I nod back at him as we share a look before marching towards the ladies room, this time everyone clearing a path for me. Clearly I have crazy eyes happening.

Chapter 7

Half an hour later, after spending a good part of the time crying and cleaning myself up I walk out of the bathroom feeling like a confident woman again. I still have the tea towel with ice on my knuckles and the pain has subsided substantially.

I am surprised at the sight that is the club now as the music seems to have increased in volume and the crowd at least doubled. I look at my phone. Surprisingly its already 11.30pm. Make's sense. This is usually when all the hip young ones arrive to party the night away.

Usually I am at home in bed now fast asleep. But not tonight. Nooooo tonight I somehow managed to allow myself be talked into staying in this club to wait... For a boy! A boy! Don't think that has quite sunk in yet.

So instead of doing what is safe I head back towards the bar to where the bar stools have been removed and the line-up is huge. "Guess not." I say thinking that Jaydan will have to wait. Instead I head towards the VIP section, which I can't see because there are so many people, hoping the boys haven't left yet.

Luck is on my side when I find Tyson sitting at the table. I walk over to him meekly, but with a straight back standing at the edge of the table. "Hi." I yell because I have to.

"Hey yourself." He smiles and pats the seat next to him.

"Where are the others?" I say plonking down next to him, relieved they are so willing to excuse my... girlieness.

"I don't know." He shrugs. "We all have been taking turns staying here for you hoping that you will come back."

"Oh you didn't need to do that." I exclaim. "Of course I was going to come back! I just needed some time to pull it together."

"We figured." Tyson nods and looks behind my shoulder. I turn to see what he's staring at. Jaydan dressed out of his uniform in normal clothes is standing a short distance away.

"Jaydan?!" I gasp, my mouth dropping.

"Yeah." He smiles knowingly.

"Oh my god you were hot in Uniform but out of it..." I clamp my mouth shut when I realise I am thinking out loud. He chuckles at me as he sits beside me.

"Thanks." He grins. "That's a big compliment coming from you."

"Um..." I don't know how to respond.

"I want to apologise for my moment back there." He says gesturing towards the bar saving me from another awkward moment for foot in mouth disease. "I have just waited so long to get your attention I didn't want to lose it before I had a chance to show you who I really am." Jaydan sounds sincere and it must be hard for a guy to say that out loud, let alone in front of his friend. Tyson doesn't help when he starts making gagging noises. We both shoot him a death stare. He clamps his mouth shut quickly.

"Jaydan you don't need to apologise. I... it's... um..." I stop rambling because I really don't know what to say. I understand why he carried on like a caveman but I don't know how to say it. "I'm not good at this stuff." I confess figuring I have nothing to lose.

"It's okay Tara." He smiles at me and grabs my injured hand. "How's it feeling?" He asks as he takes the wet towel off.

"The ice has almost melted completely through but much better." I say as we both study it. The swelling has subsided substantially and the bleeding has stopped. "I think the ice has made it numb cos it doesn't hurt much."

"Will a kiss help it too?" Jaydan asks hopefully and I laugh at his expression. A hint of cheekiness thrown in with hopefulness and something else... fear?

"If it's coming from you I'm sure it will be magical." I throw back at him, catching him completely off guard. Jaydan stares at me blankly. Tyson starts gagging again.

"Will you two go get a room or something please?" He begs. "It's getting to sweet in here. All the women within ear shot will expect to be romanced before they take me hope! I don't need more work!"

"Pfft." I say throwing the tea towel over his face. "You man whore!"

"Proud of it!" Tyson mutters through a mouth full of towel.

"Your just jealous bro." Jaydan goads him as Tyson pulls the towel off. Tyson pulls a face and we all laugh.

"Nah man there are plenty of fish in the sea." He insists.

"You wanna get out of here?" Jaydan asks, gesturing towards the door. I just nod. He gets up out of the booth and gives me his hand to take. At first I hesitate but do anyway as I realise figuring out how to do this will be awkward and probably uncomfortable at times. For both of us.

He entwines his fingers with mine and leads me out of the club without another word, waving at Tyson who salutes us as we go. The bouncers all wave at him and smile at me, especially the two that chucked Joe out. I grin back at them when they bow to me.

We step out into the cool night air and I involuntarily shudder. "You cold?" Jaydan asks instantly.

"No no." I say shaking my head. "Was just a shock is all. I didn't realise it's like an oven in there." I gesture towards the club.

"True." He nods. "You hungry?" He asks when the awkwardness gets a bit much.

"Yes I am actually." I laugh as my stomach rumbles, agreeing.

"Well we can't have that can we?" Jaydan smiles. "Do you like Pancakes?"

"Pancakes?" My mouth waters instantly. "There's pancakes open at this time of night?"

"There is in this part of the city. It's only a short walk but we can catch a taxi if you prefer?"

"I'm good." I shake my head. I love being outside on warm summer nights, granted we are towards the end of summer but they are still warm enough to enjoy. "Let's walk."

"Okay." He nods enthusiastically and we start walking side by side in companionable silence. "So how you really feelin'?" He asks several moments later.

"I'm okay." I answer automatically.

"Tara?"

"Yes?"

"Really?" He looks at me like he doesn't believe me.

"Jaydan four hours ago you were my bartender that I crushed on, now I'm holding your hand going to get pancakes after hanging out with your friends for half the night."

"You crushed on me?"

"How did I know out of everything I said that's what you would hear?"

"Because I'm a man?"

"You got it sweetheart." I laugh at his wounded expression because I agree with him. "There there." I pat his arm like you would a dog. "You don't want to get that pretty face all frozen."

"Frozen?"

"One thing my mum used to say to me when I was a kid was to not pull faces or the wind would freeze it in place like that forever."

"Oh my god your mum said that to you too?" Jaydan sounds so excited, like he found out a long lost treasure. "I thought my mum was the only one to ever say that to me!"

I laugh. "No. my mum did too, it was mainly to my brothers but I got it occasionally too."

"Did you believe her?"

"Of course!" I laugh. "At first anyways. What about you?"

"Yeah right up until the eighth grade." Jaydan looks embarrassed. "I told my friend off with the line one day when he promptly told me it was a lie. We argued about it for the whole of lunch. When I confronted mum she didn't even know I still believed her."

"I bet she had a good laugh about it but." I goad him.

"She did. So did dad and my brother." Jaydan grows serious suddenly. "You're good at changing the subject but you need to answer my question anyway."

"What question?" I ask innocently.

"You know what question Tara." He frowns at me and I stare at him innocently some more. "How you feeling?"

I sigh. I was hoping he would forget! Clearly not. "I'm in shock if you must know. Not a bad shock just a shock. Part of me thinks I'm going to wake up and it will be all a dream."

"It's not a dream Beautiful."

I grin stupidly at his comment.

"What?" He asks.

"You are the only one who can say that to me and I don't go all funny on them."

He raises an eyebrow.

"Okay fine not as funny." I concede.

"I will take that as a compliment." He kisses the back of my hand and I swoon. "Here we are." He gestures to a shabby old building and I look at him in surprise. "Don't judge a book by its cover Little Lady." He smiles knowingly.

"I'm not!" I lie. He raises that eyebrow again and I resist the urge to smooth it down. "I trust you." I insist.

"Good." He says as he opens the door and we walk in. The delicious smell of pancakes, maple syrup and all things sugary hits me smack bag in the face. We are greeted to be seated fairly quickly, even though to my surprise the place is packed almost to the brim and there is a line that is almost at the door.

Chapter 8

"Who are you?!" I ask knowing that he has to be a regular at least.

"I'm Jaydan Baker."

"Very funny."

"Well you asked."

I roll my eyes. "I really need to get a life." I murmur to myself as we walk past patrons all staring at us. We are lead to the VIP section again and not for the first time I wonder who Jaydan is.

"Why is that?" Jaydan chuckles as we sit at a spacious, elegant mahogany table. I choose to ignore him as the explanation is self-explanatory. The wait staff even pull my chair out for me, not used to such service I freak a little before sitting.

"Mr Jaydan how are you this evening."

"Good thank you Jin, and yourself?"

"Good good sir." The waiter smiles.

"This place is awesome!" I exclaim looking around at all the art works and photos. It looks like a dingy old diner but the furniture is comfortable and gorgeous.

"Glad you like it ma'am." The waiter bows at me. "We love our little place."

"It's wonderful, so much character." I smile back at him. He beams with pride.

"We like to make it about the customer." He hands us both a menu and the picture on the front page has my mouth watering. "Welcome to Pancakes. My name is Jin, Our special is on the front for tonight, mains just inside on the left, desserts and drinks on the right hand side. I will be back in a moment with your water."

"Thank you," I murmur head stuck inside the menu already. "They have pictures! Why would they do that? How on earth am I meant to choose just one? They all look so good I'm not gonna be able to choose just one!" I mumble to the menu and Jaydan laughs at me. "This sucks. Do they have an everything on it plate plate?"

"Good to see you're a girl who likes her food!" He smiles at me and my head snaps up.

"I am not one of those anorexic chicks that will have a side of lettuce and that's all." I point out, defensively. "If that's what you want I'm not the girl for you."

"Tara relax." Jaydan lays a hand on my arm. "I like it. I like a girl who can be comfortable enough to eat in front of me. As strange as this sounds but that's a turn on."

I blush crimson and dive right back into the menu, choosing to let it go. Too much! Too much! "You must eat here often enough for them to know your name." I say ignoring his comment completely. The menu is making my stomach grumble louder. "What's your favourite?"

"The chocolate and maple syrup flavoured pancakes topped with strawberries, ice cream, vanilla cream and chocolate shavings... with a side of strawberries and warm maple syrup." He answers instantly.

"Oh my god." I sigh, my mouth watering. "I think have died and gone to pancake heaven. I will have one of those, I just can't decide otherwise."

"Good choice." Jaydan laughs just as Jin comes back. "Two of the Jaydan specials please Jin."

"Good choice sir." He nods as he places our water glasses down. "Would you like any drinks with that?"

"No thanks." I shake my head. Even I know the calories in the food will be enough for me to have to run a marathon every day for a week. "Water is perfect for me."

"Decaf black please Jin." Jaydan smiles at him.

"Sure sir." Jin bows and is gone in a flash.

"So," Jaydan says after we sit awkwardly for a moment.

"So," I repeat, grinning at him.

"You like stuff?"

"Yeah I do." I laugh. "Do you like stuff?"

"I love stuff."

"Well that's good. What stuff?"

"Oh you know, a bit of this and a bit of that."

"So totally do. Same type of stuff I like actually."

"Oh yeah?" Jaydan grins at me. "Sounds interesting."

"Totally is you know?" I nod enthusiastically. "Best stuff going around."

"Great, now that we have established that you like stuff and I like stuff, what else do you like?"

"I can tell you what I don't like." I say taking a sip of water.

"Oh yeah?" He says not skipping a beat. "What's that?"

"I don't like that question."

"Okay?" Jaydan looks a little taken aback, clearly he wasn't expecting that answer.

"I don't mean to be abrupt, but I find that question is used when people are desperate for conversation because things are getting really awkward." I take a deep breath. "It's kind of like a desperate attempt to make sure that you're definitely not compatible with that person before you find an excuse to leave. Then high tail it and run."

"Psychology major." Jaydan taps his head. "Must remember that for future reference."

"You want there to be a future reference?" I blurt out before I have a chance to put a filter in place between mouth and brain.

"Of course." Jaydan looks surprised. "I meant what I said Tara. I have waited six months for you to give me some sign you were interested."

"I didn't think someone like you would like someone like me." I say shyly.

"Someone like me?" Jaydan arches an eyebrow. "Should I be offended?"

"You have girls throwing themselves at you, plenty a lot better looking than me. Most in fact. Why me over all them?"

"Tara you're more beautiful than any of them."

"Ehh! Wrong answer. Please try again." I smirk.

"Because you're real?"

"How would you even know that?" I retort. "You see me in a bar for a couple of hours a week."

"For starters you don't have all your lady parts hanging out, secondly not once have I ever seen you leave with a guy let alone a different guy every weekend. Thirdly you don't have caked on makeup your just naturally stunning. Fourthly you have a mind of your own and a tongue to match, fifthly you care about people. I mean how many times have you saved my bacon from the gaggle of crazy girls just because I asked you too? Do I need to continue?"

"A lot." I concede. "No." I shrug. "But I thought you just saw me as a friend doing a friend a favour."

"Oh my god Tara no!" Jaydan exclaims. "I wanted you from the moment I saw you. I know a girl with class when I see one."

"I'm not from class." I frown. "God if you met my family you would think I am pulling a prank on you or something."

"What do you mean?" Jaydan frowns.

Oops. "Never mind." I shake my head taking a sip of water. How on earth am I meant to explain my family to him? He would run away.

Hell I ran away.

"Tara."

"Yeah?" I say, refusing to meet his eye.

"Tell me." He coaxes.

"You will think differently of me."

"Not possible."

"You say that now but you have no idea."

"Tara I put my money where my mouth is. I don't judge people either. Tell me." He crosses his arms over his chest and I realise he won't give in.

"You know for a guy that I really just met properly you're pretty pushy on a first date."

"Is that what this is?" He grins at me.

"I... Um... I..." I realise I put my foot in my mouth? I cringe not knowing how to respond.

"Relax baby girl." He softens. "I just really want to get to know you. Like properly. No bar talk. No all just the nice stuff, I want warts and all. Family is a good place to start? Who doesn't have lots of warts in their family?"

"Um..."

"Exactly. Now tell me. It can't be that hard?"

"When it's mine it can be."

"Well think of it this way," He says looking me in the eye, "If you get all the ugly out now and I'm still around – which I think I need to point out again I will be no matter what – maybe you will relax a little and realise that I actually do like you."

I stare at him speechless. "I um. Don't know what to say to that. This is so new to me. And scary. Did I mention scary?"

"I am scared too. I have waited a long time for this moment." Jaydan moves a stray piece of hair from my face. "Tell me about your family Tara."

"Fine." I pout. "But when you want to run away screaming I will chase you down to say I told you so okay?"

"Yep."

"My father attempted to commit suicide five months ago and has been in a mental hospital ever since. My mother is close to joining him because she doesn't know how to exist without him. My youngest brother is in jail for fraud and my oldest brother hasn't been seen since my father tried to off himself. He checks in occasionally to let us know he's still alive but other than that not a peep. Before that was no picnic in the park either but the last five months have been trying to say the least."

"Oh." Jaydan's smirky, smarty exterior deflates instantly.

"I told you," I take a big drink of water just as Jin brings Jaydan's coffee. "You wanna run away now don't you?"

"Nope." He shakes his head. "Just means my respect for you has sky rocketed even more."

"Oh." Well that's new too.

Chapter 9

"How old are you?"

"Nineteen." I reply automatically. "You?"

"Twenty one." He replies mid sip. I nod knowing that, I am just confirming it.

"What about your family?" I ask trying to get away from the icky subject that is my own. It's not something many people know. In fact outside my immediate family three people know. Including Jaydan now.

Penny and Tom of course are the other two. Tom is like a brother to me and he is very sympathetic to me needing to steal Penny away from him regularly. They were both there for me when my family started falling apart, picking me up off the floor constantly when it all got too much, especially on the days when Mum would drink herself to sleep and I wouldn't know if she were dead or alive.

They were there when I finally cut ties with them a month ago too. I just couldn't do it anymore. Not one family member is wanting let alone willing to help themselves. They were all too happy to be victims and cry about it and that's just not me.

After I had to call an ambulance for my mother for the sixth time in five weeks I packed my small amount of things with Penny and Tom's help and I walked out. I have not spoken to any of them since. It has been refreshing but with so much time on my hands I really had to think about what I wanted.

"Well my dad is a bit of a hard ass sometimes, but it comes from the right place and my mum is the sweetest woman you will ever meet." Jaydan's face softens when he mentions his mum and I smile at him. I'm genuinely happy for him. "My brother... well you ah... you... kind of know him." Jaydan looks a bit uncomfortable.

"Hugo?" I question, it clicking now why Hugo went all big brotherly on me.

"You got it."

"Makes sense." I shrug.

"He's only twenty five but anyone would think he's fifty sometimes." Jaydan rolls his eyes.

I laugh at him because I can see where he is coming from. "I'm sure it's all with good intent though." I feel like I need to defend Hugo, after all he has done it for me for most of the night.

"Always." Jaydan agrees whole heartedly. Then he grows sober very quickly. "So there's something I have been meaning to ask, and I know it's none of my business but I'm curious..."

I brace myself for his question, having a pretty good idea what it is, I nod.

"Why on earth were you dating a guy like Joe?"

I flinch. Of course he would want to know. After all we caused a scene tonight. I unconsciously rub my arm and shudder. "We met when I was fifteen. He was a charmer and all the girls at school thought he was like super-hot, you know him being a senior and everything made him so much more irresistible."

Jaydan nods, remaining quiet.

"Well he started following me around. I was in year nine. He was graduating. What fifteen year old girl wouldn't feel like a queen having a senior as popular as him following her around?" I sigh the memories feeling so real. "Anyways he started writing me love notes and bringing me flowers and chocolates, even went as far as asking Penny what my favourite chocolates were just so he could really show me he liked me..."

"Okay." Jaydan prompts when I stop. The memories are flooding back fast now.

"At first I wasn't interested. A shy little fifteen year old girl who never had been kissed let alone had a boyfriend was being chased by the most popular boy in school. I thought it was a hoax or something, I didn't really believe he actually liked me." I sigh again. "He wore me down but still wouldn't give in. We were at a footy game, the first one for the season and he had just scored the winning try. The commentator had walked up to him and asked him how he felt. First thing he said was 'This is for the Little One who won't give me the time of day but has my heart."

"Oh geez." Jaydan says, he look's horrified. "How could any girl resist that?"

"Yeah well he won me over then. We dated for like the whole year and at first everything was fine. He was sweet, loving and completely devoted to me. Then it was towards the middle of the year when he started to go all funny. Trying to pressure me to have sex with him and do things I was not comfortable with."

"Tara..."

"Jaydan shh otherwise I won't be able to finish." I put my hand to his lips. "It took me a while to figure it out but it was after my sixteenth birthday that he really started to push. He was more and more persistent and would get angry and shout and call me names when I would say no."

"Did he ever hurt you?" Jaydan demands.

"Not until the very end." I blurt out. "He started scaring me more and more by doing and saying some crazy things. He stopped taking me places with him and would never answer my calls or texts. In the end I became so afraid of him that I gave in because he said that the only way he could love someone like me is if I did do it with him."

"Tara..." Jaydan grabs my hand and pulls me up out of my seat and on top of his lap. He wraps his arms around me and I hold on tightly to my emotions.

"By that stage he had me doubting everything I believed in myself and I figured that he was right. The only way he could love me was if I did that for him. Once we did it though he told me he didn't love me anymore. That he never loved me but had loved deflowering me." I shudder. "I was so upset and distraught that I smacked him across the face out of reflex."

"You go girl!" Jaydan cheers. "He deserved it."

"Yeah well he got really angry. He told me he would kill me and that I had always been a bet between him and his school mates. He said his real girlfriend could satisfy him unlike me and then started to rough house me again."

"Tara he didn't..."

I move away from Jaydan's chest to look into his eyes. With my look I tell him what he is thinking is right. I can't bring it out in words. Not now. It's too raw and humiliating still. My eyes tell him, yes Joe physically hurt me. Yes Joe is a monster. I pull up my dress a little to show the top of my right thigh. A jagged line about 20 centimetres long zig zags up my leg. "He had a knife with him. I didn't know that until he stabbed me out of nowhere and then cut my leg up."

Jaydan runs a hand up my leg not in a sexual way but in trying to offer me comfort. "I'm gonna kill him." He says in a deadly steel voice I have never heard him use.

"Jaydan please don't. He's not worth it."

"Why isn't he in jail?"

"My parents were unwilling to pay for a lawyer and because of my age I didn't have that much weight in court. His lawyers threw my family's background into it and how I must be unstable and able to make this stuff up and believe it. He ended up being let go with a two year good behaviour bond. That's it."

"Even with the evidence on you – like literally?"

"Yep." I nod.

"That's wrong on so many levels."

"Yes well I can't do much about it now."

"He shouldn't be free." Jaydan insists. "He's clearly still behaving like a twat."

I laugh as I subconsciously rub my arm. "I don't want to think about him anymore."

"Okay." Jaydan agrees quickly.

"Well there you have it. My sob story. The reason I don't trust anyone. The reason I don't believe anything people tell me. The reason I couldn't believe you would like me. The reason why I still am battling myself right now about how it's even possible."

"Tara you're beautiful." Jaydan says just as Jin comes back with our food.

I am gonna tip this waiter like a month's salary! Talk about timing! "Thank you!" I sniff hopping off Jaydan's lap and sitting back in my own seat. The plate is filled to the brim and my mouth waters instantly.

"Anything else I can get you?" Jin asks, discreetly.

"No thanks Jin we are good for now." Jaydan answers, while picking up his fork and Jin disappears quickly. We eat in companionable silence for a while. Myself in my thoughts about how good it feels to tell someone about my history and not have them run away, although looking at Jaydan I can't be sure he looks like he's thinking something that he doesn't like.

Chapter 10

"What's going on in that head of yours?" I ask.

"I have worked with Joe for three years now." Jaydan says gulping water down. "Not once has he ever given any indication on how messed up he is."

"I think it's only something he does with his girlfriends." I say.

"What do you mean?"

"Well after me and after the trial, he had missed out on going to Uni so stayed around town for a while. He ended up dating another girl who disappeared after about six months. She was a happy person like I was and by the end of it not so much. But no one else ever has anything bad to say about him"

"You mean like literally disappeared or moved away?"

"Moved away." I answer. "Like from the embarrassment or something. I couldn't do that, I was only sixteen. My parents were useless about my welfare the only thing they did was give me a roof over my head."

"How did you end up here then?" Jaydan asks, sounding dumbfounded. "And so normal?"

"My dad has always been a proud man, never one to admit he had mental health issues. When he tried to commit suicide last year I knew I had to get away one way or another. Penny and Tom have been high school sweethearts since the sixth grade. They got married just before my father tried to off himself and had got a place together. It had a spare bedroom. They asked me if I wanted to move in with them."

"Oh." Jaydan says through a mouth full of food. "That must be tough for you hey?"

"Of course." I say instantly. "They are newlyweds, they should be together by themselves not with a tag along. Penny feels she has to invite everywhere they go because she doesn't want me to be alone. That's why I enrolled in Uni to do the psych degree. So I have an excuse to be away a lot. I only just moved all my stuff out of mum and dad's house officially last month."

"That's clever." Jaydan nods. "And wow. I see you every week for six months and wouldn't picture any of it."

"I'm good at hiding my feelings."

"Clearly." He agrees. "Must be so much better for you but, even being the third wheel?"

"Yeah but it also means I will be stuck at their house for at least three years. Working part time won't give me enough money to live on my own." I frown. "Why am I even telling you this? We should be getting to know the good stuff. Your turn to talk mister. I want to know things about you."

"Like?"

"You said you have two jobs, what's the second?"

"If I tell you something will you promise not to freak out?"

"Dude nothing you say can be as gob smacking as my history."

"Promise?" He insists.

"Sure."

"I own Touchés and I have a bakery called Sweetest Stuff on Main Street that I run during the day."

I look at him a moment, blinking as that information absorbs. Touchés is the most successful club in our city and I have heard wonderful things about Sweetest Stuff from Penny and a few of the kids I am making friends with at Uni. "Well then." I stammer. "Um..." I don't know what to say. The guy is loaded and young and hot. Like totally out of my league. "Wait didn't you tell me that you work at your dad's distributing company?"

"Yeah I do."

"How can you have a bakery and do distribution?"

"We distribute bakery goods to other bakeries and supermarkets."

"Oh." I huff. "Well der. That makes sense."

"I work hard for what I have Tara." He says. "But don't let my success change what you think about me. I am still the fun loving guy behind the bar too."

"But you're always behind the bar when I come in, I thought owners like to observe or something?" I say rather dumbly, if I do say so myself.

"The first night I met you I had taken a shift for a sick worker. I have worked the early Friday night shift every week ever since hoping I would see you."

"You did that for me?" My mouth drops open.

"I love people, I love what I do. I do actually work the bar quite regularly but yes that early shift on a Friday night has been for just you."

"But..." I am speechless. "I... um..." I look at him watching me. His gaze is steady. The guy keeps pulling out all the stops that one day – like today – I will have to stop doubting and start believing. Its just one thing after another! How am I not meant to believe he actually likes me?

"It's okay Tara." He grabs my hand. "I like you okay. I want to really get to know you. Be your friend all of it. I have from the moment I met you."

"You really mean that don't you?" I ask looking into his eyes. "You keep saying it so you really must mean it."

He nods. "Yes."

We eat the rest of the meal in silence and as I stuff the last mouthful into my mouth a big yawn takes over me.

Jaydan laughs. "I am so used to being awake until the early hours of the morning that I forget not everyone is like me." He gestures to Jin who immediately comes to the table. "Check please Jin."

"Yes sir." He says and is gone.

"I'm sorry." I murmur stifling another yawn. "I really must be a big Grandma. What is the time anyways?"

"Just after 1.30am." Jaydan looks at his phone.

"Oh yeah." I shrug. "I'm a Grandma."

"I can take you home if you want me to."

I freeze. No I don't want you too but does that sound too keen? I don't know how to answer without sounding nutty.

"Or not works to?" He adds grinning at me, sometimes I hate the fact that he can read me. "If it's any consolation I'm not ready for the night to end either."

"You're not?" I gasp, genuinely surprised.

"Why do you find it so hard to believe that I like you Tara?" Jaydan asks again just as Jin arrives back with the check.

"Mr Jaydan never brought a lady friend here before Miss Tara." Jin adds boldly, obviously overhearing the conversation. These waiters must hear some interesting conversation.

"Really?" I gasp again, looking at Jaydan incredulously.

"Thanks for that Jin." Jaydan smiles at Jin, who gets the hint, backing off instantly. "Yes really." Jaydan adds when I raise an eyebrow of question. He immediately places money on the check tray with a very large tip. Well that's still a little intimidating... "I have for six months remember?"

"But..."

"I know." He says putting a hand on my lips. "I can have any girl. Why would I want you? Blah blah blah. Well face facts little lady. I don't want just any girl, I want you and only you. One day you will believe me." My mouth drops open as his eyes become intense and smouldery. He looks from my eyes to my lips and I desperately want him to kiss me again. I watch him watch me, both of us staring at the other, neither willing to make the first move.

"You have the most beautiful eyes." I breathe, when I can't take the staring competition anymore. "I could get lost in them forever."

"I was just thinking the same thing." Jaydan smiles. "See great minds think alike." He pats my hand and I poke my tongue out at him. "Such pretty green eyes and have you ever noticed the golden ring? I never really saw the colour well in the club, but wow! And FYI keep poking that tongue out at me and I may have to bite it off."

"Jaydan if you keep talking to me like that I think I may swoon." I murmur out loud. "Not the tongue thing, just everything else by the way. I don't have some kinky obsession with tongues."

"Well that's a shame." He goads me. "Could have been an interesting adventure."

My mouth drops open. I am speechless.

He chuckles and looks away, breaking the spell. "Come on pretty lady," He gets up and reaches for my hand. "I have the perfect spot we can hang out if you wanna?"

"Yes!" I say a little too enthusiastically wondering whether or not it's possible to fall in love with someone that you barely know. Wait. What? Love? Where the hell did that come from?

"We have to go for a drive but?" He adds.

"And?" I ask, not seeing the problem.

"Just checking your comfortable getting in a car with me."

"Of course!" I exclaim. "Unless you're a mad man behind the wheel." I goad, grinning at him. "In which case I would rather take the bus."

"Not when I have precious cargo little lady." He winks as we walk out of the restaurant.

"Aww Mr Baker." I smile at him shyly. "Making this girl swoon just a little more there."

"I aim to please." He winks at me again and opens the door. The cooler night air hits me with a smack and I shudder. "This time you are cold!" He exclaims hugging me sideways. I don't complain, just having him touch me is like a dream come true.

"I'm okay." I say wrapping my arm around him back. He snuggles in closer and I giggle to myself at how cute and open he is. A guy who is open with his affections is rare these days and I snagged me one who says he likes me warts and all!

Chapter 11

"Here we are." He says several moments later stopping in front of a Mercedes something. I don't know much about cars I just remember the badges – most of the time. But it's sleek and black with big rims – I know what they are because most pretty cars have them – on it and it looks mean. Like any little cars that tried to challenge it would be swallowed whole or something.

"Where we going?" I ask when he pulls out a set of keys and the door unlocks. I go to open the passenger side but he stops me.

"Uh uh." He says kissing my hand to take the sting away of stopping me. "A gentlemen never lets a lady open her own door."

"Jaydan!" I exclaim. "If you keep doing these things I'm going have to kidnap you and take you home with me!"

"Would you please?" He says deadpan. My mouth goldfishes for the millionth time tonight. He laughs. "Get in beautiful one, before I kiss you here now, against the car."

"Um..." Yes please! I don't know which I want more. My impulses decide for me. I yank him forward, grabbing onto his shirt and pulling him onto me without thinking about the consequences. I crush my mouth against his and kiss him with everything I have.

At first he is surprised and just stands there a lot like a stunned mullet before I slide my hands down his face and neck to his upper arms. He groans in response and then attacks me back with a ferociousness I have yet to see from him.

He pins me against the car and groans again. "Tara..." He murmurs and I think I murmur "Mm hmm" in there somewhere back. We kiss forever, hands all over each other before he suddenly breaks away from me taking a step back, almost tripping over the gutter in the process.

"This is not what I wanted." He says, trying to suck in air. "I wanted to treat you right. Do things right."

"You have been. You are." I puff through my own jagged breathing. "For six months you have been. Tonight you are." I add, when he starts to shake his head.

"Mauling you on the sidewalk at 2 in the morning is not treating you like a lady." He runs a frustrated hand through his hair, clearly frustrated with himself.

"Does it count that I like kissing you too?" I ask hopefully, trying to get him to smile. He looks very pissed off and I get scared that he is going to want to call it a night.

"A little." He does smile at me and I do a mental happy dance. "But you deserve better. I'm sorry Tara."

"Jaydan stop." I say walking up to him and cupping his head in my hands. I gently peck his lips. "Whatever your thinking just stop. Let's just go for a drive okay? We can forget this little moment happened if you like and still pretend it's like a first date where we haven't even kissed?"

He eyes me suspiciously, the wheels in his head turning. "Okay." He relents and I grin at him ear to ear.

"Good." I say clapping happily, not caring at all if I look stupid. I climb into the car as lady like as I can in my dress, which I smooth back down again. "Where we going anyways?" I ask as he shuts the door.

Jaydan walks around to the driver's side and hops in. "It's a surprise my excited little chicken." He laughs at my put on pout. I think every female in the universe learns to do this at a very young age. By the time we are teenagers we have perfected the art perfectly.

"I don't like surprises." I say, patting my eyelashes. I don't know where this side of me has come from but I like her. She's playful and fun and full of energy. I had forgotten I was tired until now and I'm still zappy. "Can't you tell me?"

"No."

"Why not?"

"Because it won't be a surprise then will it?"

"But..."

"No."

"But..."

"Tara!" Jaydan exclaims laughing. "Hush. It's only a ten minute drive and it will be worth it okay?"

I pout more.

"Aww baby." He laughs looking at me sideways as he pulls onto the street. "You're cute when you're cranky."

"I'm not cranky." I say laughing. "I'm pouting." I stick my lip out more. Batter my eyelashes even more.

"Clearly." He laughs. He knows I'm playing, I know I'm playing so I get over it real quick and we end up driving in silence for several minutes before he heads to the entrance of Moonlight Falls – the actual Moonlight Falls not our towns name.

A spectacular national park, with a giant lake in the middle of it. The waterfall at the head of the lake, which runs from Shadow River into it gets its name because at night, during a full moon, the water turns a magical aqua colour against the moonlight. It is a great tourist attraction for our and a regular source of income for a lot of businesses, Jaydan's included.

"We're going to Moonlight Falls?" I check to confirm, excited. It's been a long time since I have been here at night. Something about going on your own to a romantic make out spot kind of kills the mood of going.

"Sure are." He smiles at the excitement in my voice.

"Is it a full moon?" I ask excitedly, trying to look at where the moon is in the sky. I smack my head into the window and Jaydan tries hard not to laugh at me.

"No unfortunately." Jaydan answers when he can keep it together and I deflate a little, rubbing my head in the process. "But it's still pretty now anyway."

"Of course!" I agree happily into the seat as the tall eucalyptus trees tower over us, swaying gently in the wind. I would be happy anywhere Jaydan takes me. The guy is just down right awesome.

Jaydan pulls into the car park just near the falls and we both take a breath. He switches off the car and we just sit there, both watching, listening. Neither needing to speak because we seem to be able to slip into a comfortable silence so well.

"It's beautiful isn't it?" I ask several minutes later, quite cosy and relaxed.

"Yes." Jaydan whispers quietly as he grabs my hand.

I sneak a look at him, he is frowning. "Why do I get the feeling that there's something on your mind?" I ask nervously.

"Probably because there is." He replies, playing mindlessly with my fingers.

"What is it?" I ask.

"Part of me wants to tell you but part of me doesn't at the same time." He says and I panic. "I don't want you to run away and yet I feel I need to say it because it's something that's been on my mind a lot. More so tonight than ever."

"Um..." I say, really nervous now. "Okay?"

Jaydan turns to me and looks me dead in the eye. "Let's go for a walk"

"Oh my god Jaydan!" I laugh. "You can't leave me hanging like that!"

"I won't. I promise." He says excited all of a sudden. "But I want to do this right. I have to do this right or it's gonna be so humiliating!"

"What is?" I ask more confused than ever.

"Come on, hop out of the car for me." He gets out his own door and flies round to mine. He helps me out and walks over to a bench that I didn't notice was in front of the car. "Sit here for a sec and I will be back in a moment."

"Jaydan you're making me nervous..."

"It will make sense I promise." He smiles at me, planting a kiss on my cheek. "But I want to do it right. Don't turn around. Look straight ahead I will be right back."

"Okay now you're scaring me..." I say and my heart rate sky rockets. It is too good to be true! He's gonna kill me! Noooooooooooo!!!!

"Tara." He drops to one knee and I end up in a full blown panic.

Chapter 12

"Oh my god you're not going to propose are you?!" I squawk, shaking. Kill me instead! I'm too young to think about marriage! I love you but marriage is scary!

Wait. What?

I love him? Well this is new. Is it possible I can love him?

"Tara!" He exclaims, I shake out of my thoughts. Serial killer and marriage. Interesting combination. "No. Relax. It's way too early for that but can you trust me?"

"Can I trust you?" I look at him confused. This is a bit of a letdown I must say.

He holds my hands and looks me dead in the eye. There is enough moonlight shining through that I can see his face clearly and he is serious. "I know Joe and other guys haven't really shown you what it's like to give your trust to someone worthy but can you trust me enough to sit here for two minutes and hear what I have to say... please?"

He is shaking and I feel guilty. No killings? No marriage proposals? Okay I can do this. Just remember to breathe woman! "Okay." I nod.

"Good! He smiles at me happily, kisses my cheek again and disappears. I have to use all my will power not to turn around and sneak a peek. I don't want to ruin it and he is obviously going to a lot of effort for me so the least I can do is not peek. He is rustling around in the car or something and a big thump followed by a curse word has me silently giggling to myself. Now that was cute.

Music starts playing and I recognise the song immediately. What if? By Jason Derulo. I love Jason Derulo, I have all his albums. I love this song too and I smile just as Jason speaks the first line.

"What if?... What if I'm the one for you and you're the one for me?... What if?"

My heart accelerates for a different reason this time as Jaydan appears in front of me again with flowers in his hand. Where he managed to pluck them from I have no idea but I gasp as he hands them to me.

"If you are the one, then us meeting here is fate"

"Oh my god Jaydan!" I gasp as Jason starts singing. Jaydan has chosen the perfect song and I think I want to cry. "What are you doing?" Blurts out for no apparent reason.

"Tara I have known you six months." He says, his voice cracking a little. I can feel he's as nervous as I am.

"Future with a dog named Ben, buy a house with a fireplace"

I nod, speechless. This song is just perfect. Jaydan is just perfect.

"This is the first I've seen your face, but there's a chance we are soul mates"

He pauses a bit longer and I realize why immediately. The lyrics fit in perfectly.

"I know that this might sound crazy, cuz you don't know my name"

"But since the first time I saw you I knew I wanted you to be mine. You're beautiful, smart, a lady and most of all you're you."

I only nod again. I must be dreaming. He's a dream. This is a dream. What's happening? No one wake me up!

"But we can't, we can't tell, the future no... but that's just, the beauty of, the world we know"

"He's right. No, we don't know the future but I waited six months for you to want me back and in that time I got to know you. I think I fell for you a little more each and every time I saw you each and every Friday night. I don't want us to go back to living like we did where I'm the bar guy and you're the customer. I don't want to go back to when I only see you once a week and you pretend to be my girlfriend to get silly little girls off my back."

"So Imma say Do do do Doo, Do do Doo baby, Baby what if?"

"So Tara..."

"What if?"

"What I am wanting to say is..."

"What if?"

"That I uh..."

"What if?"

"What if we gave it a shot? You know, like you and me? Like being together? Seeing where it goes? Boyfriend and girlfriend and all that comes with it"?"

"What if?"

"Of course we can take it as slow as you want because I want you to feel completely comfortable with everything we do..."

"Picture me on one knee, with the perfect diamond ring. We just met, but if you say "Yes""

"OH geez I'm not doing this well at all." He panics and I want to save him but before I can he blurts out, "I think I am in love with you Tara Sundown."

"We'd have our wedding on the beach"

"Oh my god Jaydan!" I cry leaping into his arms. The nervousness of his expression and the sincerity in his eyes along with the music has me in tears. "Oh my god! Absolutely yes I will be your girlfriend!"

I shower him with hundreds of kisses, knocking us both over into the dirt. We roll and laugh as we tumble a couple of metres from the car landing in a heap near the base of a tree. He lands half on me half off and he just laugh. The music is a little fainter but we still hear it. The chorus is playing softly and I look right into his eyes. He is watching me watch him. "We can do this right?" I whisper.

"Listen," He says instead of answering.

"Don't know what tomorrow brings, but I'm still hoping... That you are the one for me... Oh and what if I had you and what if you had me and baby, what's the reason we can't fall in love?... What if?"

We lay there listening, both of us mesmerised. I am feeling every emotion possible right now and I realise something. There is no longer any doubt in my mind.

"But we can't, we can't tell the future no. But that's just the beauty of the world we know. Imma say Do do do doo, do do doo baby, what if? We all can say Do do do doo, do do doo baby, what if?"

As the song ends I look at Jaydan laying on top of me and smile up at him. My future suddenly looking a lot less lonely and a lot brighter. My gut instinct telling me that with him by my side nothing else matters. Not crazy family members, not crazy exes, not feeling lonely and definitely not thinking I'm not good enough because, tonight, Jaydan showed me I am. I am good enough to be loved right. I am good enough to be loved by him and I am good enough to love him back.

I. Am. Good. Enough.

I am good enough for this strong sexy man on top of me. I am good enough to be enough for him. There are no what if's. It's what will be. "I love you to sweetheart." I whisper to him as he lowers his head to kiss me. The look of pure joy as his eyes light up have me knowing I made the right decision. "Thank you for bringing me back to life."

He smiles at me as he moves a stray piece of hair. "You are the one for me." He says as our lips finally touch. "The only one."

"But we can't, we can't tell the future no. But that's just the beauty of the world we know. Imma say Do do do doo, do do doo baby, what if? We all can say Do do do doo, do do doo baby, what if?"

Epilogue – The following morning.

"So you're the famous Miss Tara?" Marcy Baker smiles at me through her front door. Jaydan and I just arrived after we spent the rest of the night staring up at the stars and being with each other. Dawn was breaking and before I even had a chance to say a thing he convinced me his bed is way more comfortable than mine and that I should test it out.

Of course one of the ways he convinced me was to kiss me every time I tried to protest and in the end I realised that I wasn't ready to give him up either. So here we are. At his parents' house at Seven AM.

Seven AM on a Saturday morning.

Apparently Jaydan has a ritual with his parents that every Saturday morning he shows up after work and they have breakfast together before he crashes in his room that they still keep for him. He says it's his parent's way of making sure he's well and to catch up with him.

Of course I saw straight through his little comments knowing that it's because he doesn't want to let me out of his site yet. It's not about sex either, that much I know. He knows that it will take me time to want to do it and he is willing to go at my pace. As long as I kiss him always like last night – apparently.

"I guess so?" I shrug stoping in the doorway, not sure what she means.

"Jaydan has told us so much about you my dear girl." She says understanding. She gives me a big hug and I almost burst into tears there and then for a second time in twelve hours.

"Way to go Mum." Jaydan laughs as he steps behind me, slinging a protective arm over my shoulders. He discreetly pulls me back, clearly picking up on my distress. "Straight into it as always."

"Of course dear." She smiles at her son coyly. "No point in beating around the bush."

"It's all good stuff of course." Jaydan Senior adds puffing up. He takes one look at my face and panics. "What's wrong dear?"

"Oh nothing. I'm sorry." I sniff, pulling away from Jaydan to hide my face. I quickly wipe at my tears with the back of my hand. "It's just been a long night and I'm not good at introductions at the best of times."

"Jaydan, have you kept this poor girl up all night?" Marcy scolds, smacking him across the back of the head. Jaydan flinches.

"Mrs Baker it's okay." I smile at her. "It was a wonderful night. Best night of my life actually." I add smiling up at my 'boyfriend'. It will take a while to get used to that.

"Oh no dear please call me Marcy." Marcy looks horrified.

"Okay Marcy..." I smile gratefully at her as she hands me some tissues. "Thank you." I dab at my eyes.

"Mum, Dad she's not used to being fussed over so can we just back up a little." Jaydan puts an arm around me again and I smile at him through watery eyes.

"What do you mean dear?" Marcy looks confused.

"My parents aren't going to win any parenting awards anytime soon." I supply when Jaydan looks horrified at the fact he put his foot in his mouth.

"Oh dear I'm sorry." Marcy says, scooping me out from under Jaydan's warmth and hugging me tight again. I'm starting to feel like a yoyo. "We do the best we can, old bug-a-lugs here and I." She gestures behind her to Jaydan senior who is frowning at his wife's head. Clearly bug-a-lugs doesn't like his name. "I want you to feel welcome. Your party of the family now. Would you like a shower? I'm sure I can find some clothes that will fit you in the guest closet."

"Oh no that's okay." I smile gently while panicking silently on the inside. This woman is offering her home up to me and I have no idea how to cope with that. "Jaydan said he would take me home in a little while. I can wait till then. But thank you."

"Are you sure dear?" Jaydan Senior asks stepping forward. He looks concerned for me and that has a fresh batch of new tears threatening to erupt. This time I manage to keep them in check... barely.

"Yes sir." I say politely willing them away.

"Oh dear no." He looks horrified. "Please call me Jay."

"Okay..." I smile. "Jay."

"Will you two quit fussing over her please?" Jaydan says stealing me back from his mother. "I don't want her to run away already because you two are smothering her."

"Sorry dear." Marcy appeases her son. "Let's go to the kitchen. Breakfast is ready and waiting." She herds us all into the hallway and I follow Jaydan down an elegant hall into a modern kitchen the size of Penny and Tom's entire bottom floor.

Marcy gestures at me to sit and I do immediately. Father and son taking their seats to the right of me and Marcy at the head. The table is laid with bacon, eggs, cereals and several other things that smell wonderful. "My boys like to eat dear." She says catching me eyeing all the food. "It will all disappear."

"There's so much." I can't help but say.

"You don't know Hugo and Jaydan." Jay Senior smiles.

"Jaydan says you're in Uni?" Marcy remarks as she starts to pour coffee.

"Yes. I am studying a bachelor of behavioural sciences."

"Oh wow!" Jay exclaims. "I like this girl, she might be a good influence on you!"

"I told you dad," Jaydan says with a forced smile. "I don't want to go to Uni. I have my club and bakery."

"Always good to have something to fall back on if they ever fail. I won't be around forever and the distribution company will need someone to run it."

"It won't be me Dad." Jaydan says firmly. "I thought that was a you and Hugo thing?"

It suddenly makes sense why Jaydan is so distant about his family. Jaydan's talk of his father being a hard ass. His father has set views about what his sons should be doing and clearly Jaydan isn't following them. But it is out of love for his child. Unlike my parents who preferred it if I stayed invisible.

"It can be a Hugo, you and me thing." Jay says hopefully.

"I only just started." I add, trying to save Jaydan. "I am only two months in."

"Sounds wonderful dear." Marcy smiles at me with a wink.

I smile back as my phone rings. "Sorry I just gotta check it's not important. No one usually rings me at this hour." I say yanking it out of my purse. Oh Shit.

"Penny!" I gasp. "Oh I forgot to text her! She's gonna be worried because I didn't come home last night." I look up at Jaydan's parents with desperation. "Sorry I need to take it, I will be only a moment."

"Take all the time you need honey." Marcy says. "You can go in the lounge room." She gestures towards a door and I bolt for it with a grateful look in her direction.

"Thanks." I throw over my shoulder just as I press answer. "Penny."

"Where the hell are you?"

"I am sorry I didn't call or text."

"Damn right you are! Are you alright? Where are you?"

"Yes. I am with Jaydan... At his parents' house."

Penny's scream is that loud I have to move the phone away from my ear. "I knew it!" She squeals and I hear Tom in the back ground grumbling something about crazy women and the fact it's 7 am in the morning – on a Saturday. "Details! I want details!"

"Not now." I hush into the phone. "I will be home soon."

"Oh I'm so excited. I can't wait 'til you get home! You have to tell me everything!"

"I will."

"You better."

"I promise. Now I have to go we are having breakfast."

"Breakfast with the parents! Oh my god it must be serious!"

"Bye Penny!" I laugh at her enthusiasm. I know how much she has wanted this for me. She was the only one who had any inkling that I had a crush on Jaydan. She knew before I knew but I was in denial for a long time.

"Bye!"

I laugh at my phone as I put it back in my bag. Walking back towards the kitchen I collide into a hard male body. This one doesn't make me tingle like the other but he's awesome just the same. "Hugo!" I cry stepping back straight away. The guy is big, bigger then Jaydan but I put that down to their age differences.

"Little lady." He bows. "Welcome to our humble abode. I see you made it alright?" He looks tired. Like he's been up all night too.

"Ah thanks?" I say not sure how I am meant to respond to that. "You alright?"

"It's been a long night." Hugo smiles and I feel there is more to it than that. "Where's Jaydan?"

"In the dining room having breakfast."

"You coming to join us?"

"I was, I just got a phone call." I reply. He nods, extending his arm. We walk arm in arm back to the dining room where parents and other son stare at us.

"Tara!" Jaydan laughs after a hug awkward pause. What on earth is that about? "You take a phone call and come back with a brute."

"Hey!" Hugo laughs.

"A loveable one." I add, defending him.

"I'm gonna like having you around Little Lady." Hugo smiles at me as I sit back down near Jaydan and he takes the empty seat next to his Mum.

"Why?" Jaydan demands, eyes narrowed. I wonder what that is about too. the brothers share a look and I feel like I'm missing something huge.

"Because she's on my side." Hugo finally says, trying to lighten the mood.

I laugh at him. "Not gonna always happen though." I put out there.

"Probably not when you got bug-a-lugs junior there." Hugo gestures at Jaydan who frowns.

"That stupid nickname. Mum why?"

"I could say the same thing son." Jay pipes up around a mouth full of coffee.

"Aww bug-a-lugs don't be like that." Hugo grins at his brother.

"Quit calling me that you big ter..."

"Jaydan!" Marcy stops her son mid word. "No language at the table thank you."

"Sorry Mum." He says immediately, bowing his head.

"Hugo how you been?" Jay Senior asks completely changing the subject.

"Good." Hugo says carefully. "Actually great."

"Yeah?" Jay says. "What's so great about it?"

Hugo takes a deep breath. He seems to be struggling with something. Eventually he stands up, takes another deep breath before stating, "Everyone I have a big announcement to make."

"What's is it?" Marcy asks mid fork full of bacon and eggs when Hugo waits and says nothing for several moments. "Hugo tell us!" She adds.

"I'm getting married."

The room goes deadly silent.

Then Jaydan lets out a curse word.

Jay just stares.

Marcy drops her fork and its clatter is the only noise I hear.

And meanwhile I'm wondering what the big deal is?

***

Over The Weekend

**Book Two in the Saga of Moonlight Falls**

Anna-Beth Pearson has a huge dilemma. A one week stand eight months ago resulted her in becoming a whale... and carrying two calves on board. Desperate and out of options she goes to see the babies' father who, at first, doesn't believe her but when she gives him the proof he needs he will help her. But she has to marry him first.

Hugo Baker is getting married. He can't believe it and neither can his family. Apparently the famous ladies' man has a few people to convince... there's just one big problem... The bride is in that list.

Like hell I will!

I'm only eighteen. There is no way I'm marrying anyone. I shouldn't have to worry about stuff like this... why did it have to be me? And twins! I couldn't get knocked up with just one it had to be two! And why with the famous ladies' man Hugo Baker?

Gee I have made a mess. But it's not just me I have to think about anymore. My babies' lives are at stake.

I need help, I know I do. I can't afford these babies on my own and even though he's a hussy, the one week I spent with Hugo I saw a side of him I think few ever do. He's a good man – usually. Wanting to do a dumb thing like marry someone he barely knows for some odd reason I cannot understand and then he will help me.

I won't marry him.

We can make it work without the marriage... No amount of puppy dog eyes or good reasons will get me to change my mind...

Right?

I just have to remind myself I am an eighteen year old woman and he can't love just one...

Right?

Hugo will come round and see that we can do this...

Right?

Coming May 2014
