 
Keeping Their Love

The Griffin Brothers Valentine's novella

by Crystal Perkins
Copyright © 2015 by Crystal Perkins

Cover Design by Helen Williams

<http://www.allbookedout.com/>

Ebook formatting by Jesse Gordon

All trademarks are owned by their respective companies and are denoted by the use of proper capitalization of the company and/or brand. All rights reserved. Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above, no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form, or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise) without the prior written permission of both the copyright owner and the above publisher of this book. This contemporary erotic romance is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, brands, media, and incidents are either the product of the author's imagination or are used fictitiously. The author acknowledges the trademarked status and trademark owners of various products referenced in this work of fiction, which have been used without permission. The publication/use of these trademarks is not authorized, associated with, or sponsored by the trademark owners. This ebook is licensed for your personal use only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each person you share it with, especially if you enjoy sexy, emotional, romance novels with alpha males. If you are reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then you should return it and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the author's work.
TABLE OF CONTENTS

About Keeping Their Love

Other Books by Crystal Perkins

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Chapter 9

Chapter 10

Chapter 11

About the Author

# About Keeping Their Love

Alexandra Marie Roberts  
&  
Miles Andrew Corrigan  
Invite you celebrate their love  
on February 14 at 8:00 PM

Scott, Ryan, Owen, and Luke Griffin had getaways planned for their wives, whisking them away for romantic and sexy weekends that they all really need. Instead, they'll be attending their niece's wedding—with only seven days' notice. While they're all happy for her, none of them has a back-up plan. No other gifts, and no idea how to make the romance happen while attending a wedding at a theme park. They've gamed, built, created, and learned for love. Now they just need to figure out how to keep it.

This novella includes characters from both The Griffin Brothers and Corrigan & Co. series.

#  Other Books by Crystal Perkins

The Griffin Brothers series

_Gaming For Love_ (The Griffin Brothers #1)

_Building Our Love_ (The Griffin Brothers #2)

_Creating A Love_ (The Griffin Brothers #3)

_Learning To Love_ (The Griffin Brothers #4)

_Designing The Love_ (The Griffin Brothers #5)

_Working On Love_ (The Griffin Brothers #6)

Corrigan & Co. series

_Fielding Her SECRET_ (Corrigan & Co. #1)
This book is for Terri-Lynn Jeavons, who asked  
me to write a Valentine's novella for the Griffins!

# Chapter 1

Miles

I'm nervous as fuck. Alex and I kept this secret for the last two months. Not from everyone—she needed help from Stella and Quinn, so they knew, but we wanted to keep everyone else in the dark until we knew we could have everything ready. Now we've gathered everyone here, at her grandparent's house, to tell them the good news. I can only hope they're all too happy to be angry.

"Thanks for getting together tonight, everyone. We really appreciate it," Alex says as she stands.

"Of course we're here. Anything for you, Baby Girl," her Uncle Scott tells her.

I stand next to Alex. We _are_ in this together, after all. She smiles at me, and nods. I turn to look at her family, and mine. "Two months ago, I asked Alex to marry me. She said yes, and we've been working since then to set everything in motion. We're getting married at Disneyland next week. On Valentine's Day."

There's a stunned silence following my announcement. Shit. We weren't expecting this. Some anger for keeping this from everyone, followed by happiness for us? Sure, we braced for that. But silence? No plan for that. Neither one of us have a quiet family.

"This is a little sudden, isn't it?" Maggie Griffin finally asks, breaking the silence.

"We've been in love for almost seven years, Grandma. How is that sudden?"

"I just meant that you haven't been officially together long, maybe you should wait."

"We're not waiting. If you don't want to be there, then don't. You've always fought our relationship, and I'm tired of it."

"Xandy," I say, turning to calm her down.

"No, Miles. She's right. I _do_ love you and I know how happy you make my granddaughter, but I have been cautious. You've given me no reason to doubt you, and I am very sorry that I've held back. I would be delighted to be at your wedding."

She walks over and hugs me tight. I hold her back just as hard. I know that my girl wouldn't be who she is without this strong woman. The Griffins are the best family I know, and next to my own Gram, Maggie Griffin is the best role model a woman could have. I owe her so much. I owe them all so much.

"You couldn't have told us all a little sooner?" Scott asks. When I look over at him, he looks a little panicked. I have no idea why.

* * *

Scott

Shit. Fuck. Fuck. Shit. This cannot be happening. It just can't. I've been planning Valentine's Day for me and Yas for months now. My mom agreed to watch Dave while I take my wife for a romantic weekend to Paris. It's where I asked her to marry me, and with as tough as things have been for her lately, I want to pamper and spoil her. She's too independent and stubborn to let me bail out her bookstore again, but I know she'll let her guard down in Paris. If we were going there, which apparently we now aren't.

So what am I going to do? I have a week, a _fucking_ week, to come up with a new plan. Because Paris was it. All of it. I was going to let her pick out her own piece of jewelry, or whatever, before we had dinner in the Musee d'Orsay and a romantic boat ride down the Seine. I can't just go out and buy her something. This is my wife. The mother of my child, and the woman I love more than life itself. Not someone I've just started dating. A store bought gift just isn't enough.

"We wanted to have everything in place so that none of you would feel obligated to help," Alex answers, breaking me out of my thoughts.

"I appreciate that, sweetheart, I really do. I'm happy for both of you, but this is more than a little bit of a shock," Ryan tells her. I know he must be freaking out too because he also had some big plans for Valentine's Day.

* * *

Ryan

Damn it all to hell because that's where I am right now. Deep down in Hell. Right along with my brothers. Why did Alex and Miles think it was okay to get married on Valentine's Day, especially with no warning? She's young, but he should know better. Scratch that, he has no sense when it comes to my niece. He loves her too much. Which is usually a good thing. Not this time, though.

Chloe fell in love with Seattle when we went there a few years ago. We even got married there in the first building we designed together. And even though she loves Vegas and her friends, I know she'd love to live in that city at least part of the year. So I built us a house. It's smaller than our house here, but perfect for us and Erin to spend our summers in. It's on the water, and I gave her the same dressing room and closet that she has in our house here. I didn't decorate it yet, because that's all her. But the structure's done.

Our friend, Kevin, who helped Chloe when she first came to work for me, agreed to watch Erin since I knew my mom was already watching Dave. I can only imagine what a fashionable little diva I'd be coming back to after leaving her with him for the weekend, but it would be worth it. For both of us. And let's be honest, I'm so tightly wrapped around my little girl's finger that there's no way to unwind me. She can have whatever she wants, when she wants it. For now, at least. She'll need to get a job like I had to, but not yet.

Just like my little girl, I'll do anything for my wife. She's truly my soul mate and the love of my life. And now I have nothing to give her on Valentine's Day. Sure, I'll still give her the house, but if I can't give it to her that day, what the hell am I going to give her? Like I said, I'm in Hell.

"We know it's sudden, but it'll be great. We can all go to Disney again. The kids will have so much fun."

"Yeah, Al. It'll be great," Owen tells her with a fake smile on his face. He's way more screwed than I am, and I know it.

* * *

Owen

Holy fucking shit! This cannot be happening. It just can't. I can't bring the sexy back with Candi at freaking Disneyland. And certainly not with Hope joining us. I'd arranged for our friend—and her honorary second grandmother, Cyndi Evans, to watch her. But we can't leave her behind if we're going to Disneyland. What kind of parents would we be if we did that?

The terrible twos are behind us, but the stubborn threes have descended, making Candi want to pull her hair out. Hope is just like us, and while we should have expected it, neither one of us were prepared to have a strong-willed mini us. Don't get me wrong, my little girl is amazing, smart, and beautiful—just not perfect. Which is just the way she should be. But it's hard to keep up the romance when she's demanding our attention at all hours of the day and night.

And we need that romance. We've managed a quickie here and there, but I haven't been able to worship Candi's beautiful body in months. If that's not a crime against humanity, I don't know what is. I'd planned a romantic getaway to a private island for us. One where we'd only pack enough clothes for the plane ride. And maybe an itty bitty bikini for my wife. One that I could tear off of her whenever I wanted. But I should know that the best laid plans don't always work out. Even when you really, really, _really,_ need them to.

"Yeah. We're all really happy for you," Luke tells her. His smile's just as fake as mine, though, because he may be the one who needed that week the most of all.

* * *

Luke

It's over. My fucking marriage is going to be over while my niece's begins, and there's not a damn thing I can do about it. Olivia's been getting more distant and moody every day. She barely lets me kiss her, and there's definitely been no sex for the past month. I don't know what I did or how I hurt her—I pretty much worship the ground she walks on. But I did something, and now I have no way to fix it.

She hasn't said she's going to divorce me, but she refuses to tell me what's wrong and won't stop crying. I'd do anything to stop that crying. Anything. Even the yelling's better.

I was planning to take her to Chicago for Valentine's Day. We've never been to my hometown together, so I thought it would be the perfect place to romance her and undo whatever it is I did. Now that can't happen. We're going to the happiest place on earth with my entire family and our friends. Which means no romance and maybe even no marriage.

I'm going to have to come up with something. Some last ditch idea. But with only a week, where I still have to teach every day, I don't know what I'm going to do. Curling up in the corner and crying probably isn't the best idea, but it's all I really want to do at the moment.

"I'm glad you're all good with this. Disneyland is way better than Vegas for Valentine's Day. We're all going to have so much fun," Alex says as Miles leans over to kiss her.

Disneyland _is_ better than Vegas. But it's not better than Paris, Seattle, Chicago, or a tropical island. At least not for me and my brothers. We all share uneasy glances with each other as our women hug Alex, peppering her with questions about her dress and everything else. I catch Miles looking at us curiously, and I know he'll be asking us about why we look so freaked out. I for one, will be more than happy to unload on him. Possibly with a fist. I know Alex has him whipped, but he has to know a week isn't enough notice when you're dealing with the most romantic holiday of the year. Little bastard.

# Chapter 2

Miles

The Griffin Brothers look upset, and I don't think it's because of the wedding. At least not the wedding itself. It takes me a few minutes of trying to interpret the looks between them, and the death glare Luke's throwing at me, before I get it. Valentine's Day. Holy fuck. They had plans. Of course they had plans, it's only a week from now. And now they're screwed.

I make my way over to them, plastering a smile on my face. "Hi guys. Thanks for the support. Can I talk to you about something? Maybe in the guest house?"

Ryan catches on immediately. "Sure, man. Let's go."

We all smile and act like nothing's wrong as we make our way out of the room. Gary raises an eyebrow at me, and I nod, inviting him along with us. I may need him to protect me. I could probably hold my own with Scott or Owen, but not Ryan or Luke. And definitely not the four of them combined.

Once we're settled, I address them all. "We fucked up your Valentine's Day plans, didn't we?"

"That's the understatement of the century," Scott tells me. "We all need some time with our women. None of us were planning on staying here in Vegas."

"Shit. Alex wanted that day, and honestly, I didn't even think about it. I know she didn't do it to ruin anything. I should've realized, though."

"Yeah you should have, you little bastard," Luke tells me.

"Little? I'm older than you, dude."

"But I could take you. Easily."

Yeah. He could. He still plays in a local hockey league that keeps him built. Not the tank Ryan is, but he's still a formidable opponent. One I'd already determined that I couldn't go toe to toe with.

"Noted. Now, how can I help?"

"You can change your wedding date," Owen tells me.

"That, I cannot do. It's not like we just woke up and picked the location. We had to plan, and I actually had to buy out the park for the evening. As you can imagine, it's a popular day for weddings there. Alex wanted a daytime wedding, but even I couldn't swing it, so we settled for evening with the ceremony at the Castle and then a dinner next to Small World."

The afternoon wedding wasn't all I haven't been able to swing, but I'm not giving up on the other thing yet. No matter how stressed out and frustrated I am about it. I have to make it happen. I can't fail at this. Not again.

"I'm really sorry, guys. I'd tell you to go ahead with your plans, but we all know Alex will fall apart if you're not there."

"We'll be there," Scott says. "We may be sleeping alone that night, but we'll be there for Alex."

* * *

Scott

I can't stay mad at Miles. If Yas had asked me, I'd have done the same thing. I would've thought of her and nothing or no one else. It's what you do when you're owned. And every man in this room is owned by his woman. And not a one of us would ever deny it. It doesn't help us at the moment, but it's the way it is.

"It's not that bad, Son. You'll all just have to adjust your plans. You still have presents, right?" my dad asks.

We all look at each other, and I know their answer would be the same as mine. "No, Dad. I don't think any of us had a back-up plan. I was planning on letting Yas pick her own stuff in Paris. And Ryan can't move a house."

"Shit," Miles says. "I really am sorry. And I wish I could help, but I'm dealing with my own present issue at the moment."

"You focus on Alex. We'll take care of our wives."

Somehow. I don't know what we're going to do. If it was Florida, I could still give Yas a piece of Paris at Epcot, but it's not. I need to come up with something, but I have no idea what. I'm sure people have romance at Disneyland, but I just can't see it with all those kids and families around.

"There's gotta be a book or website about romance there, right? I mean, we can't be the only guys who plan to romance our women there for Valentine's Day." I throw that out there, hoping one of my brothers may have come up with something already.

"You're the genius, who also works closely with a secret society of women. Why are you asking us? We should be asking you," Owen reminds me.

"Well, I wouldn't do that if I were you, because I've got a shit ton of nothing. Abso-fucking-lutely nothing."

"We're screwed. So very, very screwed. If genius boy doesn't have a clue, how are the rest of us supposed to?" Luke asks.

"I may be smart, but you're the romance expert. Why aren't you coming up with something?"

* * *

Luke

Scott's right. While all my brothers can bring on the romance when needed, I'm seen as the expert. I love doing sweet—and sexy—things for Ollie, so I'm constantly thinking of new ways to surprise and delight her. But lately, nothing's been working. Stuffed animals, flowers, dinner, bubble baths and candles, it's just not doing it. And like I said, neither are we.

"Yeah, well, maybe at one time. Now she just cries or yells all the time. And nothing I do seems to make it better."

"What the fuck did you do to her?" Ryan asks me.

"If I knew that, I'd have been working to fix it long before now. But I have no clue. None. Nada. Zilch. Zero. I've wracked my brain and there's nothing. She just despises me all of a sudden."

I'm not sure despise is even a strong enough word. I tried to kiss her yesterday, and she jumped back so fast that I nearly fell over. She said she wasn't in the mood, but it wasn't like I was trying to maul her. I _wanted_ to maul her, don't get me wrong, but I wasn't trying. I was just looking to kiss my wife.

"I've tried to ask her, too, but she won't tell me. Or Candi. She just spends most of the day sniffling. It's making us a little freaked out, too, so I can only imagine what it'd be like to be married to her, and have that happen," Owen tells me.

"I honestly prefer when she's yelling at me to when she's crying. The yelling doesn't tear my heart apart."

"Hang in there, Luke. All couples go through rough times. Your mom and I have only gotten stronger for what we've been through."

"But what if she doesn't want to be stronger, Dad? What if she wants to leave me?"

"Then you let her go."

"No. That's the one thing I can't do. Not again."

I mean it. No matter what happens, I won't let Olivia leave again. The first time, I sent her away. No matter what, I'll never do that again. We belong together forever. I just have to find out what's wrong, and fix it. She's all there is for me, and if she doesn't already know it, I'll prove it to her. Somehow.

* * *

Ryan

I feel sorry for Luke. I really do. Chloe and I are in a great place, so all I have to worry about is a present. That's a pretty big worry, but my marriage isn't going to be over if my wife doesn't like it. I may have to sleep on the couch for one night, but that's it.

I really don't think Luke's marriage will be over, either. You can't be in the same room with him and Olivia without feeling their love, but she has been acting weird. We've all noticed it. Chloe says she won't tell any of the girls, so they're as lost and concerned as we are.

"Okay. I'm going to take point on this. I only need a gift. The rest of you need something else. I'll track down everything I can find about romance and special places at Disneyland," I tell them.

"No. I mean, thanks Ry. But we need to all do our own thing. You can look up romance all you want, but we have to live it. We have to fucking live and breathe romance for our women. A week is definitely not enough time for what I need to accomplish, but I need to figure that out on my own. I won't turn down help, but I have to be the one who makes the plans," Owen says.

"He's right. Only I know what Ollie needs. Or at least I used to. I'll come up with something. I have to."

"Well, I'm here if you guys need me," I tell them.

"So am I," my dad says.

It's time for me to go back to the drawing board. Maybe literally.

* * *

Owen

I appreciated Ryan offering to shoulder most of the burden and do some research for us, but I know I need to do this on my own. Romance isn't exactly what I'm looking for, either. I romance Candi every day. She just can't completely show me how much she appreciates it.

Take last night for example. I'd seen a vintage camera in an antique shop, so I bought it and waited for Hope to fall asleep before giving it to her. She loved it and was showing me her appreciation when, all of a sudden, our bedroom door was banging open. There was our girl, hands on her hips, telling us we were supposed to be asleep. Mood Killer 101 is the class that kid should be teaching. Or Cock Blocking 400 level.

So yeah. We _really_ need to get away. Just the two of us. Someplace that has a kitchen and a bed. Or hell, even just a kitchen. I'd make do. I need my wife and she's told me she needs me too. Disneyland is not what we planned, but I'll be damned if I'm not going to find some way to make this work. I have to, before we spontaneously combust from all the sexual frustration we're bottling up.

"What's the exact timeline for next weekend, Miles?" I ask, hoping that having more info will give me a better chance to figure something out.

"Alex wants us all to get there on Friday. Like I said, I couldn't get us an afternoon wedding, so you guys would have most of the day free. I'm not sure how much primping the ladies want to do, but the wedding isn't until eight, and the reception is after."

"They'll want to primp, but that should still give us all some time," Ryan says.

_Some_ time, yeah. But will it be enough? I hope so, for all our sakes.

# Chapter 3

Miles

"I'm sorry Mr. Corrigan, but as I've been telling you every day, there is nothing I can do. You cannot have the room in the park. It was given away months ago. Calling me twice a day is not going to change that," the woman on the other end of the line tells me.

"But it's my wedding night. Surely you can move that other couple. Or I can. If you'd just give me their contact info, I'd ask them myself. Hell, I'd pay for all their expenses for the weekend."

"We're already paying all their expenses."

"Really? So, you're flying them in on a private jet, putting them up for the rest of the nights in the best suite at the hotel, and giving them unlimited spending money?"

"You would do that?"

"Yes. I would."

"What if they spent a million dollars?"

"I've already offered you more than that for the room, so obviously money is of no concern to me"

"I still can't give you their contact info."

"Can you give them mine? Please?"

"I'll give it to them, but I'm not sure they'll contact you."

"Thanks," I tell her as I hang up. I'm not feeling thankful, but there's nothing else I can really say.

I'm leaning back in the chair with my hands over my eyes, sending up silent prayers that the couple will contact me, when I hear my door open. "Not right now. I need a few more minutes before you start bombarding me with my meeting notes."

"I was going to bombard you with something else, King."

I open my eyes to watch my girl lock the door and turn back to me. She's in a dress that has a halter top and a loose skirt. Damn, she's sexy as fuck. And I'm a very lucky man.

"Oh yeah? Whatcha got for me, Xandy?"

"A little stress relief," she tells me, coming over and climbing on my lap. "You've been so upset lately. I want to make you happy to marry me again."

What? "You think I'm not happy to marry you?"

"You've been kind of distant the last few days," she reminds me with a shrug.

My phone rings before I can answer her. I don't recognize the number, so I'm hoping it's the other couple. "I've got to take this, but we'll talk later, okay?"

"You're kicking me out?" she asks with wide eyes, as I answer and ask the caller to hold. I mute the phone before I answer.

"Yeah. I really need to take this call."

"I've sat in on business calls before."

"Not this time. Sorry. But later?"

"I think I'm busy later."

"Xandy, don't."

"Don't what? Don't marry you? Because that's on the table right now."

"Take it off the table, please. There's nothing I want more than to be your husband. I promise. I wouldn't have asked you if I didn't want to marry you. I'm just trying to work something out right now."

"You're sure?"

"Absolutely, positively sure. I love you."

"I love you, too. I'll see you later."

We kiss and then I wait until she's out the door before picking up the call. "Hi. Sorry for the wait, I was finishing up a meeting."

"No problem, Mr. Corrigan."

"Please call me Miles. Did you hear my offer?"

"Yes, I did. While it's great, I'm afraid we just can't take you up on it."

"I'll do anything. Name a price."

"I'm sorry, but no."

"I'll beg."

"I totally get where you're coming from, but I just can't do it. Thank you for your offer. Goodbye."

I want to throw my cell phone across the room, but instead I just bang my head on my desk a few times. Dammit! I needed that room. It's the perfect place for our wedding night. Nothing else will do. But I guess someplace will have to.

I wish we could change the date. It would make it easier for me, and the Griffins. I sit up as I think about it more. Maybe I _can_ convince Alex. We don't care about the lost money. She'll want to do what's best for all of us. I know she will.

There's a spring in my step as I walk into the foundation offices later that day. Alex and I smile at each other as she finishes the call she's on. When she's done, I lean over her desk and kiss her hard.

"Wow," she says when we break apart. "What was that for?"

"I had the best idea for the wedding," I tell her.

"Really? What is it?"

"We should change the date."

"Excuse me?"

"Your uncles all had trips planned, and I can't get something I wanted for you this weekend. So we should push things back. It's no big deal. We're practically married, anyway."

I'm not expecting her hand to reach out and slap me, but honestly, I should've been. I realize my mistake a second too late. I reach for her, but she steps back. Tears are streaming down her face as she throws her engagement ring at me.

"How about we have no wedding, huh Miles? Since we're practically married anyway and all."

"Shit, Xandy. I didn't mean it like that."

"How exactly did you mean it?"

"Just that we should've thought more about everyone else when we decided on the date. Your uncles are really screwed right now because they have no backup plans for their wives. And I meant what I said about not being able to get you what I wanted."

"You're all I want, Miles. Maybe we should've picked a different date, but I've wanted to be your Valentine for a very long time. When I was in school, and they had those balloon fundraisers, I always wished for one from you. I wanted a heart full of candy and this cute little necklace I saw at a store once. It was a heart with little pink and red fake jewels that said 'be mine.' It wasn't expensive or fancy, at all. But I thought it would be something I'd want from the man I loved. From you."

"I'm always going to be your Valentine, Xandy. And I always was. I've never been with anyone else on Valentine's Day. Never. Because I wanted to be sending you balloons, and buying you candy, cute necklaces, and everything else. I feel like I'm letting you down, by not getting what I wanted for you, but now I know that I'd be doing worse if I made you change the date."

I drop to one knee again, and hold out the ring. "Get up, Miles. You know I'm going to marry you. I shouldn't have slapped you. I was just so scared that you didn't want me anymore."

"That's something you should never be afraid of. I'll always want you. More than I want to keep breathing, I want you. I'll be getting on my knees again later to show you just how much," I tell her as I walk to her and slide the ring back on her finger.

"I'm not going to argue about that. But before we go home, we need to talk to the girls and see if they can help my uncles."

"That is an excellent idea."

We run into Stella first, and enlist her to help Ryan. We were afraid that with the wedding styling, she wouldn't have time, but she assures us that she does. She even has an idea about what she'd like to help him do, but she won't tell us. Darcy walks up right then and says she wants in on the helping. We laugh and thank them both.

Tegan's the perfect choice for Owen, and she readily agrees. She knows all about finding sexy, wherever you are. She tells us not to worry at all. She's going to call him right away, and she says she's going to ask Audrey, who grew up in California, to help as well.

Both Reina and Isabelle want to help Scott. They know Yasmin's business has been failing, and they have an idea to help her. All they'll say is that it's something to do with a friend of Tegan's. With Isa's genius level mind, and Reina's business savvy, we know Scott's in good hands. They shoo us out as they start to plan.

For Luke, we enlist Ellie and Jade. Along with Isa, they're the closest in age to Olivia, and they've become good friends. They tell us that they don't know what's been bothering her, but they'll do everything they can to help Luke. And I don't doubt that one bit.

I know Ainsley and Faith would love to help, but we both decide to let them spend time with their guys. Both of their relationships are really new, and we don't want to pull them away. Plus, Faith and Gavin are working on something's that important to both of them right now. We've got plenty of great help. Except for not getting the room for us, everything else looks like it will turn out okay. I'll be keeping my fingers crossed every chance I get, though, because nothing ever seems to go as planned with us and our friends. We may need a Valentin's Miracle. If there even is such a thing.

# Chapter 4

Luke

Ellie and Jade have been helping me plan for the past couple of days. We realized that since the rehearsal dinner ends at eight on Friday, and the wedding isn't until seven thirty on Saturday, I have at least twenty-one hours to wow Ollie. There's nothing saying that we can't start our Valentine's Day early. And there's also no reason we have to stay at Disneyland that whole time. As long as I have us back by four thirty or five, we should be good.

Once we decided that, I had the perfect idea for where to take her. We've been finalizing things all day, and I think we're all set. I've pulled them into a group hug when Ollie walks into our kitchen.

"Isn't this cozy."

"Hey. You're home early today," I tell her, breaking away from the girls to go hug her.

"You're going to touch me after being with _them_?"

"Liv, what the hell? You know we'd never do that and Luke sure as shit wouldn't touch anyone but you," Jade says, looking pissed.

"Everyone wants Luke. Just look at him," she replies, waving her hand at me. "All those girls who hang out at the hockey rink, even when he's kissing me. The moms at his school. How long's he going to wait for me?"

"I'm pretty sure he'll wait forever for you, even if you are being a royal bitch right now," Ellie tells her.

"I would. Beyond forever, even. I can't stop women from looking at me, but I don't want anyone else. I only want you."

I watch her shoulders slump and then she's crying. I go to her immediately. She can push me away if she wants, but I have to try. I love her too much to give up. Miraculously, she lets me hold her. She even wraps her arms around me and pulls me tight up against her. I haven't been this close to her in over a month, and I freeze as I feel what wasn't there before. I pull back immediately.

"You're pregnant?"

"Yes," she says, biting her lip.

"Oh my God, that's great," Ellie tells her, rushing over to hug her.

Jade follows, and they insist that she lift her shirt to show them her little bump. I feel like my legs have weights in them, I can't move. She has a fucking _bump_ which means she's at least a few months along. She not only didn't tell me, but she's been pushing me away. While she's carrying my child. Or maybe not.

"Whose baby is it, Olivia?" I ask her, barely holding onto the anger that wants to break free.

"Wh-what?"

"You didn't tell me you were pregnant, even though you're obviously a few months along. You haven't let me even close enough to hug you in over a month. So I'll ask you again. Who. Is. The. Father. Of. Your. Baby?"

There's complete silence for over a minute as Jade and Ellie take in what I said. They were so excited for their friend that they forgot that I didn't know. I wouldn't have planned all of what I did if I'd known. They won't even look at me, which is good because I wouldn't be able to stand their pity.

"You're the father, Luke," Olivia tells me in a small voice. "How could you doubt that?"

That's who she is to me now—Olivia. My Ollie wouldn't have done this to me. Wouldn't have hid our child from me. I don't even know the woman who's standing in front of me. And I'm honestly not sure I want to.

"I need to leave right now. Will you guys take care of her?"

"Yeah. We got this, Luke," Jade tells me.

I see the pity now when I meet her eyes. Hers widen when she sees the unshed tears in mine. I thought Olivia had broken me once, but that was nothing compared to this. I was worried about her leaving me, but now I can't imagine even being in the same room with her ever again.

"I'll need a paternity test once your child is born. We can work out all the legal stuff then."

"Luke, oh God, no. Please, I can explain. Let me explain."

"I can't."

"We promised. We said we'd always communicate with each other and listen."

"I cannot listen to a fucking word that comes from your lying mouth. Because either you've been keeping the knowledge of my child growing inside of you from me for months, or you've cheated on me. Both are about as fucked up as you can get. And I'm not sure I could forgive either at the moment. I'll see you on the plane, and at the wedding, because I have to. But past that, I-I just don't know where we stand, Olivia. I love you so damn much, but you just destroyed me. You know how much I want to be a dad. I never pushed you, but you _know._ "

I leave before I say or do anything else. She just broke both our hearts and I want to just shake her and ask her how she could do that to us. But I'd never hurt her, pregnant or not, so I'm leaving. And I really can't imagine ever coming back.

* * *

Owen

I'm feeling great. Tegan and Audrey helped me find the perfect hotel to spirit my wife away to, and Cyndi said she'd keep Hope Friday night. I figure I can rock Candi's world, and mine, all night, ringing in the holiday. Then we can sleep for a few hours before taking our little girl to the park. The girls also helped me score VIP passes, so we'll be skipping the lines, so we'll only really need a few hours to do everything Hope would want. Truthfully, a few hours is probably more than enough for her. Especially with the excitement of being the flower girl that night. So, yeah, everything's coming together. And Candi and I will both be coming over and over again.

I haven't told her all my plans, of course. But I did tell her I'd worked something out for us, and that we're definitely celebrating the holiday together. Alone. She smiled so bright, I thought my heart would burst. Damn if I don't love this woman more than anything.

We're settled in watching Frozen—again—with Hope, when the doorbell rings. It has to be family or friends since no one else would've gotten in the front door downstairs. I get up and open the door to see Luke standing on the other side, barely holding it together.

"Unc Luke," Hope yells as she sees him, running over and reaching her arms up.

My brother smiles a sad smile before picking her up and holding her tight. He is losing it now, tears streaming down his face. Candi is next to us in seconds, pulling Hope out of his arms.

"Hope, let's watch the movie."

"I want Unc Luke."

"I know, baby. He needs to talk to Daddy for a few minutes first though, okay. Then I'm sure he'll watch it with us."

"I will, sweetie. You know I love watching your movies with you."

"'Kay, I'll tell you what you miss."

"Thanks, sweet girl," he tells her, kissing the top of her head.

We go downstairs to my studio for some privacy. When we get inside, Luke falls to his knees. "Luke, man, what's wrong?"

"She's pregnant."

"Olivia? That's great. I mean, isn't it?"

He shakes his head. "She didn't tell me. I don't think she planned to tell me."

"What the fuck?"

"Exactly."

He explains what happened at his house, and I'm shocked. Truly and totally shocked. "It has to be yours, though. She wouldn't cheat."

"Are you sure? Because at the moment, I'm not."

"Yes. I'm sure. And you know it, too. I don't know why she kept this from you, but if she's pregnant, there's no way the kid isn't yours. So get that train of thought out of your mind, at least."

"It just hurts so much. She's already robbed me out of however many months of sharing this—sharing the miracle of our child. Not to mention, the physical and emotional distance from her. Why would she push me away?"

"You're going to have to talk to her, and find out."

"I don't think I can talk to her right now. Maybe at the wedding. I mean, I'm not following through with my plans. Part of it wouldn't be good for a pregnant woman, and the rest...yeah, I just can't." He takes a deep breath, before smiling. "What I can do is go see my beautiful goddaughter upstairs, and give you and Candi a couple hours of alone time."

"Seriously?"

"Yep. Snuggling with Hope will do any heart good, and helping you and the Mrs. get your love on is just an added bonus. Someone should be happy, after all."

I run up the stairs. Literally run full-out. Luke follows me up at a slower pace, laughing the whole way. We get him settled with Hope, and then I've got Candi down in my studio. I added a bed this week, hoping we'd get some alone time soon. Tonight is sooner than I could've even wished for, but I'm not complaining.

"I can't believe we have all night together. It's like a dream come true."

"Believe it, babe. Luke's staying over, and he's not letting Hope out of his sight. I get to worship your hot body."

"I'm doing some worshipping, too."

We undress quickly, and then we're just staring and circling each other. This is the first time in forever that we've been able to actually take the time to look. We're usually just rushing, with most of our clothes intact. I make the first move, pulling her too me, with her back to my front. I run my hands all over her body as I suck on her neck.

"Remember when I marked you all over? I want to mark you again."

"I want to paint _you_ this time. First. Please, I've been thinking about that all the time lately."

"Where do you want me?"

This is going to be hot, like crazy hot. When I painted her body, I told her I loved her for the first time. Which makes it one of my favorite days ever. Tonight's going to be right up there, too.

Hours later, after I've been painted and cleaned up, and she's been marked all over by me, we lie in bed, sated and happy. I'm still keeping my Los Angeles plans, because being with my wife makes me want her even more. I know she feels the same way because she's stroking me back to attention as we talk, even though it's only been a few minutes. I'm not complaining.

# Chapter 5

Ryan

Stella and Darcy helped me plan the perfect present for Chloe. I'd thought about something like this before, but what Stella was able to do goes beyond what I'd even hoped for. Darcy's been doing most of the legwork so Stella can concentrate on the wedding, and I've gotten to know her a little bit better. She's really cool and badass, but a real romantic at heart. I wasn't expecting that part, but it's a pleasant surprise.

Chloe had a couple of meetings today, so we're plotting in my office. We're in the middle of laughing over something one of the people on the phone just told us, when Chloe walks in.

"Oh. Hi Darcy. I didn't know you were meeting with Ryan today. Is he helping you with a mission?"

"No. I'm helping him. But I should go since everything's in place. I'll see you guys on the plane tomorrow."

She hugs me and then Chloe before leaving. Chloe's standing in front of my desk with a hand on her hip, and an eyebrow quirked. "A secret project, huh?"

"Yep."

She turns like she's going to leave, but locks my door instead. Shit. She's going to get it out of me. I'm not even going to try and pretend that she won't. People see me as this big, tough, businessman who takes no prisoners. But my wife can bring me to my knees with just a touch. And we both know it.

"I want to surprise you, Chlo. Don't try to get it out of me. Please."

"So it's for me?" she asks as she starts unbuttoning her shirt.

I can only nod as I see her perfect tits come into view. They're encased in white lace, but there's nothing innocent about what I want to do to her at the moment. At most moments, if I'm being honest. You'd think after all this time, my desire would lessen. But I want my wife as much, if not more, than I did all those years ago when we were teenagers falling in love.

"Okay. I'll let you off, as long as you get me off before I go back to work."

"You need it, huh?" I ask her with a smile, as I start taking off my own shirt.

"Oh yeah. I was in that boring meeting, so I had to think about my hot husband and fantasize about what he'd do to me when I got back to his office."

"How do you want it, sweetheart?"

"However my alpha wants me to have it," she says as she starts on her skirt.

Oh yeah. That's my sexy woman. Letting me have it my way because she knows it'll be beyond good for her no matter what. I look around my office, wanting to do something new. We've been in this office more times than I could count. But, there is something different in here. Something we've designed together to show a client. And when I see it, I know exactly what we're going to do.

"Climb onto the light, Chloe," I tell her as the last of our clothes fall to the floor.

"But it's not ours."

"It is now. We'll make another one for the client."

She bites her lip, but does as I ask. She knows exactly what I want, so she hooks her heels into the foot holds on the bottom, and secures her hands in the loops at the top. This giant light is for a nightclub. They wanted something they could hook a dancer into and have her shadowy form projected everywhere as the light moved around her. Because that's what this light does. It changes color, and moves all around. And then I have another idea.

"Strap in your ankles. I'm taking you upside down, if you think you can handle it."

Her eyes widen once she gets what we're going to do, and she immediately reaches down to secure her ankles. "This is going to be so hot, Ry. I _need_ this."

"And I'm going to take care of you," I remind her as I turn on the pulsing light and set it to change color.

She's spread completely open as the lights pulse around her body. I see her pussy glistening and I lick my lips. I use the controls to slowly flip her around and then get her positioned just right. She's upside down, and angled back a little so it's not too uncomfortable for her. I walk up to her and she immediately reaches for me. She's got my cock in her mouth before I can even take my first lick.

I stagger a little, but quickly recover. I'm licking and sucking her while she does the same to me. I start sliding my fingers into her as she uses her hand to pump my base. We've done this so many times that we know what each other wants and needs. I use one hand in her and the other to pinch her nipple hard as I suck and nibble on her clit. She's hollowing her cheeks to take me deep while pumping with one hand and digging her nails into my ass with her other.

It's not long until she's actively fucking my face as she bucks into me. Her ankles are restricting her movement a little, but not enough to lessen her pleasure. Or mine. I know we're both close, but I'm not losing this contest. I twist my fingers and suck hard, knowing I'll take her over.

She comes on a cry that hums over my cock, making my thrust into her mouth over and over as I give it all to her. Neither one of us lets up as we both continue to come, and I'm not sure if we'll even stop. We do stop, of course, and I quickly flip her around and undo her ankles before climbing up next to her.

"God, Ry. That was top ten. Definitely top ten."

"Agreed," I tell her as I nuzzle her neck.

Once is never enough for either of us, which is why we're lucky that Erin is such a good, sound sleeper. Our sex life hasn't suffered at all, which I am extremely grateful for. I continue to caress her beautiful body as I kiss and lick her neck. She strokes me lightly, until I'm more than ready for her again. We spend the next couple of hours proving that the light box is sturdy enough for commercial use. I'm definitely a lucky man.

* * *

Scott

The plan is solid. I knew it would be with Reina and Isa helping and Tegan getting me in touch with her friend, but I have to admit, what've we've come up with is pretty awesome. Now I just have to convince Yas to let me fund at least part of it. Easy, right? Yeah, I know it won't be.

I greet Sam and Erika as I walk into the store. They've been doing their best to calm my wife down, too. Everyone but her realizes that if she closes the doors to this store, she's not failing her parents. But it's hard to be practical when your emotions are involved. I'd give her the money to keep the store going in a heartbeat. Hell, I wouldn't have to even give it to her. We've been married for a few years now with joint bank accounts. She could just take what she needs, but she won't. That's a big part of why I love her, but it frustrates the fuck out of me, too.

"Hi, baby," I tell her as I walk to the back room.

"Daddy!"

"Well, hello Little Man," I say as I pick Dave up and throw him over my shoulder before continuing to walk over to his mommy.

I kiss her passionately as I always do when I see her. Kid or no kid, she's still my sexy wife. It's important to me that she always knows how hot I still think she is, even several years and a little boy later.

"Hi, Pretty Boy," she says as she caresses my cheek.

"You look sad."

"I'm always sad. I know it. You've been great about it."

"I'm here forever, Yas. I know it won't always be hearts and flowers. I'm good with everything. I hate to see you upset, but I know it won't last."

"Please don't offer to bail me out again."

"I'm not going to. You have access to whatever money you need, you know that. So, I'm just going to let you do what you think is best."

She hops up onto one of the sorting tables, and pats the spot next to her. "Danny, can you take Dave out front for a few minutes?"

"Sure."

I hand off our little guy, who I'd left squirming on my shoulder as I saw to his mom. Once they're out the door, I jump up next to her and take her hand. She smiles up at me, one of the first real smiles I've seen from her in a while. Well, outside of bed. I always make her smile when we're in bed.

"Stop thinking about sex," she says with a laugh, slapping my arm.

"I can't when I'm with you," I tell her with a shrug.

"Can I see my tattoo?"

That's a weird request, but I reach back and pull my shirt over my head. She leans forward to trace the book with her name that resides over my heart. Then she kisses it, tracing it with her tongue. I want to hold her, but I feel like I just need to let her do what she needs to instead. After a few seconds, she sits back and gives a sad smile.

"You'll have to change that if I close the store."

"No. This is where we met. And even when you were being a crazy pen lady, I knew I wanted you. I even ruined a sexy book for you once. A book is perfect for you."

"I am _not_ a crazy pen lady. And you _did_ ruin that book, and then left me wanting."

"I haven't left you wanting ever again, and I feed your pen love all the time."

"True."

"Plus I'm getting you smiling and laughing. So I think I win as best husband ever."

"You're definitely a finalist."

"I'll take that for the moment."

"I'm closing the store. I don't know what I'm going to do afterwards. I can't just sit home all day, even though I know I _could_."

"Whatever you want is what I want. You know that."

"I do. I just feel like I'm disappointing you."

"And them?" I say, meaning her parents.

"Actually, no. I realized that they would've done it before now. Because it's the right choice. In this economy, a small bookstore isn't going to thrive. Although I want to help my friends Scott and Drew with The Writer's Block. I'll send as many of my customers as possible to them. Some people still won't go downtown, but I want to convince them it's safe."

"Yeah. We'll help the guys however we can. And for the record, you're not disappointing me _at all_. I just want you to be happy."

"You make me happy. I'll find something to do."

I already have that figured out, but like I said, I'm not sure she'll readily agree. It's perfect for her, even if she doesn't know about it yet. I'll convince her, though. Because I love my wife more than anything, and I won't be happy if she's not. Failure is definitely not an option.

# Chapter 6

Owen

The flight was pretty uneventful. Well, except for Olivia crying while Luke ignored her. The girls all hovered around her, trying to cheer her up. None of them could blame my brother, though. Candi was beyond pissed when she heard that Liv's been keeping her pregnancy from him, and the other girls are baffled. She still won't tell anyone why. We all know who the father is, even if Luke's still pretending he doesn't, and won't talk to her. He knows he has to, but he's hurt. Really, really hurt. I can't blame him.

I don't mean to sound heartless, but I can't focus on them right now. The rehearsal dinner is almost over, and then I'm whisking my wife away for our sexy night. She doesn't know, and I'm smiling as I walk up to tell her.

"You look very happy, Art Boy."

"I'm going to be with my wife all night. _Alone_. What's not to be happy about?"

"What?"

"Cyndi's keeping Hope while I whisk you away for a sexy night. We'll be back in time to take her to the parks for a few hours before the wedding, but I need my wife for at least part of Valentine's Day."

"It's Valentine's Day across the world already."

"That it is."

We say our goodbyes and thank Cyndi before grabbing the overnight bag I packed for us and getting into the waiting limo. The door's barely closed before Candi's on my lap. No complaints from me as she rubs herself on me and devours my mouth.

"God, I want you so much. The other night took the edge off, but I need more."

"You're going to get it, babe."

"Yes, I am."

She reaches between us and releases me from my pants. Lifting her flowing skirt, she guides me inside her. I want to thank her for skipping the panties, but I can't form words as she starts moving. I throw my head back and grip her hips. This time's all about her. She's setting the pace as she licks and bites my lips. I know I should be a more active participant, but I'll take over once we get to the hotel.

I lose myself in the feeling of her sliding over me again and again until I feel her clench tight around my cock and yell out my name. I follow behind her, and pull her to me once I stop shuddering. "I'm sorry, Cand. I shouldn't have let you do all the work."

"You'll make it up to me later," she reminds me as she nuzzles into my neck.

"Definitely."

We put our clothes back together, but make-out all the way to the hotel. Our relationship started out as sexual, and although it's now so much more, we both need a night to be wild again. We're checked in and in our villa within minutes of getting out of the car. The fireplace is going, and our clothes are gone.

I roll the high bench in the bedroom until it's in front of the fireplace, and in view of the mirror over the bed. Just like I want it. "Lie down with your feet on the floor."

"I like this," she says as she does what I ask.

I don't answer her. I know we'll both be _loving_ it in a few moments. I straddle the bench and hook her legs over my arms, pulling the lower half of her body up. I enter her in one thrust, and we both cry out.

I alternate between looking down at Candi and looking at us both in the mirror as I move her feet to my shoulders. I lean over a little to hold onto the arm of the bench that's above her head. The shift in position has my sexy wife going a little crazy under me as I move in and out of her at a fast pace. Her heels are digging into my shoulders, and she pulls my mouth down for a hot kiss.

"Owen," she screams as she comes hard.

I drop her legs and reach between us to pinch her clit. I succeed in prolonging her orgasm as I let myself go. We're both shuddering and shaking, and it goes on longer than I can ever remember before. Maybe it's because it's been so long since we've been completely alone. Or maybe it's just because we're both still in as much lust as love with each other.

The rest of the night goes pretty much the same way. We make use of the heated private pool, the shower, couch, and, of course, the bed. We give each other our presents after midnight. I sketched her a date, and she gave me a picture of her ankle in the strappy heels she was wearing tonight. We fall asleep as the sun comes up, wrapped around each other, and believe me, nothing's better than this.

The alarm goes off too soon, but we're both also excited to take Hope into the park. She's been there before, but she's at a good age to appreciate everything a little more now. We kiss and hold hands in the limo back to Anaheim, but don't take it any further. We could definitely go another few rounds, but not today. Today's for our little girl and my niece.

We call Cyndi when we're almost there, so she's waiting with Hope as we pull up. I leave our bag with the bellman and we all head inside. We thank Cyndi and head into Disneyland first. This VIP thing is pretty awesome since it seems like everyone wants to spend Valentine's Day at the parks.

We're having a late lunch at the restaurant we came to for Alex's birthday. Right now it's a princess themed meal, and Hope is in heaven. With her mouse ears on, she's been posing for character photos like a boss. She even made her mom proud by asking the professional photographer which kind of camera he was using. That's our girl.

"Daddy, you said I could have whatever I want today."

"Yep. Did you think of something else you need?" I ask. There's already going to be no room to sleep in our suite after all the packages we've had sent there, but I can't say no to either of my girls. Ever.

"One of those," she says, pointing to the table next to us.

I realize that she's pointing at their baby and I look to Candi, both of our eyes wide. "You want a baby, Hope?"

"Yes. I don't care if it's a brother or sister. I just want one."

Candi gets a big smile on her face, and leans over to take Hope's hand. "We'll need some help from you for that."

"I'll help. What do I do?"

"Well, you know how Daddy designs his paintings and sculptures, and I design my pictures?" Hope nods. "We have to do a different kind of designing to have a baby. It has to happen at night, and only if you stay in your own room and don't come into ours."

"What if I get scared?"

I snort. Our kid is fearless. "You never get scared, Munchkin."

"I know," she says with a smile. "I'm a big girl. But what if I did?"

"Then you just come knock at our door first, and we'll let you in with us."

"Can I cuddle sometimes still?"

"How about one night a week we plan as family cuddling night, but the other nights you let us work on designing a new baby?"

"'Kay. Start tonight."

We laugh and I meet Candi's eyes over her little head. "You want another?" I mouth to her.

"If it's okay," she says out loud, biting her lip.

"Definitely," I tell her as I lean over to kiss her and then our girl.

I'm going to get to make love to my wife almost every night of the week. And we're going to try for another baby. We didn't try the first time, so I'm feeling some pressure on me and my little swimmers to perform. I think we're up to the task, though, so I don't worry too much. I've got the perfect wife and most amazing daughter. My life is already the stuff of dreams.

# Chapter 7

Ryan

The clock has just struck midnight on Valentine's Day. I'm in a freestanding bathtub, soaking in a bubble bath with Chloe. I booked us a hotel in L.A. for the night, so we'd be closer to her present for tomorrow. We've already tried out the bed, and the couch. She saw this tub and let out a squeal. I reminded her that she could've put one like this in our house, but she said it wasn't right for that house.

"Would you want a tub like this if we had another house?"

"Maybe. Are you thinking about another house for us?"

"Actually, I did more than think about it. I built us a new house. I was planning on taking you to see it this weekend."

She whips around and straddles me, bubbles clinging to her in the sexiest ways. "What? Where?"

"Just outside of Seattle."

"You built us a house there? Oh my God, Ry." She kisses me hard and then pulls back with a confused look on her face. "Did you decorate it?"

"Of course not. Just the structure is done."

"Hmm. Well we should properly try out this bathtub to see if it will work in the new house."

I smile as she reaches down to take me in her hand. She strokes me a few times. I groan and cup her tits. She's the one groaning as I run my thumbs over her hard nipples. We tease each other for another minute or so.

Then she's lifting up and sliding down my rock hard length. Oh yeah, this is home. We could live in a shack on the beach, and I'd still be home if I could be with her. That's the last non-sexual thing I think of before giving over to the sensations coursing through me.

I take one of her luscious breasts into my mouth and swirl my tongue around the nipple. She arches her back and cries out. She's close, but so am I. I'm letting her take the lead, though, so I don't allow myself to thrust up. Yet. I do start biting one nipple and then the next, while moving my hand down to play with her clit. She'd get there regardless, but I'm being greedy, and needy. I want her to break now.

With my mouth and hands working her beautiful body, she's screaming my name within seconds. I move my hands to her hips and begin to thrust. She kisses me hard, twisting her tongue around mine, and I'm coming less than a minute later. I cup her cheeks and slow her kisses into something sweeter as we both start to relax.

"You're welcome," I tell her with a smirk.

"Jerk," she says as she splashes me.

"That wasn't a thank you?'

"No. Your thank you was going to be a spectacular blow job, but I'm not so sure anymore," she says as she stands up and gets out of the tub.

I chuckle because I know that's a lie. She loves sucking me off as much as I love licking her pussy. And that's a lot. "So, you don't want to sixty-nine once we're dry?"

Her eyes light up with desire, but in the next second she tries to hide it. "No."

"Liar," I tease as I climb out of the tub myself. "I'll be lying on the bed if you change your mind."

She makes me wait longer than I thought she would. In fact, I started to get a little worried. "You're lucky I love your cock."

"I am. I'm thankful every day. And I love your pussy."

"I know. I'm lucky, too," she says as she climbs over me.

A couple of hours later, we're cuddling in bed when I remember something. "Oh, I have your 'reason' in my wallet."

"Me too."

We both get up with smiles on our face and grab them. We swap papers and laugh because this has happened several times now—we've written the same thing.

Reason #2,328 that you're AWESOME and I LOVE YOU: It just keeps getting better and better every day.

"So, tell me more about this house. And moving."

"I'll do one better, I'll show you."

I pull out a smaller version of the blue prints and sketches from the bag I brought for us. I grab her hand, and we walk to the table in the living room area. I'm actually a little nervous as I unroll everything for her to see. I didn't consult her on this house like I did for our Vegas one. I wanted to surprise her, but I know I should've given her a chance to have some input.

"Stop worrying. You know I love everything you design."

"Who says I'm worried?"

She turns and cocks an eyebrow at me. That's hot. Like really hot. I lick my lips as I think about how good she'd look spread out on the table for me.

"Ow," I say as she smacks me on the chest.

"Focus. I've known you for half my life. So, I'm saying you're worried, but you shouldn't be. You know what I love, and you left the interiors for me."

"You love it? Really?"

"I do. It's a perfect second home. I mean, if it's a second home."

"It is. I'm not looking to leave my family and friends or take a lesser role with the company. I figured we could spend summers there, though."

"That would be wonderful. You're wonderful. My present sucks in comparison."

"I liked the sucking."

She rolls her eyes before smacking me again. "Does your mind ever leave the gutter?"

"With you around? No. I can't say that it does."

"I guess I should be glad you still want me."

"Always. Oh, and the plans aren't all I'm giving you."

"Seriously, Ry?"

"Whose mind is in the gutter now? I meant that I have something else planned as a gift. Can I have mine now?"

"Yes," she says sheepishly. "But now that I know there's something else, I feel even more inadequate."

"I'll love whatever you give me, so stop it with the crazy talk. No part of you is even close to inadequate."

She reaches into her big purse and hands me a long box. I open it to see several pairs of cufflinks that have a griffin with a butterfly on its nose on them. Just like the glass sculpture I had made for her years ago. I don't know what she was worried about. There's some for every occasion and they're perfect.

"They're amazing, sweetheart. I'll have to go buy some more French cuff shirts so I can wear them every day."

"That's part of your present. I had a bunch made for you in all the colors you like."

"Seriously? You are the best wife ever."

"I love you, Ry."

"I love you too, Chlo."

I pick her up and carry her back to bed. To go to sleep. She's surprised when I say that, but I tell her we have to get up early for her other present. She grumbles a little, but I promise her she'll like it. We fall asleep like we normally do, with her head on my chest and my arms around her. Perfect.

When we pull up to Mood the next morning, Chloe turns to me with her eyes sparkling. "You're taking me to Mood? Are you going to buy me a 'Thank you, Mood' t-shirt?"

"If you want," I tell her with a laugh.

"Of course I want. You know how much I love Project Runway."

"I do."

I can't wait to walk inside and have her see her real present. We're not just here so she can see the store. She practically runs inside and then comes to a stop.

"Hi, Chloe," says her favorite designer from the show.

"You know my name?'

"Breathe, Chlo," I tell her with a laugh. "He's here to design a few dresses for you. He'll show you all the sketches and then you're going to pick the fabrics."

"Really? How did you do this? I mean, I know you can do pretty much anything, but this?"

"Stella helped with this, and Darcy helped with what comes next. Now go have fun while I get the rest of your present. Oh, and you can pick the sketches you like best or have them all. Whatever you want."

She pulls me in for a sexy and passionate kiss in the middle of the store. There's some clapping when we pull apart, and I leave with a smile. I owe Stella big for this. I probably could've done it myself, but her connections made it so much easier.

Darcy's waiting for me outside of the jewelry store. I give her a hug and we walk in. One of her missions was helping find out which employee was stealing from this store and then upgrading their security system. She arranged for them to make a custom piece for me this week, even though they were swamped.

"Hello, Mr. Griffin."

I shake the owner's hand. "Please call me Ryan. And thank you for squeezing me in."

"Anything for Darcy. She really saved our business."

She waves him off, but she's smiling. We go into a small office, and he pulls the earrings out. They're beautiful, made of sapphires and diamonds. Pretty ironic. I thank him again and pay.

"Thanks for everything, Darcy."

"Anytime, Ryan. I'll see you guys later."

I walk back into Mood and can barely see Chloe over the pile of fabric on the cutting table. She went for them all. I knew she would. I'm surprised by some of the fabrics, though. They're not her usual colors or patterns.

"Trying something new?"

"Ry," she says jumping into my arms and kissing me again. "Thank you. Thank you. Thank you."

"You're very welcome."

"To answer your question, yes. I've been convinced that I'll look good in those colors and patterns."

"You'd look amazing in a trash bag. Or nothing."

"You're proving my point from a few hours ago. Again."

I shrug. What can I say? My wife makes me horny. I'm not going to apologize for that.

After I've paid for everything, we say goodbye to the designer. He'll be flying out with the dresses in a month. Our friend, Quinn, has said that he can use her sewing studio for anything he needs. We put up the privacy screen in the limo and I give Chloe her other gift.

"Oh my God. How do we keep doing this?"

"We're just totally in sync with each other I guess."

The earrings I got her are the same design as the pair of formal cufflinks she gave me, along with the others. A diamond griffin with a sapphire butterfly on its nose. She thanks me in a very satisfying way before we pull up to our hotel.

I groan out loud as I see my little girl. Erin is almost two, but she takes after Chloe and me, so she's tall and looks like she's five. Kevin has her dressed completely in sequins and glitter. She looks fucking adorable, but I think people on the other side of the city can probably see her. The only thing she doesn't have on are mouse ears. He promised to let us get them for her. I'm afraid she's going to want those covered in sparkles, too. She'll get whatever she wants, of course. I'm pussy whipped _and_ kiddie whipped. And proud of it.

"Daddy, I need ears."

"I know, Eri. We'll get you some."

"Pretty ones?"

"Only the prettiest for my best girl."

She turns to Kevin. "I'm the best girl and Mommy's the best wife."

Out of the mouth of babes. "Yes, you are."

We thank Kevin, who winks at me because he knows what he's done. After we drop off our bags, we get her—and me—sparkly ears. I know people are looking at me as we go on all the rides and take pictures with the characters, but who cares. I'm man enough to wear some glitter and sequins.

Chloe's not as okay with it when some random chick tries to hit on me. While I have Erin in my arms. I see her eyes flash, and pull her to us with my free hand. I kiss the hell out of her, and the woman's gone when we break apart. I get a big smile from my wife, which means my work here is done. I just kicked some Valentine's Day ass.

# Chapter 8

Scott

"Daddy, we see Buzz Lightyear tomorrow?"

"Yes, Davey. Tomorrow we're going to see Buzz and all the other characters. But tonight you need to stay with Grammy and Grandpa so I can give Mommy a present."

"Did you make her something? She loves the making presents the best. She says my pictures make her happy."

"I kind of made her something. I hope she likes it."

"She'll like it. She loves you. She told me."

God, I love my kid. "I love her, too. And you too, buddy."

"I know."

"What are my two guys talking about so seriously over here?"

"Whether you'll like Daddy's present. I told him you love him, so you'll like it."

"You're right," Yas says, kissing him on the cheek.

"I'm going to go with Grammy and Grandpa now. I'll see you tomorrow. Don't forget about Buzz."

"We won't," I assure him.

"We have the best kid ever."

"Yeah we do, baby. Are you ready to go?"

"You packed everything we need?"

"Yep."

"Then, yes, I'm ready."

"You got your game controllers, bro?" Owen asks as he walks by with Candi.

Yas and I both flip him off. "You could, you know," she whispers to me when they're gone.

I do know. When she let me tie her up with them years ago, it freaked her out. So I was surprised when she gave me a pair for our anniversary last year. She said she knew she had nothing to worry about, and if I wanted to, I could tie her up again. We've used them a few times—I've been tied up with them, too. But I didn't bring them tonight. This is about something different.

"Not tonight, but thanks for offering."

As soon as our driver closes the door, she puts up the privacy screen and climbs on my lap. I settle my hands on her hips and smile at her. She leans forward and sucks my lip ring into her mouth as I rub her back. "Thanks for giving me a night to relax, Pretty Boy."

"I hate seeing you so stressed. Hopefully my present will make you feel better."

"Just being with you always makes me feel better."

"Same."

We kiss until the car stops almost an hour later. I know our lips are swollen, both of us have fucked up hair, and I'm about to bust out of my pants. This night is already pretty perfect.

"The W? We're staying at another one?" Yas asks, her eyes sparkling.

"Of course."

Since we stayed at the one in Chicago after going public with our relationship, we've tried out several others. We haven't been to this one yet, since we usually stay at my parents' house here in L.A. But Luke needed it tonight, so I figured this would be perfect.

Our Extreme WOW suite here has a couch curving around the big window. I notice a cushioned ledge behind it, and I'm even happier. We'll play with that later. Right now, I need to talk to her. I lead her over to the chairs and sit down in one, not letting her onto my lap just yet.

"I can't sit with you?"

"After we talk, you can sit wherever you want, baby."

"Anywhere? Are you going to do the thing you love?"

I chuckle as I remember telling her going down on a woman was just okay. We both know I think it's a lot more with her. But I still won't act like those guys in her books—at least when it comes to that. "I'll do the thing _you_ love. Anytime. Anywhere."

"It could be my present—you saying it."

"I once told you I'd say it and you said I didn't have to." It was the first night of the game controllers, and I would've done anything for her. Including that.

"I know. It's just so sexy when the guys say it in the books."

"I'm not sexy enough?'

"You are," she says with a sigh, giving up. "Go ahead and tell me about my real present."

"Reina and Isa let me know that Tegan has a family friend who's been wanting to expand his foundation to include literacy programs. I agreed to donate as long as he put a branch in Las Vegas. And you could be the Director."

"What? Me?"

"Yes, you. You always tell me how you want to do more for literacy in middle and high school students. You said they get lost sometimes, but can be brought back to reading with the right book. Combining your business degree and your love of books would make this the perfect job for you."

"But you're giving it to me. I didn't earn it."

"The hell you didn't, Yas. This guy had actually heard of you before I got involved. He had a whole file on all the things you've done. You were one of the people he was looking to talk to for a position in the Midwest. My contribution just keeps you in Vegas. And helps the kids there."

"He really wanted me?"

"Yes. Even with me putting up the money for that branch, he's not the type of guy to put someone in a position like this if they wouldn't be a good representative of his company."

"What would I be doing?"

"Exactly what you told me you've dreamed of doing, but wouldn't let me make happen for you because you're too proud." She starts to complain, but I put a hand over her mouth. "You know it's true. I would've done this for you. Or you could've done it yourself. We _share_ everything. You know that—it's not my money. It's _ours._ "

"My friends can work with me?" I nod. "And we'll be giving away books, hosting authors, and doing book talks?"

"Yep. And whatever else you can think of. Plus, it won't just be me funding it. Reina talked to Jane and they're giving some of the Corrigan Foundation money to fund the program. And she's planning a big ball for after you're up and running. Isa and Tegan want to volunteer with you whenever they're not on a mission."

"Of course Isa and Tegan can volunteer. Reina helped, too?"

"Yes. We all love you, baby. They hate seeing you sad. Not as much as I hate it, but enough to want to see you smile more."

"This is just...I don't even know what to say."

"Yes?"

"Of course, yes! Thank you so much. You've lifted a huge weight off of me. I wasn't ready to give up books."

"You're very welcome. You should know by now that I'd do anything to make you happy."

"I _do_ know that."

I lean over to kiss her, and then lift her up to a standing position so I can unzip her dress. I make quick work of her bra and lacy boy shorts, too. She reaches for me, but I back away. I don't need my clothes off yet. "I don't need anything off at the moment."

I pick her up and carry her to the column connecting the windows. It has a little area with pillows and a cushion. Like it was made for what I want to do. I sit her down and spread her legs wide. Then I place her hands above her head on the column. The city and mountains are behind her. I didn't turn on many lights when we walked in, so everything looks perfect. She's perfect.

I kneel on the couch in front of her and kiss her breasts. After they've been properly explored, I move lower, licking her ribs and nibbling on her hips. I spend extra time on the one with my tattoo. She's more than ready when I get to the place where we both want me to be.

I take one long lick and have to hold myself back from just devouring her. I want to draw out her pleasure for as long as I can. But fuck if she doesn't taste good. She always has, and I know I need to give in and give her what she's always wanted.

"You taste so damn good, Yas. So good. I could come just from fucking you with my mouth. I love it."

I look up long enough to see the smile lighting up her face, and then I'm back to business. And pleasure. I lick and suck as she runs her hands up and down the column, purposely putting ideas in my head. Such a bad girl. And I love it.

I don't want to add my fingers, because my mouth is greedy for every last drop of her, but I do it anyway. It only takes a few practiced twists and a little bit of teeth. Her hands move to my hair, tugging hard. "Scott. Oh God. Oh fuck me. Scott, fuck me."

She doesn't have to ask twice. I have my pants off, and she's turned around on the ledge next to the column, within seconds. Her hands are against the glass, and she's still panting from the orgasm I gave her. I thrust hard and just sit there, balls deep, for a moment. It feels so good. It always does.

I can't go slow, and I know she doesn't want me to. I take her hard and rough, her hands sliding up and down the glass as she tries to stay upright. "I've got you," I tell her as I hold her hips tight.

"Harder, Scott. I need it."

I press her fully against the glass as I let loose. I'm biting her shoulders and she's holding onto my ass now, her fingers digging into my flesh. She screams again, and then I'm lost in the sensations as I shoot into her, coming so hard I almost fall backwards. I manage to lean into her instead.

"That was...we haven't done it like that in a while," I tell her when I'm finally able to speak again.

"Yeah. But we should. Make that happen, okay?"

"Definitely. I love you, Yas."

"I love you too, Pretty Boy."

Once I've regained some of my strength, I carry her into the shower. It's not as sexy as the one in Chicago, but that couch more than made up for it. After we've played in there, we cuddle on the bed. I'm so sated and happy that I start to doze off.

"Oh no. I need to give you your present. Although, after the business news and finally telling me you love going down on me, I'm not sure I should. It's nowhere near as exciting."

"It's from you, so I know it'll be good. Oh, and can you grab me some briefs from our bag? I don't want to open the door for breakfast naked tomorrow."

"There's a robe."

"Please?"

"If I must. I don't like you covering up my property, though."

"It'll stay uncovered when I don't have to answer the door. Promise."

"Okay, then."

I hear a squeal and know that she's found what I really wanted her to get from the bag. She comes running in, clutching the bouquet of pens to her chest. "Where are my briefs?" I ask her with a laugh.

"You got me pens! Beautiful, wonderful pens."

"With special messages on them, even."

"What? Huh?"

She looks at them and starts smiling. I had a bunch of each made with different messages of love and encouragement just for her. I'll give her the extras when we get home. She starts crying, and I know they're happy tears. My wife is definitely emotional.

"They're perfect. You're perfect. Now my gift is even worse, though."

"Let me be the judge of that. Hand it over."

She does, looking nervous. I open the package to find a small book. When I open it up, I see that each page has a different quote about computers on it in English, or a romantic or sexy message in binary code. They're all different fonts and it's perfect.

"How?"

"Scott and Drew helped me make it. I'd planned to just do quotes, but I saw how much you liked what Zack did for Ainsley with the binary code, so I included that, too."

"I knew I liked those guys. Especially since one of them has a great name. This is the best gift ever." I pull her to me and start to kiss her neck. "And I told Ainsley that if you ever did something like that for me, I'd have you coming all night."

"Please do."

I spend the rest of the night keeping that promise. I wear the robe to answer the door for our breakfast, and then we go pick up our boy. We take pictures with Buzz, Woody, and everyone else we can find. Even the princesses. He's little enough to not think girls have cooties yet. I am truly the luckiest man alive, and no one knows that better than me.

# Chapter 9

Luke

Well, this is awkward. The rehearsal dinner has ended, but I'm still sitting here in the almost empty room, where just a few of us are left. It's just me, Jade, Ellie, and my soon to be ex-wife. Oh, and let's not forget her sister, who's the maid of honor at the wedding, and won't stop glaring at me. Or her doctor, whose wife has become good friends with my mom and has also been giving me strange looks all night. Probably because I've been drinking non-stop.

It's the doctor who finally speaks. "I know things are hard, Luke. But as I've told Olivia, the two of you still have time to make choices."

"Choices?" What the hell is he talking about?

"There's no choice. I've told you that, over and over again. It doesn't matter what he wants. I'm having this baby."

"What the fuck, Olivia?" I ask.

I may have been drinking, but I'm not drunk enough to ignore that there's something going on here. Something he thinks I know about. I'd like to know, though, and I realize that one way or another, I'm getting the answers I need tonight.

"You haven't told him?" he asks, his eyes wide.

"It's not his choice."

"So, the baby really isn't mine. Good to know," I say as I stand up.

"Of course the baby's yours," Rose tells me, standing to face me. "How could you even think my sister would cheat on you?"

"She didn't tell me she was pregnant, and now she says I have no choice in whatever the fuck's going on. I think it's pretty clear that it's not mine."

"Olivia, you promised me that you would tell him. He has a right to know."

"I can't, Doc. I just can't. Because I won't change my mind. And if he tries to change it, I'll hate him forever."

"You won't know until you tell me, now will you?" I'm being a surly bastard, but I really don't give a fuck.

She looks at me then, the woman I love more than life itself. I see the tears in her eyes, and I just want to hold her and tell her we'll be okay. But I can't if she won't talk to me.

"Can we go somewhere and talk?" she asks in a small voice, running her hands over her stomach.

"Yes."

"You can use the house. We didn't cancel anything, so it's all set up," Jade tells me.

"The house?"

"I was planning on us having a romantic night at the house here. Before I found out what was upsetting you. Or at least the part of it you finally let me know. I thought maybe I could make you love me again."

The alcohol is making me a little more honest than I want to be, but it is what it is. I've laid myself bare for her before. I can do it again. Because I love her. And nothing will ever change that. Not even if this baby belonged to someone else. I'd hate what she did, but I could never hate her.

That realization sends a shudder through my body and makes me realize that there has to be a way to fix this. Before I knew she was pregnant, I was willing to do anything I could to keep her. Yes, she lied to me and is in fact, still lying to me. But I still need to try and keep her.

"I've never stopped loving you Luke. Never. Do you still want me to go there with you? You may not like what I tell you."

"But I'll love you no matter what, Ollie."

"Really?"

"Yeah. I've been a dick the last couple of days because I was hurt. But even if the baby was someone else's, I'd raise it if that's what you wanted. Because I meant my wedding vows. Both times I said them. For better or for worse, I'm yours. I screwed that up once, but I'm not going to do that again."

"It's your baby. I promise. And we've both screwed things up. I don't want to do that again, either."

"Then we definitely need to go talk."

I hold out my hand, and she takes it. I pull her to me and kiss the top of her head. We walk out to the waiting car and make the hour long drive to the house. We don't talk, or even look at each other. We just hold hands.

I lead her up the stairs to my room once we're inside. The interior is flickering with the light of electric candles everywhere. There's also stuffed animals covering almost every surface, and a plate of macarons from Drago Sisters Bakery back in Vegas. The bed is covered in flower petals, with a sexy lace nightie in the middle.

"It's beautiful. And perfect."

"Still?"

"Always."

She grabs a bigger version of her Ollie octopus, and clutches it to her chest as she sits on the floor. She pats the space next to her, and I join her. I know why she ignored the bed, but we could've cuddled in the chair. Then again, maybe it's not time for cuddling again yet.

"You can tell me anything, Ollie. In fact, I need you to tell me everything. Even if it's bad. I can handle it as long as I know you won't leave."

"I won't," she says, taking a deep breath. "When I found out I was pregnant, I was so happy, but also so scared."

I want to ask her why, but I sense that she needs for me to let her say it all before I speak. So I remain quiet and just place my hand over one of hers.

"I should've told you this before we got married. Or stayed married, but I couldn't. My parents almost had a third child. They found out the baby had Down Syndrome and chose to terminate the pregnancy. Although it's not very often that it's inherited, I knew I carried a gene that could make it more prevalent in a child."

I'm breathing as hard as she is as she continues. "I didn't want a test, because there's no way I would ever terminate a pregnancy. I'm totally pro-choice, but I couldn't do it myself. And I don't care if my child has special needs. I wouldn't love my baby less for it."

"But you did have the test, didn't you?" I ask, remembering the doctor saying that we had options.

She nods. "Doc convinced me that either way, I needed to be prepared. That's when I decided I was going to wait until after the test to tell you. I wanted you to have a chance to leave if you couldn't handle it."

"You think I would leave you, and our _child_ , because he or she would have special needs?"

I remove my hand from hers and just stare at her in shock. My anger's coming back now, too. How could she think that about me? I volunteer with Special Olympics and Opportunity Village in Las Vegas.

"No. Yes. Maybe. No. I let Doc get me freaked out, but I know you'll love him even though he'll need some extra help with things."

"Him? It's a boy?"

"Yes. It's a boy. The test told us that, too."

I push her hands out of the way so I can cup her stomach with my hands. Then I lean over and kiss that little bump. It's not enough. I'm not close enough to my son. I want to crawl inside her womb and tell my little boy how much I love him. Just the way he is.

"Have you had a sonogram already?"

"No. I-I couldn't do that without you."

I look up into her eyes and see remorse there, along with fear. She went the wrong route with all of this, but I know she thought she was doing it for the right reasons. What's most important is that she would've never even thought of giving up our child. She was ready to go to battle with me to protect him. She knew deep down that she didn't have to, but she would've.

"You're not going to be doing any of this without me, Ollie. I love you and I already love our perfect little boy, too."

"I'm so sorry, Luke. I knew it wouldn't matter to you, but the doctor had me so scared."

"I know Mom's friends with his wife, but I think you need a new doctor. I'm seriously pissed that he was still talking about options to you tonight. We need someone who's with us all the way."

"You're right. I'll start looking for a new one when we get home."

" _We'll_ start looking. Together. Always together."

"Always."

I lean over and kiss my wife for the first time in a long time. She deepens the kiss, and is practically tearing at my shirt when I pull back from her. "Ollie?"

"This pregnancy has made me so fucking horny. All I want to do every time I see you is tear your clothes off."

"It's okay for us to—"

"Yes. God yes."

"Then tear away."

Buttons are flying as she rips my shirt open, and I almost come with how hot it is. How hot _she_ is. I help her with my pants as she pulls her thong off and throws it to the side. I try to take her dress off, but she pushes my hands away. "Later. I need you now."

I laugh as I pull her on top of me on the bed. The lingerie is forgotten, and so is all the rest of the romance, as she rides me hard. I let her take her pleasure, and then I'm getting mine. I only take her two more times that night because the mother of my child needs her sleep, whether she wants it or not.

When we get back to the hotel in the morning, I move her bags into my room, and Ollie gives me my Valentine's Day presents. And I know that she meant it when she said that she didn't doubt me. There's a baseball cap, t-shirt, and hoodie that all have an "F. D." on the front inside a shield like Superman, and say "Best Future Dad Ever" on the back. She also got me another signed hockey stick for the collection that's growing in my home office.

I take out the box I bought Thursday. We weren't talking, but I knew I wanted it for her. She opens the box and starts crying. "Luke, you got this for me even though you were mad at me?"

"Yeah. We're going to get mad at each other. It happens. But you're my baby's mom, no matter what."

I help her put on the necklace, which is silver and has a mother and child reaching for each other, with a ruby heart below them. "I love it, Luke. Thank you."

"No. Thank you. For carrying my child and protecting him, even when you thought you might need to protect him from me."

"I never really thought that."

"I know. Just another thing for me to thank you for."

I take her into the Disneyland for a Dole Whip because she says she really wants one. We browse the shops at both parks and buy pretty much every baby item we see. When it's time for her to start getting ready for the wedding, I kiss her softly and remind her that I'll always love her. Because I will.

# Chapter 10

Miles

This is it. The day I've wanted and hoped for since I was eighteen. Alex is about to walk down the aisle and become my wife. At Disneyland. The only place that would've been better is Disney _World_ , but the travel time would've eaten up too much of our time. This is the first place we spent time at as a real couple, so it's a great substitute.

Alex has been with my mom and Rose all day, while I've been hanging out with my brother, Matt, and his friends Aiden and Nate. None of them are even close to having a steady girlfriend so it worked out perfectly for me. We rode all the roller coasters multiple times. The only thing that would've made the day better would've been if I could've woken up with Alex by my side and spent the day with her. She insisted on being traditional, though, and as history has shown, I'll do pretty much anything for her.

I'm standing at the entrance to Sleeping Beauty's Castle with Matt, Aiden, Nate, Zane Wilson, and the Griffin brothers beside me when Cinderella's Coach pulls up. The door doesn't open, and all I can see is Rose. Yasmin, Chloe, Candi, Olivia, Quinn, Erika, and Sam walk down the aisle in their dark turquoise beaded gowns first. The coach door opens and Maggie, my Mom and my Gram help Hope, Erin, and Dave out. The girls flank Dave and start down the aisle, tossing white rose petals in the air. We're all laughing at how cute they are. But then things turn serious, for me at least.

Rose gets out of the coach and walks down the aisle, then Gary helps Alex out. She's so beautiful that I almost fall to my knees right then and there. Her wedding dress is sheer with lace over her shoulders and breasts. It has a full beaded skirt that skims the ground. She has a tiara on with a long veil attached. Her bouquet is white roses tied with thick turquoise ribbon.

She takes Gary's arm on one side and Mom's on the other. My Gram and Maggie walk beside them. This is what she wanted, both her family, and mine, because they've all been an important part of her life, and are perfect stand-ins for her parents.

We smile at each other as she walks to me. I want to rush over to her, but I don't. I know she'll want me to wait for her. I'd wait forever for her if that's what she needed. Thankfully, she's by my side in less than a minute. Alex give her bouquet to Rose, and then I take her hands in mine.

We chose traditional vows, but also wanted to say one thing to each other that expresses how we feel about each other. "I've always felt free to be happy when I'm with you. Both when I was younger and now. Thank you for that," she tells me, as she tears up.

"I'm much more me when I am with you. You set me free."

We both have tears falling down our cheeks as we're pronounced man and wife. I'm not ashamed. Because real men _do_ cry. I kiss her when I'm told I can, pouring all my love and gratitude into that press of lips. I feel it right back from her.

We break apart because we know we have to, but we don't let go of each other. Everyone's clapping, and we turn to smile at them before heading through the castle to the other side. The tables are all set up next to her ride, and I'm glad I have at least a couple small surprises for her. After we pose for pictures with everyone, I tell them that we need to go for a quick ride, but we'll be back soon.

"We get to go in our own boat?" Alex asks, her eyes lighting up.

"Yeah. I wanted to do something else, but I couldn't."

"This is perfect."

We get into our boat and she holds my arm tight as we hear the music. It's so freaking cute how excited she gets. She's only been on this ride around a thousand times. This is definitely the best time, though. Because I can kiss her freely. Which I do. We pause so she can look at those crazy dolls every once in a while, but we get plenty of kissing in. The ride's over too soon, and I help her out of the boat.

We rejoin everyone and go to sit at our little table for two. Alex gasps when she sees the balloon with the message attached to it, just like in her high school. I called her old school and made a donation in exchange for an authentic one. I wrote the same thing I said to her at the altar on the paper. I also got her a big heart full of chocolates, and a little cheap necklace like she described to me. That was probably the hardest thing to find, but I did it.

"It's perfect, Miles. All of it is perfect. Thank you."

"I'd do anything for you, Xandy. I want you to know that," I tell her as I put the necklace on her.

Minnie and Mickey make an appearance during dinner, which thrills the kids. And us. Who am I kidding? We love taking wedding pictures with them. We cut the beautiful Disney themed cake and feed it to each other before hitting the dance floor. We share our first dance to "You Are in Love" by Taylor Swift. After, Alex dances with Gary and her uncles, and then it's my turn with my Mom.

"I'm so happy for you, Miles."

"Thanks, Mom. I'm happy, too. I'd be happier if you stopped ignoring John."

"Miles!"

"What? He likes you. And I think you like him. You need to go for it."

"He _is_ nice."

"And you both live in Chicago."

The song ends and before she can stop me, I walk over and hand her off to John. "Thanks, Miles."

"Just treat her well, and we'll be good."

"Not a problem."

"That was sweet of you, King," my wife tells me when I have her back in my arms.

"They'd be good together, Xandy. Not as good as us, of course."

"Of course."

"I love you, Mr. Corrigan."

"And I love you, Mrs. Corrigan."

We eat our cake and dance some more. Alex tosses her bouquet, and we're all a little shocked when Stella catches it. Aiden catches the garter, but after a glance at Ellie, opts to put it on Stella's arm and not her thigh. Smart man. We make our getaway soon after, and I'm surprised when Alex steers me away from the front of the park.

"Where are we going?"

"Our room."

"Is that way," I say pointing behind us.

"Not tonight."

I let her lead me to New Orleans Square, but stop her as she starts to climb upstairs. "We can't go up there. Someone already has the room. I tried to get them to give it to me, but they wouldn't. I'm sorry."

"They wouldn't give it to you, because they'd already given it to me."

"What?"

"I bought the room from them. They told me someone else called after. I figured it was you, especially when you came to me after and asked to change our wedding day."

"Wow."

"I would've told you, but I was a little nervous. I knew you'd really wanted this room the first time we were here and I was happy to get it for tonight. But then, when I knew you'd tried, I felt bad for taking it from you."

"You didn't take it, you're sharing it with me. I kind of like that you outsmarted me and got it first."

"Yeah? So I don't have to do anything else?" she asks as she leans towards me on the stairs.

"Oh, did you have something else you wanted to do?" I ask, leaning the rest of the way so that our lips are almost touching.

"I was thinking of doing you, actually."

"Well, that's definitely going to happen."

I close the distance and kiss her hard as I pick her up to carry her the last few steps. I walk inside the bedroom and stand her in front of the bed. We have to get this dress off of her before we do anything else.

She reaches behind her to undo the button in the middle of her shoulders. I reach over and push it off until the material is gathered at her waist. She's braless and I almost come at the sight of her naked breasts above her bunched up dress, while her veil still hangs down her back. I unzip her skirt and hold it as she steps out. A garter belt and stockings are all that's under there, and I think she's trying to kill me.

"You have too many clothes on, King."

I lay her dress on the bench at the end of the bed and reach up to take off her crown and veil. "You're up first. So my clothes can stay on."

"I feel like I should protest the fact that you're not giving me a choice, but since I know I'm going to love whatever you have planned for me, I won't."

"You will," I assure her as I move her to the edge of the canopy bed.

I move the ottoman over and spread her legs for me, placing her hands behind her. She knows she needs to leave them there. I decide to leave the belt on. Seeing it frame her lips and pussy makes me want to beg her to wear one every day. I'll ask her later. Right now I have a mission to accomplish.

I lean over and touch the tip of my tongue to her. She jerks back as I smile. I continue to tease her with tiny licks and barely there kisses until she's moving her hips forward, begging me with her body for more. She hasn't begged me with her mouth yet, even though she knows she has to if she wants more. She gives in more often than not, but I can see tonight is going to be a "not."

Maybe she thinks that since it's our wedding night, I should let go of my dominant tendencies. She's probably right, but knowing that she's officially mine is bringing out even more of my alpha nature than usual. I _need_ her to beg. At least this time. So I continue torturing us both for several more minutes.

"Miles, please. You win. Please."

Her words jar me even though I was waiting for them, and I sit back to look up at her, feeling like the ass that I am. "I'm sorry. I shouldn't have made you do that tonight. I knew I shouldn't, but..."

"You needed me to beg. I know. It's okay. Just this once tonight though, okay?"

I nod, and devour her the way she wants me to. I take longer licks, include some teeth when I kiss her, and suck hard. I also add my fingers to the mix, stroking her in the way I know she loves. When I glance up, she's pinching her nipples with her head thrown back. I suck her hard, while flicking my tongue out over her clit until she screams. I continue to lick her lightly until she stops fucking my face, and then I stand.

"You get a few minutes to rest while I get the tub ready for us."

"Yes, please. And thank you."

"Anytime, Xandy. Anytime."

I get the Jacuzzi going and undress. She comes up behind me and hugs me from behind. "I love this bathtub."

It is pretty spectacular. Set into an alcove, the walls glow with starlight made by technology, and there's even a stained glass window. I turn around to pick her up and lift her into the water. I climb between the two pillars to join her in the bubbling water, but she stops me.

"Sit on the ledge, King. It's my turn."

No sane man says no to a blow job from his hot wife. And I like to think that I'm sane, so I do as she asks. Watching her suck me into that luscious mouth of hers while water is bubbling over her breasts is one of the most erotic things I've ever seen in my life. I'd like to say I lasted a little while, but I was so keyed up already that it only took a couple minutes. I more than made up for it later.

# Chapter 11

Ryan

We're heading to the private patio of the Dream Suite Alex and Miles slept in last night. Or didn't sleep in. I really can't think about that, though. She may be married, but she's still my niece. They're hosting us for an early breakfast before the parks open. I'm anxious to see my brothers and find out how their plans went.

We focused on the wedding and having fun, so we didn't talk much last night. Olivia sat on Luke's lap for most of the night, so it looks like they'll be okay. And everyone else looked happy too. I still want details about everyone's plans, though.

"Rides?" Erin asks me.

"Breakfast first, Eri. Then rides."

"Okey-dokey."

I look at Chloe and she shrugs. I'm pretty sure neither one of us has ever said that before, but whatever. I can go with the flow. Sometimes.

We walk into the courtyard to see a full buffet set up. Stella and Darcy are there, and we greet them warmly. Chloe thanked them both over and over again last night, but she does it again. I thank them again, too.

"Thanks," Erin says to them both.

"What are you thanking us for, Erin?" Stella asks, kneeling down next to her.

"You made Mommy and Daddy happy."

"They sure did," I agree.

"It was our pleasure," Darcy tells us all.

Chloe gives them all the details about the dresses and fabrics she chose while I get my little love some Mickey waffles and eggs. I sit her in one of the high chairs at the table, and help her eat. She even feeds me a bite or two. If anyone would've told me a few years ago that I'd be married to the love of my life with a beautiful daughter, I'd have laughed at them. I thought Chloe and I were over. Now I can't imagine ever trying to live without her again. I know I couldn't.

"Go and grab yourself something, Ry," Chloe tells me as she leans over to kiss my cheek.

"Eri's sharing with me, I'm good."

"Daddy, get more waffles, please."

"Sure thing, sweetie."

Chloe just shakes her head as I grab another small plate for my little girl. She smiles at me when she sees I brought a big plate for us, too. "Aww, we're sharing too?"

"No. Daddy shares with me."

This happens sometimes. Erin wants me all to herself. She loves Chloe, but she's definitely a daddy's girl. Which is more than fine with me. Except when she's being mean to her mom.

"Apologize to Mommy for being a brat. I can share with both of you."

"Sorry Mommy. I love you. Lots and lots. I share with you, too," she says, holding out a piece of a waffle.

Chloe takes it and pops it in her mouth. "Thanks. I love you too, Eri."

Zack and Ainsley Taylor arrive with Matt Corrigan and his friends, Aiden and Nate, a few minutes later. And then Scott, Yasmin, and Dave come through the door. They greet everyone, but I wave them over. I really want to know how their talk went.

* * *

Scott

I walk into the after wedding breakfast happier than I've been in weeks because my wife is happy. You know how they say "Happy Wife, Happy Life?" Well, it's true. At least in my case. Nothing makes me happier than seeing Yas smile.

We greet Ainsley, Zack, and the guys from Corrigan before Ry calls us over. I know he's anxious to hear how things went. We didn't get to talk much last night. I assured him things were good, but I know he wants details.

"Look Davey, Daddy's sharing with me and Mommy," Erin says as we walk up.

"I want to share with Mommy," my boy tells her.

Of course he does. He loves us both, but Yas is definitely his favorite. I am more than okay with that since she's my favorite person in the world, too. Chloe just looks at me and shakes her head. We're used to being second.

"Daddy can share with me, too," Yas says.

"But Mommy."

"Or I'll just share with Daddy."

"Fine. But you love me best?"

"Nope. I love you both best. I tell you that all the time, so you know that. Why are you being so mean to your Daddy?"

"I love Daddy. You're prettier, though. And you're soft when you cuddle me."

"I totally agree with everything you just said, Buddy."

"You're my best friend, Daddy. Okay?"

"Yeah. That's always okay."

He reaches out and takes my hand, before I can let the tears that have gathered in my eyes fall. "Let's get food for Mommy."

We load our plates, and I carry them as Dave runs ahead and lifts his arms to Yas. She puts him in his high chair, and I take the seat next to her. She gives me a nice, long kiss before turning and kissing our little boy on the cheek.

"Since my brother's been smiling since yesterday, I'm guessing you're happy about the new job."

"I am. It really is my dream come true."

"That's my plan. To make all your dreams come true."

"You do."

"How times change," my dad says as he walks up. "I can remember when your mother used to worry that none of her boys would settle down. And now all of you have."

"We had to find the right women," I tell him. "And we did."

"Yes. I couldn't ask for better daughter-in-laws."

He smiles as he walks back over to join our mom, who's talking to Jane and Jessica Corrigan. Jessica and my good friend, John, were getting pretty cozy last night. I watch as he walks in and puts an arm around her waist as he kisses her cheek.

"Your dad and Jessica, huh?" I ask Chloe.

"They'll be good for each other," she says in reply.

I open my mouth to say more when another group enters the courtyard. Owen, Candi, and Hope are here, along with Tegan, Faith, Gavin, Isabelle, Audrey, and Reina. They all spread out, with my brother and his family making their way over to our table.

* * *

Owen

"Whatcha doin'?" Hope asks my niece and nephew when we walk over to their table.

"I'm sharing with Daddy," Erin tells her.

"And I'm sharing with Mommy," Dave says.

"I'll share with my Mommy _and_ my Daddy," Hope replies.

God love my little girl. I smirk at my brothers, letting them know I've won. Hope doesn't have a favorite with me and Candi. She wants us both. All the time.

"I'll get our food, ladies. Please have a seat."

Candi rolls her eyes at me while Hope giggles. My brothers make gagging noises. Jealousy looks great on both of them. I whistle as I walk away to grab the plates.

"You two seem like you had a nice couple of nights," Scott tells me with a smirk when I get back with the food.

Hope answers before I can. "Mommy and Daddy are designing a new baby brother or sister for me. So I have to be a big girl and stay in my own room. Except for Sunday. Sunday is cuddle night."

"Wow. You two are good," Chloe tells us with a look of awe on her face.

Candi shrugs. "She asked for a baby. Who are we to deny our beautiful daughter?"

"Nice. Real nice, bro," Ryan tells me, bumping fists with me across the table.

"Can we have a baby, too, Mommy?" Dave asks Yasmin.

"Umm...maybe when you're a little bigger, like Hope."

"Yep. 'cuz you can't be too scared to sleep alone while your mommy and daddy design it. But if you do get scared, it's okay. You just need to knock first before you interrupt the designing."

"You two need to write a parenting book, or at least a blog. This is just gold right here, "Yas tells us.

I just smile and kiss both of my girls. I know how lucky I am. I don't need anyone else to tell me. The happy couple walks into the courtyard before I can respond further. I'm grossed out because she's my niece, but I totally understand them showing up late for their own party.

* * *

Miles

We're almost the last to arrive at breakfast. I had to have my wife one last time in that suite. It definitely lived up to all the hype I associated with it. And Alex could never disappoint me.

Honestly, I begged Alex to skip the breakfast she planned, but I always knew I'd give in. As much as I want to be alone with her, I also want to keep celebrating our marriage with family and friends. Speaking of friends, Zane and Quinn just walked in with Landon.

"Hey guys," I tell them.

"Hi Miles," Quinn says as she comes over and hugs me.

She's one of my best friends, and Alex's too. In fact, she designed and made my wife's wedding dress. She didn't have time to make all of the bridesmaid dresses on the short notice everyone else had, which is what Stella took care of—she got several of every size and then helped adjust them as needed.

We owe so much to them, and all the other women from the Foundation. They've been so good to Alex, and to me, once they knew I loved her. Before that, I slept with a few of them. But it meant nothing to any of us. They're now some of my biggest fans and best allies.

"How many times did you ride Alex's ride, Miles?" Landon asks me. When we came here before, he refused to go on It's a Small World with us, saying it was annoying. I told him I'd go on my girl's favorite ride with her as many times as she wanted me to.

"Just once, Land. But I got to kiss her enough for her usual ten rides."

"What is it with grown-ups and kissing? It's just gross."

"It won't be in a couple of years. You'll be begging some smart girl to kiss you," Zack answers him.

"Smart? The guys at Dad's shop always tell me to find a hot girl."

"Smart girls are the hottest, dude. Trust me on that."

"Whatever. It's still gross."

He runs off to grab food, and we all talk for a little while longer. My mom comes over with John. I raise an eyebrow at her, and she smacks me on the arm. "Behave," she whispers to me.

"I think I need to say that to you. And John. I want to know his intentions," I lean down and whisper back.

She snorts, and then we both laugh. I'm happy for her. And I know she's happy for me. We've come a long way from the pain my father caused us both. It helps that we're surrounded by all the wonderful people who love and support us. Speaking of love and support, the couple who needed it most have just walked in.

* * *

Luke

I see everyone staring as Ollie and I walk in with Rose, Jade, and Ellie. We didn't explain anything to them last night because we wanted it to be all about Alex and Miles. We _did_ kiss and cuddle, so they should've been able to tell that we're okay. Better than okay, actually. Especially after we just took care of something important.

"Sorry we're late," Mallory Daniels says as she walks in behind us with her husband Jeff, Helen Wilson, and Cyndi Evans.

"And here we thought we'd take the 'last ones to arrive' title," I tell them with a smile.

"Not today, Luke," Mallory says. She's Quinn's mom and one of _my_ mom's best friends.

"I'm not going to beat around the bush," my dad says. "We all want to know what the story is with Olivia and the baby. It looks like everything's been worked out, but I want details."

Ollie and I look at each other and smile. "Let's sit down," she says.

"The baby is mine," I tell them. "Olivia's doctor—who we just fired—scared her into not telling me. He tried to convince her to end her pregnancy as well, but she refused. Deep down she knew that I would as well. Which is why she finally let me know."

"End the pregnancy? Why? Are you at risk, Olivia?" my mom asks her.

"No. But testing showed that our baby will more than likely be born with Down Syndrome."

No one says anything at first, so I speak again, and I know I sound angry. "Our son will be perfect. He _is_ perfect. No matter what."

"Of course he is, Luke. No one will ever convince me that any of my grandchildren aren't perfect," my mom tells us, and I see in her eyes that she means it.

"Have you told your parents yet, Olivia?" my dad asks.

"No. They terminated a pregnancy because of the same reason. That's why I knew there was a small chance for my—our—baby. But I could never do what they did. I love my son already. So very much. I know he'll probably need extra help with some things, but haven't we all at one time or another?"

"Yes, we have," Scott says. "And I'll help him understand computers. I'll even work on making one that's as easy for him to use as possible if he does have it. Ainsley and I have been talking about something like that already. To put into use at Opportunity Village."

"We have, and now we have an extra reason to start doing our research," Ainsley says.

"I can teach him how to build things," Ry tells us. "If he needs something different than what they sell in stores, I can make it myself. I probably should anyway, just like Scott and Ainsley."

"I already do art with the kids at OV. I can't wait to finger paint with your little guy," Owen tells us.

"We'll teach your son to play baseball, won't we Miles?" Landon asks him.

"Yeah. Totally."

"And I have football covered, of course," Zack says.

"Cooking's covered, too," Faith tells us as Gavin nods his agreement.

"We'll all do everything we can," Matt says.

"Yes, we will," Reina agrees. "The people in this room have so many different talents and so much love to give. Your little boy will have all of it at his disposal, just like his cousins."

I don't even try to hold back the tears, and neither does Ollie. "Thank you so much. All of you. I'm going to take you all up on your offers. But we also want our son to live as normal a life as possible. So we'll try the traditional things first, and then supplement them with whatever you can do for him. And us."

Everyone comes over and hugs us. I realize then that I have the best family ever. I'm including everyone in that title. Our friends are also are family, and we're all better people because of what they've brought into our lives. I can't wait for my son to meet them.

# About the Author

Crystal Perkins has always been a big reader, but she never thought she would write her own book, until she did. She lives in Las Vegas, where you can find her running author events and selling books at conventions when she isn't reading, buying too many Sherlock t-shirts online or finding a place to put all of her Pop! figurines. A mac and cheese connoisseur, she travels the country looking for the perfect version, while attending book conventions and signings as a cover for her research. The Griffin Brothers series are all International Best Sellers, and she's thankful to the readers who made that happen!

Find her here:

www.crystalperkinsauthor.com

facebook.com/crystalperkinsauthor

@wondermomlv

crystal@crystalperkinsauthor.com
