

Key West or bust:

A Modern Day

Bonni and Klide

Copyright © 2017 by T. L. Henry

All rights reserved. This book or any portion thereof may not be reproduced or used in any manner whatsoever without the express written permission of the author except for the use of brief quotations in a book review.

Printed in the United States of America

First printing, 2017

#ISBN-13:978-1521230657

Chapter 1

The alarm clock is buzz, buzz, buzzing, waking Bonni up at 5 a.m. She's got a big day ahead of her. Today's the day she has to pick up her boyfriend and lover, Klide, from the boy's home. It's also the day that she'll leave this hole in the wall town she's called home for the last 15 years of her young life.

She's young, but not stupid, she knows a dead-end town when she sees one. No one comes out of Hildebran, North Carolina and becomes someone famous. It's a town full of nobodies, doing nobody things. All a person will become-here is a two-pack a day smoker, an alcoholic, and abuser of their family while working at a nowhere job in a factory or a mill.

That describes her dad to a tee. His life got so miserable that his wife, Bonni's mom, left him to pursue a better life. Why she didn't take Bonni with her is a question Bonni would love for her to answer, but she doesn't know where she is. Her mom just up and left one day, leaving a note saying, "I'm tired of you, this town, and this life. Take care!" Her dad seemed not to care. He still had a female to take care of him... Bonni. Well... that ends today.

She hopped out of bed and went to the bathroom to get ready. She did everything as quietly as possible so not to awaken her monster from his slumber. Her dad will get up in an hour wanting his breakfast and packed lunch, but Bonni won't be there for him this day. She cooked his last egg and bologna sandwich yesterday. He'd have to fend for himself this morning.

After brushing her teeth, she washed her face and hair. She used the strawberry shampoo that Klide loves so much. She loved it when he'd pulled her close and buried his face and her hair, taking a long whiff. He'd wrap his arms around her and she could feel him relax as the tension left his body. She missed him so much.

Six months ago, he got caught stealing two packs of Ramen noodles and package of hot dogs from the local supermarket. The manager was a prick and called the cops on him. Then, his dad refused to bond him out, saying Klide was always stealing and skipping school, so the judge gave Klide six months at Black Mountains Boys Home. Six freaking months for trying to feed himself, where's the justice in that?

Klide's dad is a major alcoholic, just like Bonni's. His dad, too, worked at a local factory and hated his life. So, he'd beat Klide every time he got drunk and felt Klide, "deserved it" for some made-up reason. Klide got really tough from the beatings and he acted like it didn't bother him, but he knew, deep down, he wanted to kill his dad. He didn't though, because of Bonni. He knew if he did that, he'd never see Bonni again. Klide was a smart boy, although a very shy one.

Bonni met Klide in junior high. One day a Husky red-haired boy, named Junior, called himself "flirting" with Bonni by pinching her on the butt. Bonni turned on him and ordered him to stop. That just made Junior more brazen so he kept pinching her, getting his friends to laugh at his antics. That's when out of nowhere, Klide stepped between her and Junior. Klide put his hand on Junior's chest, telling him to leave her alone. Junior got mad and pushed Klide. Klide punched him in the nose, busting it, making him bleed. Junior got enraged and tried to charge at Klide, only to get kicked in the stomach for his troubles. As Junior knelt on the floor, gasping for breath, Klide leaned down and told Junior if he ever saw him bullying anyone else, he'd break his arms so he couldn't wipe his own butt anymore.

Bonni thought that was the craziest, boldest thing she'd ever seen anyone do before. But seeing Klide standing there as her protector... Bonni was smitten.

Every day after school, Bonni awaited Klide's exit so they could walk home together. For the past two years they were an item and in love. Everyone knew it and left the love birds alone, even Junior.

Chapter 2

Bonni slipped out of the house as quietly as possible. She walked down the block to Mrs. Abernathy's house. Each week she cleaned for Mrs. Abernathy and did all sorts of odd jobs to earn her enough money for school clothes and such.

Bonni's dad was such a drunken lush, that he'd have his paycheck spent by Monday, and he never had enough left over for Bonni a new dress or pair of shoes. She learned early to support herself.

She wasn't no angel, though. Bonni stole as much as she paid for. Klide had taught her well. That's why it was a shock that he got caught at the supermarket.

The butcher in the back of the store had a two-way mirror that ran the length of meat section. The butcher seen Klide stick the hot dogs in his pants and alerted the manager. The manager locked the electronic doors on Klide before he could get out. The police station was only a block away from the store, so Klide didn't stand a chance.

Today, Bonni was going to Mrs. A's house for another reason... to borrow her old Ford Falcon to pick up Klide.

Mrs. A loved Bonni like her own child. She thought she knew all about Bonni and Klide's predicament concerning their fathers. Klide's dad was just as much a drunk and abuser as Bonni's. Where Klide got beatings, Bonni got raped. No one knew that secret but Bonni and her old man... she had plans for him though.

Mrs. A was close to 70-years old and lived in a huge two-story Victorian home close to the local library. She had retired as a high school teacher shortly after her husband retired from the local paper mill. After only a few months into their retirement Mr. A had a massive stroke and died, leaving Mrs. A. all alone. Her two sons were off living their own lives in different states and very rarely visited. Bonni and sometimes Klide, would keep her company on lonely evenings while Mrs. A. told them stories of her glory days.

Bonni loved her like a mother and she hated to leave her, but she knew her future wasn't in North Carolina. She saw her and Klide in Hollywood, making millions as movie stars. Klide had the Brad Pitt looks with big brown eyes that'd melt a girl's heart and the face that'd sell tickets to the world.

Bonni was beautiful, too. She was told many times that she should be a model or an actress. There were times that she and Klide would watch a movie together and act out the parts to see if they could really act. To their surprise... they weren't half bad. Which is why they made plans for their getaway. Today was the day!

Chapter 3

Five a.m. in the boy's home is no place to wake up. It's loud, smelly, and makes Klide want to kill everybody around him. He looks around at the juvenile raffle he's had to live in for the last six months; kids of every sort were ass-grabbing and horse-playing up and down the walkways around the double bunk beds. Klide's bed shook from an impact of two black kids and they, instantly, stopped in their tracks and looked at Klide, wide-eyed and expectant of the look they didn't want to get. Klide leered at them and shook his head as if he couldn't believe his eyes. Then, he smiled and said, "see ya bitches!!!"

Everybody erupted into cheers and youthful play as street-hood miscreants piled onto Klide. These kids were kids who were, "put up in the hills because you keep getting into trouble," kind of kids. Klide punched and kicked his way out from under the pile, with one kid in a headlock. That's when the day Warden, Mr. Fletcher, walked into the dorm and everybody got quiet.

"So... Mr. Walker, you're leaving us, are ya?" He stated more than he asked.

Klide looked up at him as he let the boy's head go. "Yes sir!" was all he replied.

"Well... then you better get your gear. And everybody else... get ready for morning drills!" he yelled.

Kids scrambled to and from while still trying to congratulate Klide. Mr. Fletcher had a stern face as he left the dorm, but he'd really be missing Klide Walker. He hadn't seen too many kids come through there, who could scare him, but Klide was one of them. He looked at you with cold, calculating eyes and it'd make you feel as if he'd seen your soul and he knew you were scared. Yeah... he was glad to see this kid go. He couldn't count how many times he's had to pull Klide off of some dumb poor kid who thought they could kick Klide's ass, but so far Klide was 11 and 0; eleven fights won and zero losses. Mr. Fletcher didn't know who taught this kid his skills, but he sure was impressed. Impressed enough, to not want to have a go with him.

Klide gathered up the small canvas carry-all bag that's given to each boy upon arrival. He's had the bag packed for days anticipating this day. Klide only possessed a few items, but what was important to him the most was his letters and photos of his best friend and soul-mate, Bonni. She was coming to get him soon and he'd never see this Mountain Reformatory ever again. Not if he could help it.

After his morning ritual of brushing his teeth, washing his face and brushing his hair, Klide grabbed his bag and went to the front office to retrieve his meager weekly pay he was owed for the work he was forced to do for pennies on the dollar.

The boy's home had a contract with the state which put the boys to work when they weren't in school. They cleaned up the sides of the roads, fence lines, overhanging trees, and helped out if there was a forest fire. The heads of state looked at it as a way to teach the boys life skills. The boys thought of it as slave labor.

Klide collected his whopping $12.47, then, strolled to the chow-hall for one last breakfast. One thing the state did right was fed them a good breakfast. That's the only thing Klide would miss... the food. He grew up eating sparingly due to his dad's drinking, so he valued a good meal whenever he could get one.

Upon entering the chow-hall all eyes were on Klide! That's just how it was when someone was getting freed; everyone knew their day was coming, but they were getting one last envious look at you before you disappeared. Some, envied Klide... some, couldn't wait for him to go so they could step in and fill in his shoes as the alpha male of the Black Mountain Boys Home.

Klide sat in his usual seat after he got his breakfast. Kids, steadily, walked by and told him to, "take it easy!" or "don't come back, man." Klide would shake his head and say, "I'm going to be to famous to come back. You'll see!"

Eight a.m. was coming soon.

Chapter 4

Bonni drove the car just like Klide taught her... casually, "As if you've been doing it your whole life." She was a vet, now. She could even drive with her knees, but she wasn't doing that this morning. She had a perma-grin plastered on her face and she was humming a tune of happiness knowing she was fixin' to see her beau.

Mrs. A. cried when she gave Bonni the keys to her car. "You, two, be careful please. There's a big old world out there and it will swallow you up if you ain't careful." She said, as she pushed Bonni from their hug, holding her out at arm's length to look at her one last time.

"We'll be careful. I promise." replied a teary Bonni.

Mrs. A. handed her an envelope containing $500 in cash. Bonni cried even harder as she hugged the old woman, again, before leaving the house. She'd missed the woman who was the closest thing to a real mother the girl never had. But... Klide was Bonni's life and he needed her, so she was on her way to get him.

When she pulled the car into the little gravel driveway, Klide was leaning against a wooden rail waiting and smiling. She couldn't stop the car or put it in park fast enough. Once stopped, she leaped out of the car and into Klide's arms. They kissed and hugged and wiped each other tears, while trying to breathe and laugh at the same time.

"Come on, Baby before they change their mind and keep me here," joked Klide. "I'll drive from here." He stated as Bonni jumped into the open driver's side door and slid over a bit for him to get in.

"Where are we going, Klide?" asked an excited, very happy Bonni.

"First stop... the rest area down the road. I need some of you, fast." He replied, leaning over so Bonni could plant another kiss on his lips.

"Well, hurry up then... a girl's horny, too." She teased as she grabbed his crotch and ran her tongue down his ear to his neck.

"Don't make me wreck Mrs. A.'s car, you know she loves this piece of junk." He teasingly admonished as he, also, moaned from Bonni's attention.

"You drive... I'll shift gears!" She said as she leaned over into Klide's lap and unbuttoned his pants.

Klide drove as careful as he could as Bonni did her thing on him. It didn't last long before she was done.

Klide said, "Good God almighty, I've missed you, Bonni."

"I know, right! I'm ready for mine, too, so you need to drive faster, Sweetie." She said as she kissed his neck, teasing him some more.

"Any faster and we'll fly off the side of this mountain." he laughed.

"We'll be flying alright, but it won't be because we drove off the side of this mountain. Still leaving, ain't we?" she asked.

"Nothing in the world will keep us in that hick town, any longer, Baby. Our future begins today." He stated with excitement in his voice.

"Good! I didn't want that place to corrupt your mind." she said, meaning the boys home.

"Shit! You're all I need to corrupt me, Baby!" he said with a grin.

"You got that right!" she returned. "Look"... she pointed up ahead." There's the rest area. Park away from everyone so we can have some privacy.

"I know! I know!" He lovingly said as he drove the Ford Falcon to a secured spot. Once parked, it didn't take long for the windows to get fogged up from all the heavy breathing.

Chapter 5

Thirty minutes later, and satisfied for the moment, Klide drove onward towards Hildebran.

He had enjoyed a life of loneliness until he met Bonni. He had seen her, numerous times, throughout school, but he was too shy to talk to her. Seeing Junior, touch her, pissed him off to know end. He knew he had to intervene or the bully would keep at her, so he did what he had to do. When he put the fool on the ground and turned to look at her... He knew his world was changed forever. Her beautiful blue eyes looked at him as if he were the only boy in school. He felt ashamed at first, for being so brutal in front of her, but all of that faded away when she met him after school. They came together like soul-mates should.

Their love bloomed, quickly, and Klide was actually grateful, now, for Junior grabbing her butt. He wasn't wrong for wanting to grab it... Bonni was the finest girl in school. She had an ass you just wanted to take a bite out of. And, she didn't even realize how beautiful she was. She wore zero makeup because she couldn't afford it, but she didn't need it. She had that God-given beauty that radiated before the whole world. Klide fell head over heels in love in just a few moments with her.

The past couple of years their love grew into a very serious relationship. He was willing to lay down and die for her if he ever needed to. She's his everything. His all. His heart. His soul. His breath. Their plans were to be together, forever, as one.

They planned to go to Hollywood to become movie stars, or models, whatever they could be because they knew they were headed for greatness. Klide could feel it in his bones. The only skills he possessed were fighting, stealing, and recently learned... hot wiring cars. He knew he'd need that skill for their trip.

He learned how to fight from his dad's drinking buddy, an ex-Green Beret who'd get drunk and use Klide as his punching bag. When Klide started countering his moves, and returning the punches, the man saw enough potential to keep on training Klide. Now... Klide could kick the guy's ass without breaking a sweat. He wanted so badly to use his skills on his own dad, but most of all, Bonni's.

Klide new Bonni was having trouble at home, so, one night he asked her what they were. She cried as she confessed to him that her father had been raping her since she was seven years old... From the age that she was when her mom had left him. Klide wanted to kill her dad, but Bonni wouldn't let him. She said that if he did kill her father, she'd never get to see him again. He'd be put in prison, forever. And for what? Killing a piece of shit, no account drunkard that'll die of a liver failure or a heart attack, anyway? Nah! They had other plans made up for him.

Klide's dad was just as bad, up until Klide beat his ass. Klide wore bruises and busted lips and eyes for years, due to his dad's drunken rages. They had plans for him, too, but first things first.

Chapter 6

Back in Hildebran, Bonni asked Klide what was the next step in their journey.

"We gotta get our stash and then set things right. You got your bag packed, Baby?" he asked.

"My bags have been packed ever since you left me six months ago." she replied.

"I'm sorry I got caught, Bonni. How was I to know the butcher was back there?" he asked, ashamed.

"Don't be sorry, Klide. You were just trying to eat. Screw that judge, screw that manager and screw your dad for putting you away over some damned hot dogs. Let's make them pay for fucking with us." she said defiantly. She leaned her head onto his shoulder as he drove through town.

"Well... my plans aren't to screw them." he said, with a chuckle. "Bet they'll wish they never met Klide Walker, I can tell you that!" he exclaimed.

"Bonni Harris, neither." She added as they pulled into Klide's driveway.

"I'll be back in a second, keep the car running, Sugar." He gave her a kiss as he got out of the car and went into the dilapidated house he's called home for his young, 16 years.

Bonni watched him go inside and she thought about the butterfly feelings she had in her belly. She was ever so ready to start up her life with Klide, it wasn't funny. She danced in her seat and stifled a yell of glee. She's been awaiting this day for a mighty long time. She said to herself, "Let's get famous, Baby!" And giggled like a little girl.

Having had endured years of her father's sexual habits, Bonni became so bitter inside that she tricked her emotions to change at will. During her father's assaults, she'd go into a character and become someone else; another person who likes the sex, or even her mother. The night she called her dad by name, in the heat of his passion, he stopped and looked into her eyes, leering.

"What did you say?" he asked, menacingly. For the hell of it, she did it again and again, pressing herself against him and kissing him. He pushed her away and slapped her so hard she thought she'd cry. He got up and told her to get back to her room. She climbed out of the bed, still in her mom character, and lazily sashayed her lean 10-year-old body out of his room. Since then, he only came and got her when he was in a mean drunken mood. Those times, she knew not to talk back or he'd beat her and make the sex more painful. Her father could be very cruel. She just bided her time.

Chapter 7

Inside the house, Klide went to his dad's room and took the gun his father had under the mattress of his bed. A box of 9 mm bullets was in the nightstand drawer. He took them, too. Next, he took the duffel bag from his own closet and packed it full of his clothes and a few hygiene items. When he was done taking the things he thought he'd need, he stood in the house's doorway and looked back at the wreck of a room. A smile played on his lips as he thought of his future... near distant future.

"Damn, this place stinks!" He blurted out to no one. He turned and left the house that held bad memories handed down to him by a madman.

In the car, he said, "I got his gun and some ammo. Your dad's gonna hate it that we gotta take his, too." He burst out laughing at his own joke. Bonni did, too.

"They won't miss it! I guarantee it!" Bonni replied, laughing along with Klide's inside joke.

Bonni slid over to sit next to Klide as he drove them away from his house. "What are we gonna do about Mrs. A's car? Keep it?" she asked.

"Nah... we'll take something else when we leave. She's been too good to us to do her like that. We'll take my dad's truck, then get something better, later. Do you need to go by your place for anything?"

"Nah, I stole everything I'm taking from the house, this morning. Dad's gun and ammo are in my bag already."

"Good... we need to get a motel. I'm ready for you some more." He said, leaning over for another kiss and feel.

When they separated Bonni said, "Let's go Baby!"

Klide drove them to Lowman's Motel; a rundown, sleazebag joint that rented out rooms, cheaply. In the room, they didn't waste time on any foreplay.

Afterwards, Bonni grabbed her bag and took out the gun she stole from her dad.

"I can't wait to shoot it, again." She said, holding the chrome 38 Revolver in her hands caressingly, admiring it.

"Have you been practicing like I showed you?" asked Klide still lying under the covers on the bed.

"Once a week, Baby. I'm way better than before you left. Pow! Pow! She mimed holding the gun out with both hands at arm's-length, posing in the mirror, naked.

"Damn, that's sexy. Get over here and give me some more lovin'. I'm ready, again." he said with a smile.

"You are, are ya?" as she hopped onto the bed and tossed the gun aside.

Chapter 8

They hung out at Lowman's until they were certain both of their dads were home. They showered and dressed, and drove to Bonni's house, first.

Upon entering the home, Bonni's dad was sitting on the sofa watching TV and drinking a beer. He didn't look happy seeing Klide follow his daughter into the house.

"Well, well, well... if it ain't the jailbird. Or are you a little Princess since your stay in..." Was all he got out of his mouth when Klide walked over and kicked him dead in the face. His head snapped backwards and blood flew from his nose.

Like two people who's practiced it time and again, Bonni and Klide aimed their cocked and loaded guns at her dad.

Bonni's old man had both hands on his face, trying to blink away the tears that came with a broken nose.

"Wha.......?" Was all he got out as Klide gripped him up by his hair and said, "Let's see that bedroom you love so much!" As he shook him by the hair, making him squeal.

"Please.... Klide?... What are...?" And Klide hit him in the head with the side of the 9 mm, busting open a 3-inch gash.

"Don't hurt him, Klide." Admonished Bonni as she followed Klide towards the master bedroom. In the room, Klide asked Bonni, "You got your bag, Baby?"

"You know it, Sweetie." She replied, as she walked around Klide, still aiming her dads gun at her father.

"Take your clothes off, you piece of shit." She ordered as she set the bag on his nightstand. She tucked the gun in her waistband, then opened the bag.

"What are you gonna do, Bonn ...? Please... Please... I'm sorry. I'll never do it again. I prom..." Just then, Klide hit him, again, with the gun, knocking him onto the bed. He laid there, moaning. Bonni pulled out a new role of gray duct tape and a handful of torn strips of sheet.

She took pride in her handiwork of sheet stripping. They were the same sheets her father had last raped her on. She knew she'd get a kick out of using them on dear old dad. She cut a six-inch strip of tape and leaned down and slapped it into place on her moaning, and bleeding, father's mouth. His eyes opened and he tried to shriek but could only "mmm...mmm...mmm."

"Take... your... fucking...clothes off, or I'll shoot you dead." said a stone cold Klide.

He nodded at Klide and began to undress. When he was totally naked, Bonni ordered, "lay on your back with your arms and legs spread to each corner."

He didn't hesitate, hoping his daughter and her rogue boyfriend would let him live.

Once spread-eagled, Bonni began to tie his hands first, and then his feet to the four-wooden post of the bed. When she was finished, Klide asked, "You want me to stick around?"

"I've got this from here, Babe." And she walked over to Klide and kissed him hard on the mouth. Klide took a hold of her by her ass before he broke the kiss.

"I'll wait in the car." He said, and he turned and walked out of the room.

Bonni turned to her father and said, "Well dad... It's time for us to part ways." She walked to the bag and pulled out a serrated steak knife. Her dad's eyes got as big as saucers as he watched Bonni look at the blade and, then at him. She smiled.

Bonni climbed up onto the bed and straddled her father. She teased him by grinding her crotch against his limp shriveled penis. "Awww... What's the matter? You can't get it up, daddy-poo?"

She stopped grinding and sat up. She put the tip of the blade against his right shoulder, where the collarbone meets, and began carving lines into his skin. He bucked and jerked as she cut again and again.

"That's the spirit, honey." She said in her mother-voice that he hated so much. "Give it to mama, Baby!" She mimicked as she cut her last few lines. When she finished she got up off the bed and inspected her handiwork.

"Not too bad, dad, if I do say so myself." She said with a twinkle in her eye.

Her dad looked down at himself, still whimpering and trying to talk, but only managing the same nasally, "mmm....mmm...mmm!" He couldn't read what it said, but he was praying to God that that was the worst of it. Wide-eyed with terror he looked at his daughter with pleading eyes.

"That oughta let the cops know what kind of monster you were, daddy. Now... how about a parting gift?" She leaned over the bed and took his penis and testicles in her hand. She, then, took the steak knife and sawed his genitals completely off. Her father bucked and squirmed and screamed through his nose as Bonni straightened up and looked at him. "Here you go, pops. You can keep these... I don't need 'em," and tossed them onto his already bloody chest for him to gaze at as he dies. She dropped the knife onto the floor and turned and walked away.

The message on his chest read: I RAPED MY LITTLE GIRL!

Chapter 9

After cleaning herself up in the bathroom, she walked out of the house smiling. She got into the Falcon and scooted next to Klide.

"Piece of cake. The cops will love it when they see it." she said with a laugh.

"I'd sure loved to have seen it," replied Klide.

"The look on his face was priceless. What are we gonna do to your dad?" She asked, as he crunk up the car and drove towards his home.

"I'm not sure, yet. I'll probably just shoot him, but I'd love to make him beg."

"Whatever you choose, I'm with you," she added.

He pulled into the driveway next to his dad's truck. "Get our stuff into the truck. I'll be back in a minute, B." he said, as he got out of the car.

Klide walked through the front door and there was his dad... sitting exactly in the same place as Bonni's dad--- in front of the TV, except he was drinking liquor out of the glass.

"Huh... they let you out, or you escape?" was the greeting Klide received.

"They let me out long enough to do this..." and Klide raised his right arm, holding his dad's gun. Klide fired one shot, right into his father's chest. The impact hit him like a thunderbolt, knocking the wind out of him. He looked down at himself and saw blood pouring out of his chest. He tried to stop the blood with his hands. He looked up at Klide with question of wonderment on his face. Then, he relaxed in his seat and he slumped downward as his lungs expelled the last of its air.

"Rot in hell, you piece of shit!" Klide said, and turned and walked out.

Back in the truck, Klide gave Bonni a long hot kiss before whopping out loud, "Hell Yeah! You ready, Baby?"

"I'm ready when you are, Sweetie." she answered.

Klide crunk up his dad's truck and left his home. He was feeling elated, excited, and powerful for having liberated himself from the grasps of his father. He gripped the steering wheel and began laughing. It became contagious that Bonni joined in. She slid next to him and put her hand on his thigh. "Where to, madam?" he asked Bonni.

"Let's go to Florida, first. I want to see Margaritaville in Key West. We got our whole lives to get to Hollywood." she replied.

"Key West, Florida... here we come!" he said with enthusiasm. "Searching for my... lost shaker of salt..." They sang together, laughing.

Chapter 10

On a back road called Highway 321, Klide let Bonni drive. She was wanting her license and felt she needed more practice. When they got to I-95 Klide took over. He drove them southward until he needed to refill the truck's tank in South Carolina. They pulled off the highway and found a gas station off the road, out by itself. Sitting at the gas pumps was a shiny, black, brand-new Camaro Z-28. A yuppie kid was pumping gas into it. Klide pulled on the other side of the pumps and got out.

"Nice car, man!" Klide said to the yuppie.

"Yeah, it is!" he replied. Not really wanting to have a conversation with this long-haired hick driving a ratty pickup. He looked back at the pumps.

Klide walked around the truck and went up to the passenger side window. Bonni rolled the window down and Klide said, "I'm going to rob this place. You flirt with pretty boy and keep him here until I come out. We're taking that chumps car." He said as he nodded towards the Camaro.

Bonni's eyes lit up and she said, "I gotcha Baby." Leaning out of the window to give Klide a peck on the lips, "Hurry up!"

Klide turned and walked into the store. A bored, pudgy, pasty-skinned woman of about 30-years old looked at Klide as he walked up to the counter, smiling.

"May I help you?" She asked as she appraised Klide from his waistband to his eyes. She thought it was her lucky night. First, the yuppie comes in all flirty, and now this boy. She poured on the charm that she used on most of the men and boys that caught her eye. She'd put up the "Be back in fifteen-minute" sign, in a heartbeat, if she could get laid by a little hottie. Even if she never saw them again, she didn't care.

Klide smiled at her and said, "Sure you can beautiful..." as he pulled the gun from out of his rear waistband. "You can open the register and give me what you got."

The girl's eyes got huge and then tears started to flow, she began to blubber... "P-P-Please don't hurt me." she begged. She hit a key on the register. With shaking hands, she pulled all the cash out of their separate bins and pushed it across the counter towards Klide. He smiled at her and said, "Thanks! Now, lead me to the back of the store. You got a storage room back there don't ya?"

Visibly shaking, she nodded her head and began walking. Klide followed her through the open doorway into the storage room filled with boxes of all sorts of merchandise.

"That's good right there." he ordered. When the clerk turned to Klide, she begged with tears pouring down her pudgy cheeks, "P-P-please don't hurt me." she begged, again.

"I promise, Sweetie, this won't hurt a bit.! And he leveled his gun to her face and shot her between the eyes. The back of her skull exploded outward behind her before she collapsed onto the floor. Klide turned and walked away, not giving her a second glance.

He walked casually throughout the store grabbing items he knew Bonni would enjoy before he left to join her.

Outside, the yuppie was leaning against his car smiling and talking to Bonni. She was grinning at something he said when Klide walked up.

"Hey dude, how's it hanging?" Klide asked casually as he walked up to Bonni. He put his arm around her, and her him, while the yuppie lost his smile, looking back and forth between the two.

"What was that noise inside the store?" the yuppie asked.

"Oh, I dropped a damn soda and it burst all over the place." he laughed. "Me and my clumsy self." he added as he rolled his eyes.

"This here, is Paul. Paul meet Klide... my boyfriend." Bonni said, as she introduced the two.

Paul looked at Klide with disdain and confusion and said, "I thought you said he was your brother?"

"Oh.... I lied, Sugar. I'm so sorry." she confessed with a bad of her eyelashes. "Look Paul, we need you to do us a big favor, please." With that said Bonni, pulled her gun and said, "follow me inside the store while Klide here, moves our stuff from the truck to your car."

Still looking confused, Paul began to back away until Klide pulled his gun out and aimed it on Paul's face. Klide smiled and said, "I'd listen to her if I were you, dude. She loves shooting people. It's like a drug or something. I don't know." he chuckled.

Paul stopped in his tracks at seeing Klide's gun. He knew that there were crazy people in the world, but he had never suspected these two po-dunk kids would be carrying guns, let alone aiming them at him. He should've known better than to pull into an out-of-the-way gas station. Now, he just prayed that they'd steal his car and leave him alone. He had the best insurance money could buy, so he wasn't sweating it. Still... these kids made him nervous.

"Come on, cutie pie. Into the store." Ordered Bonni with a wave of her gun. Paul began walking as Bonni got behind him.

"I'll take care of things out here, B.... put him with the cashier. She's in the back of the store. The storage room is straight ahead when you walk in." conveyed Klide.

"Okay Sweetie! Be right back in a minute." replied Bonni.

In the store, Paul tried to reason with Bonni, "Look... you don't want to go to jail, do you? When they catch you, that's what they're gonna do. You know that, right? I can help you, my dad's an attorney."

"Keep walking, pretty boy. We'll be gone in a minute." she told him.

When Paul stepped through the threshold of the storage room door, he saw the clerk's feet and stopped in his tracks.

"Oh my God!" Was all he got out of his mouth. Bonni aimed at the back of his head and pulled the trigger on her dad's 38. The bullet tore through Paul's head, grossly disfiguring his face as the bullet took his right eye and some of his brains right out of his head. He took one step forward, as if he was trying to catch himself, before he collapsed into a stack of Budweiser beer cases. When he hit the floor the top case of Budweiser fell on top of him. The bottles tinked and clinked in the case but none of them broke.

Bonni watched the whole thing with awe and happy fascination. She giggled as she turned on her heels and began whistling as she exited the store.

Chapter 11

When they left the gas station Klide drove the Camaro while Bonni followed in the truck. They drove down the road until they found a home being contracted. Klide had Bonni pull the truck behind the house and park it. He took the truck's keys and tossed them into some woods next to the property.

"Somebody else's problem, now," he said as they got into the Z-28 and they drove away, heading back towards I-95.

As they passed the gas station, a minivan full of kids wearing soccer uniforms were climbing out of a van and running into the store. Klide thought about slowing down to see their reaction when they ran back out, but he decided against it and kept on going.

Back on I-95, Bonni began going through the car's compartments, looking for some good CDs.

"This fags only got rap and crap." she complained. She powered down her window and began to frisbee tossing the CDs out.

"Don't get us pulled over for littering, okay, Babe? Our journeys just begun!" Klide admonished, with a grin.

"Well.. next time let's steal a car with some good music in it. Even the local radio stations suck. country or rap.. That's all that's on anymore." she complained further.

"Alright... next time we'll ask them what kind of music they got before we kill 'em and rob 'em." he said jokingly.

"We should've a got us some before we left home. I wasn't even thinking about it."

"Don't sweat it. We'll be singing with ole Jimmy Buffet before you know it." he said, trying to ease her mood.

"At least he sings about real-life stuff and not all that racist crap ya hear all over the place. We were born too late is what I think."

"Can't argue with you about that, B.."

Bonni settled down in her seat and put her feet up on the dash, trying to get comfortable. She laid her head back on the seat and hummed some more Buffet as Klide reached over to hold her hand. She looked over at him and smiled a smile of a true, unadulterated love.

"I love you, Klide Walker!"

"And I love you, Bonni Harris!"
Chapter 12

Back in Hildebran, both the houses were being gone over with a fine-tooth comb by the police. The detective in charge was a no-nonsense ex-Marine by the name of Nate Dickens. He was standing at the foot of the bed looking at the remains of Bonni's dad. Next to him was the medical examiner.

"Someone did a hell of a job on him, didn't they?" declared Detective Dickens.

"Looks that way." replied, the M. E.. "Can't tell what was carved into his chest until I get him down to the morgue, but it had to be something sexual to get this extreme." he explained.

"Hell, of a way for man to lose his junk..." Dickens muttered.

"No doubt! Any sign of the daughter, yet?" the M.E. asked.

"We've got people looking for her. If she's around we'll find her. You'd think she may have did this?" Dickens asked.

"Usually.... It's someone close to them that does something like this; the wife, the daughter, the jilted lover. From what I hear his wife left him years ago, so that leaves the kid or the lover. Find the girl and you'll probably find the answers," said the M.E., before he called his coworker over to help him bag the body and its parts.

Detective Dickens left the bedroom and walked across the hall to the other bedroom. A female police officer was fingerprinting areas all over the room when he walked in. "Anything good?" he asked her.

"I got two sets of prints, so far. One of them has got to be the daughters. We'll run a check on the other set and see what we come up with." She replied as she lifted another print off the nightstand.

"Keep me posted, please." he requested as he eyed the room. He walked over to the dresser and picked up a picture frame that had a photo of a beautiful, smiling girl in pigtails. "Where are you at, little girl?" He quietly asked the photo.

"Sir?" inquired the female officer, thinking he had said something to her.

"Oh... I'm sorry. I was mumbling to myself." he said.

"Don't worry... I do it to myself all the time." She said with a smile as she went back to her tasks.

At Klide's house, Dickens did the exact same routine of looking over the scene. This was a simpler matter for him to deal with. People died of gunshot wounds all the time, but not so much in a little town like Hildebran. He believed the two murders were connected, but he hadn't the proof just yet. He was standing there looking at the body when another cop walked in and said, "Detective Dickens? Sir... may I talk to you a moment, please?"

"Sure... What ya got?"

"Well, we knocked on a few doors and we got some good descriptions of two individuals that we may be looking for. A Mrs. Abernathy lives a few doors down from the knife when victim and she says the victim's daughter....uh... 15-year-old Bonni Sue Harris had left town yesterday with her boyfriend. He's a 16-year-old boy by the name of Klide Henry Walker."

"Walker?... That's this guy's last name."

"Yes sir! It's his son, sir." the cop added.

"Well... now, I think we know who we're looking for, don't we?" contemplated Detective Dickens. "Put out an A.P.B. for both kids. Say that they are armed and dangerous, and to contact me when they're located."

"Right away, sir." Said the cop as he turned and left the house to go do his chore.

Just then the M.E. came in and said, "I ain't had two bodies to deal with since the car crash over on Rhodhiss, two weeks ago." He said, as he put his bag down and put on another set of gloves. Sighing.

"Yeah, but at least we believe we know who we're looking for, now." responded Dickens.

"Oh yeah?" questioned the M.E..

"Yeah... it looks like their kids may have snapped before they left town."

"I can't wait to read the other one's chest. I can just make out the word, 'raped', but the rest of it was too bloody to read. I hope it wasn't his daughter he did that to. If so, I'm guessing he deserved it, expressed the M.E."

Dickens looked at him and asked, "let me guess... you have a daughter?"

"Two. Both of them in junior high." he replied as he began his task of examining the dead man's body.

"Unlucky you!" exclaimed Dickens.

"Unlucky me is right. They'll be dating soon and I don't have enough bullets for my gun if someone hurts one of them, I can tell you that!" he declared.

"I hear you." stated Dickens, as he made his way around the house, looking about. He couldn't find a photo anywhere in the house of anyone. It's not surprising... this, being a run-down-clapboard-house. There was hardly any food in the kitchen. Dickens figured money was tight and wasted on booze. None would have been spent on photos. Empty beer bottles, cans, and liquor bottles filled the kitchen's trash can. He really couldn't blame the kid for leaving, but why kill his dad?

"Well... gotta find the kids to find answers," he thought.

Chapter 13

When they reached Florida, it was in the wee hours of the morning. Bonni had fallen asleep in the passenger seat. Klide was too restless to sleep so he drove onward.

He had plenty of time to think about the things he and Bonni had done and he sincerely didn't feel any remorse for any of their actions. The world was all fucked up and he and Bonni were just two people cruising along in it, doing whatever they chose to do. They've had enough of the abuse and they felt it was time for some payback. Regardless if the people they hurt or killed deserved it or not. "Fuck them!" was Klide attitude. All he wanted out of life was to be with Bonni and with zero restrictions.

Six months away from her was like a lifetime and he'd go to his grave before he let that happen again. He was dead set in his resolve to make certain that Bonni did whatever the fuck she wanted to do... Even, if it meant killing again and again.

He knew she was just as fucked up in the head as he was. Neither one of them was naïve to the fact that they weren't like other teenagers their own age. When he mentioned to her that he liked to watch the "Faces of Death" videos, he never would've imagined that she liked them, too. They'd put on some Metallica, "Master of puppets" album, and turn down the sound on the TV when they rented the gory videos to watch. They'd have sex during some of the scenes, it got them so excited. They could only watch the movie's when Mrs. Abernathy went to church, since neither one had a DVD player at their home. Mrs. A didn't mind them in her house because she trusted them. If she knew what they were doing, she never let on.

Bonni was fixated on seeing Key West and Jimmy Buffet due to her many hours around Mrs. A. No matter... if that's what she wanted, then Klide was going to do whatever it took to make that happen for her.

He knew they probably wouldn't make it to Hollywood, but none of that mattered to him. Bonni Sue Harris was all he cared about.

Chapter 14

Coming into Jacksonville, Florida Klide took an exit and cruised towards the downtown area. He drove around until he found a gas station that was open. He pulled next to the gas pumps and shut off the car. Bonni stirred in her seat and opened her eyes.

"Where are we, Babe?" she asked, sleepily.

"Jacksonville, Florida. Do you need anything from inside?" he asked.

"Yeah... Could you please grab me a Pepsi and some gum my mouth is icky." she replied. "I'm going to pee." With that they both got out of the car and headed into their own directions. The bathrooms were on the side of the building.

Inside the station, a sleepy eyed black girl was behind bulletproof glass watching Klide head towards the drink cooler at the rear of the store. Klide grabbed a couple of drinks, (he liked Mountain Dew), and some gum on his way back to the clerk. He paid for gas, as well, and went out to the car and began to fill the tank. As he was waiting, a cracked-out, disheveled black man staggered over to Klide and asked, "Hey man... can you spare some change for brother?"

Klide dug in his pocket, saying, "Yeah, dude... here's a dollar." And he separated a one-dollar bill from a handful he had pulled out of his pocket. The next thing he knew, the black dude pulled out a knife saying, "Give me all your money, cracker."

Klide looked at the man as if he was crazy and backed up a step, pulling the gas nozzle out of the Camaro. The black man was waving a knife a Klide from side to side, saying, "cracker... give it up," as Bonni came around the side of the building.

When she saw what was transpiring at the pumps she pulled the gun out of her waistband and jogged up behind the man, putting the pistol's barrel to the dude's neck.

He froze in place as Bonni said, "Do I blow his fucking brains out or what, Klide?"

"I got a better idea for the stupid motherfucker." Klide replied. "Drop the knife, fuck-boy."

The man let the knife clatter to the ground as he pled for his life. "I'm sorry, man... I was just kidding. Please don't kill me. I'm sorry. I'm sorry!"

"Yeah... you're sorry alright. Well, let's see if you like to drink." And Klide ran the gas nozzle end into the man's mouth, tearing teeth, lips and gums while squeezing the nozzle's handle. Gas erupted into the dude's mouth before it spewed out of his nose. Bonni hit the dude in the head with her gun knocking him to the ground. Klide poured gasoline onto the moaning crackhead.

"Get in the car, Bonni. We're gonna light this place up."

Bonni hopped into the car as Klide climbed into the driver seat. He pushed the car cigarette lighter in as the man began crawling away. When the man crawled a few feet ahead of the car, Klide crunk it up and pulled up next to him. He took a red-hot cigarette lighter out of its compartment, put the car in park, got out and walked up to the gas-soaked man. He touched the red cherry to the man's ass, and instantly, he was in flames and screaming, rolling around on the ground.

Klide got back into the car and they burned rubber leaving the station and the burning man behind.

"Hot damn, that was cool, Baby!" said an excited Bonni. She was turned in her seat watching the human fireball roll around on the ground. She said, "the clerk just ran out of the store with the fire extinguisher. She's spraying the dude down. Ha! That was fucking awesome!" She was rippling with laughter.

"We gotta get rid of this car, now. Damn, I smell like gas. Klide commented. 'Can you believe that piece is shit asked me for a dollar, then tried to rob me?' People are fucking crazy!" he stated, seriously.

"I've always heard Florida was full of nut cases. Now, I've seen it for real. What are we gonna do next?" asked an excited Bonni.

"Steal another car, but we got to get the hell away from here." He replied as he sped along, trying to find his way back to I-95.

Chapter 15

A few hours later and further south, the sun was rising from the east. Klide had his window down due to the smell of gas that was all over his hands and shoes. He told Bonni that they'd have to stop somewhere and get a room so he could take a shower. She was all for it, since she, too, was needing one.

Bonni asked, "Klide, do you think the police are looking for us, already?"

"I have no doubt about that, Sweetie. We've left a hell of a trail for them to follow. One things for sure... we'll be famous if it kills us." he said with a smile and a chuckle.

"As long as I'm with you, I don't care. You think we'll make it to Hollywood?" she inquired.

"If we can make it to Key West without any of these damn Florida fruit cakes fuckin' with us, we got a chance. I figure we can steal a boat and cruise over to Texas... Hell, we can go to Mexico or, even, Cuba, if the cops are too hot after us. We'll steal ourselves the fastest boat they got, too." Was the plan he laid out for her.

"I've never been on a boat before," she said.

"Me neither but it looks like fun."

They cruised along until they saw sign for Daytona Beach.

"Want to go to Daytona and see what we can see?" he asked.

"You're driving. Sugar." Was her response as she was taking in as much of the highway scenery as she could.

Klide took the exit that pointed them eastward towards the beach. Once there, he cruised up and down the main strip until he found himself a perfect motel to pull into. He gave Bonni a handful of cash and told her to go into the hotel and get them a room while he looked for a place to park.

In the office, Bonni walked up to the service counter and tapped on a little bell that had a sign saying, "ring for service." A man of about 50 years of age, and some foreign origin, came out of the back room behind the counter. He smiled a big smile at seeing Bonni.

"Hello! Hello!" he said happily. "How may I help you today, pretty lady?"

Bonni flirted, saying, "I need a room, please."

"Okay, we have plenty of vacancies available."

"Can I get a room way in the back? I don't want to be disturbed, you understand?" She cooed giving him her best sexy, sultry look.

He saw all kinds of people come through his motel in the past 12 years since he bought the place, but he was taken aback by the beauty of this girl. He figured she was no more than 16 years old, but that didn't matter. He's not one to care about age when it comes to his lust for young girls. In India, he's had sex with girls as young as 10. In America, he had to be more careful due to the strict laws on that matter. Every now and then he got lucky and ran across a young runaway that needed a place to stay or something to eat and he'd gladly, "trade". Most of the girls were prostituting themselves, anyway, so what did it matter? Looking at the prize standing before him, he was hoping she was "in need". It's been a while for Atuk Patel, but he felt today was his lucky day.

"I have just a room for you my beautiful friend. Room #220 it's all the way in the rear and on the corner. How long will you be staying with me?" He said with a coy look in his eyes.

"Oh... I'm not sure yet. I'll have to let you know." she replied, pulling money from her pocket.

"Do you have any identification, miss?" Here's where he'll see the truth or a lie... He was hoping it was a lie.

"Oh... I'm sorry, I lost it. Is that going to be a problem?"

"Oh no, no, not at all." he smiled, "I fully understand, lots of people lose their IDs around here." He was bubbly inside. "You just put your information on this card and I'll get your key. I'll be right back." With that, he slid her a registration card and turned on his heels and went back into the apartment. A minute later, he returned and placed the key attached to a flat piece of wood with a number 220 and embossed onto it, onto the counter. Bonni reached to grab it and he reached out and covered her hand with his and said, "now, if you need anything... And I mean anything, do not hesitate to call me. My name's Atuk. If you need a meal, or another day and you can't pay, just call me. I'm here for you." He said in his best sincere voice.

Bonni smiled and replied, "why that's the nicest thing anyone has said to me since I've arrived in this state. Thank you, Atuk. I'll definitely be calling you, later on. I promise." She said as she slid her hand and the key out from under his sweaty palm. She turned and walked out of the office, making certain he was watching her heart-shaped ass twist from side to side.

Atuk eyed her lustily as she disappeared around the corner. He smiled to himself for being so suave and subtle. He knew she'd be back, so he went into his apartment to get ready for her.

He was so caught up in her, he forgot to collect her money. No worries... he'd collect payment another way.

Bonni met Klide on the side of the motel. She got in the car and said, "we got us a real live one, Sugar. The manager is hot for me, I can tell you that. Our room is on the end around the back." She showed him the room key as Klide crunk up the car and drove them through the parking lot towards their room.

Inside the room, Klide asked, "you think he's worth robbing?"

"Hell yeah! That old man's a child molester. I see it in his eyes. He flirted with me hard, too." She said as they undressed and climbed into the shower together. "We'll fix his ass before we leave."

In the shower, they bathed and made love.

Chapter 16

Back in North Carolina, Detective Dickens got a call from the M.E.. "I was correct about the word, "raped" carved into the first victims chest. The full message reads as follows; "I raped my little girl", so it's safe to say that, either, the boy did it, or the girl. I'm not sure which. I'd say the girl because of the genitalia thing."

"That made me cringe seeing that. How did he die?" asked the detective.

"Bled out." answered the M.E..

"Hell of a way to go, I'll tell you that!" responded Dickens.

"Well... if he did rape the girl, he deserved every cut. Don't quote me on that." said the M. E..

I have to agree with you. The only prints in his room were the deceased and, I'm guessing, the daughters. She's never been printed, so we can't be sure." the detective added.

"Any luck on the boy?" inquired the M.E..

"Yeah. His name's Klide Walker. He's the second deceased's son. Neighbors verified that the boy and girl--- Bonni Harris, by the way--- are an item, so we're searching for them at the moment." the detective informed him.

"Good luck on that. They must be some very pissed-off kids. I hope they don't give us any more bodies. Two murders in one day is uncommon in our little town."

"I hear you man." With that said, Dickens hung up the phone and took a long look at the yearbook pictures he had procured from the local high school that the two kids had attended. He had Klide's mug shot from his past arrest, but it didn't do the boy justice. Bonni Harris was a startling beauty who could have gone on to be anything in life. Klide Walker was just as good looking. He shook his head in wonder at the site of the two.

"Where did ya'll go?" He asked no one, gazing at the photos. He sat there for a while looking at the kid's faces.

"Hmph... Bonni Harris and Klide Walker," he said to himself. Then, realization hit him. "I'll be damned... we got ourselves a modern day Bonni and Klide." He shook his head while studying their youthful faces. "Well... I'm sure you'll turn up somewhere."

Chapter 17

After their shower and a change of clothes, they walked to the beach to enjoy the morning sun and to gawk at all of the swim-suit people frolicking all over the place. They held hands and had hours of fun, before Klide said it was time to return to the room and plan their next steps.

In the room, Klide turned on the TV and found a news station. There was nothing on the telecast other than political crap, local arrest, and weather reports.

"You think they know about us, yet?" asked Bonni.

"Oh, I'm positive they know who they're looking for in Hildebrand. It's the trail we're leaving behind us is what I'm searching for. When they put two and two together, they'll be searching for is hard and heavy." he replied.

"Does it worry you?" She asked, walking up to him wrapping him up in a hug.

"Nah... don't much worry me, anymore, B., it's all fun in the sun from here on out." he said, hugging her back.

"What ya want to do about the manager?" asked Bonni.

"Well... how about this... You go back to the office and get him to let you into his apartment. I'll wait for you to go in and then I'll sneak in and we'll do our thing. We'll have some fun with him and robbed him of whatever he's got. He's got to have a car, so we'll take that, too. The Camaro is gonna be too hot to travel any further in." he replied.

"You gonna bring the duct tape?" she asked, with a twinkle in her eye.

"Most definitely, Sugar. Gather up your stuff so we can boogie as soon as we're done." He pulled her into a long kiss before he let her go, saying, "let's get this party started, my sexy girl."

"You got a Baby!" she replied with a laugh.

* * *

Fifteen minutes later, Bonni walked into the motel's office. She rang the bell and didn't have to wait but for a couple of seconds before Atuk came out smiling. "Ahh... my beautiful friend. How may I help you this evening?"

"Well... I was wondering if you might enjoy some company. A girl gets lonely in that motel room all by herself." She explained, while looking him in the eye with a sultry smile on her face.

"Yes, yes, I can believe that. Would you like to come back into my apartment where we can...uh... get more comfortable? I was just fixing myself something to eat. Are you hungry?" He inquired, as he pointed her towards the side of the counter so she could come around it and follow him into his domain.

"I am a bit famished." She was playing her seductress-roll to a tee. She knew this fool was easy pickings as she stepped into his apartment. "Wow! Whatever you're cooking sure smells good."

"Thank you, it's just some yellow rice I seasoned with spices. I'll fry us up some pork and we'll eat in a few minutes. Why don't you get comfortable on the sofa and I'll get us something to drink., I've got soda, water, and wine. Which do you prefer?" He asked, while eyeing her all over. He couldn't believe his luck, but he was going to savor every minute he could with her.

"Anything's fine. I'm not into alcohol, though," she returned, as she sat on his plush sofa, still in her role.

As he walked into his little kitchen, Klide crept through the apartment door. Bonni got up off the sofa and pulled her gun out from her waistband. She nodded towards the kitchen, letting Klide know where the manager was. He nodded at her and smiled.

Klide stepped through the kitchen doorway with his gun outstretched in his right hand. Atuk saw him and looked at him quizzing.

"Who are you?" he asked Klide. Atuk had a frying pan in his right hand. It was sitting on the burner, on the stove with two pork tenderloins sizzling in hot grease.

"I'm her boyfriend, chump." Klide replied, nodding towards Bonni as she stepped around Klide.

Bonni raised her gun and said, "back away from the stove, honey pie. We're here to rob you."

Atuk couldn't believe what he was seeing. He's been robbed before, but never in his apartment. Usually, some punk crackhead would take whatever he had in the register and then, they'd run like hell. But this... this was an outrage. He was duped by this beautiful girl and it pissed him off to no end. Without thinking, Atuk grabbed his frying pan and slung the tenderloins and grease out and arched towards the two kids. Both Bonni and Klide ducked, instinctively, as the grease and the meat flew over their heads, slamming into the wall behind them. Before Atuk could charge the pair, Bonni began to fire her gun at him.

The first bullet hit him in his ample belly and the second hit him in his shoulder, spinning him around, knocking him into the refrigerator before he fell to the ground.

Klide ran up to him and kicked Atuk in the face and then slammed his gun down onto Atuk's head. Atuk slumped down, unconscious, but still breathing.

"Are you alright, B.?" asked a concerned Klide.

"Yeah Babe, I'm good. None of that grease got on you, did it?" She asked, looking Klide over.

"Uh-Uh! Damn fool," and Klide kicked Atuk, again, for good measure.

"What are we gonna do with him?" she asked.

"I put the duct tape on the floor just outside the apartment door. Go get it. He's still alive so we can have some fun until he dies. He instructed, still aiming his gun at Atuk.

Bonni left the kitchen and was back in and a couple of seconds. Klide grabbed the duct tape and put a piece over Atuk's mouth. Grabbing Atuk by the hair, Klide dragged him face-down onto the floor. Atuk moaned as Klide taped Atuk's hands behind his back. When he was satisfied that the motel manager wasn't going to get free, he asked Bonni what she wanted to do with him.

"Let's cut off his clothes and cut pieces off of him. See how long it takes him to die." She replied, with excitement in her eyes and voice.

Klide grabbed the knife out of a block of knives sitting on the counter. With Atuk face-down he cut his shirt, pants, and boxers open, exposing Atuk's back, buttocks, and legs. "Hairy motherfucker ain't he?" declared Klide.

"Let me see one of those small knives." Klide gave her a little parrying knife and leaned against the counter to see what Bonni would do.

Bonni sat her gun on the countertop and then stood over Atuk. She carved and cut a few furrows into Atuk's back before Atuk finally gain consciousness. He moaned and squirmed a bit until Bonni was done.

"How's that for a calling card, Sweetie?" She asked Klide as she straightened up to inspect her handiwork.

"I think you got pretty good penmanship with that knife, Babe. There's no doubt the police will know who we are after they see that." he complemented. "Kill him or let him live?" he posed to her.

"Oh no... he's got to die. I'm willing to bet he's molested plenty of little girls in his time." She offered the knife to Klide, asking, "you want the honors?"

"Why, thank you, Baby!" With that, Klide took the knife from Bonni and grabbed Atuk by the hair, raising it up so Atuk could see him. Atuk screamed through his nose as he saw Klide take a knife and lower it to Atuk's exposed neck. Klide let the blade bite deep before he slowly pulled it across Atuk's throat. Blood gushed all over the floor as both jugular veins emptied and squirted Atuk's life's blood into a puddle before Atuk's eyes. Klide let his hair go and Atuk's face went back, face-down into his own blood. Atuk jerked and shivered as his soul wrenched itself from the corpse it used to possess.

Man, it's so much more awesome to see this shit, in living color, isn't it!?" Bonni commented.

"This is way better than a video. That's a fact," answered Klide, as he sat the blade in the sink and washed his hands.

"Let's searched the place and take anything of value." added Klide.

"Let's do it!" Responded Bonni, as she carefully stepped around the body and the blood on the kitchen floor.

Chapter 18

They left the dead manager's apartment with a leather carry-all full of cash and jewelry. Klide found Atuk's stash in a spot that a lot of people use... under the mattress.

Outside, all they had to do was hit the button on the key fob with Atuk's keys to find out which car was his. They hit the jackpot when a brand-new Cadillac chirped back at them.

"Nice car!" examined Bonni. "This dude had a lot of money to be able to afford this motel and this new caddy." Bonni had the carry-all sitting on the floorboard between her legs. She was pulling out pieces of jewelry and trying them on herself.

"Motels aren't cheap. Especially in Daytona, and on the beach, too. I wonder where he got all that stuff from?" He nodded at the jewelry Bonni was handling as they drove towards I-95.

"Ain't no tellin', but it looks expensive. Here Babe, put this on." Bonni leaned over and draped a fat gold chain with a huge lion's head medallion on it, over Klide's head. "Oh yeah, Baby... you look good in gold." she admired.

"You do, too. How much cash is in there?" he inquired.

"I don't know, let's see." Bonni pulled out a few stacks of banded hundred-dollar bills and another wad that had rubber bands wrapped around it. The banded cash had paper strips around them with "$10,000" printed on them. "There's $30,000, plus whatever's in the role." she answered. She un-banded the role and began counting out 10s, 20s, and 50s. "We've got another $5,000 just in this pile."

"Looks like we don't have to rob no more." he declared.

"Well, where's the fun in that? I say we rob every son of a bitch we run across. More money means an easier way to Hollywood, Babe." she retorted.

"It is kind of fun, isn't it?" he chuckled.

"I'm loving this, Klide. Never in a million years would I have thought that we'd be doing the stuff, but here we are. Wild and free are we!" She said, excitedly with enthusiasm.

Klide felt her excitement and echoed her last words, "Wild and free are we, is a fact, B. I'm with you, Babe. Through hell and high water, I'm with you," he declared.

Bonni leaned over and the two kissed as Klide seen the sign advertising the southbound ramp for I-95.

"Let's cruise this boat-of-a-car to our destiny. Key West, here we come!" he expressed with jubilation.

"That's what I'm talking about, Baby. But we're in no real hurry. We can see the sights on the way. Let's stop off in Fort Lauderdale, first. I want to cruise that famous strip I've always heard about."

"Your wish is my command, my lady," returned Klide in his best English accent.

"Why thank you, sir!" Bonni added doing her impression as well.

They both laughed and held hands as Klide steered them southbound in Atuk's shiny, new Cadillac.

Chapter 19

The phone rang on Detective Dickens desk. He answered it and a man said, "I'm told you're the man I need to talk to sir? My name's Sgt. Shuler and I'm with the Columbia, South Carolina Police Department."

"How may I help you, Sgt. Shuler?"

"Well... I've got a couple of bodies down here from a gas station robbery. We lifted some prints from a Klide Walker that we believe killed the store's clerk. The gas station video shows the young man robbing the clerk, then escorting her off camera. We found her body in the station storeroom with a bullet in her head." he explained.

"You said, bodies?" Dickens questioned.

"Yes, sir! Shortly after that, the video shows a girl escorting a previous customer passed the same camera at gun point. He, too, was found dead in the same storeroom. Same type of death... a bullet to the head. The difference is, there were two different bullets in the victims, meaning... two separate weapons were used." he added.

"Bonni Sue Harris..." mumbled Dickens."

"Sir?"

"I'm sorry sir, I believe the girl in your video is Bonni Sue Harris. She's Klide Walker's girlfriend, and the two of them are wanted for questioning in a couple of homicides we have, here as well. Both their fathers were murdered. Hers, more brutally than his." Dickens was looking at the photos he had copied from the yearbook, while he explained things to the Sgt.

"We found a pickup truck at a nearby construction site that's registered to a John Henry Walker. We lifted the boys prints off it, too, which tells us they ditched the truck."

"That's Klide's dad's truck. We figured out, later on, that that's how the two fled."

"Yes sir... we picked up on your APB, which is why I called you. Apparently, they stole the male victims blue Z-28 Camaro and left town in it. They must be heading south on I-95, so we've got a multistate bulletin out for the car and the two kids." revealed the Sgt..

"I can fax you a couple of photos I procured from yearbook, if you'd like." Dickens invited.

"That'd be a big help, sir. The gas station's video isn't that modern, so we've got grainy shots of them. We've aired what we've got, but so far... we've got zip in return."

"I'll get right on it, Sargent. Just give me your fax number and you'll receive it in a few minutes." The Sgt. gave Detective Dickens the number and he sent him a copy of Bonni and Klide's photos. When he'd finished, he sat back down and made a few calls to the Georgia and the Florida Highway Patrol's to alert them on the duo's murderous path, that they may be coming their way.

"Lord, I hope they catch these two before they do anymore damage," he said to himself.

Chapter 20

Klide cruised the caddy South, down A-1-A, on Lauderdale beach. Bonni said she wanted to stay in a fancy hotel, with room service and all, so Klide pulled into the Sheraton's Yankee Clipper just south of Los Olas Blvd.. After parking the car and the hotel's parking garage, they went inside and got themselves a suite, paying cash for one night's stay.

In the room, they took long, hot baths in the Jacuzzi tub and then made love on the king-size bed. Afterwards, they ordered room service and ate like kings, even tipping the bellhop a $20 bill.

"This is how we're supposed to live like, Klide. Not some backward hicks who can afford a pair shoes." She said as she peeled a jumbo shrimp before popping it into her mouth.

"I agree to that, Sugar." Answered Klide as he cut a chunk of a huge T-bone steak he had ordered, well done. "We'll live like this from here on out, I guarantee you that." And he stuffed the fork full of steak into his mouth, savoring the taste.

They fed each other bits and pieces of all the food they had laid out before them. When they had their fill, they sat back on the bed and discussed their next move.

"Want to go down to the pool and hang out, or do we go to the strip?" asked Klide.

"Let's go to the strip, first. I need to buy bikini and some suntan lotion. Look how white we are, we need some sun." she replied.

"Shit.... We're gonna burn." he laughed.

"That's alright with me, it'll turn into a tan." They got dressed and left the hotel, hand-in-hand. They walked north along A-1-A and browsed the T-shirt shops and stores, buying sunglasses, suntan oil, and bathing suits. They bought a cloth bag to hold their clothes as they went into McDonald's bathrooms and changed into their swimsuits. When Klide saw Bonni, he whistled at her and made her blush. "You sure of the finest girl on the beach, Bonni." he complemented.

"You're just partial, Klide Walker. You look cute in your crazy shorts and flip-flops, too." She laughed as she appraised his attire.

"Come on, gorgeous... Let's get us some sun." Klide took Bonni's hand and the two left McDonald's. As they strolled up A-1-A they received all sorts of stairs and whistles from both boys and girls. Klide was used to people admiring Bonni, so he was proud that she was with him. Bonni on the other hand, was getting jealous at the attention the other girls were sending Klide's way.

"If I had my gun I'd shoot those bitches." she professed.

Klide laughed and held Bonni's hand, tightly, so that she wouldn't run after any of the hooting females. "Baby... ain't none of them can hold a candle to you. I've got the hottest girl in all the world." he declared.

Bonni laid her head on his shoulder and said, "I've had enough sun, Babe. Let's go back to the room and make love."

"Sounds like a plan, Sugar." They returned to the Sheraton and made slow love until late evening. Later that night, the pair went down to the dockside restaurant and had a quiet dinner, enjoying the breeze, the candlelight, and the soft music playing over the speakers. Bonni excused herself to go to the bathroom.

When she returned, she looked pissed off, but determined about something.

"What's wrong, B.?" asked a concern Klide.

"Some drunk asshole just grabbed my ass and tried to pin me to the wall so he could kiss me and groped me. I tried to knee him in the nuts, but he kept turning and all I got was his damned leg. If it wasn't for the waiter I'd still be back there." She nodded towards the bathrooms.

"I'll kill that fuckboy..." Klide declared as he started to get up, but Bonni stopped him.

"No, no Baby... I've got a better idea..." And she laid out her plan.

Klide agreed to it, but he was still pissed off.

* * *

Bonni led the drunken man to her room door. "Come on, sexy... just a little kiss for big old Teddy before we get inside." He slurred, trying to push his lips on hers. Bonni was helping the man walk, since he could barely walk on his own. She put his back against the wall, right next to her room door, as she got out her key card and unlocked the door.

"Come on, Baby... Bonni will give you all the kisses you can stand in just a minute. Let's get you inside before you fall down."

She helped him into the room and led him over to the huge bed. When she let him go, he grabbed her and pulled her down on top of him, pulling her closer, trying to kiss her. Just then, Klide came out of the bathroom with a menacing look on his face and his gun in his hand.

Bonni was able to scramble out of big Ted's grasp and then planted a knee right in his groin. The man grabbed his genitals and moaned in pain, curling up into a fetal position on the bed. Bonni hopped off the bed and went to the dresser and opened the drawer. She pulled out her gun and aimed it at the whimpering man. "What're you gonna do with him, Baby?" asked an excited Bonni.

"Here, B..." Klide handed Bonni a roll of duct tape. "You know what to do."

The man opened his eyes and asked, "Who the hell are you, kid?"

"I'm the kid that's gonna watch you two have some fun," Klide replied.

"I ain't got much money... "Take it." he said as he reached for his wallet.

"Keep your hands where they are or I'll shoot your ass dead." Klide ordered, pointing at the man's head.

Ted wasn't a stupid man... well, unless he was drunk, then he lost all sense of himself. He knew he couldn't help but follow this beautiful girl who he thought was gonna give him the best sex he ever had. He didn't expect that she was gonna rob him. Now, he just prayed that that was all they were gonna do.

"Put your hands behind your back." Klide ordered, still aiming at Ted's head.

He did is Klide ordered as Bonni taped his hand securely. When she got that done she put a piece on the man's mouth to silence him.

"Tape his feet, too. Don't let him try to run off." added Klide.

When Bonni finished her task, Klide pulled the steak knife he stole from the restaurant out of his back pocket. "You do the honors, B..."

"With pleasure!" exclaimed Bonni. She climbed onto the bed and let a wide-eyed keening, Ted see the knife. "So, you want to grope me and take advantage of a little girls like me, do ya?"

He began screeching through his nose, trying to yell, while bucking back and forth on the bed trying to get away from Bonni and the knife.

Bonni said, "I'm not gonna hurt ya, Teddy boy. I'm just gonna cut off your clothes. Now, stop all this damn noise before I have Klide, here, shoot you."

Bonni grabbed his shirt and began to cut the buttons off of his shirt. When she got all them cut off, she pulled his shirt out of his pants revealing his soft, white, belly.

He was wide-eyed with terror, breathing through his nose, praying that she'll only cut off his clothes.

Next, Bonni opened his belt and began cutting through his pants until she had them ripped open exposing his boxers.

"Klide? Want to help me, Babe?" she asked.

"Gotcha Sweetie." He replied, as he sat his gun on the dresser and helped her pull Ted's pants down to his knees.

Bonni cut the front at Ted's boxers open and tossed the cut flaps of material aside to reveal Ted's shriveled penis and sagging testicles.

"Awe... Ain't they cute?!" posed Bonni.

"You want to leave another message?" asked Klide.

"Yeah, we may as well. It's been our calling card. What should we say about this pig?" Bonni asked, as she trailed the tip of the blade across Ted's belly and up across both nipples, playing with him.

"I don't know. How about, a groping piece of shit?" responded Klide.

"Good idea! His back, belly, or chest?"

"Oh, look at that belly. It's gotta go there." Klide shot back.

Ted had no idea what they were talking about, but it didn't sound good. He began to shed tears and move about, trying to break his bonds, but it was no use. The tape wasn't giving it all. He thought if he could roll himself away from them, he may have a chance, so he thrashed himself towards Bonni, knocking her and making her fall over him. He rolled off the bed and thumped onto the floor, only to have Klide run up to him and kick the wind out of his stomach. He gasped for as much air as he could through his nose. It was hard since his tears brought mucus and snot into his nose. Wide-eyed in thrashing, Klide stomped onto the bound man's head until he laid unconscious.

"Son of a bitchin' piece of shit!" Klide blurted as he backed off.

Bonni rolled over on the bed and laughed at Klide's outburst. "You can't blame him for trying." she added.

Klide looked at her and he felt her amusement. He, too, laughed before composing himself. "Well... he's all yours, Sugar."

"Well, alrighty then... let's fix him right up!" Bonni got off the bed and they turned Ted over so his back was laying on his bound hands. Bonni began to cut and carve, "Here lies a groping piece of shit" into his chest and belly. Ted awoke when Bonni crossed the "T" of the word shit. She ran the blade down his belly button and to his groin, making it look like a long cross. Just like her father, she took his private parts in her hand and looked Ted in his eyes before she dug in and cut them off. Ted squealed and bucked as Bonni tossed his genitals onto the floor next to his face. He rocked and cried as he bled and blubbered.

Bonni asked, "Do we kill him or let him bleed out?"

"Let him bleed. Right now, all I want is you." He said, with a hunger and lust in his eyes. He stripped off his clothes, as Bonni did the same. They fell onto the bed and had hard, fast, pounding sex in front of a dying man. Ted laid there, gagging and crying as his life ebbed out of his body. The last thing he saw was Bonni looking at him as Klide pounded into her doggie style. His last thought was, "Damn, that should've been me."

Chapter 21

Detective Dickens received, yet, another call concerning the duo the very next day. This time it was from a homicide detective in Jacksonville, Florida. He told Dickens about the burning man and the escape they had made in the Camaro. A "B.O.L.O" (be on the look-out) had been issued for the car, as well as the two teens.

"When we put out the B.O.L.O, we got a hit from South Carolina. I called the officer in charge...uh.. Sgt. Schuler and he told me about you. What can you tell me about these two individuals...? If you care to part with that information." he asked.

"It seems they're on a murderous run, that's for sure. They left both their fathers dead, here, in North Carolina, before fleeing south. In South Carolina, well, I'm sure you already know about that; two dead there as well. I've done some background work and found out that the kids were long abused by their fathers. I'm guessing that that's what set them off. Why they're still killing is beyond me. Blood-lust, maybe? I don't know." informed Dickens.

"What the hell? So, these two are heading south and leaving a trail for the whole world to see, huh?"

"Looks that way to me." replied Dickens.

"Shit! Florida is a hell of a state for criminals to come and hide in. They seem to be heading southbound so we'll find them sooner or later. I just hope they don't kill anyone else. If you hear anything more will you give me a call? My name's Detective Clouse and I can be reached anytime at this number..." he gave Dickens his cell number and hung up.

Dickens shook his head at the thought of Bonni and Klide cruising south and still killing. "Damn kids!" Was all he muttered as he sat back in his chair and pondered what call he'd get next.

He didn't have to wait long. That very afternoon he received another call from, yet, another homicide detective in Daytona.

"Is this Detective Dickens?"

"Yes, sir! How may I help you?" he answered.

"My name's Detective Hudson with the Daytona Police Department in Florida. We've got ourselves a body down here with one of your criminal's fingerprints all over it."

"Let me guess... Klide Walker, again?" invited Dickens.

"Yes, sir, that'd be correct. He left a hell of a mess in one of our beach motels. He damn near beheaded the manager of the place, but not before he carved the words, 'I'm a child molester' into the man's back. Pretty nasty site, I can tell you that." proclaimed Detective Hudson.

"What about the girl?" inquired Dickens.

Residents said the girl was with him. We've got some prints, but we're not sure who they belong to. The manager was known for having all sorts of young girls in and out of his apartment, so we are not sure who's prints are who's." Hudson informed him.

"I've got the girl's prints on file, so if you'd like I can fax them to you." Dickens offered.

"That'd be mighty helpful, sir."

"The girl's name is Bonni Sue Harris. She's 15-years old and she's not innocent. That girl probably did the carving on the man's back." Dickens said.

"Jeezus... so young to be so vicious. Kids these days... with video games and all the vivid imagery. I refuse to let my kids near them." The detective added with wonder and steadfastness in his voice.

"I hear you, sir. I appreciate you calling me. I'll fax them prints to you, plus a couple of photos I've got for them. You may want to put their images over the airwaves so you can try and capture them before they kill again. I'm thinking they're not done just yet," predicted Detective Dickens.

"Lord, have mercy on the poor souls they run into." remarked Detective Hudson.

"Amen to that!" exclaimed Dickens.

Chapter 22

Bonni and Klide left the hotel shortly after they had sex, then a shower. They left the body where it lay on the floor. They took US One, south, towards Miami. They were very tired from the long day on the beach, so they decided to search out a small motel along the way so they could grab some sleep.

They found a cheap, rundown place that accepted Klide's cash and didn't ask for any identification. In the room, they fell asleep until the maid knocked on their door the following morning. Refusing the maids request to clean their room, Klide got up and turned on the television to a news station. Bonni still slept.

He slipped out of the room and bought a couple of sodas out of the drink machine next to the office. Upon returning to the room, Bonni was awake staring at the TV.

"Look Klide... we made it. We're famous." She stated, as she pointed at the screen.

Klide saw a pretty brunette reporter explain how the couple were wanted for multiple murders in three states. He got pissed off at seeing how they misspelled their names.

"My names not spelled C-L-Y-D-E, you dumbass." he vented to the screen.

"They added an "E" to the end of my name. What the fuck?" blurted Bonni.

"I've got half a mind to call that station and straighten them out." said a pissed off Klide.

"Look... They're comparing us to some other gangster couple from like the 40s or the 50s." Bonni was sitting cross-legged on the bed looking intently at the TV. "You ever hear of them Klide?" she asked.

"Yeah... a kid at the boy's home told me my name was spelled wrong, once. I knocked his front tooth out 'cause I thought he was having fun with me. Turns out, he was talking about that couple, right there." He pointed towards the TV.

"They must have had a long go of it, back then, to get recognition this far into the future. You think we'll have a long reputation like they do?" she asked.

"Well, I don't know, Babe. One thing's for sure... we've got to get to Key West if we're gonna try and steal a boat. It won't be long before the cops get on our trail." he returned.

"Look... There's a number to call. You gotta call and make and 'em get our names right. How are we gonna go down in history if they can't spell our names right?" Bonni expressed with seriousness.

Klide grabbed the phone off the nightstand and called the 1-800-number from the TV.

When a woman answered, asking Klide for his information, Klide said, "This is Klide Walker. That's K-L-I-D-E, not C-L-Y-D-E. You need to fix that crap on TV, or I'll come down there and shoot the shit out of all you motherfucker's." he stated.

"Sir... you say your name is Klide Walker?"

"That's right, you dumb bitch...K-L-I-D-E," he spelled it for her again.

"Klide... tell her my name doesn't have a damn "E" on the end of it, either."

"Oh, and another thing... Bonni's name don't have an "E" on the end of it. That's B-O-N-N-I, not B-O-N-N-I-E...Get it right or I'll let her carve your ass up." he threatened.

"Sir, please hold on while I put you through to someone else..."

"The bitch put me on hold! Can you believe that?" asked an exasperated Klide. "Come on, B., we gotta get the hell out of here. They'll trace this call and be on us in no time." He and Bonni ran around the room gathering her things. Just as they were fixing to leave, someone knocked on their door.

Klide and Bonni pulled their guns at the same time. Klide put his index finger to his lips warning Bonni to be quiet. He crept to the door and grabbed the knob as Bonni crept to the window and peaked out to see who it was.

"It's the manager." she whispered.

"Who is it?" called out Klide.

"I need to have a word with you, please. It's very important that you leave my..." He never finished his sentence. Klide yanked the door open and grabbed the dark-haired, dark-eyed, Indian man by his shirt and pulled him into the room at gunpoint.

"You even speak, I'll blow your brains out." Klide stated with steel in his voice. Klide pushed the wide-eyed immigrant face down onto the bed as Bonni closed the room door. She went back to the window and peaked outside to see if anyone had seen Klide's action. No one was about.

Klide kept his gun against the shaken man's neck as he looked to Bonni.

"No one's out there, Babe. He's alone as far as I can see." she told him.

"What the fuck are you doing at my door?" Klide demanded, with a poke of his gun.

Through a muffled voice the manager chattered, "I see you on TV. Please, I just want you to leave. I don't call da police. I swear!" He was shaking all over under Klide's grasp.

"What kind of car do you drive?" asked Klide.

"It's the Camry, by the office. Please... take it, the keys are in my pocket. Please, just go," he begged. "I promise, I won't call da cops."

"You got that right!" Exclaimed Klide, as he grabbed a pillow and put it over the whining man's head and pulled the trigger. A muffled shot rang out and the manager began to thrash about. Klide got up off him as the dying man soon relaxed. "Come on B., it's time to go." He ordered, as he dug through the dead man's pockets, finally extracting a handful of keys.

They grabbed their bags and left the room nonchalantly as possible. No one was about as they walked towards the office and the gold Toyota Camry. Once in the car, Klide drove them away from the motel, vigilant for any signs of the police. There were none to be seen as he drove southward, towards Key West.

Chapter 23

"Thank you for coming, detective. We hope your knowledge of these kids will help us catch them before they kill again." Detective Dickens got on a redeye flight from the Hickory Municipal Airport directly to Fort Lauderdale. A joint task force was gathering in an office of the homicide bureau and the local Broward County Sheriff's office. The O.I.C. (the officer in charge) of the newly formed unit was a seasoned veteran by the name of Detective John Adams.

"I hope I can be of service, sir." responded Detective Dickens.

"Well, you should. You know more about these two than anyone else." he assumed. "Listen up everyone..." he called across the room. "This is Detective Dickens from the Hildebran Police Department in North Carolina, where these two suspects began their murderous trail. Listen closely... He'll fill you in on their past so, hopefully, we can understand and apprehend them before they hurt anyone else. The floor is all yours, sir." Detective Adams stepped aside for Dickens to speak.

"Bonni Sue Harris... She's 15-years old, beautiful, bright, and very twisted for her young age." Dickens passed out copies of the yearbook photo to members of the task force as he spoke. "I've learned that she was raped by her father since she was seven-years-old." Disgruntled murmurs echoed through the crowd. "This is what she did to her dear old dad..." and he began passing forth autopsy photos and on the scene shots of the mutilation Bonni had left behind.

Dickens waited until everyone saw the gruesome pictures before he continued.

"A local elderly woman, who befriended the girl, says that Bonni was teaching herself how to be an actress. Her dream was to go to Hollywood and be a star. She swears that she never knew the girl's father was raping her... meaning Bonni never had told her. Mrs. Abernathy, the elderly lady, says that she found a video called, "Faces of Death" in her home, once, but never questioned the girl about it. Does anyone here not know about these videos?" he looked around the room and most everyone agreed that they had indeed heard of them.

"For those of you who may never have seen them... They're videos of real live death scenes; accidents, suicides, and even murders. All of them very graphic and very real." He let that sink in before he went on.

"Our coroner believes that it was Bonni who carved the words, "I raped my little girl." into her father's chest before she sawed off his private parts with the serrated steak knife. His severed genitals were found lying on his chest, indicating she wanted him to see them as he bled out." A few of the detectives blanched and shook their heads at Dickens' vivid descriptions.

"In South Carolina, she's seen on video footage from a gas station, leading a male customer into the back-storage room. There's a slight flash just off camera that we believe is from the gun she had in her hand. The male victim was found with a bullet in his head."

"In Jacksonville, Florida, at another gas station, she's on video footage for just the second. It shows her running up to the gas pumps with the gun in her hand. The clerk says Bonni held a gun to a black man's head as Klide Walker poured gasoline on him and set him on fire."

"In Daytona, a manager of a motel was found dead with the words, 'here lies a child molester', carved into his back." More photos were passed around the room. "His throat was cut from one side to the other."

"As for Klide Henry Walker... This kid is 16- years old, and as you can see, Dickens handed forth more photos, 'he's a good-looking kid, too.' The elderly woman, Mrs. Abernathy, says that it was well-known that his father physically abused him since he was a little child. School records show that the boy was delinquent most of the time. He's had numerous fights, as well, and I'm told he's never lost one."

"About a year ago he was caught stealing food from a local supermarket and had spent the last six months in Black Mountains Boys Home. He was released the day of their father's deaths."

"We believe each kid executed their own father as a means of retaliation and solidifying their freedom."

"Klide is, also, seen on camera in the South Carolina robbery aiming his gun at the female clerk as he made her give up the cash. He, then, led her to the storage room and murdered her." He passed out still shots from the surveillance video.

"In Jacksonville, the clerk states that Klide poured gasoline onto a local crack addict and lit him on fire." More photos were passed around. These showed a charred lump lying on the ground.

"We're not certain who did what to the motel manager in Daytona, but you can bet that Bonni and Klide worked together on that."

With that said, Detective Adams took over. "This morning, as some of you know, a body was discovered in a hotel room of the Sheraton Yankee Clipper on the beach. The man was last seen alive in the hotel's restaurant and witnesses say he was in Bonni's company. The kids had a room and that's where the deceased body was discovered by the maid. We're not sure how far ahead of us they are, but we believe they're still close."

"Just this morning, we got a call from the Miami Police Department informing us that they had another body that they're almost positive was left behind by the kids. At a motel in North Miami, a motel owner...uh, one Mr. Shirag Hadiz... was found by his wife, shot to death, in one of his rooms. She says that they had rented a room to the kids the night before. Her and her husband watch the news, religiously, and the first thing this morning they saw the news report that channel 7 aired about the kids. She said her husband went to their room to chase them away, because her husband didn't want any police to come to his motel. He didn't make it back to their apartment."

"Through all of her anguish at finding her husband dead she, later, realized that her husband's car was missing. It was a 2012 Toyota Camry, gold in color. The kids left behind a Cadillac that they had stolen from the motel manager in Daytona."

"And APB is out for the Camry and every law enforcement from here to Key West are on the lookout for them." He looked about the room at all the officers. "It's imperative that these two are caught before they kill again."

"Channel 7 aired a special report and did a comparison of the two kids and an infamous couple from the past... Everyone here is old enough to have heard about Bonnie and Clyde, the murdering bank robbers?" he posed as a question. "We have ourselves our own modern-day Bonni and Klide, gentleman. The news station said that they received a call from someone saying they were them and mad that their names were spelled improperly." A chuckle echoed around the room." I know... ya gotta remember, these two are very screwed up kids, so we placed some officers at the station in case they came there for revenge. We don't believe they'll go near the place, but we're covering all bases."

"Now... are there any suggestions or for thoughts on how to catch these two?"

Dickens raised his hand. "Yes, Detective Dickens?"

"Mrs. Abernathy made a comment in one of her statements about loving to play Jimmy Buffet's, 'Margaretville' song. She even said the girl spoke once of going to Key West to try to meet him. Maybe that's where they're headed. I know it sounds crazy, but these two aren't exactly sane." Dickens revealed. "And... they seem to be traveling in that direction."

"Good call, sir... we'll alert the Highway Patrol, the Homestead Police, as well as the Miami Dade Sheriff's office and put them on full alert for the Camry and the kids." Detective Adams looked over the other detectives and police officers before he asked once more... "anything else?"

When no one answered, he concluded, "alright people... let's get going. And remember... these kids are armed and very dangerous. The public is being warned, as I speak, through various channels so hopefully we'll not have any more deaths before we apprehend them." He ended the meeting by asking Detective Dickens if he'd please, come with him.

Outside in the hallway he told Dickens, "You're welcome to ride with me. I've got the county's helicopter waiting to take us to Miami. I want to be in the sky when they get on their trail, and I'm sure you'll want to be there for their apprehension."

"Yes sir, I'd love that. Thank You!" replied Dickens.

"No problem. Just follow me." With that, the two detectives went about their tasks, both hoping they could see an end to the kid's murderous rampage with no one else hurt.

Chapter 24

Klide drove them through various back streets and side roads looking for signs that would point them towards Key West. Finally, he saw an overpass and figured his way onto the turnpike and headed south. At the first exit, Klide steered them off the highway and found a strip mall to pull into.

As pre-planned, Bonni had both guns fully loaded and their bags ready.

Klide cruised through the parking lot until he saw what he was searching for. He parked the Camry next to a shiny, new looking, black, Ford Mustang and he sat there contemplating their next move.

"Okay, B. You go inside and buy the things we need, while I wait on the driver of this car to return. If no one shows up before you get back, I'll have to hotwire it." he instructed.

"Gotchya, Babe!" With that, Bonni got out of the car and went into a small boutique called, "Angels Closet." The ad in the window showed dresses, hats, purses and sunglasses... Some of the things Bonni wanted to purchase.

Fifteen minutes later, she was back in the Camry with Klide. "Here you go Sweetie, try these on." she offered. She handed him a pair of sunglasses and a floppy fishing hat. She, herself, put on a pair of women's sunglasses and a girly ball cap with sequins and glitter.

"I thought we were trying not to stand out?" remarked Klide.

"Who'd think we'd wear this gaudy crap, trying to hide from the police?" she smirked. "It's the best I could do, Babe."

"Your mighty cute and in that get up, though." he teased with a smile.

"Why thank you my love. You look pretty sporty yourself, if I may say so." And they laughed as they lean towards each other for a quick kiss.

Just then, a woman around 30 years of age was walking around the Mustang, pulling out her keys from her purse.

"Let's do this, B." asserted Klide.

He and Bonni exited the Camry at the same time. Klide it is gun down by his right leg as he stood up and said, "Excuse me ma'am... could you help us with something? We're lost and not sure which way it is to get back to I-95." He and Bonni walked around the Mustang towards the woman.

She looked hurried and impatient as Klide came around the car as she unlocked her door. Klide raised the gun to waist level so she could see it, but he was smiling and so good-looking that, at first, she thought it must've been a joke or something. Klide crowded her and opened the door for her.

"Get in the backseat and don't say a word, lady or I'll shoot you dead, right now." he demanded.

Bonni came around Klide and pushed the wide-eyed woman, sticking her gun into the woman's ribs. "In... Now," Bonni asserted.

Once in the backseat, Bonni climbed in with her, keeping the gun at the frightened woman's side. Klide walked around the Mustang and retrieved their bags from the Camry. He tossed them into the passenger seat of the Mustang and closed the door. He casually walked back around to the front end of the car and hopped into the driver seat. He crunk up the car and drove them out of the parking lot towards the turnpike.

Veronica Simmons couldn't believe her luck. Just this morning, she got a speeding ticket for doing 58 and 45 zone, only to be late for work and have her boss yell at her. Now, she's being kidnapped at gunpoint by two teenagers who were gonna do, God knows what to her and her car. And... she was going to be late picking up her son from daycare, which could cost another 30 bucks. She took a chance and asked the question... "You're not gonna hurt me, are you?"

Bonni looked at her and said, "Ain't nobody gonna hurt you, lady. We'll put you out as soon as we get back on the highway. I promise."

"We just need your car ma'am." stated Klide.

"Oh, thank God!" exclaimed Veronica, relaxin a bit." I've got a little boy. He needs me. You can understand that, right?" she blubbered.

"We understand, ma'am," answered Klide. "You can climb up here and sit in the front seat, so when I pull over you can get out. We're almost to the interstate."

Veronica squeezed herself between the two bucket seats and put their bags on the floor board and sat in the passenger seat, silently. She thanked God that they were gonna let her go.

When Klide drove them onto the turnpike he asked Veronica how much the upcoming tollbooth charged. She said, "steer into the lane, marked, 'Sun Pass'. I have a sticker on the windshield that lets me cruise right on through," as she pointed to the little decal in the corner of the windshield. Klide followed her directions.

At the very next exit, Klide steered the Mustang off the interstate and drove until he found the perfect place. He turned down a side road and stopped the car.

"This is where you get out." He reached over her and opened her door for her. As she climbed out, Klide raised his gun and shot her in the back of the head. She fell onto the road and lay there, dead. He floored the gas pedal and did a U-turn, heading back towards the interstate.

"I thought you'd gone soft on me Babe." Bonni remarked, as she climbed into the passenger seat.

"Not me, honey. I'm as hard as they come." He, replied, smiling.

"Really?" she asked. "Let's see!" She edged closer and unbuttoned his pants. She pulled his penis out and said, "It ain't hard yet, but give me a second." As he drove them back onto the interstate, Bonni gave Klide something to smile about.

Chapter 25

In the chopper, Detective Adams got a call from the Miami Police Department alerting them of a carjacking by two individuals who fit the kid's descriptions. He had the pilot fly them to the strip mall.

Once there, he was assured that the fingerprints in the Camry was, indeed, Bonni and Klide's. He was told the abduction was done no more than an hour earlier, meaning the kids weren't far ahead of them.

"What are the chances the missing person is gonna be found alive?" asked the officer in charge on the ground.

"I wouldn't get my hopes up if I were you. These two, play for keeps." Detective Dickens informed him.

As they looked over the Camry for any signs of where the duo might be heading, Detective Adams got another call.

"Shit!" he exclaimed. "They found the woman who was abducted with a bullet in her head. She was tossed out of her car on an off street, just off the turnpike. It seems they're headed to Key West after all." he told Dickens. "Come on... we'll fly to the scene."

They arrived in less than 10 minutes later, to all sorts of police activity surrounding a sheet-covered body on the side of the road.

Once landed, they were taken to inspect the body and hear all the reports of the closest neighbors who said they had heard the car pull onto their road and then, they heard a gunshot. One neighbor looked out the window to see the black Mustang and got the tag number. Another neighbor didn't bother leaving her house, but called the police, instead. She was badly shaken to know than an innocent woman was murdered that close to her home.

"We're close... I can feel it." proclaimed Detective Adams.

"Yeah... they're running now. At least we know what kind of car their driving and the tag number of 665-FLX. Now we know where they're going, too. We need to get back in the air." announced Detective Dickens.

"Let's go!" responded Detective Adams.

Back in the chopper, Detective Dickens was mad as hell and very concerned at the same time. He hated it that the kids were still out there, killing people for no reason. He'd love nothing more than to put a bullet in each kid's head, but he also knew that the kids never stood a chance in life. With mixed feelings, he gazed on the highway below them. He too, felt that they were close to the murderous couple. He was just ready for it to end.

Detective Adams was lost in his own thoughts, as well. He wanted to be there for the take-down, but most of all he wanted to see the killing stop. People died every day from murderers in south Florida and he was on the verge of quitting the force. He didn't see a future in chasing killers. It was growing on his conscience having seen so many dead bodies over the past 10 years he's been on the force. He contemplated making this his last take-down.

Just then, Detective Dickens heard radio chatter announcing that Homestead Police had spotted the car and the kids. They were exiting the turnpike that runs directly onto US One, heading straight for Key West and the Seven Mile Bridge.

The detective's hearts began to beat faster at the thought of this ending soon. The pilot steered the chopper towards one of the longest bridges in America.

Chapter 26

"Well, Baby... it won't be long now." declared Klide. "We'll be in Key West, soon, and you can sing the Jimmy Buffet song 'til your pretty heart's content."

"I'm so excited, Klide. Thank you for agreeing to take me there, Babe." She responded by giving him a hug and a kiss on the cheek.

"I'd go to hell and kill the devil himself for you, B."

"I know, Sweetie, and I'd do the same for you." she replied. "Do you think the cops are on to us yet?"

"There's no doubt they know who we are. You saw the news report. But as far as them knowing where we're going... I don't know." he answered. "We just passed a cop car when we came off the highway. He's back there behind us a couple of car lengths. I can't tell if he's following us, or not. He's not getting aggressive, so I don't know."

"I've got the guns loaded if he does. I'll get him off our asses, quick, if he slides up behind us." She declared as she put those guns in her lap, gripping them with both hands.

"I don't know if this car will out run him, or not, but we'll give it a shot if we have to," he said, as he kept one eye on the road and one on the rearview mirror. Klide knew that if the police got on their trail that they'd have a hard time shaking them off. Especially after all the blood they left behind. The only thing that mattered to him was getting Bonni to Key West. He knew she was fixated on the Jimmy buffet thing, but he loved her more than life itself and whatever she wanted... he'd do. No questions asked.

Klide never had love in his life until he met Bonni. She didn't judge him, criticize him, or berate him for any of his faults – which were many. She said she loved him, unconditionally, and he believed her completely. His heart felt hugged each and every time he looked at her smiling at him. He didn't know how he attracted such a beautiful girl, but he was grateful that she was at his side.

While he was in the boy's home, she wrote him each and every day. She professed her love to him, time and again, and he knew they'd be together forever. "Always and Forever," she said. He added "Always and Forever and a Day," to his letters to her. Although, he was just 16, he felt like they were, old-souls that's been cruising through the Universe together... for eternity. He looked at Bonni and smiled.

"What are you thinking Babe?" she asked.

"Oh... Just how much I adore you B." he replied.

"I adore you, too, Sweetie." She said with love in her eyes and a smile on her lips.

Just then, the cop hit his lights and siren, two cars behind them. Klide watched as both the trailing vehicles pulled over so the cop could pass. He sped up and got very close to the Mustang's bumper. Klide did what he had planned to do... he floored the gas pedal and sped up ahead of the cop, only to have the police car close in on them.

"Light his ass up B.," Klide ordered.

Bonni let out a whoop of joy as she turned in her seat and began firing both guns directly through the rear windshield at the cop car. Glass shattered as the Mustang's back window dissolved into fragments into the backseat and onto the trunk. Spider-web holes formed, as if by magic, on the driver side of the police car. The officer was hit in the face, neck, and chest, and was dead before his car swerved off the road and into a swampy mess that was the beginning of the Florida Everglades.

"Ha, Ha, Ha!!! Hell yeah, Baby!" Bonni yelled with excitement." "Did you see that, Sugar?" She asked as she turned and sat back down in her seat. Both guns had wisps of smoke trailing out of the barrels as she began to empty the spent cartridges and tossing them out of the car's window.

"Fuck yeah, Baby doll! That was some good shootin'." he answered. "YEEE-HAWWWW!" He hollered and pounded the steering will for emphasis.

Bonni reloaded both guns and eyed her side mirror, saying, "Looks like we've got more company coming."

"I see 'em, too. The choppers been up there for a spell, but I didn't pay it no attention 'til now." Klide said as he, too, was watching the rearview mirror. "Here comes the Calvary, B., you see the cars?" he asked.

"I see 'em. When they get closer I'll burn their asses up." She remarked and turned back around in her seat, getting on her knees so she could steady herself. She leveled both guns across the top of her seat and took aim, just waiting for the approaching police car to get closer.

Klide had the Mustang pushing 110 miles an hour as he flew passed motorist who were ambling along. He swerved around vehicles, barely missing oncoming traffic. Cars were pulling off the road in Klide's wake, as they saw the many lights of all sorts of police vehicles on the trail of the speeding car.

Bonni let loose with a few shots towards the chasing cars, the car that was directly behind them by 100 yards, swerved off the road and stopped. Cars behind it kept on coming.

"There's a lot of them back there, Klide. I hope we got enough bullets." she informed him.

"They'll back off in a minute. Can you shoot at the helicopter?" he asked.

With that, Bonni leaned out of the car as the wind whipped her hair all over the place. She took aim at the chopper and fired both guns. She never knew she hit it, but it pulled back and climbed higher and away from them, trying to get out of reach of Bonni's gunfire.

"That did it, Sugar. They backed off." She stated, as she climbed back inside the car.

"The cars are backing off, too, but they ain't going anywhere, now." he declared. "Bonni... I hope I can get us to Key West."

"If we don't make it Baby, I love you for trying."

"I'm not going to prison, B. I refuse to be penned up like a dog. Never Again!" He professed, as he looked over at her with determination in his eyes and voice.

"I know, Klide... we'll never rot in some prison cell... I promise you, I won't let that happen." she pled.

Klide sped onward until he realized that there was no oncoming traffic anymore. Not wanting to worry Bonni any further, he kept on going. Behind them, he could see police lights as far as the eye could see. Ahead of them he saw nothing but the sun, blazing in the sky.

On one side of him was water, stretching off into the distance, disappearing into its own horizon.

Klide's heart was heavy and he knew he and Bonni weren't gonna make it to Key West. The last sign he saw said Key West was still miles off into the distance.

"What're you thinking, Klide?" asked Bonni.

"That I love you, Bonni Sue Harris." he declared.

She reached over and took his right-hand in hers and said, "I love you, too Babe! We're going to be alright, you know?"

"Yeah... we're going to be alright."

Chapter 27

For a few more miles, they held hands and drove onward both lost in their own thoughts of a world full of heartache and disappointment. They had each other and for that moment, that was all that mattered to the kids who never stood a chance in life.

"You see what I see, B.?" asked Klide.

Up ahead, in the distance were more flashing lights.

"Yeah... I see it. What you want to do, Klide?" She asked, knowing what his answer would be.

"We gotta try and fight our way through it, Babe. I'm not going down without at least trying." He replied, with finality in his words.

The sun was shimmering in the sky and sending heat waves off the road. So much so, that Klide didn't see the spikes strewn across the road ahead of them. He was traveling too fast to try and steer around them.

"Son of a bitch!" He exclaimed, as he ran over the first set, then the second set, that embedded into the Mustang's tires. The car steered across the northbound lane and slammed into the guard rails before coming to a screeching halt. Bonni's head butted the dash board, causing a small one-inch gash to open up and poor blood down her for head and nose.

Klide looked at her, then reached for her, asking, "B., Baby... you alright?"

"Yeah... yeah... I'm okay. It's just a small cut." She replied, as she put her hand to her head to feel the size of the wound. She pulled her hand away and saw the blood.

Klide pulled his shirt off over his head and pushed it against her forehead trying to stop the blood. "I'm so sorry, B. I didn't think they'd spiked the tires." He said in a worried, sorrowful voice.

"I'm good, Klide... it's just a scratch, Babe."

Behind them, all sorts of police vehicles were pulling up, blocking the road. In front of them it was the same thing. They had nowhere to go.

"What do we do, Klide?" She asked turning in her seat still holding Klide's shirt to her head while looking at their situation.

"There's only one thing to do, Babe..." he stated.

He need not say anything else. Bonni handed Klide his dad's gun. She grabbed the box of bullets she had on the floorboard and handed them to Klide. She tossed Klide's bloody shirt into the rear seat and grabbed her dad's revolver. She began to load her gun as a small stream of blood trickled down her for head and dripped off the end of her nose onto her lap.

When their guns were loaded, they saw the helicopter landing behind the barricade of cars behind them. Cops were outside their cars, aiming at them from behind their car doors.

Bonni turned to face Klide and they embraced and kissed each other. When they separated they locked eyes staring at each other for what they knew maybe their final time. Klide stared into Bonni's baby blue eyes and she stared into his puppy dog brown eyes.

"Are you ready, Babe?" asked Klide.

"Let's light their asses up, Sugar." she said with a smile.

They turned in their seats, Klide, facing the cops in front of them, while Bonni faced the cops behind them. As one, they began shooting at the cops. Klide had his gun aiming out the driver side door while he unloaded on the nearest cop car. Bonni was on her knees in the passenger seat, shooting out the back window, as well. Bonni's gun and emptied quickly and she dropped back down in her seat to reload as bullets tore through the windshield. She dropped down onto the floorboard covering her head as glass rained down upon her. She fumbled with the bullets as she ejected shells trying to reload with blood in her eyes.

Klide got off a whole magazine before a bullet tore through his throat, spraying the head rest with blood and flying glass from the windshield. More bullets flew into Klide's face and torso, shaking him as each bullet found its mark. He slumped in his seat and died.

Bonni was wrapped in a ball on the floorboard until the shooting ceased. When it got quiet she looked towards Klide and his lifeless body. She began to cry as bits of glass trickled out of her hair. It looked like glitter was clinging to the blood on her forehead as she reached for Klide's hand. Through tears, blood, and glass Bonni looked at the boy that loved her unconditionally. Her eyes blurred for a second as she let out a squeak of a cry.

Steeling herself, she began to reload her gun. When it was loaded she took Klide's gun and loaded it, too.

Just then, a man's voice called over a bullhorn, "Come out with your hands up. You're surrounded and you've got nowhere to go."

Bonni opened her car door and stepped out of the car, both guns in her hands aiming at the ground.

The police officer with the bullhorn said, "drop your weapon, now!"

Bonni walked towards the rear of the bullet-riddled Mustang. She looked like someone from a horror show with the blood and glass all over her face and clothes as she raised both guns and began to fire at the police.

Cops from both sides opened fire on the 15-year-old girl, filling her with bullets. She looked like a puppet that danced on strings until she collapsed onto the road, dead. Both arms were out-flung to her sides, guns in both hands.

When the fire ceased, once again, Bonni Sue Harris and Klide Henry Walker were dead.

A lone news chopper was circling overhead recording the scene from above. Its reporter stated; "I just witnessed the most incredible shoot-out I've ever seen. Ladies and gentlemen, you are seeing it live, the aftermath of the take-down of two teenagers called Bonni and Klide. Their murder-spree has finally come to an end." The cameraman panned wide to show how much law-enforcement it took to bring these two kids to a tragic end. "The question now raised is, 'Why these two children did what they did?'... I'm Patricia Painter at Channel 7 News."

Epilogue:

SOMETIME LATER....

Detective Dickens stood before the auditorium full of adults. He was nervous, but determined to speak. He gazed across the seated crowd of administrators, teachers, a few county officials, and parents of kids who could potentially become just like the two children he recently chased. He cleared his throat and began to speak...

"Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for coming today. We all saw what can happen to the children who are not loved, taught properly and weren't nurtured. Every one of us has a responsibility in this matter. A responsibility, to see that this sort of thing, never, happens again." He let that sink in before he continued.

"Our jobs as parents and caring adults are to look at our children, (and not just our own) for signs of stress and abuse that comes in many forms. If you even THINK a child needs help, please investigate. Talk to that child. Go to see the parent, or parents. Go to a counselor, or another teacher, or the principal. If it's any sort of abuse that you can prove... Please, please go to the police."

Now, I know a lot of people don't want to go to the police and be seen as 'busy-bodies' or even 'snitches', but ask yourself this question: "What if they were your children, a child that you loved. What then?...."

Detective Dickens continued his speech for another 30 minutes. When he finished, and exited the stage he was met by some tearful husbands and wives vowing to help in any way they could. He thanked them and left the auditorium. Outside in his car, he sat there and took a deep breath, trying to hold back the tears that always came after he thought of the brutality left behind by Bonni and Klide. Then, to see the two teens bullet-riddled bodies... Knowing none of it had to have happened.

He crunk up the car and drove home to his little girl, praying, that Bonni and Klide's souls were with God, protected and loved.

Remember..... Listen to the Children!!!!!

The children are our future.....

Be careful how you treat them....

T. L. Henry

Acknowledgements:

I'd like to thank all the people who help children. Innocence is God's gift to us. Mold a child carefully and they will prosper. If not...bad things can happen.

A special, thanks goes to my best friend, love, editor, adviser, and publisher T. S. Conte. You are my angel.

## This for N. Dickens

T. L. Henry

ABOUT THE AUTHOR:

Our books were written to bring awareness to the abuse, exploitation, and neglect of children. Children are the world's future. If our books have helped just that one child, then, we've succeeded in our mission....And Remember, PLEASE, LISTEN TO THE CHILDREN!!!!!!!

T. L. Henry

More Books from T. L. Henry

The Life and Times of Tommy Kaos "Raising Hell" Book One

The Life and Times of Tommy Kaos "Hell on Wheels Book Two

The Life and Times of Tommy Kaos "Hell Bent"

Dirty Dee

Dirty Dirty Dee

Coming soon:

The Life and Times of Tommy Kaos "Hell Bound" Book Four

The Life and Times of Tommy Kaos "Heaven and Hell" Book Five

Hillbilly Hellions

Road to Ozzy

Dirty Deez Ballin'

Dirty Deez Nut's

Dirty Dees Deeds

Books available on Amazon.com

Inkitt.com

Goodreads.com

Smashwords.com

Check us out on https://www.tlhenry.net/
