 
"I had to share. So glad you listen to the heart of Christ." — a reader

LISTENING at COMPLINE

Light at the End of the Day

A collection of devotional encouragements

Melanie Hoover

© Copyright 2018 by Melanie Hoover

I have credited other writers for a few short quotes throughout.

Bible texts are based on the King James Version with my own

casual updating of Shakesperian-era spelling and grammar

to a more modern American English style.

All other original material herein may be quoted freely

without further request for my permission.

Published by Pelican Wings

Smashwords Edition

═════

Contents

Introduction

Emcouragements starting at 01

10 20 30 40

50 60 70 80

90 100 110 120

Afterword

Books by Melanie

═════

###  Introduction

Compline is an unfamiliar word for Christians not raised with historical church traditions and heritage. I practice it, but didn't really know the definition until I joined a church that had received what older generations handed down. It's been a really good spiritual discipline that I've come to value in the last few years.

Compline is a liturgy of evening prayers forming part of the daily Divine Office of the Western Christian Church. It is traditionally said (or chanted), in groups (for instance, in monasteries) or privately, before retiring for the night. (I find additional definitions that mention listening starting here and referring to the work carried on in my heart and mind throughout the day.)

I have been writing a sort of informal compline and posting it online each evening for several years. This year for Christmas my dear husband, Rick, decided that, since shopping is outside his reach, he wanted to make a compilation of my evening notes of encouragement and make it available online in ebook form for my Christmas gift.

As we've gotten older, figuring out what to give as Christmas gifts has gotten harder. We have all that we need and are cared for well, more than we can ever express in words. Our bodies are aging but our hearts are full and grateful. SO this is his gift and mine for you this Christmas 2018. We pray it will encourage your heart in the tough times and delight you in the good times. We all have them.

Melanie Hoover

December 2018

═════

The Encouragements

[1]

"Are you ready for Christmas?" is often code for, "Do you have all your shopping done?"

As Christians we prepare our hearts to receive the "gift" of the Holy God come down to man. God came to walk among us as He had not done since Adam in the garden. God came to restore relationship in His time and at His choosing.

God gave Mary a gift: a pregnancy, the promise of a son, a Savior named Jesus. Mary didn't really have much she could give to God but what she did have she gave. The only thing she had to offer was her life. Look at Luke 1:38, "I am the Lord's servant...May it be to me as you said." Her gift-giving involved two things.

1) Voluntary servanthood. A servant knows no rights of ownership. Mary is saying that she is the property of God.

2) Submissive obedience. This is radical commitment. Whatever God wants her to do, she is willing to do.

What is our commitment level when we read the Bible? What about when we hear the Word of the Lord telling us how to live? Are we listening, serving and submitting to God's will?

═════

[2]

We must work at our soul health, walk with the Lord, and get wisdom so we can have a word of encouragement from the Lord to share with others. We endeavor to share His faithfulness to us regularly. When we are faithful, others are blessed and we make a difference.

While working at our soul health, we also work at our physical health. Today we had our physicals. We had blood work done last week. We have AGE, but our bodies are healthy, just aging. Both of us were told our blood work was within range. Even our blood pressures were good. We got there at 9 and were home by 10.

BUT the most fun part xame as we were leaving the clinic. We ran into old friends, dear friends, and I actually cried for joy. This is the second time that's happened. Joy coinciding with a doctors visit. God is so good to us.

═════

[3]

Mark 16:15 He said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.

How can we give them what we don't know? It behooves us to learn what God has said in His Word and pass that on. But what we do is as important as what we say. Do our words and actions show that we belong to Jesus Christ?

═════

[4]

Our biggest problem comes from how we THINK about our difficult (or even good) 'circumstances', or how we PERCEIVE them.

We do not have the God's-eye view if we are not familiar with Scripture. We must know what God has said about His children and the provision He has made for us in Christ. All things that come to us as believers are for our benefit and the benefit of God's Kingdom right where we live.

If we move across country to avoid our problems, we take them along. God is the only source of provision and our redemption. If we do not know Him and continually seek His face and listen for His Voice in all of our circumstances we will be found wanting.

In the Lord's Prayer, Psalm 23, and other places, we are assured that God is with us, forgiving and giving and we should have no WANT. If we WANT Jesus more than anything, we will have all we need and have no want beyond that.

════

[5]

This was the first line of my thought for the day last evening.

"Our biggest problem comes from how we THINK about our difficult (or even good) circumstances, or how we PERCEIVE them."

I live by a very tight and rigid schedule. As a caregiver and not a well one most days, it keeps me sane and everything gets done. Problem #1, I was living in a perceived circumstance.

This week God did the wink-thing for me. Saturdays are the most taxing days generally, clean sheets, extra laundry, showers, etc. On Friday morning Rick got up and took his pillowcases off and put his PJs on the pile for washing. While he was shaving, he blurted, "Oh, it's only Friday."

I was still half asleep. "It's okay honey. I can do the sheets today. It's a lighter day."

Then it dawned! It was a simple fix, but I couldn't see it until then. God winked at us. TODAY the Saturday was a breeze. One less load of laundry and the bed was made yesterday. Saturdays just became a pleasure instead of an overwhelming last-minute-before-Sunday and the new week pressure-event!

I'm grateful, grateful, grateful. Thank you Jesus for the little things that make our days better!

═════

[6]

Leaning into Jesus, to be able to hear the whisper of His voice. This is the reason for listening for His voice. Our deepening relationship with Him this Christmas season is our goal.

═════

[7]

Colossians 3:16 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord.

A river must flow to stay fresh. We are not a pond or a lake. The life of Christ in us must flow through us outward to those around us. Water quenches thirst, it cleanses and purifies, it soothes and it invigorates. The question is, is my life touching others in ways that brings fresh living, life giving Spirit to their souls?

Karin: What a beautiful and powerful word. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Don't you love to think about that image?

═════

[8]

Providence noun. The protective care of God. "They found their trust in divine providence to be a source of comfort." "A life mapped out by providence."

I'm immersing myself in the life of the author George MacDonald of late and find we have a lot in common concerning the circumstances of life. God's Providence takes many different shapes in this world, but as a believer in God's great love, mercy, grace, and consistency, I have come to see that even in the tough stuff of life, He is constant and His Providence shows in protection, provision and the power to push through.

Isaiah 41:10 So do not fear, for I am with you; do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you and help you; I will uphold you with my righteous right hand.

Exodus 15:2 The Lord is my strength and my song; He has given me victory.

═════

[9]

II Timothy 4:8 There is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the Righteous Judge, shall give me at that day: and not to me only, but to all those also that love His appearing.

I have been crowned with goodness by my Heavenly Father. A crown awaits me. Lord let me be worthy to bow and return it to You on that day.

Psalm 16:7 I will praise the Lord, who counsels me; even at night my heart instructs me. 8 I keep my eyes always on the Lord. With him at my right hand, I will not be shaken. 9 Therefore my heart is glad and my mouth rejoices; my body also will rest secure.

═════

[10]

Acts 8:26 The angel of the Lord spoke unto Philip, saying, Arise, and go toward the south unto the way that goes down from Jerusalem unto Gaza, which is desert. 27 And he arose and went.

Do you sense God telling you to do something? Sometime the notion doesn't seem significant at the moment, but as we listen to the still small voice, it makes a big difference in the outcome of our days.

I am not always happy with my lack of listening/obedience skills.

It was a simple and unexplained thing the Lord told Phillip. "Take a slight detour." In the process, Christianity came to Africa. Little or big, to hear and obey is a good policy. If you've never done it before, give it a try. You never know what God may be up to, but I can guarantee it will be for His glory and the benefit of the Kingdom eternal.

═════

[11]

Isaiah 26:3 You will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on You: because he trusts in You. 4 Trust in the Lord for ever, for in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength.

I have become distracted over the last couple of weeks. It has become a real struggle to keep my focus. This Scripture from Isaiah gives me great hope that I will not lose spiritual ground. The distraction of the season was beginning to wear on me, and I know it's only temporary. I was letting the season become my focus.

In the busyness we need to remember He is giving us times of rest and we need to be listening in the quiet. God gives peace in spite of the hustle and bustle.

Trust in Him and be at peace. It's a choice we must make each and every day, in spite of what comes our way.

═════

[12]

The angel said, "Your prayer has been heard." (Luke 1:13)

What prayer? ALL of them. The prayers of your youth when you and Elizabeth wept together and sought God for a child. The prayers of resignation when you said, "If it be Thy will." The bitter prayers, too, when you could not understand why He didn't hear. Finally, the cry of a much older, wiser heart that pleaded that in some way the Almighty would permit your life to be a ministry to Him. He heard them.

ALL of them.

What seemed to be a divine "No", was actually only timing. Part of the plan.

Never give up! Never stop making yourself available for service! Never stop praying! You are not wasting your life, you are lending yourself to His plan.

(Written 30 years ago by missionary friend Marti Roman.)

Gina: What a good word - timing.

Jacqueline: Thanx (slap) I needed that!

═════

[13]

I never know what a day may bring. A quiet day of rest was awesome.

A friend came to visit Rick, so I used a coupon for supper out. After parking the car a ways from the door and heading into the restaurant, my eye caught the eye of a women already seated behind ther window and nearly done with supper. She smiled and something in me thought she knows Jesus!

The waitress quickly seated me at a table nearby, but with my back to the lady. I already knew what I wanted to eat and ordered. Then, as is my normal practice, I bowed my head and said a short prayer of thanks inaudibly. Just moments before my meal came the lady behind stepped up and said, "I knew it and when you prayed for your meal, it was confirmed."

We talked for just a couple minutes, and I now have a new name to add to the prayer list. We got right to the point. We are both in the "waiting room," the one that leads to whatever God wants next in our life. In the meantime, we are serving where we can.

Janet, it was great to meet you. God does have a plan. We will see and rejoice in hearing and following through with His plan.

God bless you.

═════

[14]

Revelation 2:7 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes I will give to eat from the tree of life.

I'm re-writing and editing Oswald Chambers from this morning's devotional. It has really hit me between the eyes and poked my heart/head sensibilities.

Life without a struggle is impossible. It is a fact. There is a continuing struggle in the physical, mental, moral, and spiritual areas of all our lives. To maintain good health we must have sufficient internal strength to fight the circumstances that come against us. If we have the inner strength to be persistent in the battle to either keep or regain what we have lost in the physical realm, we will get better. I am living proof. I want to maintain a strong and active mental life. It is a battle. BUT, in this struggle we have the Almighty as our source.

Morally it is the same. Morality does not happen by accident. Moral virtue is acquired through persistent conscious awareness of how we live our lives.

Spiritually it is the same.

Jesus said, "In the world you will have tribulation." We must learn, listen and obey the Word of God. Holiness comes with a disciplined determination to continue focus on right living. Holiness is the law of God as expressed in the life of Jesus Christ.

═════

[15]

In our circumstance it appears God might have something really fantastic on the horizon. We shall see. God's timing, not ours. It seems to us that life was taking a toll and time seemed to be running out. God answers, in HIS time, not ours, and it turns out to be pretty well done. Our job requirement is to minister life and faith to others in such away that faith is built in them, and God is honored above all in the process.

It would be a stressful position if it were not that the calling is from the Lord. Our assignment is from God and He alone is our provision. The opportunity to be a huge blessing for a others can be stressful if God is not in it. There is work involved, but it is the work of the Kingdom and we are blessed to be able to continue. Rick is able to write everyday and is thriving on it. Health is still an issue for us both, but we are so grateful to be together as we walk and continue to serve where we can.

Jacqueline: Just when you think maybe everything has moved on....but God! He is so full of surprises!

═════

[16]

Advent is a season observed in liturgical Christian churches as a time of expectant waiting and preparation for the celebration of the birth of Jesus at Christmas. The term is an Anglicized version of the Latin word adventus, meaning coming.

The calendar for the liturgical church year begins with Advent (four weeks before Christmas). We light the Advent candles each week in the church service and very often we also have Advent calendars in our homes, in great anticipation of His coming.

This is my favorite prophecy. He is all this and more.

Isaiah 9:6 For to us a Child is born, to us a Son is given, and the government will be on His shoulders. And He will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace 7 Of the greatness of His government and peace there will be no end. He will reign on David's throne and over His kingdom, establishing and upholding it with justice and righteousness from that time on and forever. The zeal of the Lord Almighty will accomplish this.

═════

[17]

I've been exploring the traditions behind the Jewish festal calendar and the Christian calendar.

The Jewish tradition, of course, is marked by the longing for a Messiah who will set things right for the Jewish people and, through them, the whole world.

Drawing on that same yearning, we Christians spend Advent waiting for the birth of the Messiah. We believe He has a name — Jesus Christ — and has already made Himself known. The fully human, fully divine Jesus accomplished through His life, death, and resurrection the reconciliation of the world to God. As we live in the now-but-not-yet time between when Jesus accomplished this and when it will be fulfilled, Advent connects us with our longing for a Redeemer. In fact, the word advent means arrival or coming. Both Jews and Christians look back even as we anticipate a future fulfillment.

Karin: This reflection is absolutely beautiful, Melanie. Your faith is a great encouragement to me.

═════

[18]

The information and testimony that God gives in His Word, the Holy Scriptures, DIRECTLY establishes the FACTS. There is nothing circumstantial about God. The Father, Son and Holy Spirit are truth, life, the only way, not made but always existent.

We can fight this plan but one day we will still bow before our Maker and the evidence will not be circumstantial but reality. The Scripture tells us:

1 Corinthians 13:12 For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part; but then shall I know even as also I am known.

═════

[19]

Romans 7:21 I find then a law, that, when I would do good, evil is present with me.

I love the Confession in the Book of Common Prayer that reads: "Almighty God, Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, Maker of all things, Judge of all men; we acknowledge and bewail our manifold sins and wickedness which we, from time to time, most grievously have committed by thought, word and deed against Thy Divine Majesty, provoking most justly Thy wrath and indignation against us. We do earnestly repent and are heartily sorry for these our misdoings."

I love that Confession.

But I hate that Confession. I get so tired of sin.

The Puritans prayed, "Oh my Lord, may I arrive where I need no more to weep or watch or be tempted. Where nothing defiles, where there is no grief, sorrow, sin, separation, tears, or consuming cares. Where there is personal completeness. Where the more perfect the sight, the more beautiful the object. The more perfect the appetite, the sweeter the food. The more complete the soul, the more happy its joys, where there is full knowledge of Thee."

Deb : We were all born outta sin or w/ a sinful nature and I agree w/ you. You reminded me the other day - LIGHT & SALT. Lately I've been struggling. MY light is huge...love Jesus like he was my husband. He's my everything. He completes me.... however the SALT. To be in this world but not become of it. OUCH! That's what I need to work on to keep my walk in obedience and order!

═════

[20]

Psalm 1:1 Blessed is the man that walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful. 2 But his delight is in the law of the Lord; and in His law does he meditate day and night. 3 And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that brings forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not wither; and whatever he does shall prosper. 4 The ungodly are not so: but are like the chaff which the wind drives away. 5 Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. 6 For the Lord knows the way of the righteous: but the way of the ungodly shall perish.

This is one of my favorite Psalms. You have both sides of the spiritual coin in very plain language. IF you do this, THIS will happen. IF you do otherwise, THIS will happen. IF we want to be blessed, we are not to walk in the counsel, the thinking, of the world, the ungodly, sinners, and the scornful.  
IF we live a holy life, living by the Word of the Lord, thinking about His will and doing it, we will be blessed.

This does not mean that we isolate ourselves from the world, because then we aren't doing the job of salt and light. We are the flavor of God and the light of Christ to those who live in the darkness. We just don't make the world our bosom buddy and take on the habits of the world. We do not compromise our witness. IF we put our minds to the things of this world, we are going to blow away in a storm, like the house built on the sand. Chaff is the outside layer/hull of the grain and it is paper thin with no weight whatsoever. It blows away with a breath. The wicked will perish, but God has His hand on His children and will protect, direct and guide as we listen for His voice and obey.

═════

[21]

Each evening before I head to bed I wait for a word to come to my mind. The word tonight was "order."

Psalm 37:23 The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord: and He delights in his way.

Each day has many more things that need doing than I have energy to do. Planning ahead and keeping things orderly in every activity make the days go much better. So many things are on our agenda. Our minds are cluttered with stuff: jobs, family, friends, and sometimes even the lack of health physical, mental or spiritual.

Because I go to bed each night with prayer, I awake refreshed. Listening to the Lord speak through my devotional time bears fruit when I wake, giving me clarity for the day and all that needs to be done.

Taking time to communicate with the Lord all through the day, especially giving Him the first and best part of my day, gives me peace and direction. He will guide. Listen to THE still small voice.

We can't hear Him in the hustle, if we haven't been listening in the quiet.

═════

[22]

"The great movement of the spiritual life is from a deaf, non-hearing life to 'a life of listening.' From a life in which we experience ourselves as separated, isolated, and lonely to a life in which we hear the guiding and healing voice of God, Who is with us and will never leave us alone." — Henri Nouwen

I was trying to hear but have had an earache for four days. Went to the walk-in clinic. Swimmers ear.

I haven't been swimming.

Prescribed was an outrageously priced antibiotic and warm damp washcloth. I decided since it was Sunday and I was already out, I would get to church at the 8:50. I felt better just going to church and then had the healing team pray for me.

I came home and by time I had finished making lunch and called to see if the Rx was ready, my ear was ALREADY better! It has been good all the rest of the day and is still tonight. How's them apples? Canceled the Rx and am going to bed with a grateful heart and a hearing, listening ear.

═════

[23]

Isaiah 26:3 Thou oh Lord, will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on You: because he trusts in You.4 Trust in the Lord for ever: for in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength!

I have become distracted over the last couple days due to health issues. It has become a real struggle to keep my focus. The distraction of my health is beginning to wear on me, and I know it's only temporary. It is a recurring problem when diet and schedule get out of sync. I feel anxious about letting others down, and more particularly letting the Lord down.

We sometimes forget in our zeal and fervor for spiritual excellence in our own lives, that God has placed us in a natural world He created for our pleasure, leisure and daily life, to enjoy, be grateful and at peace.

In the busyness I need to remember He is giving me a time of rest and I need to listen in the quiet. God has helped in spite of the circumstances. I WILL trust Him!

It's a choice each must make every day, in spite of what comes our way.

═════

[24]

Prayer is an attitude, it is abandonment and attentiveness. Our heart attitude must be centered in devotion to the Lord. We must abandon ourselves to His grace and mercy and be ATTENTIVE!

If I were to say to someone, "Pay attention!" they would look at me, right? This is where I see the absolute truth of these postures in prayer. We look to Him with our hearts in right relationship, totally committed, and we listen. If we hear and obey, nothing in this world can overtake us. There will be surprises, but not destruction.

These verses come to mind.

II Corinthians 4:7 But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God, and not of us. 8 We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but not in despair; 9 Persecuted, but not forsaken; cast down, but not destroyed; 10 Always bearing about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our body.

═════

[25]

Psalm 113:5 Who is like unto the Lord our God, who dwells on high, 6 Who humbles Himself to behold the things that are in heaven, and in the earth! 7 He raises up the poor out of the dust, and lifts the needy out of the dunghill; 8 That He may set him with princes, even with the princes of His people. 9 He makes the barren woman to keep house, and to be a joyful mother of children.

The only way to get to know more about God is to spend the time. As we spend time in "the presence," we begin to love being there. It is in His presence that we start to know Him, and then like the Psalmist we only start to understand, and are in awe of Him. God reveals Himself in our daily lives, speaking to us through His Word.

Who can know all about God? We can't. But after spending quality time with Him, we begin to see, although dimly, His love and mercy has "stolen" our affection. We are "smitten" with His blessings, provision and redemption. This makes me grateful beyond thankful.

═════

[26]

Romans 2:4 Do you despise the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-suffering; not knowing that the goodness of God leads us to repentance?

Sometimes "kindness" doesn't look that way to us. But God has given us His Word, His Spirit and His people, to help us to not fall in a ditch, or get run over by a bus. If we recognize that God is in control of our life, that He has our back, we will be grateful for the kindnesses that don't quite suit us.

[27]

Discomfited. (This is the Old English for uncomfortable.)

Rick and I often have our best conversations at breakfast while he is still fresh from resting. This morning I began with "I am discomfited, but comforted." He said, "I get that."

Throughout the last 4+ years comfort, physical comfort has been on the wane. The 3 score and 10 years have begun to show in our faces and in the wear on our bodies. We weren't able to get to church for the second week in a row. This portion of Scripture came to mind.

II Corinthians 1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, 4 who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. 5 For as we share abundantly in Christ's sufferings, so through Christ we share abundantly in comfort too. 6 If we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation; and if we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which you experience when you patiently endure the same sufferings that we suffer. 7 Our hope for you is unshaken, for we know that as you share in our sufferings, you will also share in our comfort.

Find comfort dear ones in knowing He is here to comfort you.

═════

[28]

Psalm 103:1 Bless the Lord, O my soul: and all that is within me, bless His holy name. 2 Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all His benefits; 3 Who forgives all thine iniquities; Who heals all thy diseases; 4 Who redeems thy life from destruction; Who crowns thee with loving kindness and tender mercies; 5 Who satisfies thy mouth with good things; so that thy youth is renewed like the eagle's. 6 The Lord executes righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed.

Jesus continues today to forgive sin, heal disease and redeem lives from destruction. How encouraging to read the Scripture and be lifted up in our spirits. If you are oppressed, depressed or even possessed, God is able to heal, save and deliver. Bless the Lord with your whole soul and see what God can and will do in and for us as we come in humility and repentance. Then as we listen and obey, He will send us to go tell what great things He has done for us.

═════

[29]

Jeremiah 32:27 Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh, is anything too difficult for Me?

The Word of God is alive. We need to read, study, and inwardly digest the promises as well as the instruction and warnings. Turning our lives over to Jesus is the only thing that keeps us from the ravages of the world today. Continue walking with Him, listening for His voice in the din of your daily life.

Watch and see what He will do in your life, in this new season.

═════

[30]

Our lives are not our own once we give our hearts, minds and bodies to His will and service. He will keep His loving hand us in all of our circumstances and our job is easy. Just keep the house clean!

It's a constant work. I vacuum and mop and do dishes and cook and do laundry in our physical home. Why would I not do similar things in my soul and heart that will make them a pleasant place for Jesus to dwell? Suck out all that discontent and wash the garbage away and take it out with the trash. We don't keep trash in the house. It stinks! That's what the outdoor bin is for. Why would we allow trash in our spirit, heart and mind? Keep it clean and think on these things.

Philippians 4:6 Be careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God. 7And the peace of God, which passes understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus.

Karin: Another powerful reminder of who we are not, and in whose arms we are held. "Leaning..."

Carol: Oh Melanie, that is so perfect for me today - thanks!!

═════

[31]

Mark 6:56 Wherever He entered, into villages, or cities, or country, they laid the sick in the streets, and besought Him that they might touch if it were but the border of His garment: and as many as touched Him were made whole.

When we read the Gospel account this morning in our devotion time together, it was the story of the woman who touched the hem of Jesus garment and was instantly healed.

God led Jesus through the land of Israel to heal wounded broken children. With the hem of His garment in reach, Jesus was walking through, threading His way along the streets, where the people were living in a wilderness of ill health, sin and sorrow. All they had to do was respond, reach out and touch Jesus as He passed by.

In our wilderness, Jesus is still making a way for us. Reach out to Him TODAY!

═════

[32]

Matthew 22:37 Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. 38 This is the first and great commandment. 39 And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.

Who is my neighbor? Jesus tells the story of the Good Samaritan. The neighbor is the one who saw a stranger in need and took care of him. When we see someone in need we too should be willing to help. Some can do more than others, but a prayer is always a good response. A verbal encouragement... a hug... sometimes more. Always use wisdom and discernment as to what God would have you do. A person may think they know what they need or want, but God can and will direct you to the proper response.

═════

[33]

When I read a Scripture I'm in awe at what God spoke into being. He did it all, made it, formed it, created it, and established all the seas and the mountains and the stars and planets. Do not lose your the awe of God. He is righteous and requires something of us, because we will bow and we will confess Him one day.

The requirements are not a burden, but protection for our life and our hearts. Like the mother who says, "Don't touch that hot stove." God has given some rules (Exodus 20). They are few but He sees whether we have listened and obeyed. We will give an account.

Don't try to figure out how to get out of a ditch. Call a tow truck! In another words, when your circumstances overwhelm you, on whom do you call? We must call on the Lord.

We do not need more knowledge or even understanding. We need to learn to trust God in all matters of our lives. Jesus is the solid rock on which we place all our issues. We tend to want to make sense of everything and have complete understanding. As we live for Jesus, He doesn't always explain. In fact, seldom do we find the answers that satisfy our need to know! It's because we don't need to know so much.

Travis: That's good stuff!

Linda: I agree with Travis!

═════

[34]

II Samuel 22:31 As for God, His way is perfect; the word of the Lord is tried.

The Lord's word is flawless, and we must keep feeding and nurturing ourselves with the Word, prayer, and thanksgiving. It doesn't matter what comes your way, no matter how long it takes. Be patient and wait on Him.

When we get impatient we try to help God. We get antsy. God doesn't need our help! He needs our faithfulness, a listening ear, and obedience. Yes, we do work with God, but we must remember that He is the One who promotes and demotes along with opening doors and closing them.

I Corinthians 4:2 Moreover it is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful.

═════

[35]

How are you praying for your loved ones? There could be no better request than asking the Lord to give them an abundance of His grace, His mercy, and His peace

═════

[36]

Just spent a few minutes hugging Rick after he ate supper. Hugging him from the back as he sat. Kissing the base of his head, the brain stem. Praying and kissing to make it better. Four years ago was the event that changed our life.

I have mixed feelings. Horror and joy! In all things we are thankful. It's been an interesting day to day experience. Difficult in many ways but blessed in so many other ways. We are grateful to be here together and thank God daily for the opportunities we still have to be effective witnesses of God's presence and provision. God's own children have walked with us and many times FOR us when we couldn't go anymore. Thank you for your prayers as we are still walking, slower but still on the march forward in our faith.

Jack: Keep walking, keep walking, keep walking... you will reach the goal that our God has set for you... JUST A COUPLE MORE STEPS, Keep walking....

═════

[37]

Romans 1:20 For the invisible things of Him since the creation of the world are clearly seen, being perceived through the things that are made, even his everlasting power and divinity; that they may be without excuse. 21 Because, knowing God, they didn't glorify him as God, neither gave thanks,but became vain in their reasoning, and their senseless heart was darkened.

We harden our hearts by our own volition. We begin to believe all that we see and hear in the world around us. We let our hearts and minds become clouded by the message of the world. All the influences of this life close in on us when we ignore the Truth or — even worse — deny Truth.

We indeed can know the invisible things of the Spirit of God by perceiving the physical world around us. (Romans 1:20) We must honestly acknowledge that only a superior being could have created all that we see and know. Our bodies, even our eye, has so intricate a construction that if any single part of it fails we can be blind. God made all that is and human reason cannot change the facts. Science does indeed agree sooner or later that something or someone outside our natural realm has created all.

Romans 2:14 Indeed, when Gentiles, who do not have the law, do by nature things required by the law, they are a law for themselves, even though they do not have the law. 15 They show that the requirements of the law are written on their hearts, their consciences also bearing witness, and their thoughts sometimes accusing them and at other times even defending them.

═════

[38]

Relationship Restoration.

God is looking to be in communion with YOU and ME. In our growing relationship with the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, are we being reconciled to Him and to one another? The witness of restored relationship with our Creator is how the church survives.

Our daily witness is why we are here. Our witness is to be seen. Let us be a true witness of the love of Christ to the world. By our love for one another, the world will see that we belong to God.

═════

[39]

II Corinthians 12:7b There was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure... 10 Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake: for when I am weak, then am I strong.

Pain gets our attention.

I'd be sleeping now if it weren't for pain. I forget that although my health has improved immensely, I'm still fighting with the Lyme disease and age! We all have some thorn that only Jesus can redeem, but the thorn may never be taken away. It may be a thorn that keeps us humble, or weak, or frail, but in our weakness we learn to depend on and listen closer to the Lord. If we were delivered from our thorn (pain) we wouldn't have to stay so close to Him. If the pain of the thorn were less we could get by with ignoring it some, but the ever-present thorn, whatever it may be, keeps our hearts and mind stayed on Jesus.

I think there are a lot of us who are going to walk up to the Apostle Paul when we get to Heaven and say, "I don't know what your thorn was, but thank God for the thorn in my life. It brought me here!"

═════

[40]

Scripture is the true content of our internal compass. The words you are now reading are colored by my environment and training. There will be different insights from someone that has grown up and been educated in a different environment and spiritual training.

A worldview, the external compass, will help us. But even though the newest technology can manage to get us to our destinations on the ground, IF we don't follow the instructions we are lost.

Being able to discern between right and almost right, needs the Biblical internal compass and the ability to understand and follow God's directions.

Heavenly Father tonight I ask for wisdom, discernment and a true, holy, internal compass for those in authority and for us who must make daily choices to follow Your direction. In Jesus Name I pray.

Misty: I had to share. So glad you listen to the heart of Christ.

═════

[41]

Romans 12:1 I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service..2 And be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God.

Even the smallest child understands transformation. They probably own at least one "Transformer." The concept is not unfamiliar and not difficult to understand. But to be transformed we must know the Word of God.

God loved us and sent His Son. Jesus loved us so much He obeyed His Father to His death. We must love one another. It is the offering of our life in love that is a real sacrifice to God. Jesus said that we would be known as His own, by our love for one another.

God calls for our obedience. Let us obey as Jesus obeyed and love as He did without malice toward one another.

═════

[41]

Life doesn't always go as smoothly as we would like. The car breaks down and doesn't work like we want. We get older and our bodies don't work like we want.

As believers in Christ Jesus, we have a refuge and a fortress. (Psalm 91) We have Jesus, who suffered great loss, including the loss of His life, yet held steady to the end. We have great blessings if we have Jesus and the family of God. BUT even if all we have is Jesus we are most comforted.

I know someone who frets about everything, making themselves and everyone around them miserable. "No one can help, no one will help, woe is me," is their constant conversation. It saddens me for them. This Scripture tells me all I need to know, because I have Jesus!

Psalm 37:25 I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken or His seed begging for bread.

═════

[42]

Every day God wants us to be aware of His presence. Do we get up and get off to work or play without His knowledge?

When life seems overwhelming and out of control, it is not so easy to just stop, remember that He is there, and not a bit surprised with the circumstances. Are we doing what is right or reasonable in our own eyes? Turn eyes, ears and focus back on Jesus. It's not always comfortable to admit we are going our own way.

Although the following verse says I am to commit my way, I find that it is as important to SUBMIT. Submission is necessary in relationship. There is commitment in marriage and friendship, but the submitting to one another, preferring one another is the best way to keep our relationships strong.

Having a listening ear and a humble heart reminds me all the circumstances of life are in His control, and we are safe there.

Psalm 37:5 Commit thy way unto the Lord; trust also in him; and he shall bring it to pass.

═════

[43]

II Timothy 3:5 Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof: from such turn away. 6 For of this sort are they which creep into houses, and lead captive silly women laden with sins, led away with divers lusts, 7 Ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth.

Jesus said, "I AM THE TRUTH." You can carry more upper case letters behind your name than in your name and still not know THE TRUTH.

I love the program Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader? I lose often, but not at the expense of my soul. Just my ego. EGO is deadly when we think that we are something or we know more than others. We run the deadly risk of serving ego, our "knowledge," and not THE TRUTH.

═════

[44]

I am awake at 4am.

Having heard all my life that "actions speak louder than words" (there are more than 70 quotes online to that effect) I strongly disagree! WORDS can kill the spirit of a person just as quickly as an act of violence. We have watched the talking heads of recent days destroy without lifting a finger. We do the same to each other and to our spouses and children.

Kindness with our words can be a healing balm. Kindness can change the atmosphere in a room and in our world. Yes there is wickedness, but we don't have to participate. Our true kind WORDS matter. They show the intent of our heart, as well, and sometimes much better than anything we do. Think this verse over.

Proverbs 18:21 Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and those who love it will eat its fruits.

═════

[45]

I have no excuse. I did not post last night because my bed was calling me. But there is something worth my effort every day to encourage others who are plodding yet plunging through to joy and peace.

2 Cor. 12:9 He said to me, "My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in WEAKNESS." Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that Christ's power may rest on me. 10 That is why, for Christ's sake, I delight in weaknesses, in insults, in hardships, in persecutions, in difficulties. For when I am weak, then I am strong.

═════

[46]

Psalm 18:31 For who is God save the Lord? or who is a rock save our God? 32 It is God that girds me with strength, and makes my way perfect. 33 He makes my feet like hinds' feet, and sets me upon my high places.

I enjoy reading this Scripture lesson. It refreshes my memory and instills a greater faith. God is perfect and true. He shields us. He is the refuge, the rock who makes us safe and steady. He equips us with strength and helps us to walk blameless before Him. He keeps us from stumbling and lifts us up higher, above the turmoil. No matter the circumstances He holds us in the palm of His hand. He trains us, by His Word, to do battle against the world, the devil and our own fleshly nature.

Karin: You are rocking my world with the wonderful scriptures you share as well as your reflections. Who is a rock but our God?! "He hideth my soul in the cleft of the rock..." How can we keep from singing?

═════

[47]

I am concerned about those who believe they don't really need to come to Jesus yet. They have more time to live and want to get the most out of it.

The problems I see: #1, Where did that bus come from?

And #2, You call that living?

#3 and the most important:

Matthew 24:42 Watch, be aware! You don't know what hour your Lord will come.

When we are young we feel we are invincible and that we can do anything. As we age, things change. Sometimes a deadly illness takes us or life just makes us miserable. Our consolation is coming. Jesus will come again and take us to our heavenly home. This is the hope we have in Him.

Hebrews 6:18 By two unchangeable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have taken refuge would have strong encouragement to take hold of the hope set before us. 19 This hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast.

═════

[48]

Hebrews 4:9 There remains therefore a rest to the people of God.

Today I needed rest. A rest from the battle we have with ourselves in our natural man that wants to do whatever is right in our own eyes.

Daily I am amazed at what God plans for the schedule, if I let Him. I do have to be still and that means my mouth. When I am quiet, I hear better, don't you? Listening even now, I hear the Lord say, "Peace and rest. You need a Sabbath rest."

It has been a busy year already, filled with much physical and emotional loss. Grief and overwork can make one quite tired. So I turn to God's Word and find it's okay to take a rest, get away from the crowd, weep if necessary and enjoy the peace that comes from just being with Jesus.

I feel better now and much rested in spirit and body! God's hands are the place to be.

═════

[49]

The world is full of troublesome attractions. Some are deadly poisonous, dangerous, weeds, and sins that can choke our soul and witness.

Applying weed killer doesn't finish the job in the yard, believe me. Even pulling up by the roots, digging around and making sure that the whole thing is pulled up is not always going to work. Sometimes there are hidden roots running around in the edges of your mind just like in the ground. They will spring up to try to overtake you again.

Dig them out again. You are not alone, take heart.

John 16:33 These things I have spoken unto you, that in Me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.

═════

[50]

John 5:19 Verily, verily, I say to you, The Son can do nothing of Himself, but what He sees the Father do: for what ever things He does, these also does the Son.

Can you see God at work in and through the circumstances of those around you and yourself?

I am encouraged daily in my faith walk because in listening to God's call I find comfort and assurance that He's not finished with me yet. He has more for me to contribute to His Kingdom and the family, the body of Christ. Doing what God calls us to do means we will finish well.

═════

[51]

Jeremiah 10:23 O Lord, I know that the way of man is not in himself: it is not in man that walks to direct his steps.

This 10th chapter of Jeremiah is all about following the crowd, the world, and its wisdom. In the second verse God tells His people, "Don't learn the ways of the world or follow them." It will bring judgment in the end.

Any time we pick up a newspaper or listen to the TV or radio, we can hear and see the evil that is in the world, the darkness of mankind's evil thoughts and deeds. Jesus is the LIGHT, the only WAY, TRUTH Himself.

John 3:19 This is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil.

═════

[52]

God sees us and is constantly vigilant. If our circumstances come about by our own wrong choices, He will let us know. Make no mistake, we were given by God the responsibility to respond to salvation and keep our souls attentive to His Word and laws. Every knee shall bow.

═════

[53]

God forgives and provides opportunity for redemption. He gives us the insight into our failing, forgives us, and then provides the foresight in the next circumstance. Satan on the other hand whips us with you shoulda and you're a failure. Recognize the difference and put your life and particularly your thought life in the hands of the Lord.

Judas, when the recognition came to him that he had betrayed the Lord of life, listened to Satan and went out and hung himself.

Peter, when the same recognition came to him, remembered that Jesus had told him that Satan would sift him, but Jesus was praying for him. Peter went out and wept bitterly that he had betrayed his Master. He was forgiven and was then able to minister to others and encourage them.

Jesus is making intercession for us this moment at the right hand of the Father in Heaven. Do not despair. Do not give up. Our Savior is working on our behalf in spite of how our circumstances appear. He still has the last word. Let us be willing and able witnesses of our faith in Jesus Christ.

═════

[54]

Genesis 1:26 God said, Let us make man in Our image, after Our likeness: and let them have dominion... over everything... 27 So God created man in His own image, in the image of God created He him; male and female created He them.

The writer of Hebrews tells us that we need to listen so we don't slip up and mess up. Transgression and disobedience brought Adam and Eve death. My guess is that because they didn't die the minute they ate the forbidden fruit, they thought maybe they had gotten away with something. Since we are in an after-the-fact position, we see the results of their rebellion as well as our own.

God still wants us to be in relationship with Him. He is always speaking to us, but we don't listen well. My whole goal is to learn to LISTEN well and obey. God is speaking in the minute matters of our day. He has given us dominion and the instruction on how to handle the responsibility. We cannot do life by ourselves. We need Him. Let us not neglect our relationship and lose our reward. My reward will be most glorious, if I hear "Well done, good and faithful servant."

═════

[55]

Psalm 28:1 Unto Thee will I cry, O Lord my rock; be not silent to me: lest, if Thou be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit. 2 Hear the voice of my supplications, when I cry unto Thee, when I lift up my hands....

David understood that there was NO other refuge. The word supplication implies to ask humbly or earnestly, as by praying, making a humble entreaty. In our lives we come to serious crossroads where there is no place else to go or turn. I believe God arranges those circumstances to give us opportunity to seek Him.

There are those who would argue with me about this, but my theology is found in the traditions and experiences I see in the Bible itself. What about the man who was born blind? This was not a child, but a man, an adult who had lived his whole life blind. Jesus gave him sight for God's glory. The disciples asked Jesus if the man sinned or his parents, and is that why he is blind? Jesus said,

John 9:3 Neither has this man sinned, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in him.

God does arrange our circumstances to get our attention.

═════

[56]

God gave us a choice. Adam and Eve had a choice and each of us make our choices based on what is in our heart. If we choose to honor God with our life, we will fill our hearts and minds with the will of God, shown to us in the Word of God. We will keep our conscience clear and clean. We will repent regularly and be watchful of our attitudes and be wholly dependent on the Grace and Mercy of God. There is a fine balance on our part as we live in this world. We must be careful what we ingest spiritually. What we feed our spiritual eternal man, our thinking, our vision, our hearing, is paramount.

Psalm 101:3 I will set no evil thing before my eyes.

What changes are we going to have to make, that will enable us to listen to and obey more clearly God's plan and will for us as witnesses of the Gospel?

═════

[57]

Ephesians 4:24 Put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness.25 Wherefore putting away lying, speak every man truth with his neighbor: for we are members one of another. 26 Be ye angry, and sin not: let not the sun go down upon your wrath: 27 Neither give place to the devil.

The world is full of "button pushers," people living out their philosophies, their habits, their conversations, all pushing our buttons.

Who steals our peace and why do we let them? Do we not all answer to our Creator? Are we not behaving ourselves in a manner worthy of our Christian testimony? The searchlight has been turned on to help us recognize truth. It's a signal to respond with grace, keeping the peace that only Jesus can give.

═════

[58]

God supports us and is gentle and kind. He guides our steps.

Psalm 32:8 I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go, I will counsel you with my eye upon you.

He lights our way one step at a time (Psalm 119:105) and we do not slip. But should we fall (Psalm 27:34) He will lift us up again.

God teaches us something from His Word every time (yes I mean EVERY time) we read it IF we are attentive. He will give us something to chew on for the whole day but we must be listening with our spiritual ears to the still small whisper that sounds like it's just behind us a bit.

Isaiah 30:21 And your ears shall hear a word behind you, saying, "This is the way, walk in it," when you turn to the right or when you turn to the left.

═════

[59]

I John 3:1 Behold, what manner of love the Father has bestowed on us, that we should be called the sons of God: therefore the world knows us not, because it knew Him not. 2 Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it does not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when He shall appear, we shall be like Him; for we shall see Him as He is. 3 And every man that has this hope in Him purifies himself, even as He is pure.

We see that we must be humble and regard God as God, not a waiter or bellboy. Purity is this quality. Being righteous in all we do and say is what God requires of us. I love the old-fashioned word "Behold." It means to see or observe a thing or person, especially, a remarkable or impressive one. The synonyms are: to view, look at, witness, gaze upon, regard, contemplate, inspect, watch and take note of. How should we then live?

═════

[60]

Interconnected, a word about relationships, I would like to use now because all scripture is connected throughout and not just the New Testament. ALL Scripture is about one thing. The thing, the principle, is to bring us as human-beings-without-God back into relationship with Him. What we lost in the Garden through disobedience we regain by one man's obedience, Jesus Christ the sinless Son of God, wholly God and wholly man. We are reconciled by His sacrifice on the cross and through the resurrection. We can again come into right relationship with the Father Who created and loves us.

I want to stay connected.

See you in church!

═════

[61]

After dealing with pain and its crippling effects, I have become aware that I am closer to God and more aware of His presence. When we must to talk God, we change. When the pain is gone and we no longer have to draw on the strength that only comes from Him and we can go about life without thought of every move, we do not hear the voice of the Lord as keenly as we did when in pain. Pain gives us a more focused sense of hearing and often makes us who God intended us to be.

God is in control. The pain is passing and we have a hope of greater glory. I am a firm believer in praying for and receiving healing, so make no mistake, I am not dissing God's power to heal. But His omniscience trumps my knowledge and yours. He is God and we are not! He has a plan and we must learn to trust Him.

Denise: Thanks Melanie, I needed that today.

═════

[62]

Psalm 18:30 As for God, His way is perfect: the word of the Lord is tried: He is a shield to all those that trust in Him. 31 For who is God save the Lord? or who is a rock save our God? 32 It is God that girds me with strength, and makes my way perfect. 33 He makes my feet like hinds' feet, and sets me upon my high places.

I enjoy reading this Scripture lesson often. It refreshes my memory and instills a greater faith. God is perfect and true. He shields us. He is the refuge, the rock Who makes us safe and steady. He equips us with strength and helps us to walk blameless before Him. He keeps us from stumbling and lifts us up higher, above the turmoil. No matter the circumstances He holds us in the palm of His hand.

═════

[63]

Our assessment of life as people of God needs to be a visible, positive report of the grace, mercy and love of the Lord. We need to give and be the good report, seen as witnesses of God's work in this world today. Remember what God has done for us. His provision, salvation, healing and deliverance is something we should gladly announce to the watching world.

When we do these things, even if the world mocks, God will crown us with loving kindness and mercy. He will feed us and strengthen us.

If you are oppressed, depressed or even possessed, God is able to heal, save and deliver. Bless Him. Bless the Lord with your whole soul and all that is in you. Bless His holy name. See what God can and will do in us and for us as we come to Him in humility and repentance.

═════

[64]

Isaiah 43:2 When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and through the rivers, they will not overflow you: when you walk through the fire, you will not be burned; neither will the flame kindle on you. 3 For I am the Lord your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. 4 Since you are precious in My sight, you have been honorable, and I have loved you. 5 Fear not: for I am with you.

When we go through tough rough things in this life, our plight is better than we know. If we are following Jesus and putting our trust in God, He gives us miles of assurance that He is with us and will go with us through the flood and the fire because we are His and precious in His sight.

When we sing Jesus Loves Me the second to the last line repeats that "we are precious in His sight, Jesus loves the little children of the world." We are His creation, created for His glory to have a relationship with Him. Our obedience and our listening ear are what He has asks. These words of Scripture are a great comfort in time of trouble and sorrow. These words are only the tip of the mountain of promises God made to those who love and walk according to His Word.

Karin: Again, you have meditated on a passage that is very precious to me. These promises have spoken deeply to my heart and seen me through countless struggles. "What have I to fear, Leaning on the everlasting arms."

═════

[65]

Sleep well...

There is peace in the midst of a storm when we can hear the still small voice of the Lord in our heart, giving comfort, peace and direction for the day. God's Word promises are for the today we face. Don't worry, fret, or be anxious about tomorrow because tomorrow will take care of itself. There is enough evil in each day. God promises to walk through them with us.

John 14:27 Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you: not as the world gives, do give I to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.

Sally: Wow! I so needed to see this. Thank you Melanie.

═════

[66]

Today was a warm humid day. I had a cup of coffee for breakfast, a few blueberries and a bit of yogurt. Then I got busy with life. By the time I was able to get a drink, I drank a whole bottle of water straight down, so thirsty!

Without Jesus or access to Him, we can dry up spiritually in a very short time and the only rescue is the Savior Himself. It takes getting into His presence and drinking the quality spiritual life that only He can provide. If you miss church one week you don't notice so much. But if you miss two weeks you should begin to get thirsty. We will miss this Sunday after making it six weeks in a row. We wish we could be there.

If there is something wrong with a person's physical body and they don't get thirsty, they are probably not well, will get dehydrated and end up in the hospital. Our body needs water; we're mostly made of water.

If you aren't in fellowship for awhile, and don't recognize your need for The Living Water, you might need to check in with Dr. Jesus to see what the problem is. Your spiritual man might be ill!

Roger: Need more prayer and coffee!

═════

[67]

Galatians 5:22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, KINDNESS, goodness, faith, 23 gentleness and self-control.

The heart of this scripture is KINDNESS. Look and see how it covers all the basics of the four fruit kinds of before and the four after. Central to our focus is the love of Jesus, which came in the many references to His COMPASSION, which is love in action.

Fruit does not come without WORK! It will be puny and unusable, seedy, too tart, non-existent, woody. Plant the right plants. Cultivate, water, fertilize, protect, and prune to produce more and better fruit.

═════

[68]

If we want God to change the desires of our hearts, we cannot put ourselves back into bondage by returning to a list of do's and don'ts because it seems easier to follow. It is easier and less scary than building our relationship with Jesus because He knows us. The deepest secrets of our hearts are open to Him. But there is great freedom in relationship with Jesus. Obeying His will is being free.

═════

[69]

Today was a good day of rest for me and it was needed. When we are worn and weary, in physical, emotional and, yes, even spiritual pain, God wants to break through the pain, hurt, sorrow and guilt. He sent Jesus to stand in for us and be with us to comfort and guide. Serve Him with joy and contentment. Let us not focus on our pain or problems (circumstances), but broaden our vision to see the hope we have in Christ Jesus, the hope of salvation. We live happier, healthier lives because of what He has done for us and in us.

═════

[70]

Seeking first the Kingdom, finding the treasure and the pearl of great price, is the hope we have in Jesus our Savior. We may have a myopic view of life, seeing only with our natural or fleshly eyes and getting a small view. But to see what God is doing in us and through us because of what we are learning in His word gives us Kingdom perspective, a larger and more dynamic view. If we are in a good spiritual place, our hope is elevated even in the midst of our problems. If we continue in anxiety, anger, and fear, we do not have the hope that is in Christ.

Matthew 6:33 But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well.

Matthew 13:47 The kingdom of heaven is like a net that was let down into the lake and caught all kinds of fish. 48 When it was full, the fishermen pulled it up on the shore. Then they sat down and collected the good fish in baskets, but threw the bad away. 49 This is how it will be at the end of the age. The angels will come and separate the wicked from the righteous.

═════

[71]

We all have ministry gifts and are here for a reason. It is not to accumulate and gain power, but to do the will of the Father. Discern what God has for us and be listening and obedient from day to day. Let us do everything we can to find out what God is calling us to do. That is why we are here. Walk in what you know now, learn what you don't know yet, and then obey. Get counsel from godly people. Listen to the Spirit of the Lord and walk in knowledge and wisdom. God knows the big picture and He will show us daily the way to go. It's a relationship. Spend time with Jesus, read his Words, and watch his example in Scripture. Talk with him often.

═════

[72]

Without the desire or passion for relationship with Jesus we cannot be spiritually fit.

If we are fearful of the changes God might require of us, we will easily slip back. The work required in the relationship will make us uncomfortable in our sin, but will change us into his likeness. The words that come to mind are discipline, self-control, and consistency. Prioritize well. WORK, but at the same time, always rely on the grace of God to work through you.

Rosemary: Needed this today!!!

═════

[73]

II Corinthians 4:6 God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, has shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. 7 But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God, and not of us.

Do we recognize treasures?

I have looked at one picture hanging on the wall every day for most of my life. It came to me as gift when I was a child from an elderly man who knew I liked art. It is a picture of a storm bearing on Grand Manan Island in Canada. It's a lovely picture in its original shadow box and gilt frame.

A couple of years ago it dawned on me that whoever did that picture was not a novice. I did some investigation. It turns out that it is a signed Charles Henry Gifford pastel done in about 1875 or '76. Gifford was an artist who worked along the New England coast in the 19th century. I knew where and who and how this particular painting came into my hands. But all these years, I didn't recognize it was a treasure.

As we walk through life, there are treasures all around us, particularly in our relationships. This treasure we have in us is our relationship with Jesus Christ. No matter what happens, no circumstance can take that away. Our God has promised HIS power (not ours) will take care of us throughout. Do we recognize the treasure within?

═════

[74]

Psalm 71:18 Now also when I am old and gray headed, O God, forsake me not; until I have showed Thy strength to this generation, and Thy power to every one that is to come.

Oh wow! I was feeling old today and wondering out loud what in the world is the Lord doing. When the Word says in Isaiah 55 that His ways are higher than mine, and His thoughts higher than mine, writing daily encouragement was not on my radar. Here again is confirmation that God has a hand in all that we do and say. He is directing and we are LISTENING.

Rejoicing and singing to the Lord as praise for all that has come our way in this life for 70-80 years at best, just makes sense like never before. God wants to do this in every life in some way. He has created us to be His witnesses and more than that His friends. We were created for fellowship with Him. He wants an intimate relationship with us. Can we hear Him calling our name, giving us direction and correction, wooing us by His love?

I have felt the overwhelming sense of God's great love many times, but at this moment, with my gray hair, less than agile, uncomfortable, aging body, I have never felt such joy and assurance in serving my Maker, my Friend, Healer and most importantly my Savior.

Leslie Ann: Melanie, thank you. You always seem to know what I need for encouragement.

Geri: Amen; good reminder God isn't done with me just because I'm old.

═════

[75]

"Our Father refreshes us on the journey with some pleasant inns, but will not encourage us to mistake them for home."― C.S.Lewis

Rick and talked this morning, or maybe it was yesterday morning (we talk a lot) about our circumstances. It was never on our radar that we would be retired, and retired by force. I posted about pain yesterday because it was hammering me and I could only do what was absolutely necessary to be sustained. As we talked again we realized that we aren't retired at all. God is still using us in ministry to those who also suffer loss of every kind. We are content and even refreshed and joyful today, but are grateful this is not our final home...

Lorrie: In contentment there is great gain.

Rob: I agree. You both write what people need to hear. And believe me, pain has my attention on Christ!

Donna: I am so grateful for your prayers and ministry!

Geri: I enjoy your devotionals.

═════

[76]

George MacDonald on spiritual growth:

"It is foolish to say that after a certain age a person cannot change. That some can not or will not (God alone can draw the line between those two nots) I will grant. But the cause of lack of growth is not age, and it is not universal. Those who do not care and cease to grow become dormant, stiffened and in a sense dead. But those who have been growing all the time need never stop. And where growth is, there is always the capability of change."

═════

[77]

Psalm 8:4 What is man, that Thou art mindful of him? And the son of man, that You visit him? 5 For You have made him a little lower than the angels, and have crowned him with glory and honor. 6 You made him to have dominion over the works of Thy hands. You have put all things under his feet: 7 All sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field; 8 The fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and what ever passes through the paths of the seas.

Did you know that we are to be responsible for all that God has created? He gave us dominion. We are not very good at it and most of the time we ignore our responsibilities to His creation. Those around us are also God's creation and our responsibility. We are to be a witness, a help and support for one another. The Bible clearly tells us that the world will know that we are Christians by our love for one another.

What has that to do with dominion and responsibility? We care, because God cares. He gave us the opportunity to respond in obedience and care for not only the humanity around us, but all that is created. We don't worship creation, but we care for all that is created. Farmers feed their livestock and make sure they are not diseased. We weed our gardens so the produce grows healthy. We make sure our pets are well cared for and not abused. We discipline our children in love, so they grow up with good manners and healthy habits, like brushing their teeth regularly. It seems simple to say it, but all these little things constitute "dominion," "responsibility."

We are responsible to tell our children and our children's children the great and wonderful, mighty things that God has done and teach them to have responsible dominion over their own lives and the beautiful creation God has given us.

═════

[78]

Many people are distressed about the state of our nation, the state of our press and the state of the world. If we are to trust Christ and are not be afraid, even if we feel we are failing we must keep seeking Christ, and not be anxious.

Isaiah 41:10 Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness.

"If in all things thou seeketh Jesus, doubtless thou will find him." – Teresa of Avila

Deb: Thank you Melanie. I needed this. Everyday I hear of such evil events and people. It does get discouraging and overwhelming. I have to keep my eyes on Christ.

═════

[79]

II Corinthians 10:5 Casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ.

One of the Early Church Fathers, around 399 AD, wrote that he believed the enemy of our soul was actually our thought life. I tend to agree. It doesn't take long for our minds to wander off somewhere into fantasy land if we do not train ourselves to focus. We come to a time of prayer, and in short order we wander off. Evagrius, the monk I referred to, identifies the things that take our mind on a fantasy trip. Our health, our relationships, our stuff, our memories, those who have wronged us, our troubles, grandeur and then, last but not least, our pride in our ability to do anything or something without God.

This is what happened in the beginning with Adam and Eve. We think for ourselves and make choices based on our thinking. This is idolatry, raising our thinking above God's thinking.

Thank you Lord Jesus. May these words inspire others to listen and follow you to the quiet place of a healthy soul.

═════

[80]

Joshua 1:9 Have not I commanded you? Be strong and of good courage; be not afraid, neither be dismayed: for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go.

Our thoughts give rise to our fears. What if? What about? How can it? How will I? Our need to control our circumstances allows Satan to shake us up. God continually in His Word tells us, and yes even commands, that we FEAR NOT!

Our circumstances are common to all generations. Nothing takes God by surprise. Our commitment to Him makes it possible for us to have peace and be fearless in every circumstance of life. We don't have to be afraid of what others do or say, for God is our provision and peace.

As we continue to walk with Him daily HE will provide all that we need. God will release us from our fears and walk with us, even as into the lion's den with Daniel, in the fiery furnace with Hebrew children, and when a snake comes out of the fire and latches on to us as with the apostle Paul. God HIMSELF will make a way. He has our back, front, sides, above, below. Our innermost being can live without fear.

Jeremiah 32:26 Then came the word of the Lord unto Jeremiah, saying, 27 Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. Is there any thing too hard for me?

Karin: Such a wonderful reminder:"Is there anything too hard for me?" Chronic illnesses are a daily challenge. We have some serious mental health issues in our family. Recently, in a crisis, I remembered Jacob's dream and response. "Surely the Lord was in this place and I did not know it." What a comfort!

═════

[81]

Luke 22:31 And the Lord said, "Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat: 32 But I have prayed for you, that your faith fail not: and when you are converted, strengthen your brothers."

Are we aware of the sifting occurring now in our nation, in the world, and in our own lives? Just the word, sifting, has opened many spiritual insights for me. Being a fair cook at one time, I understand that sifting flour and other dry ingredients through a very fine mesh sifter refines the flour and makes a better cake with more consistent texture. Also, it makes the combination adhere to other ingredients better.

To enjoy a treasure hunt for gold and precious stones, one must take a pile of dirt and rocks and sift it through a large box with mesh. The box is heavy and must be shaken severely to remove the dirt and leave only rocks, which must then be sorted out, in the end, to determine any of value.

Sifting comes to each of us as we serve the Lord. Is He going to find something of great value to the Kingdom when all the dirt is gone? Will we be better representatives of Christ as those around us watch to see what comes of the sifting in our life?

═════

[82]

Mark 6:56 And wherever He entered, into villages, or cities, or country, they laid the sick in the streets, and besought Him that they might touch if it were but the border of His garment: and as many as touched Him were made whole.

God led Jesus through the land of Israel to heal wounded, broken children. With the hem of His garment in reach, Jesus was walking through crowds, threading His way along the streets, where the people were living in a wilderness of ill health, sin and sorrow. All they had to do was respond, reach out and touch Jesus as He passed by.

In our wilderness, Jesus is still making a way for us. Reach out to Him TODAY!

═════

[83]

Grateful today for the many blessings of this life. We sense the presence of the Lord in our life and home. We observe the protection and provision of peace and grace in our relationships. Sometimes circumstances pile on and we stop to take a deep breath and thank God again. Then we press into the things that are necessary. I call it work... but by God's grace, work He is enabling me to do. Presence, peace, protection and provision, what more could we ask? We are grateful!

Romans 5:1 Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. 2 Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. 3 Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance, 4 and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, 5 and hope does not put us to shame, because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.

═════

[84]

Today has been a rough Lyme day, but sleep will cure the dragging, aspirin the pain, and my heart is still filled with joy at God's richest blessings of friends who help, pray and participate in our life here in our home. Thanks y'all for coming to visit and pray with us both. We keep you in our prayers and definitely in our hearts.

═════

[85]

I didn't think there was anything to really say about the day. I am thinking about someone who I love dearly. We talked today. He is someone I love and I'm very proud of, but he lives far from us and has never lived close enough for Rick and I to get to know him well. We appreciate his heart. He is a great thinker and much like Rick. Sometimes I think, what in the world are they thinking? BUT they are thinking with ears atuned to the small inner voice of the Spirit of God. God makes us all different for a reason. Our humor or lack thereof, our quirks and kindnesses are available and instilled in us for the purpose of reaching the variety of personalities who need to feel the love of God, and find their way to a relationship with Jesus and others.

Living a faith filled life can often take us places we don't want to go and through things unspeakable that sadden and leave us feeling numb and lost. BUT we are never lost or at a loss if we keep our mind stayed.

Isaiah 26:3 You keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you, because he trusts in you. 4 Trust in the Lord forever, for the Lord God is an everlasting rock.

═════

[86]

My sweetheart has had a rough swallowing day and we've had workmen in the house most of the day. BUT this evening he still treated me to a date night. He downloaded an old movie of an Ellery Queen mystery. It was delightful and I finally figured out who-done-it a few minutes before it ended. Then we watched the BBC program Escape to the Country. The British Isles have the most gorgeous countryside and quaint but beautiful old (really old) homes and gardens. I saw several gardens on the show tonight, including one that had a plant grown from a seed that was over 500 years old. It was found in the wall during a restoration of a monastery/church and so they planted it. The wonder of God's creation, in the beauty of the mind of a detective and the countryside of an island land, makes me smile so big, that my face hurts. That's a lot of joy.

I am grateful.

Do take time to be grateful and enjoy God's creation in the vast variety of nature and personalities. Also, don't forget to pray for those who may need to have joy in the midst of their sorrows and hardships in the circumstances of current events.

Mark 7:37 And they were astonished beyond measure, saying, "He has done all things well. He even makes the deaf hear and the mute speak."

═════

[87]

"I should be sad at sleeping so often during prayers and thanksgiving. Well, I am not. I recall that little children, when asleep, are just as pleasing to their parents as when they are awake." — St. Therese of Lisieux

"...and sometimes even more pleased!" — Melanie

═════

[88]

Today I took a break while Rick had a visitor. I don't often get to see Mom Hoover because of the care schedule, timing and feeling well enough to make the trek to her assisted living apartment. Mom has lots of visitors and, while I was with her this afternoon for an hour, someone called to see if they could come in the morning for a visit.

Mom is a saint. Not that we would 'canonize' her as such, but she is a prayer warrior, on behalf of those she loves especially, but of every need that comes to her ears. We talked about how important a spiritual heritage is AND how even with three generations and even four generations of a God-fearing and serving family, some still go astray following the ways of the world, following their own desires and losing their way.

She also prays diligently for our healing. Rick told me the other day that he does feel incrementally better. I pray daily that he will feel better. It's awful to feel weak and not quite with the program constantly. It wears....

Rick and I also pray together for both of our healings. I am beginning to think our purpose in being debilitated is to learn to PRAY better. If we felt better we would go to the beach, out to eat and maybe even take a trip to.... We enjoy our nightly DATES! and take time to hold hands and kiss. We share devotionals and talk to each other about what the Lord is saying to us as individuals. He really liked my post the other night on Do nothing until you hear from me! Sometimes the smallest idea will click in the connection to a spiritual concept. I do want to wait on the Lord and hear His voice, direction and guidance. Keeps me on the straight and narrow road.... Blessings this night dear ones, rest well and be refreshed in the morning.

Thank you Lord Jesus for Your peace, presence, purpose, protection and provision for this day. Keep us in Your hand. Amen

═════

[89]

Sometimes the day is just a day. All the normal things, plus the grocery store and of course our evening date. We watched two mystery movies and a short segment from Alton Brown (Good Eats program from the Food Network). He's not doing the show anymore, but Rick found reruns.

My deal today was the grocery store. Went, only forgot one thing, but dropped the gallon of milk and it rolled under the car when I got home. My sweet neighbor Katie came to my rescue and helped me take the groceries in and then hugged my neck before she left. What a blessing she has been. With three little ones she still has the energy and heart to serve others. During Hurricane Irma their family took them in elsewhere (with electricity and water AND grandparents), but Katie called another sweet friend, Bobbie Jo, to bring us ice and water and battery fans. When Bobbie Jo came by she introduced us to her two adorables. I love the way God sends just the right thing when it's needed.

Philippians 4:10 I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at length you have revived your concern for me. You were indeed concerned for me, but you had no opportunity. 11 Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content. 12 I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need. 13 I can do all things through him who strengthens me. 14 Yet it was kind of you to share my trouble.19 And my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory.

═════

[90]

Father, we pray for those who are grieving.

They're hurting for many reasons. Help them through this season of loss. We reach out to You, the Father of all compassion and comfort. Touch us with Your unfailing love and kindness. Be our God who comforts us as we go through struggles, and bring us through. Come alongside in our pain, and strengthen us so one day we may help others who face the same struggles. Be close to those whose hearts are breaking, those who are discouraged and have given up hope. Help us find our joy in You. Help us to trust You, the God of all hope. Fill us with Your joy, peace, and hope. Help us to sense Your presence in our hour of need. Make us a blessing and comfort to those whose lives we are able to touch. In the precious name of Jesus, we pray.

II Corinthians 1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, 4 who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. 5 For as we share abundantly in Christ's sufferings, so through Christ we share abundantly in comfort too.

═════

[91]

FOR THOSE IN PAIN THIS NIGHT!!!

Heavenly Father, We wish we could take away the pain. It is so hard to see suffering and not know how to help. So we come before you God, our Restorer, and our Redeemer. We know that You took our pain on Yourself when You bore the stripes on Your back and died on the cross. So we ask in Your precious Name for healing. Come now Holy Spirit and restore Your children who are in pain this day. We pray they no longer have to bear this suffering. We pray they turn to You during their time of struggling, In Jesus name. Amen

═════

[92]

I have been unable to sit at the computer for a couple of days and I am done now, but just wanted to thank all for your prayers. I am still hurting pretty much, screaming and shaking occasionally when it grabs me, but some better. Thank you to my sous chef Kathy H. this afternoon and Nancy M. my ice bearer this morning. I will need a sous chef a couple more days I'm sure, but dear Susan W. is going to pick up the medication in the morning for me. Rick was able to get the ice pack out of the freezer by himself and that was an amazing lift to my spirit. God bless you all!

═════

[93]

This is the seventh day of pain. I can walk backwards slowly. I think the drug is working some. I would say 20% better, but still much of the day I'm just laying in bed with an ice pack.

Thank God for neighbor friends, and friends from the day we moved to Florida in 1977, through all the changes and chances of life. God has provided such beautiful saints as servants to those in need. I am so grateful for all the help and the prayers provided by so many. God is faithful and He is present in our lives, our home and protects, provides and gives us peace in the midst of the circumstances. Keep us in your prayers.

Rick has been helping me, which is really a turn around. He is able to do more than I knew. I am very grateful for the progress he is making and continues to make. God is good and the purpose is not visible, but I will be well one day and able to continue to serve according to His purposes.

═════

[94]

Psalm 127:2 It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest, eating the bread of anxious toil; for he gives to his beloved sleep.

We are often anxious about many things. Things over which we have no control. Circumstances that are out of our realm of influence. \

How often Jesus told us not to worry. He clothes the lilies, He feeds the birds and we are worth so much more, so much that He sacrificed His life blood for us and our salvation. When your day is done and you haven't worried yourself sick about things over which you have no power to change, you can rest in His perfect love and protection and sleep like you ARE His beloved.

Rest well this night and leave the coming week and the activity of this day in His hands.

═════

[95]

Scriptures for those who are in a fight for your life, physically, mentally and spiritually. Submit yourself to the Lord.

For the LORD your God is the one who goes with you to fight for you against your enemies to give you victory. Deuteronomy 20:4

What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? Romans 8:31

Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid; do not be discouraged, for the LORD your God will be with you wherever you go. Joshua 1:9

Through You we will push back our adversaries; Through Your name we will trample down those who rise up against us. Psalm 44:5

And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. Matthew 10:28

The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. John 10:10

Do not be afraid of them; the LORD your God himself will fight for you. Deuteronomy 3:22

Yet those who wait for the LORD Will gain new strength; They will mount up with wings like eagles, They will run and not get tired, They will walk and not become weary. Isaiah 40:31

One of your men puts to flight a thousand, for the LORD your God is He who fights for you, just as He promised you. Joshua 23:10

The Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save; he will rejoice over you with gladness; he will quiet you by his love; he will exult over you with loud singing. Zephaniah 3:17

═════

[96]

Sandi Krakowski:

I think trusting when we don't understand and can't see is the hardest season. But truth be told, that's what trust and faith is, isn't it? When we can see and we can understand what's happening, that doesn't take as much faith or trust as just surrendering ourselves and abandoning our need to know.

═════

[97]

In spite of my physical discomfort, my heart is overflowing with great joy. Thank you everyone for making my birthday a great day. I haven't been able to sit at the computer until this evening for a few minutes, but bless you all for blessing me.

Thank you all for keeping me in your prayers and Rick too. He did a couple new cover pictures for me about peace. He's a genius! Rest in God's loving arms this night.

═════

[98]

This morning we had to go to the funeral home and get things in order for mom's service. We only had one slight moment as we got up to leave their office, then the water fell. Rick started it, Randy and I followed. But everything is set for Thursday morning.

We have been calling the friends and relatives that aren't necessarily in the loop and going through all kinds of interesting history in the files. Pictures and letters and cards of both Mom and Dad. Her worn Bible was missing a few pages in Genesis, but I found them in an envelope on which she had written, "They fell out, missing Genesis pages." It did make me smile.

We can't thank the people who have come around to support us, enough! Thank you Ellen for supper for me tonight. Delicious beefy veg soup, and still hot. So glad you friends were in a listening state of mind. Every day some one or more than one has been a ministering angel to us. We are extremely grateful. We will have Tuesday and Wednesday for the three sons to put together a video and choose pictures to display, of which there is a plethora!!!

═════

[99]

God's Word to the rescue again this night. It has been a long season of high stress and we have need of a break from the cares of this life. I am sad to have lost my Mom-in-law, but her grief and stress are over. She is seeing Jesus face to face and greeting all those loved ones who have gone before.

God's promises are what make our lives possible. The joy, peace and love depends on our response to our witness of God's peace in the midst of the storms. His Word is true and He is faithful.

Be blessed with God's perfect rest this night.

John 14:27 Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid.

═════

[100]

I found this in the front of Mom Hoover's Bible.

A Mother's Prayer

That they may walk in the Way.

That they may know the Truth.

That they may live the Life.

That's all that I ask for them.

But then, that's everything,

Everything that matters...

—EH

We treasure her prayers for us kids and generations to come.

═════

[101]

Rejoice, inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's sufferings. I Peter 4:13

If you are going to be used by God, He will take you through a multitude of experiences that are not meant for you at all; they are meant to make you useful in His hands, and to enable you to understand what transpires in other souls so that you will never be surprised at what you come across. —Oswald Chambers

═════

[102]

Oswald Chambers is chastising me again:

"The circumstances of a saint's life are ordained of God. In the life of a saint there is no such thing as chance. God by His providence brings you into circumstances that you cannot understand at all, but the Spirit of God understands. God is bringing you into places and among people and into conditions in order that the intercession of the Spirit in you may take a particular line. Never put your hand in front of the circumstances and say I am going to be my own providence here; I must watch this, and guard that. All your circumstances are in the hand of God, therefore never think it strange concerning the circumstances you are in."

═════

[103]

Doing the difficult thing.

John 19:25 Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother...

As we find "the difficult" in life coming to us through circumstances beyond our control, we can and do grow if we have the grace of God in our lives. Facing what we cannot change, we pray for grace and endure. In the case of loss we move forward slowly, by God's grace, to become healed. God's grace in the loss becomes our gain as we draw near to Him.

Giving of ourselves, of who we are in totality, is a very difficult thing. Mary gave of herself and we have Our Savior. Noah gave of himself and we not only got a fresh start, but we also have rainbows. Ruth abandoned all that she had ever known and she came to be in the lineage of Jesus himself.

═════

[104]

Prone to loss.

This is a paraphrase of a devotional that my husband and I read this morning. It is for those who have lost some round in life, whether through the death of a loved one, loss of health, job loss, or trial that seems too much to bear.

We are loss-prone. It may be something intangible like the loss or delay of a dream, or something as tangible as the loss we feel when we move from one city to another, leaving those we love behind. Losses can pile up faster than we can process them. When we have a relationship with Jesus and are in fellowship with a body of believers we have access to help in prayer. This is not a magic hand-off, but it is a medicinal release. Eugene Peterson reminds us that one of the best prayers in the world is, "Help!" We must realize we are not alone. Jesus is pulling for us.

This is not outside my realm of experience. Having moved more than several times throughout our marriage, we have found ways to de-fang the losses of the past. The losses are real but not powerful enough to destroy us. Life is loss-prone! Our only option is to find a way to allow the losses to come without drowning us. Nothing will help if we try to bail out our boat alone. We need the Savior in our boat. He is not going to let us drown and will encourage us along the way as we stay connected in faith and fellowship.

"God places in our path those who add to our life a dimension in times of loss, even loss of self-worth."

═════

[105]

Take a moment to read Psalm 37.

Life doesn't go as smoothly as we would like. The car breaks down, someone in our family dies, our home gets flooded, we get older and our bodies don't work like we want.

What are we going to do? How are we going to function? Where do we turn? How will I come up with the money to fix this? Woe is me!

As Christians we have a refuge and a fortress. (Psalm 91) We have Jesus, who suffered great loss including the loss of His life, yet held steady to the end. We have great blessings if we have Jesus and friends in Christ (the family of God, the body of believers). BUT if all we have is Jesus we are most comforted.

One of my favorite Scriptures tells me all I need to know.

Psalm 37:25 I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken or his seed begging for bread.

═════

[106]

Times of grief and sorrow will visit on every person at some point in time. Believers aren't insulated from tragedies and painful situations. We don't weep as the world weeps.

Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted. Matthew 5:4

═════

[107]

Romans 14:7 For none of us lives for ourselves alone, and none of us dies for ourselves alone. 8 If we live, we live for the Lord; and if we die, we die for the Lord. So, whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord. 9 For this very reason, Christ died and returned to life so that he might be the Lord of both the dead and the living.

Our daily desire should be to make Christ known in this world by our words and our actions. We are not here without purpose. I pray that this Sunday especially we will be thankful for the gift of life we have been given by God and LIVE IT!

═════

[108]

Psalm 57:7 My heart is steadfast, O God, my heart is steadfast; I will sing, yes, I will sing praises!

Psalm 108:1 My heart is steadfast, O God; I will sing, I will sing praises, even with my soul.

The joy of the Lord is my strength and my song.

═════

[109]

From my devotional Listening For His Voice, written the year before Rick's stroke. It has come back to us again today that God was preparing us and we had no clue. But HE IS FAITHFUL, ALWAYS!

What's Happened to Me?

Philippians 1:12 But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel.

When the circumstances of life seem to be going badly, and we seem to be sinking, the folks around us may feel sorry for us and wonder what in the world is happening.

Paul was speaking here to the church about his imprisonment and the difficulties of beatings and being chased out of town and then shipwrecked, snake bit. All the circumstances that seemed just awful for him he turned into an opportunity to spread the Gospel. His attitude of heart and mind was to lift up Jesus in every circumstance.

Paul had a circumstance early on his ministry. He calls it his thorn in his flesh. We have no idea what it was. Many have speculated but it just isn't recorded. What is recorded, Paul asked God three times for deliverance and then had to agree to live with the circumstance as it humbled him and kept him mindful of his need of God's grace.

When things happen that are unforeseen, sickness, an accident, financial reverse, loss of a loved one; we may question. What's happening? Think of Job. He had everything. He served and loved God and lost everything including his health, but would not curse God and die.

Job then asked a question. What he got was not the answer he was looking for, but he found out Who was God! God is looking for faithfulness in every one who comes to Him. Our life, like Paul's and Job's are an example for all to see. Are we faithful and trusting in God no matter the circumstances?

II Corinthians 12:9 But he said to me, "My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness."

═════

[110]

Romans 2:4 Do you despise the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long suffering; not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance?

I heard a story about a fellow complaining to God about his bad day. His alarm didn't go off, his car didn't want to start, on and on. You know how these things work. It was a bad day in his opinion. But then God explained why each thing happened. God's kindness ordered his steps and protected the young man from all that could have happened if God had not intervened.

Sometimes "kindness" doesn't look that way to us. But God has given us His Word, His Spirit and His people, to help us to not fall in a ditch, or get run over by a bus. If we recognize that God is in control of our life, that He has our back, we will be grateful for the kindnesses that don't quite suit us.

Saul wasn't too happy to be lying on the ground, blind, on the road to Damascus. But it was a rescue. Shortly he became Paul whose spiritual sight has become a kindness to us in Scripture throughout the ages, teaching us about the treasury of gifts God has provided for the growth of His Kingdom and the benefit of our spiritual life.

═════

[111]

For those who didn't want to read the entire devotional from Henry Blackaby...

"During difficult times it is critical that we are walking in fellowship with other Christians. When a crisis hits, it is overwhelming to face it alone. But if we have cultivated supportive friendships, we will find strength in the comfort and encouragement of those who care about us."

═════

[112]

God of All Comfort

II Corinthians 1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, 4 who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. 5 For as we share abundantly in Christ's sufferings, so through Christ we share abundantly in comfort too.

═════

[113]

In the dentist's office I found a little booklet. It is two inches wide and two and half inches tall. The cover says "LET NOT YOUR HEART BE TROUBLED." There are 31 tiny pages of Scripture in which we are told to "Fear not," "Cast your care upon Him, He will sustain you," "He is our refuge and strength, a very present help in time of trouble," "Call on Me in the day of trouble and I will deliver you."

The world is watching to see how we handle the circumstances of every day life, especially when things are not going so well. We must lay down the burden. In fact the Bible says "cast it," meaning "throw it on Jesus." We only have one deliverer and He is the only one who can help us.

We are in a race to win a prize, the prize of salvation and the Lord's exclamation, "Well done. you good and faithful servant! Enter!"

═════

[114]

Isaiah 43:1b Do not fear, for I have redeemed you; I have called you by name; you are Mine! 2"When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; And through the rivers, they will not overflow you. When you walk through the fire, you will not be scorched, Nor will the flame burn you. 3"For I am the LORD your God, The Holy One of Israel, your Savior.

═════

[115]

In our lives we face things that seem insurmountable. Some are the consequences of our own actions and some because we live in a world that is fallen where sin reigns. The kindness and mercies of God come in many different forms and may not seem "kind" or "merciful" in the moment.

As we turn to His Word and become better acquainted with Him through prayer and submission, we see the picture much differently. Our hearts may be broken, our lives may not look like they did before, but the grace of God is worth much more to us now. We begin to recognize that God's mercy and love are always drawing us into a closer more intimate relationship. He must be our priority. There is great joy, security and contentment resting in God's mercy.

Lamentations 3:22 It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, because His compassions fail not.23 They are new every morning: great is Thy faithfulness.

═════

[116]

This is a drawing I did some years back and it's included in my book Listening For His Voice. It reminds me when I am feeling helpless or distressed that "Yes, I'm a cracked pot," but nonetheless a vessel that God wants to fill and use to bring about His purposes and show His great love and mercy to others.

═════

[117]

Tonight as I prepared three different soups for processing, I thought about the Israelites wandering in the desert with nothing but manna to eat. Rebellion and ungrateful hearts can get you a really boring diet.

I'm very grateful tonight for the wide variety of flavors that can be processed, even if it is all soup. Also more than grateful that we aren't tube feeding Rick now for more than a year. He still has an occasional choking episode (I hold my breath and wait to make sure he is still breathing) but on the whole he's so much better and progress is in the making.

It seems to be slow, but at our age slowing down in some ways is not a bad idea. I love it when God lets us know He is still with us!

Isaiah 46:4 Even to your old age, I am He, and to gray hairs, I will carry you. I have made, and I will bear; I will carry and will save.

═════

[118]

Well, it's been a day.

First thing this morning I twisted my left knee and have had to walk with a cane most of the day. This hasn't been a problem in years. We had a car accident heading to Wauchula about 25 years ago and my knee caps met the dashboard and glove compartment. I gimped for some time, which is why I have a cane in the first place. I'm praying and hoping to wake in the morning able to go about the business of life at a normal but safe speed.

Sometimes we need to slow down. The Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays are a good time to do that and take stock of our lives. Advent, much like Lent, is a time of preparation and waiting. Time to rethink our daily habits, thoughts, actions and conversations. My knee reminded me that not everything is necessary. While I'm forced to slow down, I might as well make the best of it for my soul, listening for the voice of the Lord in this circumstance also.

I am preparing my heart for the coming of the Savior and waiting for the peace of God to rule in this world. He has come. The peace is not visible yet. BUT His peace does rule in my heart. It's my choice to follow the Word.

Colossians 3:15 And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body; and be ye thankful.16 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord.17 And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.

═════

[119]

My husband is awesome. He can't use a cell phone for several reasons, but NOT because he doesn't KNOW about them. I had to get a new phone recently and it would pop up a scolding message: You have denied a required permission. It wouldn't let me fix or delete any of my contacts. I even took it back to the retailer and they didn't know how to fix it.

Rick found the fix for me online! It took me about an hour to go through the whole contact list and get it done in alpha order and delete contacts I don't need anymore. Like I said, he is awesome.

═════

[120]

"Our perception changes with life's circumstances". I have been chewing mentally on this comment all day. As new truths about our current circumstances are revealed, we see better the hand of God working all things for His purposes. We are here to give Him glory with our lives and it seems He has orchestrated us into ways and seasons we never expected.

We could never have seen this lifestyle coming. We would never have knowingly chosen it. BUT again we see daily His hand at work.

Mark 7:37 And they were astonished beyond measure, saying, "He has done all things well. He even makes the deaf hear and the mute speak."

Lord Jesus we are listening this Advent season to hear and see what is coming in our lives to bring glory to Your Name.

═════

[121]

Yesterday today and forever, Jesus remains! — Melanie Hibma Hoover

For I desire mercy and not sacrifice, And the knowledge of God more than burnt offerings. Hosea 6:6

Our obedient relationship with God has ultimate value and is more important than anything we say or do. Knowing about not the same as knowing!

═════

[122]

I am thinking tonight of the blessings of the Lord in our life. We are so aware of His care for us and the verse that comes to mind is from Proverbs 10:22 The blessing of the Lord makes rich, and he adds no sorrow with it.

Though we have suffered some sorrow in our life, we have been enriched throughout with the blessing of the Lord. So many friends! We are wealthy in friends and they bring us such joy and hope even in the darkest moments.

Psalm 30:5 His favor is for a lifetime. Weeping may stay for the night, but joy comes with the morning.

Praise God from whom all blessings flow! Praise Him all creatures here below. Praise Him above you heavenly host. Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. Amen.

═════

[123]

1 Kings 19:11b And behold, the LORD was passing by! And a great and strong wind was rending the mountains and breaking in pieces the rocks before the LORD; but the LORD was not in the wind. And after the wind an earthquake, but the LORD was not in the earthquake. 12 After the earthquake a fire, but the LORD was not in the fire; and after the fire a sound of a gentle [blowing].

The sound of a gentle blowing wind is my prayer tonight for those who are suffering great loss in California. A soft wind with enough water to put out the fires, and a calming of the earth itself.

I know that God allows some things to get our attention and turn to Him. May we all follow and hear His Word. I pray!

═════

[124]

The weekend showed up quick this week. Only five more days until my sister Renee gets here. Then twelve days until Christmas. I'm not wishing the time away, but enjoying the ebb and flow of the days of Advent.

We have been enjoying our Advent readings each morning. I love Christmas because the baby born in this season makes all the rest of our time on this earth worthwhile. His purpose has become our purpose. Even through the ups and downs of normal daily life we are blessed with the assurance of His presence at all times, guiding, loving, providing. Come to think of it, most days feel like Christmas to me. A gift of life to be shared, given to us to give to others.

I'm praying that in the hard moments and days, Christ will be your comfort and peace, your healer and your joy.

═════

[125]

I have been on new medication for Lyme about four days now and not having any rough effects, for which I am very grateful. I am not getting around great, but slowly working on it. We are grateful for God's presence in our home and lives. He has protected and provided. He has never failed us yet.

Psalm 86:15 But you, O Lord, are a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness.

═════

[126]

It was accidentally good pie.

I didn't have enough apple pie filling. So I added a cup of apple sauce, some Graham cracker crumbs, dried cranberries, pecans and sprinkled with cinnamon and sugar! Not as much sugar as pecan but more than apple.

Maybe it was also an accidentally good year...?

═════

[127]

Thinking about the JOY of the season and those whose joy is mitigated by the fires of life. The circumstances we never saw coming. The thwarted expectations. Our faith in Jesus the Christ, whom we celebrate in this Advent season, is the Savior of our souls and the joy to come is eternity with Him and those we have loved in this life who know Him and serve Him. It is joy unspeakable, but I keep trying!

1 Peter 7b ...the tested genuineness of your faith is more precious than gold that perishes though it is tested by fire—it may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. 8 Though you have not seen Him, you love Him. Though you do not now see Him, you believe in Him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory, 9 obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls.

O merciful Father, who taught us in your holy Word that you would not willingly afflict us, look with pity upon the sorrows of those for whom our prayers are offered. Remember them, O Lord, in mercy, nourish their souls with patience, comfort them with a sense of your goodness, lift up your countenance upon them, and give them peace; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

═════

[128]

From an entry at Our Daily Bread: The practice of daily gratitude can't erase the magnitude of pain we feel in seasons of loss. But recognizing God's goodness to us — in even the smallest of ways — can prepare us to kneel in worship before our all-powerful God in the darkest hours of our earthly lives.

O God, You are the Giver of all good things. Help me to recognize Your generosity in even the smallest ways and to trust You in seasons of loss and hardship.

═════

AFTERWORD by Rev. Rick Hoover

_PHOS HILARON_

O gracious light,

pure brightness of the everliving Father in heaven,

O Jesus Christ, holy and blessed!

Now as we come to the setting of the sun,

and our eyes behold the vesper light,

we sing your praises, O God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.

You are worthy at all times to be praised by happy voices,

O Son of God, O Giver of Life,

and to be glorified through all the worlds.

The Phos Hilaron is the oldest Christian hymn in the world outside the Bible still in use today. It is often included as part of the fixed hour prayer traditions handed down from Apostolic times. (Note that Peter and John were heading into the Temple for prayers "at the ninth hour" in Acts 3:1). Compline is the last of the fixed hour daily prayers, said shortly before bed time.

When a stroke changed my and our lives in 2014, my wife Melanie had just begun a new season of ministry as a writer. She had published a series of Bible studies and two romance novels. My suddenly frail condition forced a change of focus on her. She needed to carefully watch over my daily meals and health, as well as assume all responsibilities for our household upkeep and obligations. Devoting long hours to Bible study and writing became a luxury she could no longer enjoy. Her mind was intently focused on my health. She was constantly going over her "to do" list to make certain she forgot nothing important. Only at the end of each tiring day, and in an effort to unwind from stress, did she sit at her computer for a few minutes to post updates for friends following our situation online.

She began to deliberately set herself a goal of writing something to encourage others, and to build up her own faith in Jesus caring for us all. We came to recognize that she was posting a kind of daily phos hilaron to hold up the light of Christ for others also traveling through dark stretches of road in their lives. Her nightly postings were like sharing a Compline prayer time with others, many who were somewhat alone and isolated as we were. And I realized these short encouragements could be gathered to make a new book she had been otherwise too overwhelmed to write.

Over the past couple of years we have borne additional sorrows common to all our life journeys. My mom passed. A dear friend and his daughters died in a private plane accident. Other friends faced surgery and medical crises. Melanie was diagnosed with Lyme Disease and spinal stenosis, both very painful and debilitating. This collection of posts, gathered as my Christmas gift to her and to her readers, reflects some of the ups and downs of this season. It has encouraged me to read again of Melanie's steadfast resolve to trust the Lord daily and find comfort in Him.

I close by sharing a few excerpts from the ancient liturgy of Compline as found in the American Book of Common Prayer from 1979. (Complete texts can be found online.) Saints who have gone before pass it on to us as a lifeline of hope in Christ.

**Psalm 31** _In te, Domine, speravi_

1 In you, O LORD, have I taken refuge. Let me never be put to shame: deliver me in your righteousness. 2 Incline your ear to me; make haste to deliver me.

Visit this place, O Lord, and drive far from it all snares of the enemy; let your holy angels dwell with us to preserve us in peace; and let your blessing be upon us always; through Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._

_Simeon's Prayer:_

_Lord, you now have set your servant free to go in peace as you have promised;_ For these eyes of mine have seen the Savior, whom you have prepared for all the world to see: A Light to enlighten the nations, and the glory of your people Israel.

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit: as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Guide us waking, O Lord, and guard us sleeping; that awake we may watch with Christ, and asleep we may rest in peace.

_═════_

_Other books by Melanie Hoover in the_ _Listening_ _series:_

_Find a complete list of Melanie's books atwww.smashwords.com_

_Some titles are also available at other online retailers._

_Read Melanie's current posts online at<https://www.facebook.com/melanie.hoover.520>_

_and at her blog<https://melanie48.wordpress.com/>_

