 
L iterary Lunes Magazine copyright © 2013 Literary Lunes Publications. All rights reserved, including the right to reproduce this book, or portions thereof, in any form without written permission except for the use of brief quotations embodied in critical articles and reviews.

For information about reprinting, distributing, or otherwise sharing the contents of this book, please contact Beth Ann Masarik at info@literarylunespublications.com

First edition, March/April 2013

Originally published in paperback and e-book by Literary Lunes Publications

Interior edited by Beth Ann Masarik

Cover design by Beth Ann Masarik

Literary Lunes Publications

www.literarylunespublications.com

Table of Contents

Letter From the Editor

By Beth Ann Masarik

Upcoming tours for May & June

Literary Guru

Wacky Writers

A Character's Prerogative

by Linda J. Pedley

A True Artist Never Stops Learning

By Ashley Laura Smith

Author Spotlight: Bryan W. Dull and his book, Solstice

By Beth Ann Masarik

My Journey to Publishing

By S.K. Whiteside.

Out and Equal

by Selisse Berry

Dressing the Part

By EY Wade

Author Spotlight: Where We Left Off

By J. Alex Blane

Why I Write

By Cora Blu

Writing Advice I Wish Someone Had Told Me I had Been Smart Enough To Listen To

By Jenny Milchman

Halfway There

By SF Chapman

The Alabama Rebel: A Novel of Courage Amid Conflict

By R. Thomas Roe

When I decided to be a Writer

By Shannon Greenland

No Walk in the Park

By RJ Tolson

Behind the Scenes with Khelsey Jackson

By Beth Ann Masarik

Behind the Scenes with John Dahlgreen

By Beth Ann Masarik

Poetry Palooza

Poetry by various poets

An Angel Buys a Car

Cassandra Serafin Chronicles #7

By Erin Danzer

Starlington

By Beth Ann Masarik

Terra Firma Reviews

By Terra Kelly

Lunar Reviews

By Beth Ann Masarik

PURCHASE YOUR ADVERTISING SPACE TODAY!

The Staff

Companies we tour with

Affiliates

SUBMISSIONS ARE OPEN ALL YEAR ROUND! Please visit our website at www.literarylunespublications.com for submission guidelines and send them to submissions@literarylunespublications.com

**PLEASE NOTE THE CHANGE OF ADDRESS.

Letter From the Editor

Dear Readers,

Welcome to another edition of Literary Lunes Magazine! Since no one purchased the magazine when it was offered for .99 cents on smashwords, the ebooks will be going back to being free. You will be able to purchase this in paperback via amazon in a few days. That said, I deeply apologize for the lateness of this issue. Things have been super busy lately, and time got away from me. I can't believe that it's the end of April already!

That said, we have a packed issue this month with lots of great articles about writing. We have some great new poems and two new short stories. Oh and Cassandra Serafine is back! There are some great interviews, and book reviews too!

The new Literary Lunes website has been hopping the last few months thanks to some of the wonderful contributors! Please stop on by and say hello. And if you'd like to be a guest on the blog, please send an email to literarylunespress@gmail.com and let me know! I'd love to have you!

Anyway, that's all for now. I hope you enjoy this month's issue. The next month is due out sometime in May.

Sincerely,

Beth Ann Masarik

Editor in Chief

Upcoming tours for May & June

May 3- Renegade Release Day Blitz

May 8- The Elite

May 10- Agents of The Crown Series

May 12- Maureen Dudley (JKS)

May 13- Submission Therapy

May 14- The Loneliest Alpha

May 20-Barry Wightman (JKS)

May 24- Norma Jean

June 1- 15 minutes cover reveal (Jill Cooper)

June 3- Butterfly Tears

June 4- JR Wagner

June 6- Belinda Boring (release day diva interview)

June 10- Dance For Me by Helena Newbury

June 11-Marci mini tour (release day diva- guest post)

June 17- 15 minutes release day buzz (Jill Cooper)

June 18- Owlet

June 25- Theressa Rizzo

June 27- Megan Karasch

June 28- Paris Love Match

If you would like to book us as a stop on your tour, please send an email to literarylunespress@gmail.com subject Blog Tour. All posts will go on the Literary Lunes website at www.literarylunespublications.com. If you are a tour company and would like to work with us for future events, please don't hesitate to contact us. I will keep an updated blog tour schedule list for those who wish to keep up with what tours we participate in. So check back for updates!

L iterary Guru is an anonymous advice column for all things literary related. If you have a question, please send it in to info@literarylunespublications.com and your question will be answered as soon as possible. Your question, and the answer provided, will be printed in the next issue of Literary Lunes Magazine. You can also like the  Literary Guru on facebook and post your questions on the wall if you don't want to email it in!

Wacky Writers

What would you do if you were transported into another realm or dimension?

A Character's Prerogative

by Linda J. Pedley

As a writer I am forever creating new works that introduce characters who fit the plot, the genre, and the setting. These characters, oft times, invariably sit upon the tip of my tongue, or rather, the tip of my fingers, just waiting to spring forth and live out their own story, as I type. Others still, are loath to show themselves and come out of hiding only as I coax them to the page. No matter the personality, thought must go into the type of character I choose to represent each story because each will require a developed set of traits that allow little quirks and habits to make them appear more real. You must also give them an endearing quality so they are more apt to create a relationship with the reader, and then give them a suitable name - to fit the situation and time and, of course, for ease of calling.

There are loving characters that show every emotion upon their paper sleeve, often giving in too soon to their affections for lowly wanton desires; there are those who are withdrawn and depressive who keep to themselves and usually end up unfulfilled unless they realize their shortcomings through an epiphany, of sorts, appropriately placed during the last dregs of a long middle story, having already been beaten and prodded and poked to that realization. Modern day stories require the with-it, happening fashioned characters who are the epitome of slick, sassy, and smart. Step back into history, to bring forth a player from the stages of Shakespeare's London, and one must research the very...

"Alas, I am a player and I offer to thee my timely humble servitude." A deep bow ensues.

"You interrupted... and... If indeed I called you forth, you would therefore, be late."

"I interrupted not - you brought me forth, and hence, therefore I am arrived - on time."

"Matter of argument - besides, I did not call you forth. I was merely writing about the characters I may call upon to tell their stories during my writing journey. So, what is it you want?"

"Master is somewhat pointed with a mere player. Perhaps, I shall forsake thee and run through my sword to maketh a point."

"You always were the dramatist - now, in words you might understand... be gone!"

"O happy dagger! This is thy sheath; there rust, and let me die."

"Nice try. Besides, it's been done and you certainly don't look like a Juliet."

"I could be."

"Out, out, damn player!"

If you let your imagination run away with you, sometimes you must be rigid and hold to the course of your writing. If a character neither fits the personality nor do they seem real, then perhaps, you will lose your reader to those superficial qualities. When readers involve themselves in your work they often relate to a character, finding similarities in their situations, recalling memories of things that happened to them in likeness to the events of the story. A character's situation can bring to light similar feelings, which may be happiness, sadness, anger or anguish...

"Oh woe, what am I to do?"

"You are interrupting... but what is wrong?"

"I need someone to tell my story to so that I may find a solution to my... delicate situation."

"Again... what is wrong?"

"I'm late."

"I did not call you here and you did not have an appointment, so how is it that you think you are late?"

"Daft writer - I am late, as in I... am... late... and I think I might be pregnant!"

"It is not my pen that poked you there."

"Smart-assed writer, too, but touché. It is your pen that conjured up that no-good-for-nothing-miserable-lying-clod-character and seduced me to his bed. He said he'd call. Lying bast..."

"Okay, wait a minute. I did not write that story. Are you sure you have the right writer?"

"Yes. I'm sure; you know 'his denim shirt fell open to reveal taut, tanned skin, wet with the heat of labored work in the hot summer sun. His hand wiped a fallen lock of jet black hair from his forehead, and I could almost taste the salt on my tongue from his perspiration..."

"Whoa, back the hot bus up. Haven't had the chance to do cheesy romance yet, so, definitely not mine... but, mind if I use that..."

"Wait, you are not Harlequin. Oh, my... copyright... gotta go!"

Your characters are not the only ones getting into sticky situations. You must remember to check all the legalities of writing when you choose to publish your story. Don't go using another author's characters - develop your own. Make them real. Check out copyright laws - here in Canada, of course, as soon as you write something it is protected, but it can't just be a line or an idea. You can't copyright those. You should also check the names of your characters by doing a Google search - just a first name here and there doesn't need to be checked. There are a million and one people with the name John, Robert, Anne, Elizabeth, Jason, Jennifer... and so on. But if you are going to use a full name, first and last, check it out before you go inserting that poor being into life altering predicaments. Even if you use the disclaimer that insists "no person, alive or dead, is depicted in this work, and similarities or likenesses are purely coincidental." It's just best not to go there.

The most important thing to remember when writing a new story is to not let the development of your character hold up your creative process. It is good story planning to sit down with them before you start the actual story to get to know them, especially if you are planning something as lengthy as a new novel. A character outline or sketch allows you the unhurried task of determining characteristics and based on the descriptions - personality traits, idiosyncrasies, habits, hobbies, physical features, etc. - all will determine how a character acts and reacts to whatever situation you happen to dream up for them.

"Hi, there. Time for my story. Am I late?"

"No. Actually, you are "write" on time."

A True Artist Never Stops Learning

By Ashley Laura Smith

This month I found myself having trouble writing my book. My drive for writing was still there but I was unable to get anything on the page. Whether it was the fear of the blank page or just that I wasn't able to find the right words to express what I needed to, I was at a place that no writer likes; a place where it seems impossible to break down that wall that haunts our nightmares.

But truth be told, I found something that did break down that looming wall of paralyzing dread. This weekend I joined a journaling class. I know what you're thinking. How could a journaling class possibly break down a mental wall I had on a novel? Well, let me tell you it worked. What I liked about this class was that it wasn't just about the ability to write a blog or journal, it's focus was getting you to write. It didn't matter what it was. You were writing.

The dreaded blank page couldn't defeat me now! I knew how to defeat it and some of those tips I had already known, just never connected them with breaking down that wall.

The first exercise that was done was Free Writing. It didn't matter what you wrote just set a timer for two, five, ten minutes, or whatever you were comfortable with. You could even start out saying, "Oh my gosh this is the worst thing I've ever had to do in my whole entire my life..." As long as you didn't stop moving your pen or typing for those few minutes you were golden. Some who started out feeling that it was the worst thing ever ended up moving on to some angsty teenage story or a memory from the past. My free writing turned into a flash back my character had about walking on a deserted road with gravel crunching beneath her feet. In four minutes, I had written almost a full page and that was more than I had written on the novel in over a year. And even though we stopped I knew how to continue the scene and I didn't want to stop.

The second exercise is one of my favorites but it doesn't always work for me. There are a few websites and books out there to give inspiration to writers. They're filled with pictures, quotes, and prompts- some even have music- to get your wheels spinning. The picture our teacher chose was a forest scene with a path. Once again I was drawn into my story where my main character is walking down a path, feeling guilty about something she had just done when a deer comes from the woods and lays down beside her. By opening myself up to the picture, I was able to imagine a scene that I hadn't thought about including in the story.

The final exercise we did was one I do for National Novel Writing Month. Though my teacher did called it by a different name, I call mine "The Dare Jar". Please insert dramatic music when reading the name. Generally if we're feeling bored we'll go over to the dare jar and fill out some slips of paper and then put them in the jar. The best way to do this is- if you don't have a writer's group to help in this effort- have a friend or a few friends and family members write down random quotes or situations and stick them all in the jar. Once they are done and you find yourself at a fork in the road, pull out one of these treacherous slips of paper and WHAM! Time to plug that baby in to your story or if it just doesn't fit write something completely unrelated to your story! If you wrote something different, once your done come back to your story and see if you've found a new angle for how to continue. If not feel free to pull another dare! It's just like in painting. You may have panted something one day and you're not sure where to go from there, leaving it alone or looking at it from a different angle might help you. Look at the big picture rather than the small details.

I hope some of my suggestions have helped you. And if they have I'd love to hear from you and know what you accomplish with them! Feel free to contact me on my personal blog www.ashleylaurasmith.wordpress.com

Author Spotlight: Bryan W. Dull and his book, Solstice

By Beth Ann Masarik

Currently living in Cincinnati, OH with his wife (and fellow author Brandy Michelle) and their daughter. Bryan W. Dull goes leaps and bounds to get away from the norm and be his own person; with himself and his writing. Since middle school he has always known what he was good at: entertaining and telling stories. He has been consistently writing and coming up with plots for the last twenty years, but just recently decided to share one with the world. His first novel, "Solstice" is a vampire book inspired by his daughter and noir literature. Born in Anderson, IN, Bryan has also lived in Ohio, Florida, North Carolina and South Carolina (where "Solstice" is based).

Being a lover of all things art and pop culture "nerdism"; his interests lie in film, television, comics, games, anime, and books. For a short while, Bryan dabbled in voice acting work only to shift his focus to his family and writing. His favorite authors include; Chuck Palahniuk, Robert Kirkman, Clive Barker, Ernest Cline, and Neil Gaiman.

About Solstice:

In Gavin Moxley's world, there is no thin line between right and wrong. In a personal crusade to help sever a line of disease carried by a clan of vampires; Gavin has no choice to be ruthless. The Vampires are purposely infecting the human population...waiting for humans to actively pass it on to each other. Gavin takes no chances and executes them one by one. Not strong or powerful, finding humans before they turn into full vampires is ideal and Gavin's best bet.

Yes, this is Gavin's life...

...And nothing ever changes it until a young half breed vampire with special abilities, Solstice, attaches and makes herself a fixture in his life when she asks for his help and protection and when a reluctant Gavin agrees he joins a dangerous game of cat and mouse. There is no safe place and the pair are constantly watching their backs. Torn between his hate and his love for Solstice Gavin is thrown into a moral dilemma that only he can figure out but two things are clear...

His faith and Humanity are being tested and the past is not always forgotten.

Where to purchase:

Ebook : http://www.amazon.com/Solstice-Chronicles-ebook/dp/B00B27KUG4/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1358983877&sr=8-1&keywords=solstice+bryan+dull

Paperback: http://www.amazon.com/Solstice-Bryan-Dull/dp/061575712X/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1358983877&sr=8-2&keywords=solstice+bryan+dull

Author page:

http://www.amazon.com/Bryan-Dull/e/B005MVMTI8

Goodreads:

http://www.goodreads.com/author/show/5829383.Bryan_W_Dull

——————————————————————–

Twitter: @BWDull

Facebook:

https://www.facebook.com/Solstice.Book1

——————————————————————–

Blog:

http://www.wix.com/mryams/solsticechronicles/apps/blog

Website:

www.bryanwdull.com

My Journey to Publishing

By S.K. Whiteside.

I would like to tell you that I always wanted to be a writer. Truth is, I just kind of "stumbled" into it. I mean, I read (like A LOT) and I love writing and it has always been a passion of mine but the concept of writing as a career never crossed my mind. When my Graduate School professor handed me back my multi-cultural counseling paper on Counseling African Americans and stated I should look into writing because she loved my voice I even dismissed it.

Enter Reality TV.

Yes you saw correctly.

I said Reality TV.

With the wave of brain function damaging shows like "Basketball Wives" and "Keeping up with the Kardashians." I suddenly felt the urge to write. I wanted to write to escape the mindless hum of Jersey Shore and The Bachelor. After a post on how Writing and author friend stated that she loved my voice (not VERBALLY people) and thinks I had found my niche. For whatever reason after her feedback I decided to venture into the scary world of writing.

I started with the short stories. I wrote Fallen as a teaser to another story and from there an entire world was created (hence the "stumble into"). Apparently I had a bunch of words that wanted to be put on paper because they just sort of flowed out of my fingers and onto the screen. Finding a publisher was a bit tricky. I only had the shorts Fallen and Haunted and didn't have an anthology to submit to. So I pitched my OWN Anthology to Crushing Hearts and Black Butterfly Publishing. My pitch was accepted and Morbid Seraphic Anthology along with the rest was kind of history. I chose to take charge of what I wanted and seized my opportunity. Some people chose to do so by self-publishing others search for literary agents. That's the joy about writing. It's all about what you want to deliver and how motivated you are to do it. I was lucky but not everyone else is. The most inspiring thing I remember whenever I try to query something new is that Harry Potter was rejected a dozen times before someone gave it a chance.

About S.K. Whiteside:

bio: S.K. Whiteside is a young adult writer of Paranormal/Fantasy, Horror, & Suspense. As a full time Mental Health Therapist, she started writing in Academia but decided writing about things on the "other side of the veil" was not only profitable but a lot more interesting. Her earlier works are Paranormal Erotic Romance under a pen name that she continues to explore writing to this day. Living in the Paranormal capital of the world makes it fairly easy for her to come up with characters, many of which are based off of real personas in her life that she can't help but carry over into her writing.

S.K. Whiteside is a Fiction Weaver and World Creator. It just so happens that the worlds she creates are often filled with things that go bump in the night. A New Orleanian at heart, the deep south often serves as the setting for her Paranormal Tales of the unknown. Her Charismatic characters and snarky banter often derive from the various personas of those she loves and the voices in her head. When not writing she spends her time telling everyone else in the world that they are completely bonkers but yet she often channels Napoleon Bonaparte. During her down time she pokes at the massive giant whom holds her captive and runs from two monsters that she swears are out to kill her. Some people call them her husband and children but she knows the truth...

You can find S.K. Whiteside on the following places:

Website: www.skwhiteside.com

Email: skwhiteside@skwhiteside.com

Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/S.K.Whiteside

Amazon Author Page: http://www.amazon.com/S.K.-Whiteside/e/B007JL789Y/ref=ntt_athr_dp_pel_1

Blog: http://subjectivedictation.blogspot.com/

YouTube Trailers:

Morbid Seraphic: http://youtu.be/s4w6Zs5QxMk

Vexed: http://youtu.be/xk43sTvw5qA

Inheritance: (Formally Guardian of the Gate)http://youtu.be/K6sSpFZtyTQ

Out and Equal

by Selisse Berry

I realized a longtime dream with the publication of Out & Equal at Work: From Closet to Corner Office, because it captures the great human rights movement of our time: equality for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) community. A large part of the book is sharing the growth of Out & Equal Workplace Advocates, the organization I founded fifteen years ago to advance workplace equality for LGBT people. Out & Equal has grown into an international nonprofit organization working with multinational corporations, executives, employee resource group leaders, and diversity professionals to create more inclusive workplaces.

The idea for Out & Equal at Work grew organically. Through the years, I've had the opportunity to work directly with senior executives and employee resource group leaders who are affecting change for LGBT people in the world's largest corporations. I was inspired by these professionals who work tirelessly to change attitudes in their companies by coming out as LGBT, and by allies who educate and advocate for inclusive policies and benefits. I reached out to these leaders and invited them to join me in sharing our stories. I was so honored with the results – that so many powerful people were happy to share their stories – including the CEO of Intuit, who is an important ally to the LGBT community, and openly LGBT senior executives from the Walt Disney Company, the Clorox Company, Campbell Soup, Merck, IBM, Dell, Hewlett-Packard, Deloitte, Wells Fargo, and many other top corporations.

Publishing Out & Equal at Work was meaningful for me because it came after a long journey that began with my first realization that I am a lesbian. At the time, I was studying in seminary to become a Presbyterian minister. I learned very quickly that, if I came out and chose to live my life honestly and openly, I would not be allowed to be ordained as a minister. I decided that being my authentic self was the right decision, even if it meant a complete overhaul of my life plans. From that point forward, I had a new goal: to dedicate my life to creating workplace equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people in the workplace, with the hope that one day people will no longer have to choose between a career they love and living their lives with authenticity and integrity.

Out & Equal at Work is the first time that business leaders, including C-Suite executives from Fortune 500 Companies have come together to share their personal stories of facing discrimination and forwarding LGBT equality in the workplace. In many ways it is a book that reminds us that it really does get better. I also hope that it will inspire people, including you, to become involved in Out & Equal's efforts to expand workplace equality. There are many ways to become involved with Out & Equal: our headline events like the Workplace Summit, the annual LGBT Executive Forum and Momentum Leadership Celebration, local Regional Affiliate events, and training for your organization. We also host free monthly Town Call webinars, maintaining the world's largest registry of LGBT employee resource groups which connects LGBT employee resource group leaders from around the world. Contact info@outandequal.org with any questions.

Copies of Out & Equal at Work can be purchased online, or via Amazon for electronic versions.

Synopsis of Out and Equal:

A major transformation is happening in today's workplace. This groundbreaking anthology chronicles personal narratives from lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and allied executive trailblazers who have conquered adversity and ushered in policies that affirm and support the LGBT community in the workplace. Out & Equal at Work profiles an advocacy organization located at the intersection of the private sector and the broader social movement: Out & Equal Workplace Advocates, and its visionary Founding Executive Director, Selisse Berry.

About Selisse Berry

Selisse Berry is Founding Executive Director of Out & Equal Workplace Advocates. Under her leadership, the organization has grown significantly with dramatic increases in attendance at the annual Workplace Summit and the expansion of programs and global initiatives. Selisse is a frequent speaker on workplace equality and has spoken across the United States and abroad including recent presentations in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Italy, Canada, Hungary, the West Indies, and Mexico. Her most recent awards include the Outstanding Hero Congressional Recognition from Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi; the Parks Award* in Rome, Italy; and the KQED Local Heroes Award** in San Francisco, California. Selisse is the editor of Out & Equal at Work: From Closet to Corner Office, Out & Equal's new anthology of personal stories of executive trailblazers who have transformed the workplace for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people.

Selisse's clear and unwavering vision has been instrumental in creating an international organization whose philosophy reflects the importance of treating all colleagues in the workplace with respect and dignity. Since her first job as a guidance counselor, Selisse has continued her commitment to justice as a teacher and as a leader of several social service organizations prior to founding Out & Equal Workplace Advocates. She has master's degrees in education and theology from the University of Texas and San Francisco Theological Seminary respectively. Selisse and her wife, Cynthia Martin, were legally married in California in 2008.

*The Parks Award was given by Parks – liberi e uguali, a nonprofit organization advocating for LGBT workplace equality in Italy.

You can find Selisse at the following sites:

Twitter: @outandequal

Website: www.outandequal.org

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/OutAndEqualWorkplaceAdvocates

Out & Equal Workplace Advocates

Founded by Executive Director Selisse Berry, Out & Equal Workplace Advocates is the world's largest nonprofit organization specifically dedicated to creating safe and equitable workplaces for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people.

The organization has grown significantly with dramatic increases in attendance for the annual Workplace Summit, the expansion of regional affiliates across the United States, and many global initiatives. Out & Equal has created numerous programs to advance its mission, including the first Global Summit in London, the annual Out & Equal Workplace Summit, the LGBT Executive Forum and Leadership Celebration, bimonthly Town Call seminars and the world's largest registry of LGBT Employee Resource Groups.

Out & Equal is committed to creating safe and equitable workplace environments for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender employees. We believe that people should be judged by the work they do, not by their sexual orientation or gender identity. Every day, we work to protect and empower employees to be productive and successful—so they can support themselves, their families, and contribute to achieving a world free of discrimination for everyone.

Dressing the Part

By EY Wade

With the removal of the warm, thick hooded coat of January's obscurity, we exit the first month of the year and step into the blatant exposure of February's stark cold reality. Where scars of old are unceremoniously ripped open, let to bleed and reawaken hurt and pain, all in the guise of history, recognition and celebration. February, the only month of the year I have no choice, but to dress the part and look at myself as being more than just another human. In February I am no longer a common American or a mere woman. I am reminded I am different. I am a Black American. This difference which in actual fact goes no deeper than the upper level of pigmentation of the skin, has been the determining factor of life and death. Success and failure love and hate.

I like to think of myself as a very free thinking open minded person. Never see myself as a color nor do I feel as if I should slot myself as a particular race...until someone or some event points it out. In February, the event is Black History Month. In February I pull on my best Baptist Church Lady clothes, slap on the big hat, hold my head up high, poke out my chest and look down on the peons as I sit and watch the lives and deaths of my ancestors being exposed to the world. And I want to cry. I hurt for the ancestors of those who committed those crimes. I cry for the newer generation who do not follow the hateful discrimination of their family members. How disappointed they must be in their forefathers. How tired they must be of having to relive this year after year. I know I am. I'm tired of being seen as a color. I just want to be known for who I am. I sometimes wonder if Black Americans fight a losing battle for equalization because the battle is not against 'us' per say, but against a sense of shame. Shame for an action is hard to wipe away. You can apologize for wrongs which have been done but as long as the object of shame is seen, the shame is still there and eventually shame is substituted with anger and irritation and the object becomes a victim again.

As long as we (Black people) have been in America you would assume we would now be an integral part of her structure. We shouldn't have to be paraded in front of the world one month out of a year. We shouldn't have to repeatedly shove the atrocities committed to our ancestors in the faces of all. These things are facts of history and should be taught to our children on the daily as are all aspects of things that have occurred in America. Though we strive to be like our White counterparts, accepted unconditionally we are still fighting to be tolerated. I call this ridiculousness. In order to tolerate someone or something we have to step out of our comfort zone. The hardest thing in man's mind is to be tolerant of another or to keep an open mind. We judge without thought because something or someone is different.

As an author of color I have to confess the trepidation I felt when having my books published. The doubts I harbor have nothing to do with my ability as a writer, but in the willingness of the non-colored world to accept my writings. To read the words and see people who live through the same kind of situations and handle things in the same way as any breathing individual. We don't all gang bang, use drugs, or live the baby-mama drama. I laugh now at my wish to keep my face and bio off the back covers. Life is not fair nor is it equal in its praises or recognition.

Humans are a selfish entity believing we are better than another because of our race, religion or sexual orientation. The fight for racial and social equalization continues and will continue as long as man breathes. Our unification should grow because of our differences and if we are honest with ourselves we would accept the fact our differences are only skin deep. In religion, anyone can choose which path to follow. In education, we can all go as far as we choose. In sexual orientation, again it's a choice. In jobs or professionalism, whether or not to be a parent, or who to marry all are conscious choices.

If we are honest we will accept the fact, tension in the world boils down to the color of a person's skin, ridiculousness. We can do all, be all, live in the White House and in the end we are still Black and seen as blight.

In the history book Beads on a String-America's Racially Intertwined Biographical History chapter three is titled Voices of Change it begins with this quote "There are, it may be, so many kinds of voices in the world, and none of them are without signification." 1 Corinthians 14:10 and has a section dedicated to activism and the people who stepped out to confront the injustices directed at people of specific ethnicities. As the author I started the chapter with a small bit of history pertaining to members of my family. These members (father and cousin) fought and succeeded in the desegregation of what is now Lamar University in Beaumont, Texas. How many of us cannot find a single member of our family who has participated in the formation of history? It doesn't matter the color of your skin or your belief system we have all voiced and accomplished a change. We are all significant. This belief is the reason I wrote Beads on a String. In my robes as the home-schooling parent/professor I wanted to teach my daughters to celebrate the accomplishments of all Americans regardless of the labels stamped on their lives. It is a book of great importance and has received outstanding reviews.

We, if only seen as a 'casing' or a vessel cannot change, as a thinking individual we can cause enormous changes. We just have to be tolerant of the differences and learn from history. Remember history was written in more than Black and White.

About EY Wade

Ey Wade was born in Texas and reared as an Army brat. She is, and has always been the single parent of three daughters who were previously home-schooled and are now either attending college or graduated from college and is now the new drooling 'Lovey' to her first grandchild.

"I am inspired to write by my children, life's experiences, and things that happen in the world. I consider myself to be a caged in frustrated author of thought provoking, mind bending, entertaining books. I am an occasional step-in parent for the needy, a fountain of knowledge, and ready to share."

Ey writes in various genres and currently has nine books published. Three are in print and all of the major eBook stores and is working to have three more out before the end of the year. Her most recent novel is titled D.N.A.-Nothing Would Ever Be the Same (YA) which is about a teen who makes one wrong choice after another, but doesn't follow the traditional route when dealing with her situation.

Beads on a String-America's Racially Intertwined Biographical History-(creative non-fiction)

The Fishing Trip (suspense)- A man reeks revenge on a town for the horrors he endured as a child.

The Perfect Solution-(women's/suspense) A three year old is mistakenly given to a stalker by his pre-school teacher.

The Women of the Hill (women's fiction) Five friends surviving a relationship with the same person.

When One Door Closes (women's fiction)4 shorts and a long story of dramas in life

(3 Picture Books)Who Will Hug the Sun, Between the Two of Them, and Without a Sound, Without a Peep

Which can all be found at all of the major bookstores: Amazon(US),Amazon-UK, Sony or Kobo, Nook, iTunes, and Smashwords

InknBeans Press

Wade-In Publishing http://wade-inpublishing.com

Facebook http://face.book.com/eywade2

Twitter http://twitter.com/jumpouttheboat

Author Spotlight: Where We Left Off

By J. Alex Blane

Some memories you do your best to forget. Others you wish you simply had the opportunity to remember. Mason Everett found himself in the center of both, as he felt the warmth of an autumn sun graze his face through the tinted windows.

A successful Real-estate developer, Mason had his picture perfect life. He was young, handsome, wealthy and single. No stranger to frequent hook ups at the local night clubs he avoided relationships at all costs living tirelessly by one rule:

"Never let anyone close enough again to hurt you"

Until he found himself falling for Sydney McCail, a young woman he met at his brother's wedding. In the midst of a developing relationship Mason's past begins to surface causing him to push Sydney away in fear of her finding out a secret he'd kept hidden for most of his adult life. In the wake of a tragic accident she finds what she thought she knew was only the beginning, and what happens from there leaves them both searching for answers to a single question in what turns out to be a startling outcome, Where We Left Off.

About J. Alex Blane

J. Alex Blane is an author, novelist, and self-publisher. His debut Novel "Where We Left Off" was his first break in the literary world of fiction romance, but definitely not his last as he is currently working on his second. A Multi-Media developer by trade, his creativity is fascinating. And from a number of his reviews, so is his ability to draw you into his writing, his suspense...his story.

A native of a small city in Pennsylvania, Alex is a graduate of Wilmington University where he received both his graduate and undergraduate degree. Before becoming a full-time writer, he worked as a Career Counselor within the University and a media developer for design firm he and a friend founded in 2004. He's always had a passion of writing, telling himself one day he was going to write a book. After nearly eight years of deciding to put his pen to a piece of paper he finally finished, Where We Left Off, a story that has evolved with his many life experiences into something to this day he will say he never expected.

Alex currently resides in Bear, Delaware with his wife and his two small children where they share a small home just right for him to sneak off into a little corner and write more of what he loves and where he is currently at work on his next novel. He is a member of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity, Inc., Nu Upsilon Chapter in Wilmington, Delaware, a father and a husband. Alex loves to tell a good story, but more than that he loves to make you feel as if you are right there as it's happening; a part of the feelings, the emotions, the joys and the sadness's. Pull up a chair, or find that special place where you can escape the world around you and get to know a few new people. That's how he makes you feel, as if you are just as important reading the story as the characters living it.

Where to find him and buy his book:

Website – www.jalexblane.com

Facebook Page – http://www.facebook.com/authorj.alexblane

Facebook Fane Page – www.facebook.com/whereweleftoff

Book is available through www.amazon.com in Kindle & Print (February 14, 2013)

Amazon Author Link www.amazon.com/author/jalexblane

Why I Write

By Cora Blu

Thank you, Literary Lunes, for hosting me today. My name is Cora Blu and I write Romance: Interracial, Underwater Fantasy and Sci-fi. Today I was asked to share my experience as a writer.

That is a miniseries waiting for the actors to show up and take their places. No, actually my experiences as a writer aren't heinous and filled with horror stories. After reading romance novels since I was a teen, I seldom related to the heroine. Every story was a fantasy no matter the genre because the heroine was never black.

I began writing for fun to create the heroine I could relate to, and those became the books I read through the years. Many years later after I was in the work place, I picked up my writing again and found I had an audience among my co-workers. At the beginning of each week, someone would meet me in the parking structure and ask how much did I write and do I have it with me so they could read it on lunch?

Well that leads to printing stories in folders and watching people work with the notebooks propped in their cubicles where they could read as they worked.

That was not good when you work with money. So after nightly prodding from co-workers to publish I got in contact with a few of the authors who's books I enjoyed through the years. They directed me on courses to take and groups to become involved with to properly write my stories.

After a death threat at work we decided it was time to put my words to work and become a fulltime writer.

The story that was loved so much by the midnight shift was "Stranded but not Alone"

The ladies gave my hero Seth the title "Foreplay in the Forest"

Thank you for allowing me to share a bit of myself with your readers today. I have three books coming out in the next three months and would love to have your readers check them out by staying connected to my site for updates.

Those who know my series, Brothers of Element Series, Blade will be out this March. No date but it will be March.

My Midnight Moaning Collection "You Called Me" will be out in March as well as a two book serial, not series. I hope you have a chance to read my work and let me know what you think.

Because there is so much I share with my readers, you may like to check out some of these locations where I share pictures and recipes and so much more of myself and my writing and any updates.

www.corablu.com/blog

https://www.facebook.com/corabluromanticwaves

http://pinterest.com/corablu5/

Sincerely, Cora Blu

Writing Advice I Wish Someone Had Told Me I had Been Smart Enough To Listen To

By Jenny Milchman

Here's the reason I had to employ the cross-out in the title.

Thirteen years ago, when I finished my first 180,000 word suspense novel and was trying to get an agent, my mother said something to me.

You know, we don't listen to our mothers anywhere near enough. I didn't anyway. My response to my mom was to utterly dismiss her. What did she know? She wasn't a writer.

This is what she said: "I think you're going to make it. I think you have talent. But you're coming at this as a complete outsider, and I think it's going to take time. Maybe as long as ten years."

"Ten years?!" I gasped. "That's crazy. That's the most insane thing I've ever heard. It's nuts. You're nuts."

How many years did it take me?

Eleven.

So, what else was I wrong about?

Well, some of you may have caught the fact that the novel I dared to query with was too long. Waaay too long. 180,000 words for suspense—especially debut suspense—is unsaleable. It wasn't my mother who told me that, but several writing books I read did mention it, and I still didn't listen. My book would be the exception surely. Just as soon as everyone figured out that every single one of those words was needed.

Then one day a literary agent wrote me a single-spaced page of critique, and something he said sparked something in me. I sat down and over the course of two weeks cut 60,000 of those words. So much for essential.

Finally I was beginning to listen.

The thing I wish I'd known to do was acknowledge how vast and crenulated this craft of ours is. How much there is to learn. Seeking out teachers—literal ones in workshops and classes—as well as people who can school us—critique group members, agent blogs, writers on listservs and forums—can significantly shorten your learning curve.

What happened after I cut all those words? Well, I got an offer from an agent. In fact, I had written a second—shorter—novel while revising the first, and I was lucky enough to get an offer on that book as well. However, the agent I signed with didn't receive an offer for my novel.

The other thing I wish I'd known was that agents don't sell all the projects they take on. When you are lucky enough to sign with an agent, don't consider your job done. Write another book—your agent may go on to sell that one. Continue going to conferences and author events at bookstores; widen your face-to-face network of people. Develop an online presence. These are the people who will keep you going when times get tough with support and wise words. One day, some of them may be your readers.

The world in which people are becoming writers today is a different one from where I started. When I began, there was only one publishing course to follow. I had to find an agent, then hope my agent received an offer from a publisher. Nowadays there are more and more presses for which you don't need an agent, and a self-publishing path that has a whole new name—indie publishing—and increasing legitimacy.

But that gives writers a whole new task. You will start your writing career off well if you learn enough about the publishing paths to know which one is right for you. There isn't a best path—just pros and cons to each. The one you pursue should depend on the kind of book you've written, the kind of career you hope to have, and the kind of person you are.

Don't worry—all of this is doable. You're years ahead of where I was because you're reading blogs like this one, seeking to hear different takes, sift through them, and apply what resonates to your own work.

I'd like to say that I am here if anyone might want to ask about their own individual journey. Till then, I offer three tips:

Give your craft time to develop, mature, get truly good. Don't rush to publish. Solicit feedback and learn how to tell which kinds of criticisms mean there's still work to be done.

Once you decide on a publishing path, go after it with all your might and heart. At the end of the day, the distribution of quality is the same whether you're self-published, with a micro press, or a major house. Some ghastly books, a lot of okay ones, and a very few great ones. Try to be great. Even if you just get close.

Don't ever give up. Ignore the voice in your head—and the voices from outside—that wonder if this is ever going to happen. It will happen. Unless you quit trying, you haven't failed. You just haven't succeeded yet.

About Jenny Milchman

Jenny Milchman is a suspense novelist from New Jersey whose short stories have appeared in Ellery Queen Mystery Magazine, Adirondack Mysteries II, and in an e-published volume called Lunch Reads. Jenny is the founder of Take Your Child to a Bookstore Day, and the chair of International Thriller Writers' Debut Authors Program. Her first novel, Cover of Snow, is published by Ballantine.

Jenny can be reached at http://jennymilchman.com and she blogs athttp://suspenseyourdisbelief.com

About Cover of Snow:

Waking up one wintry morning in her old farmhouse nestled in the Adirondack Mountains of New York, Nora Hamilton instantly knows that something is wrong. When her fog of sleep clears, she finds her world is suddenly, irretrievably shattered: Her husband, Brendan, has committed suicide.

The first few hours following Nora's devastating discovery pass for her in a blur of numbness and disbelief. Then, a disturbing awareness slowly settles in: Brendan left no note and gave no indication that he was contemplating taking his own life. Why would a rock-solid police officer with unwavering affection for his wife, job, and quaint hometown suddenly choose to end it all? Having spent a lifetime avoiding hard truths, Nora must now start facing them.

Unraveling her late husband's final days, Nora searches for answers—but meets with bewildering resistance from Brendan's best friend and partner, his fellow police officers, and his brittle mother. It quickly becomes clear to Nora that she is asking questions no one wants to answer. For beneath the soft cover of snow lies a powerful conspiracy that will stop at nothing to keep its presence unknown . . . and its darkest secrets hidden.

Halfway There

By SF Chapman

A story's trip from the first little stirrings of an idea in an author's head to a physical object that an enthusiastic reader can enjoy is a long and perilous one.

I've been down that road before and it is not for the slack or thin-skinned.

Completing a manuscript is just the beginning of the trek. All writers benefit greatly from the scrutiny of several different editors. Avoid the tendency to skimp on these vital independent assessments of your work.

I have three very good friends who read through each of my manuscripts at least twice. They mark up the clean white pages with long, loopy arrows and questions scribbled in the margins: "You've used this word several times. Try something else here." or "So I'm unclear on this, is the cat a robot?"

After weeks of work, I sit down with each of the editors and they let me have it. Generally, they tell me things that I already know about the story: A certain character needs some more development or a plot twist is too confusing. But occasionally I get a surprise; perhaps all three of them loved a particular chapter or spotted a subtle inside joke that I wove though the story arc.

When it's all over, I go over the whole manuscript with particular attention to the issues and discrepancies noted by my editors.

The result is a story that most readers will enjoy.

I've been through this process of writing and rigorous editing many times.

At this point the story is halfway there.

My intent has been to publish two books per year, the first in February and the second in July. In 2012 my first novel I'm here to help came out in mid summer and in 2013 The Ripple in Space-Time and On the Back of the Beast will be released.

This publishing model centers around two very different processes, both of which take about six months to complete: Physically transforming a manuscript into a tangible or virtual book and working through a carefully planned publicity campaign.

Good formatting and an attractive appearance are vital to generate sales of a book. Idle shoppers at a bookstore will pick up those volumes with intriguing covers and steer clear of those that are lacking. Many otherwise noteworthy novels in the Kindle or Nook stores go unread because of amateurishly bad covers and terribly laid out interiors.

Put in the effort and the money to generate a book that doesn't look like a bad 5th grade term paper.

I use a very good local Graphics Designer to produce my covers and format the interiors.

Writers are seldom very good at generating successful publicity campaigns. In this area I strongly recommend hiring professionals. Good publicists are constantly interacting with bookstore owners, bloggers and media people to find the best opportunities to promote new books. Enjoy their efforts on your behalf.

When your book finally publishes, relish those book signings, delight in those obscure questions about your minor characters and take the occasional sub par review in stride; it is all part of the process.

It's an arduous journey from a rough manuscript to an enthusiastic reader but it's well worth the effort.

For more information about SF Chapman, you can find him on the following sites:

AUTHOR WEBSITE: http://www.sfchapman.com/

FACEBOOK:  https://www.facebook.com/pages/S-F-Chapman/308495295894824?skip_nax_wizard=true

TWITTER: @SF_Chapman – http://www.twitter.com/SF_Chapman

GOODREADS:  http://www.goodreads.com/author/show/5831998.S_F_Chapman

AMAZON LINK: http://www.amazon.com/Ripple-Space-Time-S-F-Chapman/dp/0985536918/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1357839521&sr=1-1&keywords=The+Ripple+in+Space-Time

NETGALLEY WIDGET: http://tinyurl.com/TheRippleinSpaceTime

The Alabama Rebel: A Novel of Courage Amid Conflict

By R. Thomas Roe

Synopsis: This historically based novel is a window into Alabama both before, during and after the Civil War. River Hunter is the son of a Cherokee mother and a Scotch-Irish father who has a unique perspective on a society that undergoes a radical shift forced on it by the War. River's father is presumed dead after disappearing on a trapping trip into the mountains of the Carolinas, so, River's mother gathers her children and they move to the cotton belt of Alabama to avoid being shipped west by President Jackson during the Removal time for Native Americans. River rapidly adapts to the new life and has an insatiable appetite for knowledge, reading books at every opportunity. In time he obtains a formal education at recognized academies and universities. Following his heroic service in the Confederate Army during the Civil War and schooling at one of the nation's most prestigious law schools, River becomes an attorney. He is then betrothed to a beautiful young woman who has inherited a substantial plantation upon the death of her husband in the War. Many problems plague the young couple from the forces existing in the South after the War to the prejudicial attitudes of River's inlaws to the polarized politics between the newly freed Slaves and their former owners. This fascinating novel exams all sides within the context of a very unique segment of American history.

Book Information:

ISBN: 978-1935991816

Fiction, 286 Pages

Signalman Publishing, October 2, 2012

Available on Paperback

River's family moves from the Carolinas to Alabama to avoid being shipped west by President Jackson during the removal time for Native America, but they are certainly not in the clear there either. It was interesting to see River's reactions to slavery as he faced his own discriminations. Was there an underlying message there?

The underlying message was that River, too, was of the underclass, and as such he sympathized with those of his status or below. River's overriding principles of fairness and equality sourced primarily from his Indian culture guided his opinions in all matters including the issue of slavery. Yet his own family had slaves, Mammy and Will, although they were treated more as family than slaves. River also understood the need the South had for the institution to support the marketing of the crop that supported the South economically. In the novel, River is not in favor of slavery and is also not overly opposed to it. I generally left it to the reader to determine River's attitude towards slavery.

Why do you think the Native American story is so under told in Civil War literature?

Not many people are aware of the involvement of Native Americans in the Civil War. I am only familiar with the Cherokee Indians of the Southeast who generally favored the South in the Civil War. Stand Watie who was principal chief of the Cherokees during the War years was a general in the Confederate Army and a strong supporter of southern independence. The Cherokees along with other southeastern Indian tribes were generally opposed to the national government primarily due to the pressure President Jackson had put upon them in the 1830 time frame to leave their native lands and move to the Indian Territories in Oklahoma.

Where do you think River found his courage?

River was raised to honor and live by the principles of the Cherokee Nation. He was taught to respect honor, courage, honesty and personal responsibility. Those were his guiding principles in the decisions he made in the novel.

River was a rebel in more ways than one. What does the title of the book ultimately mean to you?

To me, I wanted to portray River as a person guided by his own principles and not one to go with the flow. I wanted him to appear as a very human person, brave but not without fear. Frequently faced with difficult choices. I wanted to show him as a role model for people who question how to deal with the problems life presents.

When I decided to be a Writer

By Shannon Greenland

When I decided to be a writer I had no clue where to start. I knew what I loved to read and so that naturally was what I decided to write—romantic suspense. I wrote my first novel, Discovering Veronica, and joined Romance Writers of America. It was through that organization that I learned the true craft of writing.

I went to workshops, monthly meetings, conferences. I met editors, agents, and other writers. I rewrote that first novel, went onto a second, and then a third. I signed with a small press, Echelocn, garnered awards, great reviews, and really learned the ins and outs of the industry.

It was after my third romantic suspense that my critique partner suggested I try young adult. "Shannon, you have a young voice," she said. I balked, "Me? Teen fiction? What do I know about teens?" Oh, that's right, I used to be one!

So I sat down and jotted some ideas, circled around and around, and finally decided on teen spies. Honestly, about the third page in, I knew I had found my voice, my genre. It flew from me. And hence was bornModel Spy the first of five books in The Specialists series.

About a month after finishing that first teen book, I was at a conference networking over margaritas and small talk and struck up a conversation with a woman I later learned was an agent. She came up to me later, handed me her business card, and told me she'd like to see mySpecialists proposal. To say I was shocked puts it extremely lightly.

I raced home, immediately emailed her the proposal, and two weeks later she called with an offer of representation. Two weeks after that she had negotiated a deal with Penguin for my spy series. I look back on it all and kind of shake my head in disbelief.

Since then I finished all five books in the series: Model Spy, Down To The Wire, The Winning Element, Native Tongue, and Fight To The Finish. And then I went on to my first young adult single title, The Summer My Life Began.

So if I could back track would I do things differently? I used to think I might, but now I'm happy with my journey. Every writer has their personal path and whatever path that is it will only make you stronger and grow as an author.

ABOUT SHANNON GREENLAND:

Shannon Greenland dreaded reading and writing as a kid. Ironic, as she's now a successful award-winning author. Her 5-book series for young adults, The Specialists, as well as her other novels, received such honors as National Booksellers Best, Daphne du Maurier and Romantic Times recognition, National Readers Choice, CAPA nominee, Aspen Gold Readers Choice Award, Holt Medallion and the Popular Paperback award from the American Library Association. Penguin Publishing launched Greenland's latest novel The Summer My Life Began in May 2012, and brings her entire spy series to e-form this winter. When not writing, Shannon's eager for adventure outside of a book's pages. Hiking, rafting, climbing, caving, swimming, snorkeling, sailing, surfing, mountain biking, spelunking, canoeing, power lifting, running, camping, para sailing . . . she's done it all.

Originally from Tennessee, the world traveler divides her time between Florida and Virginia where she mentors, tutors, and teaches math and gives authors talks at area schools.

You can find Shannon on the following networks:

Twitter: @shannongreenlan

Facebook: Shannon Greenland

Website: www.shannongreenland.com

Goodreads: http://www.goodreads.com/author/show/345637.Shannon_Greenla

No Walk in the Park

By RJ Tolson

First thing is first, writing a book was no walk in the park. Before I had finished my first novel, I had written hundreds of different stories, reaching the end with only one within that large batch. I think I was lucky to have a bunch of elements that created a perfect environment for me to write my book. Being a senior in high school, I had far less of a load and the mythological disease known as "senioritis". Coupled with my love for writing fiction, and my desire to create a world of my own I could share, I was able to write my book.

That said, before I began, I abided by a set up rules I made to make up my fictional world. If there is no limit to what can happen, we can't relate to it as humans and thus we will get bored. Sticking with similar elements after creating a foundation is also important, like names for example. A name like Zephyr doesn't really go with Tom, unless of course they are from very different regions, cultures, or even worlds.

Also, I found it hard to write and focus on my book while maintain a strong social life. Luckily I was warned by other writers and from books I had read before on other authors, and I made sure to limit the amount of time I could work on my novel in a one day (2 hours). That way I wouldn't over work my mind and wouldn't stress out about writing more. I'm also a late night writer, so that kept me from staying up into the wee hours of the night.

Specifically story wise, besides making and keeping to a set of universal rules, I would suggest to always go with how you feel. Planning is good, but to much planning will ruin the emotion inside of a story. Writing in fiction is creating a universe, a sort of life. Life isn't completely planned out, at least in to us involved in the story, just like your readers will be.

The best advice I can give is if you wish to make a true piece of work, don't try to do so if you feel lacking in your passion for writing and or subject/genre. Thus, if you have the passion, even if you feel like giving up at some point, you will always go back to it.

Behind the Scenes with Khelsey Jackson

By Beth Ann Masarik

What is your name?

Khelsey Jackson

Tell us about yourself.

Hello I live in Las Vegas NV and I am a stay at home mother

What do you write?

I write a few different series but Kallos is my first

Why do you write it?

Because I love gods and goddesses

Do you have any past or current releases?

Acidalia, Sean & Ian, Aphrodite's Curse and Kallos

Tell us about them.

Acidalia- Acidalia knows her end is near. She is forced to say goodbye to her life as well as to her loves, Sean and Ian Hunter. Her final wish is they remain strong together while they wait for the new Aphrodite...

Sean & Ian- Sean and Ian just watched the girl they love die. They know that the new Aphrodite has been born, and they wonder would they will love her after losing the love of their lives. They funeral and wake is done to how she would have wanted. Acidalia has one more good bye for the boys, can they handle what she has to say?

Aphrodite's Curse- Aphrodite inspires love in both men and gods, but her heart always returns to Apollo and Ares. After a painful period on Earth, she reunites with them on Mount Olympus, only to be cursed by the god of darkness. Can her light and love prevail, or will the curse destroy her and the girls who follow her on Earth?

Kallos- Kallos is a shy sixteen year old girl unready to face the world, but when she meets Ian and Sean Hunter the world will open up for her. Secrets revealed are to much to bear and her past life as a goddess, unimaginable. A visit from the goddess Aphrodite, Kallos is told her soul mate must be found or her life will be forfeit. Kallos desperate to find her one true match has discovered she may have two possibilities. Kallos has a choice to make and her decisions may have life ending consequences.

Who is publishing them?

Crushing Hearts & Black Butterfly

Where is your favorite place to write?

I write in my living room

What do you listen to when you write?

I listen to either TV or music

How long have you been writing?

I've been writing for about three years

If you could be any mythological creature, what would it be and why?

I would saw werewolf! They are strong and beautiful

What is your guilty pleasure food?

Chocolate

When did you know you wanted to be a published author?

After I wrote Kallos I knew that I wanted other people to read it and enjoy what I created.

How many rejections did you receive before you were finally published?

I got about seven before SJ Davis told me she wanted me

How did you feel when you received that acceptance letter?

I cried and had to reread it many times before I knew it was true.

I hear that some authors, even if they have a publisher, get nervous after sending another book for a contract. Do you get nervous?

I do I always hope my publisher will love what I write.

What inspires you to write?

Other books and music

Where can we find you?

Facebook- https://www.facebook.com/pages/Khelsey-Jackson/340240632713069

Twitter- https://twitter.com/KhelseyrJackson

Email- khelseyrjackson@gmail.com

Website- http://khelseyrjackson.wix.com/kallosseries

Where can we buy your books?

Amazon http://www.amazon.com/Khelsey-Jackson/e/B009EX0F3Q/ref=ntt_dp_epwbk_0

Do you have any advice for aspiring writers?

Never give up on your dreams

Behind the Scenes with John Dahlgreen

By Beth Ann Masarik

What is your name?

John Dahlgren

Tell us about yourself.

I'm a psychologist by profession but I've been working as a marketing director at a pharmaceutical company in Switzerland since 1998. I'm also a visiting professor at the Royal University of Bhutan where I teach creative and fiction writing.

I was born in Stockholm, Sweden, and grew up close to the vast and untamed nature of Scandinavia and became influenced at an early age by the Nordic sagas, fairytales and mythologies. This environment somewhat triggered my imagination and inspired me, to later become a fiction/fantasy writer. I've studied creative and fiction writing at Oxford University. I think I'm mostly known for the fantasy series set in the magical world of Sagaria. I've also written satire and humor books and nonfiction articles for numerous scientific journals and a Swedish magazine.

During my school years, my favorite subjects were: music, literature and drama. At this stage I also became more seriously interested in writing and took part of every year's short-stories contest arranged by the school.

After finishing college, I put my writing interests aside and enrolled at a medical faculty. After four years of studying medicine, I discovered that I was more interested with the human mind rather than the pathological conditions of the body and switched to psychology.

Besides my regular work, I'm now engaged in several book projects, for both younger readers and adults. I also dabble as a script writer and composer.

In my free time, I enjoy playing the piano, reading, and travelling. I live in Neuchatel, Switzerland, with my wife and two children.

What do you write?

Mostly fantasy and fiction.

Why do you write it?

Well, there's a certain boundless feeling to write fantasy and be able to create new worlds with their inhabitants. Although one is not as restricted comparing to fiction, fantasy has to make sense as well. There are rules for fantasy as I learned from my teachers. But to answer your question more directly: I simply love to write. It's like being a director for a movie where you're free to create the settings, plots etc. However, I always listen to the characters and what they have to say. I've always tried to create three-dimensional characters, each with their unique personalities. I hope that in some cases, the reader can identify with some of them (perhaps not appearance-wise but more how they think and behave).

Do you have any past or current releases?

Yes, the current releases (for YA and adults) are the fantasy trilogySAGARIA and The Tides of Avarice – A Sagaria Legend.

For adults, Finnegan's Parish & Other Stories (which is a satire/comedy book which will be re-released later this spring). Another is The Vitamanwhich is more like a romantic comedy (also to be released this spring).

Tell us about them.

I will give a short synopsis on the fantasy novels (as they are the latest releases).

SAGARIA:

Life can be tough when you're a teenager, and for 14-year-old Sagandran Sacks, the going is definitely not easy. His parents are separated, his school days are full of bullying and hardship, and one of the nastiest of the bullies has purchased a summer home just up the hill from his grandfather Melwin, thus spoiling the summer vacation he looked forward to all year. But, not all is lost; visiting Melwin has lost none of its charm. However, when his grandfather (known to telling tall tales) entrusts him with a secret, young Sagandran Sacks dismisses his fanciful stories of Sagaria. Then Grandpa Melwin is kidnapped in the night, and Sagandran, in his effort to rescue him, finds himself transported via a portal in an abandoned forest well to the magical realm of Sagaria and an into an adventure he never could have imagined.

Upon arrival in this beautiful new world, Sagandran begins searching for his grandfather, never suspecting his search will lead to an evil despot, Arkanamon, who is rallying the forces of the Shadow World to conquer Sagaria—and eventually, Earth!

Ill-equipped to play the hero, Sagandran assembles an unlikely group of companions to help him, including Sir Tombin Quackford, a frog whose kiss to return him into a handsome prince was interrupted midway, leaving him a man-sized frog; Perima, a tomboy princess on the run from her royal father's oppressive regime; Samzing, a powerful but eccentric and scatterbrained wizard; and Flip, perhaps the fiercest warrior and adventurer in the land, despite being a six inch-tall rodent.

Together these improbable companions must face rabbles of vicious, troll-like worgs, the hazards of Samzing's spells, the attacks of the handsome but sadistic Shadow Knights, the lures of Sagaria's largest and most terminally addictive adventure theme park, the dangers of the devastated Shadow World, and much else before Sagandran can force a final confrontation with Arkanamon in the mighty necromancer's own Palace of Shadows . . .

THE TIDES OF AVARICE:

Sylvester Lemmington is living a quiet life in Foxglove as Junior Archivist and Translator of Ancient Tongues. He works at transcribing the scrolls that detail the Great Exoduses of the lemmings over the "Mighty Enormous Cliff to the Land of Destiny Across the Great Wet Without End," in one of which his father took part long ago, never to return. He considers himself too bookish and timid to ever win the heart of Viola, his best friend and true love, and tries to resign himself to her marriage to the odious Mayor Hairbell. But everything in his small world begins to change one night when he rescues a stranger from drowning. The wounded ferret tells him of the lands across the sea from which he came, destroying Sylvester's perception of the world taught to him by his religion. It also leads him to question all his beliefs despite warnings that speaking his questions aloud could land him a place in the next Great Exodus. The stranger, known as Keelhaul Levantes, also gives him a crumpled piece of parchment sought after by the dangerous man who gave Levantes his fatal wound. A few days later, a strange gray fox arrives in Foxglove asking about Levantes, and soon Captain Terrigan Rustbane and his band of pirates are wreaking havoc in search of the parchment, which contains the final piece of a map which will lead to the treasure of the Zindars. When Terrigan learns he has the map, Sylvester, along with Viola and her mother, is kidnapped by the pirates and forced into a perilous journey in search of the treasure. The

voyage aboard the pirate ship Shadeblaze with the foul and dangerous crew of rats, badgers, raccoons, and other animals plunges the lemmings into a treacherous existence where life and death hang on the whim of the heartless, bloodthirsty captain. They focus on surviving the ordeal with their skins intact, searching desperately for any opportunity to escape. As they make it through jungles teeming with deadly creatures, an attack upon the Shadeblaze by the Queen of Spectram's navy, a mutiny against Rustbane, and an island inhabited by cannibals, Sylvester finds untapped courage and resourcefulness that win him the respect and love of the feisty Viola. His journey shatters his religious beliefs completely as he learns some terrible truths about the leaders of Foxglove and the purpose behind the doctrines taught to the citizens. But will his newfound strength be enough to free the people of Foxglove from tyranny? The treasure of the Zindars that Rustbane seeks has the potential to destroy the world or save it, depending on what is in the heart of its discoverer. On their journey to find the treasure, the battle of Sylvester's goodness and integrity against Rustbane's cruel cleverness will have consequences for all of Sagaria.

Who is publishing them?

EDM BOOKS (Editions Didier Millet).

Where is your favorite place to write?

Usually at home (during the wee small hours of the morning when the family is asleep).

What do you listen to when you write?

Soundtracks from adventure movies. I've always found that it helps creating the mood for specific scenes. In a way the book plays out like a motion picture in my head. I try to make the reader feel as they are part of the book and can (hopefully) share the feeling with the characters.

How long have you been writing?

About twenty years.

If you could be any mythological creature, what would it be and why?

Hm, a very interesting question. I think I'll stick with the Scandinavian mythology here. I guess perhaps an Elf. According to Anglo-Saxon lore there are two types of Elves, the light Elves (Liosalfar) and dark Elves (Svartalfar). In Germanic myth there are forest Elves called Schrat and the forest Elves in Sweden are called Elvor. They were believed to be able to heal diseases, perform magic, being very handsome (well, that's not the main reason) and living for thousands of years and being virtually immune to any diseases. That's not so bad. I would probably have a plastic surgeon making my ears less pointy-like though.

What is your guilty pleasure food?

As, I live in Switzerland, cheese fondue is one of my favorites. I mean it's mainly melted cheese after all mixed with white wine and some garlic and herbs with bread. Not so healthy to eat regularly but I do tend to indulge whenever the occasion arises (two or three times per year). When I go to the Italian part, it's mostly pizza or lasagna. It's hard to resist.

When did you know you wanted to be a published author?

Oh, since I was in high school.

How many rejections did you receive before you were finally published?

About three or four.

How did you feel when you received that acceptance letter?

One of the happiest days of my life. It's hard to describe the feeling when you know that people will actually read one's books. It also makes you more humble and grounded in the sense that you feel a certain responsibility to the readers (I'm not talking dead lines from the publishers which can indeed be a bit of a pressure). But rather taking the writing process very seriously. Once you have been published you get more focused (at least for me). Of course you feel the jubilation at the same time because of the recognition.

I hear that some authors, even if they have a publisher, get nervous after sending another book for a contract. Do you get nervous?

Perhaps not nervous, but certainly very anxious to hear the responses. As most publishers do not accepr simultaneous submissions, it usually take them 3 months to respond (for a writer, those months are very, very long).

What inspires you to write?

Everything I experience in my daily life. I got the inspiration for the trilogySagaria many years ago (pre-Harry Potter) when I was in Sweden. I was out walking in the ancient woods with my dog when I saw an abandoned forest well. Since I was reading a lot of fantasy at the time, I simply couldn't resist fantasizing about a gate or a portal leading to a parallel world or fantasy realm from that well. On the way back, the basis for the story was shaping up in my head, and when I saw a frog and later on a cute squirrel chewing on an acorn, little Flip and Sir Tombin Quackford were born.

As for The Tides of Avarice, I've always been a pirate fan ever since reading Treasure Island. Pirates are fascinating and carry with them the same everlasting popularity like westerns and science fiction. I think it has to do with the freedom of simply weighing the anchor and setting sail toward any place you want with unexpected adventures, perilous quests and romances waiting.

Where can we find you?

On my website: www.tidesofavarice.com or www.sagaria.info or www.johndahlgren.com

Where can we buy your books?

On Amazon, Barnes & Noble and most other online book stores as well as traditional book sellers.

Do you have any advice for aspiring writers?

Don't give up the day job! No, but seriously, if one really wants to be a writer then they should not let anything or anybody stop them (almost all authors have been rejected so that's not a unique experience and don't let it get to you). If you really love to do something you'll always find the time but you have to be persistent and never take any negative response personally or feel sad in anyway. The regular jobs we do, we need it to pay the mortgage, food etc. First make sure that you can make a living on your writing before switching over to it completely. As a psychologist I dealt with the subconscious and dreams. I'm in the marketing division of the pharmaceutical company, so there's a lot of fantasizing going on there as well (believe it or not). Well, perhaps not pirates and wizards but...

Poetry Palooza

Bipolar

By Terra Kelly

There are times when I'm inconsolable

When the world around me becomes too much

And my demons come out to feast on me again

There are times when I'm hopeless

When I'm too lost to return home

And I don't need your comforting touch

I just need to be left alone to sit quietly in the dark.

Don't offer me a friendly hand,

Nor a tender embrace of love,

Just let me surround myself with shadows,

And let my troubles eat me whole.

Don't try to save when I can't be saved,

And keep your tender words for another day,

A day when the tides of my heart have changed,

And my soul flows the other way.

But until that time remember that I love you,

Ad that you're still the keeper of my heart,

But for the moment love is not my only friend,

And you tender touch and sweetest smile,

Are like poison to my aching soul.

So let me be.

Let me sit alone in the dark,

Let me find comfort in forgotten lusts,

Let me bandage my heart with solitude,

And dry my tears with time.

I know that you understand,

And I pray that you'll return

Because I love when emerge from these shadows,

And once again cherish the smile glistening

Across your sweet, tender face

Infinity

By Gina McKnight

off the bearing rein

my feet pivot to unseen things

without definition, no explanation

of why I think of you

please, redeem what is yours

my inattentive walk, fainéant stride

consumed in fervent love

promenades to your compass, swirls

with expectations

please, hem me in your cloak

flying change of leads

where circles become squares

serpentines to nowhere

as I drift in thoughts

of you; feather me in your beret

I must not think of you; irrevocable thoughts

spewing shards of blue, mimic

eyes I can't see; you're an

unbearable temptation

please, oblige me infinity

An Angel Buys a Car

Cassandra Serafin Chronicles #7

By Erin Danzer

It had been two weeks since the meeting with Michael and receiving my new class assignments. Despite my mom's threat that someone would be with me 24/7 only _if_ something more happened with Aziel, I still felt heavily guarded. Sparky/Zadkiel teleported to the Academy with me and Merry always met us upon arrival. Since Merry and I had three out of four classes together, she was always with me, taking her job as my guardian angel twice as serious now that word was out that I needed more protection. I loved Merry to death (and beyond), but all I really wanted was five minutes to myself.

"What are you doing down here? Class starts in like five minutes," Merry suddenly asked. My eyes guiltily flicked to the section of wall I knew concealed the door to the dungeon where Dark Angels were kept for rehabilitation. My cheeks burned as she also looked at the wall and shook her head.

"Don't even think about it," she warned, grabbing my arm to lead me away from temptation.

"Already thought about it," I mumbled. Merry sighed and stopped walking, turning to face me with her hand still gripping my arm.

"Why can't you just listen to us and stay away from him?" she snapped at me. "Geez, all of us try to protect you and yet you ignore all our warnings. He's no good, Cassie; he'll never get out of Hell."

Anger flared up with me and I glared at her, yanking my arm from her grip. "You don't know that. He's not like his father, Merry. I've already seen him change!"

My voice rose until I was shouting. A few angels glanced our way, but most of them ignored us as they hurried to their next class, something Merry and I should have been doing instead of arguing. I was just so tired of having everyone tell me Aziel was bad news when I had yet to see proof of that.

"Whatever. Whether you've seen him change or not, it doesn't matter; he isn't even here."

I started at her words. "What do you mean, he's not here? Where is he? Did Michael send him back to his father?" Horrific images of Aziel being tortured flitted through my mind, making me shudder. Being with Raum was the last place Aziel should be. Merry continued to frown and shook her head at me.

"How should I know?" she sneered. "Apparently he hasn't been around since that meeting with Michael a couple weeks ago. So why don't you tell me what happened? Why all the extra security for you? Why the worry that a certain Dark Angel might be reunited with daddy?"

"Because being with Raum is the last place he would be safe. Raum would just torture him until he died." I clamped my mouth shut before anything more could come out. Why had I said that? Merry didn't need to know that. I realized all my worry about Aziel had made me clumsy. A grimace twisted my lips as I looked up at her. She looked at me expectantly, one hand fisted on her hip, her toes practically tapping beneath her light blue robe. I looked down at my white robe, playing with the gold cord around my waist, the cord that had identified me as coming from an Archangel family the first time Aziel and I had met. I sighed at the memory.

"And?" Merry demanded, still waiting impatiently for me to divulge more secrets. I rolled my eyes. There was nothing more to tell.

"And nothing. You don't need to know anything else. You just need to do your job."

I lifted my head and stomped off towards the stairs, hoping I wouldn't be late for class. My advanced Angel Glow lessons were a pain—literally. Every night after the class, in which I learned offensive and defensive ways to use my glow, I came home sore from head to toe and in desperate need of a shower. I knew today would be no different.

Our trainer's name was Timothy and he reminded me a little of an overgrown leprechaun. At just more than six feet tall and with bright red hair and green eyes, even his pristine white robe and golden halo couldn't hide his Irish heritage. Merry entered the room as I took my seat and I turned my back towards her. I wasn't ready to forgive her yet.

"All right, now that everyone's here—Cassandra and Meredith, thank you for joining us today—I'd like to continue working on _Ignem Globus_ ," Timothy said. My cheeks burned when he called out me and Merry. How embarrassing! As if I needed to be further embarrassed; I was already embarrassed enough being stuck into a class of advanced students when I'd barely been learning about my abilities for a month. Most of the angels in this class had been at it for at least a year.

"So if everyone will find a partner, we can begin," he added. Chairs scraped on the marble floor and murmurs rang out as everyone scrambled to find a partner to work with. I ended up with Merry and silently cursed the rest of my classmates for this fate. She would incinerate me with her first fire ball.

"Are you done being mad at me yet?" she murmured as we moved away from the rest of the class.

"Are you going to go easy on me if I say I am?" I replied quietly. She shook her head but couldn't hide the smile that lifted the corners of her mouth. Knowing everything would be okay between us, I nodded and walked away until I was ten feet in front of her. I turned just as she shot the first ball of fire in my direction. I dodged the ball, calling it into myself as I rolled away. My body absorbed the ball of fiery energy and I immediately shot one of my own at my best friend. Merry easily caught it. We continued to volley them between us until Timothy told us it was time to leave. I managed to get away with only a few singe marks on my robe and only a tiny smell of burnt hair so I felt pretty good.

"You know I'm only looking out for you, right?" Merry asked before I teleported home. I nodded, feeling better after having spent two hours throwing fire balls at her. Talk about getting out some aggression! A grin stole over my face and she grinned in response.

"Yes, I know; I just wish everyone would stop worrying so much. I'm a big girl; I can handle myself pretty well. I know how to trust my instincts," I told her.

"Yeah, but your instincts might be wrong where a certain someone is concerned. You haven't been in this world as long as the rest of us; we might just know what we're talking about."

"Or you could be dead wrong." My smile turned into a frown as I glared at her, upset once again. Why wouldn't she just let this go?

"Just as long as you aren't dead." She kissed my cheek and sent me home before I could argue further. Still fuming, I stumbled as I appeared in the alley just down the street from Cool Creamz, where I worked three or four days a week serving people ice cream. I wondered what I was doing here until I heard a car horn honk and looked up to see my parents' minivan waiting at the entrance of the alley. I forced a smile as I walked down and climbed into the back seat.

"Why am I getting picked up here?" I asked my mom as I buckled in. "Are we going straight to the car lot?"

I'd finally saved up enough money to buy half a used car; that was the deal my parents had made with me on my birthday last year. I was excited to finally buy the dark purple Honda Civic that had caught my eye my first time on the lot at the beginning of summer. I'd fallen in love with the wing on the back, the color and the moon roof. It was a few years old, but had low miles and I knew I'd take good care of it. Lenny, the lot owner, had promised to keep it until the end of summer.

My mom shook her head. "We have to stop at home for a moment. You could have teleported there, but Colin's been hanging out all day waiting to see you," she told me. I grinned at the mention of my boyfriend. I couldn't wait to see him, too. He'd been the perfect boyfriend since our first date two weeks ago, always bringing me cute little gifts or notes he'd write during the day whenever something happened he wanted to tell me about. With all the time I'd been spending at work and the Academy, I was surprised we got to spend any time together at all, but somehow we managed.

We got home five minutes later. I rushed inside and to the living room, where I knew he had to be playing video games with Callan. My little brother adored Colin, claiming he wanted to be just like my boyfriend when he grew up. The fact that Colin tolerated and even enjoyed spending time with my little brother was just one more reason I liked him so much. Even Amelia, as annoying as she could be, softened around him (though I thought that might be because she had a crush on him).

Colin looked up from the game when I entered the room, as though he sensed I was there. We shared a smile until my brother whooped and yelled about winning the racing game they were playing. Colin laughed as Callan bragged about it to him and then thanked me for distracting his opponent. I laughed with him and told Callan anytime as Colin got up from the couch to properly greet me. His arms wound around my waist and mine went around his neck, automatically, like this was where I was meant to be. I grinned and laughed as he leaned down to kiss me softly on the lips.

"Hi," he said against my lips.

"Hi," I replied and kissed him again.

"All right, you two, knock it off. Cassandra, we need to leave if we're going to get there before Lenny closes up," my mom spoke up. I reached for Colin's hand as I broke the kiss, entwining our fingers. He squeezed my hand.

"So I hear you're buying a car today," he commented. I giggled.

"Yep. Can you handle that; your girlfriend getting her license and a car first?"

He chuckled. "I think I can handle it."

"Come on, lovebirds, break it up," my dad teased as he came into the room. I giggled again.

"Have fun car shopping," he added. Colin looked at me, a curious expression on his face.

"If you wanted to go along, Mr. Serafin, I can stay here with Callan and Amelia," Colin offered. I beamed at him. He really was the perfect boyfriend.

"Are you sure they won't be too much trouble?" my dad asked. Colin shook his head.

"No, sir. Cal and I can play video games and I can make them dinner if you're gone too late. I know how Lenny can talk sometimes and I imagine he'll have a lot to say about the car Cassie's had her eye on all summer."

My mom and dad exchanged a look and my mom nodded. Dad grinned at Colin.

"Thank you, Colin; I appreciate that," Dad told him. Colin nodded and said it wasn't any problem. I quickly kissed him one more time, thanked him again and then followed my parents out to their van.

It took five minutes to get to Lenny's Car Lot. I bounced in my seat the entire short ride. I couldn't believe I was buying my car today! Excitement made me glow and I quickly extinguished it, muttering an apology to my dad, who was driving and didn't need the distraction.

Lenny came out to greet us as soon as we pulled into a spot in front of the office. He stood at six-two, had arms as thick as tree trunks, dark chocolate skin, and dreads down to the middle of his back. He wore a thick gold chain around his neck, had a tattoo of a dagger on his left forearm, and had a gold tooth. Anyone who saw him on the street would think he was bad news, but Lenny was actually a great guy—as long as you didn't try to swindle him out of one of his cars. He got nasty if he got cheated.

"Ahh, it's the angelic choir come for her car," he exclaimed when he saw us. I giggled as I grinned at him, noticing he'd put orange, red, and yellow beads at the ends of his dreads. They clacked together as he moved. I loved Lenny's name for my family. He seemed to have nicknames for almost everyone who came to see him.

"Hey, Lenny, good to see you," my dad said as they shook hands.

"Let's go see the purple beauty," Lenny suggested a moment later, still widely grinning. He led the way to the corner of the lot where he kept all cars promised to buyers. Mine sat front and center, as if he'd known I was coming today to buy it. The metallic purple paint seemed to sparkle in the late afternoon sunlight. I ran a hand over the top, along the side, and over the wing on the back. Within the hour, I'd be driving it off the lot. Giddiness swelled up in me at the thought.

"Would you like to take her for a spin before we get to the paper work?" Lenny asked me. I bit my tongue to keep from agreeing.

"I don't think that's necessary. Really, Lenny, we don't want to keep you any longer than necessary," my dad spoke up. Lenny nodded.

"All right then. Let's go make this car officially yours."

Lenny grinned and winked at me before leading us inside to his office. It was already four-thirty, meaning we had half an hour until Lenny was supposed to close. Unfortunately, time meant nothing to the salesman.

An hour later, we were still filling out paper work. Lenny kept stopping to reminisce about when his youngest daughter got her first car, when he got his first car, and then to ask my parents about their first cars. Then he went on about how great the car was that I'd chosen. After that, he went on yet another tangent that had nothing to do with buying a car. My parents were too polite to tell him to shut up, but I was tempted. Frustrated, I sent a text to Colin.

Ugh! I hate paperwork!

His reply was immediate.

Kids are great! Everything is fine!

An uneasy feeling settled in the pit of my stomach as I stared at those two sentences. He'd said nothing about Lenny's gibber-jabber, not even an 'I told you so'. I frowned as the feeling in my stomach intensified and my heart rate picked up. What was going on?

"Are you all right?" my mom whispered from my right. I showed her the two text messages. She also frowned, making me think this really wasn't right.

"Rafe, I think we should go," she told my dad, cutting off Lenny as he regaled my dad with yet another mindless story. Really, how many pointless stories could one person tell? My dad looked at my mom, who motioned for me to show him the messages. I did. He also frowned.

"Lenny, we need to wrap this up," he told the salesman.

"Yes, sir. Just need a couple more signatures and the car is yours," Lenny replied. I shifted in my seat as my parents signed what needed it.

Suddenly, what felt like an earthquake rocked the inside of my body. I doubled over, clutching my stomach and gasping. Searing pain shot from the crown of my head to the tips of my toes. A strangled whimper escaped through my pursed lips. On either side of me, my parents jumped to their feet, obviously feeling the same alert just not as strongly as me.

"We need to go," they declared simultaneously.

"Obviously. Get out of here. Your car will be waiting when you get back," Lenny told them. They hurriedly thanked him, grabbed my arms, and teleported us out of there. I barely had time to think about why they'd do such a thing in front of a human before we landed in our living room. I stumbled forward, tripped over a video game controller, and caught myself on the back of the overturned couch.

"Cassie!" Colin yelled. My head snapped up and my eyes widened at what I saw. Our house was completely trashed. The bookshelves and all of the furniture had been overturned. Books and pillows, their stuffing falling out, were scattered across the room.

But that's not what caught my attention the most.

My gaze zeroed in on the nine-foot tall red and black demon that held my boyfriend in a chokehold against the wall across from me. Colin choked and scrabbled against the beast's hand around his throat, but it was no use. The demon wasn't letting go. The pain shooting through me vanished and I jumped to my feet, readying my glow to attack the demon.

"Malaphar," my dad sneered, his hands already glowing. The demon laughed, the booming sound rattling the windows. My dad raised his hands to attack. I did the same.

"Rafael, we meet again," it said to him. My dad shot off two fiery glow balls. The demon disappeared just before it was hit, taking Colin with it. I stared in horror at the now burned wall where Colin had just been.

"NO!" I screamed. Tears welled in my eyes. I blinked them away as I tried to picture Hell—the real place, not the dungeon at the school. Panic warred with anger and fear within me. I had no idea where I was going, but I had to save Colin!

"Cassandra, no!" my mom commanded as I closed my eyes. She grabbed my arm to keep me from teleporting. "You can't go there, Cassandra. You will die."

"I can't let that thing take Colin," I argued. Tears slipped down my cheeks as I glared at my mom. She loosened her grip on my arm as she gave me a sympathetic look, making me think she knew exactly how I felt at that moment.

"You need to leave this to the trained angels," was all she said before she let go of my arm. I nodded, swallowing down my anger and terror. My stomach still quivered and my hands shook. I looked around at the destruction that used to be our living room. What had happened here? And then it hit me. Where were Zadkiel, Amelia and Callan? As soon as I thought about them, they appeared in the middle of the chaos.

"I'm sorry I couldn't do more," Zadkiel, now as Sparky the dog, said as soon as they landed, hanging his head. Callan cried out for Mom and ran to her. Amelia looked dazed, her blue eyes wide, tears drying on her cheeks. I went over to her and wrapped my arm around her shoulders. She leaned against me without protest, and then she started crying again. I wrapped my other arm around her, holding her close to me as tears continued to fall down my cheeks as well.

"It was so scary," Mia sobbed into my shoulder. I smoothed her hair down her back.

"I know. I'm sorry we weren't here," I said to her.

"Zadkiel, what happened?" my dad demanded.

"The boys were playing a game and Colin had just paused it to make the kids dinner when Malaphar suddenly appeared in the middle of the room. I have no idea how he got passed your wards. It destroyed everything as it chased the kids around the room. I grabbed them as quickly as I could, but then it grabbed Colin and there was nothing more I could do. I had to protect Amelia and Callan," Zadkiel explained and turned his dark brown gaze towards me. "I'm very sorry, Cassandra. I will go to Michael at once, alert the Angelic Council to what has happened."

"Why would they do this? Why take Colin?" I wondered aloud.

"Because they know how much he means to you, so they will take something you love to draw you out to them," my mom gently explained. Anger made my blood boil in my veins. How dare any demons do this to me! I was going to kill them all! Glow lit up my hands without forethought. I curled my hands into fists, ready to fight. My mom put her hands over mine and looked into my eyes. My glow disappeared back into myself, but my anger remained hot within me.

"Cassandra, I'm sorry this has happened. I assure you we will do everything we can to get Colin back from the demons. But you must promise me you won't try to rescue him yourself. That demon, Malaphar, is Raum's First Lieutenant. You can't go after him."

Images suddenly flashed before my eyes. I stumbled, blinded by what I was seeing as my mind was transported to another time and place. My mom caught me before I could fall and held my arms, keeping me upright as she stared at me with mixed horror and awe.

_I'm sitting on a checkered blanket in a forest clearing. The skirt of my light blue dress is fanned out over my legs, which are curled up under me. Aziel sits next to me, his black robe rippling in the light breeze. We laugh as he throws grapes at my open mouth. I'm so happy_.

The image changed.

_My mom holds my arms as she is holding them now. She shakes me, yelling at me not to go. But I have to see Aziel. His father knows about us. Raum will kill him if I don't try to help him. As I argue, she creates an invisible box around me, trapping me. I pound against it until my fists are bruised. She doesn't understand our love. I can't let him die. I can't live without him_.

A final image followed.

_I'm standing in the clearing again, without Aziel this time. I'm hoping he will meet me. I sent him a message, but of course I have no way of knowing if he received it or will respond. I wring my hands as I pace around the small circle. A twig snaps behind me. I spin around, my golden hair flying out around my shoulders. I have a moment to recognize Raum before everything goes black_.

Tears streamed down my face as the visions faded from my mind. My mom pulled me tight against her, her tears falling into my hair. I remembered my conversation with Zadkiel after we saw Michael two weeks ago. We didn't believe in reincarnation. When we died, we went to Heaven. So why did I just have visions of being another of my mom's children, the daughter Aziel had loved? The human girl he spent two hundred years chained to a wall for. My heart clenched at the memory of him telling me that, the anguish on his face. I couldn't help but wonder if he still loved her after all this time. Was this why the kiss we'd shared had been so magical? Was I really Elysia?

I shook as my mind spun with questions I couldn't answer. My mom continued to cry and hold me, whispering something I couldn't understand. But then I could. It was a name.

_Elysia_.

"Mom." I lifted my head and pushed her away, frowning. She wouldn't stop saying that name. Her face was a mask of pain and confusion, much like I imagined mine to look like.

"Mom," I said again, more forcefully this time. "Mom, we don't believe in that kind of thing. How is it possible?"

"What? How is what possible?" my dad spoke up, coming to stand closer to us.

"Elysia has been returned to us in Cassandra," my mom told him. A huge grin suddenly split her face. "She has been returned to us. It's a miracle, a gift from the Almighty Himself. He has granted us another chance to save her."

My dad put his arm around her shoulders, tears glistening in his eyes. "Danielle, that's impossible. You know we don't believe in that kind of thing," he told her gently. She shook her head, her grin falling from her face as she glared at him.

"No. You don't know like I do. You didn't see what I just saw. They were _her_ memories, Rafe. Elysia's spirit resides within Cassandra. How else would she have Elysia's memories?"

My dad opened his mouth to argue but then closed it, frowning still. I looked between the two of them, also wondering how any of this was possible. If reincarnation wasn't a possibility, then how did I have those memories? Why did Aziel seem so familiar to me? Why was he so irresistible?

I fisted my hands and turned away from my parents. I couldn't deal with this right now. Colin was missing, taken by Raum's First Lieutenant. Colin had to be my main priority—my _only_ priority. I couldn't think about reincarnation and a Dark Angel who obviously wanted nothing to do with me.

"You know what, I don't care. Colin is out there somewhere— _in Hell_. I can't deal with reincarnation and whatever it has to do with Aziel and Raum right now. I just want to find Colin and bring him home," I declared. My mom looked at me as if I was Michael himself, but my dad simply nodded. He looked about to say something, but Sparky appeared again right then.

"I'm sorry for the delay. Michael has called an Archangel Council meeting at once to deal with this situation. He's asked you both be present," Sparky told my parents.

"What about me?" I blurted out, anger igniting again. Sparky shook his head.

"I'm sorry, Cassandra, Michael said trained angels only," he told me sadly.

"Cassandra, let us handle this. Stay here with your brother and sister," my dad told me. I glowered at him, already debating ways I could find my way to Hell to save Colin if they didn't do something soon.

"Fine," I grumbled and crossed my arms. "But you better do something soon. Who knows what they're going to do to Colin."

"Of course. As soon as we can," my dad agreed and reached for my mom's hand. I prayed he was right as I watched them disappear with Sparky. I didn't know what I would do if something happened to Colin because nobody tried to rescue him in time.

**Find out what happens next in** _An Angel Goes Back to Hell_ **, Cassandra Serafin Chronicles #8, coming April 2, 2013, at http://erindanzer.com/blog**

Starlington

By Beth Ann Masarik

NB: Starlington is a YA/ fantasy book about elves, fairies, wizards and humans. It focuses on two main characters named Clarissa and Kai. Each issue there will be a new chapter.
Chapter One

Clarissa

"I think we should break up," Eric Bronstein, a seemingly handsome nineteen year old college freshman said. He'd been leaning against the wall outside of a young girl's dorm room. His hazel eyes quickly scanned the immediate area for a quick escape, and then locked with a pair of blue eyes that stood in front of him.

Those blue eyes belonged to a female the same age as he. She was tall, tan and pretty. She wrapped her index finger around a loose strand of her curly, blond hair and fought back tears as she listened to Eric's deep, strained voice.

"What do you mean break up? Eric, I thought you loved me?" the pretty young blond girl squeaked as she fought back tears.

His serious posture faltered as he noticed the wetness of tears forming in her eyes. So much for being "Mr. Tough Guy." "I do...I mean, I did. Look, Clarissa, it isn't you, okay?" he muttered, knowing perfectly well that he didn't make sense.

Clarissa's lips quivered as a sob escaped her throat. "What-what do you mean it isn't me? Eric, that's the worst line in the history of break up," she shrieked.

"I know," he murmured quietly while averting his gaze. "It's just, we're in college now...there's a whole world full of opportunities out there waiting for us. I don't want either of us to hold each other back."

"But...I came to Starlington University specifically to be with you...Eric...Y-O-U," she said spelling out the word you. "You wouldn't be holding me back," she protested as she played with the collar of his black polo shirt.

"I just can't see you anymore, Clarissa. Please try to understand," he said and kissed her cheek. "I hope we can still be friends," he added and walked off without giving her a chance to protest or looking back.

"But...but Eric," Clarissa called after him as sobs escaped her. When he didn't look back, however, her lips quivered and she opened the door to her dorm room and slammed it shut behind her.

*~*~*

"Well that wasn't very nice of him," a girl with chin-length brown hair and hazel eyes said. She'd been flipping through the pages of a fashion catalog while laying upside down on her bed in their dorm room.

"No shit Sherlock," Clarissa snapped as she slammed the door behind her and slumped down on her own bed. When she realized how nasty she'd been, Clarissa looked up with her big, tear-filled blue eyes at Danielle and frowned apologetically. "I'm sorry, D, that wasn't very nice of me. It's just...I thought things were going really well with me and Eric," she said and sniffed. "I guess I was wrong."

Danielle tossed her magazine on the floor and sauntered over towards her roommate and best friend. They'd only known each other a few days, but they'd quickly become besties, and told each other everything.

"Hey, it's his loss girl," Danielle said and blew a bubble with her gum and popped it. "Besides, you could so much better. As that jerk said, there are plenty of opportunities here on campus. You'll find a new boyfriend in no time," she said with a reassuring smile.

"But, I don't want a new boyfriend...I want Eric," she sobbed.

"You know what'll make you feel better?" Danielle asked while standing up and pulled Clarissa to her feet.

"What?" Clarissa asked and sniffed.

"Rocky road ice cream and pretzels and a girls' night," she said and offered Clarissa her arm.

"That does sound good," she replied and linked her arm with Danielle's. "Let's go to the Student Union and get some."

"Lead the way," Danielle said with a huge grin and the two of them marched down towards the Student Union which is where the cafeteria was.

*~*~*

It was dinner time and the cafeteria was packed with students. Danielle and Clarissa weaved their way through the pool of students and found themselves standing on the line to one of the fast food places that sold pizza and ice cream. Clarissa had just moved up in line, when she felt a tap on her shoulder. Wondering who it could possibly be, she turned around and narrowed her eyes when she saw that it was her brother, James.

"What do you want?" Clarissa asked as she folded her arms across her chest defensively. Her brother was the last person she wanted to deal with right now.

"Whoa easy sis," James, a tall and brooding twenty-one year old male said. "What's eating you?" he asked throwing his hands up defensively.

"Nothing," she lied.

James folded his arms across his chest and arched an eyebrow in disbelief. "You're a terrible liar, Clarissa. Now, tell me what's wrong," he said now noticing her tear-stained cheeks.

Before she could speak, they all looked up at the sound of giggling and laughter from a few feet away. Sure enough the laughter was coming from Eric who was currently standing with a group of people a few tables away. Upon a closer look, Clarissa and James noticed that there was another blond girl hanging all over his shoulder. As soon as Eric looked their way, Clarissa's lips quivered and she turned her head and buried it into her brother's shoulder.

"Eric broke up with me," Clarissa said sobbing.

"That son of a bitch," James sneered and patted his sister consolingly. "I'll kill him for hurting you."

"Who are you threatening to kill?" a deep, silky voice asked from behind James.

Clarissa peered up from her brother's shoulder to find another man her brother's age, only he wasn't as tall. He had short, brown hair and his eyes were a dark forest green. His eyes seemed to sparkle when their eyes met, and he offered Clarissa a tentative smile.

"My sister's now ex-boyfriend," James said, his voice protective. "I never did like that asshole."

"Oh please, James, you guys were practically best friends," Clarissa said and rolled her eyes.

"I was only nice to him because you liked him, Clare-bear," James explained. "Does he know that the only reason why you came here was to be with him?"

"I tried to tell him, but he didn't seem to care," Clarissa said as tears threatened to escape her eyes again. "I'm sorry, I didn't catch your name," she said wanting to desperately change the subject.

"I'm Kai Roscoe, you're brother's roommate," he said and extended his hand politely for a handshake.

"I'm Clarissa," she said and shook his hand nervously. "It's nice to meet you."

"Do you girls want to join us?" James asked as they ordered their food and moved down the line.

"But, you guys are juniors," Clarissa pointed out as they made their way over to an empty table.

"So? Is there a rule saying you can't sit with an upperclassmen? Besides, it'll drive Eric nuts," James insisted.

"I'm game," Danielle said and sat down on the other side of James. "I'm all for making Eric jealous," she said grinning. "I'm Danielle, Clarissa's roommate by the way," she said to James and Kai.

"Nice to meet you," Kai said and smiled kindly at her and refocused his attention back on Clarissa. "So, you're James' sister, huh? I guess that means I should be nice to you?" he asked half joking.

"Nah, bro, you can be as much of a prick to Clare-bear as you want, just don't go overboard though," James said while smirking.

"Clare-bear, really?" Kai asked with a raised eyebrow.

James shrugged. "Like you've got something better to call her?" he asked challengingly.

"Not yet, but I certainly don't plan on calling her Clare-bear," Kai said while shaking his head.

"Why not? I think it's a cute nickname," Danielle said while giggling.

"Shut up," Clarissa said and glared at her roommate. "I hate when he calls me that," she said turning her attention back to Kai.

"I could tell," he said and grinned. "I promise not to call you Clare-bear," Kai vowed and patted her shoulder.

Silence washed over them and the air around them was soon filled with the sound of forks clanging and scraping against plates while everyone ate their dinner. While Clarissa ate, however, she couldn't help but steal a glance or two at Eric and his new blond friend, and whenever she and Eric's eyes met, a pang of jealousy swelled inside her. Her cheeks blushed when Clarissa caught Kai looking at her, and she bit her lip embarrassed that she'd been caught spying on her ex-boyfriend in front of a really cute guy who happened to be her brother's roommate.

"I should go," Clarissa said as soon as she finished her last bite of rocky road ice cream. "I uh, have homework to do."

"It's only the second day of school, Clarissa," James reminded her.

Her cheeks only grew a deeper shade of red at his chastisement. She stood up, and when she stood, Kai got up with her and helped her gather her things together, understanding how awkward she was feeling.

"It was really nice meeting you, Kai," Clarissa said as she took her books from him. "Hopefully next time I see you, I won't be crying," she said and bit her lip nervously.

He smiled warmly and felt an overwhelming need to hug her and console her but refrained himself. He wasn't sure if he'd be stepping out of bounds or not, so he just stood there and stuck his hands in his pockets and shuffled his feet nervously.

"I hope so too, and next time I'll have a good nickname for you," he said and his smile widened so that his green eyes seemed to sparkle again in the light.

"I'll hold you to that, Kai. Well, see ya," Clarissa said and dragged Danielle off to their dorm room.

Terra Firma Reviews

By Terra Kelly

Title: Cover of Snow

Author: Jenny Milchman

I was lucky enough to read Cover of Snow by Jenny Milchman just before it was released to the general public. This is Jenny Milchman's first novel though she has had two short stories published. She is a dynamic writer, easily balancing heart ache with fast paced action to keep the reader entertained and eager for more. Once I downloaded this book to my kindle I was hooked and finished it within the day it was so good!

The story starts with the female protagonist, Nora Hamilton, waking up late in the Adirondack Mountains in New York. She is surprised when she realizes what time it is and that her husband hasn't woken her up yet. She pads downstairs to find the coffee pot still cold and begins to feel that something is wrong. As she searches for her husband the feeling grows. Entering the attic that they had just begun to renovate together she finds him, swinging from a rope. With a creak and a snap the body tumbles down and into her knocking her down, a physical manifestation of what has just happened to Nora's life.

Nora spends the next few hours in a blissful numb state but soon enough awareness comes back and with it comes the questions that will begin to haunt her. The Why of it all begins to torment her especially as the people around her either ignore it or tell her to move on from it. Everyone except her unconventional sister who challenges her to open her eyes and ask the difficult questions in an effort to heal. Those questions lead to an even bigger mystery as Nora strives to understand why her loving husband suddenly decided to take his own life.

Trapped in a small town in northern New York where no one seems to want her there let alone have her asking questions about Brendan's last days Nora becomes increasingly nervous about her own safety as her search takes a dangerous turn. Nora doesn't know who to trust when even the police seem involved and the few people who will speak with her either die or have mysterious fires begin soon after talking to her.

Jenny Milchman was able to balance the heartache and confusion that would come with losing someone to suicide with a murder mystery. It's tastefully done and so interesting! I was left guessing until the end as to who was really behind it all. And it actually leaves you wondering if you ever really know the people around us, even those we claim to love the most! The release date was January 13th, so look for it at your local bookstore!!! It is definitely worth it! Excellent read!

Lunar Reviews

By Beth Ann Masarik

Title: A Job From Hell

Series: Ancient Legends book #1

Author: Jayde Scott

Synopsis: In a world of love bonds, rituals, dark magic, ancient enemies and immortals, nothing is as it seems and no one can be trusted.

Seventeen-year-old Amber enters the paranormal world by chance when her brother, Dallas, sets her up with a summer job in Scotland. Dallas has spied something in the woods he thinks could make them rich beyond their wildest dreams. But instead of finding riches, Amber unknowingly enters a paranormal race—and promptly wins the first prize—a prize for which many would kill. Soon, she discovers her new boss, Aidan, didn't employ her for her astounding housekeeping skills and he isn't who he claims to be either.

As the dark forces slowly conspire against Amber, her naivety and love for Aidan catapults her into a calamitous series of otherworldly events. With every immortal creature hunting for her, whom can she trust with her life?

My Review:

4 out of 5 stars.

What stopped me from giving this book 5 stars, was the fact that I was able to put this book down for months at a time and not give it much thought. However, when I did pick it back up finally, I got sucked right back in. I loved Aidan and Amber's characters (the MC's.). It's an intricate and interesting read, and for someone looking to escape for a few hours, I'd highly recommend it.

Lunar Reviews

By Beth Ann Masarik

Title: The Book Of Spells (Private 0.5)

Author: Kate Brian

Synopsis: The year is 1915 when sixteen-year-old Eliza Williams arrives at the Billings School for Girls in Easton, Connecticut. Her parents expect her to learn the qualites of a graceful, dutiful wife. But Eliza and her housemates have a dangerous secret: They're witches. After finding a dusty, leather bound spell book, the Billings Girls form a secret coven. Bonded in sisterhood, they cast spells--cursing their headmistress with laryngitis, brewing potions to bolster their courage before dances, and conjuring beautiful dresses out of old rags. The girls taste freedom and power for the first time, but what starts out as innocent fun turns sinister when one of the spells has an unexpected-and deadly-consequence. Magic could bring Eliza everything she's ever wanted...but it could also destroy everything she holds dear.

My Review

3.5 stars out of 5

I picked up The Book of Spells because I was looking for a change of pace. It was set in the early 1900s, which intrigued me. What intrigued me more was that this book doesn't have vampires or werewolves...rather, it introduces witchcraft. It was nice to read something different. While the writing was smooth and enjoyable, I felt that the characters were a little flat. I also felt like that there was much more to the story that could have been told that the author put on the page. Now, granted, this is a prequel to the actual Private series, so this was to get our feet wet, and it sure did! This series is not high on my priority reading list, but I will probably pick up book one sometime in the future!

PURCHASE YOUR ADVERTISING SPACE TODAY!

Do you have a new book coming out and want us to advertise its release? Are you a publisher and want to advertise your company? Then look no further! Here at Literary Lunes, we now offer low-cost, wallet-friendly advertising! If you would like to advertise with us, please send an email with all pertenant information toadvertising@literarylunespublications.com

For 1/4 page ads:

$1.00 USD per month or $12 for the year (please keep in mind the magazine comes out bi-monthly. This will also go for advertisements on the website as well for the second month).

1/2 page ads:

$2.00 USD per month or $24 per year.

Full page ads:

$4 USD per month or $48.00 per year.

To purchase advertising space, please go to the advertising tab on our website at www.literarylunespublications.com

The Staff

Beth Ann Masarik, is the founder and chief editor of Literary Lunes. She created this magazine, because people are always coming to her for literary advice, and she wanted to be there for all aspiring writers. She is the author of her debut novel, The World Among Us, a young adult, urban fantasy novel. Her book will be released on August 19, 2011. In addition to running Literary Lunes, Beth also runs her blogs, Writer's Advocate, and Hallowed Writers. For more information about Beth, you can visit her full website at www.bethannmasarik.com

Ashley Laura is dedicated to giving writers a voice outside of their work. For Literary Lunes, she assists with the accepting of article submissions and the formatting of the magazine. Outside of Literary Lunes, she is also the Municipal Liaison for Memphis National Novel Writing Month (NANOWRIMO). You can follow her on Tumblr at sparrowluvr2.tumblr.com

Erin Danzer writes regularly for Literary Lunes, and is an Indie author. Like Beth and Cambria, she also writes for young adults. Erin not only contributes her own short stories, but sometimes she even contributes articles on how to write literature as well. You can follow her at www.erindanzer.com

You can like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter (if the Twitter link doesn't work, follow us @literarylunes)

Companies we tour with:

Affiliates

Literary Lunes would not be made possible without the extra support and efforts of the following people:

