

Copyright 2016 Kris Hack

Love and Angels

By Kris Hack

This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents are the product of the author's imagination and are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, business establishments, events, or locales is purely coincidental. All Rights Reserved.

This book may not be reproduced or distributed in any printed or electronic form without the prior written permission from the author. This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents are the product of the author's imagination and are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, business establishments, events, or locales is purely coincidental.

Cover Design by Regina Wamba of MaeIDesign.com

Editing by Tiff any Tillman of Beyond DEF

Formatted by Pro Author Swag

### Dedication

For anyone who has had their heart broken, don't give up hope, it will get better and you will find that happily ever after.

### Table of Contents

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Chapter 9

Chapter 10

Chapter 11

Chapter 12

Chapter 13

Chapter 14

Chapter 15

Chapter 16

Chapter 17

Chapter 18

Chapter 19

Chapter 20

Chapter 21

Chapter 22

Chapter 23

Glossary

Acknowledgments

Also by Kris Hack

About the Author

# Chapter 1

### Laney

I can hear the screams from next door. They must be fighting again. They're always fighting, every single one of them.

Sometimes, I can see the father hurting his wife or his kids through the shadows on the curtains. Mom tells me not to look, but I do it anyway when they get especially loud. The mother came to stay with us for a short time a while ago. She kept crying and hissing in pain, but she went back home after a few days.

My book falls to my lap at the sound of a gunshot, and I turn to watch the windows next door just as two more shots ring out. Someone screams, but the scream is cut short by a fourth shot. After one more, everything goes silent.

"Laney, dear," my mom says as she cracks open my bedroom door.

"Were those gunshots?" I question.

She looks to the floor before gesturing for me to come to her. "Come over here, honey, away from the window."

Lightning strikes the tree outside my window, disconnecting one of the larger branches on the tree. It falls to the ground and bounces a little once it lands. I walk over to my mom and she guides me downstairs, with her arm across my shoulder. She used to walk like this with me when I was much younger, but I would never tell her the gesture still comforts me now that I've reached my teen years.

"You want to watch a movie with me and your father?" she asks, and I know it is supposed to act as a distraction.

Lightning strikes again, and I jump. Mom rubs my shoulders then pats me on the back when we make it downstairs and into the living room. "Go sit with Dad and I'll put some popcorn in the microwave."

I hope she stops it early so the popcorn doesn't taste partially burnt. I hate the taste of burnt popcorn. There is plenty of room for me to sit down on the couch, but I choose to sit on the chaise next to the window, where I can see right out to the neighbors' house. Blue and red lights flash outside as police and paramedics arrive next door.

The woman who lives across the street will surely be over in the morning to gossip about whatever has happened tonight. Mom claims she's full of lies and tells me not to believe a word she says, but I've known her to tell the truth at times, at least a portion of it.

I inhale the aroma of freshly-popped popcorn and butter wafting into the room. I love popcorn, but the yelling outside draws my attention back to the house next door. According to town gossip, this isn't the first time something strange happened in that house. It had been vacant from the moment I was adopted until about three years ago. Supposedly, three years is the average time for people to live there.

"One of them is still breathing!" a police officer yells as he runs out of the front door of the home. "We need a paramedic now!"

Two men file out of the ambulance, rolling a stretcher. Pushing a button on the side, they raise the legs in order to carry it the rest of the way once they reach the steps leading to the porch.

One of the police officers, wearing a large, yellow poncho, lines the front yard with crime scene tape. Sure enough, when I glance toward the fire truck as the officer puts up the last of the tape, I notice the lady next door. Mrs. Gossip herself has shown up to witness the latest neighborhood drama.

"Laney, what movie do you want to watch?" Mom asks as she walks back into the room, carrying a bowl filled with popcorn. It doesn't smell burnt, and for a moment I'm torn between watching a movie and watching what is happening right outside the window. I might be no better than Mrs. Gossip.

"The police are next door," I respond, not answering her question.

My mom fidgets with the bowl of popcorn in her hands and looks to my dad. Dad pats the couch cushion beside him.

"Sweetheart, come sit by your old man and watch a movie with us. We'll even let you pick which one." He smiles, but even I can tell it's forced.

I turn back to the window as my parents begin speaking in hushed tones behind me. Two police officers come out of the house and down the steps carrying a stretcher. They lay the stretcher gently on the ground, and a man in slacks and a dress shirt walks over to it with a stethoscope. Squatting down on the ground, the doctor opens the collar of the person's shirt and places his fingers on their neck.

I feel my father's hand on my shoulder and I look up to him.

"They're dead, aren't they?" I ask, and he nods.

My mom sniffles from behind me, and I feel for her. The lady next door was her only friend. Most of the people in this town are not genuinely good people, including the father of the family next door.

Two more police officers walk out of the house with another body bag and two more body bags follow. Four body bags. There were only five people living there. I wait anxiously for the final person to come out of the house and after what seems like hours, a paramedic walks out of the house, his once white and crisp shirt covered in blood. He pulls off his blue gloves and tosses them in a bag one of the police officers holds.

An officer says something to the paramedic as he unbuttons his bloodied shirt, wearing a fresh pair of gloves. The medic pauses in his undressing and shakes his head. The officer runs his hands through his hair, wiping them down his face as he turns to walk away. Moments later, the other paramedic walks out of the house with another officer, carrying the last and final body bag.

I turn away from the window. My parents are no longer in the room, and the popcorn sits forgotten on the coffee table.

None of the children were my age. They were all either much older or much younger. That's how it is with all of the kids on the block.

"Mom?" I yell through the house. "Dad?"

Neither of them answers for a moment, then Dad walks out of their room, closing the door behind him. He looks at me, forcing a smile.

"I think we should all head to bed," he encourages.

I glance at the clock above the fireplace. "It's only seven."

"Your mom isn't feeling well."

I nod, picking up the popcorn bowl. "Okay," I concede, and climb the stairs leading to the second floor, where my bedroom is.

# Chapter 2

### Kass

"Hey, you wanna come over and swim?" I ask Laney over the fence separating our back yards. "You're already wearing a bathing suit." And boy is she ever. That skintight one-piece with the missing back has me thinking of things that shouldn't cross a friend's mind.

She closes the book she'd been reading and throws her legs over the lounge chair.

"It depends. Who all is over there?" She asks, shielding her eyes from the sun.

"Just a few of the guys from the team."

"And their girlfriends?"

"Some are, some aren't," I tell her honestly. Not that I'd have any interest in any of these girls.

Laney smiles. "Sure, let me grab a towel."

A few minutes later, her gate creaks open and closed and then my gate does the same. Laney has added a cover-up over her bathing suit. I don't know what purpose it serves because it's completely transparent, but whatever makes her more comfortable.

"Laney!" I shout. "Over here."

She waves and begins walking my way.

"Dude, you're drooling," Geo criticizes, laughing.

I wipe my chin and mouth but find no drool. I glare at him for a moment, but he's too busy staring at his girlfriend, Renee, who is finally taking off her t-shirt and shorts to jump in the pool.

Renee wiggles her butt a little and Geo growls. She looks over her shoulder and smiles before standing and walking our way.

Laney walks up at about the same time Renee does. Renee plants a kiss on Geo's mouth that isn't exactly appropriate for the public, and Laney diverts her eyes, her cheeks turning pink.

I elbow Geo in the side and he breaks the kiss.

"Laney," I say, placing my hand on her back. I really wish that damn cover-up wasn't there. "This is Geo and his girlfriend, Renee," I introduce them, and Renee giggles.

"Sorry for the... um... display of affection." She turns her gaze to Geo, smiling.

Geo laughs. "Quit looking at me like that or there'll be some other displays they may not want to see."

Renee blushes and glances toward Laney and me.

"Is this the Laney you've been talking about?" Renee asks.

My eyes widen, but I nod my head. "Yeah."

Laney smiles at me and any ounce of embarrassment is replaced with glee. Yup, I'm a seventeen-year-old dude and I'm giddy over a girl. I'm so fuckin' screwed.

Renee loops her arm in Laney's and drags her over to the lounge chairs she and Geo had claimed when they arrived. Geo is easily my best friend and favorite teammate, so they were the first to arrive and will probably be the last to leave.

"So..." Geo starts. "Laney?" He raises his eyebrows when he voices her name.

"Yeah." I sigh. "Laney."

"She know how you feel?" he asks, watching as Laney and Renee exchange fits of laughter.

I shake my head even though he isn't looking at me. "No, she doesn't know."

Geo smiles as he gazes at Renee. He turns his head to face me and gets a serious look in his eyes. "You should tell her." He returns his gaze to Renee and a cheesy-ass smile lights up his face. "Best thing I ever did was tell Renee I wanted her."

I smile, knowing these two are meant for each other. Then, I look at Laney and nerves set in. Maybe I'll tell her tomorrow. Best not to put her on the spot in front of all these people, not to mention I don't want a crowd if she rejects me.

# Chapter 3

### Laney

Kass and I hadn't really hung out much away from our houses. He'd come over a few times to help Dad with the 'Stang, shoot some hoops with me in the driveway, or I'd go over there to swim, but we really didn't spend a lot of time together. So I'm shocked when my phone rings and it's his name flashing across the screen. We'd just hung out yesterday at his pool party. Surely he doesn't want to hang out again. We almost never see each other two days in a row.

"I'm headed to the diner to meet up with Geo and Renee. You wanna come?" he asks.

I think about it for a moment and run through the things I have to do today. Clothes are haphazardly thrown on the floor and banister of the bed. I should probably do laundry, but it's still summer, I can do it tomorrow.

"Sure," I find myself replying.

"Cool, I'll be there in a few."

The line goes dead, and I stand there for a moment, frozen.

"Shit."

I haven't even showered today. Running for the bathroom, I trip over a pair of jeans and a tennis shoe. The image in the mirror taunts me. My hair is smashed to my face on one side and frizzy on the other. The mascara I'd worn to dinner with my parents last night is caked under my eyes, creating horrific dark bags.

"Shit," I grit out again, turning toward the shower and twisting the knob to get the water flowing. I need to at least wash my hair and face.

The doorbell rings as I'm applying new mascara to my fresh face. I run my fingers through my soaking wet hair. An air dry will have to do. A knock on my door startles me as I'm pulling my jean shorts up.

"Kass is here. He says y'all are going to the diner with some friends."

I look up at my mom and smile. "Yeah."

She nods and commands, "Don't stay out too late."

I glance at the watch on my wrist. "It's only two in the afternoon, I'll probably be home before dinner."

Mom smiles and nods before heading back downstairs. I rush to finish getting ready before following her down, hopping on one leg to fasten my sandals.

"You gonna eat those fries?" Geo asks Renee, and she shakes her head.

"I'm going low carb. I want to drop a size," she claims.

Geo laughs. "If you drop a size, you'll be shopping in the kiddie section."

The back of her hand pops him in the stomach, and he smiles, giving her a kiss on the cheek.

"You don't need to diet, babe, you're perfect the way you are," he concurs, and she melts into his side, smiling broadly.

Kass, who is sitting beside me, pretends to gag, and I let out a giggle. Yup, I giggled. _What the hell is wrong with me?_

The bell over the door to the diner chimes and in walks Melanie, the bitch of the school, and some other girl I've never seen before.

"Who's that?" Renee asks.

Kass stares at the new girl for a moment too long before turning his attention back to the table.

"You know her?" I ask him.

"Who?" He glances back to the girl as she sits down at a table with Melanie then shakes his head. "Haven't seen her before."

I turn my attention back to Renee, who is smiling a knowing smile at me. I don't have a clue what she thinks she knows, but she's most likely wrong.

"Maybe she's Melanie's cousin or something," Geo offers, and Renee gags.

"We definitely don't need two of her in this town," she muses, scowling at Geo like he's the reason Melanie has a new minion.

I shrug. "Maybe she isn't like Melanie."

Geo and Renee both shrug. "Maybe," they respond in unison.

_Ryder spins the napkin container on the table. He knows he can't be seen, but watching Laney can be so boring sometimes. He loses control of the napkin dispenser and it clatters to the tabletop. Several heads turn his way._ Crap _. Ryder rights the dispenser and sits on his hands, something the Archs are constantly telling him to do._

_The door to the diner opens, and the girl who's been mean to Laney walks in with..._ No _. The seat that had been vacated before fills with Ryder's most senior leader. The head Arch—well, the one who is head of the keepers like Ryder._

Ryder begins to slide the salt shaker from one hand to the other.

" _Would you stop doing that?" the Arch barks loud enough to make Ryder's ears ring._

" _Sorry," he answers._

The Arch sighs and returns his attention to her. Sasha. The girl at the top of the DO NOT ASCEND list. She has keepers whose only jobs are to keep the people around her from dying. So far they've been successful, but considering the fact they aren't allowed to directly intervene, it's only a matter of time before they fail.

" _When the hell did she move here?" the Arch asks, turning his glare on Ryder._

Ryder stares at the unmoving salt shaker in front of him and shrugs his shoulders. "I don't know."

" _Have you seen her before?"_

Ryder shakes his head. "No."

The Arch bangs his fist on the table, rattling everything on top, and then he's gone. Ryder's shoulders sag in partial relief until he catches sight of what has Sasha's full attention. This is going to be bad.

# Chapter 4

### Kass

I can see Laney lounging in her backyard, reading a book, from my bedroom window. She's not in anything especially provocative, but she still takes my breath away.

"You can do this," I encourage aloud, giving myself a little pep talk before heading to the back yard.

My gate creaks open as I exit my yard and walk to her gate. I knock on the wood and walk right through. This isn't the first time I've walked into their back yard, inviting myself over.

"Hey," Laney greets, sitting up and closing her book as I approach.

I smile but don't return her greeting. My tongue is already tied and my hands are already sweating; greeting her was not in the plans. _Shit. I should have added that in there. Geez, I'm screwing this up already._

"So..." I begin, and she tilts her head to the side, waiting for me to continue. "I was thinking about going for some ice cream a little later and thought maybe you'd like to come with?"

"Like last weekend? With Geo and Renee."

I gulp and shake my head. "Just us." Taking a deep breath, I steel myself for what is coming next. "Like a date."

Nothing. No reaction. That is what I get after being so worked up about this for the past week. She doesn't look surprised, she doesn't look overly happy or giddy, but she also doesn't look mad or disgusted, so I'll mark that in the good category.

Laney nods and picks her book back up, then leans back in the chair. "Sure, what time?"

_That's it? Sure, what time? Seriously? Wait... that's a yes._ She said yes. I internally fist bump myself but play it cool on the outside. I drop my cheesy grin and do a single head nod like I expected her to say yes. Confidence is key.

"After dinner? Around eight?"

"Okay," she answers, then opens her book back up and begins to read.

"Okay," I confirm, heading back over to my house.

She said yes!

The door rattles a little as I knock, and I wonder if I did it too loudly. What if her parents get pissed and don't let her come?

The door opens, and Laney stands in front of me, a soft smile on her lips. She's wearing a white summer dress. It hugs her tightly just under her chest and flares out over her hips and thighs. White sandals adorn her feet, her toenails painted purple.

"Hi," I greet, the flowers behind my back slipping in my sweaty hands _. Why am I so nervous? We've hung out alone before._

"Hi," she acknowledges, her bottom lip getting trapped under her teeth. I nearly groan out loud at the sight.

"You look beautiful," I tell her.

"Thank you." She cringes. "My parents would like to speak to you first. I hope that's okay."

I nod. "Of course." Then, like an idiot, I rush to pull the flowers from behind my back. "These are for you," I reveal, shoving them far too close to her face. She rears back a little but graciously takes them from my hands.

"I'll go get a vase. My parents are probably in the kitchen, anyway," she surmises, and I follow her into the house.

Chairs screech across the floor, and her father looks a little out of breath as they sit at the table, pretending to read. The newspaper in her mother's hands is upside down and her father is reading _Cosmopolitan_. I hold in my laughter; they were spying on us and are doing a terrible job of hiding it.

Laney grabs a vase and begins filling it with water. I turn to greet her parents, but her father speaks before I get the chance to say anything. I've met them before but never because I'm taking their daughter out on a date.

"So, Kass," he begins, "where are you taking Laney tonight?"

I rub my palms on my jeans, hoping to get rid of some of the moisture.

"The creamery at the square," I answer.

He nods and looks to Laney, a soft, tender expression on his face. "A favorite of ours."

Laney smiles at him before placing the flowers in the vase.

"It must be good if it's a favorite." I smile, feeling marginally more comfortable about the evening until Laney's dad's gaze falls back on me. Right. "We should probably head out."

Laney's dad picks up the magazine, dismissing us. "Have her home by ten."

I nod, but he doesn't see it. "Yes, sir."

The creamery is only a ten-minute drive from our houses and I have no clue what to say the entire time. My hand moves from the gear shift to the steering wheel and back even though I'm not needing to change gears. The silence is awkward, but I don't know how to fill it.

Finally, we get to the creamery, and I run around the truck to open Laney's door only to find she's already climbing down. I rush from where she stands, closing the door to open the door to the creamery. _What the hell am I doing?_ I should have walked with her to the door then held it open. Crap, you'd think this is my first date ever, not just my first with Laney.

The woman working the register smiles warmly at us and greets Laney by name.

"Hey, Laney."

Laney smiles at her and begins to peruse the array of flavors. I give the cashier my order, and she begins to load up the waffle cone with scoops before handing it over to me. I immediately dig in and realize that might not have been the best idea considering I finish my ice cream before Laney even has hers in her hand.

Laney turns to me with a smile on her face as she gives her cone the first lick.

"Where's yours?" she asks, and I blush. Yup, I'm a blushing dude apparently.

I hang my head and reluctantly answer her, "I finished it."

"Oh." She hesitates, looking at her ice cream like she's worried she needs to rush through it now.

"Want to go for a walk?" I ask her before she has the chance to lick the cone again.

She smiles and nods. "Sure."

We walk in silence for a moment while I think about everything that has gone wrong tonight. It's like animals raised me and I have no clue how to treat a woman on a date. I turn abruptly, startling Laney.

"This is going terribly, isn't it?" I ask her before diverting my gaze elsewhere. "I'm not normally this nervous," I confess, hoping she doesn't hear.

Her hand falls on my arm and I jerk in surprise. Laney rears back from my sudden movement and the chocolate scoop at the top of her cone teeters and falls off, rolling down the front of her white dress, leaving a brown trail behind.

"Shit," I bark much too loudly before turning to run back toward the creamery. Surely they have napkins. Maybe I'll even ask if they happen to have one of those laundry pen things that gets out stains when you can't get to a washer.

Napkins fly out of my grasp in a trail behind me as I rush to where Laney was standing. I stop, looking around, and I don't find her anywhere. The concrete is rough on my hands as I plop down on the sidewalk. What the hell am I doing? I think, placing my head in my palms. Maybe she'd still be here if I hadn't run off to get napkins. A door chimes behind me, and I turn to see Laney coming out of a building. My eyes drift to the sign over the door. Tacos To-Go. Of course there would be an establishment that has napkins right where we were standing.

Laney's dress looks less of a mess than it did before I ran off.

"The restaurant had napkins." I sigh. "Of course they would have napkins." I shake my head back and forth. "This was a terrible idea. I'm sorry, I'll take you home."

Laney nods, and we walk silently back to my truck. I drive us back to Laney's house in total silence. We hadn't even been gone an hour. Laney is already getting out of the truck, so I rush to walk her to her door. She stops and turns to me before she opens it.

"Maybe we should just stay friends. Everything went smoothly when we were just friends," she proposes, and my head falls, looking to the ground as I nod.

"Okay."

"See you later, Kass." She hesitates for a moment before she walks into her house and closes the door on my dreams.

# Chapter 5

### Laney

I hadn't expected to be pulled into the fold with Kass and his friends, Geo and Renee, but they'd latched on to me the moment school started. I have a few classes with Renee, and the four of us have the same lunch period.

"So are y'all going to the party Friday night?" Renee asks Kass and me. She always asks us questions as if we are a couple and the only way we do things is together. I've explained to her that we tried that but it was a disaster, so we've mutually decided to remain friends. She doesn't believe me.

Kass shrugs. "Whose party?"

Renee winces. "The new girl."

"So Melanie will be there?" I ask.

Geo shrugs. "She might be, but supposedly, the new girl is loaded and has a huge house, so we may not even see her."

"I don't know..." I drag it out like I'm undecided.

The new girl, Sasha, walks by our table and smiles seductively at Kass.

"We should go," Kass affirms to the table, and Renee glances behind her to see Sasha walking down to the lower level of the cafeteria. She turns back around and looks at me.

"We should all go," Renee challenges, staring me down.

"I'm not really big on parties," I begin, but I stop when the point of Renee's boot connects with my shin. "Ow," I growl in her direction.

She smiles and sits up. "It's settled then. We'll all go to the party. Kass, you should drive Laney since she doesn't have a car and you live next door to each other, anyway."

"Sure," Kass agrees with a mouthful of mashed potatoes.

Who was it that said maybe we should give Sasha a chance? Maybe she's not like Melanie? Well, they were utterly wrong. I've already spilled two drinks on myself after she purposely bumped into me. Now? She's dancing provocatively in the living room, catching the stares of every male here, except Geo, of course. He and Renee went upstairs as soon as we crossed the threshold.

Kass has stayed by my side for most of the evening, but I'm beginning to feel like a third wheel even though it's just the two of us—well, him, me, and his eyes glued to Sasha's ass.

A month ago, he was asking me on a date and now, he's drooling over some other girl. Thank goodness I decided we should just stay friends; otherwise, he'd probably be contemplating cheating right about now.

"I'm gonna go get another," I say to him, holding up my red plastic cup. He doesn't acknowledge I've even said a word, so I head off in the direction of the kegs.

The beer at these things is severely watered down and tastes like piss, but there's a bucket full of ice and water sitting next to the keg. Most parties don't have water available. For a split second, I mentally thank Sasha for thinking of those of us who don't like beer, then I chastise myself for thanking the girl trying to take my man.

Shit.

He's not my man.

It's all my fault.

I toss the cup in the trash can and turn for the front of the house. I'll either ask Kass to take me home or I'll walk the few miles home. But when I look down at my flip-flops, I have second thoughts.

The living room is packed with people, and I go directly to the pool table Kass had been leaning on when I left to get a drink. He's not there.

"Kass?" I call but get no response.

I walk around aimlessly for a moment before stopping at the foot of the stairs. He's not anywhere downstairs, which means he can only be upstairs. I shudder thinking of what I might walk into.

A door opens just as I am up high enough to see over the last step. Dark red hooker heels walk backward out of the room, followed closely by a pair of shoes I've seen almost as often as I've seen my own shoes. I glide my eyes up to see Sasha standing close to Kass, whispering in his ear. He has a smile I've never seen on his face before. I turn and run down the steps. I don't need a fucking ride. I hate exercise, but I'd hate to interrupt whatever the hell he's been doing with Sasha more.

# Chapter 6

### Kass

I don't know how Sasha and Melanie came to know each other, but the two are nothing alike. Sasha is sweet and caring whereas Melanie is a bitch. She's bullied Laney nearly as long as Laney's lived here.

The truck rattles down the rough road leading to the diner. Laney isn't a huge fan of pizza and that's why I chose to bring Sasha to Pizza Palace. I know Laney and I aren't together. Believe me, I know. She's made that glaringly clear. But maybe Sasha and I can be. She'll never be Laney, but I like her and she's been really nice. Plus, I don't mind watching her shake those hips.

Pizza Palace is a seat-yourself type of restaurant, so we head straight for a booth in the back. It's a little darker back here and there aren't as many people. I slide in the booth and Sasha slides in beside me. It's a little strange that she doesn't sit across from me. This is our first date together, and I figured it'd be more like an inquisition than a scoot-close-and-cuddle type of date. But I can definitely adjust.

"What can I get you guys?" the waitress asks.

We give her our drink order, and I order a large pepperoni pizza while Sasha orders a salad. _Great, she's one of those girls._ Laney can put away a double meat burger then move on to eat some of her fries. _Shit, I'm doing it again._

"So, Sasha, where did you move here from?"

"Houston," she replies, "but I don't want to talk about where I came from."

I nod my head, and Sasha steers the conversation from there. The date actually goes really well and now, dropping her off at her house, I'm a little sad it's over.

She turns to face me when we get to her door, dropping my hand.

"I had a great time tonight." She smiles shyly, but I haven't gotten the impression she's shy at all tonight.

"Me, too," I reveal, and she latches one finger in my belt loop, pulling me close.

Her smile grows as she stands on her toes to brush her lips against mine. The kiss is over almost as soon as it started. It felt okay; there was nothing wrong with it, but it just didn't _seem_ right. Laney flashes through my mind and I smile one more time at Sasha.

"Call me," Sasha calls out as I descend the porch steps to her house.

I don't say anything in response to her; I climb back in the cab of my truck and take a look around Sasha's front yard. There is a single car sitting in front of her house other than mine, and it looks like a car that comes with a driver. I drive around her circle drive and head for the wrought-iron fence in front. It's kind of ridiculous how rich her parents are.

I could tell Sasha was a little put off by the appearance of my truck when I picked her up tonight. She wiped the look from her face the second I stepped out of the vehicle and I let it slide. I love my truck. It may not be the prettiest thing out there, but my dad and I completely rebuilt the engine on our own. I smile just thinking about the early days when I had no clue what I was doing.

I turn the corner to my street and see Laney sitting on the porch swing in front of her house with a book. She looks up when she hears my truck rumble by. I hop out of the truck and turn to go over and talk to her but she's gone, leaving the porch swing swinging back and forth as if she left in a hurry. I sigh.

Will I ever understand the opposite sex?

Walking through the front door of my house, I get my answer. My mom is standing on a ladder, swatting at something in the air with a duster while my dad stands below, telling her she's crazy.

"There's nothing there, Hon," he concludes, crossing his arms and tilting his head to the side.

Her tongue sticks out of the side of her mouth, just as it does every time she is concentrating. "I... almost..." The ladder teeters and she falls. Dad and I run to catch her, but only one of us makes it in time. She smiles up at my father. "Got it."

He shakes his head and puts her back on her feet. It hurts to look at the smile on his face. The love they have for each other is unwavering and so strong. That is how I thought I felt about Laney, but I guess it wasn't mutual.

"What did you get?" he asks her, holding in a laugh.

"That damn cobweb that's been floating around every time the air conditioning turns on."

Dad loses it. His laughter rings off the walls and he bends over, holding his stomach, before his look turns to mock anger. "You mean you risked your life to get a damn cobweb?"

Mom rolls her eyes. "Don't be dramatic. My life wasn't in danger." She pats his chest. "I know my big, strong man is here to save me," she chides in her baby voice, and he scowls.

Shaking my head, I head for the stairs leading up to my room.

"You guys are ridiculous," I call over my shoulder, and they both laugh.

# Chapter 7

### Laney

Renee looks up from across from me, and her eyes widen before she tries to hide it.

"What?" I ask.

"Oh, nothing," she responds in a sing-song voice. _Oh, nothing my ass._

I turn in my seat and Renee cringes. I narrow my eyes at her before looking over the back of our booth.

Walking through the door, hand in hand, are Sasha and Kass. They're walking so close together, I can't see any space between them. I grit my teeth and turn around, shrugging my shoulders like I don't care.

"Oh no," Renee whisper-yells, and I glare at her. "They're coming over here."

"Shit," I exclaim without thinking.

"Hey," Kass greets cheerfully then looks to Renee. "Where's Geo?"

She glares at him. "I'm not his keeper." Kass holds up his hands, dropping Sasha's hand for a moment, but my hopes are squashed as his hand goes right back to hers afterward. _Hopes are squashed? What's wrong with me? I turned him down. What the hell was I thinking?_

"Oh, guys, this is Sasha. Sasha, this is Laney and Renee."

Sasha smiles sweetly, but it drips with fakeness. "Nice to meet you two." She tugs on Kass's arm. "I think our table is ready," she coaxes, and Kass turns to us.

"We could all share a table, right?"

The waitress sets our food on the table. "We were just leaving." I cringe like I'm sorry it happened, and Renee's head jerks to face me, her eyes wide and staring at the steaming food on our plates. "Can we get some to-go boxes and the check?" I ask the waitress, and she looks at me like I'm insane.

"Sure," the waitress concedes.

Kass looks a little confused. "But you just—"

Sasha tugs on his arm again. "They said they're leaving, sweetie."

Kass's lips thin into a line. "Right." He looks down at Sasha and smiles before looking back to us. "See you guys later." Then they walk off.

"What the hell was that?" Renee asks. "I'm starving."

I sigh. "I can't sit at the same table with them and watch them fawn all over each other. It's gross."

"Uh-huh. Sure it is." She taps her chin with her pointer finger. "Although, you don't seem to have a problem when Geo and—"

"Don't," I grit, knowing exactly where she's going with this. "We'll go eat at the park."

"Fine. But if a single fry blows away, I'll never forgive you."

I laugh. "Okay, fatty," I tell her, and she scowls. Renee is easily the smallest person in our class. She's short and tiny but eats just like Geo, and he's a linebacker.

# Chapter 8

### Kass

Laney stands a few feet in front of me next to her locker, facing away from me, talking to another girl. I resist the urge to check her out while she isn't aware. I'm supposed to be dating Sasha now, not fantasizing about Laney.

Laney's hand falls to her side and immediately I know something is wrong. I quicken my pace to get to her and take her trembling hand in mine. She smiles up at me, shakily.

Sasha stands in front of her, and my brows furrow as I drop Laney's hand. "What's going on?" I ask.

Looking down at Laney, I know whatever is going on isn't good. Laney's face is pale, and I can see the tears she's holding back glistening in her eyes. She avoids eye contact with both Sasha and me.

"Hey," Sasha attempts to draw my attention to her, running a finger down my chest.

"Hey," I return before turning Laney to face me.

"Is everything okay?" I ask her, placing a hand on her cheek. She turns her head, making me lose contact with her face, and she jerks a quick nod.

Sasha is standing beside me, watching Laney with a sinister smile on her face. She must be the one who has been giving Laney hell. I know I've been kind of distant from her lately, but that doesn't mean Geo hasn't kept me in the loop. We know someone has been tormenting her, we just didn't know who. Now, I think I have an idea, and it sickens me that I've been dating her for the past few weeks.

Laney pulls away from me. "I'll be fine." She looks to Sasha, and a single tear falls down her face before she turns and hurriedly walks away from us.

"What did you do?" I ask Sasha. We've been on two dates and during the last one, she acted like we were a couple. She'd plastered herself to my side the second she saw Laney at the diner the other night. When we'd finally been seated, she repeatedly looked over at Laney's table and either put her hand or her mouth on me, where it didn't belong. I knew something was up, but I'm a dude in high school, I don't exactly turn the touchy-feely away.

Sasha shrugs. "I just told her about Friday night."

My brows furrow in confusion. "What about Friday night?"

"You know, the party?"

"No, I don't know, Sasha." I'd gone to another party with Geo and Renee. Laney was supposed to come, but she said she wasn't feeling well. I pretty much hung with Geo all night until Renee got sloshed and they went upstairs, and then I walked home. That's it.

I shake my head. "This," I gesture between us, "is over. Laney is my friend, and I don't tolerate people who make her cry." Knowing it's near impossible to make Laney cry, Sasha must've said something horrible.

Sasha begins to respond, but I turn and follow Laney down the hall.

I grab Laney's wrist and pull us into a broom closet at the end of the hallway. I turn her to face me, and she finally lets the tears streak down her face, but she remains silent. Wrapping my arms around her to pull her in close, she sags against me, her shoulders quaking with each sob.

"Shhhh. It's okay. I got you."

Laney breathes in a deep breath before pulling away slightly—not enough that I lose my hold but enough that she can make eye contact. Then, she breaks my heart.

"She said you slept with her at the party last Friday."

First mistake? Going to that stupid party without Laney. "I barely know—"

She cuts me off. "I know, but then she told me every little detail of your supposed time together, and I could see it. It was playing out, right in front of me, Kass, and I just broke."

Laney is jealous?

She'd been acting differently ever since my first date with Sasha, but I'd never put two and two together. Laney said we should just be friends, and I respected that.

I pull her in close again as she lets out a sob. I don't speak until she calms down. The bell to signal we are late for class sounds, but neither of us moves. I can't let her out of my sight right now. I won't.

Laney suddenly stands up on her tippy toes and slams her mouth against mine. The force knocks me into the giant sink behind me, but I don't break contact. I am going to revel in every blissful minute she gives me. Her tongue slides in and tangles with mine in practiced precision. I haven't ever had a kiss like this. She retreats and nibbles on my bottom lip, producing a moan from the depths of my throat. Her lips leave mine, and we are both panting in the dingy mop room.

She pulls me tight against her, resting her head on my chest, and my arms naturally surround her. We stay like this, just holding each other until the bell rings, signaling the end of class.

"You wanna get out of here?" I ask her.

She's never skipped school before—not even a class—and I see the thoughts warring in her mind. It doesn't take long before she reaches a decision and nods enthusiastically.

"Breakin' all the rules today. What am I going to do with you?" I question, pulling her out of the closet.

Laney giggles, and I smile at the sound. I turn on her and she bumps into me, not expecting the stop. I wipe under her eyes and she smiles. Giving her a swift kiss before taking her hand in mine, we head for my truck.

# Chapter 9

### Laney

Kass's parents are out of town this weekend, which isn't unusual. They go out of town for a weekend once or twice a month and invited my parents to go with them this time. They worried about whether or not they should go, but I assured them I'm old enough to spend the weekend at home alone. Not that there's much for me to do as far as taking care of myself; Mom fixed a week's worth of meals for me to reheat even though they'll only be gone one night.

My parents think I'll be home alone all weekend, but I packed a bag the second they hesitantly slid into the car with Kass's parents and drove away. I bite my lip, wondering what I should expect tonight. We have kissed a few times since that day in the broom closet but nothing more than that. I'm ready for more, but he hasn't given me any hints to as whether or not he's ready.

I head next door with my bag over my shoulder and take a deep breath before I walk right in. The familiar scent of fresh-cut flowers hits my nose as I venture through the entryway.

I walk to the living room after locking the door behind me. The living room with all of its lived-in furniture and big screen TV attached to multiple game, video, and stereo systems feels deserted. Nearly every other time I've been here, Kass would be sitting on the couch watching football games. But now, if I hadn't noticed the few lights on upstairs, I would think no one is home. The silence is eerie, and I second-guess what I could see from outside.

"Kass?" I call out.

Nothing.

I walk a little further into the living room when I hear a cabinet in the kitchen creak open. Jumping when a glass shatters on the floor, I turn my head to see the shards of glass on the tile. My scream is deafening even to my own ears. The entire kitchen can be seen from the living room, and I am completely alone.

Still nothing from Kass.

I run from the shattered glass to the upstairs landing, heading straight to Kass's room. The hallway light flickers, creeping me out further. I open his door, not caring about being courteous; only the comfort of seeing another person could calm me right now.

Kass stands in front of his bed in only a pair of faded jeans. The muscles in his back ripple when he bends to pick a shirt up off of his bed.

How did he not hear me barge in here, or the scream for that matter?

"Kass," I breathe.

He turns slowly, his shirt covering his face as he pulls it on. I've spent hours this summer with him swimming in his pool, and none of those times compare to how his sculpted chest looks right now. I'm only able to see the lower half as he pulls his shirt down to cover his delicious abs, but the way his pants hang just off his hips has me salivating.

"Hey, eyes up here," he demands, humor in his voice.

My eyes meet his, the smile falling from his face as he approaches me. He takes my face in his hands, his eyes darting between each of mine. "Is everything okay?" he asks.

I gulp and take a deep breath. "Remember after we first met when I told you this house was haunted?"

He nods. "Remember when I told you how crazy you were for believing the town gossip?"

"It's not gossip. The entire family died here, and supposedly, people can still hear their screams..." His thumb strokes my cheek seconds before he drops his hands from my face. It's a tender gesture, and I wish he would continue doing it.

"I haven't seen anything spooky or heard any screams, and I've lived here for over a year now."

I grab his hand and practically drag him downstairs. "Then explain that," I command, pointing to the floor where the cup had fallen minutes ago.

Kass flips on the light. "Explain what?" he asks, looking at me like I've completely lost my mind.

"The glass on the floor!" I yell, not even looking to confirm the glass is still there _. Where would it go?_ We are the only two here, and neither of us could have touched it.

"Laney, there isn't any glass on the floor."

I turn quickly and notice he's right. The glass is gone and the cabinet is shut _. What. The. Hell?_

"It was there! I was calling for you, but you weren't answering. The cabinet squeaked open and a glass crashed to the floor, breaking into a million tiny pieces."

Kass reaches for the cabinet and opens it. It doesn't make a sound. "This cabinet?"

I look down to my feet before answering, knowing I'll only continue to look crazy. "Yes," I sigh as Kass continues to silently swing the cabinet door.

"None of the cabinets creak," he offers.

"I'm not crazy," I argue.

"I never said you were."

"Doesn't mean you weren't thinking it."

He smiles and pulls me in for a hug. I revel in his hugs. They're warm, and even though his body is solid rock against my soft curves, it's one of the most comfortable places I have been given the privilege of being held. It feels like heaven to have his arms around me.

"I love your crazy." My heart skips a beat. I know he can't mean it the way I want him to, but it gives me hope he might someday.

" _What the hell were you thinking?" the Arch asks Ryder. Ryder has to crane his head back to see the tall Arch's face. Steam rises from under his cloak, and Ryder backs away without thinking. They hate it when he shows weakness. The Arch's forehead creases even more in anger._

" _I was trying to hide," Ryder reasons._

The Arch slaps Ryder across the back of the head. "She can't see us, you idiot!"

Ryder's cheeks pinken in embarrassment. "Sorry, I forgot."

The Arch shakes his head then disappears, mumbling, "Kid's never gonna cut it."

_Ryder's shoulders fall, and he shuts the cabinet door before snapping his fingers to clean up the glass_. Angel mojo definitely comes in hand, _he thinks to himself,_ even if I am the weakest angel. _Why they put him to the task of watching their most prized Ascent, he'll never know._

Laney and Kass walk back into the kitchen, and Ryder's back stiffens, straight as a board.

They can't see me.

They can't see me.

They can't see me.

He chants in his head before his body begins to tingle and spark when Kass walks through him to open and close the cabinet door. Wind blows through Ryder's hair as he runs from the room. He shivers, hoping to shake the sensation of Kass.

Screw that. I'll watch her later, _he thinks, knowing he's not allowed to leave her side._

# Chapter 10

### Kass

This night might be better than I originally thought. If Laney is going to be sticking to my side like glue out of fear of the "hauntings" then I'll be happy for the supposed hauntings.

"You want to get set up in the living room while I pop some popcorn?" I ask her.

"Mmmm," she hums, turning to head into the living room. "You know I love your popcorn," she calls over her shoulder. I watch her ass as it sways in her tight shorts when she continues down the hallway.

I grab a saucepan, drop in some popcorn kernels, and pour some oil on top. That microwave shit just doesn't cut it; I need the real deal, drenched in butter. I know it's not on the football diet, but I can always run an extra few miles in the morning.

Laney is snuggled up to my side; the blanket that covers her is pulled up to her nose. Each time Will Smith ventures out of his home for supplies or more mutants to experiment on, the blanket rises to cover her eyes.

She told me yesterday that she loves this movie and it's one of her favorites, but she spends the majority of the time with her eyes covered. It's a good one, and I've seen it before, but I would never have pegged it as a horror movie.

Laney pushes her face into my side when Will goes into the darkened building filled with mutants. "This is the worst part," she whispers.

"I thought you said the dog dying was the worst part."

"Okay, this is the second worst part." Her voice is muffled by the blanket covering her head.

I chuckle and rub her bicep, easing some of the tension that has seeped into her body. She really lets these movies get to her. It's cute, and I can't say I'm not partial to the excessive cuddling. I'd hoped we'd be doing a little more than cuddling, though.

The movie ends, and I am so glad Laney is still awake. She normally passes out halfway through, and although she's cute as hell when she's asleep, I'm not ready for this night to end just yet.

"What do you want to do now?" she asks, stretching her arms above her head.

Least favorite thing about the movie ending? Laney not covering the side of my body with hers in fear.

A loud crash sounds upstairs and Laney jolts back in my lap.

"What was that?" she squeaks.

"Probably Scott knocking something off the dresser again." Scott is my mom's cat, and his favorite activity is knocking shit off of high places, especially breakable shit.

"Oh," she concedes, pulling herself up and away from me once again.

"Wanna go for a swim?" I ask with hope clear in my voice.

She looks at me skeptically "In the dark?"

"That's the best time to swim. Besides, there are lights in the pool," I reason.

"I didn't bring my suit."

I smile. "Even better." I know she only lives in the house next door, but after the movie we just watched and her insistence that the house is haunted, there is no way she will want to go anywhere without me. That includes going to her house to get a swim suit.

She shoves me playfully. "I'll just dip my legs in the water."

I grab her hand. "C'mon."

I turn on the pool lights in the backyard, as well as the twinkle lights my parents hung around the deck when we first moved in. I hadn't noticed before, but the yard looks kind of romantic lit up like this.

Dropping Laney's hand, I grab the hem of my shirt and pull it over my head. I drop it next to me and move to undo the button on my jeans. Laney stands across from me, watching my every move with rapt attention. The button pops through the hole and I slide the zipper down slowly. _Don't get hard. Don't get hard,_ I chant in my head, but it's a struggle with the way she looks at me.

Her face is flushed, painting her cheeks and neck a nice pink color. I love getting her all flustered.

"You could always go in your bra and panties. It's not much different from a bikini, anyway."

Laney doesn't wear bikinis. At least none that I've seen. Her one-pieces are hot and hug her perfect body tightly, but seeing her bare stomach and heaving breasts peeking out of her bra would fulfill one of my many fantasies.

She gulps, and her eyes dart to my fidgeting hands next to my sides. Laney slowly shifts her gaze to my boxer briefs, her pink cheeks turning a shade darker. Her fingers toy with the edge of her shirt and slowly, the hem is lifted, revealing the perfect skin of her belly. I watch as each inch is uncovered and her hot pink bra is on full display.

_Don't get hard. Don't get hard. Shit. A semi will have to do._ It's about all the control I can muster at the moment.

# Chapter 11

### Laney

_This is happening. The next level._ I might let him touch my boob tonight. His hands on my body. This is what I wanted.

I slowly slide my shorts down my legs, revealing the blue boy shorts I'm wearing. I should have worn the matching panties for the bra. Why didn't I wear the matching panties? The first time a boy sees me without my clothes on and my bra and panties don't even match.

_What is that? Is he growing?_ I've never seen a penis before—and I can't see his now—but what I _assume_ is his penis seems to be getting larger _. Is that supposed to happen? Should I ask him? No, that's probably weird._

He smiles at me.

"You are gorgeous."

My skin flushes, and I know I probably look like a ripe tomato right now, but the way he's looking at me makes me think the color must be appealing.

His smile grows seconds before he takes off running and cannonballs into the pool, splashing me.

"You're gonna get it!" I yell before jumping in the pool right on top of him.

He ducks out of the way as my body breaks the water, and I miss hitting him by mere inches.

"You're not supposed to jump on top of someone already in the pool," he mock-scolds me, wading closer to where I'm treading water.

I smile. "What are you, the lifeguard?"

He chuckles. "Only if I can give you mouth to mouth." He wraps his arms around my middle and pulls me close.

I pretend to ponder that for a moment. "As long as I don't have to drown first."

Kass's mouth falls on mine—softly at first—but once he notices I am all in, his lips press harder against mine. Up until now, we've mostly only given each other pecks on the lips, and I've never done any more with any other guy. His tongue traces my bottom lip and he squeezes me tighter to him. My mouth opens eagerly and he doesn't disappoint. His tongue delves in, and I tentatively tangle mine with his.

Seconds after the kiss began, I am plunged completely into the water, and we break apart.

We both come up for air, breathing hard.

"Sorry," he apologizes, "I lost my footing."

A loud, barking laugh escapes from deep in my belly and I have no idea why. He yanks my foot out from underneath me and I'm submerged in the water once more. I come up right in front of him, my front rubbing against his.

My hair cascades in front of me, keeping me from seeing anything. Kass quickly pushes the hair away to reveal my whole face. His smile is tender and happy.

"I like kissing you," he whispers, his mouth hovering near mine.

"I like kissing you, too," I breathe.

"I think we should do more of it. Lots more."

I laugh. "Maybe we should get out of the deep end first."

He nods. "That might be a good idea."

Toweling my hair off in the bathroom joining Kass's room with the guest bedroom has me thinking of the sleeping arrangements tonight. I know Kass swears the house isn't haunted, but the glass shattering in the kitchen and the loud noise he claimed was Scott have me believing otherwise.

Standing in the doorway to Kass's room, he smiles at me from the bed. He scoots to the edge and rolls the covers down beside him before patting the bed next to him.

"I don't know..." I hesitate.

"C'mon, you know if you go into the guest bedroom to sleep, you're going to be up all night thinking about the 'ghosts.'" He air-quotes ghosts.

I drop the towel in the hamper next to the door and walk over to the bed. Kass pulls the covers back more and I slide in beside him. He turns off the lamp next to the bed and we are bathed in darkness. After a few minutes, my eyes adjust to the soft light coming in from the window, and I turn to face him.

His smile takes my breath away. In it, I see all of the feelings I have for him returned for me. He touches my face tentatively, tilting my head up and searching my eyes before leaning in for a kiss. It's more than a peck but less than what we were doing in the pool moments ago.

He breaks from the kiss but pulls me in close, and I rest my head on his outstretched arm. Together, wrapped up in each other, we fall asleep.

# Chapter 12

### Laney

I told the new kid, Simon, we could study together after school today but at the moment, I'm regretting that decision. He keeps talking to me and distracting me from watching Kass. He plays football like no other player I've ever seen. It's like an art form the way he sends the ball spiraling through the air.

"I still don't understand why the answer is fifty-two," Simon grates for the third time.

I sigh, hoping he doesn't notice, and turn to give him my full attention. I explain the problem again, for the fourth time. Simon works on the problem, and I stop him halfway through.

"No, the six goes here." I point to where he made the mistake on his paper. "That might be why you're getting a different answer."

He nods and finishes the problem. "Thanks."

I return my attention to the practice on the field. All of the players have their eyes trained on Sasha bending over on the sidelines "stretching." All except one. Kass has his gaze trained on Simon, and nothing about his expression is friendly.

First, Simon is into guys. Second, no man could ever amount to half the man Kass is to me. He's the perfect boyfriend, and I wouldn't trade him for anyone. I am so happy we have made it past terrible dates and the friend zone.

The coach blows the whistle and while all the other players run for the water, Kass runs for the stands. He jumps over the fence and runs up the steps to where I sit with Simon. I stand abruptly, my smile matching the wide one on his face. Simon says something from below me on the bleachers, but I don't hear a thing.

My heart beats erratically, and it's as if I can feel the blood speeding through my veins. I thought the feelings would go away after a while, but they've only intensified each and every time Kass's attention is trained on me.

Kass places his glove-covered hands on either side of my face and pulls me in for a kiss. I back away the moment I realize this is one of his sloppy kisses; I love them, but they're messy. His arms wrap around me and he pulls me up so my feet aren't touching the ground. Putting me down, he pulls away from my cheek, leaving it covered in his saliva. I groan and wipe my cheek on my shirt sleeve.

"'Sup," Kass greets Simon with a nod.

Simon shakes his head and laughs, so Kass plants one more kiss on my cheek before running back onto the field.

"Why can't gay guys look like him?" Simon sighs.

I laugh and pat him on the shoulder. "Oh I'm sure there are plenty that do, you just haven't met them yet."

"Figures," he mutters under his breath before shuffling his papers around, looking for the next problem that's been giving him hell.

# Chapter 13

### Kass

It's taken us over a year to get to the point in our relationship where it's deeper than friendship. Having Laney but not really having her was complete torture. She's everything to me and until now, I couldn't even show her.

"Hey, Laney, Kass," the hostess greets as we enter, the bell ringing loudly above us.

"Hey, Sam," Laney acknowledges, and I give my usual head nod.

We seat ourselves at our usual table and Judy, our usual waitress, stops by to take our usual order. We've been coming here several times a week after school for the past year, and they all treat us like family. Well, everyone but Melanie.

"Hey, Kass," Melanie calls as she sidles up to the table.

I give her a head nod just like I did Sam, but I don't smile. Her hangnail catches on the fabric of my sleeve when she runs her finger down my bicep. I slide away from her touch, being cautious not to make the movement terribly obvious.

"Why are you here with her?" she spits.

"Because Laney is an amazing girl, and any guy would be lucky to call her his. I just hope she decides that guy is me."

"What about Sasha?" she asks.

"What about Sasha?" I quip. "She and I have been over for a while."

Melanie huffs, then stomps away from our table.

Laney looks up at me, a smile on her reddened face. "Thank you," she insists just before Judy returns to our table with our food.

"Where to now?" Laney asks after we finish our meal.

"I thought we'd take a walk and get some ice cream," I offer, taking her hand in mine.

Laney smiles up at me and then looks down at her dress. "At least I'm not wearing white," she quips.

I bark out a laugh. "Yeah. I promise I won't leave you stranded if you spill all over yourself this time."

"I nearly cried on the sidewalk that night in front of that Mexican food restaurant."

"I didn't know we were standing in front of a building that would have ample amounts of napkins." Laney laughs at me. "I was trying to be a gentleman and get you napkins from the ice cream shop."

She laughs even harder. "A gentleman?"

"Yes," I declare with confidence.

She bumps her shoulder into mine. "It wasn't _that_ bad. We stayed friends afterward."

I shrug my shoulders. "I don't know about that. I was on a date with a girl who couldn't even get ice cream in her mouth."

Laney shoves me off the sidewalk. "It was your fault!"

I run back up to her, pulling her into my arms. Her feet barely touch the ground as I hold her close to me, face to face.

"I'm doing much better tonight."

Her cheeks turn a light pink as she smiles softly. "You might even get a kiss this time." Her body drags down mine as I release her from my hold.

A year ago, I was stuck in the friend zone. Now, we're on an amazing date. I'm happy for the time we spent as friends; it's what allows us to be ourselves around one another, giving us a natural progression into full-on girlfriend-boyfriend zone.

I wouldn't change a thing.

Not the blue balls after every weekend we'd spent together.

Not the dreams of one day getting my dream girl.

Not even being stuck in the friend zone for over a year.

# Chapter 14

### Kass

I stare over at Laney's house while I'm pulling the straps tight on the truck. I loosen my grip, and the strap cuts my hand. She knows I've planned a trip for us for the weekend, but she has no idea what I've got up my sleeve.

Geo pulls into the driveway behind me, and Renee throws open her door and glares at him before stomping off to Laney's house.

"What did you do now?" I ask him.

"Planned a camping trip." He looks pointedly at me. "With tents to sleep in."

"Renee doesn't like camping?" I ask in mock horror.

"Dude," he draws out the word, "she _hates_ camping."

I laugh and he glares.

"I tried to tell her how romantic it will be. I fed her the same crap you told me to say, about cuddling by the campfire and sleeping under the stars. She punched me in the gut."

I laugh even harder, grabbing on to the strap so I don't fall on my ass. Renee is a tiny little thing but feisty. Her punch probably felt more like a flutter. She'd never purposely hurt Geo.

"It's not funny. She said if I make her sleep on the ground in one of those damn things then she's going to castrate me in my sleep."

"Dude," I get out between breaths of laughter. "I can't take any more."

He glares. "She almost dumped me."

My laughter finally begins to die off.

"Don't worry, I've got you covered. I'm bringing the giant tent and cot for you guys. Laney and I will rough it."

"I don't think Renee is going to go for that. 'Roughing it' means anything less than a three-star hotel to her."

She's not stuck up; Renee hates bugs. She has a huge phobia. I'm starting to think I hadn't done much thinking when I invited Geo and told him to convince Renee to come along. This might actually turn into a disaster.

It takes us two hours to get to the campsite. Laney filled the time with excited chatter about the trip. Unlike Renee, she loves camping. Her parents took her all the time when she was younger.

I made sure our site was waterfront, and Laney squeals when she sees the water as we pull into the site. We hop out of the truck and take a look around until Geo and Renee pull in behind us.

Geo gets out immediately, and I can tell his ride was the complete opposite of mine. Renee gets out of the car a few moments later with a can of bug spray held tightly in her hand. She begins to spray the Deet mixture all over her body before walking the perimeter of the campsite and spraying it all over the ground, trees, and air.

Geo approaches us, shaking his head. "You better have some really awesome cots in there, or I'm afraid I'll be putting a hotel room on my parents' credit card."

"Don't you have to be twenty-five to get a hotel room?" Laney asks.

"I fucking hope not," Geo remarks, and I find myself holding in a bark of laughter.

Laney sighs. "I'll go talk to her. You guys get her glamping tent set up."

I salute, and Laney laughs as she walks over to where Renee is dousing the picnic table with bug repellent.

"I love her, man, I really do, but right now I am _not_ her biggest fan," Geo tells me, defeated.

I clap him on the shoulder. "Don't worry, she's never going to want to leave this tent."

We get to work, unloading the truck and setting up what my parents call the Taj Mahal. It's a canopy with a square tent the same size that attaches to the top. I'm six-feet-two and I can stand comfortably in it. The cot is a queen-size and will fit both Geo and Renee.

"This looks better than any hotel I've ever seen," Geo remarks, standing near the end of the cot.

Colored sheets drape from the top of the tent to the bottom, so it looks more like a Bohemian retreat. Aside from the floor, nothing on the inside resembles a tent. Electric mock-lanterns hang from the top to resemble light fixtures.

I look at Geo with horror. "Laney might be a little pissed we went through all of this for Renee but all she gets is a two-person tent with a blow-up mattress."

"Psh, she loves sleeping in tents," Geo remarks, and I laugh.

"Yeah, you're right."

"Holy shit!" Renee exclaims as she enters the tent.

Geo turns abruptly. "I was just about to come get you."

She looks up at him and smiles. "It looks amazing!"

"So you think you'll like camping?"

"In a place like this? Hell yes." She stands on her tippy toes and places her mouth on his. His arms go around her, and I get the feeling I'm intruding.

I step outside the massive tent to find Laney pushing the completely blown-up mattress into our tent. She'd set the entire thing up while I'd been helping Geo _. Shit, I hope she isn't pissed._

"Hey," I greet as I approach. She kicks off her shoes and lays back on the mattress, smiling as she looks through the mesh roof of the tent.

"Hey," she returns, still smiling. Smiling is good. Smiling isn't pissed.

"Sorry, I didn't get our tent set up." Her gaze falls from the sky and lands on me.

Her brown eyes sparkle in the sunlight, and her smile is more radiant than I've seen in a while.

"It didn't take me long to do. I've set up many tents in my life, and I actually kind of enjoy it."

"Really?"

"Yeah. I know it's silly, but I built our temporary home." Her cheeks pinken.

I chuckle a little. "Yeah, I guess you did."

I take my shoes off and leave them outside of the tent, on top of the tarp. My girl even set the tent up on the tarp. I smile as I slide into the tent next to her. The sheet is already on the mattress and it's cool against my skin. We lay side by side, our bodies touching—not in a sexual way, but it's perfect. Watching the clouds go by, next to my girl in our home for the next few days, is absolute perfection.

# Chapter 15

### Laney

I wasn't the least bit jealous of the glamping tent Geo and Kass set up for Renee. Camping is one of my favorite things to do, and I prefer to rough it a bit. I'd even gone primitive camping with my parents once. It was one of the most fun trips I'd ever been on.

Lying here next to Kass in our tent—listening to the birds chirping nearby and overhead—life is perfect. I drop my hand to my side, and he takes it in his, squeezing lightly.

A moan has us sitting up abruptly.

"Are they?" I ask Kass, knowing what is most likely going on in the other tent.

Another louder moan comes from across the campsite.

"They are." He chuckles, then stands, pulling me up with him. "Wanna go for a walk?"

I nod. "Definitely."

Kass zips up the tent and puts the cover on before leading me to a trail just a few campsites down from ours. Trees overhang the trail from either side, blocking out the late afternoon sun. It's beautiful, and I wish we could camp on the trail. I sigh happily as Kass squeezes my arm, smiling down at me.

"I love this," I tell him.

"I thought you would."

We walk in silence for a moment, then Kass stops and turns me toward him.

"Do you want a tent like Geo and Renee's?" he asks, then rushes to add, "I think there're enough sheets left over... and I could go into town to get—"

"Kass," I place a hand on his face, "I don't need all that."

He smiles, and his shoulders sag in relief.

"Besides, there's too much room in that tent. They'll be freezing tonight."

He laughs. "We'll be cuddled up close and warm in our tiny tent."

"Exactly," I tell him and stand on my tiptoes to give him a peck on the lips.

We turn and walk a few more steps before I break the silence.

"Although, if you forgot the s'mores, I'm gonna have to find a ride home. That's a deal breaker right there."

"I would never forget the s'mores," he counters in mock horror, a hand over his heart. "What is camping without s'mores?"

I laugh and bump into his shoulder. "C'mon, drama queen, we've got another four miles before this trail spits out at the lake." The trail actually goes all the way around at the lake, and there are several areas where you can get to the lake if you venture off just a bit, but the spot that leads directly to it is breathtaking and unlike any other.

"How do you know that?"

"Please," I tell him, "I've camped here with my parents hundreds of times. It's the closest campground that isn't run down or trashed."

Kass smiles. "So _that's_ why your dad recommended this place."

I look at him. "You asked my dad for a recommendation and thought I wouldn't know this place like the back of my hand?"

He laughs. "I guess you got me there."

When we return to the campsite, the sun has nearly set. Geo is stoking a fire while Renee sits at the picnic table wrapped in a blanket. March in Texas is cold at night but hot during the day. You could spend the daylight hours in shorts and a tank top but the evening in sweats.

Kass and I have been walking for the past hour or two, so we aren't cold in the least but the second we stop moving around, the chill will start to set in. I go to sit next to Renee, knowing I'll want to snatch up half the blanket soon.

"Where'd you guys go?" Renee asks.

"For a walk. The trail around the lake is gorgeous this time of year."

Renee smiles. "You get into any horizontal trouble out there? Will we need to get some poison ivy cream for your lady bits?"

"Gross," I tell her, looking completely appalled at what she said. "No, we didn't do it in the woods." I whisper the words "do it" and Renee's eyes widen.

"You're still a virgin?" she whisper-yells, and I cringe.

"Announce it to the whole park, why don't you?"

"Sorry." Renee glances at Kass. "I love Geo, but how on earth do you keep em' closed with a hunk like Kass?"

I laugh, and she smiles sheepishly.

After a moment, I shrug and reply, "It just hasn't happened. I'm sure he wants it to, but he hasn't pressured me."

Renee shakes her head. "He loves you. He'd probably wait decades for sex if he thought you weren't ready."

I look to Kass and admire his backside as he roasts a marshmallow over the fire. Geo bumps into him and the stick and marshmallow he's holding go into the flames, the marshmallow catching fire. Kass pulls it out and blows on it, sighing. He places his fingers just under the bottom of the burned, fluffy goodness, and I stand abruptly.

"Stop!" I yell, and Kass turns, nearly dropping the stick and marshmallow on the ground. I cringe. "They're better burnt."

Kass's brows furrow. "You hate burnt food."

I shrug. "I only like burnt marshmallows. I can't explain it. They just taste better that way." It melts my heart a little that he knows I hate burned food.

Kass walks over to the picnic table where he has a plate already made up with a graham cracker and chocolate. He places the marshmallow on top of the chocolate piece and puts a second graham cracker on top, holding the marshmallow firmly in place as he pulls the stick out. He licks the sticky residue off of his finger and _... Damn, I never knew a guy sucking his finger could be a turn on._

Kass holds the plate out to me with the s'more on top and kisses my lips quickly before turning to put another marshmallow on his stick. He jogs the short distance to the fire, and Geo says something to make him laugh. Moments later, Geo comes over with his lightly-browned marshmallow and makes a s'more for Renee. He gives her a quick kiss on the lips as he hands her the plate and goes to join Kass to make his own s'more.

"We have the best boyfriends," Renee sighs with a mouthful of s'mores.

I laugh and respond with an equally full mouth, "Yes, we do."

Isn't that cute? _Ryder thinks as he watches Kass and Laney eat their s'mores. Briefly, he wishes he could indulge in the camping treat, though he knows tasting it will pose a problem._

Kass rolls two large tree stump pieces over to the fire. He sits one of them up like a chair and pats it as he sits on the other one, sitting sideways beside it.

Laney smiles and gets up from her position at the picnic table with her friend. The blanket falls from her lap as she moves away from the table and closer to the fire. Closer to Kass.

Ryder sits in the spot Laney vacated and sighs. He'll never again get the opportunity to fall in love.

He places his chin in his hands, his elbows resting on the table. Taking in a big breath, he sighs, widening the space between his elbows. Two metal coffee cups—the blue ones with the white spots made especially for camping—roll off the table and onto the ground.

Renee stands and screams.

Ryder jerks up and falls backward off of the table as Renee glances around the campsite, looking for the person who knocked over their stuff. The wind isn't strong enough tonight to do it, and both Renee and Ryder know it. He stands from his place on the ground and begins to back away, dusting the dirt off of his backside.

The Archs are going to be pissed.

He is supposed to be unseen and unheard.

# Chapter 16

### Laney

I took the long way to school this morning, knowing it might be the only time this year I will find myself walking instead of riding with Kass. The one-lane bridge over the creek is breathtaking this time of year.

I walk up to the edge of the bridge and climb up on the concrete railing. My jeans scrape on the rough surface as I sit down, my legs hanging over the side. Massive trees form a canopy over the creek. It's low right now—we haven't gotten much rain—but the clear water is still beautiful as it trickles over the rocks.

The granola bar in my bag calls to me. Opening the package, I hear a car pulling up behind me. The bridge is large for one lane, but too small for two, so I know the driver will have plenty of room to drive by without hitting me so I don't pay any attention to it. But that's not what happens.

The car rolls to a stop, and Sasha gets out of a brand new truck. Never would've pegged her for one to drive a pick-up, though it _is_ adorned with hot pink stripes and logos from the maker. She must've special ordered those.

She stomps over to me, but I turn my attention back to the creek.

"He is mine!" she yells at me as she approaches where I sit on the bridge.

Sighing, I pull my legs up and over the other side of the railing and stand. "No, Sasha. He isn't."

Her fists clench at her sides before she lets out some sort of a scream-growl thing. My eyes widen when she comes at me. I've never been in a fight before. Sasha tackles me to the ground, and I try to push away from her with my legs but only succeed in moving both of us back.

"What the hell are you doing?" I ask her as she sits up, straddling me.

Her fist connects with my cheekbone and I cry out, pulling my arms up to shield myself from the onslaught of her hits. I groan as she hits my forearm especially hard. There has to be a way to get out from under her. I roll to the side, using all of my body weight to throw her off of me.

I stand, wiping at my cheek and coming away with blood. The bitch must be wearing a ring or something. I look at the backs of my arms and sure enough, they're bleeding, too.

Sasha screams and runs for me again, but I notice her attack too late. Just as I turn to look at her, Sasha's hands hit my sides and the concrete railing hits my thigh, my upper body tumbling over the side. My scream echoes off the trees as I fall, and I land on a bed of large rocks, the edge of my feet in the cold water. The last thought that flitters through my mind before I black out is, _I wish there would have been more rain._

My head throbs as I try to lift it off of the soft surface. Nothing happens. My eyes strain as I attempt to open my eyelids but once again, nothing happens.

"Where the hell were you when this happened?" an unfamiliar voice yells.

I don't hear any response.

"Where was her keeper?" the voice asks, slightly less angry than before.

"I don't know," another unfamiliar voice comments, then everything goes black again.

Dreams of white rooms and angels with gigantic wings fill my unconscious state for a while, until memories of what happened flood my mind. I was fighting Sasha—well, she was fighting me and I was trying not to die. I fell over the side of the bridge and landed on a bed of large rocks.

Beeping noises break through the fog in my mind. Maybe I'm in the hospital? That would be good considering Sasha beat the crap out of me and I've got the worst headache known to man.

"Is she going to wake up?" Kass asks.

Kass is here?

"The swelling has gone down, but she has a severe concussion. She should wake up, but it's hard to determine exactly when that will be."

I hear leather creak as someone sits down in a chair; air moves out from underneath the seat as the weight settles. A hand picks up mine and settles beneath it. The touch is warm and soothing, easily putting me to sleep. I try to squeeze the hand holding mine as I doze, but I don't know if the message actually made it to my fingers.

# Chapter 17

### Kass

No one can explain exactly what happened. Laney's face is a wealth of black, blue, and yellow, not to mention her left cheek is swollen to twice its size, but she landed on her right. That's easy to tell from her hair matted with blood and the bandage that's been wrapped around over a thick piece of gauze.

They could've at least cleaned up the blood a little better.

The nurse knocks on the door before she walks in, holding a rag and a bowl of warm water. She hands it over to me.

"Thank you," I tell her, and she leaves without a word.

Dipping the rag in the bowl, I attempt to clean her hair as best I can. Parts of the blood-caked strands are completely covered by the bandage, and I'm not going to mess with that. I saw what it looked like the last time they cleaned the wound. You'd think they could've cleaned the hair around it, too.

The water is a light shade of pink when I'm finished, and I use the rag to lightly wash her face. It's not really dirty, from what I can tell. Her face has been cleaned, but I hope the coolness from the rag will feel nice on the swollen flesh.

I kiss her on the forehead and place the bowl and rag in the sink after rinsing them out. Just as I turn to go back to my spot in the uncomfortable leather chair, Laney's parents walk in, carrying a bag of food for me.

"They finally cleaned the gunk out of her hair?" Laney's dad asks, staring at the face of his beautiful little girl.

I shake my head. "I asked them to bring me something to clean it with."

His gaze moves to mine and he nods his head in understanding. Laney's mom hands me the bag of food.

"Sit down and eat. She wouldn't want you starving yourself while here."

I nod, taking the bag from her. My parents have been here a couple of times to visit with Laney's parents and to attempt to get me to come home. They haven't succeeded on that one yet. She's only been here a few nights—and I probably stink from my lack of showering—but no one has complained, so I don't plan to leave any time soon.

My hand rests firmly in Laney's as I doze in the chair beside her hospital bed. Her fingers squeeze mine, and my eyes pop wide open as I sit up abruptly. I stare into the face of the girl I love as she opens her eyes for the first time in three days. A smile plays on her lips. Well, half a smile since one side of her face is too swollen to tell.

"Hey," she croaks.

"Hey," I voice quietly as I brush a stray hair from her face.

She tries to sit up and I grab under her arms to help her. Aside from her head, she doesn't have any major injuries on her body, mostly scrapes and bruises. She winces as I move her up the bed.

Laney looks around the room and back to me. "Was someone else here?"

My brows furrow. "Just our parents and me... Well, and the doctors and nurses."

She shakes her head but stops, putting her hand to her temple. "I could've sworn I heard someone talking."

I shrug. "Maybe you just heard us."

Laney sighs. "Yeah, I guess you're right."

# Chapter 18

### Kass

Saying goodbye to Laney so soon after they let her out of the hospital almost had me missing the boat for the Senior Trip. Each year, the senior class goes on a four-day cruise. It wasn't cheap, and my parents would have been mad if I'd showed up back home with Laney this afternoon and pissed their money away. They probably would've understood since Laney has only been out of the hospital for a little over a week, but they wouldn't have been happy about it, especially since Laney has returned to school and is almost completely healed.

I know what happens on this cruise; it happens every year. The entire class gets wasted. We'll be in international waters in just a few hours, and everyone will start downing alcohol. The teachers turn a blind eye to it, hoping we'll "get it out of our system" before prom and graduation next month. It doesn't work.

"Hey, man!" Geo slaps me on the shoulder as he walks over. "Renee said you almost missed the boat," he laughs.

I smile. "I couldn't leave without giving my girl a proper kiss." Despite our protestations, Laney made the trip down to wave me off.

Geo smiles wide. "That's what they make hotel rooms for. Renee and I came up last night and spent the evening and morning together."

"Laney's parents aren't letting her out of their sight right now," I tell him, and he nods in understanding.

"I get it. I'm worried about her, too, man," he smiles. "I think Renee has a girls' weekend planned for them."

"Your girlfriend is pretty awesome," I tell him with a smile and he gets a big cheesy grin on his face.

I shouldn't have had that last shot. I probably could've done without the three before it, too. I groan, and my head lolls to the side. There's a weight on my lap, and I vaguely wonder how Laney got on the boat.

A high-pitched voice whispers in my ear; I can't make out the words, just that they are seductive. I pull back from the voice that I know isn't Laney's. Squinting, I can make out the dyed blonde hair belonging to Sasha.

She smiles and leans in close. Her lips touch mine and I jerk back. A light flashes just before my back hits the floor. I'm still sitting in the chair and the edge of it digs into my back. Sasha is on top of me, and I struggle to get her off as I stand. That was not okay.

"What... the fuck?" I slur and Sasha giggles. "Thisss isn' funny," I tell her, and the words feel strange on my tongue. I smack my lips, and Sasha steps closer.

"Get away!" I yell, stumbling back over the chair, falling on top of it again in a heap.

Her brows draw together. "I thought you wanted this," she challenges, much too clearly for a drunk girl.

I shake my head, and the room spins. "Don't want... you," I get out just before the edge of my vision starts to darken.

"Up you go," Geo coaxes, coming into view. He holds his hand out to me, and I try to take it but miss his hand a few times. He chuckles, and I vaguely wonder why he isn't as wasted as I am.

"Did you see... that bitch tried to do?" I ask him, and he looks at me in confusion, trying to muddle through my incomplete sentences.

"Yeah, I saw, and so did everyone else," he grits out.

I pull up short, and he loses his grip. I sway into a wall _. When did we get to a hallway?_

"Wha's wrong with you?" I ask.

"You fucking kissed her, in front of everyone!" he yells. "The Kass I know never would've done that to Laney."

"I didn't kiss 'er," I argue, but he shakes his head, grabbing on to me and dragging me further down the hallway and closer to our room.

"It sure as hell looked like you did."

"She kiss me. I pulled back," I try to reason with him through my drunkenness.

He looks at me for a moment, as if he's trying to decide whether or not he believes me.

"That why you fell?"

I nod, then groan when my stomach lurches. Geo's eyes go wide and he releases me, hopping out of the way barely quick enough to avoid the stream of vomit flowing from my mouth.

He gags as the smell hits his nostrils and turns away as I finish emptying the contents of my stomach.

"C'mon," he groans, hefting me up. "You're getting in the shower. I'm not sleeping in the same room as that stench."

I glare at him—or at least I attempt to—and he laughs at me. Finally, after stopping for one more hurl fest, we make it to the room.

Geo drags me to the shower, turns it on full blast and shoves me into it. If I wasn't used to the beatings from practice, I'd probably bruise from where my side hits the tub. Cabinet doors slam as Geo looks for something. He comes back with a pair of rubber gloves. Why they keep rubber gloves in each room, I have no idea. He yanks my shirt over my head and throws it into a dirty laundry bag.

"Up," he urges, and helps me to stand. I sway into the tile wall of the shower when he lets go of me. "Can you take your jeans off?"

I fiddle with the button for a minute but can't get the damn thing undone.

"Fuck," Geo mutters. "You better not fucking remember this. No one better find out I undressed my best friend." He shakes his head as he unbuttons my pants. "You got vomit everywhere." He glares at me. "You," he points in my face, "are never drinking again! Never!"

I slip on the floor as he tugs the pants from under me. I go down hard but manage to not hit my head or break anything. Geo sighs. "Sorry, man."

"Thanks," I groan out, feeling marginally less drunk now that the water is beginning to cool. Geo looks at my pathetic ass lying in the tub for a long moment before he speaks.

"Think you can wash yourself? Because that's where I draw the line."

"Getting me naked wasn't where you drew the line?"

He flips me off. "You're not naked." The towel plops on top of the closed toilet lid before he leaves me to myself.

_What the hell was I thinking?_ I haven't gotten drunk like that since before we moved last year. My tolerance is a lot lower than it used to be, that's for sure. I just hope Laney doesn't hear about that damn kiss. At least not before I get the opportunity to explain.

Ryder watches from outside the window of Laney's house. He could go inside but he always feels unwelcome—like a ghost moving around in their house, unwanted.

" _How is the girl?"_

_Ryder startles and falls into the window, elbow first. The window cracks but doesn't shatter. He stares at Laney for a moment, wondering if she'd heard anything. She isn't supposed to think_ her _house is haunted._

The Arch sighs. "Are you really this clumsy? Or is it just when one of us are around?"

Ryder's cheeks darken and he looks to the ground, rubbing his elbow.

" _Fine. How is the girl? Is she ready?"_

Ryder's head snaps up and he shakes it back and forth vigorously.

" _No."_

" _Why not?" the Arch yells._

" _Her mental status would be compromised."_

The Arch nods his head as if he should've expected this. "Keep an eye on her and try not to leave her side," he commands. "The other girl does not need to suspect our presence, not yet."

" _How do we—" Ryder turns around and the Arch is gone. "They always leave right as I need to ask a question," he grumbles in dissatisfaction._

" _I really hope her keepers keep her from ascending." He sighs, knowing keepers aren't the best angels out there._

Ryder turns back to watch Laney. She hasn't moved a muscle, probably hasn't even blinked.

Kass better not fuck this up, _Ryder thinks._

# Chapter 19

### Laney

The TV has been on for several hours, but I have no clue what's been playing. My eyes are glued to the screen but none of it registers. The only thing flashing in front of my eyes right now are scenes of Kass and Sasha. I know she wants him; she hasn't tried to hide it, not even a little. I also know there will be alcohol on the boat. Kass has my trust, but Sasha? Not so much.

A knock on the front door pulls me from my zombie state on the couch. My parents are at the hardware store purchasing garden tools or plants or something of that nature. Dragging myself off of the couch, I answer the door, pausing when I notice the broken window across the room. _When did that happen?_

A smiling Renee greets me over the threshold. In one arm she holds a grocery bag and what looks like a makeup box in the other, backpack straps hang over her shoulders.

"I thought we could have a girls' night," she chirps excitedly.

I smile, despite my mood, and nod, moving away from the door so she can come in.

"I brought snacks," she holds up the grocery bag, "and stuff for mani-pedis." Her smile is wide and bright. She spends nearly all of her time with Geo and doesn't really have any girlfriends. This may be a new experience for the both of us.

"C'mon, we can go up to my room. My parents will be home soon."

She bounces on the balls of her feet a little before following me up the stairs. My parents had purchased a trundle bed when they adopted me, but the trundle part hasn't been used. Not once. I squeeze my eyes shut as we pull the trundle out from under the bed. Renee nudges me when it's completely pulled out, and I open my eyes. I sigh in relief when I take in the clean sheets and lack of dust or spiders. I was worried there for a minute.

Renee drops the grocery bag and makeup box on the bed and places her backpack on the floor next to it. She plops on top of the trundle mattress and pats the empty spot beside her. I smile, genuinely excited for my first sleepover. This is what I needed; otherwise, I'd still be downstairs thinking up terrible scenarios involving Kass and Sasha with far too little clothes on and far too much alcohol.

I sit down next to Renee and she opens the makeup box. It's filled to the brim with every nail polish color imaginable.

"Pick a color and I'll do your nails first, then you can do mine."

I reach in the box and pull out several different colors but in the end decide on a light purple.

"I've never done this before," I admit.

"Paint your nails?" she questions, looking up at me with her head tilted. It reminds me of how a dog looks when they don't understand what you're saying.

I laugh. "No, have a girls' night."

She smiles. "Me, either, but I've seen it on TV, so I know most of the stuff we're supposed to do."

We stare at each other for a moment before bursting out in laughter.

"We're kind of sad, aren't we?"

Renee shrugs. "No, we just prefer to spend time with our men." She waggles her eyebrows suggestively and I blush. Gasping, she narrows her eyes at me.

"You still haven't done it?"

I shake my head, and she sits up abruptly.

"Seriously?"

I shrug and shake my head.

"Girl, you don't want him looking somewhere else for that lovin.' I make sure Geo gets plenty from me so he has no reason to stray."

I roll my eyes. "Geo wouldn't stray if you were celibate."

Her expression darkens. "Don't be so sure." Renee goes back to painting my toes for a moment then stops. "I hope I can see him enough when he's gone next year so he isn't tempted to hump some co-ed at State." She jokes, but I can tell by the look in her eyes that she's terrified of that happening.

I touch her shoulder. "Geo loves you. He doesn't even look at other girls. I don't think you have anything to worry about where he's concerned."

She smiles. "Thanks. I hope you're right."

After all of our nails are painted and our facials have peeled off, we settle on each of our mattresses to watch a movie. Just as I start to doze, my phone pings with an incoming text. I sit up much too quickly, and Renee giggles.

"Settle down. It's probably just Kass wishing you sweet dreams."

I smile, knowing that's most likely the case but as I turn on the screen to my cell phone, my smile falls. It isn't a text, and it isn't from Kass. Sasha sent me a picture—one I know Kass would never want me to see.

"You okay?" Renee asks, sitting up on the mattress. "Is it Kass?"

I cover my face with one hand and turn the phone so she can see the picture with the other.

"Maybe she staged it. That might not really be Kass."

"He's wearing the letterman's jacket from his last school, and those lips plastered to hers? I'd know those lips anywhere," I tell her, a sob breaking free at the end.

Renee gets up from her mattress and slides under the covers next to me. She pulls me in for a hug and lets me cry it out on her shoulder. After my tears have dried and my breathing is almost normal again, I pull away, embarrassed.

"I think you should talk to Kass before you jump to conclusions."

"How can I deny what the picture shows? Better yet, how can _he_ deny it?" I ask her, trying to keep my breathing under control.

Renee sighs and rolls over to face the ceiling, and I do the same." I just think you should hear him out. Sasha's a bitch, and she'd go to great lengths to get you to think Kass cheated."

I nod, but I know she doesn't see it. The credits are playing on the TV screen and the room is nearly completely dark. I grab the remote and turn the TV off. Renee doesn't go back to her mattress, and I'm glad. I feel better knowing I'm not completely alone tonight.

# Chapter 20

### Kass

Laney stands with my parents as the ship docks and lets us out; her face is nearly completely healed. I run from the boat right to her, scooping her up in my arms. Her body stiffens, so I loosen my grip, hoping I didn't hurt her. Maybe she's still a little sore. I spin her around, and she yells my name. It's a tad less playful than I expected, so I put her down before hugging my mom and dad. I missed all of them this weekend; it has me a little worried for next fall.

My dad carries my bag even though I am fully capable. Mom chatters along, asking question after question about the cruise. She worked several overtime shifts to make sure we could afford it, and I thank her several times.

"It was a blast. Geo and I tormented everyone on the boat." I give her a huge smile.

"You boys better not have gotten into any trouble," she admonishes, and Laney snorts from behind her.

Laney's been distant this whole time, keeping away from the three of us, staying several feet behind us. I turn to look at her, but she avoids making eye contact. I don't want to get into anything with her in front of my parents, so I leave it be for now.

The drive home isn't much better. Laney and I sit in the back seat, but she stays as far away from me as she can. I can't figure out what could possibly have happened to put such a wedge between us while I was gone. If she's this mad, why did she even come to pick me up? I notice my mom smiling broadly in the rearview mirror, and I know exactly why she came. Whatever is going on, she doesn't want them to know.

"I'll be in soon," I tell my parents as we all get out of the car. "I'm going to walk Laney to her house." She only lives next door, but this is nothing new for me. I always walk her to her door and give her a kiss before returning home.

"What's going on?" I implore, jogging to catch up to her.

She stops and turns, and I nearly run her over.

"You and Sasha," she barks.

I rear back. "What?"

Laney fishes in her purse for a moment, muttering in frustration as she struggles to find what she's looking for. Finally, she pulls out her cell phone and shoves it in my face.

I'm staring at a picture of me, sitting at a table in the bar on the cruise ship. Sasha is in my lap, her lips firmly placed on mine. _That's what the fucking flash was that night._

"I can explain," I tell her, holding my hands up.

Her eyes widen. "So it really happened? You really kissed her?"

I start shaking my head vigorously, and she backs away. "I was completely wasted. She was on my lap for maybe a second, and the moment her lips touched mine, I reared back and knocked us both on the floor. Look," I lift my shirt and turn so she can see my side, "I landed on a pool ball when I fell."

Laney stares at the bruise marring my back for a moment. Her shoulders fall, deflated.

"I didn't want to believe it."

I move closer, hoping she doesn't back up again. Placing my hands on her face, I feel her tremble. She looks up at me when I pull at her chin.

"No one will ever be you. No one will ever have my heart like you do. I promise, I will never get that drunk again, and I promise _nothing_ happened that night. Nothing other than her putting her lips on mine and me pulling back. I would never do anything to hurt you. Never."

Laney leans in, and I wrap my arms around her tightly as she cries into my chest. I hate what Sasha has done to her, what she's done to us. This is the last straw.

# Chapter 21

### Laney

Kass brushes a stray hair from my face and leans down. I smile deviously and take off for the swings, dodging his kiss.

The park is one only to be used during the day and there are no lights, just the moon, but we've set up a nice area to stargaze.

I run under the swings, pushing them aside so they sway from the force. Kass is mere inches from me, and a smile lights up my face, knowing what's coming next. He grabs me around the waist and swings me up in the air. Laughter flies from my mouth, and a light comes on in one of the houses across the park. Kass sets me down on the ground, and we run for the more wooded area where our pallet of blankets lies.

Both of us are breathing hard as we fall to the pile on the ground. I tilt my head so I can see Kass's face. He smiles down at me as I gently push his hair back off his forehead. My fingers slide through the short hair at the back of his neck, and he leans down to press his lips to mine.

The kiss is gentle at first—just the sliding of lips on lips—but then his tongue traces the seam of my mouth, and I open for him, allowing him to take the kiss further. It turns from slow and sensual to hurried and urgent. His hands trail down my hips, and I shiver.

I pull on his shirt, and he breaks the kiss long enough to pull it over his head. Kass's lips are back on mine in seconds and this time, I'm the one asking for entrance. He opens his mouth, and I tangle our tongues together, releasing a moan as I go.

His lips smile against mine as his hands begin to roam under the hem of my dress. I wore it on purpose, hoping this night would be as special as I envisioned. His hand goes higher and higher and when he notices the lack of resistance where I should be wearing panties, he pulls his lips from mine. He stares deep into my eyes, his darting from one eye to the other, and I smile.

"Are you sure?" he asks, breathless.

I nod and hope it doesn't come across as too eager or desperate. "Yes."

He crashes his lips to mine, and the skin beneath my dress is momentarily forgotten in his excitement.

Afterward, he collapses on me with a sigh. That was amazing and nothing like I'd been told your first time could be. Kass was the perfect gentleman, always making sure I was comfortable and as close to pain free as possible.

"Is it always like this?" I ask, trailing a finger down the side of his neck as I face him beneath the blanket we'd brought with us.

"With you, it will be."

He smiles and presses a quick kiss to my lips.

"I love you, Laney, so much."

"I love you, too."

# Chapter 22

### Kass

I didn't want to drop Laney off, but we'd already far surpassed her curfew and her parents are probably pissed. It was worth it. Tonight, my girl gave me the most precious gift. She gave me herself, fully, completely, without a single reservation. She will never give that to anyone else. Never.

Just as I'm pulling away from a kiss that is completely inappropriate for standing on her parents' doorstep, both our phones chime. Her brows furrow as she looks at me before digging in her purse to find her phone.

"It's from Sasha," she gasps, and her hand flies over her mouth. I find myself digging in my pocket for my phone.

The screen comes on and I pull up my messages. Sitting in my inbox are pictures of Laney and me. Tonight. Having sex in the park.

"Shit."

"What if she sent these to everyone?" Laney asks.

I run my left hand through my hair as Laney's phone chimes again.

Sasha: Park. 15 minutes.

Laney looks at the screen on her phone. "Maybe I can convince her to delete the pictures?"

"You're not going anywhere. I'll go meet her and make damn sure she doesn't have a way to send the pictures out."

Laney says something behind me, but I'm already getting in my truck.

My left leg bounces as I drive, speeding down the road, barely paying attention to what I'm doing when I reach the one-lane bridge. It's late and I don't expect anyone else to be out this way, so I race toward the park, not slowing down for the bridge. Immediately, I know it's a mistake.

Bright headlights fill my windshield, and there's no way for me to slow down in time to miss hitting the brand new black truck with pink stripes. I think I know that truck but then decide it's unimportant. The pick-up speeds up and appears to deliberately veer into my side of the bridge. The grill slams into the side of my truck, sending me over the short edge of the bridge and tumbling into the creek below.

Though we've been stuck in a drought, this part of the creek is still high. Laney could've drowned had she landed just a little further back that day on the bridge.

The water rushes past as the side of my truck breaks the ripples of the rapids. The cold water floods inside, filling the floorboard of the truck and my shoes, and my truck sinks faster than I would have thought possible. I roll the window down as fast as I can, hoping I can swim out.

A lightning bolt strikes far too close for comfort, and I am momentarily distracted from trying to save myself. It wasn't supposed to storm tonight. Ice cold water pulls my attention as the truck continues to fill.

A shiver wracks my entire body, and my hands shake as I try to unbuckle my seatbelt. The truck is old, and the belt sticks on most days, but I hoped I'd be lucky enough for today to be one of the few that it pulls away easily. It's not. I couldn't be that lucky.

With water up to my neck, the only thing flashing through my mind is how much I love Laney and how destroyed she will be when she finds out I'm dead. Seconds before darkness takes over, it all becomes too much, and I'm struck with the memory of where I've seen that truck. It's been parked in the front row of the parking lot at school for the last few weeks. I remember seeing Sasha step out of it each morning as I drove around looking for a place to park. The bitch has finally succeeded in taking me from Laney.

My eyes open to bright, white light. _The hospital?_ I strain to hear the usual beeping noises of a hospital but am met with silence. I turn my head from side to side; the room is completely white with no doors or windows. The bed I'm lying on is also white, and I'm dressed in a white t-shirt and white pants. _Why is everything so white?_

"Good. You're awake." My head jerks to the right to see a man—no, an angel—walk through a door. The door closes, and I look around the man but all I see is a solid white wall. _Where the hell did the door come from and why is it gone?_

The bed dips and squeaks as the man sits beside me, his hands clasped in his lap.

"How are you feeling?" he asks.

I think about that for a moment before answering. "Fine, I guess."

"Good, good." He smiles. "Do you know where you are?"

"A hospital?"

He chuckles as if I'd made a funny joke. "You're in Heaven, Kassidy."

"Kassidy?" I question.

"Ah, right. Most call you Kass."

"Kass." The nickname sounds foreign on my lips.

He nods. "That's your name."

"Okay."

Why the hell don't I remember my own name?

"Do you remember anything?"

I sit there and stare at the man I've never seen, though I don't know where that knowledge stems from. I search my mind, coming up blank. I know words, languages, but I have no memory of me or any other person... ever. As far as I know, he's the first I've ever seen. No, that's not right. People don't have wings—I _do_ know that—and his stand large and proud behind him, keeping me from seeing the other side of the room.

I shake my head, and he smiles.

"I trust you can walk."

I sit up and slide to the edge of the bed, standing slowly to catch my bearings.

"Good. I'll take you to the training room. Welcome to the team."

A mirror appears before me as the man moves out of my sight, and I see myself for the first time. Behind me are wings identical to his but smaller in size. _What. The. Hell?_

# Chapter 23

### Laney

Last night was amazing. Well, all the parts of it I got to spend with Kass, not so much the part where Sasha sent us pictures of the night. My parents were pissed when I didn't get home until after one in the morning. My curfew has always been eleven thirty, and Kass and I both know that, but we got a little carried away. Hopefully, we can get a little carried away this morning while my parents are at the market.

I get up and stretch, finding muscles I never knew existed are sore. Gloriously sore. I head to the bathroom and stare at myself in the mirror. Hickeys mar the skin of my stomach—red splotches where Kass sucked and licked. It's as if I can feel his lips still there, paying extra attention to my breasts that are now a nice shade of reddish-pink. I rub the sore skin and feel a tightness in my core. A smile lights up my face; I stop wasting time and hop in the shower.

It takes me longer than it should to pick out an outfit. Kass has seen me completely naked, for Christ's sakes. What the hell does it matter what I wear? I plan to get naked again rather quickly if I've got anything to say about it. I decide on a pair of cut-off jean shorts and a tank top. My breasts are a little large to be going out without a bra, but Kass is the only one who is going to see me and, well, that's kind of the point.

I skip down the steps leading off my porch and walk across the grass between our houses. I slow a little as I notice there aren't any cars in the driveway in front of his house, not even his truck. _Is he not home?_ He didn't tell me about having plans today. In fact, just last night he was telling me he couldn't wait to see me again this morning.

I take note of the windows with the blinds open when I walk across the empty driveway and up to the house. It looks empty from outside. Completely empty. I can't see a stitch of furniture in there. Maybe it's a trick of the light. Yeah, that has to be it. No one can move an entire house, especially one of this size, overnight. I would have at least heard the noise if they'd tried.

The front door is slightly ajar, so I place my hand on the door and press gently, revealing what I had noticed from outside. The house is empty. I walk inside, looking at every possible corner of every single room, searching for something. Searching for some clue they didn't pack up and leave in the middle of the night. That Kass didn't leave me without so much as a hint or a goodbye.

No.

No way.

He wouldn't.

He said he loved me.

He made love to me.

He couldn't have left me.

I slide down the wall in the living room, my head in my hands, tears dripping to the hardwood floor. I don't know how long I sit here crying, but at some point I fall asleep.

"This wasn't supposed to happen!"

"I know. There wasn't anything I could have done to prevent it."

It sounds as if the island in the kitchen has been crumbled to rubble. I struggle to open my eyes but sleep keeps them matted together.

"The girl has ascended. It's too late now."

The voices trail off as I finally get my eyes open.

"Hello?" I call, and when there is no answer, the events of this morning come flooding back.

I run back through the house and out the front door, slamming it behind me. I lose a flip-flop running through the yard and stumble, but I don't stop. I swing by the kitchen and dig through the silverware drawer before pulling out a butter knife. Taking the stairs two at a time, I place the knife in the door jamb of my parents' room until I hear the lock click.

I open the door and begin searching their room for my cell phone. No cell phone for a week is part of the punishment for breaking curfew. I find a few things I'd rather not have found under my parents' bed and high up in their closet, but I don't find the cell phone. _Where the hell did they put it?_ I open my mother's bedside table, and next to a vibrator I wish I could unsee, sits my phone. I grab it, thankful the toy is still encased in its plastic packaging.

I slide my finger across the screen and dial Kass's number. It rings and rings until a voice I've never in my life heard picks up.

"Kass?" I question.

"Sorry, wrong number."

The line goes dead, and I drop the phone from my hand.

He left me. I'm alone. I feel the second my heart rips into pieces, and I crumble to the floor. My hands shake and sobs rip from my mouth as I scratch and pull at my hair.

He. Left. Me.

" _Who are you?" Kass asks._

" _I'm Laney's keeper," Ryder fumes, face red in anger._ How could he do this to her? _The Archs are pissed. Her mental status is completely screwed, and she is not even close to being able to ascend_. They pulled me from her, saddling me with some other pre-Ascent. It's all his fault, but the Archs blame me.

" _Who?"_

Shit. _"Never mind."_

Ryder always forgets about the memory sweep. Sometimes he thinks they may have over juiced him because he has a hard time remembering things from his life as a keeper for the angels.

He won't forget Laney, though. At least not for several years, after he's given a new assignment.

Her broken heart and sadness will stick with him long after her face is lost in the memories he held before the sweep.

_Ryder's fist pulls back of its own accord and plunges right into Kass's face_. Maybe I have an issue with violence, _Ryder thinks as his fists clench tighter._

Sasha ascended, and there was nothing he could do to stop it.

Grab The Ascension of Laney, the next book in the series, for FREE here: <https://instafreebie.com/free/1J07K>

### Glossary

Arch – an archangel

Ascent – a person with the ability to control the elements. A pairing of two Ascent have a 98% chance of producing an Ascent. A pairing of an Ascent and a human have a 50% chance of producing an Ascent. Laney is the only known Ascent to be descended from an Ascent and an angel.

Keeper – the lowest level of angels tasked with watching pre-ascent until they've matured enough to ascend into a full-blown Ascent.

### Acknowledgments

My husband, my biggest supporter, and financial investor all in one. I couldn't have done any of this without you, and not just because of all the inspiration you give me.

For my biggest cheerleaders, mom and dad, your love and constant encouragement mean the world to me and I might have never chased my dream without it.

Renee, you are my other half and though we joke that together we make one good person, you are one of the most amazing people I've had the pleasure of calling my friend.

Amy M, thank you for being there whenever I need you and for the countless hours of swag making. I've got tons more for us to work on... lol.

Amy W, I wouldn't have time to write without you. You take so much off of my shoulders, I don't know what I would do without you! Thank you for taking part of the load and freeing me up some writing time!

Regina, you are not only my designer but you are one of the few people in this world of authoring who I trust implicitly. You have never steered me wrong and I cherish every bit of advice or direction you've given me.

PollyAnna, I might've never sold another book without you but with you, I may be able to turn this into a full time career. Thank you for showing me the possibilities and that I can reach any goal!

Thank you to the girls at work for giving my books a chance and being my cheerleaders. It means the world to me that you've read them?

All the readers and authors and friends in Hack's Pack, I love every minute I get to spend with you guys. Your encouragement and all around goodness give me hope that one day this will be my day job. This book might not've made it without you all!

Special Thanks:

Regina Wamba of Mae I Design, my cover designer

Tiffany Fox of Beyond DEF Lit, my editor

C. Streetlights, my content editor

Jennifer Fowler of Pro Author Swag, my formatter and provider of all things promotional

Gel Ytayz of Tempting Illustrations, my teaser designer

Back Cover KLPS, my book trailer creators

### Also by Kris Hack

The Ascent Series

Love and Angels

The Ascension of Laney

The Fall of Kass

The Resurrection of Ryan

The Explosion of Lucas (coming soon)

### About the Author

I love to read, write, and go camping, especially if it's near a beach somewhere. My furbabies and hubby love the water and so do I! We go camping whenever we can and have a blast cuddling by the fire, eating s'mores and listening to the waves crash against the shore.

Reading is a long time passion of mine and I've always had trouble ending the books when I close them. Characters and scenarios would flow through my mind, further keeping me from much needed sleep. After a time, my own characters began running through my head, demanding to have their stories told.

I am the author of the Ascent series, my first published novel is The Ascension of Laney, a New Adult Paranormal Romance.

Join my Book Club

Sign up to receive the lastest news about releases and all the happenings

Website | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest | Periscope
