

Love Click!

### By Jennifer McArthur

## Chapter 1

"KIRSTY UP NOW!" my mum shouted, I moaned in response then felt my body suddenly get cold, my covers had been taken of me. "MUM!" I said and she laughed, I opened my eyes to look at her and she just laughed and walked away. I got up and had a shower and got ready for school. I went to Broad-view High, I was in my last year there and we were just back from our Christmas holidays, we had been at school for two weeks now so the Christmas talk was over.

I got dressed in the school uniform, my shirt and tie which was green,blue and white, my black jeans and black converse. I walked downstairs to see my mum eating her toast and reading the paper, one thing about my mum is she was a teacher at my school, she was the head of English. I made some toast and took a bite when my mum looked up and sighed "what?" I asked and she shook her head " nothing sweetie!" I looked at her "sure?" I asked and she nodded "how are you today?" I looked down " no nightmare I guess that's good!" I looked up and she smiled "it will get easier!" I nodded. A horn went and I looked out the window to see Jake, I sighed " it will be okay, you'll get use to things again!" my mum said and I nodded, I grabbed my phone and bag and walked out to Jakes car "Hey girlfriend!" he said and I laughed " hey bitch!" I said and he gasped " uh im insulted!" he said and I laughed, I shut the door and I tensed up a bit " you sure you okay with me picking you up?" he asked and I nodded " fine." I said, he sighed and drove us to school.

We arrived at school on time as always. it was our break and Jake was trying to get me to eat his HE cooking " please Kat, its yummy!" he said, we were outside my locker, I was getting my English stuff, I sighed "gimmie it!" I said, he passed me the pasta, I took a bit and smiled " its okay I guess could do with flavour!" he nodded " sure, thanks!" he said and I laughed a little. The bell went and I walked to my mums class, she was my English teacher. She always expected me to deliver excellent work but if we were home and I didn't know something I would annoy her and ask pointless question. I walked into class and saw a substitute there, I sat down and started feeling a bit sick, I didn't feel as if I was going to be sick so I shrugged it off.

Class finished and I was feeling terrible, I had a headache, I felt like I was going to be sick and when I did I got cold and I felt like the world was spinning at 300mph. I walked to chemistry and sat down, there was a knock on the door and the heads receptionist came in, she looked at me "Kirsty, the head wants to talk to you, you'll need your stuff!" she said and left, I grabbed my bag and walked slowly to his office. When I got there I banged on his door "come-in!" he said and I went in to see my mum, my lawyer, a women about my mums age and a younger women who looked about in her twenties. I sat down and held my hand to my head cos' it felt like it could fall off "sweetie are you okay?" my mum asked concerned " I feel like death, on a good day!" I said and she looked at me concerned " is this about D-Drake?" I asked and she shook her head " no sweetie this is different!" I nodded but regretted it " then what?" I asked and she sighed " I think your to ill to talk we'll leave it ti-" I stopped her " not unless you want me to be sick over you then I suggest you talk!" I said and she rolled her eyes, the head teacher cleared his throat and I turned to him.

He smiled at my mum and she sat back in her seat and faced him " okay Kirsty, your eighteen in three weeks so its now we tell you about this, when your dad was younger he-" I stopped him " again I hate to be rude and interrupt but could someone, anyone get to the point please!" I said and he nodded and I heard my mum sigh " okay sweetie, your dad signed a document putting you in an arranged marriage, which is why your here now, this is Chloe Willis and her daughter Megan. Your dad signed the document with Megans dad!" I looked at her, normally people would be mad at this but im not purely for two reasons, One- im to ill to yell and Two- where would it get you, Megan seems nice and it helps that im gay.

I turned to Megan and smiled and she smiled at me back " I would stand and shake your hand but I have a feeling the ground would want me to give it a hug!" meaning I would faint, she laughed " I wont hold it against you!" she said and I smiled " now if you don't mind im of to spew my insides out!" I said and ran out to the toilet, luckily they weren't far, when I got there I went in the first one that was free and let it rip. When I was done, I went to the sink and sprayed water on my face, I didn't feel any better but I felt really dizzy, all of a sudden I felt my eyes closing and it was black, I had fainted.

I woke up to my alarm going off, I moaned and pushed it away, I turned in my bed and shut my eyes that was until I felt my head explode in pain."sweetie?" my mum asked I opened my eyes and smiled " why does my head feel like it just exploded?" I asked and she laughed a little " you fainted in the toilets you must have hit your head!" I smiled " well okay then, tell me I remember a conversation in the heads office, that did happen im not going mad?" she laughed a bit " yes sweetie that happened!" I nodded but regretted. I sat up a bit to see everyone in my room "well hello!" I said, Megan and her mum were sitting beside each other and my mum sat beside Mrs Willis. The door-bell went and my mum went and answered it and I turned to Megan " this makes a good first impression doesn't it, me being ill!" I said and she laughed a bit " sure does, could be worse though!" she said and I laughed a bit. My mum came back in my room " sweetie the doctor's here!" she said and I looked at her " who?" I asked and she sighed " Doctor Gibby was away, its okay sweetie!" I started to panic, the doctor came in and he was a middle aged man, he was fairly chubby and had a beard and glasses"we'll leave you to it!" Mrs Willis said and Megan and her left, my mum was about to leave but I stopped her " mum stay!" is said and she frowned " sweetie its okay!" I shook my head " please?" I asked, she took the doctor aside and she whispered in his ear, his eyes widened and he looked at me. He walked a bit closer " Kirsty its okay I wont hurt you!" he said , I sighed and nodded.

He walked over to me and sat on the edge of the bed, he opened his bag and got his stethoscope out and listened to my heart, he took some notes and took my temperature as well, he looked into my eyes with a flashy torch and took my blood pressure. He got up and turned to my mum " its just some food poisoning!" he said and my mum sighed a sigh of relief " so why did she faint?" she asked and he turned to me " I think she just needs to eat a bit more!" he said and my mum nodded, she showed him out and I lay back down, I heard my mum come back in and she walked round the bed to see me " im sorry sweetie I couldn't get Doctor Gibby!" she said and I nodded " its fine, im going to go to sleep!" I said and she nodded, she went away and I went for a nap.

The next few days I wasn't any better and I was sick of staying in my bed so I planned on going to school. I knew my mum would never let me so once I knew she was away I would get ready. I heard the door bang shut and I got up and got dressed, I walked downstairs and I took some aspirin and put some in my bag for the day, I got my phone and listened to music and walked to school. I was one of those people who would rather do something than stay in bed all day and I loved school, I could easily study so I hated being away from it. I got to school and I had a free period first so I went to the library, to be greeted by Jake. He walked up to me and shook his head " you should be off!" he said and I sighed " I was bored!" I said, I took my book out and sat at one of the tables, Jake sat beside me and I flinched " ohhh, sorry, sorry I forgot!" he said and moved to another seat but he was still close to me, I smiled " thanks!" I said and he nodded.

Fifteen minutes to the bell and I packed my stuff away, Jake had been chatting up the new boy for most of the period so I didn't tell him I was leaving. I got to my locker and I heard my name being called "Kirsty!" it was Jake, he turned the corner and looked at me "hen you should be at home!" he said while walking up to me, I opened my locker and sighed "I'd rather be here!"he sighed and shook his head "hey Miss Willis!" I looked at him and saw he was waving at someone, I turned to see him waving at Megan she looked at me shocked and I looked at her " what are you doing here?" I asked and she walked over to me " could ask you the same thing, your suppose to be in bed!" she said " what are you doing here, and I'd rather be here!" she shook her head " I work here!" I looked at her " you cant I'm a student here!" I said and she smiled " I know and I can and I am!" I sighed and Jake interrupted us " hold the phone!" he put his hand on my shoulder and I flinched " oh, sorry, sorry I forget I keep doing that don't I, sorry Kirsty!" he said and I forced a smile " its fine just try not to touch me!" I said with a slight laugh he nodded " anyway what's going on here!?" he asked

" nothing she just knows my mum!" he raised an eyebrow " oh really?"he asked " because you scratched your ear!" he said and I sighed "fuck you Jake hardwood and by the way your last names sexual!" he fake gasped " you said you wouldn't mention it!" I heard Megan laugh " come on you my class Jake could you go get her mum!" I looked at her " no she doesn't know im here, I'll be dead and im sure you don't want that!" she thought about it " maybe!" I looked at her " gee thanks!" she laughed.

We went into her class and Jake followed us " okay before I go can one of you tell me what's going on?" he asked, I sat in a seat and Megan sat beside me while Jake stood in front, I turned to Megan and she looked at me and I looked at where she was sitting and tensed up." up to you?" I said and she smiled "don't mind!" I smiled and turned to Jake " were getting married!" he looked at me shocked "ahhhh!" he said while jumping up and down "shush!" I said and I covered his mouth with my hand " now im gonna let go and your not to scream okay?" I said and he nodded "wait are you licking my hand?" I asked and he laughed a bit, I let go and wiped it clean "your hand tastes like chocolate!" he said and I just stared at him " so I want to when and where you two met!" he said pulling a chair over " yesterday and the heads office!" I said and he raised an eyebrow "its an arranged marriage!" I said and he looked between us both " I didn't think your mum would agree to that!" he said and I shook my head "dad!" he sighed and nodded " ahhh" he said and I nodded " Jake could you go get her mum she should really be at home!" Megan said and Jake smiled " see I told you, you should be at home!" he said " well you gave me food poisoning so I'd shut up or Megans gonna have a criminal as a fiancé who's best friend was murdered!" he glared at me and left.

I sat back down but shifted my chair a bit so I was further from Megan, I saw she noticed but thankfully she didn't ask, my mum came in and she was pissed " what on earth are you doing here?" she asked, she had her hand on her hip and was standing beside Jake "I was bored at home!" I said and she shook her head " your ill your suppose to be in bed!" she was right I was ill I wasn't any better than yesterday besides I wasn't sick today "beds are for sleeping and having sex in and Jake you take that any further you will be more dead than you already are!" he had a smile on his face and held his hands up in surrender, my mum shook her head " right your going home!" I sighed "fine!" I said, she turned to Jake " dear have you passed your test?" she asked and he looked away " I may have failed!" he said and I laughed " Kirsty you shut your mouth!" he said and I laughed more, my mum sighed again "im not having you drive!" she said and I just nodded " oh my mum can take her, im sure she wont mind!" Megan said and my mum nodded " I don't want to be a bother!" I said and she brought her phone out and called her mum. It was a short conversation but her mum was coming for me, I felt as if I was going to be sick again " excuse me!" I said and ran to the toilets, I was sick again and when I was done, I turned and saw Megan "ahhh!" I said and I flinched again, I caught my breath and she looked at me concerned " you flinch a lot are you okay?" she asked, I didn't want to tell her just yet it was to painful, I nodded and I washed my face.

I waited outside with Megan and my mum until Chloe came and picked me up, when she did I sat in the front seat of her car and she drove me home " thank you so much for this!" I said and she laughed a little " don't worry about it hen it gets me out the house!" I smiled " so how you feeling?" she asked " not to good, I didn't want to stay in bed so I went to school without telling my mum!" she laughed " you forgot your mum was a teacher then!" I nodded. We arrived at my house and Chloe made sure I was in okay and she called my mum to tell her I was home safe and she left. I fell asleep as soon as I was tucked in.

## Chapter 2

Three days later I was better but unfortunately it was a Saturday so no school but plenty of studies to do. I was in my room listening to music, I only listened to classical music, call me weird I don't care but I cant get enough of it. I was doing my English essay my mum had given me, how nice of her. I was trying to think of a subject to write about when there was knock on my door, I wondered who it was because normally my mum just barged in "open!" I said and turned around and I saw Megan, I smiled "hey what's up?" I asked and she came and sat on my bed " my mum is down stairs talking to your mum and I was bored, heard the music and thought I'd say hi!" I laughed a little " well hi!" I said and she laughed a little. She looked around a bit " didn't know you liked classical?" she said and I nodded " well in technical terms you didn't know much about me!" she laughed and nodded "well noted!" I laughed " but eh... yeah I like it cant get enough of it!" she nodded " so what music do you like?" I asked " anything new, im not the person to stick to one band or singer I like ranges!" I nodded " that's good when it comes to Jake, he hates it if you like a different band than him!" she laughed " im presuming Jakes your friend then!" I nodded "have been for ages and if you haven't guessed he's gay!" she laughed " I did have a hunch!" I laughed " yeah it was funny cos' we were good friends and he was this macho guy you know the football the muscles and the action films then when I came out and no one really cared over night he went to fashion to romantic movies to drooling over men with six packs!" she laughed "he suits it though!" I nodded.

I smiled at her " would you go on a date with me?" I asked, im marrying her, I might as well get to know her and I really like her, she smiled and nodded " okay" I smiled, I had an idea of what I wanted to do for our date " great!, should let you know then for our date you don't need to dress to fancy though!" she nodded "that saves some time then!" I laughed a little. We talked for a bit more then she noticed my comics " you collect comics?" she asked pointing to the stack of thirty comics beside my desk "well no I draw them!" I looked at her and she looked shocked " do you mind if I look at one?" she asked and I shook my head " go ahead!" I said and she took the first one on the pile, it was my zombie one, I liked that one a lot but my favourite was my futuristic ones. She smiled when she looked through it " the detail in this is really good!" she said and I smiled a bit " I try!" I said and she laughed a bit and she went to hand me it back "keep it!" I said and she smiled "what?" she asked and I nodded " I have plenty more and I don't mind!" she smiled " thanks!" I smiled.

"Megan, home!" my mum shouted I laughed a little and walked with her downstairs, my mum and Mrs Willis were talking at the door, when we got down they turned to us " what were you two doing?" my mum asked and I shook my head " twenty questions!" I said and Megan laughed a bit. I waved bye to Megan and her mum and they left, and I went back to my studying.

I was just about ready, I was wearing a comical top, I had mentioned not to wear anything to fancy so I went and put my t shirt on that's design is as if your wearing a suit. I was also wearing my black skinny jeans and red converse, I had let my hair lay low after straightening it. I walked downstairs to see my mum marking on the couch "ha ha you have marking!" I said while going into the kitchen for my wallet "well you have studying, why aren't you doing it?" she asked and I laughed " since when did you want to now when I had sex!" she sighed and I walked back through "not what I meant!" she said and looked at me "where are you going?" she asked and I sighed "im taking Megan out for a date!" she smiled "you two hit it off?" she asked and I nodded "she seems nice, I quite like her!" she smiled then her face turned serious " babes I know this seems big and I know you went through a lot but you should think about telling her soon, at least about the nightmares!"

I sighed and looked down " I know you mean well mum but I need to know her first and I know things are arranged but I still need to know her!" I looked up and she nodded " im very proud of you baby!" she said and I smiled " so proud you'll lend me twenty?" she sighed and walked over to her bag, she turned to me and handed me the money " treat her well now shoot!" I smiled and took the car keys and went to go get Megan.

I went to her house and parked outside the door, she was staying in Scotland and moved here for her new job so she was staying with her mum she was looking for a place until her mum told her about the marriage. I walked up to her door and knocked, on the way I had bought a single rose and I had it in my hand. The door swung open and a tall young man opened the door, he looked very gruff and scary "H-hi, is Megan there!" I managed to say, I had tensed up, I heard someone running down the stairs and I noticed it was Mrs Willis " oh hello dear, come on in, Mark move your arse!" I smiled and hesitantly walked in, Mark shut the door behind me and I flinched but I was glad they didn't notice " Mark this is Kirsty, Kirsty this is Mark, Megans friend from school!" his face changed to a smile and he put his hand out for me to shake, I sighed and shook his hand " so your the lucky girl!" he said with a big warm smile, I smiled and nodded " she'll be down in a minute!" Mrs Willis said while taking me into the living room.

I looked around and smiled, it looked like a family home. " so your Kirsty then?" Mark asked, we were standing about in awkward silence " yeah, yeah I am!" I said and he nodded " when she told me I was a bit shocked you were okay with it being arranged!" he said and I shrugged " well I had two options yell at my mum for something she didn't do or accept it and get to know Megan, I think I made the right choice!" I said and he laughed a bit, he nodded" I think you did to!" at that point Megan came down and she looked between us all " well this is cosy!" she said and we all laughed a bit " you ready?" I asked and she nodded, she was in a fancy top which was blue and some navy blue jeans, I smiled and followed her to the door, she opened it and took a jacket and we went outside to my car.

I opened the door for her and gave her, her rose she smiled and thanked me. I walked round to the other side and took a deep breath " you can do it!" I said to myself and opened the door and got in, as soon as I was in I put my window down so I didn't feel so confined. We arrived at where we were going and she looked at me "the beach?" she asked and I nodded " yup, we can go somewhere else if you want you know?" I asked and she smiled " no I like it!" I smiled and opened the door for her and she got out. We walked and talked while walking along the sand, I smiled when we got to a big oak tree " are you hungry?" I asked and she nodded " yes, why?" I smiled and walked us over to the tree, I had layed a blanket down and made a picnic for us. I looked over at her and she was smiling " you like?" I asked and she nodded, we sat down and I brought the basket " now I would like to apologise for being a bit late on picking you up but I was busy making this!" I said gesturing to the basket, she laughed a bit " its fine!" I smiled and put my hand in the basket " well I hope you like my cooking, I made my favourite thing in the world!" I said pulling out a peanut butter and jam sandwich, she laughed when I brought it out " you know cos' it took me forever to make, I slaved all day!" she laughed more and I put my hand in the basket again " and the cherry on the cake!" I said and brought brownies " now I did make these!" she smiled " well then I'll have to try them!" I smiled.

We had finished the food and Megan loved my brownies, we were now talking and watching the sun go down. I smiled and lay my head on my knees which were up at my chest, Megan was in the same position. I looked over at her and smiled, she was really quite pretty, she had brown hair where as I had blonde, hers was a bit curly and she had it flowing down. I looked back at the sunset and smiled " so tell me about you?" she asked and I turned to her and shrugged " not much to tell really, im a grade A' student, annoying mother who happens to be my English teacher and I have a nut of a person who I call my best friend!" she laughed a bit " your mums a teacher?" she asked and I nodded " and frankly annoying, if the class doesn't know the answer she'll pick on me and of course having your English teacher as your mum she expects you to know the answer!" she laughed" you should see her face when I say don't know, she just stares at me and continues the lesson!" she laughed a bit harder. She calmed down and I smiled at her beauty " no im serious what your life like?" she asked and I tensed a bit, the truth is my life is hell. I always scared and im always looking behind my shoulder hoping he isn't there, I find comfort in studying because its my own world. I don't like people touching me even the slightest tap I flinch because of him oh and the reason, I was raped six months ago but of course I can tell her that on a first date now can I?. I smiled and looked at her " its hard for more than one reason but no ones perfect!"

She looked at me and smiled, she turned back to the sun " can I ask you something?" I looked at her and nodded " yeah, what?" I asked and looked at the sun as well " if you don't want to say because its something hard, but why did you ask when we met, why did you ask your mum if it was about Drake and also why do you flinch when someone's touching you?" she asked, when she stopped she turned to me and I sighed " im sorry its to painful, but I can assure you, I will tell you just not now... sorry!" I said and she looked down " its fine, I was just wondering!" she said and I smiled a bit " look, I will tell you its, its just its painful to remember and I hope you understand when I tell you!" she looked up and smiled " I will!" I smiled.

"so tell me about you?" I asked and she laughed a bit, I smiled at the sight of her smile, it was like seeing and angel "not much to tell really!" she said and I sighed " god, your about as bad as me!" I said and she laughed " well I'll tell you then, I went to school blah blah blah, got a job in Scotland, wrote a book came down here now im getting married, exciting enough for you!" she said and I smiled " you wrote a book?" she sighed and lay back " I let that slip didn't I?" she asked and sat back up again, I nodded " well im not a mind reader!" she laughed and turned to me " yes I wrote a book and it is published but you know, live long and prosper!" I smiled " Star Trek!" I said and through my arms up and she laughed " well done!" she said and I looked at her " so what's it called and about?" I asked, she smiled " its a romantic-comedy and its about two people who hate each other from the word go, they are trapped in a ski lodge for a week and they fall in love!" she said and I smiled " I'll have to read it, it sounds like my kind of book!" she smiled " you don't need to, im not to bothered by it really!" I shook my head " no I want to!" she smiled and we turned to the sunset again.

We were driving home and I turned into her drive and parked the car, I walked out and got her door for her " thank you!" she said and I laughed a bit, I walked her up to her door and she turned to me " I enjoyed tonight, thanks!" I smiled " no bother!" she laughed a it " you didn't come across as a hopeless romantic!" I laughed a bit and smiled " there's a lot of me you need to get to know!" she smiled and nodded " I know and im looking forward to!" I smiled " im looking forward to knowing you more!" she smiled and leant over and kissed my cheek, it didn't surprise me as much, it was more I didn't flinch around her. She stepped back and I smiled " I hope you enjoy the rest of your evening!" I said and she smiled " you too!" she said, she opened her door and I waved her off and got back into my car and drove home with a huge smile on my face.

"mum where are my boots?" I shouted from upstairs, I was getting ready for a parade. I was in the army cadets and we had a small parade today "WHERE YOU LEFT THEM!" she shouted and mumbled something else, I looked around and gave up. I stormed downstairs and ran to the garage and found them. I got in the kitchen " why were they in the garage, of all the places!" I said and slipped them on, I tied my laces up and I heard someone come into the kitchen, but it sounded like more than one person. I sighed and got up and saw Megan,her mum and my mum all smiling at me " what?" I asked and my mum shook her head, she walked over to me and sorted my uniform, I was in camouflage clothes and I had my green hat on, she dusted me off and smiled she was about to say something but I interrupted her "LOLLIPOPS!" I said and ran to the fridge and took the packet that was laying on the top of the fridge and took a lollipop, I turned around to see everyone still looking at me " ugh, take a picture it will last longer and now I have guns to fire!" I said and left " now you be careful!" my mum said walking into the living room, I grabbed my phone and wallet " yes mum!" I said annoyed, she sighed and turned to look at me " you remember everything, patrol, targeting holding the bloody thing!" she said and I laughed a bit, I nodded " yes mum, can I go its not like a big parade and im gonna be late!" she rolled her eyes and let me go.

The parade went well, I was walking into my house " hey mum, that's me home!" I shouted from the door " your gonna have to teach me how to polish my boots, is something I need to learn!" I said, I took my boots of and ran up stairs and sorted my hair, everything was a bit quite and I walked back downstairs, to see my Grandmother and Grandfather sitting there, Megan and her mum were still there. I looked at my Grandparents shocked, they were my mums parents " Grandmother, Grandfather, to what do we owe the pleasure?" I asked, shocked my Grandmother looked at me " well were here to tell you that were going out for dinner on the twentieth of two months, and your fiancé and her family have to come to!" she said and both my Grandparents stood up in unison, my Grandfather came over and shook my hand " we will see you then!" he said and I smiled and shook his hand, I turned to my Grandmother " academics?" she asked sternly, " all A's!" I said and she looked at me " cadets?" she asked " gun control done, physical done and leadership half done!" I said and she still looked at me " and the court?" I flinched " I-I don't know!" I said and bowed my head, I looked up and she shook my hand and they left without a goodbye.

As soon as they were gone me and my mum let out a big sigh " why were they here, really?" I asked my mum and she ignored the question " you know what they said!" she said and I sighed " im off to get changed!" I said and they all smiled at me, I got changed into a white t shirt and some skinny jeans, I went back downstairs and into the downstairs closet " mum where's my German book?" I asked and I heard her sigh " how do you manage, you always loose stuff!" she said and I sighed " not what I asked, I have a test and I would quite like to study unless you want me to explain to my Grandmother that I failed a test!" I sighed " top shelf!" she said knowing I was right " ah, shit! shit!" I said and held my head, I went to stand up and banged my head off a hot pipe " who put that pipe there?" I asked and walked out to everyone laughing, I sighed " its not funny!" I said to Megan, she nodded "yeah it is!" I sighed " banging your head off a pipe is serious, I could have concussion!"she laughed even more and I smiled, she calmed down and I smiled " so how are you both?" I asked and they smiled " spiffing!" Mrs Willis said sarcastic and I looked at her " your Grandmother is a real delight, no offence Gill!" she said to my mum and she shrugged " im glad I don't live with her any more!" she said and took a sip of her wine " we are all glad we don't live with her, I have a theory she lives on insults!" they all laughed " no im serious, its like she's waiting for a receipt!" they laughed more and I sat beside my mum but made a gap between us, she looked at me " sorry sweetie!" she said and moved a bit, I smiled and we turned to the other two, Mrs Willis was still laughing a bit but Megan was looking at me, I looked at her and I winked at her and she looked away and I saw her smile.

We talked for a bit more" so dear how did you end up in the cadets?" Mrs Willis asked, I shifted in my seat " it was something I wanted to do!" I said and she nodded, that wasn't strictly true, yes I wanted to go into the cadets but after my attack I felt I needed a confidence boost which led me to the army cadets. Not long after they both left and my mum sat on the couch opposite me " so mum, how come Megan and her mum were here?" I asked and she turned to me "well its not like your getting married to her!" she said and I rolled my eyes " yeah I know!" I said " no, me and her mum have gotten quite close!" I nodded and we watched TV.

## Chapter 3

So its been two weeks and I have got my German test after this period. I was in Megans class, I didn't have her but we both had a free period and so did Jake so we both hung in her class. She wasn't here at the moment but she knew we would be in here, we had been coming here for a week now. "so how are you, I feel like I've not talked to you today!" Jake said and I just stared at him " really cos' you just talked about your chocolate inccedant last week for a whole hour!" I said and he laughed a bit " oh yeah!" he said and I shook my head and lay my head on the table " tired?" Jake asked and I nodded "very, I was studying a bit to late last night!" I said and he laughed a bit " your crazy!" I was to tired to argue, before I knew it I was asleep.

_It was the end of the school day and I was walking in the corridor alone and walking to my locker. I opened it up and put my books in when it suddenly shut, I flinched with the bang and looked to see who shut it when I saw Drake looking at me "D-Drake?" I asked in disbelief, I thought he was in prison, he smiled and I felt like I could be sick " that's right baby, im here for you!" he said and shoved me against my locker._

_I tried to get of his grip but he was to strong, " I waited so long for you!" he said and I struggled again, he shoved his hard ruff lips on mine and I tried to push him off but he was too strong, he put his hands on my waist and I almost screamed but his tongue was in my mouth...._

I woke up to see Jake sitting next to me looking worried, I flinched when I saw him and held my head in my hands " I woke you up, you muttering something!" he said I shook my head " did you hear it?" I asked "no, I couldn't hear it, is everything okay?" he asked, I could hear the worry in his voice, I took my hands away and turned to him and smiled " yeah, fine!" he sighed " Kirsty im your best friend for god's sake, tell me because your definite not fine!" he said sternly and I sighed " im fine honest!" he sighed and shook his head " oh really because you flinch when someone touches you, and your always looking over your shoulder and now your having nightmares!" he said angrily " Jake im fine!" he looked down " how long have you been having them?" he asked and I looked away " since the attack!" I said and I heard him sigh "does your mum know?" he asked and all I could do was nod. He turned to me and I faced him " why wont you accept peoples help?" he asked and I smiled a bit " Jake im fine honest!" I said and he looked hurt " im your best friend, why didn't you tell me?" he asked, at that point Megan came back in class but Jake didn't turn and look at her he looked at me with a hurt look about him, I turned and looked at my desk " please Jake, im fine!" I said and he sighed " no your not for god's sake Kirsty!" I could feel Megan looking at us, I turned to him " please Jake, its painful enough having the nightmares repeating the whole god damn thing every fucking night and knowing that even your mum cant help you and being scared he's gonna come back but I don't need people reminding me about it!" I said and turned to my desk again " is everything okay with you two?" Megan asked concerned "have you told her?" Jake asked and I stared at my desk, he sighed " Kirsty you need to let people help you, no one knows what your going through but let them help you through this!" he said and thankfully the bell went. I grabbed my bag and went to German, luckily Jake wasn't in this class but he was in maths after.

I walked into my German class and noticed the tables were separated and our names were sitting on card. I looked around but couldn't find mine, I walked up to my teacher "Mr Haggle, I cant find my name?" I said and he smiled " oh yes, there's not enough space so your in another class, is that okay?" he asked and I nodded, there was a knock on the door"come-in!" he said and the one person next to Drake I didn't want to see, was his brother. There were gasps from other kids and I just stared at him, he cant be in this class, please say he isn't in this class! " sorry im late, I was talking to the head!" he said and I sighed, of course the world hates me so now I have him in my German class. "right then, were doing a test you can do it as well, it will give me a chance to see how much you know, come with me!" he said and I followed him and Kevin did to.

We walked into Megans class, " Miss Willis, here's the students for the test!" she looked over at us and smiled, we went and took our seats but Mr Haggle stopped us " Kirsty you sit in front of Miss Will and Kevin you sit there so you cant talk to her!" he said sternly, I sat where I was told and Kevin sat diagonal behind me, I wished he was put in front of me then I wouldn't feel so exposed. I sighed and got my pencil out " now you do not talk to her do you hear, under no circumstances, I will get Miss Willis to tell me if you make the slightest peep!" he said sternly to Kevin, I looked at Megan who looked confused, Megan turned to Mr Haggle " its just a test!" she said and he looked at her, he motioned her away and he whispered in her ear, I heard her gasp and she looked at me shocked, I raised an eyebrow and she sat back down. Mr Haggle stood at the front of the class "Si haven die gaze Zeit und Sie besser nicht sprechen, werde ich in meinem Zimmer sein, wenn Sie mich brauchen, können Sie beginnen!" Mr Haggle said in German

(You have the whole period and you better not talk, I will be in my room if you need me, you may begin!)

We were given our papers and I started as soon as I was given it. I was half way through but was interrupted"psst!" I looked at Megan and she was marking, I went back to my test and I heard it again "psst!" I heard, I knew now it was Kevin I shifted in my seat " I know you can hear me!" he whispered, Megan looked up " Kevin no talking!" she said, I could hear the anger in her voice, I heard him sigh and I continued with my work but not for long because I was interrupted again "Inch weiß, dass du mich hören kannst Kirsty, bitte, wir müssen reden!" He said in German,

(I know you can hear me Kirsty, please we need to talk!)

I continued on with my test and tried to ignore him, he sighed again "Schauen Sie Kirsty, ich kann nichts tun, okay, und im sorry für das, was passiert ist, aber bitte nicht nehmen Sie es aus mit mir, ich dissowned ihn als einen Bruder nach dem, was er dir angetan hat. Hes nicht mehr mein Bruder, bitte nicht ignorieren mich! bitte Fräulein Willis kann nicht verstehen, und sie möglicherweise gar nicht wissen, aber alles, was ich sagen will, ist im sorry für das, was mein Bruder mit dir gemacht hat und er sollte sich aber bitte nicht gesperrt werden, ignorieren mich!" he was still speaking German, "Kevin, no talking!" Megan said sternly.

(Look Kirsty, i cant do anything okay and im sorry for what happened but please don't take it out on me, I disowned him as a brother after what he did to you. He's not my brother any more, please don't ignore me! please Miss Willis cant understand and she possibly wont know but all i want to say is im sorry for what my brother did to you and he should be locked up but please don't ignore me!)

I managed to finish my test after what he said, I looked up at Megan " im finished can I go?" I asked and she nodded, I handed her my test to give to Mr Haggle and got my bag i was about to leave but turned to Kevin"Inch weiß nicht verdenken i schuld dein Bruder und ich stimme er sollte eingesperrt werden, aber man muss sich vorstellen, wie ich mich fühle zu Ihnen kann ich nicht auf dich schauen und nicht an ihn denke, im sorry haben!" i said in german and left, i walked to the library and read for fifteen minutes before the bell stoped me and i had to go to maths.

(I don't blame you i blame your brother and I agree he should be locked up but you have to imagine how I feel towards you I cant look at you and not think of him, im sorry!)

I walked to maths and sat next to Jake as always and as always I made a ago " hey, how yours?" he asked all cheery " Kevin's back!" was all i said and got my stuff, he stared at me"w-what?" he asked and i nodded, they had dated for a while and Jake loved him but when he found out what his brother did he ended it and i know Jake still feels something for him. He turned in his seat and looked shocked " when?" he asked and i sighed " today, he's in my German!" i said and Megan started the lesson, she had just started when there was knock on the door " come in!" she said and Kevin walked in, there was more gasps from students and he turned to me and i looked down, "sorry im late!" he said and Megan sighed " its fine, take a se-" she said but realised the only free seat was next to me, she stared at me and i looked at Kevin, i really didn't want to sit next to him but it wasn't his fault " he can sit there!" i said through gritted teeth, i had tensed up, he looked at me shocked " y-you sure?" he asked and i nodded " not your fault, remember!" i said and he smiled and he hesitantly took the seat next to me, i shifted in my seat a bit and i was feeling uncomfortable and claustrophobic.

The class couldn't have gone slower, as soon as the bell went i shot out of the class, if i had been in there any longer i would have fainted. I grabbed my skateboard from my locker and skated home. I stopped at an off license and got some beers and when i got home i drank them and studied most of the night.

The next morning I got up later than I usually did, i rushed about and got dressed in green jeans a blue t shirt that clung to me and my burgundy hoodie, i put my converse on and ran downstairs and couldn't find my mum. I looked around for a note but I couldn't find one, i ran buck up to her room and saw her still in bed " Mum!" i said and she turned to me " school?" i said and she shook her head " me ill, go to school!" i looked at her, i walked over and put my hand on her forehead, she wasn't burning up " what's up?" I asked " sore throat, and feel like death!" i smiled " okay then!" I said, I looked at the time " shit!" I said and dashed out, I took my board and skated to school, i heard the bell go the minute i got on the grounds, fuck it!

I thought and skated in the building, thankfully no one was around so I didn't get caught " Kirsty Auslot!", it was the head, i got of my board and turned around to see him at his door giving me a disappointed look " look Mr Garland I have a class, if i promise not to skate in school again, can you let me off?" he pointed to his room and i sighed, he walked in and i followed him in.

When i went in his office, my lawyer and Megan were there including her mum. I walked in and stood there " what's this?" i asked and Mr Garland pointed to the seat next to my lawyer, i looked at it and sighed, he moved his chair a bit and smiled at me, he knew how i couldn't sit next to people so easy and i was grateful he respected that.

" before we start where's your mum?" Mr Garland asked " off ill!" he nodded "okay so remember when we first talked about the marriage you were ill, so we thought we could go over it again, even without your mum it shall be fine!" my lawyer said and i nodded. He went into his briefcase and pulled out a folder " so this is a copy of the document and it has both your fathers signatures on it!" he said passing a piece of paper to me and Mega, i looked at the bottom of the page and saw my fathers signature, i never knew my father my mum didn't have pictures of him and never talked about him, i knew nothing. " as you can see it says the arrangement is of marriage!" he said and i looked at it and read it all through, i was finished until i saw the last paragraph, children.

It said we were to have a child within three years, i looked at my lawyer " what's the last paragraph?" I asked and he scratched his head " ah, well that must be carried out!" I looked at it again, what were we gonna do, I had no obligation against it but kids in three years, im still 18 for gods sake, i know Megan can have them and not be questioned but I would still be there and still have to look after them, god this is starting to feel real.

There was another mention of the wedding, we had to be married within four months of notice, we had three months left. I was a bit nervous but i didn't want to show it, i may be a coward for not doing so but i don't want to make them think I wont go through with it "any questions?" my lawyer asked and i shook my head, Mr Garland had accepted it and just said we were to be careful in school and out of school, and considering the wedding was in three months, changing last names wont happen until I've graduated. We were aloud to go and i shook my lawyers hand and i walked to my next class with Megan " you okay?" she asked and i nodded and smiled " yeah, you?" I asked and she smiled and nodded.

I went home at lunch to check on my mum as I always did when she was ill, Megan came with me as we wanted to tell her about the meeting in Mr Garlands office. I unlocked the door and we went in, I told Megan to go on right through to the living room and she did. I walked up stairs and i walked into my mums room "MUM!" i said shocked, she was laying naked with Mr Garland on top of her, they both looked at me "what the fuck is this?" i asked and they looked at each other, i sighed " downstairs both of you! and be clothed!" I said sternly and left, i walked downstairs and into the kitchen where i saw Megan was, i sat down and started to laugh " what's funny?" she asked and i looked at her " you'll never guess!" i said and she handed me a coffee, " i just caught my mum in the act with Mr Garland!" she looked at me shocked " what, really?" she asked and i nodded " there coming down, clothed!" she laughed and i heard them come downstairs.

They walked in and they looked a bit embarrassed, i took a sip of my coffee and stared at them " so how long you been fucking each other?" i asked and my mum looked at me shocked " language!" she said and i rolled my eyes " question!" i said and they looked at each other " about a year!" my mum said and i looked at her " that long?" i asked and Mr Garland nodded, i shook my head and tried not to laugh " so you've been dating that long!" i said and they looked away "what?" i asked and they still didn't look at me " sweetie i don't think they were dating!" Megan said and i looked at her confused then i realised what she meant "MUM!" i said shocked by my mums actions she looked at me "sorry!" she said and i just looked at her " so your fuck buddies!" i said and they nodded " well that's just great!" i said " i know it is!" Mr Garland said and my mum tried not to laugh, i just looked at them both " how?" i asked " babes i think you know how sex works!" my mum said and i sighed in annoyance " yes mum i meant how did you keep it a secret so long!" i said annoyed " well we met in hotels and here and sometimes at his!" she said so calmly, i shook my head and looked at my watch, I was needing to get back " this is not over!" i said to them both and they sighed"we didn't want you to find out like this!" Mr Garland said " actually we didn't want you to find out, full stop!" my mum said " oh I can tell!" i said and got my bag " no more fucking for today, and i will see you at school!" i said to Mr Garland , i turned to the door " some illness you got if sex was the cure!" i said trying not to laugh, me and Megan left and as soon as the door was shut we both burst out laughing.

The next day when i got home from school Megans mum was there and so was Megan, she must have had a free period and got away quick, lucky. I dumped my bag and sat down on the couch " hey all!" i said with a slight wave " hey sweetie!" my mum said, we talked for a bit more " oh, the news Gill!" Mrs Willis said suddenly "we need to tell them!" she said and my mum nodded " alright you two we have big news!" my mum said and we both just looked at her " we have a wedding date!" she said excited, i looked at Megan and she looked at me " what?" i asked and they both nodded " its the twenty-fifth of May!" Mrs Willis, i put on a fake smile, to hide my panicked feeling. THERE WAS A DATE! this just got real, god im only seventeen and im getting married in three months and its an arranged marriage to a very nice girl but i hardly know her.

All they talked about after that was the wedding and i wasn't listening, when they both went i went to my room and fell asleep, i was to busy being panicked, i was getting married in three months.

## Chapter 4

I was walking to maths with Jake and we took our seats, we were a bit early but we talked until Megan started the lesson " oh you'll never guess!" he said and i looked at him " then possibly I wont!" he rolled his eyes " there's an army parade this weekend!" I already knew, i was parading in it as part of the cadets. I looked at him "yeah so?" i asked and he rolled his eyes " think about it all those men in uniform!" he said amazed, i rolled my eyes and turned to the board " men in a uniform, not my thing!" i said and he laughed a bit "yeah, well you do like women!" he said and at that point Kevin came in, he looked at Jake and smiled shyly at him and took his seat, i looked at Jake who was doodling in his jotter " you know i don't mind if you talk to him!" i whispered but he didn't look up " but I cant, he wont forgive me!" I rolled my eyes, over the past few weeks I was getting better being around Kevin, it turned out he was in all my classes. He was a grade A' student as well so we often answered things at the same time. I had never had a conversation with him but I knew what i had to do to make Jake happy, he needed me. I turned to Kevin and took a deep breath "Kevin?" he turned to me and looked at me shocked and so did half the class including Megan "would you like to swap seats with me so you can actually talk to Jake?" I asked and he looked at Jake who was smiling "y-yeah, please!" he said with a smile, i got up and we swapped seats and the lesson started, Megan was teaching the class and every so often i would wink at her causing her to smile.

"so you like men in uniform?" i heard Kevin whisper " if i can hear that then so can everyone else!" Megan said, we were sitting at the other side of the room form her, i tried not to laugh at what she said. " Kirsty I need help!" Jake said pleading, he walked over to me and kneeling in front of me, i sighed and took his book"what do you not get?" i asked and he pointed to something on the page, i sighed and showed him what to do, Kevin looked at us and smiled " here, answer this equation!" Kevin said and i looked at him "were not doing equations!" i said and he wrote on Jakes jotter,

ME + YOU = ?

I rolled my eyes " how clique!" i said i looked at Jake who was blushing "well i may need some help!" he said and Kevin looked at him, then all of a sudden Jake kissed him, i turned away " guys not in class please!" Megan said and they pulled away and Jake sat back down. The class ended and i had a free period and so did Megan, everyone left and i walked up to her desk " hi!" i said and she smiled " hey!" she said " so there's the armed forces parade, will i see you there?" i asked and she smiled " of course, will you be there?" she asked " you might see me!" i said and she smiled "so im guessing there dating now!" Megan asked and i sighed " if they are, im spending my time away from them, im not being a third wheel!" she laughed a bit " want to go out tonight?" i asked and she smiled " yeah sure!" she said and i smiled "I'll pick you up!" i said and she nodded, i looked at my watch " i best cram some studying in!" she laughed and nodded, i waved her bye and went to the library and studied my history, a subject i had trouble with.

I was out on my date with Megan, i had bought us ice-cream and we were just walking an talking, we were interrupted by my phone going " im so sorry about this!" i said and she smiled " its fine, don't worry!" i smiled and looked to see it was my mum, i sighed and answered it

"hey mum im kinda busy!" i said to her

"i know and your with Megan right?" she asked

"you know i am!" i said

"could you two come back to ours, her mum and i have a surprise for you both!" she said and hung up

"mum!" i said but she had hung up.

I looked at Megan "it was my mum, your mum and my mum have a surprise for us both, we've to head back!" she frowned " I prefer it when you smile!" she blushed and we walked the long way round to get to my house. We walked in and i heard laughter, we walked into the living room and my mum spotted us " come on and sit you two!" she said and we sat opposite them both, we looked at them and they looked at us with big smiles on there faces " we have a surprise!" my mum said " i know you mentioned it!" i said and she laughed a bit, she brought out an envelope and sat it on the table in front of us "an envelope?" i asked and my mum nodded "well what's in it!" she said, i looked at Megan and she looked confused as well, i picked it up and opened it and saw keys, i took them out and looked at them "keys?" i asked and they both nodded excitedly " we, me and Megans mu bought you a house!" she said and i just looked at her " a house?" i asked and she nodded "well you need a place to stay, and its a blank canvas so you can do it up yourselves!" Mrs Willis said "why?" Megan asked and they both shrugged "consider it a wedding present from us!" my mum said " the address is in there to, now chop chop, go look at it!" my mum said, i looked at Megan and she looked a bit confused as well, we got up and left and we just stood at the door for a bit "they bought us a house, right?" Megan asked and i nodded "that's what they said!" i said.

we walked to our new house and i was shocked by the look of it "wow!" i said, it was a two story building with a garden at the front with a path down the middle. It had a garage at the side and a bright blue door in the middle of the house. We opened the gate at the front and walked down the stone path, Megan opened the door and we walked in. There was a hall that the stairs were in, it was small but nice, there was a door to your left that you could see that took you into the living room. We walked in and it really was a blank canvas, the walls were plain white and the carpets a mustered colour, i looked around and saw a nice marble fire place on the largest wall. We walked through to the kitchen and it was fairly big, it had a breakfast bar that separated the kitchen from the dining room which had a rounded table and four wooden chairs.

We walked up stairs and saw that there was three bedrooms and a toilet, the toilet was blue and white tiled with a shower. The biggest bedroom was nice, it had a boxed window with a shelf you could sit on, there were two smaller rooms that had single beds in them. We walked back downstairs "we must thank our parents for the lack of furniture!" i said and Megan laughed a bit " i like it do you?" i smiled and nodded " cosy!" i said and she smiled. We talked about what we could do with the place and then we left and we both went home. I went to bed but couldn't sleep all that was in my mind was the marriage and how fast everything was moving.

It was the evening we were having the dinner with my Grandparents and i could tell Megan and her mum were already here. I was just about ready, i was wearing my black skinny jeans, a white t shirt and a black blazer and some black pumps. I had washed and straightened my blonde hair and i was done, i put my glasses on and grabbed my phone. I walked down stairs and saw everyone and smiled "hey!" i said and my mum turned to me and smiled " so grown up!" she said and i looked at her "well i am 17!" she rolled her eyes and went into the kitchen with Mrs Willis, i smiled at Megan, she was wearing a denim summer dress, her hair was flowing down to her shoulders and she looked really pretty "you look nice!" i said and sat next to her "thank you, your mums right you look all grown up!" she said and i laughed " well that's what happens when i buy my clothes. if it was up to my mum my wardrobe would be filled with Elmo and Balarmory!" she laughed and there was knock on the door, my mum went and got it "good luck everyone!" she said before opening it"mother, father!" she said and they came through.

They walked in and i stood up and so did Megan, i walked over to shake there hands " Grandfather, how nice to see you!" i said and shook his hand, i went to to shake my Grandmothers hand next "how nice to see you Grandmother!" i said and she shook my hand "academics?" she asked and i stood a bit more straight" all A's" she nodded "cadets?" she asked "all complete!" she nodded "any B's?" she asked with spite, i got one B in a test and i live in shame "no Grandmother, all A's!" she nodded "i guess that's good, we must get going, we don't want to be late, we should always be punctual!" she said and hey both turned around to leave, my mum left behind them and so did Mrs Willis and i left the house with Megan " at some point im killing myself during the meal feel free to join me!" i said and locked the door, she laughed a bit "I'll let you know!" i laughed and we turned around.

There were two taxi cabs waiting for us, we walked up to the rest " Kirsty you will accompany us in our taxi!" my Grandmother said " i thought i would be going with my mum or Megan!" i said and " you will travel with us now get in!" she said and i followed my Grandfather into the taxi, i was seated in the front and i was a bit nervous, not that i was having dinner with my Grandparents but i was sitting next to a male driver.

We arrived at the hotel, we were having our dinner in a four star hotel that my Grandparents made a reservation at. I helped my Grandmother out of the taxi and we walked in, i walked beside Megan "is it me or is it really posh?" i said and she laughed a bit " its not you, i had the same idea!" i smiled and we were shown to our table. It was laid out for six, three on each side. My Grandmother sat at the edge, my mother in the middle and Mrs Willis on the other end. My Grandfather sat opposite my Grandmother and i was about to sit opposite Mrs Willis but i was stopped " Kirsty you will sit beside me!" my Grandfather said, i looked at him, they both knew i found it hard to site beside anyone including men.

I sighed " but Grandfather, its uncomfortable!" he looked at me " you will sit beside me!" he said and i sighed and sat next to him. The minute i sat down i tensed up, i took some water and had to stop myself pouring it over me. I gave my order and as soon as the waiter was away i left " im of to freshen up before dinner, wont be long!" i said and dashed to the bathroom.

I went in and socked my face in water to waken me up out of this nightmare. I dried my face and someone came in, i looked to see Megan, she smiled at me and i smiled back " your mum wanted me to check your okay!" she said and i nodded "yeah im fine, just a bit uncomfortable!" she nodded and left. I sighed and dried the rest of my face and sat back down.

We had just finished our starter and my phone went of, i ignored it in the hopes no one heard it " what was that?" my Grandmother asked and i darn t look up " Kirsty give it to me!" she said and i looked at her "pardon?" i said " give it to me!" she said and i sighed and gave her my phone. I handed it to her and she dumped it in the water, i just looked at it shocked "Grandmother!" i said and she continued eating " deathly things!" she said and i just looked at her shocked, i looked at my mum and she was looking at her shocked to.

Our main course arrived and i had the chicken, Megan was being questioned my my Grandparents and was doing good " so what do you do?" she asked " im a teacher, in maths!" my Grandfather looked at her "a teacher?" she asked and i took Megans hand under the table, i could feel her look at me but i continued with my chicken " yes im a teacher!" she said and the questions stopped, i squeezed Megans hand and took a bite of my chicken. "oh my word it cant be?" my mum said, i looked to see who she was looking at and saw my mums good friend Barbara. She walked over to us " well hello!" my mum said shocked and gave her a hug "KIRSTY!" said a small voice then something or someone hugged my leg, i looked down and smiled " well hello Michael!" i said and brought him up on my knee, he was Barbara's six year old son. " look at you all dressed up!" i said and sorted his tie, he laughed " big dinner!" he said and i laughed a bit "well then yes, you'd have to be dressed up!" he laughed "your dressed up to!" he said and i nodded " a big dinner as well!" he laughed and i smiled " i don't know what you've done but he was right grump until he saw you!" Barbara said and i smiled " oh i don't believe that, were you a grump Michael?" i asked and he shook his head " no, is mummy telling lies!" he laughed and nodded, my mum and Barbara started having a conversation and i talked to Michael " so hows you?" i asked and he laughed " funny!" he said and i laughed " you felling funny?" i asked and he nodded, then he took my glasses of " what you doing with them?" i asked " i took them off " i smiled " but i cant see!" i said " you cant see me!" he said shocked " nope, your just a blur!" he laughed " can i get them back please?" i asked and he shook his head " why?" i asked " your prettier without them!" he said and i smiled " well thank you, but i still need to see!" he gave me them and i put them back on.

"can you see me now?" he asked and i nodded" yes i can see you now!" he laughed" come on Michael, we need to go leave poor Kirsty alone!" Barbara said and Michael frowned " but i want to stay with Kirsty!" he said and i laughed " i will see you soon Michael!" i said and he gave me a hug and i hugged him back " now shoot, go to your mum!" i said and he got down and ran to his mum who had stepped away from mine. They walked away and i turned back around and finished my chicken, i put my hand back in with Megans and intertwine our fingers and we smiled at each other.

We were done with dinner and my Grandparents were happy to hear there's a date for the wedding, after that, that's all that was talked about. We got back home and Mrs Willis and Megan were staying the night, my mums idea!

We got in the house and i was getting tired, we were all sitting talking but i was drawing, i was quite good at art my comics are proof but i liked to sketch a lot. I finished the one i had started earlier and thought what to draw next, my mum and Mrs Willis and Megan were watching the TV and i thought I'd draw Megan.

I was almost done " right bed time people!" my mum said and both Mrs Willis and Megan agreed, but i stayed and finished what i was doing " be up in a minute!" i said and finished some tones and made it 3D more " what you drawing?" my mum asked, everyone was standing up looking at me " nothing much!" i said and my mum sighed " never tells me anything!" she said and Mrs Willis agreed " they get through it so much one day they wont shut up!" Megan turned to her mum " thanks mum!" she said and Mrs Willis shrugged. I finished the drawing and smiled, i closed it over and stood up "bed?" i said and they all nodded, we walked up stairs and went to our beds.

Megan was sharing with me and Mrs Willis had the spare room. We got changed and into bed and i out my hand in Megans and she smiled and i kissed her cheek " night!" i said and she smiled "night" she said and i switched the light out,

_I_ _t was the end of the school day and i was walking in the corridor alone and walking to my locker. I opened it up and put my books in when it suddenly shut, i flinched with the bang and looked to see who shut it when i saw Drake looking at me "D-Drake?" i asked in disbelief, i thought he was in prison, he smiled and i felt like i could be sick " hats right baby, im here for you!" he said and shoved me against my locker._

_I tried to get of his grip but he was to strong, " i waited so long for you!" he said and i struggled again, he shoved his hard ruff lips on mine and i tried to push him off but he was too strong, he put his hands on my waist and i almost screamed but his tongue was in my mouth...._

I woke up all sweaty, i had, had another nightmare, i looked over at Megan who was still sleeping. I lay back down and caught my breath " pills!" i said and got up out of my bed and walked over to my safe but it wouldn't open"great!" i said and sat down beside my bed and looked out at the night sky. I felt some tears run down my cheek, why, why did he always have to haunt me, why couldn't i have a normal life without the fear of him coming for me and getting what he wants again.

Megan stirred in her sleep but i didn't look up, she got up and sat down beside me, she looked at me but i still looked out the window " i heard you talk in your sleep!" i closed my eyes to stop me crying " i heard you mention Drake!" she said and i sighed " i should possibly tell you but first can i get a hug!" i asked and she put her arms around me and i cried on her shoulder "shhh!" she said and rubbed my back, i pushed her away slightly but she kept her arm around me and held me close.

" okay so six months ago i came out and i kissed a girls in the corridor instead of telling people, what can i say i was rebellious!" i said and laughed a bit and wiped my nose " so anyway, no one really bothered and that was good. Anyway i had been tutoring a friend after school in the library and once it was done i went to my locker and grabbed my bag but all of a sudden it was slammed shut and i looked to see D-Drake!" i said and she squeezed me tight, i was surprised i hadn't flinched normally i couldn't let anyone touch me let alone hug me.

" he was drunk i could smell the alcohol of him. He said he didn't like i was gay because he had, had a crush on me for a year and he was confused at why i didn't want him, for one he was a bit of a creep but he had a bit of wood between his legs!" i said and laughed a bit " he shoved me against my locker and kissed me, he took me screaming for help as moans and continued and shoved me into the janitors closet." i said and took a deep breath " once he was done i just sat there crying, my mums friend from the English department found me while looking for whiteboard markers, she asked me what was wrong and i told her but it took me an hour to build the courage up, she insisted i told my mum but i refused. For the next month i wasn't at school and my mum tried everything to get me to go, one day the woman, Mrs King, came when my mum was at work and told me i should tell my mum. i agreed and when my mum came home that night i told her everything and within seconds of me finishing she had a police officer at our door and me telling him what happened!" she pulled me closer and gave me a hug " D-Drake was arrested and is in jail, were still waiting on a court date and the boy Kevin that was in your maths is his brother that's why everyone was shocked i let him sit beside me, i don't know how people found out but everyone did and well that's it and that's why i flinch when people touch me and that's why i cant sit next to people easy and ... that's why i have nightmares every night, they repeat the incidental over again!"

She just held me close and let me cry on her shoulder and i was grateful she didn't comment " thank you for telling me!" she said and i looked at her and smiled " you have a right to know!" she smiled at me synthetically " everything will be okay, so you don't need to worry!" she said and i hugged her again and i noticed she smelled like lavender, i smiled and buried my head in her shoulder " thank you for caring!" i said " of course i care!" she said and i smiled" you mentioned pills when you woke up. what are they?" she asked and i pulled away and looked at her " sleeping pills, my doctor gave me them, i just told him i had bad dreams but i never told him what about and he wanted to know more but all he could give me was them, at the time i didn't want to think of it!" she nodded " okay!" she said and i smiled" im glad you had the courage to tell me!" she said and smiled " i would have told you anyway!" i said and she nodded and smiled " thank you, again!" she said and i laughed a bit and wiped my eyes from the tears.

I looked at Megan and smiled, i was really liking her now, she was nice, pretty, trusting and i really liked her. She looked at me and smiled and i leaned in and kissed her for the first time, she kissed back and put her hand on my cheek and i put mine on her waist. I pulled away and smiled and she smiled to and i kissed her again, i ran my tongue along her bottom lip and she gave me entrance. After a bit we pulled away " we need to get some sleep!" i said and she laughed a bit and i smiled when i saw he smiled " agreed!" she said, i helped her up and we went into bed.

"EVERYBODY UP!" i heard my mum shout and i moaned " to early!" i said and i heard Megan laugh a bit " agreed!" she said and i felt her arm around my waist, i smiled and turned and faced her she had her eyes shut, i kissed the top of her head and she smiled "morning!" i said "morning sleepy!" she said and i laughed a bit. I put my hand on her cheek and lightly kissed her lips when i pulled away she groaned "UP NOW!" my mum shouted and i groaned "is it wrong to kill your mum?" i asked and Megan laughed a bit " yes but your not the only one who thinks killing there mum would solve some issues!" i laughed and we both got up.

We had school so Megan was getting changed into work clothes, i was changing in the bathroom and when i came back through Megan was already dressed, i stood there looking at her with a smile on my face, she was wearing a navy blue dress that stuck to her and i couldn't take my eyes of her. She turned around and smiled " ready?" she asked and i snapped out of my daze " breakfast?" i said and she nodded. We walked down stairs to something smelling nice, i walked into the kitchen alarmed "what's that smell?" i asked and my mum turned to me " food!" she said and i sniffed " yeah but it smells good!" Mrs Willis laughed " surely your mum isn't that bad!" i looked at her "she can burn a boiled egg!" i said and Mrs Willis turned to my mum and just shook her head.

We sat down to breakfast and i stuck to cereal " you not having my pancakes?" my mum asked and i shook my head " im safer this way!" i said and they all laughed" have you done your essay for me?" my mum asked and i nodded " yeah i did!" i said and she nodded and took her attention to the paper and Mrs Willis did to but on another paper, there was some junk mail and i saw a leaflet about new phones, yeah im gonna need a new phone. I couldn't salvage it, it was in the water to long.

School went quick and i was at the new house with Megan, we were painting the kitchen, we had done the living room and the dinning room. We just needed to do the bedrooms, we were using the furniture Megan has in storage from her old house, i was happy that we wouldn't have to fork out for new stuff.

We were painting and i poked Megan with the wet paint brush on her face and continued my work, she laughed a bit and did the same. I put some on her arm and she laughed " that tickles!" she said and i looked at her " what does?" i asked and she smiled " this!" she said and put a big blob on my face, i spat some out and she was in a fit of laughter and i joined in. I put a blob on her face and she just looked at me and put some down my t shirt and i did the same, we were interrupted by the door going and we both laughed.

I walked over to the door and opened it, looking as nice as ever with paint all over me. When i opened the door i saw Jake standing there, i had shown him the house and he came with Mark, Megans friend and they both liked the house. He was at the door with Lisa, a girl from school " hey guys?" i said confused " we need you advice!" Jake said and walked in the house and Lisa followed him , i shut the door " Jake you cant just barge in!" i walked through to the living room " where's Megan?" he asked and i looked at the dinning room and she wasn't there " why you here?" i asked " we need you advice and don't worry i told Lisa about you and Megan!" i looked at him shocked " Jake you cant go round telling people, we could get in trouble and why did you tell her anyway?" i asked and he sighed " because she's pregnant with my child!" i looked at him shocked "Megan!" i shouted and she came through from the kitchen and looked at Jake " i did hear you right?" Megan asked and he nodded.

I looked between them both " but i thought you were gay?" i asked and he nodded " i am!" i just looked at him again " i think your missing something!" i said and he sighed " its the truth its my kid and im still gay!" he said "how did this happen then?" Megan asked and he turned to me" this might be hard for you to hear!" he said and i sighed " great!" i said "tell the story!" i said and i shut my eyes and sighed " we were at a party and we were both high and steaming drunk!" i cringed at the memory of Drake being drunk " we were dancing in the back garden and one thing led to another and we were naked in the garage!" i sighed and opened my eyes " how hygienic!" i said and he rolled his eyes " so what you gonna do?" Megan asked.

They both sighed " well were not gonna date but we don't know what to do with the baby!" Lisa said and i looked at her " are you putting it for adoption?" i asked and she looked down "no you cant!" i said know she was thinking of abortion " what else do we do, we don't like each other in that way and were both with people and our parents!" she said and i looked at Jake "your with someone?" i asked and he looked down "who?" i asked and he looked at Megan "sorry!" he said and she looked at him shocked "Mar?" she asked and he nodded, she sighed and forced a smile " i will not be a murder!" she repeated a few times through gritted teeth and i tried not to laugh, i rubbed her back.

I turned to Jake and Lisa " i think you should tell your mums or at least the school nurse!" i said and they nodded " this is why we came to you!" Jake said " don't change the subject!" i said and he bowed his head " have you told you partners?" i asked and they both nodded "what did they say?" Megan asked " its over!" Lisa said "understands!" Jake said and Megan shook her head " breath!" i said and she took a breath " right i think you should tell you parents the now!" i said and they nodded " thanks Kirsty, you to Megan!" Lisa said and we nodded " its fine!" Megan said and nodded.

They left on the agreement they were gonna tell there parents, i shut the door and walked over to Megan who looked as shocked as me "that did just happen?" i asked and she nodded " Mark will be having a serious talking to!" she said and i laughed a bit " i don't blame you!" i said and she smiled at me " back to work?" i asked and she moaned " me hungry!" she said and i laughed " well then i guess we can have take out!" she looked at me with a big smile " and you say im a kid for liking lollipops!" she rolled her eyes and we ordered some pizza.

## Chapter 5

We had officially moved into the new house and i was a bit panicky, we were moving in together. We had managed to fit both of our stuff in the house and we were proud of the way it looked but it still reminded me of how close we were to the wedding. We were two months away from the wedding now.

I was walking to maths with Jake, we didn't have it but it was our free period then maths. We walked into maths and Megan was there " hello Miss Willis!" Jake said dramatical and i just stared at him " you are gay aren't you!" i said and sat down, he looked at me and put his hand on his hip "babes I've always been gay!" he said and Megan laughed a bit " hey Jake!" she said and carried on with what she's doing " so where was i, oh yes well my mu-!" i blocked him out and put my headphones in and ignored him, he took my message and got some study stuff out, Thunderbirds are go came on and i smiled and started singing it forgetting no one but me could hear the song,

i was interrupted by a scream, i put my earphones and looked at Jake alarmed " what?" i asked and he got of his seat and jumped up and down then i realised he was excited, i looked at Megan and she was looking at him and laughing " you were listening to normal music!" he said and danced, i shook my head and laughed at him " yeah well done!" i said " im so proud, you no longer listen to classical nonsense!" he said proudly " wrong still like it!" he sighed and shook his head " how did this happen?" he asked and i pointed to Megan, he turned to her and ran and gave her a hug " thank you for saving me from classical hell!" she laughed and he let her got and spun around " granted its weird but we can fix that!" he said to me then he got a text, he laughed at what he read and grabbed his bag " sorry people but im of to go have sex with my lovely boyfriend!" he said an left, Mark was a PE teacher at the school and they often had sex in school, i shook my head and laughed a bit " i will never get use to that!" Megan said and i nodded " yeah i know!" she smiled and i smiled at her.

We were just up and i was getting ready for the parade, i was in my clothes and i was polishing my boots in the kitchen " your mum taught you well!" Megan said while putting her stuff away, i laughed a bit "took me three days to learn!" i said and she laughed a bit, i turned to face her and leaned against the counter and she smiled and stared at me, she looked a bit zoned out, i waved my hand in front of her face and she snapped back " you there?" i asked and she nodded " sorry, its the uniform!" she said a bit embarrassed, i smiled and walked over to her and kissed her, she pit her hands on my neck and i wrapped mine around her neck while still holding the boot and boot polish, i pulled away and smiled " now you know how i feel when your in your work clothes!" she bit on her bottom lip and she looked hot, i kissed her again and pulled away "and when you bite your bottom lip!" i said and leaned back on the counter and polished my boot.

"LEFT,RIGHT,LEFT,RIGHT!" we were marching through the town and everyone was there, literally you couldn't see the pavement, we passed the war memorial and we slow marched by it and saluted,"ARMY CADETS!" was shouted and we stood still and marched "GUN SALUT!" that was my queue, i slow marched forward and stopped, saluted and got on one knee and aimed my gun "READY!....FIRE!"

BANG!

"READY....FIRE!"

BANG!

"READY...MARCH!" i stood up and i was stay out in front and we were to slow march the rest of the way, we reached the beach and we could leave, after boring talks with officers i went to find my mum and Grandparents at the Costa coffee around the corner. I walked around and went in and saw them up the back, i walked over and my grandparents stood up "well done!" my Grandpa said and i shook his hand, i shook my Grandmothers hand "academics?" she asked "all A's" i said and she nodded, i noticed Megan and her mum were at the table to.

They sat down and i sat next to Megan and got a coffee " you did good sweetie!" my mum said and i smiled " thanks mum!" i said, i liked my cadets, it made feel in control of what i was doing and i made my own decisions. We talked about different things and the waitress came over and asked if we needed anything else, we said we were good but what shocked me was my mum checking her out as she walked away, i thought my mum was straight not gay!

We got back and there was some late mail, i picked it up and walked through to the living room and we sat down on the couch "anything good?" Megan asked and i shrugged and opened it, as soon as i did i noticed the logo on the top right, it was my lawyers logo.

I looked at it closely and there was a date for the trial, the day before the wedding. I sighed and put it on the table and went up stairs to get changed, i was almost done when there was a knock on the door, i sighed "come in!" i said and i turned and saw Megan, i smiled and she smiled back "i saw the letter!" she said and i bowed my head and sat on the bed and she sat beside me and gave me a hug " don't worry, he'll get what he deserves!" she said and all i did was nod, this was all i needed, i was stressed about tests and the wedding i didn't need to think about the trial as well.

I was at school the next day in maths and we were still waiting on people coming, Kevin was off so i was sitting next to Jake " ah only one more period!" Jake said and i shook my head"Jake you know there's two periods and lunch still to go!" Megan said and he nodded " but this is our last period!" he said while pointing to us both, "hey me Lisa and Mark are going to the cinema we were wondering if you wanted to go?" Jake asked me, i shook my head " im a bit busy im afraid!" he looked at me "Sandra Bullock's in it!" he said as a reasoning, i shook my head " as much as i would love to see Sandra Bullock, this is important!" he looked at me shocked " what could be more important than Sandra Bullock?" he asked and thankfully Megan started the lesson, the truth was i was going to get an engagement ring for Megan, i know it was arranged and there is a date but still i wanted her to have one.

The class finished and i went to my locker and got my stuff and walked to my mums class to get the car keys, i didn't have a car and i possibly could use Megans but she has a mini and i don't trust myself in it. I walked in and saw my History teacher Miss Jackson underneath my mum making out with her "MUM!" i said shocked and the both sat up and i looked at them both "what the fuck?!?!" i asked and said and she looked at me and Miss Jackson, i sat my stuff on the table "right explain!" i said and shut the door and pulled a chair over and sat my feet on it and sat my bum on the desk.

She sighed " okay let me ask then!" i said and she nodded " okay are you dating?" i asked and she looked at Miss Jackson and smiled "yes!" she said and Miss Jackson's face lit up and they both kissed, i turned away and put my hand out "no PDA in front of daughter!" i said and i looked back over and they pulled away " next question, how long?" i asked and my mum smiled " two months!" she said and i nodded "next question, since when were you into women?" i asked and she sighed and came and sat on the table beside me and i looked at her

"sweetie when i met your dad, i was already gay but my friend from work took me to a party and i got pretty drunk and i did the dirt with your dad and got pregnant, i called him and told him and he was a bit shocked cos' well he was gay too, anyway we tried living together for you but it didn't quite work, we weren't meant to be together so we had loads of talks about it and decided that the best thing, at the time was to end it and he moved away. At first he sent you money monthly for food and clothes but when you were six i told him to stop because i had gotten a job he said he would stop at the end of the year which i was okay about and he said if i needed the money he would happily continue with it!" i looked at my mum in disbelief and i got up and stared at her " i was a mistake, my life was a lie, i thought i was wanted but i was a drunken ,mistake!" i said shocked and my mum quickly stood up and looked at me " no sweetie, we both love you so much and your dad was so happy to have you, yes you weren't planned but we are so happy that your here, you dad and me love you so much!" i smiled and she gave me a hug, i hesitated a bit and gave her a hug.

I let go and i turned to Miss Jackson " so what happens now between you to?" i asked and they both smiled "are you okay with me dating your teacher?" my mum asked and i nodded " as long as i don't catch you two at it again, wait how do i always find out when your having sex?" i asked and she blushed " okay, what the hell you blushed!" i asked and pointed to her, i looked at Miss Jackson "what have you done?" i asked and she laughed a bit "was there anything you wanted?" my mum asked and i remembered " yes i need the car keys!" i said, she sighed and got them from her bag and threw them at me " thank you kindly, now, no sex while im gone!" i said and left with an evil laugh.

I got back home and Megan wasn't home yet, she had texted me saying she would be half hour late but i was okay with it. On the way back i had stopped at the shops and got stuff for dinner, i went into the kitchen and brought the ring out and smiled, i put the precious cargo back in my pocket and got dinner ready. I was making the pasta sauce when Megan came in " hey im home!" she said and walked into the kitchen "oh what smells so good?" she asked and put her arms around my neck and gave me a kiss on the cheek " that would be our dinner!" i said and she laughed a bit " and what are we having?" she asked " pasta and tomato sauce, and i even got garlic bread!" she smiled and i kissed her lightly "well it smells good so i cant wait to have it!" i smiled "well you take a seat and I'll bring it over!" she smiled and took a seat over at the table.

I put it out on plates and gave her it and she smiled "thank you!" she said and i sat down, she took a bite and smiled "very nice!" she said and i smiled, when we were done we were sitting talking and laughing away. I took a deep breath and got on one knee " Megan Willis, it may be an arranged marriage but i still need to ask you and give you a ring so , will you be my wife and marry me?" i asked and she smiled "yes!" she said and i smiled and put the ring on her finger and kissed her, her phone went of and i smiled "you do realise that's our song now!" Megan said and i sat back in my seat " good thing i happen to like it, what's it called?" i asked and she smiled "Wild heart, the Vamps!" i smiled and kissed her again, she had missed the call but she didn't seem bothered.

*********

2 weeks, that's how long it was until both the wedding and the trial. I was in maths and i was a bit stressed, i had been told there was three important test coming up,all on the same day. I was copying down the notes we were given "alright guys, there will be a test so make sure you copy these down!" i just looked at Megan, a test another one. Before i knew it i had already left the class, i had stormed out of class, Great!

I thought about just going back in but i couldn't, i didn't want to explain why i left and i didn't want to hang around school my mum and her girlfriend would catch me. I walked out of school and went in my mums car, i had, had it the night before so i took it to school today to give it back to my mum.

I got in and just held on to the steering wheel "shit!" i yelled, the bell rang and it was now last period but i didn't leave the car, i didn't have the heart. My phone went of and it was Jake, i threw it on the passenger seat and ignored it, it stopped but went again and this time it was Megan. I sighed and started the car and just drove, i didn't know where i was going but somehow i reached the beach, i parked the car and walked down to the oak tree and just sat there with my knees to my chest and looking out to the sea.

"shouldn't you be at school?" i turned to see who it was and a young girl had sat down beside me "what?" i asked and she smiled " shouldn't you be at school rather than the beach?" i sighed " school sucks!" i said, she looked about 14 "im home schooled so i don't really know!" i nodded " lucky!" i said and turned back to the sea "you look a bit down what's up?" she asked and i laughed a bit "to much to tell you!" i said.

"well sometimes letting it all out can help!" she said "yeah but i don't know you!" i said "yeah but that can also be a good thing cos' then you can let it all out rather than hide things!" i sighed and turned to her "who are you?" i asked and she smiled " if you know my name then you might hide things but don't worry i definite don't know you!" she said and i nodded " what's the worst that can happen!" i said and she smiled, so that's it i told her everything, Drake,Megan my mum and her flings, tests everything you name it i said it. When i was she just looked at me shocked " at first i thought it was boyfriend trouble but wow!" she said and i laughed a bit " regretting asking me, what's up!" she nodded and i laughed a bit " so what you gonna do?" she asked and i shrugged " i don't know, i don't know how i feel, all i know is i don't feel like im making decisions about my life, that everyone's hiding something from me!" i said and looked out to sea, my phone had went off a lot and it was either Megan or Jake.

"okay how do you feel about your mum and dad situation?" she asked and i thought about it " im okay with it, my mum could have told me sooner but i cant hold it against her and im not angry with my dad i just wish he could have contacted me more!" i said " so how do you you feel?" she asked " basic!" i said "okay so how do you feel about the marriage?" she asked and i thought about it hard " not bothered, i just wish it wasn't so soon!" i said "and how do you feel?" she asked "nervous but in a good way like something will go wrong not i want to do a runner!" i said and i sighed "so.. how do you feel about the court thing?" she asked and i sighed " angry, they don't need me there he's pleading guilty and they have evidence but im angry that he did this to me that i have to always look over my shoulder in fear!" i said and turned to her " i don't like who i am because of him, if it wasn't for him i wouldn't be so scared all of the time!" she nodded "but like you said you haven't flinched in... three months and who helped you?" she said and i smiled " Megan!" i said and she nodded " and how do you feel about Megan?" she asked and i smiled and turned to the sea " i feel happy when she's around and in heaven when i kiss her and i feel a bit sad and empty when im not with her and when im in her class i cant not look at her its like a law i have with myself i don't know how I've not failed that class!" i said and i turned back to her " so what do you think that means?" i asked and she smiled " i think you love her!" she said and i smiled, she was right, the past few months I've been feeling like this but didn't know how i felt.

I smiled " i love her, your right!" i said and she smiled "of course i am!" she said in a cocky voice and i laughed a bit " have you told her?" she asked and i frowned a bit " no, no i haven't!" i said "well then maybe you should hurry up!" she said and i smiled " i cant now, she's busy!" i said and she rolled her eyes " by the amount of times I've seen her name pop up on your phone i think she's free!" she said and i smiled " thank you, thank you so much!" i said and smiled " no bother, i should possibly head back!" she said and i nodded " well I've got a fiancé to see and say i love you to!" i said and she smiled i waved her bye and got in the car, i switched the radio on and Wild heart came on and i smiled.

On the way back i stopped at the book shop and bought Megans book, i parked the car but i had to park in our fields car park because the school one had the bin lorry in it, i walking across the field reading Megans book when i was tasselled to the ground, i looked to see Jake on top of me "get off me you annoying child!" i said while hitting him, he got up and looked worried " oh my god im so sorry Kirsty i totally forgot!" he said and i shrugged " its cool, no harm done!" he looked at me then poked me a few times then smiled " you di- you didn't flinch!" i just looked at him "YOU DIDNT FLINCH!" he said and ran around the field and kept shouting it " is he right?" my mum asked, i turned around to see my mum and Megan i smiled and gave her a hug "oh my baby!" she said and rubbed my back " i knew you'd get over it!" she said and i pulled away and smiled " thanks mum!" i said and Jake came back with a big smile, then all of a sudden the rain came on and everyone had glum faces but i started to laugh " Kirsty are you okay?" Jake asked and i nodded " im on top of the world!" i said and they all just stared at me " come on!" my mum said and her and Jake walked away, Megan was about to as well but then she saw me reading her book " is that my book?" she asked, my mum and Jake were already walking away.

I nodded "yes and they need to admit it already its frustration!" i said and she laughed " so you like it?" she asked and i nodded "one of the best!" i said and she smiled "thanks!" she said " hey is everything okay, you ran out and i called but you didn't pick up, is, is everything okay with you about the wedding?" she asked while looking down, i lifted her head up from her chin and smiled " i love you, remember that!" she smiled and i kissed her, i pulled away and she smiled " i love you to!" she said " and how cliché we kissed i the rain!" i said and she laughed, i took her hand and intertwine our fingers and we walked back to school to get our stuff and head home.

## Chapter 6

"TIME TO GET UP SWEETIE, TODAY'S THE DAY!" my mum said from outside my hotel door, i moaned then it was shoved open and my covers were pulled of me "mum!" i said and she laughed " get up your wedding is in 6 hours!" she said and the door banged shut. We were getting married in a hotel, i wasn't to bothered now all i wanted was to be with Megan. We were staying the night because my Grandparents didn't want to make the long journey to early in the morning.

I got up an had a shower and i was getting a bit nervous now, what if something goes wrong! I got in my black trousers, white shirt and black blazer and sat on my bed and watched TV but i was interrupted by my room phone going off."hello?" i said

"hello is Miss Auslot there?" the young lady asked

"its me!" i said"there's a man in reception for you, he wishes to see you!" she said

"eh okay I'll be down in a minute!" i said and hung up

Who could it be?

I put my black pumps on and went out my room and i bumped into Mrs Willis " hello dear, how you holding up?" she asked and i smiled " good, how Megan?" i asked and she smiled " pretty as a picture where you of to i thought your mum confined you to your room!" she said with a slight laugh " there's someone at reception to meet me apparently!" i said and she nodded "well I'll see you soon!" she said and i smiled and walked down the stairs.

I went to reception and walked up to the counter " eh... there's a man here to see me?" i asked and the girl looked up and pointed over to the chairs and a man who was looking a bit nervous. I looked over and he was sitting in a purple chair and he was bouncing his left leg up and down, i looked at him and didn't know who he was. I walked over and hesitantly said hello " you wanted to see me!" i said and he looked at me and smiled, he stood up and put his hand out " hi you wont know me but im your dad!" he said and i shook his hand and i just stared at him " your my what?" i asked and he nodded a bit

"im your dad!" he said, i sat on the chair that was in front of him and he sat down as well " you don't know me and its probably the worst time to see you on your wedding day but i just wanted to be here!" i looked at him " how did you know i was getting married?" i asked and he smiled " how much do you know?" he asked " i know you and mum split and i know your both gay i caught her in the act a few months back that's when i was told everything, i also know about the money. why what else is there?" i asked and he brought out his wallet "well your mum would e-mail every so often and tell me how you were doing, you know test and stuff and she would send me your school picture!" he said and showed me pictures that were in his wallet, there was one of me every year that i had a picture taken " she also told me about how you were already gay and stuff and I'm proud of you and she also told me what happened at school with some guy!" i looked at him "she told you!" he nodded "she e mailed me last night with the verdict and im glad what he got but he should have gotten longer, seven years wasn't long enough!" i nodded " we both think that!" i said and gave him his wallet back

"can i ask, why are you here after so long?" i asked and he nodded " in the truth i wanted to see you, your coming eighteen and i wanted to be there i made a mistake in suggesting i would leave and im sorry but i wanted to et to know you and i know i should have possibly done it on a different day but i couldn't wait to see you!" i nodded "well i want you to know i don't hold anything against you and i agree it possibly should have been a better day to do this!" i said with a slight laugh and he laughed a bit to "thank you!" he said and i got up and hugged him and he stood up and hugged me back.

We sat back down and talked for a bit more " so your mums with someone?" he asked and i nodded " caught her in the act!" i said and he laughed " well im with someone we have been together for eight years and i love him to bits!" he said and i smiled " talking about love i guess you would like to see my fiancé!" i said and he nodded, i brought my phone out and i was about to call Megan when i remembered she had said she had left it at home cause it needed charged so i called her mum

"hello?" she asked

"hi Mrs Willis its me Kirsty!" i said

"oh hello dear what can i do for you?" she asked and i smiled

"could you get Megan to come down to reception i want her to meet someone?" i said

"Well you know your not suppose to see her until the wedding!" she said and i laughed a bit

"i know but its someone important, its my dad!" i said and there was a pause

"I'll go get her!" she said and hung up

"She's on her way!" i said and he smiled, we talked for a bit but i caught at the corner of my eye Megan coming down the stairs, she was in a white summer dress that came to her thighs and her hair was nicely done t was all wavy. I smiled when i saw her, she looked around a bit and smiled when she saw me, she walked over and i stood up and walked over to her and immediately kissed her lightly, i pulled away and smiled " wow!" i said and she smiled " thank you!" she said and i turned around to see my dad standing " Megan this is my dad, dad this is my fiancé Megan" she smiled and shook his hand " hi there!" he said and she smiled " hi!" she said, i let her sit in my seat and i stood behind.

We talked for quite a bit and i was glad Megan and my dad got on, we were interrupted by my mum calling

"he-" i was interrupted

"WHERE THE HELL ARE YOU, YOUR GETTING MARRIED IN AN HOUR!" she said and i looked at my watch"oh shit" i said Megan took my wrist and looked at my watch and laughed a bit

"okay im coming!" i said and hung up

"dad we need to go!" i said and he smiled " i hope we can stay in touch!" he said and i smiled " course we can!" i said and he nodded " well me and my partner George are looking for a place together, would it be alright if we got a place round here if i can see you more, that is if there's one going!" he said and i nodded " of course i 'd like to see you more and your partner!" i said and he smiled, Megan stood up and took my hand " Mr Auslot would you like to come to the wedding?" she asked and i smiled, he smiled and looked at me " is that alright?" he asked and i nodded " I'd love it if you were there!" he smiled and nodded " well okay then!" he said and i gave him a hug, i showed him where the other guests were and he went and took his seat.

I was now officially Kirsty Willis, the agreement said i had to take the one who was older last name so i had to take Megans name but i wasn't bother i was happy and in love. We were lying in our hotel-room bed and she was in my arms and we were listening to our song "so Mrs Willis, how are you?" i asked and she laughed a bit " well Mrs Willis im happy!" she said and i kissed the top of her head " well of course you are your married to me!" i said and she hit my tummy "we've only been married for an hour and im already being abused!" i said and she laughed and kissed my cheek "sorry!" she said and i hugged her tight and kissed her, i rolled over so i was on top of her and she put an arm around my neck and one on my cheek, i pulled away and looked at her " i love you Mrs Willis!" i said and she smiled " i love you to Mrs Willis!" she said and i kissed her again after that you can guess what we did considering we were out of breath.

We were of for three days and we used that time wisely but we had to go to school still as it was only May and there was another month left of it. To hide the fact i was married but i still had my ring Megans mum suggested i put my ring on a chain so that way i still had it on but its not as noticeable, Megan was okay with it so i did that.

I walked into my first class, History and sat beside Jake and he smiled so Kirsty why were you off for three days?" he asked knowing what i was doing or more likely who, i smiled " i had a bit of a sickly turn!" i said and he nodded and whispered in my ear " i guess so did Miss Willis oh wait Mrs Willis!" he said and i hit him and he laughed, Jake was at the wedding and along with my mum he cried.

The day went farely slow but my theory is that i didn't have maths today, if i did it would have went quicker. I was i the library after school getting tutoring for my History, it was one of my subjects i didn't do well in, i got the grades but not without help "so why did Hitler do what he did?" Miss Jackson or Kate asked and i shrugged " cos' he was bored!" i said and she laughed and shook her head " no! but i like your answer!" i laughed " no how am i suppose to know, go back in time and ask him, Hey Hitler why do you want to kill millions of people?" i said and she laughed " okay i think you need to read over all this again!" she said opening my textbook, and i banged my head of the desk " I.HATE.HISTORY!" i said and she laughed, i looked up and saw Megan talking to the librarian " hey Miss Willis can you rescue me from history hell?" i asked and Kate laughed again, Megan looked over and smiled " it cant be that bad!" she said and walked over and i nodded "apparently i need to go back in time and interview Hitler!" she raised an eyebrow and Kate laughed again " i didn't say that you did!" she said and i shrugged, my mum and Kate hadn't told anyone they were dating but i had told Megan.

We were interrupted by my phone going off, i had made mine and Megans song my ringtone. I looked to see who it was and i t was my mum

"hey mum what's up?" i asked

"i need you home now!" she said

"why do you sound like your crying?" i asked and Kate looked worried

"im not crying im panicked!" i sighed

"well why are you panicked?" i asked

"i invited Kate for dinner and i was making it but i was hungry so i made myself a boiled egg and i just burnt it i need you to make the dinner!" i just sat there silent and then burst out laughing and both Megan and Kate looked at me confused

"y-you burnt a boiled egg!" i said and they both laughed a bit

"this isn't funny I CANT COOK!" she said and i laughed harder

"i know why do you think i know every take out number within a ten mile radius!" i said and she sighed

"just come and make the dinner,please?" she asked and i sighed

"fine i wont be long!" i said and she hung up and i laughed again

"i so hope she never learns to cook, it'd be to weird!" i said "im sorry Miss Jackson but i need to go and show my mum how not to burn a boiled egg!" she laughed a bit and nodded "okay see you tomorrow!" she said " goodbye Miss Willis!" i said and winked at her she smiled " bye Kirsty!" she said and i grabbed my stuff and drove to my mums.

I walked in and you could smell the burnt food "my god did you burn a pig it stinks!" i said and walked into the kitchen and it was like a bomb went off, i just stood there looking at it all "how?" i asked and she shrugged " i don't know, one minute it was going okay next the egg burned!" she said and i looked at the pot and there was a black ball in brown water " how?" i asked and she sighed " can you fix it, she's coming at six!" she said i looked at my watch i had two hours, i sighed and nodded " sure you leave me to it!" she hugged me " thank you, thank you, thank you!" she said and i laughed " okay let me go!" i said and she did and went upstairs to get ready.

" so everything ready it just need to come out when the clock timer ping's okay!" i said to my mu, Kate was about to arrive any minute and i was telling my mum what to do. The door went and i went and opened it and Kate was there " hey!" i said and i let her in " hey Kirsty!" she said and i showed her into the living room " ohh that smells nice!" she said and i turned to her " why thank you!" i said and she laughed a bit, i walked up to my mu " now its when the clock ping's and there's another bottle in the fridge and on the known chance she stays the night i made pancake mix for you to just put in the pan and you cook for five minutes until golden!" i said and she nodded " thank you sweetie!" she said and hugged me

"now i will leave you to your night as i have a wife to entertain in more ways than one!" i said and Kate looked at me "your married?" she asked and i nodded " how did you not know?" i asked and we both looked at my mum " ugh don't blame her, she's forgetful how she didn't forget the date is a mystery but i will leave her to tell all now goodbye!" i said and they waved me of and i went home

"sweetie im back!" i said when i got in, i walked into the living room where Megan was watching the music channel and our song was on, i smiled and sat next to her " hows your mum? she asked and i smiled " she didn't tell her girlfriend i was married so i have a felling it could go two ways!" she smiled and i kissed her, i lay her down on the couch and she put her arms around my neck and i ran my tongue across her bottom lip and she gave me entrance.

We were lying in bed naked and out of breath when my phone went

"h-hello?" i said

"Kirsty, why are you out of breath?"my mum asked

"What were you doing?" she asked again and i smiled

"Megan!" i said and Megan hit me"naughty!" she whispered in my ear and started kissing my neck, i was suppressing a moan, god i was in heaven!

"okay i will ignore that bu-" I stoped her

"iwillcallyouback!" i said quickly and hung up

I put my phone down and lay on top of Megan and used my hands to stop me falling on her "that wasn't very nice!" i said and she put her arms around my neck "what was?" she asked and bit her bottom lip "this!" i said and kissed her neck and her grip tightened around my neck and she put her hand in my hair and she let out a moan and i smiled.

## Chapter 7

I had now graduated school and we were a month in to the holidays and I was married to Megan two months. I was on the phone to my officer in charge at my cadets, lately army officers have been coming and inspecting us and watching us do drills and stuff and I found out why,

"we need you out front!" he said

"what?" I asked confused at what he meant

"we need you in Iraq, all the cadets are being called up!" I sat down

"b-but I cant!" I said

"im sorry you need to go, were pulling soldiers out but some need to go in for safety!"

"safety I could die!" Megan looked at me funny "im not going sorry!" I said

"if you don t you'll be arrested!" he said and I laughed a bit

"so I go to Iraq and either live or die or I get arrested for not going!" I said

"im sorry that's the way it is, we'll see you at the barracks in an hour ready to leave!"

"AN HOUR! how am I to leave in an hour this isn't right!" I said now I was getting angry

"we only found out today im sorry!" he said and hung up

I looked down and cursed the living daylights out of the army, I looked at Megan and she looked worried " please tell me what im thinking is wrong!" she said and I sighed " if your thinking that, that was me being told I had to go to Iraq and leave in an hour because the army is a fucking annoying bastard organisation then you would be right!" she looked at me shocked and gave me a hug and I could hear her crying slightly and I started to cry to " I don't want to loose you!" she said and I held her tight " I love you so much!" I said and I held her tight and kissed her lightly, I let her go and called my mum and dad and told them to meet me at Costa and I called my Grandparents

"hello, Mrs Au slot speaking!" my Grandmother said

"Grandmother its me Kirsty!" I said

"Go on!" she said,

" I need you and Grandfather to meet me in Costa coffee, we need to talk!" I said

"im sorry we have plans!" god I do not need this stubbornness

"YOU WILL MEET ME IN COSTA COFFE WHERTHER YOU HAVE PLANS OR NOT NOW BE THERE WITHIN THE NEXT FIVE MINUTES!" I said angrily and hung up,

I took a deep breath and Megan rubbed my back " everything will be okay!" she said and I looked at her and smiled "I hope so!" I said and kissed her.

I got myself ready and we headed to Costa. When we got there everyone was there including my Grandparents and my mum and dads partners, they all looked over at us and looked confused, they had every right Megan had been crying and I was in my army uniform and carrying a duffel bag filled with my clothes. We sat down and everyone stared at us " this is goodbye because fifteen minutes ago I found out that I have to go to Iraq and fight and I leave in forty-five minutes!" there was silence then you heard my mum cry.

My dad hugged me and I shook my Grandparents hands and my mum wouldn't let me go but we managed her off me, I said bye to them all and I kissed Megan goodbye and I walked away to my death.

**MEGANS POV**

Kirsty has been away for almost a year now and she doesn't know when she will get back, we were video calling today and her whole family were at ours. We called every so often when there was a connection and her family all came around and we called her "oh she's calling!" her mum said and we all sat around the laptop and clicked answer, it cracked up a bit but it settled, she was in front of a light brown tent and it had a large gun hanging from it and a helmet. She waved at us "hey guys!" she said and we all said hi " we miss you!" her mum said and she smiled " I miss you all!" she said and I smiled.

We told her some gossip "so when you getting back?" George asked and she smiled " I have news on that, im coming home in three days!" I looked at her shocked " well someone say so-" she was interrupted by an alarm "fuck!" she said to herself and looked around, she quickly grabbed the gun and left, she came back into view and took the helmet, she left so quickly she knocked the laptop over and we saw the rest of the camp.

We saw her run away down and hide behind a wall with another man, they talked and then they turned to an open are and shot something, a few others joined them and they were all shot, Kirsty looked at them but continued, more came and they were shot including Kirsty "KIRSTY!" her mum shouted.

The noise stopped and I had tears in my eyes and George gave me a hug but we all watched the screen. A man came over and looked at all the people who were shot, he checked the first five and he drew a cross over him and shut there eyes he got to Kirsty and checked her pulse " come on hen!" her dad said and the man put his ear to her moth " BREATHER!" and two men came over and helped her, they lifted her up on a stretcher and put her in a building but they stopped, she was whispering something to one of the men, the man looked over at the computer and sighed.

They took her away and they man came running over and he moved the computer a bit " so you all no doubt saw that and Kirsty is breathing but has a lot of blood loss this call will end soon cos' the army records these things but she told me to tell you all she loves you very much no matter what happens and she told me to tell Megan she has a wild heart!" he said and ended the call and I cried even more.

## Chapter 8

**KIRSTY'S POV**

I had just got out of hospital thirty-six hours ago and me along with forty other soldiers were heading home. When I woke up I was shocked to see I had lost half my leg, it took me a while to adjust but hey-ho life goes on, I just hope everyone's okay with it especially Megan. I was given a metal pole with a foot on it so I could walk easier, and I was thankful I wore trousers a lot.

We were in an army truck and I was in with another guy called Dave, it was just us cos' we were medically needed, he had lost his arm and was good fun to be with. We were stopping for coffee at the Costa coffee I had told everyone I was leaving at. Our truck had a big red cross on it which I felt was intimidating but apparently we needed it.

We arrived and all the other trucks were already there, we got out and I was feeling the cold. Everyone was already in and me and Dave walked in "AMPUTEES!" the others shouted at us, we were the only ones with limbs gone, I sighed and shook my head " okay we get it, we both lost something but we have names. Me Dave. This Kirsty!" he said in a duh tone and we walked over to the table, the all mumbled " we like lost leg and lost arm better!" Jones said pointing to us "well lost leg is gonna get some coffee!" they all cheered at the fact I said my nick name. I laughed and walked up to the counter.

"hi can I get something with a lot of caffeine in it!" I said and the young man laughed a bit "so a coffee?" he asked and I nodded "oh and do you have any lollipops?" I asked and he looked at me funny " fine never mind!" I said and I paid for my coffee and he turned to the coffee machine. They had music playing on the background and the next song that came on was Wild Heart and I smiled and started singing bits until I was given my coffee "LOST LEG!" Jones shouted and I turned " its Kirsty or Willis but what?" I asked and walked back over " were heading back to barracks coming?" he asked and I shook my head "sorry guys I have a taxi waiting!" I said and pointed out the window to the taxi that just arrived.

They all nodded "where you going?" he asked "hmm its not like I have a family I Havant seen in almost a year and a half and would be worried cos' the army didn't tell them anything but I was injured!" I said in a duh tone and he nodded " forgot!" he said and I nodded "well boys im off, goodbye!" I said and the all waved me bye "keep in touch!" they said and I was about to leave when something caught my eye, I turned around and saw my whole family there including my Grandparents and they were all looking at me, I smiled and my mum came over and hugged me tight and I started to cry " my baby!" she said and I laughed a bit.

I walked over and I hugged my dad and what shocked me was my Grandmother gave me a hug even my mum was shocked. I sat down and I held onto Megans hand and she just smiled at me "I missed you so much!" she said and I gave her a hug " I missed you to!" I said "I love you!" I said and she laughed a bit " I love you to!" she said and I pulled away and wiped my tears " god you all got me crying!" I said and they all laughed a bit.

We talked a bit but then I remembered something " wait how long have you guys been sitting here?" I asked and Kate looked her watch " two hours!" I gulped, we got here half an hour ago, they heard it all "and did you hear what the others said?" I asked and it was silent "ah!" I said, I shifted my chair back a bit " okay so you saw what happened and basic we were under a surprise attack and I was shot in the leg several times and I lost a lot of blood, I was in theatre and they fixed it up but I was out. Anyway my leg developed and infection in the bone and the only way to stop it was chop of and I now have this!" I said rolled my leg up and they saw the pole, my mum cried a bit more " oh my baby!" she said and gave me a hug and rubbed my back, I looked at Megan and she smiled at me and I kissed her and she wrapped her arms around my neck.

We all talked and no one minded about my leg and I was happy about that. Me and Megan got home and I kept asking her about it "and your sure you don't mind?" I asked and she nodded " babe im fine with it!" she said and gave me a hug and I held her tight, she pulled away and I kissed her. "so what you want to do?" I asked and she bent over to my ear "take the uniform of!" she said and I kissed her neck and she held onto my hair and she moaned in pleasure, we went upstairs and I followed my orders!

##  Epilogue!

I was in my studio drawing next weeks issue of my comic. When I got out the army I went to university and got a degree in art and then went and worked for a comic book company but then I quit and I now design my own comic books and my latest comic book is the top selling comic book in the UK.

"MUM YOU HOME!" I heard James cry, we had him fourteen years ago and he was our only kid "yeah im here!" I said and he walked in and I hid my drawings, he always wanted to see him but I made him wait till the comic came out " so eh what you doing?" he asked and I smiled "your not seeing them!" I said and he sighed and sat down on the chair beside my special desk "not even a sneak peek!" he asked and I shook my head "nope sorry bud!" I said and tapped his head.

We heard the door open and shut "guess that's mum!" James said " or someone who happens to have the key to our house!" I said and he just stared at me " what it could happen!" I said and he shook his head, we got up and walked through to the living room where Megan was sitting on the couch looking exhausted, I sat down beside her " tough day?" I asked and she nodded " yup!" she said and I brought her in for a hug and she layed her head head on my collar bone " go to sleep!" I said and kissed the top of her head.

" one bit!" James said and I sighed "no!" I said, he was still asking about the comic, Megan had fallen asleep so we kept the talking low " a character?" he asked and I sighed " no James!" I said and he frowned " please, with a cherry on top!" he said and I shook my head " sorry no!" he sighed and I laughed a bit " your an evil mother!" he said and I laughed " that's right I don't tell my son what's in the next comic and im considered evil!" I said and he nodded.

I looked at the time and it was about dinner " what we having for dinner?" I asked and James shrugged " don't know!" he said and I sighed " well your a great help!" I said and he nodded, I shook Megan slightly "sweetie!" I said and she moaned "what?" she asked " what you want for dinner?" I asked "don't know!" she said and I sighed "your as bad as your son!" I said and she smiled "how about a take out!" I said and they both nodded "pass me the phone!" I said and we ordered pizza.

Since I left the army and lost my leg a lot has happened, my Grandparents both died and I was pretty sad about that. My mum got married to Kate and they moved into a flat together. My dad got married to George and they now live opposite my mum and Kate which I find creepy but the four of them get on like a house on fire. Me and Megan had James when I was twenty and we were so happy to have him, we adopted him. He was put into care when both his parents died in a house fire he was six months old when we got him and have looked after him since.

I worked for Marvel comics for five years but I quit and started my own company and made my own comics and I currently design the leading comic, The futuristic planet by planet comics which was valued at a thirty million pound company something I was pretty proud of. We still lived in the same house as we first did when we got married and me and Megan were doing great, I couldn't love her more. When we got home that night I came back from Iraq she wasn't bothered about my leg no matter how much I asked her if she was okay with it her answer was always, why would I care I still love you!

The End!

