((( All  R ights  R eserved)))

By TasteTheDream Publications

Copyright© 2011

No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of the publisher. This may not be stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the written permission of the publisher. This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, organizations, places, businesses, events are the creation of fictional work by the author Nikida Taste aka NST/Never Stop Truths/No part of this book or other books of sequence, or by TTD Publications may be used for duplication of any sort, unless for brief lines for newspapers & magazines.

All rights reserved worldwide. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form without the prior written consent of the publisher.

This eBook/paperback is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This eBook/paperback may not be re-sold. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your enjoyment only, then please return to the retailer and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

The publisher and author make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of these contents and disclaim all warranties such as warranties of fitness for a particular purpose. The author fact that an individual or organization is referred to in this document as a citation or source of information does not imply that the author or publisher endorses the information that the individual or organization provided. The concise official and is not authorized, approved, licensed, or endorsed by the author's manuscript/publisher.

Cover Design & Format Layout

By

TTD Publications

MAHOGANY'S

POND

By NIKIDA TASTE

CHAPTER 1

July 2011

Wearing dark oversized designer shades, a jet black asymmetrical pixie hairstyle, Mahogany f l oat ed on a high end  raft  in an out-door pool wearing a  luxurious  neon yellow two piece bathing suit. She held a n ice cold quenching  Daiquiri equipped with fruit , a  long pink spiral straw . She sipped daintily thinking of a possible new job prospect at a well  known lucrative radio station in D.C. The hot  declining sun hover ed her partially wet beautiful sleek body cast ing  a metallic glow that made her  appear  queen of all queen goddess levels.  She was i n total relaxation . H er  arm fell into the water, moving her fingers allowing the current to glide through them, skipping the liquid in ful l on leisure mode . Seconds later the cordless phone rang . It  laid beside her. She  exhaled a sigh displeased that her peace and serenity  had been interrupted.

"Hello." She  answered the phone . "Hi. May I speak with Mrs. Mahogany Johnson?" The caller  acquainted . "This is she."  Mahogany  didn't recognize the professional voice ,  slightly sat up to engage. "This is ZZWP radio Mrs. Faulkner assistant director. Going over your credentials in media and communications paired with your  first interview, to say the least, we were impressed. We would like to schedule a second. We've narrowed it to three candidates. Is  ten-thirty tomorrow morning okay?"  Mahogany  instantly felt giddy inside amazed at how quickly she might be able to land the job. She had always wanted to be a radio personality since a  young girl, couldn't believe her dream may finally be coming true. She composed herself in order to hide eagerness in case there were stipulations that warrant negotiating. "Yes.  ten-thirty is fine. Thank you." She  gave the  same professional tone ,  subtle smile. "Wonderful. It'll consist of what we did before only this time we would like you to do what we call test runs on the air. Well, you won't actually  be on the air . W e'll just set it up as if you are." Mahogany looked into the sky silently mouthing the words thank you to God before responding. "Not a problem. I'll be there. Thanks again Mrs. Faulkner." "You're welcome. Bye now."  Mahogany waited to hear the line disconnect before push ing the off button.  Glee filled her with cloud nine in view. Wanting to tell someone about the good news , although hunger s etting in , decided  to attend to her growling stomach. S he used her hand to paddle back to the pool's edge ,  climbed out , stopp ed the bottoms of her two-piece  designer bathing suit from  riding up, made her way passed the patio

furniture . She slid the glass doors open, entered the gourmet kitchen , grabbed the phone receiver from the wall, dialed  her mother while  open ing the state of the art stainless steel fridge. She was in search of a house salad she'd made the day before. Her mother answered on the first ring and  initiated conversation. "Hi sunshine how's my baby?"  "Great! Guess what ma!" She  replied joyously , retrieving a fork from a drawer , after, taking a seat at the oval table. "What?" "First, tell me how proud you are of your one and only daughter . H ow she can never do wrong in your eyes." She shoved a bite into her mouth ,  waited for her mother's response. "Okay. I'm  soooo proud of my baby girl . O f  course she could never ever do wrong in me and her father's eyes. What's the news girl? I 'm not getting younger . " "Alright ma. You know th e interview I went on a couple of days ago at ZZWP? They want me to come in for another. I think I might have this in the bag ma.  It's down to three people."  Mahogany shoveled another bite in her mouth, idle for approval as adrenaline ran through her veins like a tidal wave. She strived to make her parents proud , making up for the mistake  of  choosing a su b par  man like her ex-husband. "No baby.  Really? Oh my goodness. I can't  wait to tell your father. My baby's going to be on the radio! You  are your mother's child honey . Good job sweetheart!"  Mahogany's  feet were propped on a chair eating the last bites of  the salad, smiling ear to ear . " Please d on't tell daddy yet. I want to make sure I

have the job before I do anymore bragging. Where is he?" "Outside talking to the next-door neighbor. I won't say a word.  You've been taking care of yourself very well  but i'm going to ask anyway. Do you need anything?" "No , i 'm fine ma. T hanks for not saying anything to daddy. I'm so excited. I don't know what to do with myself. I can't  wait to hit the airwaves." "I'm so happy of  you baby.  Always remember there's more fish in the sea." "That's right. When a narcissist don't have control over your mind anymore, they go berserk and leave." "You've seen the light now God has a bigger plan for you baby. You don't need a man for anything really. You've been the best daughter a mother could ask for."  Mahogany  exhaled a deep sigh , feeling blessed, elevated from the chair, headed to the trash bin. She scrape d the remains of the salad in  it . " Thanks ma. I'm lucky to have parents like you two.  I'll call you soon  with an update ." "Alright. We love y ou. Please d on't forget to call girl." "I won't. I love you guys too. Bye ma." Both hung up simultaneously as she placed the receiver on the hook, went to rinse the bowl, left it in the dish rack. She  seized moments to gaze around her lux urious  home, ba sking in the enjoyment of hard work which most was in the midst of being handcuffed to an emotionally abusive relationship. She was  delighted again and loving it. Mahogany didn't need a man, granted, wanted one equipped with  children, picket f ence, fluffy dog, the American dream. Reality set in. She was alone. She refused to allow this to deter her from goals she arranged for herself. She abruptly dismissed the pleasant vis ual realizing she had to stay focused on her career path.

DAYS LATER

Evening

The Restaurant

"The man  had no financial resources. His dick didn't have any resources either. I was too straight. Anyway, w h at w as Tariq thinking ? I can't stay up all hours of the night every night. I'm a model. Looks are  everything  in this business." Shay bragged ,  secur ing high end shades on the b ridge of her nose like a movie star, then, rummaged her designer bag for lipstick. Leslie  hesitated , watch ing a handsome male waiter pass with a tray of food. Then, she spoke. "I hear you girl. Working at the library everyday keeping the kids in line ' s a job in itself. I don't have time for nonsense. That's why I live my life through you . So make sure you keep your life interesting okay?"  The  women, who were dressed  upscale , laughed. Mahogany interject ed. "That's cold Les . W hat about me? My life's interesting minus a man and the crap that comes with them. You're looking at Miss ZZWP your sexy evening host Monday through Friday. Topics entirely at my discretion. Giving relationship knowledge to the masses one informative session at a time." "You got the job!"  Leslie and Shay hollered in unison,  eyes wide mouths dropped . Patrons  at adjacent tables gave dirty looks.  "No, I  didn't . I just say things to stay relevant. Of  course your girl got the job!" Mahogany  exuded the same motivation,  eyes sparkl ing from good news. H er friends seemed genuinely cheerful, intensely supportive . Leslie pinched off a piece of  F rench bread dipped it i n hot mustard ,  popped it into her mouth ,  the underdog ,  less attractive of the two women, always fe lt the need to  overcompensate . "Wow. I knew you were going to get it. They would've been crazy not to hire a  gorgeous intelligent girl like you. See ladies this is what  it's about.

Making moves for ourselves. Not sitting back waiting for a  man to do it for us. We're trend setters."  Leslie spoke  in a corny  voice, chewing, looking at her friends goofy. Mahogany and Shay smiled, shot a look at each other , communicating with their eyes  to say they love Leslie but she's too naive sometimes. "Exactly. L adies we do the damn thing. Mahogany girl i'm so proud of you.  W hen are you guys going to come visit me in New York ? I meet the right celebrities. Totally have  fun but  it's not the same when I don't have my real family to  share  some of t his limelight ."  Shay told them, applying lip gloss with precision, eyes fixed on the compact mirror.  Mahogany smiled, th ought to herself it was just like Shay to bring attention back to herself. It didn't matter since she loved her  more than a sister.  "Soon i guess." Leslie stated, pooching her lips. "I have to check my schedule darling. I'm there with bells on when i do."  Mahogany added , feasting on hot food the waiter situated  around the table. "I supply the wave. You ride it. It's not going to last forever." Shay warned.  Leslie  piled her plate with shrimp fried rice, chicken wings, teriyaki and egg rolls. The women  dug in. Shay nibbled  on her meal, checking emails and social media pages.  " Every time I think about the possibility of running into  my favorite black actor  gives me shivers. Game has to be tight.  I have to lock th e station down first . I'm either going hard or home.  Lucrative rich men don't want a woman who lolly gags."  Mahogany chatted jokingly, sipping red wine.  Shay and Leslie looked at each other , giggled, continued indulging in the meal. "D reams are so worth having. " Shay ended the conversation with a toothy smile.

One  W eek  L ater

Mahogany was  d ressed  stunning to the tee , styli sh cream pantsuit, killer black heels ,  hair done to perfection by the most expensive salon in D.C. , strutting  alongside one of the veteran staff members of ZZWP . They  pass ed doors, walked corridors,  being shown the ins and outs of the  job, e ngaged in o ffice politics  with folders in arms . A divers e group offered  seconds to obtain a sneak peek at their new co-worker.  Mahogany  kept comments to a minimum, attentively listen ing to supervi sor  Tim.  He fill ed her in intermittently giving  beta male fem inine personal opinions.  Her eyes roamed a couple of the employees. S he noticed there was  a black woman who didn't seem particularly keen  that  she had come aboard.  "There's a few rough beard billy goats who are on thin ice here. Sad. What exactly are their game plans anyway huh?" He whispered close to her ear, ultimately revealing a wide gummy laugh. "Minding business runs in my family. Have to say it's quite prominent in my genes." Mahogany responded with a near Poker face,  ignor ing judgment, snooty snares of disapproval to comba t nerves,  g rasping inner workings of the company. Evenso, never losing sight of how  sexy and beautiful she  appeared, professionalism t ook precedent. "This entire floor ' s pretty much where it happens. We have subsidiaries of the station with other departments on the floors I showed . T hat's  it . Oh, the lunch room? Down the hall to your left. Anything that isn't labeled is community property. If

you've seen one you've seen them all. " He noted with a twinkle in his eye. "Got it." She  bulged her eyes, stretching her mouth to the biggest smile she could muster. " I would advise to bring lunch or follow the smell of a wonderful  posh  cafe you see everyone breaking their necks to get to... . " "I love to cook so i won't be there much. Tim, you've been great. I really appreciate your tour." "Not a problem. No ma'am. We're glad to have you. I 'm  glad they chose you. If I may say the last girl? A bit of a mess. You didn't get that from me okay . Sometimes it's nice to know what you m ight  have to c orrect  later due to someone 's indiscretion . The one i mentioned  well let's just say it was at the hands of her own demise." He whispered again , using the palm of his hand to cup his mouth.  They  continued to step in unison  along the long hall. Mahogany was t aken aback by the abundance of information she'd received .  " I 'm honored to be here. I have a lot to offer. Thank you for showing me around."  Her calculated responses kept her in position. "No problem.  My pleasure. Here we are. This is where i'm sure you'll make  sweet magic happen. " They approached a door with a placard that read her full name in gold cursive letters. He opened the door stood aside as if he wasn't coming in, utilizing arm gestures to present the new dwelling. " Do you need  a little freshening up here or any additional questions? " He asked chipper ly, smiling, now leading the way to the radio booth.  "No actually Mrs. Faulkner covered  a lot in my second interview. I'm just ready to get settled." " Wish granted . The keys to your ship are in the top right hand drawer.  G ood luck Mahogany. If you desire anything you know where to find us." "Thanks."  She secretly danced a jig inside, surveying the area, the red shellacked oakwood desk, clean walls, radio equipment.  Without hesitation Tim clo sed the door,  disappea red. She f inally  had a moment to herself . She  s ashayed to the plush black swivel leather chair and sat.  T he pressure escape d her feet ,  ki cking off tight heels . I deas flood ed her brain  regarding what direction and path her  broadcast should  take . She got up, went inside the  booth. It smelled pleasant accompanied with assorted items, supplies at her disposal. In the corner,  a crystal vase of fresh  D affodils,  S un  F lowers,  C hrysanthemums , T ulips, caught her eye. She reached for the decorative card attached to them.

To: Mahogany L. Johnson

From: Your parents

Knock their socks off!  W e love you!

Mahogany was tickled pink shaking her head at the overwhelming thoughtfulness her parents had always shown. Acquiring their blessing meant the world. She stuffed the card back in the flowers, picked up a pen,  notepad,  began writing ideas.

DAYS LATER

10am Tuesday

"Get this. S he wants  me  to go with  her to some stuffy banquet full of stuck up white collars and suits  i've never met in my life .  You didn't even ask me to do that."  Mahogany listened to her ex-husband Quinn complain, spilling his guts as she scooped his dirty socks from the floor beside the bed. She'd become yet again complacent to their new  normal relationship. The fac t he was still very attractive, had a great body, willing to share intimate space with her, kept her inexplicably appended to the reminiscence that once was. "Yes, because I knew better . F rom the looks of  this some things never change."  She held up one of his filthy socks scrunching her nose due to its saturated horrific odor. She witnessed  the declination of his quality of living  first hand after officially leaving him. S atisfaction was one of few emotions she harbored for him. It had been close to four years since they'd had sex . It was the one thing she refused to give him. R emembering what it was like disintegrated from her mind many moons ago. "Just  give her y our true feelings . You never had a problem with telling me what you  were  not going to do . F ind the  real you , break it to her gently."  Mahogany said, wearing a trendy gray sweatsuit, placing the sock in a hamper he hardly used.  Quinn peeked his head out the closet , gave her a side look  knowing it was right on schedule for her to make reference to their  previous dealings . "Now I remember why I wanted to remain friends with you. You always made sure the past stayed in the past. I'm pretty  certain that's the reason."  His sarcasm delivered a strong jab, pulling a football uniform and cleats from the closet.  "I'm just kidding Quinn. Must you be so sensitive ? I'm sorry, it fell out."  Mahogany tilted her head, gave a closed-mouth smile. Albeit, the love she had for him still lived in her aching heart. "Here comes the bullshit." He added. "Look, it hurts to see another side of a person i know but you have to keep moving regardless." "We're in a better place. That's for sure. You don't hate me like you used to." He told her. "I do a lot for you. Your luck hasn't run its course yet. Clearly." "A lot? You cost me a job because you thought i was fuck'n the perfume girl. Do me a favor get the knife out my back will ya." Mahogany laughed, steady tidying the room. "You were. That's why you're still broke and lonely. You don't have me a hundred percent. Karma's real honey." She said. "You must not know me 'cause if you did you wouldn't be talkin out the side of your neck." "Boy bye." "Whatever. You have all the answers. It's your opinion that matters. Nobody else's." "You made your bed Quinn. Now stretch in that bitch." "Yeah, okay." He sat on the bed, trying on cleats from years ago. "And stop coming to my house unannounced. You're going to find what you're looking for like last time." "I think i should let you in on a little secret." He whispered. "What?" She placed her hand on her hip, sending attitude. "See, i don't beat the brakes off these dudes 'cause i don't wanna seem i'm fighting over a woman. Ya know, your nosey neighbors, reporting back to your parents." "You still care. Stop it." She added, turning the corners of her lips. "You too sweetheart." "No. Be glad i'm extending my wonderful friendship to someone who doesn't deserve it. It's okay though. I totally get you." Suddenly she felt bad for making earlier comments.  A few minutes of silence went by . Mahogany  put the  spotlight on herself ,  figur ing if she was going to be his shoulder  crying about other women, the least he ought to do was listen to her when she had things on her mind as well. She changed the subject, riding the wave of becoming a radio personality. " M ake sure you tune in to my station  often . I'm go i ng to need you guys to help me kick it off by calling in until it floats on its own." He ignored her, got up with cleats on, looking at himself in the full length mirror.  As usual her words went in one  ear , out the other.  He darted about the room searching for items he needed for semi-football practice , continuing to evade  the subject at hand.  She released a tiresome sigh of aggravation. "Women. You can't live with them . D amn  sure can't live without them. You know something? You're right. I'm  me . I'm just going to tell her i'm not going. Plain and simple.  Have you seen my red white Nike Jacket?" He asked , going through dresser drawers . "Quinn did you forget? We don't live together anymore. How would I know where you keep your  things ? You need a  housekeeper because i'm not your maid. You're not getting to the right questions for the right people. Ask her to move in so she can help you keep this place  together . My wifely duties were ove r when the ink dried. Well, actually, before that."  She sucked her teeth with a grit jaw, grabbing her thin designer sweater and bag from the chair. She sat on the edge of the bed, displeased with the encounter. Quinn hoisted a duffel bag over his shoulder , opened the door to his studio apartment, walked  into the hallw ay . "Are you  coming or what ? Let's go." He remarked. "I can't wait till my car's repaired. I wouldn't ask for a ride unless I really needed it.  It didn't make sense to get a rental . E verything should be done in a few hours. Take me home to change then drop me at  ZZWP please thank you. "  She turned up her lips while closing the door, irritated, refusing to pretend being disregarded was okay. They walked side by side, making their way out the building.  "ZZWP? You work there? " "Unbelievable." " No small potatoes girl." He  gazed at her in admiration . "Yes, i work the re . Weren't you listening earlier? Never mind. Don't answer. I promise myself I wouldn't ask questions I know the answers to."  They spilled into the parking lot as the gleaming sun nearly blinded them, headed to a ten year old Nissan Maxima . C onversation came to a  halt .  Quinn used a key to unlock her door, sprinted to the driverside. He threw the duffle in the back seat, started the engine, shifted the gear in drive, sped out the lot  focused on getting to their destinations.

H ours Later

Afternoon

Mahogany  gave a frosty  good-bye to Quinn, closed the car door , began making her way to the building of her new job. She ascended the stairs of cement,  looking  at her diamond-beveled watch . It  read  four-thirty . Her  delicious eye-popping casual outfit ensemble mixed with class was an amazing sight. Her  jewelry and  heels complemented beautifully, allowing the  confidence level  to rise to the occasion. S he passed  C aucasian  employees who were  ending shifts. She nodded, sm iled, figuring it was best to stay on decent terms with people she was going to brush shoulders with daily. Once inside the building, her heels clicked the linoleum floor, dashing to the break room, to the cabinet, grabbed a foam cup, filled it with water , retrieved a box of orange cinnamon tea . She unwrapped  a  packet ,  dropped it in  the  cup ,  plac ing it i nside the microwave , set the timer for  three minutes. Mahogany w aited patiently for her beverage,  listening to  the sound of the microwave, tossing job related ideas in her mind . A young black woman ,  close to

her age, entered the room, exuding confidence letting it be known she had been a part of the team for  years .  The woman moved with poise  to the fridge ,  company mug in hand. Both women smiled at each othe r, full  eye contact, however, Mahogany felt a chill in the air , noticed the woman's style of dress was similar to hers. Even though the silence  was  awkward, she  stood until  the microwave rea ched its last seconds. S he wasn't going to kiss the woman's behind just because she was new. The bell sounded indicating her tea was ready , in that moment, the woman walked to the sink to rinse her mu g,  began speaking with a snooty tone. "We have thousands of listeners tuning in. What's your show going to be about?" Mahogany slowly turned in the woman's direction sensing obvious hostility , looking her in the eyes. "Relationships. The reality of it. I know a thing  or two  in that department . Don't we all?"  Mahogany's sarcasm was evident, although making it clear she was professional before anything else.  "Not  everyone w hich is why you agreed to do the show in the first place..."  The woman sipped from her mug with both hands.  Mahogany watched  her attempt to  pull her name from an unknown place in her mind. "Mahogany Johnson."  She told the woman, adding sugar to her beverage, clear in showing she had no time to waste. "Well Mahogany , we take our station very seriously here. It's a responsibility we pride ourselves on.  Good luck with your broadcast ."  The woman paced a few steps toward the exit, no interest in volunteering her own name, a detail mentally jotted. Mahogany didn't fret d espite the lack of genuineness . "Thank  you.  I plan on it." A strong sense of confidence washed over, using her shiny red glossed lips to cool her tea, Mahogany was more than ready to prove her verbal skills had what it took to succeed.

Minutes Later

Mahogany dismissed the encounter from the break room, small thing to a giant,  reach ed  the booth, sat elegantly at the desk. She  placed the mu g in front of her, nestled the headphones on her ears and  adjusted  the mic attachment. She eyed  levels on the control board,  gauged timing for commercials . She positioned finge rs, studied the  switchboard ,  traini ng  to multitask  to give the people of D.C. a  calm smooth relax ed voice. She was ready to unveil skills ,  put nay-sayers to rest. She hit the "on air" button. "Hello to my beautiful D.C. people out there. You are now tuned in to Mahogany Johnson's ZZWP Lover of Life session. You 're welcome to call in 555-605-ZZWP . I'm game for any questions you have on relationships. I think  it's important to  never, under any circumstance, sugar coat what goes on behind closed doors. Getting to the nit grit is the  only way to gain true comprehension on why men and  women operate the way they do. Honesty is how we do it people. Mahogany will give you the kind of flavor you're looking for. I'm here to help, but first, which will be one of many,  i have a question of my own. Why do men cheat on good women?"  W ithin minutes the  dashboard li t up . T hree calls  awaited . She hovered her finger over the button  to retrieve the  first , continuing to speak graciously into the mic. "If it's important to you , it's important to me. We have calls  lined, thirsty for the truth baby . Keep them coming . Let's go in on th is subject ... " She pressed the button. ".. Hello caller. Welcome. Thank you for taking the time to shed light on t his topic. What ' s your name where are you calling from and what would you like to offer?" The male caller had a voice deep as Barry White's, l ots of static in the  background . "H-hello ? How you doin Mahogany m y name ' s Jim from Baltimore. Yes, to answer why do men cheat on good women it's because those women perceived as good women are probably not good women. I have  plenty  women in my family . B elieve me they tell me everything so y ou can't always assume they're worthy or they 're  being good to their man." H ard breathing was heard on his end. Mahogany nodded, listened attentively, shifting eyes, praying the first call wasn't a nut.  "Th at's a very honest point Jim. Good assessment. With a  sexy voice like yours, you  must have someone special. A re you good to  them ?"  She smiled, hearing dogs barking on the line, stirring the pot for  increased ratings . She was  relieved  to feel  settled i n he r new role so quickly and  comfortably. It was  what she dream t it would be.  Mahogany sipped from her mug waiting for a response. "Yeah, of course. Lucky for her she don't have these problems." He laughed. "Tell me more Jim. Let other men know what it takes to keep a woman happy." Her tone was seductive. "T rust me sweetheart i check all her boxes if you know what i mean. I handle some of her chores. Get her nice. Next thing you know she's bless'n a brotha panties come'n off...." He chuckled, slight embarrassment in his voice.  She int errupted before it got too nasty, utilizing an upbeat demeanor.  " You don't hold back huh? Look at you. See, this brotha tends to his woman's desires and needs. My kind of guy right here." "Absolutely." "Awesome  Jim. We have to recognize what we have  or it's over, she 's out the door . Two wrongs don't make a right. Look ourselves in the m irror and ask ourselves are we what we're asking for in the relationship. T hanks for calling Jim." "You're welcome." Mahogany happily answered the next cal l, speaking in a run-on sentence again . "Hello caller welcome to ZZWP's  L over of Life session , what's your name where are you calling from what would you like to add? " "Hey there ! M y name ' s Roberta from Florida.  I would like to say I have the  best

husband and daughter in the world! God 's  been  amazing to me . B eing honest with your mate even when you don't want to be will make that man do  right ! That's all I have to say!" " Preach  Roberta!  Y ou 're  such a blessed woman.  C ertainly one of the lucky ones. I hope your family ' s listening because they would be proud to hear you show so much love to them."  Mahogany's smile expanded, revealing every tooth in her mouth, instantly recognizing it was her mother. She played along to keep the flow.  "Yes I am . T hank you for this show. I know you'll keep it real for many who need advice  from an intelligent woman like yourself." " Aw, y ou 're too kind t hank you.  I'm elated to  have you as a listener."  Mahogany glanced at the clock on the wall. It was time for commercial.  " I can't wait to hear more. I discovered your broadcast through a friend. She was right. You're the real deal!" "Thank you my love. Please do call in again." She disconnected the line while entertaining the  audience , spending the rest of the evening giving advice ,  playing devil's advocate, keeping  it  fun , sexy and informative.

Days  L ater

Saturday  N ight

Mahogany  posted in front of  the French marble vanity mirror dressed to kill in a silver  designer dress spraying on one of her many expensive perfumes. She let out a  bassful sigh , ran her hands along her shape feeling  the tight-fit  number that hugged  her curvaceous body. She thought to herself she was too young and sexy to be alone night after night. "At least i'm not stressed. I'd rather be single than have headaches of being  tied to a loser."  She clarified out loud, staring at  the phone as if able to magically make it ring with a good man on the o ther end.  She fussed over her new short hair cut , telling herself it was either now or never to get her feet wet again. Wearing fire heels to cause every man to drool, Mahogany  grabbed  the car keys, cellphone and clutch from the bed in search of an interesting unforgettable night out on the town .

After a half hour of driving , singing to a  popular female r&b artist's latest album, she reached the entrance of a po sh lounge  hotspot frequented by many up-standing entrepreneurs , those who'd made name s  for themselves. Her brand new custom painted pearl white E350  BlueTec V-6 Benz with Asanti chrome rims caught jealous eyes as she  rolled up to valet. She exited  the vehicle sexy, polite ,  greet ing the valet guy , dropping keys in his hand with a  warm smile."Hi. W hatever you do honey please don't scratch my toy.  Thank you sweety. " She handed him a cri sp twenty dollar tip. He was taken  a back by  the generosity, her effortless beauty unable to adhere to policy. "Apprec iate it. Don't worry it's in great hands. But um, i f I may speak for the lounge you look very lovely tonight." He  winked, eyeing  intensely. Mahogany 's  ankle strap stilettos collided  on the sidewalk creating a sound only a woman who knew how to work heels could. "Yes, you may say . T hank you." She  commented, feeling gorgeous, desired as if she was the most scrumptious looking woman  he'd ever seen. She  strutted  in sleek, nerves getting the better of her , never wanting  to seem desperate, gliding through  the crowd like  she walked on air. She scanned eyes searching for the perfect table.  The room was filled with robust well-dressed dapper men which appeared their  sole purpose was to hypnotize  women into submission.  Mahogany calcula ted ratio of men to women, located an available table ,  two chair s,  decided she'd better take it since chances of finding another was slim to none. A female singer  serenades the audience with a sultry voice.  She sat poised, a queen  possessing incredible class,  casing  the pac ked  room. She was enjoying the ambiance and decor of such a well built space. The lighting was  ideal,  her jewelry and clutch sparkled radiantly  on  chandeliers captur ing brilliance to its entirety. She looked forward to someone tak ing her order as surroundings induced ideas for her home. Seconds later her phone vibrated in her purse. She checked to see who it was . Discovered it was Shay.  She used  a  finger to block one ear, presse d the phone against the other, greeted the caller. "Hello."  Mahogany crossed her smooth oiled legs to show off her provocative appetizing stilettos.  "Hey Miss ZZWP. What 'cha  up to?"  " Entertaining myself with a little dinner and music. Are you in town?" "No. I'm doing a late night shoot. I was thinking about you , wanted to know how your first show went." "You could've called in , represented your girl." "I'm sorry  honey . One thing led to another. My agent has me running  across New York  to every shoot in the state . Thank goodness  not eating has benefi ted . I never have time to anyway." "Shay you have to eat no matter what.  You're going to faint one day.  Your figure isn't going anywhere. You have your mother's genes . S he still  looks great." "See, that's why I love you. You always have my back. I needed to hear that. I'll be coming to town in a few weeks. What time are your shows?" "Five to eleven Monday through Friday."  Mahogany mentioned,  discreetly watch ing racy hard body men come and go. "Oka y . Looks like they're ready for me. I love you . I f I don't get a chance to call and you do tell Les to call me .  I got the bag she wanted half price. "  Shay said.  An attractive male  server approached Mahogany's table.  It prompted her to wrap the conversation. "I will. Love you too. Talk to you soon."  She smiled at the guy waiting to take her order, dropped the phone in her clutch, began recitinig what her taste buds drove her to. While doing so, another server, a woman, spoke to her server,  passing by with a tray stacked  with  drinks.  " Hey Lloyd? Do you mind sending an extra bread basket to table six for me ? Gotta love tonight right? Thanks sweety. "  "No problem Laurie. I'll take care of it. " He told his co-worker, then, immediately addressed the current table he was attending. " My apology beautiful. Saturday night ' s one of our busiest. What will your gorgeous self be having?" He winked with a respectful tone, holding a small black notepad and pen in hand.  Mahogany blushed , grinned,  instantly pleased  by how polite and charming he was.  H is chiseled ripped body  blessed his  uniform, ma king the experience that much more enjoyable.  The overwhelming smell of his cologne lifted through the air gracing her nostrils with each breath she inhaled.  She wore a Poker face, c areful not to have th e  I -want-to-jump-your-bones-

expression, ke eping eyes on the menu. "That's okay. I'll have the sauteed smoked salmon with butternut cream sauce, roasted scallion potatoes..." She lightly tapped the menu with her nude-colored manicured nails. ".... light on the chives, no sour cream, a dash of butter...." The  server wrote  the  order with ease. She paused, flipping pages of the menu,  concluded. "... and an  A pple  M artini with a splash of raspberry twist . S haken not stirred. Thank you."  He  scribbled additional notes. " No problem . Will that be all?"  He replied flirtatiously. Their eyes met as he spoke with a magnetic smile causing her heart to skip beats.  " I'm totally good . Thank you." She looked  up smil ing, giving some attention to the female entertainer on stage. "Alright . " He  answered professionally, dashing away to fill the order .  Mahogany  pretended to be interested in different things ,  secretly admiring the handsome impeccable specimen, her  server, from afar . Back to reality.  Dream deferred. The radio station pushed thoughts of having a man  right  into non-existence. For the rest of the night,  just like that, she'd changed her mind. She decided to bask in the occasion alone . She turned away gentlemen who showed  interest , killing any glimmer of hope they may have had.

Two  W eeks  L ater

E arly Wednesday  M orning

Mahogany made a sluggish left turn at an intersection. She wore black shades, designer head to toe, eyeing vehicles as both hands clenched the top of the steering wheel.  Leslie sat in the passenger seat.  Mahogany's  heart ached to  witness one of her closest friends in emotional pain. "Are you sure  this is what you want? Once you go through with this  you can't reverse your decision."  Mahogany announced mildly , l ooking  at pedestrians who stood on center islands. A single tear  streamed from Leslie's eye. " Yes . It's been a year and three months.  I don't have time to waste. S ix months into our relationship he sta rted that lie . I 'm done." "Yeah."  Mahogany sighed. "I'm not raising a c hild alone." "I truly understand. You're my  sister.  I love you. I want to say give him time maybe he'll realize you're who he really wants but truth is we have to be realists. His place is probably s tacked full of tvs that aren't on the universal remote list. What's that tell ya? Unorthodox and not in a good way okay." "I agree." " My mother always told me having a man's baby doesn't make him choose. Have you told anyone else yet?"  Mahogany asked, driving the speed limit, watching the road carefully . "Just you and him. Don't tell Shay . Y ou know how she is sometimes."  "Yeah, self centered. Your secret's safe with me." Mahogany gripped the  steering wheel tighter . Leslie  lowered her head, racked with grief.  "Do you know what he said to me when I told him I was pregnant?" "What?"  Mahogany stopped for a red light.  " He had a life before  he met  me .  He didn't twist  my arm to sleep with  him . Seriously? The bastard said i knew  he had a wife. No, i  didn 't . " Leslie  concealed a whimper of tears, hearing t he  painful words e scape her mouth .  Mahogany placed a hand on her friend's thigh, waiting for the light to turn green, choking back tears. She  opened the console,  fished  a pair of red shades and napkin from it , handed them to  Leslie . "Put these on honey. C ry  hard as you need. It'll make you feel better. L et it out." Leslie took the shades , slid  them over her eyes. "Thank you sis." He r voice cracked. Both women sat silently looking at the scenery. Leslie's mind ran wild, one  degrading  incident after another she'd suffered at the hands of her untrustworthy low hanging fruit boyfriend. Mahogany attempted to lighten the mood. "Are you hungry? We should get something to eat before the appointment." "If I could i'd eat a  cow right now .  They said no food or anything after twelve last night. Not even a piece of gum." Leslie told her, sniffling.  The women  must e red a smile. "Really? Wow. Pretty strict huh?" "Something about not wanting me to vomit under anesthesia." "Well when you're done don't be surprised if  there's a  cow in my ba ck seat .  A cow my girl wants, a cow  she gets."  Mahogany joked .  Leslie chuckled, wiping her nose with the napkin. They laughed  simultaneously . "Girl you're crazy.  I really can't deal with you right now. " Leslie  deflected. They pulled in the lot of the Women's Center . Mahogany located  a pa rking space ,  turned off the  engine,  grabb ed her  girl 's hand,  gazed  directly in to her eyes. "I'm always here for you. Never think for a s econd long as i have breath in my body.  Everything 'l l be okay You got this. "

CHAPTER 2

A frail unsightly elderly  C aucasian woman w earing broken prescription glasses with a non-functional personal shopping cart shuffled toward Mahogany , interested in an item on the shelf . "Excuse me do you know where  i can  find Epsom salt?" The  aisle consisted of pasta, tomato sauce, crackers, several types of  canned goods. Mahogany reached for a bottle of Prego  sausage and  garlic  sauce , placed it in her cart , rotating to face the woman . " I 'm sorry ma'am I don't work here but I believe you can find it in aisle eight or nine. " I figured . Heaven s me. " Not a second later, nor appreciation offered,  the woman turned her cart ,  slowly ma de her way in the opposite direction. Mahogany sm irked at  the woman's back, exhaled, a ting e of disrespect simmered, albeit, relieved  i t would be many years before she would need  similar items. "You're welcome ma'am." She  spoke softly  to herself, at times disappointed that she was so kind to rude Europeans. The after-thought of the  interaction mentally dissipated as she  continued  looking  for items she listed . T he sooner she found them the faster  to home to prepare a tasty meal for one.  She incorporated a pep to her step, strolling  aisles,  in fair  mood . The power of independence induced a smile , employed with benefits with much of her trust fund intact . She hummed a favorite song, grateful for  f riends and f amily .  A ripe fem inine voice  interrupted congenial spirits. "Aren't you the woman from  'L over of  L ife  S ession ' ?" Mahogany visually engaged, raised an e yebrow, unsure of the woman's motive.  "Yes, I am." She  remarked politely to the European woman who was a n a ttractive  brunette, long dark  curls, hazel eyes ,  stewardess  attire ,  large breasts the size o f melons . "I'm Jennifer .  Quinn's girlfriend . He told me about your show. We  caught it on our way out one evening. We could all use a little advice  to fine tune our lives ."  Mahogany thought the woman needed more than advice if she was taking up with the likes of her ex-husband. She couldn't believe Quinn snagged a nice looking white woman owning nonexistent funds ,  pockets full of lint. She wondered how long they'd actually been seeing each other and  was he unfaithful when they were together with the female in front of her . "Absolutely, Quinn's  great .  He's like a ridiculously cheesy movie. It's so good because it's so stupid, but of course, i 'm sure you know that by now. " The woman laughed. Mahogany pressed on. "Yes, my radio show, g lad you guys were able to tune in. Don't hesitate to call  again. E very opinion ' s valued at ZZWP."  She tried to sound g enuine, smiling ,  using peripherals to  peek in the woman's cart . A stack of Swansen chicken dinners and a gallon of orange juice was what she saw, figuring she'd been approached first which gave her the upper hand. "No problem darling, my pleasure. We enjoyed listening. We need more women discussing the truth about relationships. You're a  treat ." She effused. Mahogany made it achingly aware being with her ex didn't bother her one bit. "I really appreciate that. It's fun, rewarding on so many levels." "Yes, I love the way he talks about you. Very harmless and friendly." The woman admitted, batting lashes, bucking eyes. "Well, know Quinn has all the tools a man needs to build the right house if you get what i'm saying. Help him put a roof on it. You'll have the team you're looking for." Mahogany grinned like a devious Cheshire cat, telling one lie after the other, wanting badly to tell her to wake up, that his true interest was money, a hot meal, a warm bed. The woman appeared a tad uncomfortable, shuffling loose coupons, clearing her throat before speaking. "Yep,  i catch your drift.  I'm glad we met . If it were left to him i don't think we would have.  T hink I better head to the counte r . These dinners aren't going to cook themselves . N ice meeting you!"  The woman exposed both rows of teeth in a high pitch voice, strolling away with the cart.  "You too, take care." Mahogany said, roll ing  e yes behind the woman's back, reversed the cart, kept shopping.

Hours Later

Enjoying a few hours before work, Mahogany laid on her plush, gray and black, Japan- imported sectional while eating a bowl of lavender honey ice-cream. She wore her white, Victoria Secret-laced negligee while plastering her eyes on her seventy-inch, flat screen television. Slowly taking a bite, she whispered out loud to herself as she watched a cliff hanger to one of her favorite soap operas. "They sure know how to keep you coming back for more." She continued to eat and watch the scenes unfold as she refused to blink for

fear she would miss important details. Minutes later, the credits were rolling when an idea popped into her head. She felt sexy and delectable while remembering seeing the characters of the show emulate passion and love toward each other caused her body to fein for the same. Going to work hot and bothered was out of the question. She grabbed the remote and hit the "off" button while sitting the bowl on the coffee table. She proceeded down the hall and to her spacious bedroom heading toward the dresser. She opened

the third drawer, reached under the lingerie and pulled out a large, caramel-complexioned dildo shaped like the ideal penis of most women's imagination. With it in hand, she walked over to the nightstand and situated the phone so it wouldn't disturb her. She laid down on the bed feeling relaxed on her gold, goose-feathered Ralph Lauren comforter. She found it easy to connect with a very familiar zone. While sexily sliding her panties off one leg at a time, she closed her eyes and began drifting in thought of picturing the man of her

dreams passionately touching and kissing her to no end. She slid the straps from her shoulders and gently ran her fingertips along her firm nipples while lightly squeezing her breasts. She felt a wave of warmth circulate though out her body as she glided the dildo alongside her inner thighs. She moaned and licked her lips as her legs began to widen with each soft touch. She was now submerged in the tender confines of her heaven locked in an embrace of pure pleasure. She knew what she liked, knew what she wanted as she commenced to taking care

of a void she so desperately longed to fill.

Half hour later and freshly showered, Mahogany turned the pages of an old photo album full of pictures of herself, friends and family while sitting up in bed. She came across a picture of her mother wrapping her arms around her while she held a toy microphone singing as if she knew every word to a song. Her relatives were in the background cheering her on. She noticed her mother's eyes were filled

with so much love and joy while watching her baby take a song by storm at such a young age. She took the picture from the album and flipped it over. It read "Gigi's birthday party - My sunshine singing Angel  By Angela Winbush - 4 years old" She smiled and chuckled inside thinking of how she must've sounded then. She continued to stroll down memory lane when her eyes fell upon a seven year old picture of herself and Quinn laughing at an amusement park with ketchup and mustard smeared on their faces. It took

her back to the exact moment of feeling completely in love with him again. It felt like yesterday and in seconds, pain began to creep its way to the front of her heart. She let out a deep sigh and quickly closed the photo album and shoved it under the bed. She knew It was imperative to shake off any lingering emotions realizing it could cause a sudden rise in clouded judgment the next time she spoke to him. Hopping off the bed and heading to the closet for an outfit for work, she checked her unproductive emotions at the door

keeping it clear in her mind that her ex-husband would never get another day of her life as being the love of her life.

"Ambitions of love. The pursuit of happiness. We fly  hiiigggh in pursuit of what  truly makes this place...we call the universe.....go 'round. Seems so easy to attain....and for many, right in the palm of our hands, through the roots of our fingers, falling deeper....and deeper, away from our most  simple

dream....love. What is real  love to you? You are now listening to Mahogany's lover of life session ZZWP and I am indebted to you for tuning in on this rainy, yet beautiful evening." Mahogany's tone was low and elegant as she let her voice travel through the microphone into the homes and offices of D.C. While speaking, she pressed the button to activate the first call. "Hello caller. Thank you for gracing us this evening. What is your name and what does love mean to you?" She took a sip of her raspberry spice tea while listening

to a train go by in the caller's background. The male caller's voice was deep and sensuous. "Hello, Mahogany. It's always a pleasure to listen to your voice. I'm not going to leave a name because I plan on calling more often, if that's ok with you." He said sexily. Intrigued, she seductively smiled while responding. "Of course, its fine. This is why i'm here." She went on attentively listening. "You asked what does real love mean? To me, its realizing you're wrong and having the guts to admit and apologize when you're wrong. It's taking

care of someone when they're sick even when you're mad at them. It's loving unconditionally even when you see all of their flaws. I could go on, but I know you have to take other calls..." His voice trailed off into a light chuckle. Placing the cup on the desk and adjusting her headphones, she was unable to fight of another smile. She enjoyed his take on love and thought to herself that his other half is a lucky person. She composed herself in order to stay on track. "Have to agree with you there. You've clearly been doing your homework. Real love

should never have boundaries or limits. Thank you for sharing that." She replied softly. "No, thank  you , my queen." He added in the same tone. She smiled to herself and waited for him to hang up. She went on taking calls shedding her wisdom and letting listeners call in until commercial break.

Hours flew by as it was nearing the end of her shift. Mahogany looked up at the clock and began wrapping up the show with words of knowledge. Light from the hallway invaded the booth as she noticed someone had opened the

door and began waiting for her attention. Minutes later, she pulled off the headphones and turned toward the visitor with a smile while speaking. "Hey, what's up Tim? What are you still doing here?" She asked politely. "When am I  ever  home? I've got to learn to say "no" more often. I should probably take a class for passive aggressiveness, huh?" He said standing with his Sean John pink coat and hat on, man bag looped around his chest. She laughed as she walked around the booth preparing to go home. She noticed he had a bushel of

white roses in his hand. "If you never get to go home, maybe the class might not be such a bad idea. I see someone was blessed with flowers today...mmh, very nice." She said with an eye-brow slightly raised. Tim's voice elevated like a woman. "I  wish . Honey, these are for you." He shot back. She stopped shuffling papers and looked up with a questioned expression. "What? From who? I know you read the card." She exclaimed joking around since they'd become comfortable with each other over the last four weeks. Laying the

flowers on her desk with a huge smile, he answered while joking back. "I started to, but I said no, they are  not for me. I have to be professional and mind my own beeswax and give them to the  rightful  owner. They arrived hours ago. I would've brought them sooner, but the boss had me on back-to-back conference calls." He added rolling his eyes. She gave him a playful, roguish eye with a closed smile as she picked up the flowers and smelled them. She decided to read the card at home to give herself pleasant dreams while drifting off to

sleep. "Alright, if you say so. Now go, get out of here and get some "you" time. I'll see you tomorrow." She said. Adjusting his man bag, Tim waved good-bye while ending the conversation. "Adios amiga!"

Mahogany made her way to her personal parking space with several manilla folders in arms, office bag and purse over her shoulder and flowers in hand. The sounds of her heels echoed through the nearly deserted parking garage as she hit the keyless remote on

the Mercedes. She opened the door and began laying her belongings in the passenger seat when she suddenly heard a man's voice. "Need help with anything?" He said. Realizing she was hunched over with her behind in full view, she abruptly turned around from being startled. "No, thank you. I'm usually not the jumpy type, but do you always sneak up on women at night like this?" She said letting out a sigh while straightening her navy blue DKNY pantsuit. Facing him with her back to the open car door and hitting the

window power button, she was relieved to find he was clearly a professional man as he was dressed in a very well tailored, expensive suit and tie. His shoes were Stacy Adams with facial features fit for a movie screen. A small gust of wind sent an alluring scent of his cologne into her nose as she noticed he wasn't wearing a wedding ring. His stunning diamond bracelet danced in the over-head lights as he slightly moved his arm while responding with grace and extreme sex appeal. "I'm sorry for scaring you and no I don't usually sneak up on women like

this. I knew who you were and had to take the opportunity to say hello. My name is Marvin, I work in the next building. I'm a fan of your show and never miss a session. Please forgive me." She gave a relaxed smile while attempting to get in the vehicle. "Well in that case, you're forgiven. Call in sometimes, we would love to hear your opinion." She added while proceeding to stick the key in the ignition determined to dismiss any thoughts that didn't involve her job. "I wish you had more time, then I could finish telling you what

real love means to me other than taking care of your sick loved one even when you're mad at them." He said smiling placing his hands in his slacks' pockets. Without looking at him, she returned a smile hesitating to turn on the engine. Seconds passed before she turned in his direction and answered. "So that was you earlier this evening? I knew your voice sounded familiar. Sometimes a caller can reach someone even if i'm not able. I really appreciated you taking the time to connect with us. Now, if you'll excuse me..." He interrupted her

sentence. "I'm going to go out on a limb and do something, yet again, I never do. Will you have lunch with me sometimes? Maybe tomorrow? Just a sandwich over a little conversation. I'm harmless, I promise." She looped her hair around her ear as she smiled not wanting to answer right away. She tried to remember the last time she'd seen a man that looked this attractive. The waiter from the lounge crossed her mind, but he didn't hold a candle to this one. Sensing she was a woman strictly about her business, he spoke again to

diminish the pressure. "Just think about it. Nothing heavy. I'm only one building away. I hope you like your flowers, I figured white roses was a nice gesture to say I appreciate your show. If you decide to take me up on the offer, my information is on the card." He said secretly admiring her beauty. Starting the engine with butterflies doing back flips and jumping jacks in her stomach, Mahogany kept her cool as she put the vehicle in reverse while replying with a smile. "I get the feeling you don't take no for an answer. The flowers  were  a nice

gesture. Thank you. I'll think about your proposal. Have a good night." She pulled off waiting until she was too far away for him to know she was looking at him in the rear view mirror. She watched him sound the alarm to a brand new Red Lexus that sat four cars from her parking space. She exited the garage unsure of what to make of it all. She wondered what his agenda was and for a split second, wondered what it would be like to have someone to go home to again. If not anything else, one thing she was certain of, which was she didn't

need a man coming into her life rocking the boat.

CHAPTER 3

Days turned into weeks, weeks turned into months with four years under her belt at ZZWP. With each passing session, Mahogany continued to make the radio station a success while staying focused keeping men off of her

mind. Luck played its part and in a short period of time spending just about every waking moment on getting her name, face and show out there, her call volume ballooned with an undeniable fan base that generated ratings by far exceeding the previous host and the history of the show. With doing countless local and national radio interviews, several television appearances and four magazine spreads, it became impossible to move about town without someone recognizing her. Due to her over-night fame, she grew suspicious of everyone

and found it exhausting trying to figure out each person's motive for hanging on. Even though she was an instant hit, she was lonelier than ever.

"Is it ok if we take a break, Miss  boss ? We've been moving since eight o'clock. I'm hungry." Deeply sighing, Leslie sat her ninth box on the eighteen-wheeler moving truck as she sarcastically spoke. Making light of the

matter that her best friend was leaving town was her only way to keep from crying every half hour. "I haven't packed the food yet, no one said you couldn't eat and move at the same time. Help yourself, girl." Mahogany replied while writing the word "bathroom" in black marker on the side of a huge cardboard box on the front lawn. Carrying a small box under her arm and talking with her agent on the cellphone, Shay switched her hips from side to side in her canary, beaded Moshino jeans as she sat it on the truck. She let out a tiresome breath

as if she'd been moving large boxes all along. Leslie and Mahogany looked at each other and shook their heads as to say Shay wouldn't know hard labor if it fell on top of her head. "I'm really going to miss you, Mahogany. Not having you close by is going to take some getting use to. Why do you have to move so far anyway?" Leslie said fighting back tears watching one of the movers carry two of her China set, dinning room chairs out. Shay interjected. "Les, it's not  that far. Boston is a few hours away. We can visit whenever we want. You know that and if

you're ever low on funds, we  never have a problem with springing for you." Mahogany cosigned. "That's right. No amount of distance will break our bond and with all of the communication technology today? Girl, please. Of course, it may not be  exactly like it use to be, but we'll get use to it. I have to make this move and see what else is out there. Who knows? Maybe i'll meet Mr. Right. You don't want me to miss out on him, now do you? Did you ever think Mr. Right might have a cousin named Mr. up? Because if he does? He's yours.

I'm just throwing that out there." She said waving her arms as if she was going to go on and on. All of the women chuckled with Shay adding her response. "Mr.  Right . Now theeerrre's a thought. I'll say this...Mahogany you've worked so hard to get to where you are now. If you meet a nice guy, who really seems like he likes  you and not your money or what you can do for him, as soon as you hit Boston's soil, give him a chance. Nothing wrong with dinner and a movie, plus Newbury street and the Copley Mall is waiting for you to walk in and rack up

on new lingerie. Trust me, when I visit the Bean, they keep my credit card on lock down." Mahogany let out a deep sigh while running her fingers through her hair smiling and speaking in a joking manner. "Heeeerrree we go. I got this, ok? And as far as your credit card? You mean you keep your credit card on lock down. You know you spend everything you make, Shay. Les, did you see that  "train" coming?" Leslie answered Mahogany's question. "Yes, but you opened the "tracks" for that train to barrel its way through nosyville." The

women exploded into laughter with Shay yelling out with her finger pointed to the sky. "Bazinga!"

Two days later at 9pm. Happily navigating her way though the halls of her astonished, immaculate penthouse on Commonwealth avenue, Mahogany headed toward the bathroom to freshen up. She had been unpacking all day with barely taking a break. She turned the shower on, felt the temperature of the water when she heard the faint sound of

the cordless phone ringing from the living room. Hurrying to answer before it stopped, she quickly grabbed the receiver while slightly out of breath. "Mahogany speaking!" "Hi. Didn't think you were going to answer, did I catch you at a bad time?" He asked. "No, not at all. I was just getting ready to take a shower. How was your flight?" She held the phone tight to her ear feeling like a school girl. His voice sounded better than she'd remembered. "Long. Ya know, I still can't believe you moved around the corner from one of my

properties. I can't tell you how happy I was that I went with my gut feeling and approached you in the garage that night...and now look at us. Seventh date, fresh off a flight, on my way to see you." She felt like she was flying as she listened to his every word ecstatic that she'd made him wait in order to get him to respect her mind and character before anything else. "Well, even though it took me three years to call, i'm glad I decided to give us a chance. After my divorce, my job was always first, nothing else mattered, but I realize God gives you

signs and somehow, you just know to act on certain ones. I can't  wait to see you." She seductively responded. "Absolutely and I can't wait to see you, too. Timing is everything and speaking of time, i'm waiting for a cab and here comes one now. I'll be there soon." "Alright." She hung up the phone and began swirling around the room like a ballet dancer who'd been chosen for the biggest performance of all. She had placed her love-life on hold far too long and it was time to enjoy the fruits of her labor, time to experience what grew foreign inside

of her heart....time to follow her own advice and submit to the one thing everyone sought....real love.

Hour and a half later . Smelling heavenly in a Chinese-inspired, white silk robe that draped perfectly over her figure-eight shape wearing red Christian Louboutin heels, Mahogany took a deep breath and answered the door. There he stood with a smile with red roses in hand, smelling sensational and looking

fine. His muscular neck, arms and hands were a delightful hint of what was left to her imagination. Both offered a few seconds to take in their exquisite views. Time froze as they swam in each others eyes ready to devour. She slowly took a step forward, closed her eyes and gently kissed Marvin on the lips. He grabbed her around the waist and allowed his lips to give her the welcome she deserved. They embraced as if it was their last moment together. Not wanting to give too much at once, she slightly pulled back speaking smooth and low

while her nose touched his "Hi. I missed you. Come in." She grabbed his hand and began walking backward into her home as she faced him. He swallowed hard while letting out a deep breath as he stepped through the threshold of her penthouse. "Woman, you look absolutely breath-taking. Please pinch me because I still don't think this is real. These are for you, my queen." He calmly replied handing her the flowers as he couldn't believe how well she'd done for herself and how great she looked in her silk robe. Responding, she took the

flowers from his hand and held them under her nose. "Thank you, babe. You're going to spoil me. If I don't get flowers every time you see me, i'm going to think something's up. Make yourself at home. I hope you're hungry." She said speaking from a distance as she sexily branched off into the kitchen. Marvin found an extremely comfortable love seat and took a load off. He lifted his voice. "The cabs here and the ones in New York and D.C. are  definitely  different. I figured the faster they go, the quicker the money they make. My guy?

Babe, trust me when I say, you would've sworn it was the opposite." He said. Carrying a bottle of Canelli-based Moscato and two wine glasses, she smiled as she lead the way to the dining room. He winked following without instruction as he walked over to a chair and motioned for her to sit. Kissing her on the cheek, he gently took the bottle and glasses from her hand indicating equality. The table was beautifully set with a full-course meal, lit aroma candles, fine dinner napkins and silverware. "This is heaven, isn't it?" She

said fixing their plates as Marvin poured the wine. "Yes, and as long as we have each other, it only gets better from here." He replied as his facial expression read that he couldn't wait to have her all to himself.

They spent the next hour eating, laughing and enjoying each others company while matching wits mesmerized by the charm they both possessed. Once done with dinner, they shared the remainder of the wine over a warm, butter and almond-glazed, red velvet cake in which they decided to take

to the bedroom finally consummating their perfect relationship.

"I called twice this week, ma. I don't like it when you don't answer. It makes me worry." Mahogany spoke with a gentle, concerned tone as she spoke noticing her mother sounded more tired than usual. The cordless was cradled between her shoulder and chin while washing a plate. "I know, baby. First time, I must've been at my appointment. The second, I was probably taking a nap.

You don't have to  worry about me, your father's always here." Her mother said in a soothing tone. "I know, but it doesn't make me feel any better. Did you go for a routine appointment?" She asked. "It was routine for me. Dr. Shapiro had me see a specialist yesterday. He felt a small lump under my right breast, but don't  worry Mahogany, he said i'm  very  healthy and he doesn't think it's trouble. I eat plenty of vegetables and fruit. Always have, why do you think you love oranges and raspberries so much?" Listening to her mother's voice, she felt

tears welling up in her eyes with a pain that began to sear through her heart. The thought of losing her, her unconditional support system, was unfathomable. She took a few seconds to respond while sitting at her kitchen table to gain composure. Her voice took on a mournful tone. "A lump and you tell me  not  to worry? Have you told daddy?" She replied looking up at the ceiling to keep the tears from rolling down. "No and i'm not going to because he's only going to worry just like you're doing now. Doctor says we'll have the

results of the biopsy soon. Everything's  fine , Mahogany. You hear me?" Mahogany's tears fell without permission as they slid down her face and onto the table. She felt powerless and vulnerable. Answering with a tremble in her voice, she used the bottom palm of her hand to wipe them away deciding to believe her. "Yes ma, I hear you." Her mother went on talking. "Now, because we're Johnsons, we don't end things off on a bad note. Please tell your mother you're at least dating someone nice. Are you tired of your bed

being cold or what?" Feeling a tinge of embarrassment, she mustard up a smile sensing her mother had one as well. She contemplated whether if it was too soon to tell her about Marvin. "Yes, i'm  dating , ma. I know you want little hard-headed grandchildren running around your house one day." Her mother chuckled while responding. "Good. Your father told me to tell you he loves you and come home as soon as you have the time." "Ok. Tell him I love him too. Try not to do too much house work, ma. I want you to relax." Her mother ended

the conversation. "I won't. I love you sunshine. Talk to you later...  kiss ,  kiss ."

Having her own floor for the show, Mahogany hit the "on air" button as she got comfortable in her seat to greet her fans. She spoke in her usual calm docile, yet seductive tone. Her mother's face flashed in her mind as she thought about the bad news she'd given her. "You are now listening to lover of life and I am Mahogany Johnson....your

host for this  splendid evening. Once again, this session is for all of you. Life is  so  short and we must spend every moment appreciating what is precious to us. At the end of the day, what do we have? Not our fancy cars, houses, jewelry, clothes or money, no my loves, its the  people that mean the most to us. We tend to put them last thinking they will always be there.....be there to  support us when our spirits suddenly get low. Sometimes when they need us, we're not available for some shallow reason. What does your support system

mean to you? Now i'm talking about the people you can count on, the ones who love you when the storms are rocking your boats on the  verge  of irreversible damage and disaster. The ones who are left standing to help you pick up the pieces when everyone else has jumped ship. Let us hear your voices and thoughts, give us your hearts, minds and souls. One call can make a difference because when you're feeling down and you're ready to throw in the towel...know this ...someone cares.  I care." Like clockwork, the calls began to

flood the board as she took the first one. "Hello, thank you for calling in to lover of life. What is your name and what does your support system mean to you?" The young, female caller spoke with a deep southern accent. "Hi. My name is Cynthia Dupree and I just wanna say I  love ya show. My support system means  everything to me. Without them, I don't know  where  I would be. Aunt Reeree, mama Floyd, cousin Sharon...respect the ones you love 'cause when they're gone, you can't bring them back and...." Keeping track of time and watching the

levels, Mahogany politely interrupted. "Cynthia, you couldn't be more right. You've made your family proud with such a heart felt comment. Thank you for taking the time to give the listeners your love." "...oh, ok. Thank you, Mahogany." "You're so welcome." Without hesitation, she went for call two while greeting them. An elderly man cleared his throat and began talking loudly. " Aaaaaammmeeen ! What a  blessed program. I thought i'd  never  get through,  praise  Jesus let glory be the God for he is  my  savior,  our  savior. Miss

Mahogany, God  is my support system and for those who are listening, listen to me now, God will take ya through, because  God!. ..." Interjecting politely while fighting off a smile, she spoke into the mic. "Bringing back the church and the holy spirit. I love it, sir. Our listeners need to know prayer is key. Sir, we thank you for calling in." "And thank you  Miss Mahogany. Alright now, take care."

After many calls, it was time for commercial as her words of encouragement blended over a soft

instrumental jazz tune. Dwelling on her mother's condition had become an obstacle she found difficult to further ignore. She completed the session hoping to God he'd answer her prayers while she helped listeners gain hope in their own situations. An offer of resolution per her request from her prayers...to God's ears.

Four days later. Hopping into the car with her gym bag in tow on a bright

Saturday morning, Mahogany held her cell a few inches from her mouth as she spoke with agitation. "Of course i'm doing well, it doesn't mean I have to become your personal bank, Quinn. I loaned you money before and I have  yet to see a dime." Pulling off, she listened to his excuses while looking left to right. "I know. I was going to pay you, but I lost my job. Do you think I would ask my ex- wife for some more money if I had someone else to ask?" He said with his voice coming through the speaker. "Yes, I do and you want to know  why,  Quinn?

Because I was  once your wife. I'm a good person. You and I  both  know, i'm a  gooood  person. Ok, I'm on my way to the gym and I need this work out, so how much?" She said shifting her eyes. Quinn lowered his voice while muffling the words. "Twelve hundred." Slowing the vehicle to let a squirrel cross, she ran her french- manicured nails through her short hair while letting out a long, deep sigh. "Wow. Ya know, if i'm going to loan you that  much money, you should at  least tell me why you need it." She said feeling annoyed by the second. "Rent.

My contacts are procrastinating. I should be ok next month." He added. Ready to get on with her day and release some stress on gym equipment, she calmly replied. "Alright. I'll wire the money later this afternoon. I'll let you know when it's all set." Speaking with a tail- between-his-legs tone of voice, Quinn added. "Thank you. I know you don't want to hear it, but I still love you and..." She interrupted his sentence while turning into the parking lot of the gym. "You're right. I don't want to hear it. I'll talk to you later, Quinn. Tell mama

Josephine I said hello." She disconnected the line without waiting for his response.

That same Saturday at 6:30pm. "It's  ok , Marvin, I know you wanted to be here with me tonight. We have to admit, coming up for air has been our downfall, but we know if we want to keep living our comfortable lives, we have to work. I understand that." Covering her disappointment with a

good attitude and a smile, Mahogany sat Indian style on her bed while holding the cellphone to her ear. His voice and everything about him turned her on like no other man had. "You got that right, babe. I'm sorry,  believe me, I tried to get out of the meeting, but Fortworth changed his proposal at the last minute which caused an avalanche of modifications. Its back to the drawing board on this one and for me? It's back in the office first thing tomorrow morning. I know it's Sunday, but i'm not taking any chances." He said. Hearing

his heart-felt, genuine tone gave her comfort as she let out an undetected sigh. She decided to be sexily playful to keep their passion torch going. "Guess I have to handle my business since i'm not going to see my man tonight. Candles, wine, heels, that red little number you like? Yup, all on hold until my king comes back to his queen." "Mmh, don't do this to me babe, you know I like it when you talk naughty. You're such a smart, classy lady and a freak.  My kind of woman." He replied joining the fun. Blushing with slight embarrassment, she

giggled as she couldn't believe she was getting fresh with him over the phone. "Sorry, sweety. I just had to tell you what was and is  going down tonight." She added while picturing him straddling her for the umpteenth time. Moments later, her call-waiting beeped. She checked the screen to see who it was. "Honey, I have another call. It's my best friend Shay." "Go ahead, babe. I want to wrap up here, get home so I can get an early start. I'll call you before I go to bed." "Alright, kisses and hugs." Sighing, she pressed her call-waiting

button and spoke. Right away, she noticed her friend was not in a good mood. "Hey Shay, what's up?" "Mahogany, i'm a pretty  intelligent girl, right? Like, I don't have  stupid written on my forehead, right?" "No, why? What's the matter?" Shay heavily sighed as she began to chronologically and verbally shoot out the events. "Tariq. This man asks me to come over, I go, I see his bedroom lights on half way down the street, I ring the bell, I look, lights are  off. I call his cell, he doesn't answer. Calls me back  ten  minutes later, tells me

he's not home, his mother had some sort of inexplicable  emergency." She angrily said. Mahogany spoke with a careful and loving tone. "I'm not trying to be funny Shay, but it seems to me his mother has quite a few of  emergencies every time you turn around. I told you how I felt when he had emergency number  four  two months ago. Honey, he's not good enough for my girl. Point blank. I said it  then and i'm saying it now.  I love you and that's all there is to it." Speaking with confidence, Shay responded while gathering her self-esteem in between the

lines. "I tried to give him a chance, but  evidently , he doesn't know what he has. I'm Shay Monroe. One of the  hottest models  in  New York. Pulling down countless shoots a day when everyone else want to call it a day and party. I  really  don't have to deal with this, you know what i'm saying, girl?" Switching to laying on her stomach, Mahogany answered. "You don't have to tell me. I  know what you're worth. The question is, does  he ? And honestly? To keep it real? We already know the answer, don't we? Just by his actions, tells us he hasn't

a clue  who's been giving him the time of day all this time. Makes me mad. I'm sorry for getting riled up, girl." "Mahogany girl, if I never told you? I love you and I mean that from the bottom of my heart." Mahogany collected herself while lowering her voice out of feeling hurt for her best friend. "I know. I love you too. I have a confession." "What?" "I've been seeing someone, his name is Marvin and girl trust me when I say, he's fabulous all the way around the board. I'm going to leave it at that for now, because I don't want

you to think i'm lifting myself up when you're feeling down, so we'll talk about the rest later. I just didn't want to keep it a secret from you guys any longer. I wanted to make sure he was going to be around for a while." She said. Feeling better, Shay attempted to end the conversation with a smile. "Holding out, huh? Well girl i'm glad you took my advice and went for yours. No one deserves it more than you. I'm going to finish my laundry, i'll call you later." "Alright, I love you and remember, like you said earlier, you're Shay Monroe,

the baddest model  in  NY. If you have to stick the words on the fridge, stereo, bathroom door, do it." Both women chuckled, said their good-byes and hung up.

CHAPTER 4

May 10th

After a very productive and successful radio show, an exhausted Mahogany gathered her things, left the office and proceeded toward her car as she did every night. By far, the garage was bigger than the one in D.C. with

several bulbs blown from over-use. Only three vehicles remained parked many feet away in all directions. It was 11:45pm and getting home to her bed seemed like heaven by every means. Reminding herself for the third time, she unlocked the trunk and began searching for the windshield washer fluid. A few minutes later, she heard the cocking of a gun behind her. It shattered the silence sending her heart into sheer panic. She quickly turned around as she faced a nine millimeter pointed directly at her forehead. Dropping the office bag

on the ground, she raised her hands to show she was defenseless. Trembling with her chest heaving up and down, she spoke. "W-what do you  want ? Please  don't hurt me." The gunman was dressed in black, ski mask covered to the neck, wearing black leather gloves. "Shut up,  bitch! I won't hurt you if you give me what I want !  Where's the money!" He said speaking low and sinister. She glanced around her surroundings praying to God that someone would see what was happening. To her dismay, she was all alone. "I have credit cards and

thirty dollars in my wallet. I don't carry much.  Please. .. don't hurt me." she said nervously. Knowing that women were raped at an alarming rate across the globe, it was the one time she'd wished she hadn't dressed so attractively. The gunman's crazed eyes pierced her shapely body through her clothes, looking at her from head to toe. He was getting turned on with each breath she took. She attempted to divert his attention. "Here, take my jewelry. It's worth a whole lot. If you'll let me, i'll give you my cards and money too." With

tears in her eyes, Mahogany began to frantically take off her Tiffany's custom-made, diamond bracelets, ring and watch. Suddenly, out of nowhere, the lights of a red Lexus brightly shined on them as it accelerated close to maximum speed within seconds. Realizing he ran out of time, the gunman quickly turned in its direction then took off running disappearing out of another exit. Sobbing, she threw her hands to her face as she collapsed sitting at the edge of the opened trunk. With tires screeching and coming to an abrupt halt, Marvin

jumped out of his vehicle, ran toward her and hugged her tight while speaking out of fear, anger and desperation. " Baby ! Are you alright! Did he hurt you! That  son of a bitch ! Thank God I followed my mind! You're ok babe, you're ok....shshhhh." She was too hysterical to answer questions. He rocked her in his arms as she cried relieved she was safe again.

Forty minutes later after a police report was taken, she was slowly, but surely, coming back to a stable frame of mind. Still in the garage, they sat in

Marvin's car as they watched the last reporter drive away. She felt up to talking about what happened. "He had this disturbing  look in his eyes, ya know? I thought I was going to  die, Marvin. When I saw your car, I couldn't  believe  God spared my life. This could've ended so differently." She said letting out a tiresome breath. He sadly answered while shaking his head and gently rubbing her thigh to comfort her. "Babe, I  know . I drove into town to surprise you. My first thought was to wait for you in front of your house, but

then I realized I missed you so much, I couldn't wait to see your face, so I decided to catch you while you were getting off. I'm not comfortable with you leaving work at this time of night, babe. As you can see, it's too dangerous. Either we need to look into a body guard or you change to earlier hours. You're  known, honey. You need  protection." He exclaimed as his eyes roamed the top half of her body. Not wanting to face reality that changes should be made, also, telling her friends and family what happened, she sighed again looking

through the window at her vehicle. "Can we get out of here. I've had enough for one day." She added. "Alright. If you don't feel like driving, we can call a flat bed to get your car home, if that's what you want." "No, that's ok, babe. I'm alright, I'll drive. Just stay close behind." She said reaching for the door handle to get out of the vehicle. "You got it." He quickly said gazing at her making it known he would be at her beck and call.

1:18pm , o ne day after the robbery scare. Taking the day off to recooperate while appointing one of her staff to operate the show, Mahogany spent most of the morning talking with family and friends letting them know she was ok. Leslie and Shay babied her for about a half hour on a conference call before getting back to work. Quinn hadn't called which annoyed her like a nat at a barbeque, especially since she'd loaned him a substantial amount of money. Marvin was in the kitchen cooking a late breakfast while she laid in bed with a

slight headache. Laying on one side wearing only his white, crisp designer tank top and her purple-laced Victoria Secret panties, she held the cordless phone to her ear. "No, daddy. I don't need you to fly out, i'm ok. My friend rescued me in time. Seeing that gun scared me half to death, though. The police are going to handle it from here." She said innocently. "Ok. Your mother tells me you're doing a lot of good with your radio program. We're proud of you, but nuts come with the territory, ya know? Can't they give you security?" Her

father asked with a stern and highly concerned tone. She closed her eyes and rubbed her forehead while listening to a repetitive question. "I'll look into it, daddy." "Please do, sunshine. Your mother wants to talk to you now. I love you." "Alright, love you too." She listened to her parents exchange respectful words in the background as she waited for her mother to get on the phone. Seconds later, her mother began speaking. "Sunshine, you ok? Girl, we almost had a  heart attack when we heard it on the news this morning."

"Yes. I'm fine, ma. The news will report a story faster than you can get to your family, that's why you heard about it there first. I wasn't going to call you last night." "Thank  God you're ok. Well, I'm sure you must be tired, so i'm not going to keep you long. I wanted to give you some  news  of my own. My biopsy tests came back. Everything's negative." Throwing up one arm, Mahogany lit up with joy as she felt a delightful presence and a soft kiss on her cheek. Marvin smiled while quietly sitting a tray of scrambled eggs, home fries, maple

bacon, buttered blueberry pancakes and a glass of freshly squeezed orange juice beside her in bed. " Really , ma! Thank you Jesus! That's  great news!" "Yes, it is sweetheart. Now we're going to let you go. Too much excitement after what happened last night isn't good. Call us later, we love you." "Ok, I love you, ma." She hung up the phone, stretched out her arms and motioned to Marvin to give her a big hug and kiss. Without words, he did just that as she possessed only two thoughts.....God is real and she's completely in love.

Two months later . "I  now pronounce you.... husband... and wife." Both dressed in Versace outfits, coordinating colors of gold and black, Mahogany and Marvin embraced and passionately kissed each other as soon as the reverend released the words into the air. Everyone present clapped and whistled. A few staff from the justice of the peace office, Shay and Leslie sat as they watched two people in love start their life as an official union. The office staff dispersed while Shay and Leslie

approached the smiling couple. Leslie spoke first while giving Mahogany a hug and Marvin eye contact. "Aaww, you guys look so beautiful  together. I'm  so  happy for you." She said squeezing her. Marvin and Mahogany answered in unison with a "thank you" while Mahogany went on to speak with pure joy in her eyes. "Thank you so much for coming. Next time, it'll be a  big  wedding with the works." Afterward, Shay joined in smiling and hugging them one by one while keeping her words in check in front of Marvin. "Yes, you two were

meant for each other. Mahogany, I would  love to stay, but I have to fly back to New York today. I'll be ready for the real date, you just give me a holler when it's time." Sliding both hands in his pockets, Marvin smiled at Mahogany's friends then proceeded to walk away to talk with an associate he recognized. Having privacy amongst themselves, the women began to talk candidly. "Girl, I know you love the man, but why like  this ? A shot gun wedding? Your parents are  not  going to be happy about their little  sunshine getting married in the city

hall building." Shay spoke relieved she was able to say what she was thinking the entire ceremony. Sucking her teeth, Leslie answered Shay in Mahogany's defense. "Did you  hear her? This is  not  the real  wedding. She's grown. Everyone doesn't handle  everything the way you would, Shay." " Thank you , Les. Besides, this is what we  both wanted. He wants me to be his wife  now . Not a minute later and yes, I wanted the same. I'm not telling my parents until I schedule the one she's been looking forward to since  forever . She wants to play with her

grandchildren while she's still young." Mahogany added while smelling her bouquet as she watched her new, fine husband talk with other men. Speaking with genuine concern, Shay rolled her eyes at the ceiling then sighed while looking at both women. "I'm not trying to be a downer, I'm just  saying  what's the rush, that's all? If you two really love each other than there's no reason why you couldn't wait to do it right." Leslie shook her head while Mahogany calmly responded. "Listen, I know you're concerned, but I got this. I love him and

he  loves me. I guess that night in the garage made me see things in a different way." "I was just going to say you must still be feeling vulnerable. Well, it's water under the bridge now. Either way, I love you. Alright ladies, I love you both, have to skedaddle, don't want to miss my plane." Shay replied while throwing her designer bag over her shoulder and securing her shades on top of her head. Leslie and Mahogany answered at the same time. "We love you, too." Leslie chimed in afterward. "I might as well go too. I have to take my

mother shopping." The women hugged, said their good-byes to the newlyweds, then went their separate ways.

Later that evening at Mahogany's penthouse. The couple laid in bed draped under each other after a long, steamy, love-making session. Sweat glazed their naked bodies as Mahogany began to speak with a low and sexy tone while looking up into Marvin's eyes. "Can you believe we did it?" "Yes, we've  been doing it and I gotta say, I want to

do it again. You're unbelievable in bed, babe." Marvin's voice was deep as he joked while stroking the hair on the sides of her temple. "Not  this , Marvin. Getting  married ." She chuckled as she playfully jabbed him in the side of the ribs. Yelling out as if he was really in pain, he laughed while replying. "Oh! The wedding ! Of  course I can believe it. I thought you were talking about something else." "No. I  wasn't and now that i'm your wife, i'm wondering what's next." She said sinking into his eyes. "Well, what's  next  is a threesome. You

know that's every man's fantasy." He said fighting a smile. She sucked her teeth and jabbed him again. "Listen. Marvin? You better stop playing with me. Unless you're trying to get divorced like say, tomorrow? I suggest  you center your mind on other things." She replied while lightly chuckling. "No, I  definitely  don't want to get divorced. You're off the market and that's the way it's going to stay." He said slowly gliding his finger along her breast. "Nooow you're saying something I can  actually  listen to. See, that wasn't hard right?

Getting back on track because I would  hate  to have to practice my Judo moves on you." She said with a smirk. "Ok,  now I want a divorce. You didn't tell me you're a lethal weapon. You would  actually  physically hurt me?" He playfully asked sliding his finger down the middle of her stomach stopping at her perfectly trimmed pubic hair. "What? I didn't tell you? I'm sorry sweetheart. Well,  now  you know." She replied feeling herself getting wet as she thought heaven couldn't possibly be better than this. She was going crazy

inside. "You know what?" He said. She answered while rubbing the hair on his chest secretly wishing he was serious about round two. "What?" She said with as much sex appeal she was able to gather. "Thank you for marrying me. I'm going to make you the happiest woman in this world...." His words softly dwindled off as he gently connected his lips with hers while expertly pushing his tongue inside her mouth. She closed her eyes as she enjoyed his patient, warm kiss that melted into the depths of her soul. Spending the next few minutes

slowly kissing and holding each other tight, she was yet again and again, for the rest of the night, blessed with her wish.

One week later.  With three bags of groceries in her arm and in a great mood, Mahogany gently kicked the door shut with her designer sandal and proceeded to the kitchen to sit them down. On her way back to lock the door, she almost lost her breath as she threw

her hand to her mouth. Her heart pounded as if it was coming through her chest. " What  are you doing here and  what's gotten into you!" She yelled with her eyes were wide as saucers. Swaying from side to side, high, dirty and disheveled, Quinn stood with angered, blood shot eyes. "H-how come you haven't answered any of m-my calls,  Mahogany ? I call you and call you..." Her mouth dropped unable to keep her eyes from the butcher knife he held tightly in his hand. "You're high! And why do you have a  knife, Quinn! What

the hell  is wrong with you!" She shouted again. He staggered two steps forward as he clenched his teeth in anger. " You !  That's what's wrong with me! You think I don't know? I tell you  everything , you think for once, just  once!  You could stop acting like miss fucking  innocent !" Trembling, she tried to reason with him. "Quinn, you're confused, honey. What did you take? What happened?  Talk to me." Without warning, he lunged knocking her to the ground as he held the knife to her throat. "You're fucking  married! Living like you don't give a

shit about anyone else but you and that  low-life ! How long d-did you think you were going to keep it a s-secret from me,  huh !" Baffled and confused herself since she knew she didn't owe him anything, she yelled out while racking her brain on where his raw emotions were coming from. She wondered who told him all of her business. Tears began to surface as she tried desperately to get him back to a sane frame of mind. "Quinn, I'm  sorry you feel this way! I didn't know you still cared, can we talk about this! I still love you, too.  Please ....put the knife down!"

Without responding and spiraling deeper into a crazed state, he tossed the knife and began viciously kissing her on the lips, along her neck and chest. He palmed her breasts as if he longed to touch them again. She squirmed and fought with all of her might in order to get him off of her. "Stop it, Quinn!  Stop !" Finally with everything in her, she managed to maneuver her leg to knee him in the scrotum. He yelled out in anguish while rolling over grabbing himself. "Ahhhhh! Ahhhhhh!" Quickly, she rose from the carpet, grabbed the

knife and stood over him while out of breath speaking venomously low. "You're sick.... you need help. Get  out  of my house. If you  ever  try this again, i'll drop so many charges on you, you'll  never  see the light of day." For a few seconds, she watched his face grimace as he laid moaning and groaning in a fetal position. She walked to her door and opened it. "Get out." She said without an ounce of sympathy. Pathetically rising to his feet with his head hung low, he shuffled to leave. In a last attempt, he spoke. "I'm s-sorry, I d-didn't mean it,

Can you help..." His words fell on deaf ears as she clenched her jaw cutting his words off. "Go."

Ten minutes later. Happy that he was gone, Mahogany's emotions quickly transformed into a total mess. She'd been horribly violated by two men in a short period of time and decided she would take her ex-husband's ordeal to the grave. Walking into the area of her home where the altercation had taken place, she noticed a torn, white-lined piece of paper laying on the carpet. Her Boston address was written in red ink

along with the words "Somber valentine". Glad that she'd always kept her home immaculate with floors vacuumed and rarely keeping company, she knew it belonged to Quinn. It wasn't his hand writing which drove her mad trying to figure who had given him this information and why he called Marvin a low-life. She sat on her couch while ruling out her parents, Leslie and Shay. She knew she could trust them with her life and that they would never betray her in a million years. Not coming up with anyone, she decided to head to the

bedroom to rest. She walked over to the dresser and placed the torn piece of paper under one of the components in her jewelry box. Wanting to forget what happened, she took two Advil, laid down and fell asleep.

CHAPTER 5

Three months later. Walking into her parent's beautiful, luxury, middle-class, two garage home with designer luggage in hand, Mahogany embraced her mother and father all giving

themselves a big group hug and kisses on the cheek. It had been several months since she'd seen their faces in person. "Aye ma! Daddy! Oh, I missed you all  sooo much!... kiss, kiss ." She said wrapping her arms around them. "My  sunshiiiine. How are you baby? You  know we've missed you. Get yourself in here." Her mother replied while lightly patting her on the behind. "How's Boston treating my girl? It seems like you haven't been here in so long. We  miss  you baby girl. As long as you're in one piece, happy and smiling, that's all

we care about."Her father said heading toward his favorite living room chair to sit. Surrounded by her roots and where she grew up, for the moment, made any problem she ever had disappear into thin air. "I know.  Mmmh.. ..smells so good in here, ma. What are you cooking?" She added wheeling her luggage and following behind her father. She kicked off her heels and plopped on the couch. "Your favorite. Gumbo shrimp, crab cakes, Swiss cheese puffs and home-made lemon sweet Italian sausage dumplings. Tall pitcher of cold

raspberry tea to wash it down." Her mother answered with a smile while heading to the kitchen to check on the food. "I told your mother it's not necessary to cook so heavy all the time. Maybe you can talk some sense into her. I tried ." He said while winking and smiling at her before turning his focus back to "This Old House". With the plastic furniture protecter crinkling, Mahogany rose from the couch and kissed her father on the cheek. "I'm not here mostly, so you have to make sure ma is taking it easy, daddy. The both of

you, for that matter. Let me see what she has going on in there." She said. "Alright." He replied keeping his eyes plastered on the television. She made her way down the hall toward the kitchen as the aroma from her favorite foods got stronger. Gazing at all of her childhood pictures and achievement awards along the way forced her to realize, once again, that her parent's love was parallel to none. Her mother was stirring the gumbo as she took a seat while popping a raw baby carrot into her mouth. "Aren't you going to ask me

where Marvin is?" She spoke to her mother's back. Dashing a sprinkle of garlic pepper in the pot while taste-testing, she answered. "We were going to wait for you to tell us what happened. We see he's not here with you." Mahogany tried her best not to sound sad. "Oh, well he's fine. He wanted to be here, but he had to work. He told me to tell you and daddy he's sorry for not being able to make it." "It's ok. We'll see him next time. Are things going ok? You know i'm  always here when you want to talk about anything." Her mind quickly

fell on the dip her and Marvin's relationship had taken. He'd gotten busier and didn't seem to have much time for her lately. She answered while sighing. "No, everything's ok, ma." "With you sighing that way, don't sound like it to me. Tell me what's wrong." Pleased that her mother pulled it out of her, she replied. "Well, the station is still doing very well, so no issue in that area. It's just that Marvin and I haven't spent much time together lately. I don't want to think negatively, but my mind is starting to go there." She said in an

unsure manner. Her mother scraped a few more vegetables in the pot. "Go there,  where ?" She asked. "There, as in, another woman possibly... maybe . I don't know, ma. I don't have any proof, it's just a feeling i'm getting." "If there isn't any proof, you  have  to trust him, sunshine. You said he's a hard worker. You've seen the proof from  that, right?" She sighed again feeling guilt for not telling her parents that she'd married him already. "Yes, from the very beginning and that didn't stop him from spending the time he spent with me.

Now, it's become a problem. I don't want to accuse him, nag or any of that. It took me a long time to get passed what Quinn use to do to me, but now I sort of feel like those subtle red flags are starting to pop up again." Her mother adjusted the flame to low under the gumbo pot then took a seat across from her. Her voice was calm and loving as she looked her daughter directly in the eyes. "Listen to me. Me and your father went through it too, but one thing I can say about that man is that he  never dogged me,  especially when you came

along. I had the same feelings your having now, minus what Quinn took you through. A lot of women want him and sometimes you wonder what he's really doing when he's not with you. We know that some women want what they can't have. The thoughts can drive us  crazy , but we have to have  trust. A relationship between two people who are madly in love doesn't stay the same. It has it's phases and the honey moon period wears off sooner than you can say the words. You know this, sweetheart. When you're feeling torn like this, you have to

put it in God's hands. Pray every night that he gives you the strength to make good decisions and put trust in your heart to be able to make it another day with the one you love, also staying focused on what you love to do. It's  very  important for two people to  admire one another as well as maintaining being in  love  with each other. I'm sure that's what drew you two together to begin with. If he's not disrespecting you, putting other women in your face, making you jump through unnecessary hoops to subliminally degrade you....give

him a  chance , sunshine, before you discard him because of baggage from your last relationship. When you do that, you let the last person continue to have control over your life. I know you want to marry Marvin someday. I taught you to always be honest with yourself in order to see what the truth really is. If there isn't any concrete proof that he's cheating, hang in there, but let him know how you're feeling. Let him know his baby is feeling a tad bit neglected. With men, they won't figure it out, you have to tell them. Do it over his favorite

meal and after a good romp in the sack." Mahogany felt better and appreciated every word of her mother's advice as they both laughed on the last sentence. "Oh my goodness, ma! T.M.I.! Too much information!" Her mouth froze open gazing at her. "What? Too much information, my  behind . Have I  ever strayed away from schooling my baby with the truth? You see you're father's still sitting in the living room after thirty one years, five months, three days, two hours and forty-five minutes, right?" She tilted her head with a smile while

rubbing one of Mahogany's hands. Once again, they roared with laughter until their sides hurt. It was just what she needed and for the next two days, she enjoyed every moment with two people who would trade their lives for hers.

One week later Saturday afternoon. Mahogany left the gym feeling refreshed and rejuvenated. Suddenly thinking of him, Marvin was a

permanent fixture in her mind and wondering his whereabouts had become the same. She hopped in her car, zipped through her iPod landing on "Choosey Lover" by the Isley Brothers while starting her ignition. She turned up the volume letting the beginning instruments of the song flow through her speakers as it soothed her. She pulled down the visor mirror and began getting her make-up back to perfection when her blackberry bold vibrated in her purse. Hoping it was Marvin, she quickly turned down the volume, fished for her

cell and answered without checking the number since it had rung several times. She spoke with a relaxed tone. "Hello." "Hello, Mahogany? You don't know me, but woman to woman, we  need to talk. We're both busy women, so this shouldn't take long." The woman spoke with sternness not interested in playing games or being her friend. One of Mahogany's eye brows raised as she didn't recognize her voice and wondered who the mysterious woman was. She sounded pretty. Mahogany returned with the same tone. "Ok,  who are you

and what is this about?" "Who I am is irrelevant . I just thought you should  know  me and Marvin have been seeing each other. He told me  all  about you. I'm just being a  woman  about it and letting you know since men take too long to handle this kind of business." Her heart dropped into the pit of her stomach as she began to feel hurt and rage engulf her body. She made certain she didn't let the woman know what she was feeling."Is that right? How long has this been going on?" She asked with a neutral attitude. The woman's voice got

nastier. "As long as  you've  been knowing him. We work together and we've  always  been friends. We're taking things to the next level and i've noticed you haven't gotten the hint. He's my man now, so I would  appreciate it if you wouldn't call him anymore." Being passed furious, Mahogany kept her composure as best as she could while aiming to get her point across. "Marvin and I are married , so whatever  fantasy you have going on in your head, I suggest  you see a shrink." She said slamming her thumb on the button to

disconnect the call. Her chest heaved up and down while seeing red from anger everywhere she looked. She turned off the ignition realizing it was impossible to drive. Wanting to get to the bottom of it, she quickly dialed Marvin's cell as she prayed to God to get her to a calm place in her mind. She held the phone to her ear listening to it ring as it seemed like an eternity. After three rings, he answered, unenthusiasticly, speaking first. "Hey, what's going on?" He asked calmly. Responding with venom, she didn't waste any time making him aware

she was upset and unhappy. "You tell  me.  I received a call from one of your  co-workers just a few minutes ago. She was busting out of the seams on wanting to tell me how  you and  her  are taking things to the  next level . What is that all about and how did this  woman  get my private number, Marvin?" Repeating the woman's words and realizing their relationship was now on a rocky path caused tears to cascade from her eyes. She trembled desperately waiting to hear an acceptable explanation. He let out a sigh not wanting to address the

situation but knew if he didn't, it would get out of control. "I think I know who you're referring to, this woman. Babe, she's  nothing more than a co-worker. Me, her and a few others have been working on a project together. We all went to lunch one afternoon, I must've sat my cell phone on the table and walked away for some reason. She's been interested in me for quite a while, but i've  never  been interested in her.  You're  the one I married. I need you to have faith in me... faith in  us . I love you." Watching a caucasian couple with

their children and a very well- groomed poodle happily strolling by, she mustard up a smile as one of the children made eye-contact with her. Seconds passed before she answered. "How do you think getting that call was going to make me feel? I can't  believe  you were that careless with your phone. I'm  not  feeling secure, Marvin. Not  living together and residing in different states doesn't help the situation." "I know. I've been working a lot of hours lately, projects I wasn't able to say no to. They were my ideas, if I want to see them materialize

into something lucrative, I have to stay vigilant over them. I thought you understood, babe." "I  do . It's just that you're not doing such a good job at balancing us and work. I'm sorry, but it has to be said and now getting this call?.... sigh ...I don't know, Marvin." She replied securing the backs to her earrings since she didn't know what else to do. He attempted to ease the tension by being playful. "Ok, I hear you loud and clear, babe. I'm sorry for neglecting you. I'll make it up if my most beautiful, sexiest chocolate drop will allow me the

opportunity." She blew her breath and began slowly cracking a smile tired of being on the outs with her new husband. She answered not completely letting him off the hook. "Oh, you can make it up, but take care of the situation, Marvin.  Apparently , she doesn't know who I am. I don't need anymore negative publicity or salted people making waves before my interview appearance in LA, so let her down gently." Without strife, Marvin agreed, blew a kiss over the phone and hung up first. Still unable to shake the nasty encounter with her husband's co-

worker, she started the vehicle, glanced at the gas gauge then put the car in drive. She thought about hating being upset at him but knew she had to put her foot down. She wished they could be like they use to be when they first met. It was a goal she was destined to reach, hopefully, not by any means necessary.

Three days later at a national and highly respected talk show in Los Angeles, CA.  "Please give a warm welcome and round of applause to the

very beautiful! And successful! Lover of Life's radio show, Mahogany Johnson everyone!" As soon as she emerged from the curtains, the audience went wild with thunderous claps and whistles as Mahogany elegantly walked with class while waiving at the crowd. Draped in one of the most expensive dresses, make-up and jewelry, wearing heels every woman would give their right arm for, she made her way to the sofa on stage as the host watched with pride and excitement. Her smile gleamed complimenting her newly- highlighted

hair as her ultrarich, sheek appearance ricocheted from one bright light to the next. Sitting like a lady to get comfortable still smiling showing all teeth, she sexily ran her fingers through her hair out of nervousness. The host began the segment without hesitation as she spoke to her. "Wow, they love you." Mahogany excitingly answered as her eyes scanned her yelling, happy fans. "Aaaww, I love you too!" She said lifting her voice. The audience roared again with one fan being heard over the rest.  I love you, Mahogany!  Smiling in that

direction to single out that fan, she then turned her attention to the host ready to answer questions. The audience began to settle down eager to enjoy being blessed by her presence. "Wow, its not a secret how  loved you are. Was this your first love as a child?" "I think singing was my thing as a kid? My mother and father use to have me sing for my family at parties, either way, I  had  to have a mic in my hand. I knew I wanted to do something where I would be heard." She answered with confidence while trying hard not to focus on the "on air" sign or

any single individual in the room accept the host. "We can see that, you do have a  lovely  voice. What's the best part about doing what you do?" "Reaching someone who thinks living life isn't worth it. Reaching someone who may not  quite get why it's so important to treat people the way they want to be treated. Maybe that  one  thing I said made them decide not to take their own life that day. It makes me feel so good to know I can be of help to someone else. I know this is my true calling." She replied digging deep to give the most suitable answer.

"Well, you're certainly reaching people and with two million viewers watching this show today, all I can say is brace yourself." They shared a hearty laugh while moving on to the next question. "Now, we have to mention this because inquiring minds want to know, you had a scare a while back. You were robbed at knife point at your home or something like that?" Mahogany calmly responded making sure to show the hot seat didn't bother her. She wanted to be as honest as possible with her fans without divulging critical information. "Oh wow,

yes, that was a  scary  moment. Well, I can't say too  much since its a pending investigation? But, I was actually  leaving  my station when this happened. Show was great then all of a  sudden , someone decides to try and  ruin my night, so yes, it was something I had to deal with, but i'm ok. Lover of Life will go on people!" She added turning toward the crowd as the fans clapped and whistled once again. "We're glad you're ok. So you have plenty of great advice for people, can we ask how  your  love life is doing? Is there a lucky

someone?" Mahogany smiled and winked at the audience as she showed being in front of millions was a breeze. It was nearing the end of the segment. "I knew you were going to ask. Well, yes there is and let's just say, I couldn't be  happier  at this moment. God has given to me in order for me to give to others, life is great....it really is." She said with a sparkle in her eye, quickly thinking of Marvin, that her love-life was now far from it.

One month later. "Well  look who's in town, Miss  big-shot  lover of life. How are you, honey?" Leslie's mother hugged Mahogany at the front door like she was her daughter. "Hi Mrs. Skyler, i'm sorry for not coming over more often. It's good to see you." She said smiling giving a modest response as she hugged her in return. "Girl, don't apologize for making a life for yourself. Sure wish some of what you have would rub off on Leslie. She's not home yet, but she will be in the next few minutes. Come in and make yourself at home." "Ok."

For the next fifteen minutes, Leslie's mother drilled her with questions regarding the radio show and her parents. She respectfully answered most in order to satisfy her curiosity. Needing a break, she decided to wait for Leslie in her bedroom. Entering, she was taken back by how her best friend was in her late twenties but essentially kept the room as it was when they were in their early teens. The room was filled with stuffed animals, magazine posters on the walls, childish items, ornaments and furniture. Her bed sheets and curtain

ensemble were decorated with pictures of party balloons and hats. Quickly becoming bored and feeling nosy, she walked over to her dresser and opened the top drawer. It was stuffed with various years of cd's and vhs tapes. She smiled and shook her head thinking about all the times they'd sat in each others rooms listening to music. She opened the second which contained many kinds of paper in different sizes and colors. In the left corner, she noticed a piece of torn, white-lined paper with words written in red ink.

She'd suddenly remembered the paper she'd found on her carpet after Quinn had left her home that day. The hand writing was identical. Shaking, her heart felt heavy as she began to read the paper connecting the dots in her mind. "Day 1 - My somber valentine - May 10 th Robbery, Day 2 – My somber valentine - Give address" She stood reading the paper unable to fathom an ounce of comprehension of why her best friend would betray her this way. Not wanting to believe it, she continued to read it over and over hoping for a new

interpretation. It never came. Minutes later, with a plate of food in hand, Leslie walked through the bedroom door speaking with an upbeat voice. "Hey, sis! My mother...." Suddenly, she noticed Mahogany standing frozen with the paper in her hand as anger and pain was written on her face. Tears streamed down her cheeks as she spoke furiously low while looking directly into hers. "It was you.  Why ? What did I  ever  do to you to deserve this?" Annoyed, Leslie let out a sigh, gently sat the plate on her nightstand and answered. " Why  are you

going through my things? I don't go through yours when I'm at  your house and what are you talking about girl? What is this it- was- you stuff?" Leslie walked toward her, snatched the paper from her hand, placed it back in the drawer and slammed it shut. Mahogany was stunned for words as it was clear her long time friend was in denial. She found it pointless to further address a situation that was out of her realm of expertise. It tore her heart to shreds, but more so, deeply saddened her that one of her closest friends needed mental

help. Without words for a few seconds, Mahogany looked Leslie in the eyes offering pity. Then, she softly spoke. "Good-bye, Leslie." Too upset to say another word, with dignity, she proceeded to leave the bedroom, dashed passed the living room and left, never to return again.

CHAPTER 6

Two months later Tuesday at around 3:30pm . "Are you ever going to talk Leslie again?" Shay's voice was filled with melancholy as she softly spoke. "I don't think so. How can I, Shay? She

tried to have me killed. She betrayed me in the worst way, I can't forgive that." Mahogany held her cordless phone while laying on her couch looking up her Cathedral ceiling. She refused to cry for the hundredth time. "I know. I still can't  believe she could be capable of something so awful. Her jealousy just went to a whole  different level. See, this is what happens when you have too many voids in your life, when you don't pursue your dreams and live through other people. She's been calling me a lot more lately. I can't bring myself to talk

to her since you told me what happened. I know there's two sides to every story, but knowing the both of you? I know you're telling me truth." She said. "I wish she'd told us what she was  really feeling inside, ya know? If she had of asked me for a kidney, honestly? I would've given it to her. That's how much I loved her. There was no reason to be  jealous . We were sisters, all of us. Now...it's like she died. I can never talk to her or  trust her again." Mahogany responded, somewhat, still in shock and trying to make sense of it. Sighing, Shay

added wanting her best friend to see the brighter side. "She left a message and said she's in a mental hospital. Thank  goodness she's getting the help she needs. If it's any consolation, i'm still here and I'll  never  betray what we have. It takes  two  lifetimes to find a genuine, loving friend who truly has your back and anyone who doesn't know this? Is a fool. You're strong and you'll get through this. There's so many people in this world and we've yet to see not even less than a quarter of them. Look at you, you're going on buying your third home

with  everything you've ever wanted. Marvin is good to you. This will come to pass, girl." She replied. Sighing deeply as she thought about the loss of her friend and possibly loosing Marvin, Mahogany responded. "True. Shay, i'm going to get ready for work. I'll call you later, ok?" "Alright. I don't care what time it is, whenever you want to talk, call me. I love you." "I will. Love you, too." The women hung up and Mahogany was left to think about how the next turns of events of her life were going to unfold. Quinn had finally checked himself into

rehab and whenever he called, she would only accept a few out of the many he placed while only extending an olive branch.

Three months later.  "Why is it so difficult for us to forgive?... And why is it difficult to forgive the people that are  closest to us, when the ones who  aren't... are forgiven sooner? Seems backward doesn't it? Here is my view ...the people we love the most....when they hurt us, the pain is  twenty times greater. We know the world is full of

those who work over-time to bring harm and misery to us, so we expect it...but when the  very  ones we trust with our lives, family, children, minds, bodies and souls...we expect  them to never  turn against us, never  betray  us and  always  love us with everything inside them. The ones we love  most in this world are the ones we give our most  deepest  love to....all the while, knowing the same ones we unconditionally love with all of our hearts, are the ones we place on the back burner. Expecting them to know we love them, even when the last time

we told them we loved them, was years and years ago. They are the ones we take for granite because we assume they will  always be there for us. Never thinking in our minds that they have hearts and feelings too. We underestimate the love that is most important to us, never realizing....it could someday.... be taken away....and when this happens...it cuts so deep into our hearts that the resentment and pain is too much to bear, too devastating to forgive, we look at them and say...how could you hurt me this way? You should have known better,

I expect this from  them , but  never you.....this is my take people, my attempt to make sense of something that baffles so many. The only way to gain knowledge of this concept is to have walked in the shoes of it. I want to thank everyone for tuning in to lover of life, i'm Mahogany Johnson and may you find it in your heart to forgive someone, someday, that hurt you beyond repair. Good night." Pulling the headphones from her head, she hit the button as she watched the "on air" sign light go out. Her emotions over-powered her causing

tears to fall one by one staining her notebook papers. She began to cry uncontrollably as the heaviness in her heart weighed her down. Minutes later, she let out a sigh feeling better as she gathered herself while wiping her nose and eyes with the back of her hand. She found the strength to situate her office collecting her things to leave. Grabbing the last items while placing the office bag over her shoulder, her cell phone began to vibrate. She checked the number then answered with a saddened tone. "Hello." "Can I come in? I'm at

your office door, I didn't want to use the key and startle you. I'm right here, babe." "Sure, It's open. I was just getting ready to walk out anyway." She said doing her best not to sniffle to show she'd been crying. Apprehensively, Marvin slowly turned the knob and proceeded to walk in. His pleasurable, intoxicating cologne entered the room before he'd taken his first step. Without looking up to acknowledge him, she used the last minutes to make sure her office was just the way she wanted it. Her pride wouldn't let her show

anymore concern for getting their relationship back on track. Moments later, she heard him jingle keys in the air as his deep voice and tone projected his true feelings. "I don't want to spend  another night away from you. You've been patient for so long and I don't want to lose you. I love you....so...that mansion you wanted? Ours. Start planning our wedding, babe." He said. Stopping in her tracks and finally giving him eye contact, she calmly responded with tears welling up again. "You bought the house?" She asked. Marvin smiled

waiting for the woman he loved most in the world to show she loved him the same. Suddenly, Mahogany rushed over, wrapped her arms around his neck and began passionately kissing him with no end in sight. She cried tears of joy for the man she wanted to spend the rest of her life with. Returning the same, he held her tight while managing to get a few words out. "I'm sorry I made you sad, you're my world, I love you so much." He said grabbing her face forcing her to look directly at him. They embraced, squeezed, hugged and kissed

for minutes. Realizing being home was a much better place to make up, without words, Mahogany gently pulled away, walked to her desk and scribble these words:

Leslie, visit, forgive

Created 12/11/2011

For inquires regarding this book or other books, please visit

Taste The Dream Publications

www.nikidastaste.com

I pray You Continue To Work Through Me....Thank You God

To My Beautiful Babies, Teshara and Porsha, Thank You For Giving Mama The Drive To Create 
  1. NEW mahoganys-pond

