 
## Maid Service

SMASHWORDS EDITION | COPYRIGHT 2016 Razor Blade

THIS EBOOK IS LICENSED FOR YOUR PERSONAL ENJOYMENT ONLY. THIS EBOOK MAY NOT BE RE-SOLD OR GIVEN AWAY TO OTHER PEOPLE. IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SHARE THIS BOOK WITH ANOTHER PERSON, PLEASE PURCHASE AN ADDITIONAL COPY FOR EACH RECIPIENT. IF YOU'RE READING THIS BOOK AND DID NOT PURCHASE IT, OR IT WAS NOT PURCHASED FOR YOUR USE ONLY, THEN PLEASE RETURN TO SMASHWORDS.COM AND PURCHASE YOUR OWN COPY. THANK YOU FOR RESPECTING THE HARD WORK OF THIS AUTHOR.

# Chapter 1

# The office

Trembling with anticipation, Melissa put the key in the door lock and turned it to the right until it clicked. It was eight o'clock in the evening and she knew the owners wouldn't be home. The same people who employed her as their housekeeper, or maid as Mrs. Jordan liked to call her. Tonight she didn't come to clean or do laundry, she came to be closer to the one man that excited her whenever he looked at her or was near.

David Jordan and his wife Tara owned a string of hotels that had been in the family for four generations; Tara was the CEO and David the president. This weekend they were off on another business trip to one of the hotels to fix a problem with management and most likely fire the hotel manager. Melissa didn't care, she longed for the weekends when they were away so she could sneak into the house and feel David like she couldn't do when he was home. She longed for him and took every opportunity to be close, even when he was away.

Tara never caught on to what Melissa was doing as Melissa was almost mute at work. She only spoke when spoken to and kept to herself spying on David when she could. She'd often spend time in the basement doing laundry and rubbing herself between her legs with his clothes.

Tonight she got to do what she liked the best, she had free access to the house and all of David's belongings and there was no one there to stop her. She had as much time as she wanted and could do as she pleased. She entered the main room and closed the door behind her. It was important that she kept the house dark so the neighbors wouldn't call the police so she closed all the curtains and only turned on a few select lamps that wouldn't bring attention to her.

The first thing she did, as she always did on these occasions was enter David's office and close the door. This room had one window that faced the back yard so she had no problem turning on the main light. With a flick of a switch, she could now see his desk, his leather chair and his book case that filled the back of the room. On his desk was a picture of David and Tara taken at one of their hotels and in the corner was his golf bag and clubs.

Melissa could feel her heart racing with anticipation of what she was planning to do next. She played a soundtrack in her mind of her favorite Adele song and began to strip pretending David was sitting at his desk watching her. She moved her hips to the sounds in her head and unbuttoned her top pulling it off and tossing it on his desk. She then sauntered around the desk and stood behind David's tall office chair and pressed her breasts against the back like she was pressing them against him.

She slipped off her bra straps at the shoulder and pulled the cups down exposing her large D size breasts and pink nipples. Then she took her bra by the sides and spun it around until the clasps were in front and separated it allowing it to come loose from her body. With the bra in hand, she took it and rubbed the cups on the part of the chair David's back rested upon in slow circles allowing her breasts to rest upon the top of the chair. This made her insanely horny feeling herself becoming wet between her legs. She could imagine David's head between her breasts and pretended to grab him by the chin and pull him back between them.

It was now time for her favorite thing to do in his office so she stepped around the chair and sat down. Only this time an idea came to her that she never had before. As she looked at the photo on the desk of David and Tara, she knew a way that David would always be able to see her, the way she wanted him to see her. The idea of cutting Tara out of the picture crossed her mind for a moment, but she knew that was just a fantasy.

Melissa thought for a second and looked around the room. She spied David's golf bag and found what she needed to make her idea work. She got out of the chair and slipped off the rest of her clothes pulling out the golf club with the longest shaft. She then sat back in the chair, rested the club on the desk and reached for the framed picture of David and Tara. As she held the picture close, she looked into David's eyes and smiled. Normally she'd masturbate and hold his picture close, but tonight was going to be a little different. Tonight she would leave something behind for him to see.

In the top drawer of David's desk, she found a letter opener and used it to pry open the picture frame and remove the picture and the glass that covered the photo. She set the glass and the frame on the desk and propped the photo up with a book so she could look at David as she pleasured herself. Using her right hand, she spread her pussy lips open and used her left index finger to rub her clit in small circles. She liked to make it last so she took it slow and pretended David was in the room with his finger on her.

Her favorite fantasy was her and David at the poolside at one of his hotels having sex in front of a crowd of tourists. And his wife held back, forced to watch them. This was what she was running through her head until she kept noticing Tara in the picture. Normally she'd put a sticky note over her face, but since the picture was out of the frame she didn't want to do anything that would leave a mark. So she spied another book on the desk and propped it up covering that bitch's face.

Now that she had David's face exclusively in her view, she slipped her finger inside and probed her vagina. To her this was David's rock hard cock as he entered her by the pool. In her mind she was on her back in a poolside recliner with David on top and a cheering crowd yelling with each thrust inside her. She could feel herself dripping wet and knew it was time for her plan.

She reached over and took the golf club by the handle and moved it over across the desk top until she was able to line it up directly to her vagina. The golf clubs had been in the room every time she'd ever started this and this was the first time she thought about using them to pleasure herself. The thought of what she was going to do was almost more exciting than actually doing it. With the handle of the club lined up, she rubbed some pussy juice on the leather grip and slid the club as deep inside her as she could.

For a moment she closed her eyes and felt David inside her and she shivered. She used her hands to move the club inside and out in a rhythm, sliding in and out feeling his cock throb as it went. She leaned back in the chair and put her bare feet up on the desk allowing the club better access to her deep wet hole.

Normally Melissa was a quiet girl, but now she moaned and let her pleasure out where anyone nearby could hear. But she knew there was no one around and felt at ease stroking herself and moaning. She didn't get too loud though, it wasn't in her nature to be that expressive. She was a shy girl by nature and usually kept to herself. At twenty six, she had only one boyfriend and that was in high school. She was considered the nerdy type, awkward, wore glasses and was the female equivalent of a dungeons and dragons geek. Her only sexual expression was her occasional trip to her employer's home when they were out so she could masturbate and fantasize about her boss.

David was a good looking man, way too good looking for that bitch wife of his and Melissa knew it. She often heard them fight and she knew they rarely had sex. She had gone through their bedroom many times looking for sex toys or anything else and found nothing. Except for the time she found Tara's diary and the story of how she had fucked the desk clerk at one of their hotels several times. The desk clerk and Tara had a relationship and she was looking forward to going back and getting more. This made Melissa sick that she'd cheat on David, but in a way glad that David was not screwing his wife.

Melissa wanted to pleasure David in real life but knew that would never happen. He was nice to her, but he never flirted and didn't seem interested in her in the least. It almost seemed at times that David was gay, but that couldn't be true. David was a hot man, and rich. And that was what Melissa dreamed about.

Feeling herself about to cum, Melissa stopped masturbating with David's golf club and pulled it out of her vagina. She leaned it up against the desk with the handle up so it could dry. And now she knew whenever David touched that club, he'd have her pussy juice on his hand. Then she realized he probably wore gloves and may never touch it directly.

So she went with her original plan and grabbed the glass from the picture frame and held it up so she could see through it. The glass was clear but had a few smudges so she wiped them clean with a tissue. Now that the glass was clear, she slid down in her chair until her hips were hanging off the edge and spread her legs as wide as she could. Being careful not to move around too much, she pressed the glass onto her pussy lips and held it there for a moment. She then raised it straight up and looked to see if it left an impression. In the light, she could see a perfect impression of her pussy lips from the juices she worked up from masturbating with the golf club.

With a smile, she set the glass on the desk face up to let the juice to dry before putting it back in the frame. It was her idea that every time David looked at the picture, he'd see her pussy in her own juice and not realize it. That alone made her drip onto the carpet.

Now it was time for her to finish. She had used her fingers, and a golf club and she wasn't leaving until she had the orgasm she wanted. Sometimes she'd bring a vibrator, and sometimes she'd finish with her fingers, but tonight seemed special and she wanted to end with a huge bang. But what to do? She had come close to orgasm a few times tonight and was on the edge of a huge ending. She knew there were utensils she could use from the kitchen, or she could use one of David's dress shoes to rub herself with, but no, she wanted something to remember this night.

Then she had an idea and left the office heading to the main bedroom. Outside the door was a closet with all of David's dress clothes. As she approached to the closet, she thought she heard a sound coming from the bedroom, but she knew they were gone for the weekend so it must have been something else. Every once and awhile Melissa would masturbate on David's bed, but the thought of Tara sleeping in that bed took away the thrill so she quit doing it there.

Now-sure she was hearing things, she took one of David's ties and carried it over to a couch and laid down. There was enough light coming through the window from a street light that she could see what she was doing. She got comfortable and put one leg on the floor and the other on the back of the couch spreading far enough apart that she could do what she planned. It took her a moment to undo David's tie and work it into her vagina. It was almost as good as his cock and it turned her on to no end.

With the tie shoved up as far as she could get it, she rubbed her clit in a circle and felt the swell of an orgasm come on harder and harder. She tugged on the tie as she rubbed and as she came she pulled it out shaking with the rush of the orgasm. For a few minutes she lie there dripping on the couch and rubbing the wet tie on her face as if David was there with her. Her own pussy juice turned her on and she sucked as much off the tie as she could pretending it was David's blow. Now there was only one thing to do before she left and that was leave her mark; like a cat does to keep other cats away. It was her one and only way to let Tara know that David was hers so she stood up and walked to the center of the living room, squatted down and pissed on the carpet.

Normally pee leaves a stink that anyone can smell, but Melissa had been drinking water all day just for this occasion so her pee would be clear and odor free. She had pissed all over the house over the last year and nobody ever said a word. And it made her feel giddy when she saw Tara sit on a chair that had her dry piss on it. She wanted to go over and smack her in the face and tell her she was sitting on it. Melissa had even pissed on Tara's clothes before putting it in the dryer so she'd wear her all day long. That made Melissa smile.

Then Melissa heard a voice call out from the dark. A voice she knew all too well.

"What the fuck are you doing?" Tara asked. She was standing in her nightgown.

Melissa backed away and stood in the light from the outside light pole. She had no answer.

"How did you get in here?"

"I have a key," Melissa replied.

"How long have you had a key?"

"David gave it to me."

"Liar. What? Are you fucking him?" Tara asked.

"No," Melissa replied.

"Why are you naked?"

Melissa didn't answer.

"What kind of psycho bitch breaks into my house naked?"

"I work here, I didn't break in," Melissa replied.

"You don't work weekends, you broke in."

"You were supposed to be gone."

"Change of plans."

"Where's David?" Melissa asked.

"He's dead," Tara replied. "I killed that cheating fucker."

Melissa stood staring at Tara in shock and disbelief.

"He's in the bedroom if you want to see."

# Chapter 2

# Diane

Troy Jordan, son of Tara, and the late David Jordan, sat in his makeshift office watching porn when he heard a knock at the door. He was expecting four job applicants today to fill the position of maid. Something his parents had before they were both brutally murdered fourteen months earlier in their home. His father was found to have been poisoned by his mother in retaliation for an affair and his mother had been beaten with a golf club by an unknown assailant.

Now that the hotel corporation and estate had been settled and divided between him and his two sisters, he was able to move on after they agreed to buy him out. He had no interest in the hotel business and despised his former job as head of laundry for the corporation. It was a token job his father gave him that he performed as poorly as he could. Now with seventy five million dollars in cash, he was now the richest person in Oak Bluff Kansas and had business ambitions of his own. To open the only full nude strip club in four hundred miles.

He always liked the idea of having a maid to clean up after him. His father had several over the years and with money to burn, he wanted someone to wash his clothes, clean the place and whatever he demanded. He didn't know the last maid his dad had, he didn't visit often as he spent more time than he liked at different hotels troubleshooting staffing, washing machines and hotel managers.

Originally Troy put out an ad asking for applicants to send nude cellphone pictures as part of the application process. He didn't know if that was illegal and really didn't care. If they didn't want the job, they didn't have to apply, and he was paying very well for the surrounding area. The ad stated a wage of eighteen dollars an hour plus benefits. He knew the local Walmart paid half that so he assumed he'd get a lot of applicants. Especially gold diggers looking to get some of his newly acquired wealth. So he had to be cautious of who he hired.

Troy met his first applicant at the door, she was dressed in a suit and skirt combo that looked like something a lawyer would wear, not a maid. She had on black shoes with short heels and her hair was tied back in a bun. "Hello," Troy said. "Come on in."

Troy was a redneck at heart. He liked his beer, he liked his racing and he liked his music loud. He didn't dress fancy like his dad did, he dressed in a t-shirt and jeans with a pair of tennis shoes his mother would have condemned him for. He motioned for the woman to have a seat next to his desk and picked up a sheet of paper with her contact information. "You're Diane?" Troy asked.

"Yes," Diane replied. Her full name was Diane Hall, and she was not there for the maid job.

"Where are you from?" Troy asked. He looked at her business suit and tried not to scowl. He was expecting someone in a cute dress or tight shorts.

"Topeka," Diane replied.

"How long have you been a maid?" Troy asked.

"Oh, I've never done housekeeping before," Diane replied.

Troy was a bit surprised at Diane's reply. Dressed as she was with no experience. "What kind of work have you done before?"

"I graduated from the university with a degree in business administration."

"Business administration?" Troy asked. "The job is for a maid."

"They're called housekeepers now. Maid is so antiquated."

"I grew up with a maid in the house, we always called her the maid."

"Times change," Diane replied. She tried hard not to come off as bitchy but wasn't doing a very good job.

"But you're willing to be a housekeeper?" Troy asked. "I mean, with a degree, this job may be beneath you."

"I was hoping you were looking for a personal assistant."

Troy was a bit pissed that this woman bait and switched him into an alternate interview. "I don't need a personal assistant," Troy replied. "I need someone to wash the shit stains out of my boxer shorts."

"I can help you find that person, that's what a personal assistant does. I could free you up to do other things besides hire the help. I can manage your calendar, set up your appointments, and take your calls. Now that you have money, you'll need someone to block all the people looking for handouts and investments."

"It hasn't been a problem so far," Troy replied.

"You've only had money for a short time, they will start calling and I can field those calls for you."

Troy sat back in his chair and thought. Then he opened the top drawer of his desk and tossed some clothes on top. A pair of pink frilly panties and a matching bra. "This is the uniform, and heels. I don't have heels here and these probably won't fit you but you can go down to "Cindy's Lingerie" and pick out a few sets. That is if you get the job."

Diane picked up the panties and looked at them. They were basically transparent. "You want me to wear this as your personal assistant?"

"No, as my maid. Not housekeeper. I don't need a personal assistant. If you get the job, this is what you have to wear."

"This is absurd," Diane replied. "I'm not some sex object that you can gawk at as I mop your floors."

"Then I guess this interview is over," Troy replied.

"I could sue you for sexual harassment," Diane said.

"I cleared this with my lawyer before I put out the ad. It's perfectly legal for me to issue a uniform."

"I would be practically naked."

"I am planning on opening a nude bar in the future. They don't wear uniforms at all."

"You're going to open a bar? See, you do need me, to help with the business end. I can be a great asset to you."

"Put on the uniform," Troy said.

"What? Now?"

"Yes, if you want a shot at working for me, you need to do as I say. Understand me?" Troy asked. He was pissed and wasn't going to let this woman run his life.

Diane hesitated and looked closely at the bra. "This isn't my size. I would fall out of this thing."

"I don't care. Put it on or get out."

Diane almost tossed the bra back onto the table, but realized she had a great opportunity and was getting somewhere with Troy. Maybe if she played along she would eventually get her way with everything she wanted. Playing dress up whore for a few minutes was a small price to pay. "Where can I put this on?" Diane asked.

"Right here," Troy replied.

"You want me to undress in front of you?"

"I plan to be surrounded by naked women all day long. Don't make a big deal out of this."

Diane swallowed hard and sighed. "Fine," She said and stood up. She kicked off her heels and unbuttoned her skirt. She slipped it down off her hips and stepped out of it. She pulled her pantyhose down to her knees and sat back down on the chair where she slipped them off her toes. She then took the frilly pink panties and slid them up to her knees. She noticed that Troy was looking at her pussy and she tried to turn away. "Do you have to stare?" Diane asked.

"You'll need to shave that if you get the job," Troy said with a grin. He was having a blast making this woman do what he wanted. He was a misogynistic pig and didn't even know what the word meant.

"Please hand me the bra," Diane said holding out her hand.

Troy handed her the bra and watched her take off her suit top, shirt and bra. Diane had huge tits and large pink nipples that stuck out like grapes.

"I hope you're enjoying this," Diane said as she tried to fit into the pink bra. It was three sizes to small and she managed to only get one clip fastened. The top part of her breast hung out the top and a large part out of the bottom.

"Stand up and put your heels back on," Troy said.

Diane did as Troy told her and stood like she was on sale at the market.

"Turn around," Troy commanded. He was having a blast.

Diane spun around and stood with her ass facing Troy. It was a nice round ass and he wanted to reach out and touch it, but there was an unwritten rule that you could look, and that was it."

"Bend over and grab your ankles," Troy said.

Diane turned at the waist and looked Troy in the eye. "No fucking way am I bending over."

"I have three more applicants coming today. And I'm sure they will all bend over. If you don't want to, that's fine. The interview is over."

Frustrated, Diane bent over and tried her best to grab her ankles. All she could manage was her knees. "How long do you want to look?" She asked. She could hear the sounds of his hand rubbing his crotch and it pissed her off. "What are you doing?" She asked and turned around. She could see the visible bulge in Troy's pants and saw him move his hand away quick.

"You can change back, I'll contact you if you get the job."

"The personal assistant job right?" Diane asked.

"Yes, the personal assistant job," Troy replied. He lied, he had no intentions of hiring her at all.

"I have some ideas for the bar, I can come over tomorrow and we can go over them," Diane said as she got dressed.

"We'll see," Troy replied.

"I'll come back in a bra that fits, and I have panties better than these."

Troy was getting turned on now that Diane seemed to be coming around to his way of thinking. "Can you get some four inch heels?"

"I can pick up a pair," Diane replied.

"You do realize that if I hire, you, you have to be in the "uniform" whenever you're here."

"Here? I thought we'd rent an office downtown."

"You don't get it do you?" Troy asked.

"No I get it. You want to see me half naked whenever you want. If that's what it takes to get the job then fine. But I still want an office downtown."

"How much is this going to cost me?"

"I want forty thousand a year plus benefits and expenses including a company car and phone and my own office."

"And I want you here an hour a day dancing around in your panties and bra."

"You give me what I want, and I'll give you what you want."

"I still have to hire a maid," Troy replied.

"I can do that for you."

"No, you might hire a fat chick, or an ugly one. I need a maid that's less a pain in the ass as you are."

"You mean you want a girl that will run around here naked all day long while you gawk at her."

"Exactly, if I can find that girl, I won't need you to come here at all."

"Let me look around. I know some women who need work."

"Are they hot?"

"I don't know what you consider hot, but they will be fine."

"I don't want no fat chicks or bitches. I want someone like my daddy had. She'd clean up the floor and suck his dick when my mom left to play cards."

"You want a prostitute?"

"No, prostitutes cost too much and they all look like crack whores. Maybe I'll find my maid today, I have another interview in a half hour."

"Let me know if you find the one. I'll stop back tomorrow and we can go over plans for your new bar."

"That sounds ok, I'll have my lawyer set up your tax information for the job. And you'll have to sign a contract so you know what you're job will be. And we'll have to discuss that as well."

"Great, see you tomorrow," Diane said and she turned to leave.

"Don't forget, until I get my maid, I want you in your underwear."

"I didn't forget," Diane said with a smile. She got what she came for and she was very happy.

# Chapter 3

# Melissa

Troy heard his doorbell ring and knew his next appointment was here to interview for the maid job. He answered the door and met a shy looking young woman that he sort of recognized. "Come in," he said and led her to his desk. She took a seat and looked at the floor.

"Hi, my names Troy, what's yours?"

"Melissa Burk," she replied. "I used to work for your dad."

"That's where I recognize you from, yeah, that is you. Whatever happened to you?"

"After your parents died, I took a job with a local cleaning service. I still work there," Melissa replied. "Your parents were great people, I miss them."

"How long did you work for them?"

"About a year and a half."

"I don't remember my dad saying anything bad about you, or anything at all for that matter."

"I usually kept to myself," Melissa replied.

Troy looked at Melissa and noticed she was cute. A bit chubby, but had a pretty face. "I remember the cell phone picture you sent, you have a tattoo on your ankle."

"Yes, it's a rose, on my right ankle."

"I'm surprised you sent the picture seeing how shy you are."

"When I knew it was you I wanted to make sure I had a shot at the job. It wasn't hard."

Troy pulled up his laptop and found the email she sent with her application. He clicked on the photo and a picture of Melissa standing nude holding a cellphone popped up on the screen. He looked at her naked body and smiled.

"I hope I'm not too fat," she said. She couldn't look at the screen.

"No, not at all. I prefer women with curves. How much do you weigh?" Troy asked.

Melissa was surprised at the question and hesitated to answer. "One eighty," she replied.

"Nice rack," Troy said.

"Thanks," Melissa replied. She didn't know what else to say.

"Well so far so good. If you worked for my dad I'm sure you did a good job, and you look nice. I'd hire you on the spot but I have two other girls to interview yet."

"That's all? Just two?"

"What do you mean?"

"You're the richest guy in town now. I thought you'd have girls lined out the door for the job."

"I had eighteen submit applications. Six didn't include a picture so I excluded those. The others were too old or too weird so I narrowed it down to four. I don't remember you saying you worked for my dad in your application."

"I didn't want to put that in there in case that would hurt my chances. I wanted to get the job on my own," Melissa replied.

"Well, there is one more part of the interview and that's the uniform," Troy said and put out the bra and panties for Melissa to see. She stood up and pulled her top over her head and placed it on the desk. She had on a bra that was frillier and more girly than the one Troy wanted her to try on and Troy took immediate notice. She then unbuttoned her jeans and slid them off her hips exposing her sheer bikini panties with a lace band and pink bow in front.

Troy's eyes were glued to Melissa's body and he rubbed himself between his legs without realizing it. Melissa took notice and kicked off her jeans. She turned, and modeled for him bending over and showing off her huge tits. For a shy girl, she was very comfortable exposing herself.

"I wish you had heels," Troy said.

Melissa reached into her bag and pulled out a pair of six inch heels. She figured that Troy might want a show since he was bold enough to ask for nude photos to be included in the job application. She slipped on the heels and stepped back far enough for Troy to see her clearly. She bent a knee, pointed a toe and jutted out her hip in a feminine pose while twirling her hair. "How is this for a uniform?" She asked.

"I love it. When you first came in I thought you were shy."

"I am usually, but I like it when men look at me. Makes me feel good about myself," Melissa replied. "Do I have the job?"

Troy wanted to say yes, but he couldn't. Not until he interviewed the other two women and they may be hotter than Melissa. "I have to interview the other two women," Troy said.

Melissa stepped in close to Troy and put a foot up on his armrest. She moved in close and put her pink bow six inches from Troy's nose. He looked at her between her legs and wanted so bad to rip her panties off and eat her right then and there. But for some reason felt that he needed to do the right thing and interview the other two.

"What do I have to do to get the job?" Melissa asked.

"Get dressed, I'll call you tonight if you get the job," Troy replied.

"You're going to pass this up?" Melissa asked. She put a finger on her panty waistband and slowly pulled it down. Not far enough to see anything, but far enough to make Troy swallow hard and shake his head in frustration. "You hire me and you get to see this all the time."

"I can't, not until I interview them. What would you do if I did that to you?"

"I'd be fucking pissed. Good thing my interview was first, huh?" Melissa asked. She put her foot back on the ground, spun around and sat on Troy's lap. She let him feel the full weight of her soft round ass on his legs. She twisted and ground her soft butt cheeks into Troy's thighs and pushed back like she wanted to be fucked from behind.

Troy now had blue balls like he had never had before. It felt like he had been punched in the sack and the pain was traveling up his back.

"What's wrong?" Melissa asked. She knew what was going on, but played dumb.

"I got blue balls," Troy replied. "Hurts like hell."

"Really? How do you fix that?"

"I need to relieve myself," Troy replied.

"Oh, it's too bad you don't have someone to help you with that."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean I could make that all go away, if you want," Melissa said.

"I told you I can't give..."

"I know what you said, but I feel since I did that to you, I should make it better. No obligation." Melissa was playing her cards and knew if she made Troy happy, her chances were better.

"So if I let you, you won't expect anything special?" Troy asked. He was bent over, gritting his teeth and squinting his eyes.

"No, I won't expect any special favors."

Troy didn't reply at first as if he had to think over her offer, then replied, "Make it better."

Melissa got down on her knees and motioned for Troy to stand up. She unbuttoned his pants and slid them and his boxers to his knees. She then took his rock hard cock in her hand and stroked it keeping an eye on Troy's face. Each stroke seemed to make him feel worse, as if he was trying to pass a kidney stone. "Are you alright?" Melissa asked.

"Keep going," Troy replied.

Melissa continued to stroke Troy's cock harder and harder until he told her to stop.

"I need to lie down, it hurts too much," Troy said. He stepped around Melissa like an old man, hobbled over and braced himself against the wall. He made it to the couch and laid down with his erection throbbing on his belly. When she was sure Troy was settled, she crawled over to the couch and took his cock in her hand again and stroked it. This time Troy seemed to be in less pain so she decided to lick the head of his cock and suck on the tip.

Troy responded and his cock pulsated like he was on the verge of blowing. "Stop, that really hurts," he said.

Melissa didn't want Troy to get soft so she decided to take his balls in her hand and play with them. It wasn't as direct a stimulation, but kept him interested. "How are you now?" Melissa asked.

"Are you on birth control?" Troy asked.

"I'm on Depo," Melissa replied.

"What's Depo?"

"It's a shot, don't worry, I won't get pregnant."

"Ok, let's fuck then."

Melissa was surprised at Troy's language but got the message. She stood up, slipped off her panties and straddled Troy sliding one leg down between him and the back of the couch. When centered, she grabbed his shaft and slid his cock inside her. Her wet pussy slid down to where she was resting on his hips with him all the way inside her.

"Go slow," Troy said. He opened his eyes enough to see her two large breasts move up and down in rhythm.

"How's that?" Melissa asked.

"Good," Troy replied.

Melissa moved up and down on Troy's cock keeping an eye on his face. She wanted to make sure she wasn't making his blue balls worse as she fucked him.

"Faster," Troy said.

Melissa moved faster until she was pounding Troy, slamming down on his hips and driving him into the couch. He grit his teeth and let go as he swelled with orgasm and passed the pain of his blue balls. For a moment it hurt ten times worse, then relief came upon him then the orgasm. She shot his load into Melissa and she stopped pumping, resting her hips on his.

"Don't move," Troy said. For once he didn't feel pain and could take in what was sitting on him. He reached up and took Melissa's breasts in his hands and squeezed them through her bra. They felt good in his hands and knew he wanted to feel them again and again. "My next interview is in ten minutes, you need to be gone by then."

"What if I stay in the other room? When you're done we can fuck again."

Troy didn't think of that, and he usually didn't fuck anyone more than once a day. He was a loser and had a hard time finding women unless he paid or forced them into sex. "Ok, you can stay in the living room. Just make sure she can't see you."

Melissa lifted off of Troy and let his hard cock slip out of her wet pussy. It flopped to the side and cum dribbled out of her onto him. "I'll get you a towel," she said.

"That will be your first duty as my maid," Troy said with a smile.

"Oh, don't get used to getting laid, this was a onetime deal. I don't have a problem running around with my tits and ass hanging out, but you've entered my door for the last time."

"You don't have the job yet, I wouldn't say that quite yet."

"If I don't say it now, you'll expect it every day. I'm not a prostitute. I sweep floors, buy groceries, do laundry and the dishes. My job duties do not include draining my employer's balls on a regular basis. Not for eighteen dollars and hour," Melissa said. If Troy would have been her father that would have been a different story. She would have gladly drained him daily and come back for more. Troy sort of creeped her out but she thought she could live with it. The money was good and she knew how to be a maid.

"Why did you offer to fuck me again then?" Troy asked.

"I don't know, maybe that was a bad idea," Melissa replied.

"No, it was a great idea. Go find a seat."

Melissa picked up her clothes and walked into the living room. She picked a place where Troy could see her but the girl he would be interviewing couldn't. She had a plan to make sure she sealed the deal.

Ten minutes later the next girl was in the same seat Melissa was when she was being interviewed. Her back was to her and Melissa could see Troy's face. The spot where Melissa was sitting was well lit but difficult to see from anywhere but Troy's standpoint. This allowed Melissa to again slip off her pants and pull her panties over so she could let Troy watch her masturbate. She would never have done this with Troy's father, and she never planned to do it again. But it was fun and for a good purpose. The more she rubbed herself, the more Troy became distracted and that's what Melissa planned. She grinned knowing her plan was working and that the girl in the chair had no chance at the maid job. She was pretty, and thin, but was she willing to put on the "uniform?" All the girls submitted nude cellphone pictures, but when it came time to try on the bra and panties, this girl stood up and walked out.

One down and one to go.

# Chapter 4

# Diamond Gentlemen's Club

Two weeks later Diane set up a meeting at the Diamond Gentlemen's Club to discuss purchasing the business from the owner. Diane had already rented an office downtown, leased a car and set up internet and phone service on Troy's dime. She was determined to find a club for Troy to buy and thrived on the challenge he gave her. She would have put this kind of effort into any business she tried to start be it a donut shop, a daycare or Avon. She wanted to make Troy proud.

In the back office, Diane and Troy met up with Sergio Valente, the owner of the club for the meeting. Troy entered the room and found Diane sitting across a large walnut desk with Sergio sitting on the other side. He was covered in tattoos and smoking a cigarette.

"Troy, this is Sergio," Diane said. She held up a hand as to present the olive colored man up to Troy.

Sergio stood up and shook Troy's hand and sat back down. Troy took a seat next to Diane and looked around the room at the pictures of the strippers that filled the walls of the small office.

"You know all these girls?" Troy asked.

"No, these were all here when I bought the club. I thought they looked good and left them up. I don't know any of these women."

"How long has this place been a strip club?" Troy asked.

"Since nineteen eighty three," Sergio replied. "I bought it three years ago."

"And you want to sell it already? That doesn't sound good."

"No it doesn't, but let me explain why I put it on the market. When I bought this place, I had no idea what I was getting into. The roof leaked and the girls all hated each other. They still do. I had to fire my manager and caught one of my bartenders stealing from me. I wasn't prepared and I went into a lot of debt."

"I see," Troy said. "So what are you asking for the place?"

"You get right to the point," Sergio replied. "I want two hundred and fifty thousand for the club. And another hundred for the business part."

"What does that mean?" Troy asked.

Diane replied, "If you wanted to turn this place into a tattoo parlor, the building would cost you a quarter million. If you want to keep it a strip club, it's another hundred thousand."

"If I buy the club, I'm starting from scratch anyway. I'd fire all the girls, gut the place and hire a contractor to make the repairs needed and turn this place around."

"You do realize this is a topless only club," Sergio said.

"Why are you saying that? How did you know I wanted to go full nude?"

"Your business manager told me. Full nude will require rezoning and that is very hard. Especially these days."

Diane spoke up, "It won't be as hard as you think. If you can get a few city council members to go along with you."

"These politicians are all prudes. They look down on my club like we're scum. They tried to zone me out of business last year but my lawyer stopped them. I was grandfathered in."

"These things swing back and forth all the time," Diane said. "I'll talk to our councilman and see what he says."

"I don't know," Sergio said. "I really want to sell this place, but going full nude will be difficult."

Troy leaned back in his chair and pondered what Sergio was saying. He was very honest for a man with a lot of money on the line. "What if I opened a place out of the city limits?"

"Then you deal with the county zoning and that's just as hard. The farmers don't want a strip club next to the COOP," Sergio replied.

"I'm not the kind of guy that loses, and I have a lot of money. I could buy any council person out there. I will have my all nude strip club," Troy said.

"If you can convince the city to give you the permit, then go for it," Sergio said.

Troy was pissed and more determined than ever. He was now thinking about razing the building altogether and starting from scratch. "Tell you what, I'll give you a down payment on the property now. I'm sure I can make this work. Diane, cut him a check for ten percent as a good faith down payment."

Diane pulled a checkbook from her bag and wrote out a check for thirty five thousand dollars and handed it to Sergio.

"Get a receipt," Troy said.

Sergio took the check and signed the contract Diane scratched out on the back of a poster. "This will do until I can get our lawyer to send you a proper contract," Diane said.

The three shook hands, left the office and walked into the bar area. Troy sat down on a stool at the bar and checked out the topless girl swinging on a pole on the main stage.

"Can I get you a drink?" Sergio asked.

"I'll take a whisky sour," Troy replied.

"I'm heading back to the office," Diane replied and left the bar.

Troy took his drink and walked over to the main stage and took a seat at a table up front. He propped up his feet on a chair and sipped on his drink watching the girl dance on the stage. She was somewhere between twenty and twenty five with large hips, small breasts and a tattoo that covered most of her neck and right shoulder. Troy couldn't figure out what the tattoo was, but it looked like someone tossed a balloon filled with ink on her neck. It looked cheap and made her look like shit.

Then he noticed she had a tattoo running the length of her right thigh made up of words he couldn't read. The harder he tried to read them, the more they looked like something done in a basement. Then the music stopped and the stripper headed off stage. There were no tips to pick up, it was early afternoon and there were only two patrons besides Troy and they were sitting in the back in a dark corner.

"Come over here," Troy said to the dancer. She wasn't used to customers calling out her so she did a double take. When she saw Troy waving her over, she turned around and walked back. Her heels clip clopping on the hardwood floor as she stepped.

"What do you want?" The girl asked. She seemed annoyed. Then the music started again and another girl stepped up onto the stage.

"Come down here," Troy said. He waved a twenty at her and she acted like it was crack to a drug addict.

The dancer sat on the stage and scooted her heels onto the floor. She joined Troy at the table like she had done with other customers begging for tips. "You want a lap dance?" She asked. Her stage name was "Lucy."

"I want to ask you something," Troy said. "How long have you been a stripper?"

"I prefer to be called a dancer," Lucy replied.

"Fine, how long have you been a dancer?"

"About six months."

"When did you get that tattoo?" Troy asked pointing to her neck.

"A few months ago," Lucy replied.

"You like that tattoo?"

The question struck Lucy odd. "Yeah, I like it."

"Do a lot of the dancers here have tattoos like you do?"

"A few," Lucy replied.

Troy determined he was going to fire her as soon as he took possession of the business. He found Lucy to be the bottom end of the dancer pool. He wanted a higher class of stripper, the kind you would find in high class gentlemen's club. Not some back alley dive.

"Why do you ask?" Lucy asked.

"I just bought the club," Troy replied. "I guess that makes me your boss."

"Sergio sold it? I never thought he'd go through with it."

"Yeah, we signed an agreement.

"When do you take over?"

"I plan to have the bar paid off by the end of the week. I need to talk to my lawyer first."

Lucy looked nervous. "Are you going to keep all the girls?"

"I need to interview them all first, I don't know. I want this place to be the kind of club that everyone wants to get into. From what I see I think most of it needs to be scrapped and started over."

"I need this job," Lucy said.

"How much do you make a night?" Troy asked.

"Three hundred on a good one."

"That's all?"

"We don't get a lot of customers anymore," Lucy said.

"With that big ugly fucking tattoo I don't wonder why. You look like you got in a fight with a baseball bat and lost."

Lucy put her hand over her tattoo like she was trying to cover it up. "I get all kinds of compliments on my tattoo."

"I don't think I'll be able to keep you, not as a dancer that is. Maybe you could work the bar. And that's if you wear a scarf."

"Mister, I have four kids to support, I can't work the bar. The bar doesn't pay shit," Lucy replied.

"I'm sorry, but when I get done with this place, the caliber of women on the stage will improve greatly," Troy said. "I have plans for this place and it will be amazing."

"When will this happen? How long do I have my job?"

Troy watched the dancer on the stage swing on the pole. She was much better looking than Lucy and had no tattoos. He knew he'd keep her. "I'd say six months tops," Troy replied.

"Six months?"

"You can find another stripping job by then. Or maybe you can be a checker at Walmart."

"Please don't fire me," Lucy pleaded.

Troy pointed at the girl on the stage and Lucy looked up at her. "See her? I'll keep her until I can find a replacement. She's about as low as I'll go. You are the worst."

Lucy was shocked at Troy's comment. "Fuck you asshole!" Lucy said.

That reminds me, your stretch marks are gross. I can't have a dancer with belly skin hanging down and rolls of fat bouncing up and down. No wonder you don't make any tips. You're lucky I gave you that twenty."

Lucy was on the verge of tossing the twenty back on the table in a rage but decided to keep it. "What kind of monster are you?" Lucy asked.

"Does this place use a cleaning service? If not you could work overnights mopping and cleaning the carpet."

"My husband is on disability. If I don't work and make the kind of money I make dancing we won't make it. Is there anything I can do to keep my job? Anything?"

"At this point no, sorry."

Lucy stood up and shoved the table towards Troy. He grabbed the edge and stopped it before it hit him in the gut. As Lucy stormed off, he was able to read the tattoo on her leg. It read "Peace and love." For a moment it made Troy smile, but it was short lasting. He had a plan to gut the place and the staff if he had to, no matter how much of a prick that made him.

"What's up with Lucy?" Sergio asked. He was standing behind Troy.

"I told her I wasn't going to keep her," Troy replied.

"That might not be a good idea," Sergio said. "She has friends. The kind of friends that could fuck you up."

"I'm not worried," Troy said.

"The last thing you want is a pissed stripper after you. She does a good job, you might consider keeping her on."

"She looks like shit. I want better looking dancers," Troy said.

"Good luck with that, you won't find much better than her around here."

"That's because this place looks like hell, when I get done with it, they'll line up to work the stage."

"It's your bar now, good luck," Sergio said.

# Chapter 5

# Meeting

Troy returned home after his meeting frustrated and inspired to make the Diamond what he dreamed it could be. He now realized his father's frustration with the hotel chain and how it seemed to age him. He knew he could run a business as well as his father and was determined to prove it to himself.

"How was your meeting?" Melissa asked. She was dressed in a pink plaid school girl skirt and a matching bra. She was wearing more than the official maid uniform, but she thought Troy would enjoy it.

"You look nice," Troy said. "I like that skirt."

"Sometimes the less you see the better," Melissa replied twirling her pigtails.

"Lift your skirt," Troy said. "Let me see your panties."

Melissa did as Troy requested and lifted her skirt. Today she was wearing Mary Jane's with Bobby socks and it turned him on like never before. She was also wearing a white thong that matched her bra, pulled up tight into a camel toe.

"Wow," was all Troy could say. "The meeting was alright, I'm going to have to fire half the staff and gut the bar."

"Why?"

"The girls I saw looked like meth heads and the bar looks like it hasn't been updated since seventy five."

"So I assume you bought the bar."

"I made a down payment. I'll own it by Friday."

"That's exciting, maybe I could work as a dancer on my weekends."

"I don't want other men seeing you like that," Troy said. He was almost jealous.

"Awe, that's nice," Melissa said. "You want me all to yourself? Do you have a crush on me?"

"No," Troy replied. He was lying. "I pay you enough here."

"I can make five hundred a day dancing."

"I'll raise your pay to twenty an hour, ok?" Troy asked.

"Fine," Melissa replied. "For now."

"What did you make for supper?"

"There's lasagna on the counter. Can't you smell it?"

"No, my allergies are acting up. I can't smell anything," Troy replied.

"I'll get some for you," Melissa said and walked to the kitchen. Her hips swayed from side to side as her nice round butt bounced up and down as she walked. Troy wanted to lift that skirt and give that ass what it deserved, but she had a rule. No touching.

Friday came around and Troy drove down to the Diamond for his meeting with the staff. The girls were all sitting around a group of tables, the three bartenders were standing behind the bar and the two bouncers were sitting on the stage. Sergio was standing by the cash register waiting for Troy to speak.

"Hi, my name's Troy Jordan, as you all know I bought the Diamond from Sergio and I'm taking over as of today. I'm sure you're all a bit nervous about any changes I will be making so I called this meeting to tell you what I have planned."

"Are you firing all of us?" A dancer asked. Troy didn't see who it was.

"No, not all of you. I'll get to that in a minute. What I have planned is tearing out parts of the bar and putting in new."

"Like what?" A bartender asked.

"I want to put in a new bar, new stages, replace all the lighting and change out most of the decorations. This place will look totally different when I'm done."

"How long with that take?" the same dancer asked.

"My contractor says about a month," Troy replied.

"What are we supposed to do in the meantime?"

"I don't know," Troy replied.

"What do you mean you don't know? How am I supposed to pay my bills?"

"Apply for unemployment?"

"I'd make eight hundred maybe. I make that in two nights here."

"If that's the case you should have plenty saved up," Troy replied. "And another thing, all the dancers have to interview for their jobs again."

A collective grumble filled the room from the dancer's tables.

Lucy stood up and said," If you have tattoos he's going to fire you."

"That's not true," Troy snapped back.

"You told me I was fired because of my neck tattoo."

"And your stretch marks, don't forget the stretch marks," Troy replied. "What are you doing here anyway?"

"I'm here to support my sisters!"

"Well your sisters are about to reapply for their jobs so sit the fuck down."

Then one of the bartenders spoke up. "What about us? I don't have a lot of savings."

"I can get you on the construction crew," Troy replied. "Same for the bouncers."

"Do we have to reapply for our jobs?"

"No, but there will be a dress code for all staff. No more jeans and t-shirts. You guys will look professional."

"Are you trying to turn this place into some high class strip joint? The people who come here like it the way it is."

"Then I don't want those people here," Troy replied. "Now, I need all the girls on the stage. Now!"

"We're not dressed to dance," a dancer said.

"On the stage or out the door." Troy snapped. The seven dancers got up from the table and walked up the steps to the stage. They were pissed and huddled in a group ignoring Troy who was trying to organize them for their auditions.

"I want you side by side all along the stage shoulder to shoulder about two feet apart," Troy said.

The girls lined up as Troy said and the room quieted down.

"Now strip."

Some of the girls began to strip and others weren't sure what he said so they stood there looking around.

"Clothes off, now!"

Now all the women understood what was going on and they all stripped down to their bras and panties."

"No, all the way. The club will be going all nude."

"I won't do full nude," one of the dancers said.

"Then go," Troy replied.

The dancer stepped out of the line and left the stage with her clothes in her arms.

"Anyone else won't do full nude can leave as well."

The rest of the dancers stripped down nude and stood before Troy like soldiers before a drill sergeant

"I don't like bush, you all need to shave that off. Understand me?" Troy asked.

The girls nodded in agreement.

Troy walked side to side looking at each girl as he moved examining them for anything he didn't like. He stopped at the third girl and told her to turn around. She did. "You got a lot of cheese on your butt."

"All women have cellulite," she snapped back.

"Not in my club, you're done."

The dancer picked up her clothes and walked away pissed. "You dumb motherfucker, you'll get yours," she said.

Troy moved on to the end and turned around to check them again. This time he had them all turn around. "Bend over and grab your knees," he said.

The women bent over allowing Troy to see all their snatches. He paused at each one and took a good long look. "These are your money makers now. They have to be clean, shaven and available to any customer to look at. We do open pussy here so if the customer requests, you have to spread it. Anyone have a problem with that?"

None of the women said a word.

"We will have a private dance room for customers who want to pay extra."

"We already have that," a dancer said.

"Good, how much are you charging?'

"Twenty for five minutes," she replied.

"Not bad, I might keep that as is. You can all turn around."

The girls stood up and faced Troy. "I'm putting in a dj booth instead of this fucking canned shit. You'll have to tip out the dj ten percent."

"For pushing a button?"

"A good dj can bring in a lot of business. I might turn part of this into a dance club eventually."

"Women won't go to a dance club with other naked women on display," the dancer said.

"Maybe, maybe not. But I'm willing to give it a shot. Ok, from what I see, you can all keep your jobs. I'll be in touch when the renovations are complete and you can come back to work. You can go now."

The dancers got dressed and left the stage. After a small chat session by the bar, the rest of the crew left leaving Troy alone. At least he thought he was alone.

From behind, Troy heard Lucy speak up. "I need my job back."

Troy spun around expecting to see her holding a gun. Instead she stood there naked.

"I told you no, sorry."

"I'll do whatever it takes to get my job back."

"I'm assuming since you're naked you mean sex?" Troy asked.

"Yes, I'll be your personal whore, whenever you want it."

"As appealing as that sounds, when this club is open, I'll have my choice of pussy. And I mean quality pussy. Not like yours."

Lucy walked around the table and took Troy by his pants. She unbuttoned the top button and unzipped his jeans. "I give the best blow jobs ever," she said.

"How do you know? Was there a contest?"

"All the men I suck off tell me that."

"Of course they do, they say that to every chick that sucks them off. Are you stupid?"

"You can insult me all you want. I'll show you," Lucy said as she got down on her knees. She pulled out Troy's cock and rubbed the shaft licking the side as she moved up and down. She then licked the head and put the tip in her mouth teasing Troy. She looked up into his eyes and took the entire cock into her mouth and moved in and out keeping her tongue tight against the shaft.

Troy looked down at the pathetic whore and enjoyed the blow. She did an adequate job and he liked how hard she squeezed his cock as she stroked him. Most women he had, and that wasn't many, held it like it would break in two. He liked it better when they acted like it was the handle grip on a motorcycle, holding on for dear life.

Lucy pulled his cock out her mouth and asked, "Do you like?"

"I do, I might consider giving your job back if you take it in the ass."

Lucy stood up and bent over a table putting her rear out for Troy to fuck. She licked her finger and lubed up her asshole so it wouldn't hurt.

Troy lined up his throbbing cock with Lucy's ass and slowly pushed it inside. She was very tight and made sounds that it hurt as he pushed. The more she groaned in pain, the more he liked it. Then it slid all the way in. Her ass was so tight it felt like someone gripping it and squeezing it so it couldn't leave.

"Go slow," Lucy said.

Troy slid in and out slow feeling the death grip on his cock. It was the best he had ever had in his life. "If you let me do this every day, I'll make you the assistant manager."

"I can't do this every day, I'll get too loose."

"Every week then."

"It's a deal," Lucy replied.

And then Troy came.

# Chapter 6

# Film at eleven

Troy entered his house with a thirty two ounce cup of strawberry slushy he picked up at the gas station. He looked around the house to see if Melissa was around but didn't see her, then he heard a car pull up in his driveway and turned to see Diane pull in. He wasn't expecting her so he waited until she got out of the car and joined him at the door.

"I'm glad I caught you," Diane said. "I have papers for you to sign."

"What papers?"

"Ownership papers, for the bar," Diane replied.

Troy let Diane inside and joined her at the living room table. She spread out the papers and handed him a pen. "Sign here, and here, and initial on those three lines," She said.

Troy did as Diane said and signed the papers. She gathered them up and put them in a manila envelope and folded the end over.

"I'll have the lawyer sign these and take them to the bank. You should have the keys by Saturday. How does it feel to be a business owner?"

"I had to fire a dancer, and tell the rest they were out of a job until I fixed the bar."

"That's what the boss does, get used to it," Diane said.

"I'm not planning on hiring most of the dancers back anyway. I sort of lied to them."

"You can do whatever you want now."

"I just want the bar that I dreamed of. Not some second rate dive."

"You could have built from scratch, why didn't you?" Diane asked.

"My dad bought hotels and refurbished them. I guess I like the way he did it."

"He never built a hotel from the ground up?"

"No. I'm sure it will be fine. I just need to grow some balls."

"Do you still expect me to run around in my underwear when I'm in your house? I have a pair I keep in the glove box," Diane asked.

"No, Melissa is enough. Plus I'll have plenty of other women around soon enough. I'll probably get sick of tits and ass eventually."

"I doubt it, you seem like a pretty horny guy to me."

With papers signed, Diane left the table and the house. She drove off leaving Troy alone to ponder his plans.

"So now you're a bar owner," Melissa said. She stepped around the corner wearing a see through blue dress that came to her mid-thigh, no bra and a black thong. With her four inch heels, her ass rose high and her calves curved to a taper.

"Damn girl, you keep looking hotter and hotter," Troy said.

"I want to make you happy," Melissa replied.

"Must be my lucky day, first I ass fuck a stripper, and now this."

"Ass fuck a what?"

"I let a stripper keep her job. Not dancing, maybe swinging a mop after hours."

"What happened?"

"She has this horrible dark neck tattoo and a rear that looks like cottage cheese. She was gross. I told her she was fired but then she let me fuck her in the ass to keep from getting let go," Troy replied. I lied of course, she won't be on the stage again."

"And she let you put your dick in her ass?"

"Yeah, what's wrong? Are you jealous?"

Melissa gave a look like he had just said the most absurd thing in the world, when in fact she was jealous. She was starting to see in Troy what she saw in his dad and didn't want any other woman to have him. That's why she dressed up for him special. "Me? Jealous of you? I think not," she replied.

Troy was sure she was lying, so he decided to test her. "Too bad you don't have a cock. I wish you could feel what I felt when I shoved it up her tight ass. I never had a hole that tight before in my life. Then she squeezed down on it and I couldn't pull it out. It was insane."

"Sounds disgusting to me. Putting your cock in another woman's asshole."

"Another woman's asshole? What does that mean?"

Melissa was caught in a slip and tried to correct herself. "I meant her asshole."

"Why do you care? It's not like we're fucking. You made that perfectly clear. And where did you get that outfit? How did you pay for it?"

"I went down to Cindy's Lingerie and bought it. I had them send you the bill," Melissa replied.

"That takes a lot of balls."

"Do you like it?"

"Yes, I like it a lot."

"Then quit bitching."

"Did you get my room cleaned?"

"I clean it every day. Why do you ask?"

"Never mind," Troy replied.

"Why don't you take a shower and wash that stripper's shit off your cock?"

"Why don't you wash it off for me?"

"That's not part of the duties we agreed on," Melissa replied with a grin. "Maybe you should have thought of that beforehand."

Just then Troy heard a popping sound and the shattering of glass. Without thinking, he dropped to the floor and hugged the carpet like it would somehow save his life. He heard two more popping sounds and a car screech as it drove away from his house.

"What was that?" Melissa yelled.

"Get down! Someone is shooting at the house!"

Troy lay face down waiting for another shot but heard nothing. He fished out his cell phone and called the police keeping his voice as quiet as he could. After he finished the call, he crawled over to the kitchen and sat with his back against the wall waiting for law enforcement to show. He had a pistol, but he kept it upstairs in his bedroom. He felt he was willing to risk getting shot to fetch his pistol, but was to chicken to move. "Melissa, go to my room and get my gun!" Troy shouted.

"I'm not moving," Melissa replied. She was hiding in the food pantry. "You go get it."

"Fuck," Troy said under his breath.

"Who's shooting as us?"

"Probably somebody from the bar," Troy replied.

"One of the dancers?"

"No, but a friend of one."

"You must have really pissed them off."

"I did. But I had to. It's my bar now."

Then Troy heard the sounds of sirens and felt better. "The cops are coming," Troy said.

"I hear," Melissa said. "Should I get dressed?"

"No, you look fine."

"The cops might think it's strange I'm not wearing a bra. I'm practically naked. What if the news shows up with a camera?"

"Fine, go change and make it quick."

Two minutes later the police broke into Troy's house followed by a film crew and raided every room looking for suspects and shooters. Troy screamed that he was shot at but his words fell on deaf ears. The film crew concentrated on Melissa who was hiding in a spare bedroom trying to hide behind the door. When they pulled her out, the cameraman focused on her tits and ass like any good cameraman would.

"Get out of here!" Melissa shouted. "I don't have a gun!"

"Did you see the shooters?" The reporter asked. He shoved the microphone in her face as the camera focused on her tits.

"No, I didn't see anything, now get the fuck out of here!"

"Why are you dressed like that?" The reporter asked. "Are you a prostitute? Is this a brothel?"

"Brothel? Who says Brothel anymore?" Melissa asked. "And no, I'm not a prostitute!"

"Then why the...?"

"It's none of your business why I'm dressed like this. I live in America, the land of the free and the home of the brave where many men died so I could dress in whatever I want. Now get out before I call my lawyer!"

The reporter backed off and left the spare bedroom with Melissa behind. In the other room the police were questioning Troy as to why someone would shoot at his house.

"I fired a bunch of strippers today. That's why I'm getting shot at. Revenge!" Troy yelled.

"Do you know the names of the strippers?" A cop asked.

"No, I didn't bother to find out. They were all gross."

"Where did these strippers work?"

"The Diamond, why do you ask?" Troy asked.

The cop thought for a second. "My sister strips there. You fired my sister?"

"I guess I did," Troy replied.

"Now that text makes sense," the cop said.

"What text?"

"That I'm going to kill that fucker that fired me."

"What's your sister's name?"

"I thought you didn't know their names."

"I know one."

"Her name is Lucy," the cop replied.

"Troy didn't want to tell the cop that he had ass fucked his sister, and he hoped she hadn't told him."

"I didn't fire her, I gave her job back."

The cop pulled out his cell and texted Lucy. He waited the reply and looked up at Troy with a growl. "She says you made her let you butt fuck her to keep her job. Is that right?"

Troy didn't want to answer, but the cop was pissed and there were three other ones in the room and they all seemed to be friends. "Maybe," Troy replied. "She offered."

"No, she didn't. I know Lucy, she won't let any man in her back door. I know, I tried."

"You tried to ass fuck your own sister?"

"Where I'm from that perfectly acceptable," the cop replied.

"Really? Where are you from?" Troy asked.

"Seventieth and Pine," the cop replied.

"I thought you were going to say Denmark or something. You can ass fuck your sister at seventieth and Pine?"

"Never been a problem before. Except with Lucy, she's such a prude."

"I think you're just pissed because I got in there and you didn't.

"Don't tell me how I think," the officer said.

"So you think it was Lucy that shot at my house?"

"No, it was probably her lesbian girlfriend Brenda. She has a gun, Lucy doesn't own one. But we won't know for sure until we can locate a bullet and put it through ballistics."

Melissa found Troy and threw a shoe at the cameraman as she entered the room. "Can you get these assholes away from me?" Melissa asked.

"Sorry ma'am, we have a contract with them for a reality show," the cop said. "He has full access. I wouldn't throw any more shoes at him, you might end up on television."

Melissa had an idea and pulled off her top. It was so sheer that taking it off didn't show much more so she pulled off her thong as well. "If they're going to film me, I'll give them something to film," Melissa said. She waited for the cameraman to get her back in frame and stretched out her arms so he could get a good shot of her tits and pussy. "How do you like that cameraman?" Melissa asked.

"Can you turn around and bend over?" The cameraman asked. He wasn't joking.

Melissa did as he asked and turned around. She did her best job to grab her ankles after spreading her legs apart a few feet. She wanted him to get a great close up of her cooter. "How's that? Should I move to the right or left?"

It was then she saw him lying on the floor pointing the camera up between her legs. She took the opportunity to let go her bladder and piss all over his lens. He didn't seem to mind and kept filming.

# Chapter 7

# One week later

Troy laid on the couch running through the channel list looking for something to watch on television. He was bored sitting at home while his bar was being torn apart and refurbished and anxious to do something when his phone range. It was Diane.

"Hello?" Troy answered.

"How's it going?" Diane asked.

"I'm bored off my ass. The bar is torn to shit and there's nothing I can do until it's done."

"Bullshit, there's plenty to do. I'm sending over two girls to audition as dancers. They used to do a lot of porn but now mostly dance."

"Really?" Troy asked. Now his interest was perked.

"Yeah, they're twins. Very cute and tall. The kind of girls you're looking for. Are you starting to regret hiring me?"

"Fuck no, you've been awesome."

How's your maid working out?"

"She does a good job. I think she's getting jealous of all the attention I'm getting."

"Her job is to make you lunch and clean up after you. Like your mother did."

"Yeah, she never cleaned up after me. Too busy jet hopping," Troy replied.

"Sorry," Diane said. "The girls should be there any minute."

"Ok, thanks," Troy said and hung up his phone.

"Who was that?" Melissa asked. Today she was wearing a sheer purple baby doll dress with lavender border and lace along the edges. A matching purple thong and heels. Her lips were bright red and she paid special attention to her eyes trying to compliment the dress with her eye shadow.

"Diane," Troy replied. He didn't bother to look at Melissa and kept his eyes on the channel guide.

Annoyed she wasn't getting the attention she wanted, she grabbed the remote from Troy and turned off the television. "I need to clean the screen," she said.

"Go ahead," Troy said watching her sashay over to the huge screen.

Knowing she had his full attention, she sprayed the screen with some glass cleaner and slowly wiped it from side to side at the top and moved down giggling her butt as she went. With each swipe she bent over further and further until she all Troy could see was her plump round ass, her tapering feminine legs and those purple heels. For a plus size girl, she made him crazy.

When she was done she stood up and turned around facing Troy with one hip out, her toe pointed in and a hand on her hip. She looked like candy. "What did Diane want?" Melissa asked.

"She's sending over a set of twins to try out as dancers," Troy replied.

"Twins? Really? That would be a draw."

"She said they used to do porn."

"Porn stars and twins. Bonus." Melissa had a touch of sarcasm in her voice.

"Good idea, maybe I could market them that way."

"Maybe you could have live sex shows."

"Are you serious? You sound like you're making fun of me."

"No, I could see the sign now. 'Double your pleasure with our porn star twins.'"

"I like that," Troy said.

Then the doorbell rang.

"I'll get that," Melissa said. She stepped over to the door and opened it. What she saw was two six foot tall hot chicks with long hair and sunglasses. "Come on in," She said and let the girls inside. "Troy is in the living room."

Melissa watched the two girls walk past her and her blood boiled. Either one of them made her look like a frumpy gas station cashier.

Troy watched the girls enter the living room and stood up to greet them both. He put out a hand and introduced himself. The first girl said her name was Dannie, and the second Sandy.

"Diane told me you two were interested in working at the Diamond, is that right?"

"Yes," Dannie replied.

"Have you two been dancing long?"

"For about three years now."

"I'm surprised another club hasn't snatched you up."

Dannie hesitated a moment and replied, "We were both fired from our last club."

"Fired? Who would be insane enough to fire you two?"

"Our manager didn't like it when we turned him down. He thought we'd put out whenever he wanted so he found some excuse and canned us both."

"What was his excuse?" Troy asked.

"He said we were pocketing tips instead of turning them in."

"I thought that's how it worked, you kept your tips."

"No, we split them even with all the girls at the end of the night and the dj and bar staff get a cut."

"Is that normal?" Troy asked.

"It depends on the club. Not all do it that way."

"If I were pulling in all the tips, I'd be pissed if I had to split it with someone who wasn't."

"Trust me-that was an issue every night as well. I'm almost glad we got fired."

"How long have you been out of work?"

"Two months now."

"How have you been supporting yourself? Diane said you did porn."

"We did, but porn doesn't pay all that well. And it's hard to get good paying jobs."

"I didn't know. I figured it was all money and glamour. Does your sister talk?"

"She's not as outgoing as I am," Dannie replied.

"Well, I suppose we could get on with the audition. I can put on some music and you can do your thing. She did tell you that the Diamond will be going full nude?"

"No, but that's fine. I have no problem being naked."

Troy walked over to his stereo and put on some dance music. Dannie was dressed in some Capri style leggings that were skin tight with a set of low heels. Sandy was wearing a tight black dress that stopped mid-thigh. She also had on a low cut set of heels.

"Melissa here was thinking we could market you as our porn star dancers."

Dannie and Sandy looked over at Melissa with disdain. They thought she looked like a joke with her frilly dress and heels. Melissa instantly got the vibe and tried to leave the room.

"Can you get us some drinks?" Troy asked.

Melissa shrugged her shoulders and stomped into the kitchen to fetch the drinks. She was pissed.

"Ok," Troy said. "Let's see what you got."

Dannie auditioned first and slipped off her top. She didn't have much for tits, but the rest of her body made up for it. She spun around and pretended like there was a pole in the middle of the room grinding her back on it and spinning around. It didn't take long before she had her skin tight leggings off and her heels back on. She had no underwear on under her leggings so she was now nude dancing and slithering like a snake.

Troy tried not to drool watching Dannie dance and sat back down on his chair. Dannie took notice and stepped in close for a lap dance. She put up her right foot on the armrest and pushed her hips in close to Troy's face. All he could see was her amazingly clean shaven snatch staring back at him. Seeing Troy look between her legs, she reached from under her ass, between her legs and spread her pussy wide enough that he could see her engorged clit throbbing between her lips.

"Do I have the job?" Dannie asked.

Melissa watched from around the corner as this high class slut tried to entice her boss. She knew she could do better and wanted to do nothing more than beat that bitch with a bat.

"Maybe," Troy replied. He knew he was going to hire her, but if he said yes now, she might stop.

Sensing that Troy was hesitating. Dannie decided to go in for the finishing move and pressed her wet pussy into Troy's face and let him have a taste. As soon as she felt the stubble from his beard on her lips, his tongue entered her and licked the wetness away.

Melissa couldn't take it anymore and stomped back into the kitchen. Although she told Troy her body was off limits, no other woman had her permission to touch him. It was selfish on her part, but it was all a game to her. A game of ownership and perversion.

Dannie backed off and asked again, "Do I have the job?"

"Yes," Troy replied.

Dannie stepped away and put her arm around her sister and gave her a long passionate wet kiss. "I forgot to tell you. We do lesbian incest porn. Would you like to watch?"

Troy was ready to explode. Again he felt his balls start to throb as he wasn't able to release the sexual tension. "Can I record it?" He asked.

"Go ahead, if we both have the job."

Troy pulled out his phone and put it on video mode. He pointed the camera lens at the sisters and told them to start. Dannie pulled her sister's dress up over her head and tossed it on Troy. She then removed her bra and panties and again engaged her in a long slow kiss. Sandy placed her hands on her sister's smooth round ass and caressed it as the two sisters made out for Troy's pleasure. Sandy bent down and took Dannie's right nipple in her mouth. She rolled it and sucked it gently squeezing her left breast as Dannie closed her eyes and moaned with pleasure. Dannie looked to Troy who was rubbing his cock over his pants. "Do you like?" She asked.

Troy tried to steady the camera and play with himself at the same time but it was difficult. He wanted to put the phone down and join the sisters who were now on the ground, Sandy on top of Dannie kissing her neck. "I like a lot," Troy replied.

Dannie spread her legs wide enough for Sandy to slide in between them. She pretended to hump and grind her sister while sucking on her tits. She then flipped her leg so they were scissoring each other and grinded each other's pussy together. Sandy put her fingers on Dannie's clit and slid them up and down on her hood like she was jerking her off. Dannie closed her eyes and enjoyed what her sister was doing and returned the favor sliding her fingers on each side of Sandy's clit up and down in a matching rhythm.

From the kitchen Melissa watched the two sisters pleasure each other and in a way was turned on was well. Normally she didn't like girls and as a rule detested other women in general. But watching them go at each other made her wet enough that she could feel her own lips getting wet so she grabbed a paper towel and dried herself off.

"Melissa, come here," Troy yelled from his seat.

Melissa came out from the kitchen and Troy handed her his phone. "Take this and get some close ups," he said.

"What are you going to do?" Melissa asked. She didn't have to wait long for an answer as Troy pulled out his cock and began to stroke it watching Dannie and Sandy play with each other's pussies.

"I'm not going to record that for you. That's disgusting."

"You're my maid and I told you to record them. Do as I say or you're fired."

"You fire me and you'll never find anyone as good looking as me to vacuum your floors in these insane get ups."

"Insane? You keep going downtown and buying more. You must not hate it that much. All I'm asking you to do is get some close ups."

"So you can jerk off?" Melissa asked.

"This is my house and you are my maid. Why are you questioning me?"

"Fine," Melissa replied and walked over to the two girls who were now engaged in a hot sixty nine. "How do you want me to do this?"

"Get down and get a close up of them eating each other," Troy replied.

Reluctantly Melissa did as Troy said kicking off her heels and getting down on her knees to get a better shot. "You never said making porn was part of my job description."

"Shut the fuck up. I don't want your whining on the recording."

Melissa wanted to say something snarky back but kept her mouth shut. She looked at the view screen trying to get a good shot of the most disgusting thing she seen all day. In a way she was turned on, but in another she was grossed out because Troy liked them so much. It wasn't what they were doing to each other, it was who they were doing it for in the first place." Then Melissa looked over at Troy and saw him shoot a fountain of white cum into the air that fell back onto his jeans. He let out a groan and relaxed. Now she had to do laundry and wash the cum stains out of his jeans. Again.

# Chapter 8

# Revenge

In the basement Melissa sprayed the cum stain on Troy's jeans with stain remover and tossed them in the washer alone. She closed the lid and turned on the machine. Troy was gone for the afternoon checking out floor tile for the bar so she knew she'd be alone until late. And that gave her an idea. She liked being alone and she had an idea she'd wanted to act on for a while, but Troy never left the house unless Diane sent him on an errand for the bar.

Today was Melissa's day, and she wanted to get back at Troy for jerking off to the porn star sisters. Troy was hers, no one else's. So she did the first thing that came to mind and squatted over the clothes she took out of the washer lying in the basket and pissed on them. She stopped her stream for a moment and shook the basket rolling Troy's clothes around and pissed again making sure she covered his shirts and underwear.

When she was done pissing, she tossed the clothes into the dryer so the urine would be locked inside. It made her feel good to know she again marked her territory, like she had done with Troy's father. And she was just getting started. Before she left the basement, she turned on the dryer and scurried up the stairs to Troy's bedroom. She entered the room and saw that it was again a mess and dreaded cleaning it again. So she thought for a moment. How she could make this fun for her.

The first thing she did was make the bed and toss the dirty clothes in a different basket. She dug through his drawers looking for something she could use but found nothing. Then she spied his laptop on his dresser and tapped on a key to bring it to life as she had done a hundred times before. Only this time instead of a screen saver, she saw the output of several cameras that seem to have been placed throughout the house.

Immediately she noticed a shot of the toilet, and one inside the shower. Then she saw two in the spare bedroom that she used to store extra clothes. Staring in disbelief, a hot flash ran from the top of her head to the tips of her toes as she flew into a rage. "That motherfucker," She said aloud. Scanning the screen she saw some tabs on the bottom with small screen shots from the cameras. Each one had MPEG behind it and she knew these were video's he had stored so she clicked on one.

What she saw was a video clip of her sitting on the toilet either taking a shit, a piss or both. Totally embarrassed, she watched herself sit there and could hear her piss hit the water in the water at the bottom of the bowl. Then in horror she saw herself roll up some toilet paper and wipe herself and toss the paper in behind her. She stood up, pulled up her panties and the video stopped. She recognized the outfit she was wearing but couldn't tell when the video was shot because she had worn that outfit several times.

Looking at the other clips, she selected another and saw herself in the shower. It was a wide angle lens and she could see from her knees to about a foot over her head. Then the picture changed to another closer angle of just her waist from the front and in full view was her pussy. A minute later it again switched to her head to her tits and then back to the full view as if it were programed to cycle.

The video ran for about ten minutes and when she turned off the shower, the video stopped. Then she remembered that she liked to masturbate in her room when Troy was out. She didn't see a view on the top of the screen of her room, but saw something on the bottom that did, so she clicked on it. Up on the screen a large viewer popped up and what she saw was herself on the bed, nude with a hairbrush handle inside her going in and out as she rolled from side to side. There was audio and she could hear herself moaning while she banged herself with the brush.

She was livid realizing that Troy had been recording her all this time and probably masturbating to it in his room. Now she was really going to get back at him. The first thing she thought of was to toss the laptop in the shower and turn on the water. Or smash it with a hammer. But what was done was done and he probably had backup copies. For all she knew he could view the video or live feed on his phone.

She didn't see any other angles and figured that there were no other cameras in the house so she left his bedroom and stormed into the living room. She figured that if he wanted to see her, he was going to see her. Just like she did for his daddy. So she needed to work up some pussy juice and wanted to do it in a special way. She thought about what Troy used that she could use to pleasure herself with. Something he held on a regular basis that she could cover with her juices.

Then she saw it, on the couch lay a remote control for the television. It was long, had curved edges and was about the size of a cock. "Excellent," She said to herself and sat down where Troy usually sat. She slid down on the couch and put her feet up on the coffee table spreading her legs wide. She took the remote in one hand, pulled her panties to the side with the other and slowly inserted the remote into her vagina. She was usually wet most of the time, but with a lick of saliva on her finger, she was able to slip in inside leaving just the end to grasp onto.

In and out she moved the remote covering all the buttons with her juice. The rough edges of the buttons were very stimulating and for a while she forgot how pissed she was and enjoyed the ride. Again, in and out she motioned the remote, like she was jerking off to porn. Faster and faster she jerked herself as she felt the swell of an orgasm come on. Then she heard the door to the kitchen open and the clip clop sound of women's heels.

"What are you doing?" Diane asked. She was shocked at what she saw Melissa doing.

Melissa pulled the remote out of her vagina and instinctively tried to hide it. As if her mother had just caught her with her mother's dildo.

"Nothing, I'm taking a break," Melissa replied.

"I saw what you were doing. What were you using?"

Melissa pulled the remote out from behind her and set it on the armrest of the couch for Diane to see.

"I'm not sure whether to be grossed out or turned on. Don't you own any toys?"

"I do, but I don't have any here."

"You should bring some from home. I don't blame a girl for 'Jilling' off at work if she can. Hell, I do it three times a day. But you should find something better than a remote control. You might ruin it."

"Ok, I'll bring some from home."

Diane reached into her bag and pulled out a nine inch lifelike dildo with a suction cup attachment on the end and handed it to Melissa. "You can wash this off and use it if you want. Your kitchen floor tile should work for the suction cup, just lick it and stick it."

"You want me to do that now?" Melissa asked. She was still nervous at being caught and didn't want to upset Diane.

"If you want, I can show you," Diane replied.

Melissa handed the dildo back to Diane and she walked into the kitchen. She ran some hot water over it and used a little dish soap to clean it off. She then found a good spot in the center of the kitchen and got down on her knees. She licked the suction cup and stuck the dildo on the tile floor. "There, all you have to do is put it in and ride it like a horse."

Melissa was hesitant to try in front of Diane, so she asked, "Can you show me how?"

Always willing to help, Diane said "Sure," and took off her slacks and panties. She was now a teacher and she liked to teach people new things. "Ok, normally I put some lube on the tip, or on the shaft, but I don't have any."

"I do," Melissa said. She put her fingers in her own pussy and rubbed it in her juices. She then put her fingers on the head of the dildo and spread it around.

"Good idea," Diane said. "Now all you have to do is slide it inside." Diane lined the dildo up with her pussy and slid it in until her butt touched the floor.

"I don't think I could get that all the way inside," Melissa said.

"That's fine, just go as far as you can." Diane moved up and down on the dildo a few inches at a time until she was moving up the entire length of it. She leaned forwards, then back as she found the perfect position for it and rode it hard. Then she put a finger on her clit and rubbed as she bounced up and down. After a few minutes she looked to Melissa to see if she'd rub her clit for her. She didn't want to ask outright, but see if she got the hint.

Melissa saw the look in Diane's eye and moved in close putting her fingers over Diane's and rubbing along with her. Then Diane moved in for a kiss and Melissa let her as they both rubbed Diane's clit at the same time. The longer Melissa played with Diane's pussy, the more it turned them both on. Diane reached around Melissa and pulled her in tight. She slipped her tongue in Melissa's mouth and pounded the dildo like there was no tomorrow. The harder they kissed, the harder they rubbed Diane's pussy until she climaxed and let out a howl the neighbors could hear.

Diane relaxed and the two women separated. On the floor was a pool of Diane's pussy juice that covered five tiles. She raised up and let the dildo fall out and sat back on her butt with her legs spread. "Sorry about that, I wasn't planning on hogging it the whole time."

"That's ok, I enjoyed it."

"Do you want to try it?" Diane asked.

"If you don't mind, I'd rather try something else."

"Like what?"

"I'd like to take a shower with you, then eat you out on my bed. But Troy has cameras recording there.

"Really? He asked me to have some security cameras installed, but I thought that would be for the front porch and the back yard. How did you find out?"

"I was cleaning in his room and found the video's on his laptop."

"What were you doing with his laptop?" Diane asked.

"I was cleaning it and the screen popped on." Melissa lied.

"I don't think it's legal for him to be recording you without your permission."

"No shit," Melissa replied. "Why do you think I was banging myself with his remote?"

"Oh, I see. If you want to get him back, there are better ways."

"Like what?"

"He is my boss, so I probably shouldn't say anything, but you could take his laptop to the police."

"No, I like my job to much. I get paid twice as much as any other job I could find, and I get to wear pretty underwear."

"Yes you do," Diane said. "He tried to get me to do that, but I like my suit tops and skirt combo's"

"Yeah, I look like a lipstick lesbian and you're my bull dyke bitch," Melissa said with a grin.

"Is that a problem?"

"No," Melissa replied.

"I think you liked it when I pulled you in and kissed you."

"I did, but I would have preferred you told me to rub your clit instead of hinting at it. I'll do almost anything you want, as long as you are forceful about it."

"I didn't know that. Maybe next time I'll tell you exactly what I want."

"I thought it was my turn?"

"You're right, it is your turn, and what do you want to do?"

"Let's go in the living room, on the carpet. I want you to dominate me. I want to be your slave."

Diane had just had a hard orgasm, but what Melissa said was turning her on again. "Go then, in the other room."

Melissa stood up and walked to the living room followed by Diane who was stripping as he went. "On the floor," Diane commanded.

Melissa did as Diane said and laid on the floor.

Spread your legs and get ready to eat, cunt," Diane said. She looked down at the girl on the floor, still dressed in her panties and bra. She liked it that way. She preferred her girls feminine and girly. Down Diane squatted and placed her pussy on Melissa's lips. "Lick me, hard," she said.

Melissa did as Diane told her and licked her pussy. Then Diane leaned over and put her face in Melissa's pussy and returned the favor. For the next hour the two women ate each other, fingered each other's pussies and made out; neither one knew there was a motion triggered camera pointing right at them, and at this point neither one of them would have cared.

On the laptop in Troy's room, the two women were captured on video, pleasuring each other for Troy's entertainment.

# Chapter 9

# Chili cheese dogs

That evening Troy came home from his trip to the home improvement store with a fast food bag in his hand. When he entered the house, he smelled his favorite meal waiting for him, chili cheese dogs. Now he felt guilty he ate out and expected Melissa to chew him out. Instead he was greeted with a smile by his maid dressed in a black corset, thigh high black stockings and four inch black heels. She looked like a model with her blood red lipstick and dark pouty eyes.

"Did you get your hair done?" Troy asked.

"No, I did it myself," Melissa replied. "Do you like it?"

"What's there not to like? You torture me every day."

"This was your idea, not mine."

"Yeah, but I figured you'd put out once and awhile."

"'I'm not a prostitute, but today may be your lucky day."

"What do you mean?" Troy asked.

"Follow me," Melissa said and led Troy into the living room. In the middle of the room sat a chair from the kitchen. Attached to the wood were cuffs that looked like they came from a toy store. "You let me tie you up and let me have my way with you."

"Why the change?"

"I don't know, I'm feeling horny. Must be my cycle. We women go into heat every month, like dogs and we can't restrain ourselves. I need to relieve my sexual tension. Is that ok with you?"

Troy looked at the chair and was hesitant. He didn't like the idea of being tied up and felt out of control. But the idea of Melissa having her way with him, dressed as she was in the corset, was too much to bear. "What about the chili cheese dogs?" Troy asked.

"They can wait until we're done. You'll be hungry by then."

Troy took his seat in the chair and Melissa attached a cuff to each wrist. She then tied his legs to the chair legs with strips of cloth she found in the basement.

"See if you can get loose," Melissa said.

Troy tried to pull away from the cuffs but they held firm. "Where did you get these?" Troy asked.

"I ordered them online."

"They seem a lot stronger than I thought they'd be."

"I know, they're rated the same as police cuffs. I had to get them from China. They're illegal to sell in America."

"If they're illegal..."

"Shut up," Melissa said. She was stern, and bitchy. "I'll do the talking from now on."

"What's going on here Melissa?" Troy asked. He was very concerned.

Melissa smiled at Troy and stepped over to the fake fireplace. She picked up Troy's laptop and brought it over for him to see. She opened the lid and up popped the video of Melissa sitting on the toilet taking a piss in freeze frame. "Why were you recording me taking a piss?" Melissa asked.

Troy sat there looking at the picture of Melissa on the pot not saying a word.

"You like to watch me take a shit? And wipe? Does that turn you on you fucking sick bastard?"

"Yes, it does turn me on," Troy replied. He didn't look her in the eye as he said it.

Melissa set the laptop on the ground between her feet and pulled her panties over exposing her pussy. She squatted down and let herself piss on the keys. She made a circle motion as she did so she covered as much of the open laptop as she could. "I don't think it's good for laptops to get wet, do you?" She asked as she stood up.

"I'm sorry you found that," was all Troy could come up with to say.

"You're sorry I found it, or sorry you did it?" Melissa asked.

"Both," Troy replied.

"What were you going to do with the video? Upload it to some fetish website?"

Troy didn't reply and looked away.

"You already did didn't you?"

Troy still didn't reply.

"You were showing me taking a piss, and taking a shower, and playing with myself on the bed. You asshole!"

"I said I was sorry."

"No, you will be sorry when I get done with you," Melissa said as she stormed off to the kitchen. Troy swallowed hard as he waited for her to return with a gun or a knife. When she did return she had a steaming hot plate of chili cheese dogs in her hands. "Are you still hungry?" Melissa asked.

Troy waited for the worst she could do. He had no idea what she was capable of until she tossed the plate on his lap splashing his neck and chest with molten chili sauce. When he felt the burn on his skin, he screamed in pain to Melissa's amusement.

"How do you like that fucker?" She asked watching Troy writhe in pain.

"Get it off! Get it off!" Troy screamed.

Melissa could see his skin blister and turn bright red where the chili had landed. "Give it a minute, it will cool off. I'm not done with you yet." She took the time to pick up Troy's laptop and throw it against the wall. It fell to the ground but didn't break. "Fucking piece of shit," She said under her breath. She walked over to the laptop, took off her shoe and stomped on the keyboard trying to break it but it didn't do much.

"You stupid cunt, you can't break my laptop with your fat foot. Try sitting on it," Troy said.

Livid, Melissa walked over to Troy and slapped him across the face. "You didn't mind my fat when I was parading it around here like a stripper for your entertainment!"

"That's because you were the only girl that would do whatever I told you. If I could have found a skinny girl, I wouldn't have hired you."

"Liar, you told me you liked bigger girls."

"I like bigger girls because you can manipulate them. Fat chicks will do anything for a man's attention. "I know because I used to fuck them all the time when I was out working at the hotels. They all thought I had money, and they ate it up. All they got out of me was a pussy full of my blow," Troy said with a grin. "Stupid fat cows."

"Stupid fat cow huh?" Melissa asked. "Let me show you what a stupid fat cow is capable of."

Troy watched Melissa leave the room and head down to the basement. For a few minutes he could hear her banging around downstairs as if she was looking for something. Then he heard her come back up the steps and walk back into the living room. She was holding a three foot section of PVC pipe in her hand. Nothing hard, but deadly if swung with force.

"What are you going to do? Beat me with your pipe?"

"No, first I'm going to cut your nuts off," she replied brandishing a pair of scissors in her other hand.

"I'd like to see you try," Troy said. "You'll have to kill me first."

"No, I'll beat you unconscious with this pipe and then cut them off. Maybe I'll boil them and make you eat them."

"My dad never said there was anything wrong with you. How did you manage to work for him so long? Did you try to cut his nuts off?"

"Your dad was a great man. You're mother on the other hand was a psycho that poisoned him."

"He cheated on her, it was his fault," Troy said.

"Your mother should have let him do as he pleased. He was the man. She should have bowed down to him."

"You know, I'm a womanizer and a prick, and I even find that offensive. You're a woman, how can you say that?"

"I know my place. I would have done anything for your father."

"Sounds like you had a crush on him."

"I did," Melissa replied.

"Did he know about it?"

"No, I kept it a secret until his death. I was in the house the day he died."

"What do you mean?"

"I killed your mother, with a golf club. I didn't know he was dead at the time, but I hated that bitch."

"What were you doing in my parents' house? It happened on a weekend, you don't work weekends."

"That's right. I expected them to be gone for the weekend, so I came to the house. I had my own key. I came there like I did whenever they were gone so I could be close to your father the only way I knew how."

"And how was that?"

"None of your fucking business," Melissa replied. "I didn't know they came back and your mother caught me. I had no choice but to kill her. Then I found out later she had killed David."

"So now you want to kill me?" Troy asked.

"You took advantage of me, took video of my when I was vulnerable and shared it with the world. You deserve to die like your mother did. If I had a golf club, I'd use it on you as well. But all you do is watch NASCAR on television. You don't have a sport so my only choice is to use this pipe to beat you to death. That is, after I castrate you."

"Let me make this right," Troy said.

"Make it right how?" Melissa asked.

"I'm rich, very rich. I'll pay you to let me live."

"Then turn me in the first chance you get."

"No, I promise I won't say a thing."

"I just confessed to murdering your mother, are you insane?"

"You can get on a plane, leave the country."

"You broke my trust when you recorded me."

"I'll wire money into your bank account and I'll fly with you. When we land I'll go back."

"You must think I'm some sort of special stupid. No, you can't buy your way out of this. You will die tonight," Melissa said.

"What will you do then? You'll go to prison when they find me dead. You might have gotten away with one murder, but you won't get away with mine."

"I'll be halfway across the country before they find me. I know where you keep your cash stash and that should sustain me until I can get reestablished somewhere else."

Troy knew he was out of ideas and awaited his fate. "Fine, do what you will then."

"Stop telling me what to do prick. I'll take you out when I'm ready."

Troy watched Melissa walk back to the kitchen with the pipe in her hand. She was now calmer and less likely to take a swing at him. He tried to think fast and pulled on the cuffs to see if he could snap off the armrests of the chair. He knew with enough force, he could break free, but he didn't think he had the time if she was going to hang around. So he needed a plan to get her to leave him alone for a while. "Why don't you go to the bank and withdraw some more cash."

"It's eight thirty at night, what bank is open this late? And you have plenty of cash to get me by."

"The Oak Lake mall branch is open until ten, you could go there."

"I counted your cash many times. You have over fifty grand in your underwear drawer. How much do you think I need?"

"That won't last six months if you're on the run. You'll need at least ten times that much."

"And you think they're going to hand that over to me at the mall? Are you kidding?" Melissa asked. She was almost to the point of laughing. "You need to work on your stalling tactics. I'm going to put your cash in my bag. I'll be right back."

Troy watched Melissa leave and head to his bedroom. This was the only time he had to try to break free so he kicked the chair backwards, tipping it over and slamming onto his back. The wood rungs dug into his ribs and he hurt like hell but kept his mouth shut. Pulling and tugging he yanked from side to side trying to tear the armrests off the chair. Then he heard one pop, and then the other and they came loose from the back. He pulled more and they tore off completely. His cuffs were still attached to the wood, but now he was able to reach down and untie the cloth straps that held his feet to the chair legs.

# Chapter 10

# Mexican Standoff

Wrestling free, Troy grabbed his cell phone and texted Diane to come to the house. He didn't want to call the police because of what he had done to Melissa recording her without her consent. He needed help and he needed his personal assistant more than ever. Unable to get his arms free from the arm rests, he stood up and slammed them against the wall to break them free from the cuffs. One broke loose but the other wouldn't come apart. At least he had it hanging from his right arm and could swing it like a weapon if Melissa came after him.

Melissa came back into the living room and saw Troy standing with the cuffs still attached to his wrists and the armrest dangling from the right cuff. Troy swung the armrest back and forth so he could sling it at Melissa if she came at him. Seeing Troy had a weapon, she stepped back into the kitchen and pulled a carving knife from the butchers block.

"Seems we're at a standstill," Troy said.

"They call it a Mexican standoff," Melissa said. "Don't you watch any Tarantino?"

"I don't care what you call it, I can take a girl anytime. Knife or no knife."

"What a fucking sexist pig. I told you I was going to cut your balls off and I meant it. Come at me and I'll show you."

Troy spun the armrest around trying to intimidate Melissa. The burns on his chest were weeping blood and water from the blisters.

"I don't think you can do much damage anyway. Looks like I burned you pretty good."

Troy took a step forwards and stopped. The skin on his abdomen was inflamed and felt like it was still on fire.

"Why don't you sit the fuck back down and let me take care of you," Melissa said.

"What? And let you carve me up with your knife?"

"It doesn't have to end this way. I was planning on leaving you behind alive."

"Then why?"

"Because you're an asshole and deserve to beg for your life. I only killed your mother because she came after me. Don't make the same mistake she did. Now sit the fuck down. I'll call an ambulance after I leave." Then she saw the cellphone on the floor. "Who did you call? The police? If you did you're going to prison for recording me in the bathroom. I'll tell them I was defending myself"

"I have a camera in here recording everything you do and say. I'm sure tossing red hot chili on me is considered assault and is a felony," Tony said.

Melissa didn't know what to say. If the police were coming she was fucked so she needed to leave fast, before they got there. Then she heard a knock at the door and heard it slide against the kitchen tile. She turned to see Diane enter the kitchen and panicked.

"Calm down," Diane said. She could see the fear in Melissa's eyes.

"That fucker tried to kill me," Melissa said.

Troy snapped, "Look at me, she tied me to a chair and tried to burn me. I'm the one that needs help. She tried to kill me."

Diane looked at both Troy and Melissa and shook her head. "I can't believe what's going on here. Troy, sit down and let's try to work this out."

"What about her?" Troy asked.

Diane stepped over and put her hand out for the knife. Melissa put the knife in her hand and gave Diane a long wet kiss.

"What the fuck?" Troy asked. "Why are you making out with my maid?"

"Me and Melissa have bonded, if you know what I mean."

"No I don't, please explain."

"She and I have a relationship now. The same kind of relationship you wanted to have with her."

"You're fucking my maid?"

"Just once, but I'm sure we'll do it again."

"You need to call the police," Troy said.

"I don't think so, I'm getting tired of working for you, and with a few changes in your will, and I'll be doing fine once you're gone."

"What changes?"

"I am the sole benefactor of your estate. You signed the papers last week."

"That was ownership papers for the bar," Troy said.

"Oh, about that. I also own the Diamond. You were gracious enough to buy it for me."

Troy couldn't believe what he was hearing. "Those girls I sent over for an audition I paid to put on a show. Just to keep you from bothering me while I took over. They were porn stars all right. Never danced a day in their lives."

"So now what are you going to do?"

"It looks like Melissa here was going to stab you with a knife. Maybe I should give it back to her and let her finish what she started," Diane said.

"So you can lez off over my dead body?" Troy asked.

"No, we'd go in one of the bedrooms I'm sure," Diane replied with a smile.

"And how would you explain my body? There would be blood all over the place, all over her."

"She could plead self-defense, looks to me like you're trying to attack her."

"Bullshit, she did this to me."

"I'll testify you made an attempt on her life. I will stand up for her in court and her and I will live happily ever after."

"Fucking carpet munchers!" Troy yelled. "You won't get away with this!"

"Remember when you asked me to have the cameras installed in the house? I had the contractor set it up so I could see everything you were recording. I have records of you recording Melissa on the toilet, in the shower. How do you think that will play out in court? Not that you will care, you'll be dead."

"How long have you been plotting against me?" Troy asked

"Since you made me interview in my underwear. No man treats a lady like that. I feel sorry that you took advantage of Melissa. I'll make sure she is taken care of right once you're gone."

"That leaves one thing left for you to do, and that's kill me. There may be two of you, but I won't go down without a fight."

Diane stepped back to the kitchen counter and pulled another long knife from the butcher's block and handed Melissa her knife back. The blade felt good in her hand as she looked at her reflection. "You go to the right, I'll go to the left. Keep stabbing until he's down and then keep stabbing until he stops moving," she said to Melissa.

Troy stepped back and looked around for anything he could use to defend himself with besides the armrest attached to his wrist. He found nothing so he swung the armrest in the air in circles keeping the two women at bay. "Come on bitches, I'm ready for you," he said.

Then in a surprise attack, Melissa plunged her knife into Diane's neck and pulled out. She stabbed her in the chest and then in the back as she fell to the living room floor. Troy stood dumbfounded not knowing what to do or say. Melissa looked at Troy and saw she had tears in her eyes.

"Why?" Troy asked.

"That cunt knew all along what you were doing to me and did nothing to help. Do you think I trust her? The moment you're dead, she'd stab me and blame it on the both of us." Melissa replied.

"Yeah, I suppose you're right," Troy said. "So now what?"

"I'm still leaving, you can do what you want. She fucked you over good and you need to get your life back together. I'm still taking your cash and if you have any sympathy for me you'll let me go and not try to contact me."

Troy shook his head in disbelief. "Go, take the money. I have plenty more where that came from. You keep your mouth shut, and I'll do the same."

"How are you going to explain her?"

"She bilked me out of thousands of dollars and changed my will without my knowledge. I'll tell them she came after me to kill me to get my inheritance. It's not far from the truth."

Melissa dropped her knife and turned to leave. She wanted this whole nightmare to end. And it did when Troy attacked her and hit her in the skull with the armrest. There was no way he was going to be used by any woman. Not his mother, his personal assistant, nor his maid.

The end.

