

MEN!

Written by Aaron

PART 1

Indianapolis - March 2016

This city was country as hell, the only thing worth talkin bout here is that stupid 500! But there were these 4 boys.....Steven McAllister, Jonathan Willis, Princeton Hernandez and Braselton "Braze" Greene, each of these boys were just finishing community college together! They were friends all they life, it all started back in kindergarten when Steven walked over to Princeton who was crying for some reason, and after being all nice they became friends! Then years later as Steven an Princeton went to Kobe Bryant Elementary school they were in math class when 2 new kids cane in....tall ass Braze an cute lil Jonathan! After realizing they had a lot in common they all 4 became friends! When they were old enough to get cell phones they would talk all the damn time talkin bout they crushes an whatnot, but all 4 of these boys had something in common, THEY WERE ALL GAY! Steven came out first to Princeton while they was talkin on the phone, then Princeton revealed his gay ness when he saw this gay porn magazine at his aunties house and he liked what he saw! Then a week later Jonathan an Braze came out while the boys were all texting each other! Jonathan was wilder tho, he already had 3 boyfriends before he was 14....all in the same year! And when he was 15 he was at summer camp when this cute ass boy who he was crushing on shared a cabin with him, and Jonathan sucked him dry!! Fast forward to now, Jonathan (who's 20), was the lit member of the group an he always goin to the club with his home girls Tiana an LaKeyshia. It was Friday night and he was gettin ready to get all the way fucked up....

(Jonathan's mental commentary)  
bitchhhh I am so ready for tonite yesss! I hadn't had dick in like 2 months, I already douched an put on this cute ass see thru thang I bought, so tonight lord I'm hopin I'll get lucky..

"Hey Tiana gurl you late where you been my ass gettin cold in this mesh!"

"Nigga I had to get gas, and why you wearing that thing anyway I mean it's cute tho...."

"Cause tonite imma get some..." Jonathan said all excited

"Hoe ass nigga!"

"Uh don't hate cause I get way more than you, an I suck it way better than you wit these suction cup lips god blessed me with!"

"Whatever you know I'm playin wit you boo, LaKeyshia couldn't make it but tonight we goin to the Hot Tamale oooh an I know you gon like it cuz it's gay men's night!" Said Tiana

"Well okaaaaaay then, I'm ready to fuck shit up!!"

Then Jonathan an Tiana went to the club, Indy aint got a lot of gay people so there was like one or two gay clubs, an The Hot Tamale was the most lit one! When they both got to the club Jonathan saw the place was packed an the men were FINE!! He went to the bar to get a drink since it was $1 till 11:30, and as he sat on the bar stool he poked his booty out a lil bit to kinda drive attention....and then it happened!

(Jonathan mental commentary)  
Lord Jesus!!!! He cute asf ooooh he got a beard an Everythang, oh shit he sittin next to me..THIS COULD BE MY LUCKY NIGHT....

"Aye What's yo name!" Said this man

"My name Jonathan, who are You wit yo cute self?"

"I'm Trevor, you single?"

"Yes and.....ready to mingle, ooooh you so sexy, Why don't we go back to my place....." Jonathan said all seductive

(Jonathan mental commentary)  
Oh shit this is itttttt

"Nah I don't mind!" Trevor said Lookin horny

Then Jonathan an his one night stand Trevor went out the club, Tiana saw and Jonathan winked at her.....he caught himself a nigga! Jonathan apartment just happened to be near the club and after a few drinks, Trevor took off his shirt and then they both started kissin real good, Jonathan was gettin turned on feelin on Trevor's big arms!

"Oooh, you got juicy ass lips!" Trevor said

"Thank you. And imma use them real good real soon...."

"I like the sound of that! You look like you a pro with them jaws!"

"Listen I gotta pee first so go in my room and take all them clothes off, I'll be ready.."

Then Jonathan went into his bathroom and he was kinda nervous but excited at the same time, but he put on his sexy lotion and got the cinnamon apple lube, it was time for demolition of his walls!

(Jonathan's mental commentary)  
Lord, please don't let this dick be too big, hopefully he ain't too rough or catches feelings for me I just need him to bust this nut an go home, but my body needs this oooh he waitin on me gotta hurry this up...

Then Jonathan came back out wearing his sexy see thru underwear, but when he got to the bedroom he got the shock of his life....Trevor ON HIS BACK WITH LEGS UP IN THE AIR,

"GIVE IT TO ME NIGGA!!!!" He shouted

(Jonathan mental commentary)  
WHAT THE ENTIRE FUCK! THIS NIGGA A BOTTOM....HOW....I MEAN HE WAS ALL MANLY IN THE BAR, but I ain't letting this fine nigga go to waste I guess I can be a top for one night I mean all I gotta do is put it in an pull it out.....

Then Jonathan went over to him and got the lube, As he got on top it kinda turned him on a lot to see Trevor arch that ass like that! So then it was the moment of truth....Jonathan put it in and went back an forth, then grabbed Trevor's ass and went a tad harder! Jonathan really started to like this.....and so was Trevor the way he moaning!! But only 5 minutes into this one night stand Jonathan felt this weird feeling, so he pulled out and to his horror....his dick got the dreaded "paint job"!! It even got all on his sheets and the smells was nasty! Jonathan was really pissed....

"EWWWWW NIGGA DID YOU CLEAN YOURSELF!!"

"I thought I did you know I guess it was the chipotle....."

"GET YO STANK ASS OUT MY HOUSE JUST NASTY AS HELL!"

Then Trevor got his clothes on an ran out the door, and Jonathan was really upset, he got painted on and he ain't even a top! He was supposed to be the one bent over not the other way around!!

(Jonathan's mental commentary)  
Omg this is soooo....I swear this the last time I'm picking up man from the club!!"

Sunday Brunch

All 4 boys decided to get some grub at the Cheesecake Factory, Braze invites all of them cause he had some exciting news! Braze an Jonathan were like the golden girls they were always shading each other, but Jonathan had news of his own and he was eager to spill!!

"Hey sis you look fabulous today!" Said Braze to Jonathan

"Well you sure don't!"

"Nigga At least my walls are still intact tho, yo bussy wide open like this bagel!" Said Braze

"Well at least my dicks are over 18...." Jonathan said

"For the last time I didn't know he was 16 he was tall as me!"

"Oh my god y'all niggas goin at it this early in the mornin!" Said Steven as he came in with his cute self

"Heyyy, you lookin cute Werk it with that small waist!" Jonathan said

"OOOP these shades Prada, okaaay mister Steven I see you, we both high fashion..." Braze Said

"Braze you shoppin at Goodwill ain't exactly what I call "high fashion"! Jonathan said as he sipped his orange juice

"(Chuckle) Why the hell y'all fighting," Said Princeton

"Hey prince boo, anyway I'm glad you all are here cuz I got exciting news.....Well I told y'all I got a internship at this firm and it's in ATL yessss, imma be movin next week!" Braze Said

"Omg Im happy for you, well you know how I'm been like trying to build my modeling career, well this one agency want me an guess where it is.....ATL!!" Steven said

"Yesssss we can be roommates!" Said Braze

"Well I got news too, I'm goin to graduate school at Morehouse so y'all make room for me too!" Said Princeton

"Yesss my besties lives are comin together I'm livin for this!!" Braze shouted

"Oooooh Morehouse that's fine nigga central, nothin but chocolate men JESUSSSS!!" My bussy hurts thinkin bout all thatttt!" Jonathan said

"Your hoe ass would think that, and speaking of being a hoe I heard you got lucky the other night!" Braze Said tryna be messy

"More like it got funky.....ok so it all started when my girl Tiana took me to this club an I saw this cute guy, an he looked like a top, so when we went home I get undress an this nigga archin his ass!"

"Wait....he was a bottom, but ain't you a bottom too?" Steven asked

"....a messy bottom," Braze murmured

"Yes but he was so cute I actually topped him..."

(All other the boys laugh)

"What in the hell is so funny," Jonathan said

"You....A TOP, I just....I just can't!!!" Steven cackled

"Well I did an I think I was doin good he was moanin like I would do an then I felt somethin mushy so I pulled it out and (dramatic fake crying).....I got a paint job!!!

"Hold up, you mean he forgot to....." Braze asked

".....yeah he did,"

"You went in pale but came out brown?" Princeton asked

"(Dramatic crying).....yesssss all on the sheets I abused the washing machine gettin all that shit off ugh these guys here are so immature I can't wait to get out of here!" Said Jonathan

"Then what you waitin on come to ATL with us at least for a few months so you can get a change of scenery an so we can all be roommates with our crazy asses!!" Braze Said

Then Jonathan gave it some thought, and he decided to pack his bags an he was just about pack his douche when he realized something....

(Jonathan's mental commentary)  
Maybe it's time I stop doin all this fuckin around, I'm tired of givin my all to some random guy only for him be around for one night then he buss his nut an goes home and I start all over again, I really need to change......an that's exactly what I'm gon do!

The next week....

It was time an all the boys packed they bags and met up at Braze house they were gonna ride to Atlanta together! Princeton was still living with his parents who didn't know he was gay and on top of that had inner issues such low self esteem an insecurity with his darker than usual skin. Princeton had this skin brightening cream which nobody really knew he used...

(Princeton's mental commentary)  
God I hate the way I look maybe that's why no boy wants me, why couldn't I be lighter, maybe in ATL I'll have some luck.....and get away from them two out there!

"Honey you almost ready," Princeton Mom asked

"Yeah I'm ready for Morehouse!"

"Awww look Ivan, he's all grown up, now you make sure you be on your best behavior!"

"Yes ma'am...."

"An you only focus on school not those fast tailed lil girls!"

"Yes ma'am....."

"An don't get mixed up with that sissy faggot stuff I heard Atlanta got lots of it down there," Said Princeton's homophobic Dad

"....trust me I won't, Braze is coming I'll be waiting outside," Princeton Said as he walks out the door

"Byeeeee, call us when you get there!!"

(Princeton mental commentary)  
Ugh I hate them so much, my dad is such an asshole I'm glad I'm getting away from him! You would think the Britney Spears be a dead giveaway....but ATL here I come!

PART 2

Somewhere in Kentucky...

The boys were comin down the highway an Braze had to make a stop, the trip would've been more comfortable if Braze wasn't such a terrible driver or the fact he won't shut up! The boys were singing along to "Single Ladies" by Beyoncé when they got hungry, so Braze pulled over to this IHOP...

"Ugh how long till we get to Atlanta?" Steven asked

"Only 6 more hours," Braze Said

"Well we would've gotten there way earlier if Steven hadn't had diarrhea, nigga what you eat!" Princeton asked

"I don't know I had chocolate milk but I didn't know the milk was expired...." Steven said in shame

"Yeah till we were 3 hours into the trip an there was no rest-stops, I'll never look at a Bush the same way ever again!" Braze Said

"Well you feelin better now?" Princeton asked

"Yeah I do now, but I just want some orange juice,"

"Well I got some news, im no longer a hoe, IM CELIBATE!" Jonathan shouted

(All the boys laugh)

"What....I can stop suckin dick,"

"Nigga you can't go 5 minutes without thinkin bout a man!" Braze Said

"Yes I can just watch, for a whole 3 months I won't suck or fuck!"

Then while the boys were about to order, soon this cute lightskin waiter with sideburns came towards them an Jonathan was smitten!

(Jonathan mental commentary)  
Oh sweet Jesus this man so....omg what am I doin, He got me rock hard an I'm supposed to be doin this celibate thing, BUT IHOP ON THAT DICK!!

Braze was on his way to the bathroom when this kid ran in front of him an when he stepped out his way, he bumped into a unexpected familiar guy....

"Omg Elijah how you been what you doin here!"

"Im seeing family, but I been alright how bout you......."

(Braze mental commentary)  
God I use to love this man with every thing up in me, he was kinda rough around the edges but he treated me right...till awhile back we had a fallin out over something stupid I can't remember but just lookin at him tho, how can I possibly stay mad, sometimes I wish we can start over....

"I'm doing fine I'm on my way to Atlanta with my friends we're starting a new life together but it was nice seeing you again!"

"You too I hope everything goes well an who knows we might see each other again....Elijah said

Then after the breakfast was over the boys went back inside the van and headed south for ATL finally!

"You guys I ran into my ex Elijah today like out of the bloom and I think he still wants me?"

"Braze you need to focus on your money an get your life together you don't relight an old flame if there ain't nothin there, besides all those men in ATL just waiting for us! You do know where ya goin right?" Steven said

"Yes nigga, yall gon love the townhouse it's so cute and it's like 4 rooms so we each get our own," Braze Said

(Princeton mental commentary)   
I can't wait till we get to Atlanta, I have a feeling that I'll find somebody that'll like my ugly ass....

(Steven mental commentary)   
I hope these modeling people like me, I remember my exes said I was too ugly to be a model, what if they right....fuck them im cute an I'm gon make it!

(Jonathan's mental commentary)  
3 months, I can do it, I'm tryna prove these niggas wrong that I'm not that big of a hoe, but this 3 month of no dick (sigh)....lord

(Braze mental Commentary)  
Damn all of our crazy asses gon be roommates, ATL should be quite an experience, but I low key wish it was Elijah that was with me instead of these hoes...

Atlanta....

The boys finally arrived in town, Braze went to this townhouse he saw on the west side of town and the bedrooms were kinda small, but they were just happy they finally made it to the hippest gay city in the country! The boys went to the store to get some snacks while Braze stayed behind movin in the bags and setting up the air mattresses, but then across the street this fine ass guy who was walkin his dog came over.....instantly catching Braze eye,

(Braze mental commentary)  
Well damn who is this, fine ass an caramel wit big arms an ooooh he in a tank top too, niggas in tank tops make me quiver.....my heart still with Elijah but we can least be friends

"Hi uh who you are you?" Braze asked

"I'm Bryshere I'm your new neighbor, you guys like roommates or something?"

"Yeah we all just moved from Indy just tryna start over ya know!"

"Yeah I hear you, it's like you just......."

(Braze mental commentary)   
Damn those arms, oh dear god I can't stop lookin an oh shit, I didn't know his lips were that....succulent an he needs to stop lickin them like that,

"Oh yeah yeah I hear what you sayin," Said Braze pretending to listen

"You don't mind if I ask....are you gay? I mean the way you lookin at me" Said Bryshere

"Yes I am and I have a boyfriend, well ex-boyfriend, me an him didn't work out,"

"Well that's a shame you kinda cute, I'm gay too....an I'm single, so if you wanna go out sometime...

"YES!" Braze suddenly responded

"Alright well here my number, text me..." Said Bryshere as he walked away

Then Braze was all giddy on the inside, he only been in Atlanta for an hour an he already got a date! When the boys were all settled in, Steven was about to go to bed when he saw Jonathan in his room reading something

"Nigga what you reading, Playgirl?"

"No the Bible...."

"Ok wait wait wait you was serious bout this dick diet?"

"Yeahhhh I mean I'm trying to go on the right path, I'm trying to be pure IM TIRED OF SUCKIN DICK AN GIVIN MY BOY PUSSY AWAY AN NOTHIN IN RETURN!" Jonathan shouted

"You BETTA not start singin his eye on the sparrow!"

"What y'all doin it's 1:30 in the mornin!" Braze Said

"Jonathan readin the Bible....." Steven rolled his eyes

"Yess cuz im gonna see my Jesus PRAISE HIM!"

"Jonathan, sis you can read the first word of Genesis to the last word of Revelation an yo ass still goin to hell roasting like a pig on a open fire!" Braze Said

"Hater....now if y'all will excuse me I got some meat to beat!"

"WAIT, I thought you was all holy an shit! Steven said

"I said I stop suckin dick, the lord don't care if I bust a nut! Goodnight!"

Then Braze went to his room when his phone went off, it was Bryshere and they were talkin bout gettin lunch together! Steven saw Braze smiling and tried to get the tea!

"Who you textin?"

"Why you all up in my business, his name Bryshere he lives in the neighborhood he asked me out!"

"Ooooh Okay Braze I see you, but I need to ask you still got feelins for Elijah? Asked Steven

"I'm not even thinkin bout him goodnight!"

".....yeah okay,"

(Braze mental commentary)  
Hell yeah I still got feelins for him but I'm moving on maybe Bryshere might treat me so good I'll forget bout Elijah...but It's hard as fuck

The next day.....

Steven was starting his new modeling career an it was a photo shoot happening, the photographer was the famed Algee Smith an his work an editing skills were amazing as hell, and he was also cute too, with his scruffy face and his style oooh Steven was trying hard not to get hard especially on camera but the way Algee took control and tellin people what to do and the way he cross his arms omg! All these little things made Steven dig him even more! Steven wanted to share his portfolio with Algee an see if he can get somewhere with him,

"Yo Steven, these pics straight fire my nigga I mean you just own it you give so much of yourself and that's what I like about you," Algee Said

"Thanks listen I have like a portfolio and I don't know if I can but I wanted to like show you what I'm capable of and my stuff!"

"Yeah I don't mind, listen um there's this great like ice cream spot up the street meet me after work and you know we'll make magic happen baby!!"

(Steven mental commentary)  
Damn nigga I just wanna suck you all over...wait...I sound like Jonathan hoe ass! Steven get it together he ain't all that, oh shit what am I sayin he a sexy ass nigga!

"Yeah we can meet like after 5 I'll um see you there!" Said Steven

It was later on that day an Steven met up with Algee at this place he was talkin bout, THIS WAS NOT A DATE, but it damn sure felt like one! Steven sat outside an waited 10 minutes, then 30, then 45 an finally an hour had past an still no Algee! Steven was starting to think it was a waste of time an was about to go but then suddenly Algee came thru an he was wearing this tight ass shirt which showed off his chest!

"Hey sorry I'm late ooooh that traffic was so bad, should've never taken the 400 but I'm here now so what you got for me!!"

"Well these all my pics I ever done since 2014 and as you can see I like personal eclectic shots I don't know I think it's the ambience of it but yeah, did a few facials, some nudes an other stuff, what you think? Steven asked

"I think you amazing, yo you're like really made for the camera, I think wit my editing skills we can make you like on some supermodel shit!" Algee Said

"Why thank you!"

"Why don't you Come over to my personal studio like tomorrow or Thursday so I can feel you and get to like know you better.."

(Steven mental commentary)  
Hell Yeah im comin to yo place, nigga you can feel on me anytime witcho fine ass

"Yeah I'll see you next week!" Steven said

Meanwhile Princeton was in Morehouse an the School was filled with all these fine men! Princeton was majoring in electronic engineering and in his class was this one guy named Luke, he was like so cute an a tad older but still cute! Princeton was in the cafe sittin by himself when Luke came over

"Hey Princeton wassup!"

"Hey Luke um do you have the notes for yesterday I lost mines,"

"Yeah hold on....

(Princeton Mental Commentary)   
God this guy is sooooo, words can explain how cute he is, but I don't know if he wants me tho, lemme see how this plays out, he can't say I'm too dark for his taste cuz he dark as me, but omg what if it's my teeth, or my face lord hopefully he won't notice...

"Um listen I need help with this test next week an um....can you be my study buddy? I know it's boring as hell...."

"YESS!" Princeton Said real quick

"Aw man thanks, we can do it at my dorm like tomorrow or something and I got snacks an stuff," Luke said

"That's sounds great I'll be there!"

(Princeton mental commentary)  
Ok did he just low key ask me out? Okaaay god I see you doin your thang, my parents tellin me that being gay is wrong....well if it's wrong, then I damn sure don't wanna be right!

PART 3

It was 3 weeks Jonathan since gave up his hoe ways and instead of goin to the club to pick up men, he went to this book night get together (he was an avid reader). The group was in the bookstore and Jonathan was reading this book called "The Tale Of Two Bitches" and it was such a good ass book that Jonathan couldn't put it down, when this guy sat down at the table Jonathan was sitting......and he was about to change a nigga's life!!

"Yo is anybody sittin here?"

"No you can sit here, who are you?

"I'm Keith, you mind if I sit here!"

"Yeah um ain't nobody sitting here!

"Thanks....."

Jonathan and Keith started having a convo about the book they were reading and then had conversations about other things and Jonathan was surprised at how much they had in common! Keith was so different, he didn't show any signs of being a fuckboy and he wasn't lookin to buss a nut or anything like that, but Jonathan was really tempted tho to give him the booty!

(Jonathan's mental commentary)   
Damn he's cute as hell, oh what am I doing I'm supposed to be all changed and shit, but what's the harm in getting to know him tho but damn the way he talks and his whole entire existence, I just wanna ride him like a motorcycle..

Jonathan was gettin ready to go when he noticed Keith had a bus pass, and decided to give him a ride....where it be just two of them!

"Yo thanks for the lift, I don't have many friends so I'm kinda like lame (chuckles) but I like hanging with you you're cool!" Keith said

"Yessss like who would've thought I meet a friend at book night!" Jonathan said

"Yeah an who knew I find a Nigga who was into drama an sci fi books too!"

"Uh Keith can I tell you something.....you're fuckin cute! I JUST HAD TO SAY IT! But um I'm not really lookin for a boyfreind right now tho, I had a....lot of exes and I don't know if you even gay or not,"

"Well actually imma gay nigga too, don't let my deep voice an shit fool you I got my pride!"

(Jonathan's mental commentary)  
Ooooooh that means he's a top!

They pulled up to Keith's house and Jonathan gave him his number, Jonathan didn't know if he looked desperate or friendly but Keith took it anyway an smiled.......and that smile had Jonathan feeling some type of way!

(Jonathan's mental commentary)  
Omg I hope he don't think I'm strange an actually calls, but if he does lord I promise to avoid the dick an imma just get to know this nigga, I mean he's soooooo....EVERYTHING!

Braze and Bryshere had been goin out together for a bit and Braze was loving every minute of it, Bryshere was just everything Braze wanted from a man......an he thought this was too good to be true! Elijah was the same good ass man and then BAM he cheated with some ugly ass nigga which shocked Braze! But Braze had his thoughts about Elijah tho, yeah he fucked up but his good qualities outweigh the bad....and that's not including the sex! Braze felt his heart strings were constantly being pulled but one afternoon he went to Piedmont park on his lunch break when suddenly....

"Elijah, oh my gosh what are you doin here!

"I live here now! Um you look good babe....I mean Braze, well uh it was nice catching up wit you but I gotta go!" Elijah stuttered

"I still love you......."

"Say what!"

"Elijah you meant everything to me, I was really hurt when you cheated on me, but ever since then I learned to forgive you an I know this is out the ordinary but I......."

THEN ELIJAH PLANTED A JUICY KISS ON BRAZE LIPS AN BRAZE ENJOYED THAT SHIT!

(Braze mental commentary)  
Fuck.....I forgot how good it was to kiss him! He knows the exact spot on my lips an when he slowly pulled on my bottom one when he was done, lord Jesussss...

"I been wanting to do that to you for so long, I know I messed up, I was dumb as hell to mess up our good thing, but I'm changed, I'm sorry bout everything Braze, I just wanna kiss on you again, I missed touchin you in places that drive yo ass crazy (chuckles)....can we start over? Elijah pleaded

"Look Elijah it's been so long an I moved on...."

"I just wanna have you one more night, witcho sexy ass layin next to me...."

(Braze mental commentary)   
Damn lord, I tried but I just can't resist this man, Bryshere my boo now but, lemme at least get one for the road...

Then one thing led to another and then Braze an Elijah went back to Elijah's place and then they both were kissing each other so hard! Elijah tore Braze shirt off an pushed him onto the sofa and then Braze took off Elijah shirt and felt on his damn dark chocolate chest and Braze couldn't resist givin that pipe a lil kiss before he showed what his mouth could really do! Elijah was so pleased as he whispered dirty things in Braze ear an he made Braze bend over and then hearing Elijah deep moan while he was balls deep inside made Braze so excited he didn't want him to pull out, instead Elijah went DEEPER, practically poking Braze kidneys! Then Elijah grabbed Braze neck givin him a lil choke (Braze likes that rough shit) before he busted the biggest nut he probably ever did! An Braze felt love he never felt before as the juices flowed thru him, as Elijah sealed it with kisses on Braze highly sensitive neck an gave a lick which sent chills down Braze spine it made him tremble! The boys were done makin up for lost time and Braze laid his head on Elijah's chest, but then Braze woke up an saw it was like real late at night! As Elijah was sleeping Braze just threw his clothes on and went back to his place, and as he snuck in he thought the coast was clear, but......

"Nigga where you been!" Steven asked

"I was.....it was real busy at the office!" Braze lied

"Braze you get off at 4:30......an it's like 2 in the morning!" Steven lamented

"About Time Yo ass came back!" Princeton said

"Ugh What's all this damn noise!" Jonathan said

"Braze just now gettin in!" Steven said

"Well since we all awake imma get me a drink!" Said Princeton

"You guys something happened....." Braze was saying

"HOLD UP, HE GOT HICKEYS ON HIS NECK AN HIS SHIRT ON BACKWARDS YALL SEE THAT SHIT (gasps) YOU FUCKED BRYSHERE DIDNT YOU?" Jonathan shouted

"Well I fucked but it wasn't Bryshere tho......YALL ELIJAH IS BACK, HE MOVED TO ATLANTA AN WE SAW EACH OTHER IN THE PARK AN THEN I SAID I STILL LOVED HIM AN SHIT AN HE GOT ALL ROMANTIC AN OOOOH YALL....I was weak, I gave him my goodies an he blessed my boy pussy, an my neck, an my back!"

"......An He wobbled that tongue tween yo crack?" Princeton said

"Yesssssss! He even choked me a lil bit y'all know I liked that rough shit!"

"Ooooop this sounds nasty as fuck!!" Gimme all the details an was he any good?" Asked Jonathan

"Yo hoe ass would be askin that......BUT NIGGA YESS HIS DICK WAS SO GOOD I WANTED TO WRAP THAT THANG UP AN SAVE IT FOR LATER! Braze said

"Nigga, you doin it again! You running back to the dick when you swore you leave him alone an supposed to be moving on wit your life!" Steven said

"Look I was just givin him a remainder of what he was missing we aint back together can't no nigga compete with my head game! Nite!" Braze Said

Then Braze went back to his room where he was getting ready for bed when suddenly he got a text from Bryshere! Braze was so caught up in Elijah he almost forgot bout HIS CURRENT boyfriend and tried to make the best of both worlds.

(Braze Mental Commentary)   
Lord this is a first, I'm torn tween 2 fine ass boys! Like I feel like a dirty ass, loose booty hoe.....I wonder how Jonathan does it?

Princeton was in the school cafe when Luke sat next to him, Princeton was really crushing hard on Luke, he was just so gorgeous an had a sexy laugh, plus he really made Princeton feel comfortable every time they talked! Which was something Princeton never felt before.....an he didn't want it to stop! The boys decided to take a walk through campus an just talk to each other, even tho Princeton really wanted to hold Luke's hand but he knew he couldn't....

"So how you get into Georgia Tech you barely passing nigga (chuckles)?" Princeton asked

"I'm just lucky I guess, plus I cheat off the right smart ass (laughs) but nah this just one class I'm struggling in I'm Gucci in the rest, I mean what does algebra have to do with software design! How you come all the way down here?" Luke Asked

"Well I got a scholarship but I only did this to get away from my parents," Princeton Said

"Oh what you mean,"

"Well.....they kinda don't like the way I am, I'm gay, and I remember the first time I came out it was horrible me an my dad got into a big fight he almost hit me an my mom cried like a overly dramatic bitch, it was soooo hard and it hurt me so much emotionally cause I see my friends with their parents an they love them for who they are an I just wish I had that an then they make fun of me cause I'm dark as fuck an they make me feel so ugly ugh.....I hate them! Im sorry I'm so stupid unloading all this on you!" Princeton said

"No it's okay, you can tell me anything.....cmon our class bout to start I'll walk with you if you don't mind!" Luke said

(Princeton mental commentary)  
Damn, I don't a think a boy ever made me feel sooooo...comfortable with him, I never opened up to niggas like that annnnnd he wanna walk with me to class I think he crushing on me just as much as I'm crushing on him, I wanna ask him out but I don't know I don't wanna spoil the moment, might as well enjoy him while he all nice an shit before he becomes a fuckboy.....

PART 4

Steven was on his way to meet up with Algee at his studio, when he got there he saw there was nobody else there.....just them two! Steven walked in an saw Algee in this room fixin his camera with a tank top on showin off his big arms an that turned Steven on, and Steven didn't know what to expect but he kinda a thought in the back of his head....

(Steven mental commentary)   
Ooooh This nigga all buff an sexy an shit, ain't nobody else up in here I might make my move.....

"Awww cool you here already! Well we gon do some dope shit Im just gettin my camera turned on an the flowers all ready!" Algee Said

"Flowers?"

"Yeah I wanted to like bend the gender rule a lil but you know it's okay for men to like flowers an be creative!"

"Alright alright I'm feelin this, it's gets kinda boring doin all these masculine type shots sometimes I want to explore an be free with my gay side!" Steven said

"Well Ain't nothin wrong with gay I mean you do you, it's like a betrayal against yourself if you try to be somethin you not!" Algee Said

Then Steven went over to this garden type of scene and Algee told him to take his shirt off an not to be afraid of his body.......which Steven did gladly! Then Steven posed as if it was a vogue shoot, the dandelions an roses galore Steven felt so comfortable with Algee as he snapped pics! When it was done Algee took the photos to his editing room an Steven met with him as they were in this lil room all alone!

"Wow they came out so good!" Steven said

"Yeah man, I'mma genius!

Algee got up to go get something, while Steven looked around at the extensive photo collection.....then things happened!

"Damn you did all these?" Steven asked

"Yeah man, I see what others don't see in a person, so Steven tell me a bit about yourself like what makes you YOU!" Algee Said

"Like I said before I'm gay as fuck, it's just that I'm kinda more masculine I'm not too flamboyant like my besties but I love miss Beyonce! Whether it was my parents split up or my triflin exes her music really helped me through it and the way she's like so fuckin fabulous she inspired me to model an everybody said I wouldn't make it an that I was ugly but those bitches can go TO THE LEFT TO THE LEFT with that hatin ass shit!" Steven said

"Wow that's deep! You smell good what you got on?" Algee asked as he got closer to Steven

"It's my cologne I bought you like it, I sprayed a bit too much on my neck tho...."

"Nah it's sexy on you, it's drivin me crazy damn you smell so good....." Algee as he was all up on Steven

"Wait you like me?" Steven asked

"Look Imma be honest you like so sexy to me, not just your good ass looks but everything about you, the way you are, you give no fucks an I fuckin love that, I know it's kinda unprofessional to be all up on you like this but......" Algee was saying

"No, yo fine ass can do whatever.....you.....wanna do to me!" Steven said as he was feelin on Algee big arms

Then Algee took off his shirt and was pressed against Steven, kissin on his neck as Steven gripped his back cause the sensation was so great! Then Algee took Steven by his hand an they went to this part of the studio which had a bed an it went down! Algee laid Steven in the bed an his tongue flickered across Stevens navel which sent shockwaves across his body! Then Algee lifted Steven legs to the moon and kissed all on that plump booty of his buryin his face into it! Algee even used his thumb and stuck it inside which had Steven practically yellin! Then Algee eased his dick inside and as he did his thang he moved his hips shifting the dick around Stevens walls! Then Algee started breathing harder an harder as he busted his nut an laid on top of Steven!

(Steven Mental Commentary)  
Thank you Jesus.......this nigga banged the fuck outta me I think I'm pregnant!

"I wanna see you again, ain't nobody gotta know if you don't want to!" Algee Said

"No we can keep this tween us," Steven said

While Steven was gettin his walls demolished Meanwhile Braze was gettin it on with Bryshere, (trying to get the moment with Elijah out his head) They reached a point in Their relationship to make love, they had like a lil dinner at Bryshere place and then they started kissin on the couch, Braze took off Bryshere shirt couldn't help but touch that hard built chest!

"Damn babe your lips so juicy!" Braze said

"Yeah an I love suckin on yours!" Bryshere Said

"Lets go upstairs cuz I wanna suck on somethin else....."

"Before we do that I gotta tell you something, promise you won't get upset or dramatic," Bryshere Said

"Babe you can tell me anything!"

"Okay......I'm HIV positive!" Said Bryshere

"SAY WHAT NIGGA!!" Braze jumped up

"I got HIV an I thought you Said you won't overreact!" Bryshere Said

"Look I'm sorry but that's huge! How'd you get it?"

"Well I was kinda wild in my high school days I was fuckin girls an Boys an I always went in raw but this one night I wasn't so lucky and I raw dogged this fine ass nigga Who I knew from back in the day and then I went for a check up an the doctor said I had it....3 years positive an I take pills an when I dated I never got close to a guy where I wanted to go to that level but you different Braze, I love everything about you and the temptation to smash is sooo strong cause now the sex will actually mean something....." Bryshere Said

"Look I gotta go home......"

"Braze please......!"

"I'm not breaking up with you I just.....need some time to think." Braze said as he left

(Braze mental commentary)  
Damn, I thought he really was the one, ok God is your half ass way of tellin I should be with Elijah, cause I don't know if I can handle a man with a disease, ugh men are such dogs they're never careful, times like this I wish I didn't have feelings for boys so easily!

Braze went back to the townhouse where he was surprised to see Steven walk thru the door a few seconds after him and they kinda startled each other!

"Oh shit Steven it's you I thought you were Bryshere!"

"No why what were y'all doin?"

"Oh nothin, hold up why your pants unzipped?" Questioned Braze

"Oh that....I FUCKED MY PHOTOGRAPHER!" Steven shouted

"Oooop spill this tea!

"Well you see, he invited me personally to his like studio and we did like these beautiful ass shots with flowers and shit, and then I opened up to him bout how I like Beyonce and me being gay and then he sniffed that sexy shit I got from Victoria secret the other day and then bitchhhh he fucked the shit outta me!" Steven said

"Oh shit, Steven isn't he like your boss, nigga you a hoe!!" Braze said

"I ain't Jonathan....besides it's not like I was there lookin for hookup he came onto me!"

"Then why didn't you stop him?"

"Cuz he was fine as a muthafucka! Braze he was in a tank top you know niggas in tank tops make me quiver and he....stuck his thumb, like in my booty, boyyyyyy that was best 9 seconds of my fuckin life!!" Steven said

"Well that could've been me an Bryshere tonight but, he dropped a fuckin bomb on me, we like at his place gettin horny an shit an we bout to do it when suddenly this nigga tells me he got HIV!" Braze said

"HIV!!! How long he had it?"

"3 years, he said he was fuckin raw an wild back in the day but he told me I was different, I'm special and......ugh I don't know!"

"NIGGA GO GET YO MAN!" Steven shouted

"Look he got HIV I'm just uneasy right now, I'm going to bed!"

3 days later....

Jonathan and Keith have been talkin an texting back an forth an decided to finally go out on a date! Jonathan was so falling for Keith he made him smile hard as hell and Keith was EVERYTHING! The way he dressed, the way he talked, how he was so great to have conversations with and he was such a nerd...a really cute nerd! They went out to dinner at this trendy lil sushi joint and they were enjoying each other's company so much!

"This is nice, oooh sushi an steak an margaritas, you tryna get some!" Jonathan said

"(Laughs) nooo, I just thought it be a change from Burger King!"

"Well im full as fuck, I'm ready to go!"

"Hold up Lemme pay this thing first.....here you go my man!" Said Keith as he hands his card over

"Thank you!" Said the waiter

"Ugh I just like Lookin at you, I don't know why, I sound so weird (chuckles)" Keith said

"No it okay, to be honest I think you're super amazing like your whole entire existence does something to me!" Jonathan said

"You do something to me too....."

Then as the boys held each other's hand sharing a moment, the waiter came back with some bad news....

"Um sir you're cards been declined you have any other cards?"

"Declined? But yo I could've sworn....."

"It's ok I'll pay it!" Said Jonathan

Then Jonathan paid with cash (since he won a scratch off!) and both boys went back into the car, Jonathan drove to this spot near Stone Mountain where you could watch the stars, but Keith was really hurt by the restaurant thing and he was so unhappy!

"Babe what's wrong?"

"I'm not good enough for you, I don't have my own car, I take the bus, I work at a fuckin Target an tonight I couldn't even treat my date to sushi! Imma fuckin failure!" Keith lamented

"Don't say that! Keith you always pay, let me take care of it, it's only one bill! You already are the best boyfriend ever!" Jonathan shouted

"How, I want to take care of you like a real nigga suppose to an....it's a pride thing for me, I never had a bae before and I just didn't wanna seem like I ain't got my shit together!" Said Keith

"I don't care bout any of that stuff I just want you!" Jonathan said

"Wait what?"

"Keith you're so real! You're trying your hardest and that's not easy, look I just know you'll be great in whatever in life you do I believe in you nigga! I'm your number one fan! If you fall down I'll pick you up, if you need something anything I'll get it for you.....Cause I love you!!" Jonathan shouted as he said those 3 big words

(Jonathan's mental commentary)  
What the.....did I just say that! Oh my god I actually said that! Keith must be the one for me after all!

Then after Jonathan said that, Keith an him kissed under the stars, it was beautiful! Both boys were so in love that they went to this nearby hotel an stayed the night! Jonathan thought he was gonna break his rule of no dick for 3 months, but in that hotel room Keith didn't smash, instead they decided to just lay together, sharing an intimate moment. When the sun rose up in the morning Jonathan looked at Keith while he was sleeping, putting his head on Keith's strong chocolate body.....

(Jonathan's mental commentary)  
Even tho last night I was a lil tipsy, I meant everything I said to him, he could've taken advantage of me last night, but instead of some quick dick he gave me something else, he gave me.....love!

PART 5

Princeton and Luke were getting real close, Princeton found himself opening up an telling all his secrets to, and he loved how receptive Luke was, and Luke was hella fine! He knew how to dress, when he wore tight shirts his bulging chest would show and that turned Princeton on so much! But there was one thing Princeton couldn't come straight with, the fact he was so insecure within his skin color......Princeton always thought that he was ugly, he thought that he was too dark an some throughout his childhood an in his teens people would call him names, making fun of his skin an sometimes the ridicule was so bad that it made him cry! Even tho his close friends told him he was cute, Princeton self esteem was so low that he wished he was someone else. A few months ago he bought this skin-lightening cream and he just wanted to be lightskin, just like Braze an Jonathan, Steven was dark but not as dark as Princeton. Princeton kept this lightening cream a dark secret, he never even told the other guys, it was taking a toll on him emotionally and he decided to use the cream more than usual! Steven was using the bathroom when he opens this cabinet by mistake an suddenly.....

"Light bright skin cream, turn into the shade you desire, what the fuck, this a skin brightening cream, an Why is it in Princeton's side......oh damn, omg nooooo Why is he doing this to himself I gotta talk some sense into him!" Steven said

Then Princeton was about to leave the house on his way to school when Steven stops him in his track.....

"Um Princeton explain this light bright shit?"

"Nigga what you doin in my stuff!" Princeton Said as he snatched the cream out of Steven hand

"I opened yo cabinet by mistake but it's a good thing I did, Princeton, you don't like being black?" Steven asked

"No, I JUST HATE THAT IM SOOO FUCKIN DARK!! I FEEL SO UGLY, EVERYBODY MADE FUN OF ME EVEN MY PARENTS AN I DONT KNOW I JUST WANNA FEEL BEAUTIFUL....AN I DONT FEEL THAT WAY DARK AS BEEF JERKY!" Princeton shouted

"I didn't know, Princeton look at me, you are beautiful!! Yo dark skin is a blessing nigga own that shit! You're not ugly, nigga you are AMAZING an you just as fabulous as the rest of us! Please don't change that!" Steven pleaded

"I just want to be happy....I don't tell you guys any of this because I didn't wanna be like a burden or anything like that!" Princeton said

"Prince Your our friend, our bestie, you can tell us anything we here for you, we'll cry with you nigga we fuck wit you hard cause your real an different, we love you!!" Steven said as he started to shed a tear

(Princeton mental commentary)  
I just want to be happy, I want to feel good, damn God why you make me so fuckin ugly!!

Princeton then left to class, but all day he was thinking about the borderline mental abuse from his dad especially, and all the other people ridiculing him and the low self esteem was so prevalent that he had a depressed face all thru the day! Princeton went over to Luke's dorm it was like another study date but as Princeton went to the bathroom, he looked real hard at himself in the mirror and then the depression took its toll on him and Princeton locked himself in the room an cried!

"Prince you okay in there?" Luke asked

"(Crying) yeah I'm fine!" Princeton lies

"It sounds like you're crying what's wrong?" Luke asked

"I ain't shit that's what's wrong, (Crying) I.......hate being so ugly, I never had a boyfriend cause they all took one look at me and said they don't like dark niggas, (sniffling) I ain't their type an they don't want to be seen wit dark ugly niggas and.....and (Crying) I'm goin home I'll see you tommorow!" Cried Princeton

"No wait, I wanna talk to you for a bit!" Luke said

"(Sniffling) what is it!" Said a teary eyed Princeton

"I want to say that what ever nigga told you that is a dumb ass you have no idea how sexy you are to me, your personality, everything about you I love crazy!! I can hear the depression in your voice I was there once, I felt I was too dark and nobody liked me but I just encouraged myself whenever I could an I just want you to stop crying please! It hurts me soooo deep when I see you cry, I can't have my boyfriend depressed!" Luke said

(Princeton mental commentary)  
Wait did this nigga just call me his.....boyfriend?

"Say what?" Princeton asked as he was shocked

"Princeton I wanted you ever since I saw you in class, and then we clicked I just need you In my life, so please will you be my boyfreind? I know this kinda lame but......."

Then suddenly Princeton kissed the fuck outta Luke, Luke the realized that this was a special moment and he turned on "Babydoll" by Mariah Carey and they soon both took off their shirts! Luke was so damn sexy that Princeton felt on that chest and kissed it! Then Luke kissed on Princeton's neck and his back and Princeton was all his!! Princeton sucked the soul outta Luke and then when it came time to bottom, Princeton was kinda scared...."

"Damn this is so good but I never got dick before so go easy down there," Princeton Said

"Don't worry I'll be gentle, just close yo eyes an relax babe!" Luke Said

Then Luke went down and lifted Princeton legs, then after playing with his booty for a lil bit he slowly ate Princeton OUT, gently licking an flicking the tongue on the spot and Princeton starts to quiver......then wit a lil lube, Luke went inside Princeton and was slow an tame with his strokes, slow enough to lean over an kiss Princeton! Then Luke went a lil faster an harder Until finally he busted that nut and after the sex was over Princeton laid in Luke's arms!

(Princeton mental commentary)  
Damn....I never had sex like THAT in my entire life, dear God, thank you for finally giving me a boy that truly loves me!

Meanwhile Steven was at his modeling gig and Algee was still on his mind! Algee sexy ass kinda distracted Steven and they would meet up regularly at Algee studio for "personal shots" but really they just fuckin an Steven was enjoying every minute....an every inch, Algee had to offer! Steven went to go to the bathroom to get something but when he was walking down the hallway he saw Algee hugging an kissin a WOMAN and this lil girl callin him DADDY!

(Steven mental commentary)  
Oh hell no! Who this bitch he kissin up on, and did that lil girl call Algee Daddy......this nigga got some serious explaining to do!

Steven then got a text from Algee for their Thursday night "hook up" an Steven was reluctant but he needed answers so he decided to go anyway! Algee an Steven got in the bed and Algee was all up on Steven he was five minutes away from dicking him down, but Steven felt uneasy and confronted him...

"Damn bae, you know I like feelin on you an touchin you shit! Lemme kiss that neck......"

"Who is she?" Steven asked so suddenly

"Say what!" Said Algee as he stopped kissin an jumped up

"Who was that woman you kissed in the mouth today on the set, you know the same mouth that ate my booty 4 times a week!" Steven said

"Alright I'll tell you......that's my wife Shanice, and that's my daughter Allison, I'm bisexual I like being with you more than I liked her, even tho she my wife! But I connect with you more Steven and I can't show her that!" Algee Said

"When was you gonna tell me this! Was my boy pussy that tight it made you forget YOU HAD A WHOLE ASS WIFE AN KID!" Steven said

"Well I mean it's tight as fuck I ain't gon lie but, I'm just so into you nigga you don't understand.....look I'm working thru it, can we just get back to (kissing) you know...." Said Algee as he was gettin fresh

"I just don't feel right, I can't watch you kiss a girl then be all over my ass like this,

But then Algee nibbled on Stevens ear an and rubbed his Booty cheeks givin it a lil smack! Steven liked that shit and then once Algee put his hardness in Stevens hand, Steven felt himself get hard too an ooooh he couldn't resist!!

(Steven mental commentary)   
Dear god, why you make dick so hard to resist, I mean this nigga fine so I'm still gon get some while he givin it, but now that I know this wifey thing about him I really do feel kinda uneasy....

Braze was sitting outside sitting at this Starbucks enjoying his latte when he saw Elijah.....and some cute rican nigga on his arm, Braze wanted to approach him but he technically wasn't in a relationship with Elijah anymore, he just demolished his walls with that good "I missed you" sex! The two boys didn't notice Braze was sitting right there so Braze decided to call Elijah an tell him how he felt,

"Omg you are so wrong!! (Laughs)" said the boy Elijah was with

"Yeah I know it was funny as fuck, but not as funny as the time when (phone ringing) I'm sorry I'll be right back....listen order us two frappes

"(Answers phone) hey Elijah it's me Braze....."

"Oh hey, listen I'm kinda busy right now it's something important I gotta do!" Sayin Elijah as he told a half truth not realizing Braze was lookin right at him

"I know, I know listen I just....wanted to say that I'm sorry things didn't work out an I love you and I appreciate the dick i mean it's been a dry spell....but I think it's time we moved on, I found somebody and I'm learning from the mistakes I made with us an, I'm hoping he understands me," Said Braze

"I'm pretty sure he will, listen I still love you, I'm sorry it didn't work out with us, but listen I gotta go I'll um.....see you when I see you," Said Elijah as he hung up

"Bye baby....."

(Braze mental commentary)  
Damn I really messed up, I can't keep a fucking man! Im bout to buss out in tears seeing my Elijah all happy with this other dude, lemme get the fuck outta here......

Braze decided that now the fantasy with Elijah will never happen, he decided to go Bryshere to repair the thing he had with him!

"I didn't think you was comin back," Bryshere said as he saw Braze at his front door

"Look Bryshere I'm sorry about that other night, I was scared, I was totally inconsiderate to your situation and....I don't wanna loose you!" Braze said

"Babe come in here so we can talk.....(door closes) I'm not mad at you honest to god, I was hurt tho you walked out on me when I told you my most personal shit, when I'm bout to do it with a nigga or....a girl, I just stick it up in there buss my nut an only make this HIV shit worse, I don't think twice i just do it! But Braze I care for you, I care bout you so much that I actually warned what was up with me, cuz you special to me Braze an I don't wanna see you get in a fucked up situation all because of me I'll never forgive myself if I carelessly pass this on to you, I can't fight this by myself, I NEED MY BABY!" Bryshere said as he got emotional

"I'm right here babe,"

Then Bryshere an Braze kissed, they both wanted to seal the moment with sex but Braze was still reluctant till he got a condom and decided to take his chance! (Bryshere was sexy as fuck!) When Bryshere slid it in the rubber felt weird at first but after lots of rubber friendly Lube it felt sooooo good, almost better than Elijah! Then Braze an Bryshere decided to go get some ice cream together an hold hands, and Braze felt that love feeling again!

(Braze mental commentary)  
Damn I don't know if this is God's half ass way of saying Bryshere is the one for me, but I'm so happy with this boy he made me forget all about Elijah....Looks like my heart finally made up its mind!

PART 6

The boys been in Atlanta for like 2 months and Chile it was a whirlwind! Each of the guys had their heartstrings pulled and emotions played with all kinds of guys, but Steven knew his love wasn't pure since he was seeing a married man, and Braze's man had HIV! But it was the weekend and most of their boyfriends were busy or out of town, and the boys were pretty much sitting around the house so Princeton had an idea.....

"Y'all we should like have a boys day out, no boyfriends no stress no fights just leavin it allll behind!"

"Well Alright Mariah Carey, you know I was thinking bout this carnival I saw in the park downtown it's like pre pride thing or whatever, y'all we should go!" Steven said

"I'm down with that, but let's be FABULOUS, let's shows those other niggas how SNATCHED we are an put on our hottest look!" Said Princeton

"Well that leaves Braze out......he puts the B in Basic!" Jonathan said

"......it takes a basic bitch to know!" Braze said in a snappy comeback

"Oh my gawd Princeton (Laughs) nigga you watch too much drag race!" Steven boasted

"Damn you right I do....but cmon guys, WERE ALL WAITERS CUZ TONIGHT WE SERVIN LOOKS!" Said Princeton

The boys soon put on their most flashy fabulous clothes; they all stepped out and were the center of attention throughout the night! They went to this gay carnival in midtown where it was types of food and drinks an FINE ASS MEN!! There was this gay club across the street and it was poppin....and happy hour! So the boys decided to get a table an after the potent $1 drinks began to settle in they all started talkin bout the one thing they were tryna get away from.....THIER BOYFRIENDS!

"Omg y'all, I think my Keith really lovvvvvves me!" Jonathan said

"Oh really, how is he in the dick department?" A messy Steven asked

"I don't know, cause we didn't even do nothin! I TOLDS YALL IM STICKIN TO THIS 3 MONTH RULE!" Jonathan said

"Well damn, you wasn't playin bout that no dick thing, not even a quick suck! I'm actually impressed with you Jon like I didn't think you could turn off ya inner hoe but you did!" Braze said

"Damn I'm jealous of you bitch! My man won't go public with me cause HE TOO FUCKIN BUSY LOVIN HIS WIFE AN KIDS!" Steven shouted

"wife? kids? Steven you fuckin with a DL....BOY YOU IS A HOMEWRECKER!" Braze shouted

"Shut the Fuck up I ain't no homewrecker...I don't even know where he or his lil family lives I just suck soul outta him an oooooh he maybe a lil shortie but that dick like 6 fuckin feet who knows....." Said Steven as he had his 3rd drink

"Well At least your man clean, I can't even suck my man cause got he got fuckin HIV!" Braze said

"HIV!" They all shouted

"Braze are you itchin, IMMA FUCK THAT NIGGA UPPPP.....after I drink this rum!" Jonathan said

"Y'all hush I'm fine, HE THE ONE WITH THE TAINTED MEAT!" Braze said

"Well Luke ain't got none of these issues that nigga knows how to kiss an he a whole top, with my chocolate an his sexy chocolate we made some HOT fudge!!" Princeton Said

"Wait Prince, YOU GOT A NIGGA?" Steven asked

"Oh yeah y'all didn't know, this boy I'm seeing in my class I think he said he wanted me and he fucked the shit outta me like I never bottomed before but he used the right amount of lube an Omg I'm still feelin it that's why I cant sit straight (drunken laughter)!" Princeton Said

"Yesss Prince you had that good dick, welcome to the "we aint got no walls club"...."Jonathan said

The boys we're enjoying each other having a good time, when they got a table dance from the male dancers an Jonathan was so drunk his hoe phase came out for a bit and he wrapped his legs around this male dancer! The night was so much fun but they all were so drunk they were bout to pass out in a minute when Steven managed to get a Uber for them all and even the Uber driver was cute!

The next morning Steven went to work and he was having a major headache but Algee snuck up from behind and when nobody was lookin, he wrapped his arms around Steven and Steven liked that! But the thought of Algee with a woman an kid didn't sit well with Steven and although Algee knew how to please him, Steven knew it wasn't good for him....

"Hey Babe, witcho sexy ass!" Algee said as he kissed Steven

(Steven mental commentary)  
God this man makes me weak, but this just don't feel right, I gotta cut him off.....

"Hey Algee listen I got somethin on my mind...." Steven said

"I gotta tell you something too, I got a photo exhibit and I'm inviting you personally, since you are the love of my life....so when you finish imma meet up wit you at our hangout an you can thank me with that mouth!" said Algee

(Stevens Mental Commentary)  
Fuckk, cuttin this man off is harder than I thought, but he just called me the love of his life, he really serious about us!

Later on that day Jonathan and Keith were in the aquarium and they were having such a good time! Keith had to work late for a few days so Jonathan pretty much had to schedule time with him! But as caring an fine as Keith was Jon really didn't mind, Keith was so good to him, out of all the 4 guys it was wild card Jonathan that had the most decent relationship! But today was a special day, it was the end of the 3 months and after being with Keith for awhile, Jonathan was MORE than ready for sex! They got in the car with Jonathan tryna find other fun things to do but of course somethin always came up....

"This is fun bae, lookin at all these fishies and sharks an shit, but I gotta go get ready!" Keith said

"Well I was actually gonna wait but, Keith I love you, and Its been like 3 months and....."

"You want that dick!" Keith suddenly said with a smile

"(chuckle) damn you know me so well, look Keith the reason why I'm making a big deal over this cause before you I hadn't done it in like 4 months, THATS A LONG TIME FOR ME, but you're different there's something between us I feel it, when I laid my head on your really, really nice chest (sigh) that was love, I never like felt that before, I coulda sucked you in the Burger King Parking lot but I just knew it wouldn't feel right in my spirit!" said Jonathan as he spilled his guts out

"Come back home with me...." said Keith

"Dont you have to get ready for work tho?'

"Yeah but you can join me in the shower, watch each other get naked, nasty kisses as both get wet, put you up against the wall and well....you know the rest!" Keith said with a smirk gettin Jonathan all hot

"LETS GO!!" Jonathan said in excitement

Then they went to Keith's apartment, they only had 3 hours pretty much but they didn't care! Locked inside the bathroom, they undressed each other, Jonathan leaned over the sink showin his thick ass and Keith took off EVERYTHING! Jonathan felt that hardness rub up behind him as Keith began to lick on his back, it sent tingles down his spine, but it was just gettin started! Keith played some Ciara and ooooh the atmosphere was sexy, turnin on the shower, Keith got some soap and rubbed bubbles all over Jon's body, while kissin him all on his neck, Jonathan began to moan as Keith took control and put him up against the wall (again) and they sucked face for at least 5 minutes! Jonathan managed to put his hand down there an feel Keith MANY inches, and proceeded to give Keith the best head since he left Indy! The shower water kinda made it hard to tell if Keith bussed or not, but Keith started flinching an grippin on to the shower handle and thats when Jon knew his jaw was A1! After more sloppy kissin and chest rubbin it felt like it was 3 hours...but it was only 35 minutes! Once they finally got got out the shower, there was lotion, and Jonathan had fun with that!! But it was time for Keith to go, an even tho Jon's walls were still intact.......just feelin on Keith was enough to satisfy him, an when Jonathan dropped off Keith at work, he snuck in one more long kiss!

"damn...DAMN, babe you made me so happy!" Jonathan said

"But I didnt get a chance to really drill that shit!" said Keith

"Well I sucked you dry so that's good enough for me!"

"See you babe, and imma try to concentrate (laughs)" said Keith as he jumped out the car

(Jonathan's Mental Commentary)  
Thank you Jesus, but that pipe kinda big I dont know if it'll fit in my ooooh shit, IMMA NEED MORE OLIVE OIL...

Princeton an Luke were really getting serious, after Luke revealed his feelings and that awesome sex, they both enjoyed dating, and the fact Luke was so caring of Princeton and his inner issues made Prince fall more in love with him! They just have deep convos all night long but tonite they were Netflix an chilling (when they were supposed to be studying) an Princeton kinda had a frown on his face....

"Babe what's the matter?"

"My Dad texted me askin how was the girlfriend thing going, like I want to tell him so bad but he so homophobic, were your parents accepting?" asked Princeton

"My Mom was cool with it? but my dad, he really hates it, we stopped talking for 4 years, like it crushed him seeing his son, his only son crushing over Chris Brown than Beyonce, but he finally came around to it an realized this is who I am, and now I have a partner that really makes me happy, he's beautiful, he's smart, he's amazing, he everything to me!" Said Luke as him an Princeton kissed

"Oh shit!"

"What happened?"

"My parents comin into town and they don't know I'm dating you!" Princeton Said

"How about this, we can tell them about us, I mean cmon babe one of these days they gonna find out! And why not come out to them in public so that if your dad tries anything....there's witnesses (Laughs)" Luke said

"That's an idea, lets do it!"

"Great, but for the time being.....you thinkin what I'm thinkin Babe?" Luke said as started kissin on Princeton

"Yeah, I'm thinkin I need to go home an get ready," Princeton jumped up an Said

"Why whats happening!"

"My friend is like a model and he part of some award wining photo album or something like that and they're having like a presentation in front of ATL art royalty and he invited all of us, and he said I can bring a plus 1, you wanna come!" Princeton asked

"Hell yeah, get out the books for a lil bit!" Said Luke

The show was in like 3 hours, Steven invited all the boys an Braze brought Bryshere, Jonathan wanted to bring Keith but of course he had to work, Princeton brought Luke and Steven was backstage with Algee, but then Algee wife an daughter came in and that's when Steven felt like a home-wrecker! Then Algee wife came over to Steven

"Baby these are the models, Shawn, and my favorite Steven!"

"Hi, I'm Shanice, omg Algee told me so much about you!"

(Steven mental commentary)  
Does he tell you he likes eating my ass like Golden Corral!

"Baby me an Allison gonna sit outside, nice meeting you guys," Said Shanice

"Thanks baby, Yo Steve, I can I see you in the back for a minute," Algee Said as he pulled Steven to the side

"What you want nigga, and when you gon tell her about us!"

"That's the thing, I'm gonna divorce my wife and me an you gonna move in together, Steven I never felt this happy since like forever!" Algee Said

"Didn't you say the same thing on your wedding day to HER!"

"Look I know I been triflin but being with another man did something to me, Steven you're everything I ever wanted, I love you, now I found some cozy lil apartments in midtown, it's 1 room but nigga 1 bed is all we need....."

"I CANT DO THIS ANYMORE!" Steven shouted

"Baby......please don't do this, not now look imma get a divorce an...."

"AN WHAT, YOU TELLIN ME YOU WILLING TO LEAVE YOUR WIFE AN YOUR CHILD PLUS THAT BIG HOUSE IN DUNWOODY JUST TO SHACK UP WITH YO BOY TOY NIGGA IN SOME SMALL ASS APARTMENT ALL BECAUSE YOU CAN DECIDE TWEEN DICK AN PUSSY.....NO, I LET THIS GO ON FAR TOO FUCKIN LONG, Algee you a fine nigga but I can't ruin your family's life all cause of me, look Imma get thru tonight with you but after that, we can't see each other anymore." Steven said

"So it's like that huh?" Algee asked

"Yeah it's like that,"

Then the night went on, Steven sat down with his freinds, and he wasn't happy but he got his dignity back tho!

"Is that the married man you fuckin?" Braze asked

"I was, but we broke up tonight, I got my dignity back!" Said Steven

The night progressed, Algee showed off his photos and Steven was posing in all types of pictures and the audience began to clap in awe of the awesome, gender bending dope ass creativity! The night was bittersweet but at least it was almost over, Steven took one last Algee fine ass before they went separate ways for good.....The boys cane back to the house and talked about each other's fine ass men!

"Oooh Bryshere was cute as fuck Braze you did good!" Said Jonathan

"Yeah he's cute but Princeton man tho he was a sexy Hershey!" Said Steven

"Yeah he cute, and imma introduce him to my parents when they fly here Tuesday so y'all wish me luck, but lemme turn on this tv!" Said Princeton

"Man I wish my Keith was here!"

"Where is he?" Braze asked

"At Emory hospital......" Said Princeton

"SAY WHAT!" Jonathan shouted

"AS WE REPORT FROM THIS MARTA BUS STOP HERE IN FRONT OF THIS TARGET IN DECATUR, A MAN NAMED KEITH TOWERS WAS OFF WORK AN WALKED OUT AT AROUND 12:06 AM WHEN A ROBBER TRIED TO TAKE HIS PHONE AND ENDED UP PULLING OUT A GUN! PEOPLE NEARBY SAY THEY HEARD AT LEAST 5 SHOTS AND KEITH LIMPED BACK INTO THE STORE AN CALLED 911, WHILE THE ROBBER RAN OFF INTO THE NIGHT!" Said the reporter

"I GOTTA GO!" Jonathan said as jumped up and ran to his car, driving to the hospital where he will face the worst moment of his life......

PART 7

After hearing news that Keith was shot, Jonathan came into the hospital where Keith was, he ran inside freaked out of his mind! He didn't even think he was just worried as shit, but nurses calmed him down,

"SIR, SIR, WHERE ARE YOU RUNNING TOO!"

"KEITH, I NEED TO SEE HIM PLEASE!!!" Jonathan shouted

"Sir he's in ICU, We can't let anybody see him right now!

"Please he's my boyfriend, just let me see him, I need to know if he's okay!!" Pleaded Jonathan

The nurse eventually gave in an led Jonathan to the room Keith was in, an Jonathan saw Keith connected to a breathing tube, Jon wanted to hold him so bad but the doctor told him to sit outside and wait....hoping for some good news. Jonathan was so scared he couldn't sit still, soon the rest of the boys came into hospital trying to give Jonathan some support.

"Omg are you okay?" Steven asked

"I'm so scared, what if he don't make it, I CANT LOOSE HIM!"

"Don't worry Jon it'll be okay, here comes the doctor now...." Said Princeton

"WHAT HAPPENED, IS MY MAN GONNA BE ALRIGHT!" Jonathan said

"We lost him......"

Then Jonathan heart sunk, he couldn't believe the love of his life, the best boyfriend he ever had IS DEAD!

2 weeks later

(Jonathan's mental commentary)  
When Keith died I felt like a piece of me died, i know I was loose as hell before but Keith was really somebody I could see spending my life with, I wondered what type of husband he would've been, Well I guess I'll never find out....

It was the day of Keith's funeral and Jonathan was crying so hard, all the other boys tried to comfort him, but it wasn't really working and Jonathan was just depressed the whole day! Jonathan decided to stay inside for awhile he couldn't function, just everything about Keith would make him cry, till Braze came into his room an talked to Jonathan....

"Hey how you um feeling?" Braze asked

"Just....I'm just all over the place, I'm mad I'm sad I'm angry I'm depressed all at once, I really loved him Braze, I quit bein a ho and I thought he was my blessing I'm just confused!" Jonathan said

"Look Jonathan we may have had our run ins but I know how you feel, I lost somebody very special to me a friend of mine, I had a huge crush on him but I didn't want to say anything an risk hurting our friendship, we were so close and he was killed in a car accident on my birthday, I never got a chance to explain my feelings to him," Said Braze

"I'm sorry bout that, how did you deal with him being gone?"

"Well after a month of crying and sadness I just got tired of wallowing in the pain, I had to talk to somebody so I went to a therapist and he helped me a lot at least how to deal with the loss a whole lot easier," Said Braze

Then Jonathan got to thinking, Keith wouldn't want to see him all pitiful and crying his eyes out, so he decided that maybe therapy would be a good idea. Meanwhile Steven was dealing with a loss of his own, after that drama that went down with Algee an his double life he just gave up men, these boys just can't act right! Steven was on his phone when he was approached by this other boy who caught his eye....

"Hey um don't mean to bother but um where's the bathroom at?" Asked this guy

"It's over there down the hall, you new here?" Steven asked

"Yeah my name is Jacob and I'm like new here, I'm tryin to get my model game up you know! But right now I gotta pee!" Said Jacob as he ran to the bathroom but Steven liked what he saw....

(Stevens mental commentary)  
Damn he kinda cute, even tho I don't wanna be bothered by a man right now, but he got a nice ass tho, nah he might be a bottom like me, but if he at least a verse I might give him a chance....

When Jacob came back out Steven decided to have a lil convo with him, kinda get to know him!

"So um Jacob, are you like from here or you just transferred?"

"I'm here in Atlanta but only a month I'm goin back to New York that's where my agency is, but can I ask you something?

"Yeah go ahead!"

"You gay right....."

"Hell yeah! Why is that an issue?"

"No I'm gay myself I'm just asking cause I have a lil crush on you (chuckle)"

"I mean you seem like a nice guy....."

Then one thing led to another an suddenly.....the two men both ended up in Jacobs apartment, Steven an Jacob were in each other's arms and kissin each other crazy! It was insane attraction between them! Jacob was actually a top an he had such an amazing body Steven couldn't keep his hands off of him! Sliding in between Stevens legs while pressing up against him Jacob was drilling that shit giving Steven the fastest orgasm he ever had! Steven was gasping for air like a fish outta water, after Algee he never knew he could experience a such a wonderful (an messy) moment! They both laid in bed together just burned out from all the sex and they got to know each other more!

"Damn.....DAMN (breathes heavily) I never knew I could feel so good like that again!" Steven said

"What you mean again, you had an ex or something?" Jacob asked

"Yeah he gave me issues, he had a double life, a wife an kid, and I hated being in the midst of that, I felt like....a home wrecker, like I want a guy that will make me the center of attention, like can it kill some of these niggas to be genuine! Steven said

"Well I can tell you this, I'm not like that, you know the gay guys I met in New York they all wanted sex from me nothin more, that hurts a lot, I'm just tired of giving so much of myself an get nothin in return!"

"Look I don't want you to think I hook up with random guys I'm not like that!"

"I don't even know how we got here like you're cute as fuck and one minute we talkin then the next we under my covers humpin around!"

"Damn your cute....." Steven said distracted by Jacobs looks

"Look, Its obvious there's something between us, how bout we get dress and we go out for a drink," said Jacob

"I like that!"

(Steven mental Commentary)  
Damn, just look at that ass! I think he's legit, but a part of me is waiting for him to fuck up, or maybe I should just enjoy having a good man....

Meanwhile Princeton went to meet his parents at the college, they were there hoping to see Princeton with a girlfriend, but but they were in for a shock of their lives! Princeton knew his folks were not the supportive people in the world but they have to know, he needed to get this burden off of him, so Princeton proposed that they all go to this burger joint an have a lil dinner...but surprising his parents with Luke!

"So how you like ATL so far baby?" the mom asked

"Its great you know i'm enjoying school and my friends!"

"I always heard bout this city filled with gay shit but I never expected to see all these trannys an sissy boys an dykes, son are you sure you wanna stay here?" the dad asked

"Dad do you have to be so mean...."

"I can say whatever the hell I wanna say, i'm tellin you son you better not be alone wit some of these fags you might get turned out..."

(Princeton's mental commentary)  
God I hate him so much, oh shit I see Luke coming, there's no going back I just gotta keep it real with them...

"Hey Prince!" said Luke as he came in an sat next him

"Um son who is this," the mom asked

"Mom, daddy, this is Luke, um he's my boyfriend and I love him......PLEASE DONT DISOWN ME!"

Then it was silence for like a few minutes, Princetons dad didn't even say a word, he just got up and walked out, and it was just his mom an Luke,

"Why Prince....WHY, WHY DID YOU DO THIS TO ME!! YOU KNOW WE BARELY HAVE A FAMILY AS IS WHY YOU GO RUIN IT AN BEING WITH ANOTHER MAN!"

"Mom you don't understand...."

"I BLAME MYSELF, I BLAME GODDAMN MYSELF, I WAS PRAYING FOR YOUR WIFE GOD KNOWS I WAS PRAYING, BUT NOW YOU SOME MANS BITCH!"

"HOLD UP DONT TALK TO HIM LIKE THAT!" shouted Luke as he jumped up

"NO PLEASE DONT...."said Princeton

Then Princeton's mom cried all the way out the building, and everybody was looking an staring making it quite embarrassing! As soon as Luke an Princeton got into the car, Princeton was so depressed an sad, shaking in shock as his truth came out in a ugly way! Luke dropped him off at the townhouse and he hugged Prince, trying to cheer him up but it wasn't really working. The boys gathered around in the living room drinkin an talkin...

"So Braze did you manage to cheer Jonathan up? Steven asked

"I think I did, he says he goin to therapy so i'm rooting for him, god this is terrible I feel bad for all the times I called him a hoe!"

"Its alright just as long as you there for him, but bitchhhh, I got a new man!

"Steven who you seein?'

"His name is Jacob and I'm like damn he's cute, it started out as small talk then the next thing you know we smashin!"

"NOW YOU A HOE! (laughs) but do you like him?

"To be honest i'm not really thinking about catching feeling or a deep relationships but I think it maybe developing,"

"Wait now he ain't DL is he?"

"Nah he actually gay an only gay...and a whole top too oooooh he rough!"

"(Crying) hey you guys," Said a teary eyed Princeton

"Prince what happened!" Steven asked

"I told my parents about me an Luke, it was so bad you guys, I really do fuckin hate my parents!" Said Princeton

"Prince don't say that boo, they'll come around, and if they don't then fuck them boy you deserve happiness an you can't let anybody get in the way of that, I see how you are around him, you guys are made for each other!" Said Braze

"Thanks guys (sniffling) I just hate the way they look down on me am totally disregard my feelings just because I'm gay, it hurts!" Said Princeton

A little while later Princeton went to see Luke and Luke was just so happy to see him...

"Oh my god I'm so glad you're alright!"

"Yeah I'm okay...."

"Looks like you been cryin!

"I have, it hurts me so much and right now you're the only person I can really come to," Said Princeton

"I know this won't sound right, but you wanna stay with me tonight, I just wanna make you feel better babe, whatever I gotta do I'll do it!" Luke said

"Scoot over an make some room for me in bed," Said Princeton

"You wanna lay your head on me babe?"

"Aww thanks!"

Then Princeton laid his head on Luke's chest, an Luke wrapped his arm around Princeton kissing him on his forehead, this really made Princeton feel good,

"Luke, I love you....."

"I love you too,"

(Princeton's mental commentary)  
Lord thank you for giving me such a caring, thoughtful, beautiful man! God he so good to me, like I wanna lay in his arms forever! If he ever asked me to be his husband......I won't hesitate to say yes an maybe one day my parents will understand why I love him so much!

PART 8

Since Keith died Jonathan was sulking in the house, but he figured he couldn't do it forever, so Jonathan decided to get all dressed up an go to the gay club, slipping back into his old loose ways.....

"Where you goin?" Braze asked

"I'm goin out, have me a lil fun," Jonathan said

"So you okay bout um....you know

"Yeah im fine,"

"Cuz if you wanna talk...."

"I SAID IM FINE, Keith is gone he's never coming back so I gotta get on with my life, is that wrong?" Jonathan asked

"Nah I mean you do what you gotta do, but I'm just saying you can open up to me," Said Braze

"I'll see you later...." Said Jonathan as he left

Jonathan went to this club and oooh it was packed! It was happy hour and all types of guys were out and doin their thang, so Jonathan sat at this chair and ordered a drink, while showin off that ass of his tryna get a lil attention, and then this guy came over and he was FINE.....

(Jonathan mental commentary)  
Well damn, looks like tonight imma get my groove back, and I see a print.....oooh shit he comin my way!

"Hey sexy, can I buy you a drink?"

"Well it's like 3 bucks, but um you really cute!"

"Ha Thanks, I'm Darius, I was just passin thru the club and I saw that um....nice ass you got!"

"Thanks, I eat my Popeyes!

Darius was dark chocolate with those big arms that made Jonathan quiver! After a few drinks the two decided to go back to Darius place an when he took off his shirt it was like watching a strip show, and Jonathan saw the inches Darius was packin!

"See all this, This all for you!" Said Darius as he was showin off

"Oooooh shit, lemme get ready first baby and imma ride you like a BMX!" Said Jonathan

So Jonathan went into the bathroom and tried to freshen up, even douched, but then as he was doing somethin on his phone he saw this one pic of him an Keith and he stared at it really hard! Then emotions took over and Jonathan started shedding tears, he was running out the bathroom in tears leaving Darius confused!

"Bout Time you get out that bathroom, so you gon show me what that mouth do?

"I have to go (Crying) I'm so sorry!!" Said Jonathan as he ran outta there

When Jonathan came back to the house he was in tears, and Steven saw him as he came running thru the door,

"Omg Jon what happened?"

"(Crying) I miss him sooo much!!"

"Aw Jon I'm here for you!" Steven said as he hugged Jonathan

Jonathan was still feeling pain from the loss of Keith, and the love they shared was unforgettable, as much he tried to go back to his wild card ways, his conscious wouldn't let him! So the next day Jonathan decided to takes Braze advice an go to this therapist, as he was waiting for him Jonathan just looked out the window, thinkin of Keith an wishing he was still here,

(Jonathan Mental Commentary)  
I had people die around me but I wasn't really affected by it, but when it's somebody special, somebody I wanted to share my everything with, it's like a type of pain I can't explain, I just hope this therapist can help me with that an I ain't wasting my money talkin to some old ass bitch with a clipboard......

"Hi are you Jonathan?"

"Yes are you the therapist?"

"Yes Sir, sorry I'm kinda late I had to take care of something...."

And Jonathan saw this therapist, he was cute as hell!! He was young looking an chocolate, even tho Jonathans Heart was still reeling of Keith, he can still admire this man!

"What your name?" Jonathan asked

"My name is Woody, and I'm your therapist!"

"You look so young!

"Ha, yeah I get that a lot! I just graduated form Morehouse not too long ago I got my masters and now I got my own practice!" Woody said

"Well imma start, I'm from Indy, my parents are both divorced I'm gay, and back home I was very loose, (Laughs) I was with random niggas left an right and some were good, some sucked, but my friends call me a hoe." Said Jonathan

"Lemme ask, before you were all over the place, were you in a relationship?"

"......his name was Melvin, he cheated on me and after him I just wanted to have fun! I didn't care bout the relationship part anymore is that wrong?"

"Well it's kinda simple, you be with all these different guys because you're searching for a temporary happiness, you not risking a commitment cause you don't wanna get hurt again so you constantly switch it up," Said woody

"Well I stopped being a hoe (chuckle) and I did this 3 month virginity thing, and I met this guy named Keith and.......and," Said Jonathan as he was holding back tears

"What happened?"

"HE DIED, he was shot, and it was worst moment of my life, I wanted to die, that's how hurt I was, like why god why!! He was so good to me, he gave me more than just sex he gave me something I never had before....Love!"

"I'm sorry bout your boyfriend....You shared an intimate connection with him, it's okay to feel the way you do, love feels good, and it hurts just as bad. But as time goes on use this as a blueprint for what you want in another relationship. The thing is coping with the loss, he obviously meant a great deal to you, and he's lookin down on you, he's with you in spirit and right now you need to focus on you an not giving yourself away so quickly, cause that hurts inside more than you'll ever know...."

(Jonathan mental commentary)  
Okay I admit this therapy is working! But Woody kinda cute tho, oh god, am I crushing on him? Jonathan snap out of it!! Oh damn I just can't he's all buff an shit!

Meanwhile Braze an Bryshere were on a date, Braze was slowly falling in love with him, and despite the HIV thing Braze knew sex wasn't the only focus. Him an Bryshere were approaching 6 months together and they went to dinner when Bryshere proposed they do something together...

"You like this food babe?" Bryshere asked

"Yeah I do, but I'm just glad I'm with you tonight, happy six months bae!" Said Braze as he an Bryshere kissed

"Well I was thinkin to celebrate we go on like a little trip, like a nice spot in Miami Beach just us two!" Said Bryshere

"Oooooh that sounds so nice, when we goin?"

"I was thinking in a few days."

"Yesss I'll go!! I love you so much....I gotta go home an pack!" Said an excited Braze

An as Braze went back to his house in happiness, Bryshere had a ring in his pocket...he was bout to give Braze the surprise of his life! Meanwhile Princeton an Luke was goin strong, after that terrible thing at dinner with his parents Princeton just wanted to be with Luke an only him, but one day Luke decided to call Princeton over an talk to him bout something important...

"Hey Babe I came over as soon as I could what's wrong!"

"Prince, I love you more than anything, and it hurt me when your parents ambushed you like that! I was thinking we should move in together....."

"YES!" Princeton responded quickly

"You didn't even let me finish (Laughs)"

"I don't need to hear the rest, Luke you're the only person I have feelings for, I know this is love! You make me feel beautiful and I don't wanna be with anybody else Luke I wanna be with you, wherever you go!"

"Even if it's in California....."

"What you mean?"

"I got a internship and it's in San Fran, it starts in a few weeks so do you wanna go with me?"

"Do we get to sleep together every night?"

"You damn right babe, the atmosphere is very accepting and open so we can be gay in peace an no homophobic asshole parents!"

"Yes, yessss, yesss!" Princeton Said as he kissed Luke

Meanwhile Steven an Jacob were in Jacobs apartment chilling in bed together! Although Steven said he wasn't interested in a commitment type thing but the feelings were strong and after a few weeks of lovin Steven decided to tell something....and Jacob had something to tell too!

"Um Jake, you know we been kinda havin this chill an fuck type of thing...."

"Yeah What about it?"

"I love you, I feel so close to you like I don't know why this is happening but I think we should take this to another level!"

"Wow I was actually gonna tell you the same thing pretty much, but yeah I feel somethin between us! You know babe um I was thinkin when I told you I'll be here temporarily then I'm goin back to New York....

"You leavin me aren't you, I knew it!"

"I was gonna ask if you wanna come with me, New York is a place where models can do their thang and plus it'll give us more time to each other!"

"Omg New York is so far, but YES, babe I'll go with you!"

(Stevens mental commentary)  
Damn life change quick, first I was in love with Algee but he was DL and wasn't sincere, and just when I was about to give up on love, then here comes this man! I think he's the one for me.....

The boys got together at the town house, Steven decided to get some drinks and some sweets "just because" and they all pretty much had big news! But it also meant that each of the boys was gonna be goin separate ways!

"You know it's been a while since we had like this lil get together just us!" Jonathan said

"How you feelin Jon?" Prince asked

"Well....I realized that Keith is gone forever and I'm gonna have to deal with it, and the therapy is really helpin me out, but y'all my therapist is FINE ASF!"

"You still a lil hoe ain't you!" Braze said

"Nah I didn't suck him or nothin, but he's just great to talk to...."

"Well nigga he's a therapist (Laughs)" Said Steven

"Well yall I got news, Princeton is goin to San Fran!!"

"Wait, when this happen?" Steven asked

"Luke said he got a internship, and he wanted me to move in with him, AN I SAID YESSS!" Princeton Said

"Omg yesss get that dick!!! You an Luke pretty much belong together like I think he gon put a ring on it!" Steven said

"I think so, I love him sooo much!"

"Well im seeing this guy Jacob an ooooh he fine as hell! I told myself I wasn't gonna catch feelings but y'all....I'm in love with him!!"

"Awwww Steven, does he have a wife an kids?" Braze asked

"No an thats the best part! That's why I didn't wanna get serious cause I wanted to wait, see how he is an see if some shit might happen but....he's good to me, an he's goin back to New York, and I'm movin in with him!" Steven said

"Oh my gawwd you goin cross country too! Yesss bestie!" Well I got my bags packed cause, Bryshere is takin me to Miami!!"

"Oooooooh" all the other boys said

"I thought he had HIV.....?" Jonathan asked

"If yo nosey ass must know Yeah he still has it, but Bryshere is so damn cute, so what if he got a disease he can't get rid of he says his meds are makin it better and it's not just about the sex, I love him so much y'all, damn I'm in love again!

"I'm happy for you Braze!" Said Princeton

(Crying) you guys....." Steven said as he started breaking down in tears

"What's wrong Steven?" Braze asked

"I feel like we all splitting apart!"

"I know but boo, life moves on, and we got each other's numbers we can text an call each other whenever we can!" Said Princeton

Then the boys cane around and gave Steven a big hug! And Princeton, Braze an Steven had all their bags packed, they each finally found Love....true love, and after goin thru heartaches am pain from niggas, each would experience a happiness that would change their lives forever.....

PART 9: Steven's Happiness

It has been 3 months since the boys went separate ways and followed their hearts (except for Jonathan who was still in therapy) Steven an Jacob were enjoying life together in New York, Jacob was so supportive of Steven an his modeling career he set him up with his agency and Steven was on his way! He was modeling for designers and was in fashion week as well as other gigs which gave him some coin! Steven and Jacob were so busy with their lives that they barely had time for each other, but one night that was about to change! Steven got the call of his life from a clothing company in London and he was gone for about a week, and Jacob decided to surprise Steven once he came home....

(Steven mental commentary)  
Damn I'm glad to be home finally! I can't believe that I'm now imma international model, I still can't believe this is real sometimes, who would've thought that lil fling with Jacob would turn into me movin in with him! Living in Queens an shit. I miss my friends but we FaceTime every week pretty much, but I'm finally enjoying my life......

"Hey babe!" Said Jacob as he saw Steven come into the terminal

"Omg Jake I missed you so much!"

"I missed you Stevie,"

"I can't wait to get home cmon let's gooo!"

"Oh we ain't going home....."

"Where the hell we goin then?"

"Actually it's a surprise just trust me!" Said an excited Jacob

Then Steven got in the car, Jacob gave him blind folds an Steven initially didn't wanna put them on but since his eyes hurt from the long flight...and Jake keepin this thing such a secret he decided to wear them anyway! 2 hours an a nap later they approached the "surprise"....

"Okay you can take it off now!" Jacob said

"Bae, Where the fuck are we an why we in the woods!" Steven asked all confused

"I wanted to spend time with you and I didn't you wanna hear sirens an shit in the city so I gotta nice cabin in the woods where we can unwind an Do "other things" we hadn't done in awhile!"

"Ooooooh Baby, im ready!" Said a hot Steven

The cabin had a dinner table inside and candles lit, it was so romantic! Then Jacob got the food and wine and they had a lil intimate dinner together, Steven was so happy that he started to cry a lil bit...

"Babe what's wrong?" Jacob asked

"It's just that (Crying) I never had this before......after that whole mess with Algee I thought most niggas be the same triflin fuckboys but (Crying) you showed me that it's possible....it really is possible to find a nigga that has a heart an loves you for real an supports you, Jake I love you soooo much!" Cried Steven

"Damn babe I love you too, I just want you to know I'm not like that, I'll never be like that, listen even tho we fucked like 5 minutes after we met, I felt something! I knew you be the one I wanna spend my life with! And I wanna give you this....."

THEN JACOB TOOK OUT OF HIS POCKET THIS NICE SIZED RING!! STEVEN WAS REALLY CRYING HE WAS SO OVERWHELMED WITH JOY!!

"JAKE, OH MY GODDD WHAT IS THISS!!"

"Steven, Babe, I told you I wanna spend my life with you, we already share a bed, share a home, share my car (Laughs) now I wanna share my heart, mind an body with you, will you marry me?"

"FUCK YESSSSSS!!" Shouted Steven as he kissed Jacob

Then Jacob put the ring on Stevens finger, it fit perfectly! And Steven hugged an kissed him, he was so happy, true love does exist after all!

"Baby it's so pretty!!"

"Yeah it is, the ring can stay on but tonite, I want you out these clothes!"

"Wait what you got planned?"

"Follow me......."

Then Jacob took Steven by the hand and led him to the bathroom where there was this tub, filled with bubbles and hot water! They both got naked and got inside, Jake began to feel on Steven and Steven was enjoying it so much! He got on top kissing Jacob and then he began to ride him, letting Jacob rub soap on Stevens ass! Then they began to fuck in the water, Steven laid in the tub with water up to his chest, and lifted his legs up! Jacob went inside and Steven gasped as Jacob went deep, water was splashing everywhere.....as well Stevens juices! When Steven got out the tub drying himself off Jacob presses his lips on that booty and basically worshiping it, and Jacob had a long ass lizard tongue, reaching places up in Steven booty that Steven never thought existed! Steven began kissin Jake in the mouth while stroking his joystick and when Jacob felt he was about to buss, he grabbed Steven and after it happened, they both looked into each other's eyes! That night they both went to bed which was right in front of this fire place and as Steven laid on Jacobs chest he thought to himself.......

(Steven mental commentary)  
God, thank you for givin me him, I never thought I would be happy again but, just laying here with him I don't wanna ever let go! He's so much more than I dreamed of, I kept waiting for him to change, reveal he DL, cheat on me all that stuff but he never did, the best part is that he's focused on me, and when we kiss I feel something so strong it's like....I can't explain it, and if you can't explain the feeling, then it's meant to be.

Steven finally found his happily ever after...

PART 10: Braze's Happiness

Braze had a Wild year so far, he was torn between the feelings he had for his ex Elijah and trying to open up his heart to Bryshere. When Bryshere revealed he had HIV it scared the shit outta Braze! But overtime as Braze got closer to him he learned to overlook the whole HIV thing and accepted Bryshere for the fine ass boyfriend he is! And Bryshere did right by Braze, he was loyal, kind, caring and of course he knew how to put it down! They were in Miami for the weekend of love, it was raining hard which kept them from goin to the beach, but Braze used this moment to get some things off his chest.....

"Damn it's raining, well looks like we stuck in here till it passes, you want some of this pizza babe?" Bryshere asked

"No.....I WANT YOU!! Bry, I been such a terrible boyfriend, you opened up to me an told me your most personal situation and I ran away, I wrestled with the feelings I had for my ex but then I realized babe I love you soooo fuckin much! You mean everything to me, I'm sorry if I wasn't there by your side before.....i just can't take another heartbreak it hurts!" Braze said as he poured out his soul

"Thank you.....I know that had to be real hard but Braze you're wrong.....you like the best boyfriend I ever had! Yeah I was triflin an stupid back then, I was afraid of commitment, moments like this, so baby I should be the one saying sorry draggin all my dirt into this relationship, it's hard, I never thought I find anybody who would want to be with a nigga with HIV, but Braze I love you, more than anything!!" Said Bryshere

"I love you tooooo......!"

Then Braze and Bryshere gave each other a hug, and Braze wrapped his arms around Bryshere and his body, the smell of his cologne, the big arms and the tight tank top Bry had on, it was actually a turn on......

"You still wanna go out, I think the rain cleared up!" Said Bryshere

"Nah.....I want to do to you what I been wanting to do for a long time!"

Then Braze took off Bryshere tank top and was all over that nice chest of his! Braze kissed on Bryshere neck and after realizing what bout to happen.....Bryshere took control, he nibbled on Braze most sensitive parts and Braze was quivering at the tricks this boy could do wit his huge lips! Bryshere then slipped off Braze clothes and pressed his body on top, Braze sucking the pink off Bryshere lips, Bryshere managed to slip a finger inside Braze and he knew it was time! Bryshere took a condom and drilled Braze as If he'll never see him again! Braze felt the power of Bryshere in his guts, and he was moaning BEGGING Bryshere to slow down....but Bryshere went harder and it was so great both boys orgasmed at the same time!

"(Heavy breathing) I LOVE YOUUU......!" Mumbled Bryshere as he kissed Braze, both Laying there just lookin at each other

(Braze mental commentary)  
Damn......I never knew sex could feel so powerful, I felt that everywhere! God I was wrong to look down on this man, yeah I was scared and after hearing his faults I didn't know if I could commit to him, but after what just happened between the two of us, had I broken up with him I would've never experienced this love, I felt that shit, not just his dick pokin an drillin rippin me apart, but his heart! When he looked into my eyes after he "released"......I know he truly loves me!

Braze an Bryshere were really taking this trip in Miami to heart! Braze really forgot about Elijah and he didn't want to leave Bryshere, Braze also discovered how clingy he was, like me was never this attached to a man before but Bryshere had this effect on him....Braze was truly in love, and while they was in this restaurant Bryshere was about to take the love to another level!

"You know I had a dream the other night," Said Braze

"What you dream bout babe?" Bryshere asked all curious

"Well it was that we were on this hill or something an we were gettin married it was windy as shit and right before we bout to kiss this huge thing of dust flew in my face and it was so embarrassing, our tuxes were so dirty but you put this big ass rock on my finger, it was purple for some reason, and then Beyonce was singing at our wedding....sounds crazy huh!"

"Well yeah the hill and the dust storm an Beyonce (Laughs) really Babe, Beyonce!"

"I don't know it just a crazy dream I guess,"

"Well not all of it...." Bryshere Said

"What you mean?"

"Braze, I know I shoulda been upfront with you bout my past an everything else in the beginning, but I was scared, I didn't want to lose you! When I messed around back then I was crazy, I really didn't even know what I was looking for I was just horny to be honest, but then I met you and I swear on god you changed my fuckin life! And....."

THEN BRYSHERE TOOK OUT THIS CUTE LIL WEDDING BAND AN BRAZE WAS SPEECHLESS!

"Bryshere Oh my god!!"

"Now I know it ain't a huge purple rock like your dream but, babe I want you with me like every minute of the day, I want you to lay your head on my chest in the morning an tell me all your dreams, Braze will you....

"YESSSSSS!"

Then Braze an Bryshere kissed and the people in the restaurant were cheering as Braze started to cry a lil bit. Since they were in Miami they decided to get married at the courthouse, and although it wasn't a huge wedding like Braze dreamt about, just the fact that Bryshere was putting a ring on it was a dream come true! After they got hitched the married couple went back to the hotel where they slow danced had of course had more sex! And in the morning as they laid in bed together, Braze laid his head on Bryshere chest and told him the wild dreams he had! Braze did a group FaceTime with Steven an Princeton an Jonathan and they all congratulated each other while Steven showed off his rock too! It seemed like things were finally coming together......

PART 11: Princeton's Happiness

Princeton and Luke were going strong despite the fact Princeton's parents were still not speaking to him! It's been a month since that horrible moment and Luke decided the dorm was too small for them and it was time to move in together. Luke was offered an internship in San Fran but it fell thru an he took one in Atlanta instead! Which meant Princeton could still at least see Jonathan an Princeton didn't even give it a second thought, he went right back to the townhome and got his things, he saw Jonathan there all alone in his room,

"Hey what you doin in here?" Princeton asked

"I don't know, I was just about to go to therapy tonight, I see you got a box, you movin out too?" Jonathan asked

"Yeah, Luke wanted me to be with him, he wanted us to have our own place, omg Jonathan I feel so safe with him, I used to hate being so dark but he makes me feel beautiful and when my parents shut me out and basically disowned me, Luke was there! He held me and was treats me like a king...."

"Yeah I know the feeling......" Said a sad Jonathan

"Oh shit I'm so sorry, here I am gloating about my love and here you are in pain!"

"No it's okay.......I just miss him so much, I miss him so much Prince! I feel so alone, I try to look at other guys but I keep thinkin bout Keith and Therapy helps a lil bit but it's soooo hard!!" Said Jonathan

"I know it is, I know but listen, you have me you have Steven you have Braze, we all here for you! Even if we split apart!"

"I just wish it was me! I want yall's happiness!"

"It'll come Jon, just keep on the lookout you'll never know where your next soulmate will come from!

Then Jonathan took those words to heart, Princeton hugged Jon an decided to be with him before he went off to therapy! Princeton finally got all his stuff (even his air mattress) and moved in with Luke! The AC was broke, an both of them was hot so Luke took off his shirt and revealed that sexy chocolate body that made Princeton quiver, while Princeton was in nothing but a t-shirt and undies! Luke was feeling on Princeton's thighs and they was about to have some hot steamy sex when Princeton got a phone call....it was his MOTHER!

"Hello,"

"Prince honey, I just wanted to say I'm sorry, I didn't mean to push you away like that! Your my son, my only child, I don't want you to hate me, when you told us you were um....um

"Gay,"

"Yeah that, I thought it was literally the end of my world, baby I was praying for your wife an hoping for grandkids and live the life I hoped, but I realized now it's your life, I can agree or disagree bout your um..boyfriend, but I don't hate you, I never meant that honey, if I said something that hurts you I'm so sorry!" she said

"I forgive you mama, I just feel so bad like sometimes I wish I wasn't gay so I can make you guys proud and...."

"Baby don't worry bout me or your father, and I know we aren't the most accepting people in the world but don't hate yourself, as a mom that hurts me when you put yourself down, Does That man put a smile on your face?"

"Yeah Mom he does, every single day, I'm just so happy when I'm with him! I hope you guys understand this is how I genuinely feel," Said Princeton

"It'll take me some time but.....I do, love you son!" Said the mother as she was about to cry

Then as Princeton got off the phone he started crying a lil bit too, Luke saw him and thought something was wrong, but Princeton explained to him that his mother was slowly accepting him! An Princeton felt so good, he couldn't stop smiling an Luke was just glad to see his baby not crying or depressed for once! They went to the Stone Mountain and hiked to top and decided to have a lil picnic overlooking the whole city, and it was there that Luke had a lil surprise for Prince.

"This is so nice, thanks for taking me up here, to be honest I don't think I coulda moved to San Fran I like ATL!"

"Yeah I know, um babe I got a few things I wanna give you!" Said Luke as he got this bag of stuff

Luke pulled out this lil jewelry box and Princeton opened it, and inside was this beautiful gold necklace that had Princeton's an Luke's initials on it!

"Omg Baby this is the necklace I wanted! Thank you!!!"

"You welcome Babe, and I got something else for you, remember how were talkin bout gettin a dog?

"Yeah why....."

"Surprise!!" Said like as he pulled out this cute lil bulldog puppy

"OH MY GAWWWD! LUKE, HE SO FUCKIN CUTE THANK YOUUUU, IMMA TREAT HIM LIKE MY LIL BABY!"

"Speaking of babies......here you go!"

"Luke it's a rattler, Wait what's goin on?"

"I want us to have the perfect life, you, our puppy, our house, and now I was thinking bout adopting a baby, we can raise our own lil family together!

"I'm can't BELIVE this is fuckin happening right now! WERE GONNA BE DADDIES!"

Princeton felt so happy, that moment on the top of the mountain changed his life forever! A few weeks later Princeton an Luke adopted a lil baby girl named Lilly, and she was the cutest thing! Prince an Luke decided to not get married, they already knew they loved each other and plus Luke felt like they didn't need rings or a marriage license to signify the love, and Princeton was okay with that, since being with Luke was a gift in itself!

(Princeton's mental commentary)  
Wow, who would've thought I be here, with a puppy, a kid, and a partner! I used to think nobody wanted me, I thought I was too dark, I thought I was ugly, an my parents homophobia only added to the mix! God I was so ashamed of being myself that It was killing me inside....but then I met Luke and he's everything, I cherish everything about him, he makes me feel so important an I knew he was the one when we first laid eyes on each other! Waking up next to him, playing with our baby in the park and then givin him a big juicy kiss when we both graduated! Mom an Dad are slowly accepting and I even brought Lilly over to her grandma (can't believe I just said that) damn My life been a rollercoaster, but now that I'm ridin with Luke....I don't wanna get off!

PART 12: Jonathan's Happiness

While all the other boys in the group were each gettin the life an the men of their dreams, Jonathan was starting to feel a little left out.....on one hand he liked the fact that his friends were happy an they let him have this big townhouse all by himself, but at the end of the day it hits Jonathan that his friends have moved on with THIER lives an he is all alone with nobody to lay with or talk to! Jonathan still missed Keith like crazy but everyday gets easier, an Woody the therapist helped out a lot in terms of Jonathan being comfortable talking about it an his feelings! But there was a bit of an issue....Jonathan had the hots for Woody, but he didn't know how to tell him without feeling awkward. Woody was kinda sexy an since Jonathan told him all the inner feelings sayin things he never THOUGHT he would say not even to his Friends! He even took a lie detector test, so he knew Woody might be a potential but Jonathan didn't want to do it without some thinking first! An what better place to think then at Starbucks! Jonathan was gettin his frappe when he saw Woody sitting outside drinking his coffee, and he was about to leave, Jonathan had to make a decision....

"Hey woody wait up!"

"Jonathan, I didn't expect to see you here!"

"Yeah same, I just had some things on my mind an I needed my vanilla bean therapy (chuckles)"

"Well hey if you wanna talk or somethin bothering you I'm right here......"

"Actually there is a lil something, um Woody....I like you, now I know this is like unprofessional but I just felt like ever since Keith died I had this emptiness inside me and being with you really helped me feel better. Like I smile when I talk you an I can't remember the last time a man made me smile!" Jonathan said

"I'm really really flattered by that, listen I got so much shit to do, but how bout we have a lil session.....at my place, over dinner like 7:30!"

"Yeah I'll be there!" Said Jonathan as a big smile formed on his face

"Good I cant wait....." Said Woody as he walked away

(Jonathan mental commentary)  
Omg I did it, I'm actually gonna be at his place, alone with him! FUCK, I'm just too excited ugh....please god don't ruin this for me! It's so cold out here an I'm finally gettin Keith out my head, maybe I should bring protection just in case we drink a lil bit too much an he wanna drill me.......

It was the evening and Jonathan went to Woodys place which just so happened to be a few blocks away from the townhouse, and he was kinda nervous but he thought at least he'll get a free meal tho. When Woody answered the door he smiled an was really glad to see Jonathan, when he let him in, Jonathan saw this nice little table set up with wine an pasta, an it was really intimate....

"So how long you been in ATL?" Woody asked

"I been here like a year now, I moved with my 3 other besties Steven an Braze an Princeton we were like roommates, we had a lot of drama mostly with these niggas but they found happiness an they went on to their happy lives....(Crying)

"What's wrong why you crying?"

"WHEN WILL IT BE ME (Crying) Keith is gone, my friends are gone I feel like nobody loves me an I'm by myself!! Being all alone in that townhouse hearing Keith's voice in my head wishing he was there it's just (sniffling) it's hard, I just wish I had somebody....."

"Don't worry I'm right here!" Said Woody

"Thank you...." Said Jonathan as embraced Woody holding him

"You welcome, I just can't stand to see anybody cry like that!" Said Woody

"Um I know this sounds kinda strange, but can I stay here tonight, I just can't go home alone," Said a sad Jonathan

"No I don't mind at all, I gotta extra bedroom in the back,"

Then Jonathan fell asleep at Woodys place, this was the first time he ever slept over at a mans house without actually havin sex or anything! And Jonathan really didn't know what was happening but he knew this much.....Woody might have a thing for him! Jonathan wanted to ask him why he was being so nice, but Jonathan didn't want to jump to any conclusions so he let Woody do him right! It was the morning and Woody came into the room to see how Jonathan was doing,

"Hey sleepyhead (chuckle) you feeling better?" Woody asked

"I'm actually feelin a lot better, I'm sorry I broke down last night that was so embarrassing!"

"Nah don't be, you we're so emotionally distressed and it finally all came out. And I rather you crying with me than be at home all alone that's like a suicide risk, and I don't even wanna think bout that!

"Damn You really care bout me, are you this nice to all your people?

"Nah just one that I like a lot......imma let you in on a lil something, I kinda lied when I said I wanted to do a lil session, truth is I just wanted to be with you, I know I can't replace Keith an maybe I'm overstepping my bounds as a therapist but I just want to hold you an make everything alright!

Then after hearing that Jonathan laid his head on Woodys shoulder feeling on him and then as they looked into each other's eyes they kissed each other in the mouths and Woody was so passionate with his kiss, pretty much overtaking Jonathan as Woody got on top of him kissin all over his body! After they finished they laid next to each other watching the pouring rainfall, as Jonathan wrapped his arms around Woody smiling like he never smiled before! Woody then proposed something that would change Jonathan's life...

"I haven't felt this good in a long time, I wish we can do this everyday!" Jonathan said

"Well I think we can.....if you move in with me!" Woody said

"You want me to live with you?"

"Hell Yeah!! Jon I don't wanna see you sad an alone ever again, It hurt me so much when you cried I wanted to cry! I'm just trying to find the right words to say this but shit....I love you! I love you so much you're literally all I think about, when you broke down I didn't care bout nothin else just wanted you to be okay! Please Jonathan move in with me, share my life I have nobody, you're not the only one that feels lonely sometimes!

Then without giving it a second thought Jonathan moved in with Woody, and they formed a relationship which was somewhat like hubby an hubby but it was a partnership. Jonathan was so filled with happiness that he didn't think about telling the other boys! Jonathan an Woody never really married but while at the aquarium one day Woody did put a small ring on it an it put the biggest smile on Jonathan's face! After getting to really know each other Jon an Woody finally had relations, Woody was real good in bed! Jonathan hadn't been this pleased in a LONG time, and it felt real good to be a bottom again......one night while Jonathan an Woody went to a drive thru movie, Jonathan looked out the window into the sky and said an intimate thank you.

(Jonathan's mental commentary)  
Wow God You....you really outdid yourself with this one! When Keith died I thought I was losing myself but I was actually finding myself and In the process I met a man that cares so much bout me an actually shows me love that puts a smile on my face every minute of the day! Maybe one day we will actually get married but for now, I just want to enjoy the comfort of this man! I been on my two feet for 20 years, now it's refreshing to have somebody rub them, and suck on them too.....and lord, wherever in life Steven, Braze, Princeton are, I wish them all the best with their lives, and who knows maybe one day we can all get together again......

PART 13

3 Years Later....

It's been quite a journey for the 4 Boys! They been thru heartbreaks, fuckboys an exes but finally all their lives were was all comin together! Steven an Jacob were still happily married an living in New York, they thought about havin kids an actually tried to have one via surrogate but it suffered a miscarriage an for awhile it devastated them! But they healed emotionally and tried again an got a cute lil baby boy Steven Jr (it was actually Jacobs idea) an Steven was still doing his modeling thing! He went on the modeling competition show "Werk That Runway" an he was gettin some notoriety, he lost in the 4th round but he was a fav an it opened a lot of doors for his career! Braze an Bryshere have been goin strong in their marriage, they moved to Miami the same place where Bryshere proposed an been happy ever since! Braze don't even give the HIV thing any thought anymore an while Bryshere was still takin his pills, they continued to safely make love...an even with a rubber on Bryshere still put it down!! Braze didn't wanna have kids an chose instead to focus on his career, his curly hair was the talk of the Miami pride cookout and after tellin this secret batch of homemade products he uses Braze decided to turn it into like a hair conditioner business an called his product "Curlylicious" and using his fine ass hubby an some girls it became a hit an Braze was securing the bag!

Princeton an Luke were happily enjoying their partnership and their THREE kids! Lily, Tyra an a lil boy Tracey! After Princeton an Luke both finished their internships they got top careers in their fields but they moved from Atlanta ironically back to Princeton's hometown in Indy an another surprise....Princeton's parents were accepting of him! His mom already sorta did but his father was a piece if work, but after a while he accepted Princeton an Luke too, givin them both big hugs during an emotional reunion at the house. It was definitely a big change from that dramatic coming out at the restaurant a few years ago! Now Princeton wasn't apprehensive of bringing his kids to grandma an gramps! An even tho Luke an him never married they still loved each other every single day as if they just met! Princeton spoke to Jonathan a few times before the move but that was it really.....an speaking of Jonathan, he and Woody got married and they stayed in Atlanta living happily an every anniversary they went to an exotic place such as Paris or China or Japan! Keith was still on Jon's mind and the anniversary of his death would always make him sad an sometimes when he visits his gravesite Jonathan would cry. But Woody was right there an when Jonathan felt Woodys arms wrapped around him it was like he was holding Keith! But one other thing that Jonathan was missing was his besties! He hadn't talked to Steven or Braze or Princeton in years and each of them really wanted to see each other but life an careers (an kids) got in the way and they slowly forgot bout each other.

Jonathan's birthday was coming up soon and usually him an Woody would have a nice lil dinner and of course birthday sex....but Jonathan hasn't celebrated his birthday with his friends in forever and as he was on his laptop he was kinda sad.

""Babe what's wrong?" Woody asked

"I miss my friends, I wish there was a way I can get them down here so we can turn up but they busy as fuck with they lives an shit!"

"You got me tho....I always make your birthday special!" Said Woody as he kissed Jonathan

"I know you do babe, but I just wanna see my friends, I miss them!" Said Jonathan

"Why don't you call them?"

"They changed their numbers so many times like I don't even know, just forget it imma use the bathroom am then we can watch a movie or something...." Said a sad Jonathan

Woody saw how sad Jonathan was and he wished he could do something. But then he got an idea, Jonathan had a Instagram and Woody took his phone for a bit an he decided to search up Steven, Braze an Princeton's profiles, and sent them DMs talkin bout a birthday dinner for Jonathan and Woody didn't know if they would answer back but he decided to keep this a close secret anyway, but little did Jonathan know he was gonna get the surprise of his life!

Steven was on his way to do something when he got a message from somebody! It was a profile that he didn't really know bout so out of curiosity he looked at it and it was Jonathan! Steven was so happy as he spent the next 30 minutes Lookin at the profile and seeing the new man Jonathan was with!

"Hey baby what you smiling at?" Said Jacob as he walked in

"It's my bestie Jonathan, I hadn't seen him in so long and his birthday is comin up, I wanna go but Its in Atlanta an I have this thing coming up what do I do?

"Well I'll say this, you'll easily get more gigs, but you cant easily get another true friend......I say go for it!"

"And I can bring you an Lil Steven too! Bout time we got out of cold ass New York!" Said Steven

"So that's a yes?"

"Already put in the flight info!"

Meanwhile in Miami Braze was doing a lil meeting in this new building he was thinkin bout renting in the Aventura mall for Curlylicious! Bryshere was in the back when he saw Braze phone go off and it was a DM from Jonathan's IG profile!

"Hey Baby, ain't this one of your friends?"

"Oh shit it's Jonathan! I haven't seen his wild ass in years! I see he finally hopped on that therapists dick (Laughs) oh wow his birthday is next Saturday an he havin a dinner in ATL!"

"Well I got some business in ATL so I Think we should go!"

"Looks like it's a road trip, and oh yeah I know the perfect present!"

"What?"

"A goody box of my hair cream! His bird nest ass head so fucked up a seagull almost laid an egg in it! (Cackling)"

"Well alright, its a road trip then!"

Then in Indy, Princeton an Luke was a date at the movies when Princeton got the DM too, and he was like so shocked when he looked at Jonathan's profile!

"Babe the movie bout to start what you lookin at?" Luke asked

"It's my friend Jonathan he's having a birthday dinner in ATlanta and he invited us! Baby what do you think?"

"He's your friend, I say we ditch work, tell our bosses we sick as hell and need like 2 days, and then we bring the kids an go to Georgia!"

"Ooooh Okay! Wow I'm glad to see he doin better, he was like so sad and depressed when his boyfriend died and that's his therapist damn he is cute! Oooop the the movie bout to start, what should I reply yes or....."

"Hell yeah!" Said Luke

Jonathan's birthday....

Jonathan an Woody were gettin ready to go to this hot New Mexican restaurant near where they lived and Woody (cleverly turned off the notifications) checked on the Instagram messages hoping for the rest of the gang show up and Jonathan still didn't know, HE WAS BOUT TO GET THE BEST BIRTHDAY SURPRISE!

"Baby cheer up! Even if yo friends don't show we can still enjoy it together," Said Woody Lying ass

"Yeah I guess so! Maybe another day I'll see them!

When they got to the restaurant they sat outside and at first it was like 20 minutes, Woody didn't know if they would show. But then he noticed Steven walking in with his lil family!

"Hey babe I'll be right back...." Woody jumped up an Said

"Oh okay....."

"Hey Jonathan look who it is!!!"

"HEY JON BOO!!" Shouted Steven

"STEVENNNNN, OH MY GAWD I MISSED YOUUUU! How you been!"

"Happily married am I got a lil baby!"

"Awwwwww he sooo fuckin cute! Wow you really made it all superstar model I watched you on that show I was mad you lost!

"Yeah I know, but I'm really glad to see you happy tho, a couple years ago it was a whole ass different story!" Steven said

"Yeah but I got fine ass Woody over there!!"

"WAIT IS THAT BRAZE!!" OH SHIT!" Steven shouted

"HEY YALL! Longtime no see!"

"Omg bitchhhh how you been with Curlylicious!" Jonathan asked

"We doin good turnin NAPPY INTO HAPPY! An speaking of nappy here you go Jonathan happy birthday!" Said a shady Braze

"Nigga you not right (Laughs)" Steven said

"Well Bryshere has to stop by ATL....

"Oh where's he goin the center for disease control, I mean I'm just sayin.....mister 3 letters!" Said Jonathan

"Just like the 200 dicks you had imma let that slide cause it's your birthday but BITCH IM JUST HAPPY TO SEE YALL!" Braze Shouted as he hugged Jonathan an Steven

"SO I DONT GET NO LOVE.....?" Asked Princeton as he surprised them

"OMG PRINCE BABY WE MISSED YOU!" Steven said

"I missed y'all too! Well Princeton is now a fabulous Daddy"

"Those 3 kids are yours?" Braze asked

"Yeah that's Lily an Tyra an Tracey his bad ass (Laughs) but yeah I think I have the perfect life!"

"What bout your parents tho?" Braze asked

"Amazingly they accepted me an when me an Luke moved back to Indy we had like a reunion and my dad hugged us! Now we one big happy family and the kids love being with grandma!" Prince Said

"Wow I'm so happy for you buddy!" Steven said

"Thanks, y'all we really need to stick together!" Said Princeton

"Yes we're horrible friends, if it wasn't for ya DM Jonathan we would've never seen you!" Said Steven

"Wait I didn't send y'all a dm!" Said Jon

"Then who the fuck did?" asked Braze

"I have a confession to make......I used Jons profile an sent everybody the messages I knew y'all had IG profiles but I wanted to surprise my baby with a gift I can't get at Kay or Neimans, REAL ASS FRIENDS!" Said Woody

After Woody said that all the boys looked at each other and gave one another a hug! They were besties and that's something that couldn't be replaced! It was time for the cake cutting and after blowing out the candles Jonathan was officially 24! The boys were drinking when strangely the song "Count On Me" by Whitney an Cece came on the radio and it was the perfect song for the setting!

"Omg this is my favorite song!" Said Steven

"Lets get sing along y'all!" Said Princeton

Then all 4 boys got in like a group hug and started singing along! An Jacob took a picture for memories sake, and the boys made sure they followed each other online to keep in touch! And growing up together an goin thru heartbreaks, drama an all kinds of situations together, Steven...Braze....Princeton...and Jonathan realized that no matter what the hell happens, THEY WILL ALWAYS HAVE EACH OTHER!

THE END!

