

Live the life you were meant to live!

Mind Body

&

Spirited

By "uS" Project

BEYOND MEDITATION, DIETING AND

WORKOUTS

"Life Keys"

Published by WISDOM@work llc

Copyright 2016 by "uS"

Thank you for downloading this e-Book. You are welcome to share with your friends. This book may be reproduced, copied, and distributed for non-commercial purpose provided the book remains in its complete original form.

Table of Contents (TOC)

Title

Copyright

Introduction

Section 1: "Light" - "Discernment" - "What You Create" - "Alive or Asleep" - "There is a Plan for You" - "Follow Your Dreams" - "Believe or Not Believe" - "Where Are You?" - "You Are the Gift" - "Your Light Matters In the World" - "When You Learn Something In Life" - "You Choose Light or Dark" - "What You See Is You" - "Separation" - "Peace and Calm" - "Understanding" - "One" - "Searching For" - "Triggers" - "Light or Weeds" - "Helping You Along" - "Intentions" - "Finally Meet" - "Don't Plan" - "Seeing Life" - "Mind or Light"

Section 2: "Finding You" - "Start to Change" - "Mastered" - "Dim Light" - "Self-Discovery" - "Choices To Be Made" - "Allowing" - "Walk on By" - "Expand Yourself" - "More Layers" - "Get the Idea" - "Making Changes" - "Doors Opening" - "Observer" - "Don't Give Up" - "Get the Message" - "Action Step" - "Autopilot" - "What You Send Out" \- "Focus" - "Changing Back to Light" - "Steps in Life" - "Deeper Connection" - "It's Time" - "Success"

Section 3: "Inner Layers" - "Surrender" \- "Come Together" "Because You're Not a Taker" - "Moments You Allow Yourself To Be Free" - "From One Light To Another" \- "Gifts Are Waiting" - "Moving On" - "Be The Change" - "Life Stage" - "Wisdom" - "Full Circle" - "There Is a Purpose" - "Let the Words Pass Through" - "Speed Of Light" - "Let Them Be Them" - "Independence" - "The Glue" - "You and Yours" - "Unattached Is Easier" - "New Possibility" - "See What Your Light Can Do" - "Suffering" - "You're the Lottery Ticket" - "Explore" - "Playing the Fear Card"

Section 4: "Get Past the Surface" - "Coexist" - "Levels Of Negative" - "Doing and Being" - "Rebuild You" - "Checking Inward" - "The Wealth Is yours" - "More Signs" - "Life's Equation" - "The Good News Is You Will Learn It" - "You Make the Decisions" - "Don't Get Started" - "Skip Some Steps" - "Taking Care of Business" - "Enjoy" - "One Belief to Another" - "You Are to Evolve You" - "All Happening Now" - "All Beliefs Are True" - "Theme Park" - "What You Accept To Be True" - "Wisdom and Knowledge" - "Your Body Isn't As Hungry As You Think" - "Nature Is Healing" - "Full View"

Section 5: "Illusion or Truth" - "What Restricts the Flow?" - "It Begins Inward" - "Powerful Moments" - "All Relationships" - "More Options" - "Need To Be Open" - "Steps Towards Change Process" - "You" - "So Much More" - "Stand As Many" - "No Expectations" - "Eager To Change" - "Speak With Awareness" - "Listen" -"One Path" - "Only You Know What Makes You Smile" - "Path Of Unknown Direction" - "Moving Down the List" - "We Come Back To" - "Forgiving Is Our True Nature, Unforgiving Holds Us Back" - "Made With Light" - "Ends With You" - "Walk This Path" - "Manipulation Is a Disease"

Section 6: "You're the Ambassador" - "Find It Inward" - "Give To All" - "Different Levels Different Views" - "Tactics Used" - "Change Not Want" - "Begin Again" - "Equal Value" - "Whole Again" - "Process and Delete" - "We All Don't See the Same Thing" - "Beware" - "Be Calm In These Moments" - "Just a Heads-Up" - "We All Must Master This" - "These Methods Don't Work" - "A Thought To Consider" - "You Get It" - "It's a Never Ending Dark Path" - "Having Less Is More" - "Where We Are Headed" - "It's Showing You Something" - "It Will Spread" - "Change Your Viewpoint" - "It's Everywhere"

Section 7: "Be Still" - "It's Not Ok" - "Get Passed the Drama" - "Pass or Fail" - "Highs Are Easy the Lows Are More Challenging" - "We Can Stop This" - "Acceptance Is a Feeling Not an Idea" - "The Shortest Distance and the Most Overlooked" - "True Service" - "Look Inward To Stop the Energy From Rising" - "No Need To Defend" - "There Is a Difference" - "How Do You See It?" - "The Outside Becomes Less Important" - "Your Light Is the One To Follow" - "Searching Outward Is a Detour" - "Don't Let Fear Tell You Otherwise" - "It's All About You In the Void" - "Do You Help Sometimes, or All the Time" - "Filling In the Blanks Is the Same As Assuming" - "Time To Move On To the Next Chapter" - "This Is the Only Way To Change You" - "Rebirth Is Everyday You Wake Up" - "Kids Do It Right" - "Having Less Helps You"

Section 8: "An Opportunity To Be You" - "You Will Lose Interest" - "You Are a Lot More" - "Keep Going" - "We Are To Help Not Hurt Each Other" - "Be Free From Having To Own It" - "Nature Helps You Get There" - "Just Be You" - "Cooperation Unites Us" - "You Need To Be Awake" - "Idolizing Is Another Behavior To Change" - "Remember" - "Don't Be Tempted" - "A Society Divided" - "Being Rooted Is a Limitation" - "Sharing Some Wisdom" - "Your Talent Gets Understated By You" - "Appearances Can Be Deceiving" - "We Have Forgotten" - "Attachments Be It Emotions, Anything Physical, or Mental" - "All Kinds Of Gifts" - "Another Free Gift" - "What Are You Giving Your Energy To?" - "There Is Always More" - "By Now You Should Know the Difference Between Them"

Section 9: "Doors Will Open" - "Bait and Switch" - "Put Your Faith In You." - "There Is a Big Gap" - "Can't Hold Back, Time Is Up" - "Letting Go Of Control Is a Hard One for Most" - "History Will Repeat Itself Using Today's Methods" - "Your Dream or Someone Else's" - "This Is How Your Light Sees It and So Should You" - "This To Is Possible" - "Watch Out for This" - "One Is Phony, One Is Not" - "If you are asleep, this is a clever method ..." - "See the Wisdom, and Skip Some Steps" - "Trust and Pay Attention" - "Not All Way Showers Are At the Same Level" - "Try Not To Ask the Why Question" - "Attachments Be It Emotions, Anything Physical, or Mental" - "There Are No Exceptions" - "Light" - "Discernment" - "This Is the Test" - "Get Quiet and Reconnect" - "Time To Let Go" - "Don't Be Afraid To Change" - "Just So You Know"

Section 10: "Experiences May Differ" - "Stay True To Your Light" - "Letting go was not intended to be hard, or ..." - "Laughter Helps Ease The Pain" - "Step Into Your Light" - "Pay Attention To You On Your Journey" - "You Can Master This Idea" - "Don't Get Stuck" - "You Need To Recharge Yourself" - "Be Free of Possessions" - "You Can Walk Away" - "You Need To Focus Inward" - "You Can Change Perspectives" - "Can't Say This Enough" - "Look Inward Until You Find It" -"It's Easier To Change the Little Things" - "Practice, Practice, Practice!" - "Look For This"- "Step Out of Your Comfort Zone"- "There Are Different Types of Schools" - "Be Selective" - "The Doorway Is Inward" - "Allow All To Come Up" - "More Cleaning" - "If no changes are made pain and suffering will continue."

Section 11: "One Method To Get Control" \- "Understand the Difference" - "Don't Resist Go With the Flow" - "They Must Want It" - "Time Is Up" - "You Are Never Above Anyone" \- "Why Follow When You Already Are a Leader" - "Information Is Everywhere" - "Allow Yourself To Relax Into Nothing" - "They Always Start Small" - "Stay In Your Peace and Calm Space" - "Advantages Of Observing" - "Just Relax and Remember" - "Follow Your Light" - "Go Within and Listen"- "Don't Hold On"- "Don't Relive It Again" - "Information" - "To Be Free" - "Knowledge Gives You More Choices" - "Enough" - "Let Go Of Your Defensive Behavior" - "What a Gift" - "It All Gets Recorded" \- "It's Not Bad It's Good"

Section 12: "Eventually They Will Ware You Down" - "Fear Will Take You Over If You Don't Take Back Your Control" - "This To Is Possible If We Choose So" - "The Eyes Are a Doorway" - "Our Version Is Diluted Compared To Our Light's Version" - "Beware Of This" - "You Now Create On Purpose" - "Life Wisdom" - "These Will Help You Reconnect" - "The Now Is the Focus" - "Water is Very Important" - "This Is A Must" - "Most Will Take Small Steps" - "They Are Just the Messengers" - "Being Neutral Doesn't Mean You Can't Offer Assistance" - "We All Get To Choose" - "You Will Review All" - "This Is How You Know" - "Especially Inward Stay Calm and Keep Searching" - "Being Aware Is the Key" - "Strength comes from within you and shows up in many different ways." - "Never Let These Energies Make Your Choices" - "There Are All Kinds Of Habits" - "The energy is what you are joining not the words!" - "Many Types Of Pains In Life"

Section 13: "Learn To Feel Again" - "Both Are Present" - "There is no need to relive the whole event, just face the energy." - "The Change Occurs In Your Perception" - "Look For This When You Focus Inward" - "Inward Work That Must Be Done" - "Things Are Evolving Faster" - "You Are To Focus On You In All Situations" - "Try Not To Ask the Why Question" - "Give It To Yourself" - "Disappointment Can Only Exist If You Hold On To It" - "This Takes Patience" - "Why In Life You Have Highs and Lows" - "Each Can Only Change Themselves" - "Impressing Everyone Else Is a Detour" - "A Great Tool" - "You Are To Stop the Behavior Not Delay It" - "Getting Back On Track" - "It's All About the Energies You Use" - "These Behaviors Will Do A Lot Of Damage To You" - "You Are the Source" - "This is How We As a Whole Do It" - "Turning the Heat Up Is Needed To Help You Let Go" - "When You Unbusy Yourself ... - "The Information Will Come Quick"

Section 14: "To Help Change a Belief You Must Show It Exists" - "Things Will Come and Go" - "One Will Live Forever, One Will Not" - "Limits" - "Awareness" - "The Work Is Inward" - "Emotions" - "Answers To Your Questions" - "Energy" - "Your World" - "Answers Instantly" - "Powerless" - "Leap of Faith" - "Finally Meet" - "All That Is Good" - "Outside Versus Inside" - "Will Power" - "Transformation" - "Flashlight" - "Different Paths" - "In a Nutshell" - "Unconditional" - "Expose and Heal" - "Autopilot" - "Come Together"

Section 15: "Turn Your Light Up" - "What You Give Life To" - "Difficult Path" - "Share and Empower" - "Just the Guide" - "The Work That Must Be Done" - "Becomes Real" - "One In the Same" - "Must Be Equal To Be Truth" - "Sell Your Materials and Lighten the Load" - "Why? Because They Are No Longer Needed" - "Remember, Don't Follow the Money" - "Your Layers In Life" - "This Is Everywhere" - "Your view is different than your Light's view for you in life." - "Just Passing Through" - "Your Light Decides What Needs To Be Changed" - "Inequality Divides Us, Equality Unites Us" - "You Get To Choose the Method That Will Help You Change You" - "A Fragmented Self Is Waiting for You To Embrace It" - "Work Is Required, but You Can Do This" - "Your Light Knows When It's Time" - "Let It Unfold" - "A Message From the Forefathers" - "Remember, It Is the Understanding That You Seek"

Section 16: "We Have a History Of Destroying What We Do Not Understand" - "Look for Them" - "Remember, Greed Has No Shame" - "Our Forefathers Say To the Elected Ones" - "Your Awareness and Change Will Stop the Earthquakes" - "Societies Version Is an Illusion" - "Your Light Is Your Best Guide" - "Spend your time becoming the master not the parrot." - "Recruiting Others Is Not the Path Of Light" - "Welcome To the Game Of Life" - "Always Moving On To the Next Step" - "One Isolates You, One Unites You" - "Layers Means More Work for You" - "The First Step Is Just the Introduction" - "Ask and It Will Be Delivered" - "Both Sides Are Needed" - "Only Some Have Changed All" - "Vanity Has Power Over Many" - "One is a light path the other is a dark path." - "One who seeks change does not always stay with one who does not." - "This Does Not Empower You It Does The Opposite" - "Letting go on the outside leads you to letting go on the Inside." - "Loss Is a Teacher, Not the End" - "This Is A Lot More Fun" - "Curiosity Is Not To Be Feared"

Section 17: "What do they want from you?" - "What Stirs Within You When You Hear These Words?" - "Sometimes It Happens Fast" - "Stress for Example" - "There Are Many To Choose From" - "This Is Adding a Layer Of Avoidance" - "There Are Lower and Higher Energies To Use" - "Recap" - "There Are No Exceptions" - "Don't Attach Yourself To This" - "Choosing how you see things in life will be what you experience." - "They Are Still There" - "A Step At a Time" - "We fear what we don't understand, and/or draw to us what we fear." \- "When used like this Time is more important than people." - "Value All Beings, They Are What Is Important" \- "Sacrificing Is a Downward Spiral" - "Travel is part of your Light's plan to get you back on track." - "Your Light Doesn't Always Repeat the Answer" - "Certain tones or frequencies of sound will activate a vibration within you. - "Expanding Your Understanding Is the Key To Change" - "A Smile Lets Your Light Shine" - "Life Tip" - "The lesson will be learned to think otherwise is a mistake." - "This Means You Are Reconnecting"

Section 18: "Not a Light Idea" - "Only one is leading you out of the Rabbit Hole ..." - "The energies have shifted ..." - "This Is Not Strength It Is Destruction" - "Take a Look At You And See" - "Be Like the Master" - "Life Will Give You the Signs" - "Take a Look, and See What Do You Want From Others" - "Something I Have Learned, and Still Use" \- "Inward Is the Pot Of Gold" \- "More Than One Way It Can Be Used" - "One Of the Best Gifts" - "Share your gift with others." - "You Are the Cure" \- "Shine your Light inward on your darkness." - "Don't carry it with you, complete it and let go." - "You Can Tear It Down and Rebuild" - "Your True Nature Can Take It Away" - "Surface Changes Are Only an Illusion" \- "No Exceptions" - "Stand Up for Yourself" - "Integration Is the Path Of Light" - "What Do You Live and Share?" \- "We All Have the Gift Of Identifying What We Need To Fix"

Section 19: "There Is Always Support" - "This Stops the Flow" - "Take a Look At Your Reasons" - "Don't Miss the Opportunity To Change" - "This is the challenge in the low, and negative moments." - "Don't Let Your Mind Take You There" - "Do the work, keep going and trust it will show up." - "What Gets Stronger Is Resistance" - "Things Are Not Random In Life" \- "There Will Come a Time When You Just Know" - "Just a Reminder" - "Observe and Feel In These Moments" \- "Break the Cycle and Look Inward" \- "The outside was practice, inward is the real work to be done." - "Most Will Resist Awareness" - "They Show Up To Draw You In" \- "We Have Different View Points To Understand, and Master" - "This Is the Way Out"\- "If you don't believe, it means, it will not exist for you." - "These block the flow of your Light if you attach yourself to them." - "You Are Stuck, and Can't See It" \- "The Steps Get Better As You Move on" \- "Confidence is a feeling that comes from within you." - "All Must Be Open"

Contact Information

Introduction

The "uS" Project focus is on you and why it is so important for you to remember how great a being you truly are. In order to reacquaint with the true nature of which you need to be, one must peel away layer upon layer of accumulated outdated beliefs, rules, thoughts and behaviors that are blocking progress and preventing you from realizing your desires, dreams and success in life and relationships.

This wisdom for life is sustainable, simple and to the point for all ages to understand. "Mind, Body & Spirited," our newest publication, contains all five of our popular ebooks in one. It is an inspiring course in raising consciousness, understanding and knowingness. A mind-boggling 400+ insights that clear the way for love, joy, happiness and success to find you much quicker. This information is very important for you, the people around you, and all people experiencing the same journey as you from another perspective. Enjoy your journey; let it begin anew from this point forward.

Section 1

What follows are Tips for understanding why the life you desire and the life you find yourself experiencing are so far apart. To understand why things are happening to you is just as important as why thing are not.

Look over this material. Some messages will ring true to you immediately, others perhaps tomorrow or the next day. As you progress through these pages and apply this information, you will experience subtle transformations, heightened understanding and awareness. Review frequently, use bookmarks and enjoy.

To navigate thru what is coming our way, you will need to sharpen some tools we all have, but over time, have forgotten how to use and allowed to become rusty. The wisdom found in this ebook will help guide you.

"Light," the ultimate tool is your secret advantage and will be referred to frequently throughout the pages in this book. What is your Light? Your Light is your power; it is what you are searching for in life. Inward is where you will find it.

Discernment is a very important tool. In life you will need to know the difference between what your light says is truth, and what others say is truth. Which direction is right for you and which is not? Your light speaks to you in many ways, so you will need to pay attention and feel your way through. Do not let guilt, pity, habit, hopelessness, doubt, I cannot, I do not know, fear, be your guides and make your choices. Take a deep breath, calm yourself, wait, and look for the other choice. For us, fear, frustration and doubt were our guides and made our choices for too long. Now we know to face all these emotions and not let them take us over. Then your light can get through to you and guide you.

"What You Create"

Everything you attach yourself to such as; thoughts, beliefs, habits, routines, and what you focus on, is what creates your world and keeps you there. You need to look inward to see what you are about to create. The things you create will be real and come true. You can change it by letting go. To let go you will have to face and detach yourself from what causes you and others pain and suffering. Then replace it with what gives you more joy and happiness, your light.

"Alive or Asleep"

You can choose to be you and live as you were intended, or the plan society has, or what someone else wants for you. At some point in life you need to look and see whose plan you are following, and who you have become. We have found when you are the true you and live your plan it is fulfilling, independent, meaningful, awake, and expanding, feels like you are alive. The other options are the opposite.

"There is a Plan for You"

You know the outline and the details come later. Follow your plan!

"Follow Your Dreams"

It is the first step in believing in you.

"Believe or Not Believe"

When you follow your dreams, be ready to be tested a lot. Doubt, fear, worry, and people saying no will all show up. You will be worn down to your lowest point. This is the greatest test moment. All on purpose to see, do you really believe in yourself, or do you give up and go back? Always choose to believe in you at all test points. Once your Light knows you are on board, watch the magic happen.

"Where Are You?"

Pay attention to where your mind wants to take you, the past, future, or pain. It is all intended to keep you from this moment. Remember, no thoughts, no plans, just allow yourself to be in this moment, now you're living always new always different.

"You Are the Gift"

You have the talent of which you are the master. Your talent connects you to your Light. Your Light shines through your talent.

"Your Light Matters In the World"

When you shine your Light, you show the world what is possible, and you teach us what we need to change.

"When You Learn Something In Life ..."

When you learn something in life then you understand, and when you understand you can change. Every change moves you towards your light.

"You Choose Light or Dark"

Stop sharing and expanding the dark you; instead, share and expand the light you.

"What You See Is You"

Life is always showing you, "You". Such as a behavior, habit or belief. You may observe it from others or participate in it. Either way it comes to you it is something you do. Everything Dark you change, everything Light you keep.

"Separation"

The darkness separates us and defeats us one at a time.

"Peace and Calm"

When you have no thoughts or emotions, you are in your peace and calm space. Stay here as long as you can and enjoy the feeling. The longer you can stay here the stronger the energy becomes.

"Understanding"

Your light only wants to know and understand the dark path. It does not want you to become or be the dark.

"One"

All of us may seem to be separate and learning different things in life. Nevertheless, in the end we take all that we have learned and go back towards the light to become one again, knowing we were never separate we just forgot.

"Searching For"

All people really want is to be loved, accepted, and valued. We search outwardly for all only to find it does not last and has conditions attached. Your light says inward is where you will find all of this and more, all the time unconditionally and it is free.

"Triggers"

What is a trigger? It is a person, place, word, trauma, or object that you tell your mind to remember this moment; you will also attach a feeling with it. So, what is the point of the trigger? Your light is saying it's time to let go of this, so it will send someone in to pull the trigger to show you how you react and if you are still carrying that moment. Your light sees this as an opportunity to not react and let go. So, at that moment you have a choice, did I react the same or did I let go? Why does it keep coming around? It is a test to see if you really let go or if you are continuing to carry it and make it bigger. You will be tested until you have mastered it. How do I know if I have mastered it? When you have no reaction and it does not pull you back into that moment anymore. Then your light knows you are free. This will happen in every aspect of your life; work, family, relationships, belief; so being aware and knowing the point of the triggers is the key to change.

"Light or Weeds"

Your Light is your garden and everything that is good about you. Every good deed, spoken word, and thought; your Light is the energy behind all that is good. Anything else is a weed. Look at yourself and see what is growing in your garden? Do you stand in your Light or your weeds? You choose each moment every day your garden or the weeds.

"Helping You Along"

People mistake things that seem bad, such as losing your job or house, but it is just your Light saying it is time to move on, you need to be some place else. Remember, your Light knows you will not volunteer to let go, so sometimes it has to help you let go.

"Intentions"

Intentions are the why or reason behind what you are about to say or do. Always check the why before any action, if it is going to cause pain or suffering, your Light says don't do it and delete this behavior.

"Finally Meet ..."

When your Light, Body, Mind finally meet and come together to be one, then your inward work is done.

"Don't Plan"

When you do not plan anything, then you can take the opportunities that are in front of you and do not look back.

"Seeing Life"

When you can see the beauty in all things, now you are seeing life through your Light.

"Mind or Light"

We have noticed that when your mind gives you a solution its logical thinking, at the same time your Light will give you a different solution and it is creative thinking. Always follow the creative thinking, which is the magical ride.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 2

"Finding You"

The Darks greatest fear is you will find your Light!

"Start to Change"

You may lose some battles with yourself when you start changing your way of being. This is to be expected but do not let the battles defeat you.

"Mastered"

When you can stay in your peace and calm space no matter what the circumstances, you are your Light and have mastered thoughts and emotions.

"Dim Light"

Your Light dims every time you give up a part of you that is good. To get brighter you have to bring back what you gave up.

"Self-Discovery"

The first step in discovery is you notice other people's words and actions. Next step, denial that you do any of this. Next step, you look at yourself and realize you have similar words, actions and more. Next step you change; the key here is not to get stuck on any of the steps.

"Choices To Be Made"

It was never intended for you to suffer, it is your choice; you can continue or take the action and let go. Look at yourself to see where you are suffering.

"Allowing"

Sharing and allowing people's choices is the Light path. Forcing, controlling or demanding your way is the dark path. Be the Peaceful Warrior.

"Walk on By"

Now that you know what darkness feels like, when it crosses your path "Do not engage," Keep walking and do not look back!

"Expand Yourself"

Look to see where you limit yourself, such as, you will only be nice to certain people and no one else, you need to change this and expand it to include all people, animals, and nature. Remember your Light has no limitations.

"More Layers"

When you blame what you are feeling on someone or something else, you are doing a behavior that does not fix the problem it is just adding another layer. The Feeling is what you do not like and what needs to be fixed.

"Get the Idea"

Look for where we agree and not where we disagree. The Idea is what is important.

"Making Changes"

The more comfortable you are in life; you will make little or no changes. The more uncomfortable you are in life; you will make changes and make more progress moving towards your Light.

"Doors Opening"

When a different idea or perspective is given to you, it is a door opening for you. Try to leave the door open and when it is time, walk through it. This is your Lights way of sending you help for whatever situation you are faced with on your path, letting you know there is always more than one way to see and do life.

"Observer"

Your Light is observing everything you say and do in life. Now it is time for you to become the observer of you. Look and listen to everything going on inside and outside of you, then start changing everything that is not inline with your Light.

"Don't Give Up"

The only one who gives up on you is you. Everyone else is waiting to assist.

"Get the Message"

When you can look past the surface stuff and see the message in every situation, now you can see the magic in life.

"Action Step"

Your abundance is already here; you just have to get rid of your limitations and allow it to come to you. Talking about making the changes is not enough and saying I know is procrastinating. Take the next step of action and make the changes.

"Autopilot"

What is autopilot? It is words with no energy behind them. Such as, sometimes when people say Thank You. How do you change this habit? Focus and be there for the words, put your Light energy behind them and the energy will return to you. Autopilot is another habit that has to go.

"What You Send Out"

The energy you send out is what is important. Dark energy is a lower energy, and it drains you. Light energy is a higher energy, and it empowers you. Just know that your Light will only co-create with you when it is positive.

"Focus"

Your focus is your attention. If you want to know what intense focus feels like, then reverse the hand with which you normally write. This kind of focus is needed for when you create.

"Changing Back to Light"

The dark path offers you pain and suffering. The more you practice it the bigger it gets and it will take everything from you. The Light path offers you heaven on earth and never stops giving. The choice here is not hard; changing from dark to Light is the challenge.

"Steps in Life"

Each step you take in Life prepares you for the next step. Every step is only for a moment until the next one is shown to you. Never hesitate taking the next opportunity to change.

"Deeper Connection"

In order to solve certain situations in life that are so dark, you will need to come from a much wiser and deeper energy. The mind or ego is too shallow to handle an event of this nature.

"It's Time"

It is time to let go of who you think you are and become who you know you are.

"Success"

Your Light says success is shining your Light in every moment every day and everyone can achieve this. Everything else is an Illusion for success and only a few can achieve it.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 3

"Inner Layers"

The more you peel back the inner layers you will reconnect to your Light and will feel a positive energy. Try to hold on as long as you can. What happens next is your experience and yours alone.

"Surrender"

To us surrender means to give up, to your Light it means to let go. Your Lights example, surrender your control and expectations in life, and let the Light show you how magical life should be.

"Come Together"

The Light brings us together and when we stand as one there is no darkness that can survive.

"Because You're Not a Taker"

Do life as if you have it, not as I want it.

"Moments You Allow Yourself To Be Free"

Following what you enjoy in Life is one of the few moments you allow yourself to connect to your Light without resistance or limitations. That is why you hold on to these moments the most and is why you should continue.

"From One Light To Another"

My Light is the battery. The words here are the jumper cables to spark your Light, to bring you back on track to where you should be and live the life you were intended.

"Gifts Are Waiting"

You may not be perfect in this moment but do the Inside work and you will be.

"Moving On"

Turn the page on what was and move on to what is in front of you.

"Be The Change"

You are expecting changes but if you do not become the changes, nothing will change.

"Life Stage"

The stage has been set to give you an experience, one of which to master. It will repeat until you are in control of you and not the experience. If you are not sure what the topic is look back at your history for what repeats.

"Wisdom"

Every time you miss an opportunity to change, the next opportunity will be more Intense on Purpose to get your attention. It is best to start making the changes now instead of later.

"Full Circle"

Your Light says full circle means everything you start in life you must complete and make peace with along your path.

"There Is a Purpose"

Along your journey, you will acquire some tools that will be needed for another point in time. Everything you are doing in life is leading to something. Pay attention for when that moment shows up then you will need the tools you gathered.

"Let the Words Pass Through"

How do you let the words pass through you? Listen to a foreign language that you do not know and feel the words pass through. In addition, notice there are no thoughts or emotions. Now you can use this same experience with the language you do know.

"Speed Of Light"

To your Light any limitations and lower energies are kryptonite. Higher energies and the present moment are needed to keep up with your light.

"Let Them Be Them"

There is no right or wrong, there just "Is"; which means, there are many ways of doing the same things in life. One-way vs. another, do not make it matter let them be them.

"Independence"

Being independent means, you are in control of you; and being dependent means, others are in control of you. Only one of these is free.

"The Glue"

What do you hold on to when you have nothing left in life on the outside? For us, it is each other and an inward feeling unlike any other. When you are living moment by moment, this is the glue that keeps things together.

"You and Yours"

You are not supposed to blend in and be like others. You and your Light are intended to stand out. Then together share your wisdom and talent for others to see the beauty and perfection that you bring to "Be".

"Unattached Is Easier"

Remember we are just passing through, everything you see and have are only for a moment, and so being unattached is the way to be. Do not attach yourself and let them become You.

"New Possibility"

If you are heading in the wrong direction in Life and your Light cannot get your attention, life will give you a time-out. Within these moments, you will be shown another possible direction. When the time-out is over, you must choose your direction. Uncertainty will show up, put it aside and take what was shown and you will have an adventure unlike any other.

"See What Your Light Can Do"

Eliminate the middleman and your Light can bring everything to you.

"Suffering"

If someone hurts you and then your action hurts them back, your Light says the behaviors are one and the same. Dark behavior is dark no matter from what side you sling it. Everyone will suffer.

"You're the Lottery Ticket"

Remember you are the wealth, your imagination and creativity is invaluable. Letting them go is like losing the winning lottery ticket.

"Explore"

Open the door to what is going on inward. Exploring here is just as fulfilling, the feeling and surprises are beyond your outward experience.

"Playing the Fear Card"

On your journey fear will be used a lot to get you to say and do things for others so they can have deniability, get your business, pass laws, the list is long and never ending. As soon as you notice this tactic, it is a huge sign telling you not to follow and do what is asked.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 4

"Get Past the Surface"

When you can look past the surface of things and the masks people wear, your decision making is far wiser.

"Coexist"

All forms of life matter; one without the other is a loss beyond measure and has a ripple effect on the fabric of life. Coexisting is the answer.

"Levels Of Negative"

There are different levels of negative: extreme, medium, mild and silent. The most obvious are the ones we can see and hear, others that are not, the silent ones. The layer of silent is energies and or thoughts that are only inward. You can feel them but do not speak them. These to have to be processed and let go of, and when you become neutral in all levels, then you are done.

"Doing and Being"

Living life as doing, is chasing the feelings that come and go. Living life as being, is having the feelings that come and stay. The difference in these two paths, one is inward, and the other is outward, and you can choose which one to take or do both. Just know both exist.

"Rebuild You"

The fast track to finding yourself is to let go of everything and travel. Everything about you will show up and how you handle you are key. Clarity will be one of the first to show up among others to help as you rebuild You. Time and patience are needed on this path; when you are done, your viewpoint will be different.

"Checking Inward"

If you ask a question and are checking inward for the answer but get no response, depending on the question this could mean: (1.) No answer (2.) Does not matter what you choose. (3.) It is a lesson and the choice to be made is a change in your way of life, you must choose on your own.

"The Wealth Is yours"

You are to make yourself wealthy not others.

"More Signs"

If you have to give yourself a reason for what you are about to do, then it is a clear sign not to do it.

"Life's Equation"

Thought + Energy (a.k.a. emotions) \+ Belief + Intentions = Your Life Experience, you get to choose what to put in each step, choose wisely. Remember you can change at anytime.

"The Good News Is You Will Learn It"

How each chooses to see life is the path they shall walk. The more difficult perspective you choose will give you understanding to the topic you desire faster, but the level of intensity is underestimated by most on this fast track. In addition, all the variables can never be accounted for should you think you can.

"You Make the Decisions"

Know you always have a choice, do not just follow. It is important for You to choose, not others.

"Don't Get Started"

Society teaches us to compete and challenge. At first, it is seemingly harmless games. However, once you allow this behavior into your life, it will spread to other areas and take on a whole new life of destruction.

"Skip Some Steps"

We have noticed that life is moving you to look and Be inward. It is been a gradual process, but none-the-less this is the direction. Start now and skip a few steps; you are ready.

"Taking Care of Business"

Your To-Do List and your Lights To-Do List are different. You can be sure both lists will be looked at, willingly or unwillingly, it does not matter.

"Enjoy"

Your Light wants you to enjoy every moment especially the ones happening right now. Why, because how you behave today will also be your tomorrow.

"One Belief to Another"

The moment you stopped believing in "You" was when you started believing what others said. See how you went from one belief to another just like that, then everything changed in that moment.

"You Are to Evolve You"

Evolving you is going from one way of being to another. Letting go of old beliefs, thoughts, habits, emotions and incorporating new ones is your evolution.

"All Happening Now"

Your day will show you the past of what was, present what is, and the future what is waiting. Most will miss the present and future signs, go directly to past and do it in the present.

"All Beliefs Are True"

What you believe to be true will be true. Therefore, that means what others believe, and if it differs from yours, will also be true. Life is about what you believe; therefore, all is true.

"Theme Park"

The outward life is a theme park; the rides are endless and will have their way with you if you do not get off. Remember you can just observe the rides from a distance and still learn. This does not mean not to go on any rides it means choose wisely.

"What You Accept To Be True"

Because you are living in pain, the door is not open to the "Idea" of living life without pain. Therefore, you will live life to the end in pain. There is a choice here, understand life is about what idea you believe In and accept to be true.

"Wisdom and Knowledge"

When you make a choice, it will be based on your wisdom and knowledge at that moment. When you expand your wisdom and knowledge, your choices will be different in that moment. Expanding your wisdom and knowledge is the key.

"Your Body Isn't As Hungry As You Think"

Try asking your body what it wants to eat instead of your taste buds or habits making your choices for you.

"Nature Is Healing"

Go and stay in nature as often as you can, it is the most healing place to be in so many ways and levels. Magic happens if you can just "Be".

"Full View"

Outward is just a partial view you must include the Inward to have the full picture.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 5

"Illusion or Truth"

Eye candy and true beauty are not the same. One is an Illusion the other is truth.

"What Restricts the Flow?"

Everything in life has energy flow. What restricts the flow is decided by you in the form of: "I can't have," "Not for me," "I'm not worthy," "It will never happen," and "I don't believe," also known as limitations. Eliminate these Ideas and the flow returns.

"It Begins Inward"

Most are so busy on the outside, they miss what is going on inside. Inward is where it all begins and is created, outward is just the result.

"Powerful Moments"

The morning sunrise and the evening sunset are very powerful energy moments. Try to be there for these time frames and just "Be".

"All Relationships"

You must look at all your relationships in life not just the ones with people. Such as, what kind of relationship you have with food, money, yourself, nature, animals, words, to name a few. Whatever the topic that troubles you, You must make peace.

"More Options"

We are taught to "Go Get", your Light says, "Bring it to you", is also available.

"Need To Be Open"

When one way of being no longer serves you another way will always present itself to you. Being open is key when you are moving on to all the steps that will come on your path.

"Steps Towards Change Process"

Steps Towards Change: (1.) Not open to any different idea. (2.) Now open to different ideas but fear and uncertainty shows up and holds you back. (3.) The talk step, you like the new Ideas so you talk and talk, but cannot go to the next step. (4.) The action step, you finally walk-the-talk. All these steps equal change in your life; because we didn't know these steps it took us many lifetimes to make any changes. Now that you are aware you can process the steps towards change faster, just do not get stuck on any step.

"You"

How you handle and value you are what is important, everything else is practice.

"So Much More"

Society wants us to stay within the lines to live our life. When the truth is we are so much more and the lines are holding us back from what life can be. Every day, I see so many people with so much talent not being used because they stay within the lines and keep their talent a dream, with only a thought of someday crossing over the lines. For most, that someday never comes, or they stay in the closest.

"Stand As Many"

You will stand as one when you unite all of your lifetimes that got you to this moment.

"No Expectations"

Having expectations is a crapshoot. Instead, let life surprise you the odds are better.

"Eager To Change"

When you are shown a part of you that needs to be fixed, you should be eager to change instead of eager to defend.

"Speak With Awareness"

The words wish for, someday, in the future, means to your Light, don't bring it to me now I'm not ready. Speak with awareness and change your world.

"Listen"

Listening is an art that is not practiced by many, masters listen students talk.

"One Path"

Everything positive you do in life is ascending you. Everything negative you do in life is descending You. You must live to change and walk one path.

"Only You Know What Makes You Smile"

Find your natural happy not the chemical one. There is a huge difference; one you can sustain and keep the other will end in tragedy and loss.

"Path Of Unknown Direction"

When you let go of controlling your life and follow the unknown; patience, faith, calmness and awareness are required when you walk this path.

"Moving Down the List"

In society what is valued more, all beings of life or money? If all beings is not number one, then greed is in control. Just know the more devalued you become the easier it is to continue to "Take From", "Control" and or "Eliminate" the least valued so that the most valued, greed, can survive.

"We Come Back To"

Believing in the unknown and trusting there is more to life, are what we all come back to.

"Forgiving Is Our True Nature, Unforgiving Holds Us Back"

We are not supposed to carry or keep pain and suffering, we are to let it all go. Forgiving will help you do it. Use it generously, it is not something someone can do for you, you must do it for yourself, no permission is needed to use it. Why do this? Pain and suffering is a lower energy and destroys you and others. Clean this out and a higher energy takes it place should you choose.

"Made With Light"

Anything handmade and co-created with your Light is far better than the other methods that have neither. Remember this wisdom when you buy or consume.

"Ends With You"

"Don't let fear tell you otherwise!"

"Walk This Path"

If your view point for solutions in life are, everybody wins, you walk the path of Light.

"Manipulation Is a Disease"

Example, the new word for tax increase is fees. The words are different but the idea Is same. One phrase is not accepted the other is now accepted; a form of manipulation, indeed! Always look at the end result to know the truth of what just took place.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 6

"You're the Ambassador"

Remember, you are a spark from your Light and the ambassador to this space and time. The question here is, are you representing your Light or the dark in every moment for all beings, or just sometimes and only to some.

"Find It Inward"

If you want the feelings of love, joy and happiness, go inward, not outward to find it.

"Give To All"

Kindness and compassion are gifts that keep on giving, so be generous!

"Different Levels Different Views"

What was important when you have everything is no longer important when you have nothing.

"Tactics Used"

Anyone who uses manipulation of any kind as a tactic is not working for the greater good, but instead working for a few or self serving and are not to be trusted or be in a position of power. You may encounter this behavior on your path so beware.

"Change Not Want"

Most live to want, not many live to change; change is on your Lights to do list.

"Begin Again"

"Don't let fear tell you otherwise!"

"Equal Value"

We are to value all not devalue by any method and accept it as so. To say one job or being is more valued than another is a devalued system. Equal value is the path of Light.

"Whole Again"

We started as a whole then an idea to divide and separate us was introduced and allowed. Which then opened the door to many more layers of separation and brought us to where we are today, a world divided on so many levels. We must stop allowing and using this idea to become whole again.

"Process and Delete"

Your mind is your hard drive, so we process information, file and save it. Process and save means you will relive this same moment in the future over and over. Your Light wants you to process the emotions, thoughts and experiences then delete. Process and delete means every moment in the future will be different and you will have new experiences.

"We All Don't See the Same Thing"

What you see and what others see are not the same until you both agree; even then, they will differ. Each will not know exactly what each other sees until the next step of oneness.

"Beware"

The Idea, right and wrong, will evolve to confrontation and violence of many forms. There is no good ending when this idea is practiced.

"Be Calm In These Moments"

Both letting go of and taken from you of some sort will be experienced on your path. each you must be the master of, not them mastering you.

"Just a Heads-Up"

All the work you do on the outside of you means nothing if no work is done on the inside of you.

"We All Must Master This"

Breaking the habit of judging another is one we all must master.

"These Methods Don't Work"

Avoiding and running away from life's lessons is futile in the game of life. Better to face now and move on to the next step.

"A Thought To Consider"

The more material things you have the idea of taking from you can be used against you. When you have nothing, this idea does not apply.

"You Get It"

Your Light says there are no mistakes in Life. It just means you now understand.

"It's a Never Ending Dark Path"

As long as we continue to make things matter In life, conflict will always follow.

"Having Less Is More"

Those who have less, already have more. Those who have more, are always seeking or wanting, but never having, more.

"Where We Are Headed"

Life as we know it is changing: "Letting Go" and "Downsizing" is the direction we are going. If you have already started continue, those who have not then things will come about to help you.

"It's Showing You Something"

There is good in every situation we are just not taught to find it. Sometimes you will not figure it out until some time passes, but there was a point to the chaos.

"It Will Spread"

What inequality that is happening to any group of beings and goes uncorrected will spread to all, that is the goal and to think otherwise is an Illusion.

"Change Your Viewpoint"

Changing how you look at things will also change how you feel about things.

"It's Everywhere"

Greed has no borders and has its hands in everything, also has many names. When it comes for you, it will leave you with nothing and continues to prey on you to the end. Compassion is our way out.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 7

"Be Still"

To see and find the magic you must be still.

"It's Not Ok"

At some point on your Journey, you will arrive at the understanding that saying and doing hurtful things in all areas of life are not ok. Those of you that already understand this continue. Those of you who have yet to arrive, listen to the ones already there and move towards this understanding.

"Get Passed the Drama"

Do not dwell on what got you to this situation; instead look at what you need to see and learn while you are in this situation.

"Pass or Fail"

You are to show and share to the world, you. Do not hold back, stand tall and walk with confidence. Others may have things to say to tear you down, do not be tempted for that is the test. Did you pass or fail in that moment?

"Highs Are Easy the Lows Are More Challenging"

Whatever your topic in life is to learn, just remember, you must master both the high and the low sides of the topic.

"We Can Stop This"

The idea of credit is a way for greed to have no limits on prices, leaving you with nothing and in never ending debts. We can stop this if we stand as "One."

"Acceptance Is a Feeling Not an Idea"

Acceptance to your Light is: A feeling of peace, confidence and stability that comes from within. When you are in this space, life situations are easier to handle and solutions flow. Now that you are aware of this, look inward for this energy.

"The Shortest Distance and the Most Overlooked"

Your most sacred spot is inward.

"True Service"

The idea do something to receive something promotes the Idea of taking and conditions, this is not serving. To your Light to serve means to help and assist unconditionally. This Is your True Nature not how or what can we do to take, hurt or get from each other.

"Look Inward To Stop the Energy From Rising"

Once a dark emotion or energy takes someone over you are now dealing with this energy and no longer the person. This energy wants to be released and will return if not corrected. The individual carrying and releasing it is the only one who can correct It. Others can only tell them of this behavior and or open the door to a way out.

"No Need To Defend"

People think they need to protect their Light and feelings, but the truth is your Light is here to protect You. Your line of defense is not needed, so let go.

"There Is a Difference"

Live life to understand not to be understood. You will move through the lessons faster this way.

"How Do You See It?"

When you find an item of some sort with no identification on your path, do you see it as something you created or someone who has lost It? No right or wrong answer here, just your understanding.

"The Outside Becomes Less Important"

The more you evolve into your True Nature, the less you participate on the outside and can see what is truth and what is not.

"Your Light Is the One To Follow"

Your Light is your best friend and is very wise, why you follow others that are not is a mystery.

"Searching Outward Is a Detour"

Your strength, courage, compassion just to name a few, all come from within you, do not go looking anywhere else it's a detour.

"Don't Let Fear Tell You Otherwise"

When you do your Light's work, you will be taken care of, this you can be sure.

"It's All About You In the Void"

Do not resist or fight being alone, surrender to it. Isolation is not necessary, being still, no thoughts or emotions is what is needed. Practice this for as long as you can, you will need this to get through the Void.

"Do You Help Sometimes, or All the Time"

When someone who is in need crosses your path do you; help him or her, judge him or her or avoid him or her? Your True Nature wills only do one of these.

"Filling In the Blanks Is the Same As Assuming"

Your mind needs to know the full story or it will fill-in the blanks of what it thinks it sees. You will find most of the time you will be incorrect in your assumptions. A habit you must change.

"Time To Move On To the Next Chapter"

When life squeezes you, it will seem like you are losing everything and or cannot do the things you used to. This just means it is time to change directions and do different things. Pay attention to the signs and see where you need to be for your next adventure.

"This Is the Only Way To Change You"

You need to be in control of your thoughts and emotions not them controlling you.

"Rebirth Is Everyday You Wake Up"

Every day is supposed to be a new beginning not a repeat.

"Kids Do It Right"

Go back to being simple, just like how kids see and do life.

"Having Less Helps You"

We are not here to acquire more things we are here to let go. The one with the most doesn't win, the one with the least is the winner.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 8

"An Opportunity To Be You"

When life gives you a do over, it is an opportunity to go into it with your true nature and come out with your true nature still Intact.

"You Will Lose Interest"

When you no longer need to be entertained, you are on the path of Light.

"You Are a Lot More"

To think that this is all there is, is a very limited way of thinking.

"Keep Going"

Do not get comfortable with any one way of being, because another way of being is on the Next Step and there are always more steps to come.

"We Are To Help Not Hurt Each Other"

Your true nature is to encourage people, not to belittle them.

"Be Free From Having To Own It"

When you appreciate all that you see but do not need to own It you are walking in your Light.

"Nature Helps You Get There"

As you become more Light, nature is more valuable and you will spend more time there.

"Just Be You"

"Comparing" yourself to others is a habit that must be changed.

"Cooperation Unites Us"

When we as a whole can move from competition to cooperation, it is a huge leap for mankind.

"You Need To Be Awake"

Having routines puts you to sleep, changing this behavior will wake you up.

"Idolizing Is Another Behavior To Change"

On your path focus on the ideas or wisdom that empowers you, don't idolize people, it " a distraction.

"Remember"

"Love Is ALL; All Is Love," is what your Light lives by. So, can you.

"Don't Be Tempted"

Wealth or money is not the goal it is a detour. Follow your talent and see where it leads you.

"A Society Divided"

Giving brings us together buying separates us. We are to be a giving society not a consuming one.

"Being Rooted Is a Limitation"

While we are here, we are not supposed to be rooted in life we are adventurers, traveling, learning, changing and expanding is our True Nature.

"Sharing Some Wisdom"

Once you start any belief, behavior or habit, they all will evolve and spread to every area in your life. If you choose one that is dark, it evolves to loss and tragedy. If you choose one that is Light, it evolves to freedom and empowerment. Knowing the difference helps you choose wisely.

"Your Talent Gets Understated By You"

Unplugging from the outside way of being will lead you to your purpose, for those who don't know and are Lost. Be patient, the answers will unfold at their own pace.

"Appearances Can Be Deceiving"

If a Master should cross your path, they may take on the appearance of one that most would avoid or not give the time of day. An opportunity is lost because we judge and don't embrace all.

"We Have Forgotten"

To say I cannot serve you unless you serve us is not your true nature of service. To not feed another when you can or not heal another when you can is a crime against all beings. Practicing this idea is not the path of Light.

"Attachments Be It Emotions, Anything Physical, or Mental"

When you fully understand attachments in all forms, then the game of life is easy. You must discover yours as they all play out for you on your path. Once you identify them, then you must change them if they are not of light.

"All Kinds Of Gifts"

If you feel uneasy around some and you're not sure what it is, You are sensing their dark intentions even though they are hiding behind thoughtful words. This is an invaluable gift, Practice and evolve this gift.

"Another Free Gift"

"Light" Information is always flowing and is not exclusive. You just need to have no thoughts or feelings to tune in.

"What Are You Giving Your Energy To?"

When you attach yourself to an idea or belief, it means you will be giving away your energy to empower those ideas and beliefs if they are not ones that evolve you. This is what giving your power away means.

"There Is Always More"

How you see it is how it is, but it is not absolute."

"By Now You Should Know the Difference Between Them"

Let the light energies take you over not the dark energies.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 9

"Doors Will Open"

You need to turn the page on what you already know and go find what else is awaiting you. "Let it unfold"

"Bait and Switch"

When you offer an outward physical illusion to another, they will acquire it like a trophy. They will eventually lose interest and move on. This is a behavior practiced by many in life. It is only a surface attraction, you must move past this to see clearly, otherwise pain and suffering will occur.

"Put Your Faith In You."

Trust and believe in yourself and no other for they must do the same for themselves.

"There Is a Big Gap"

For most, the higher you climb the corporate ladder the more disconnected you become from the collective. Know there is always a way back but you must want it more than the carrots being dangled.

"Can't Hold Back, Time Is Up"

The energy that is around us now is making it more difficult to deceive or hold back what we try so dearly to hide for all not to see. Pay attention and you will see it everywhere for Truth is in the air for all not just some. Being aware will help you move through it.

"Letting Go Of Control Is a Hard One for Most"

When you walk In the path of Light, it is an unconditional way of being. Having time limits is a condition the path will remind you to let go of your control and all conditions. Here is where most will lose interest and walk another path for more understanding is needed only to return later.

"History Will Repeat Itself Using Today's Methods"

The more technology is in control, at some point, it can and will be used against all beings if we do not keep the mindset controlling the technology in check.

"Your Dream or Someone Else's"

To live life on purpose is far more meaningful than to live life as expected.

"This Is How Your Light Sees It and So Should You"

A loss is only a Loss if you learn nothing or change nothing otherwise it Is a victory.

"This To Is Possible"

Ascension is when your Light's energy is fully released from within, fills your body and mind completely. Currently we all are only on life support from our Light. When this change occurs, we will know and feel a big difference.

"Watch Out for This"

You will see guilt used sometimes on your path. The intentions behind this method are to get control of you and/or wants something from you. This Is not a Light behavior, therefore it does not empower you, and it takes from you.

"One Is Phony, One Is Not"

A Light response is very different from a correct response. The more awake you become you will be able to discern the difference, do not let this gift slip away.

"If you are asleep, this is a clever method, if you are awake it does not fool you!"

Teasing is a method in which to release the truth and call it something different. You will find other methods used to do the same behavior on your path. Pay attention to be able to discern what is in front of you.

"See the Wisdom, and Skip Some Steps"

To be honored or valued in life most will seek this outwardly in the form of words, titles or trophies. Once acquired some will learn these were not needed or the goal, the lesson was for you to honor and value you all along.

"Trust and Pay Attention"

Following your Light is like a magic carpet ride, always surprising, fun and will guide you pass the land mines on your path. However, if it is an opportunity to change you, your Light will guide you to the least impact option to take for the opportunity at hand. Stay in your peace and calm space to receive your direction in these moments.

"Not All Way Showers Are At the Same Level"

An advanced Master of Light: Lives simple, not lavishly, will serve you, not you serve them, and will show you how to empower you, not take your power. An advanced Master of Light will share with you, not want for you. Most importantly, will never be above any being, always an equal, therefore bowing down to or worshiping will not be asked of you or allowed.

"Try Not To Ask the Why Question"

In life your questions get answered and you must fully understand all the answers; if you do not, an experience or an event will come about to give you the understanding You lack. So be very careful of the entire why questions you ask on your path. Example of a why question you might not want to ask is; why do people get a divorce?

"Attachments Be It Emotions, Anything Physical, or Mental"

When you fully understand attachments in all forms, then the game of life is easy. You must discover yours as they all play out for you on your path. Once you identify them, then you must change them if they are not of "Light".

"There Are No Exceptions"

One of the rules in the game of life is; What you give out you will receive back. You must experience both sides to fully understand the impact of what you send out; Most importantly not to be one sided. Most people know this some need to be reminded.

"Light"

Light, the ultimate tool, is your secret advantage and will be referred to frequently throughout the pages in this book. What is your Light? Your Light is your power; it is what you are searching for in life. Inward is where you will find it.

Discernment

Discernment is a very important tool. In life, you will need to know the difference between what your light says is truth and what others say is truth. Which direction is right for you and which is not? Your light speaks to you in many ways so you will need to pay attention and feel your way through. Do not let guilt, pity, habit, hopelessness, doubt, I cannot, I do not know, fear, be your guides and make your choices. Take a deep breath, calm yourself, wait, and look for the other choice. For us, fear, frustration and doubt were our guides and made our choices for too long. Now we know to face all these emotions and not let them take us over. Then your light can get through to you and guide you.

"This Is the Test"

Whatever your life situation is, never give up hope. Do not let the pain win and hope Loose.

"Get Quiet and Reconnect"

Your Light is your truth it does not deceive. Go inward to find it. Trust your Light.

"Time To Let Go"

Everyone must tame their tiger that is within them, or it will attack even the innocent for it knows no boundaries.

"Don't Be Afraid To Change"

Once you are awake, you can see who or what is draining you in life. Next step is to replace them with ones that balance and support You. If you do not, they will suck you dry just like a vampire.

"Just So You Know"

Life is the school and the experiences are the lessons. Learn the lessons and you can change.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 10

"Experiences May Differ"

When it comes to wisdom, the methods may differ, but the Idea does not. Do not discard the idea.

"Stay True To Your Light"

Can you shine your Light in every moment in a world that has darkness tempting you to join? That is the challenge for us all.

"Letting go was not intended to be hard, or to make you suffer."

In life situations, if you volunteer to let go it is much easier to move on to the next step. If it has to be taken it is much harder to move on and you may or may not make it to the next step.

"Laughter Helps Ease The Pain"

Remember to be kind and gentle to you on your journey, this is always overlooked especially in the low moments. Master this and your world is a better place.

"Step Into Your Light"

Your Light is beyond all the beliefs that are known to you. To know your Light, you have to let go and be open.

"Pay Attention To You On Your Journey"

Darkness is saying and doing things that do harm to you and others. Light is just the opposite. Darkness is a detour. Light is empowerment.

"You Can Master This Idea"

Do all things in life because you want To, not because you have to. Just by changing this viewpoint, it will change your experiences for the better.

"Don't Get Stuck"

If you have not learned anything, it means you haven't changed anything. Changing ways of being moves you to the next step.

"You Need To Recharge Yourself"

Balance in life means, whatever you give out to others you must give equally to you. If you do not, life will give you a time out to Re-energize and show you the Imbalance.

"Be Free of Possessions"

The idea to own is one that is an illusion. You never really own anything, and in many cases, it owns you. Instead, just enjoy the item then let go.

"You Can Walk Away"

Can you live life without a conventional home and everything that goes with it? Yes! If you choose to do so, there is no limit on how you can create your own way of living. Do not let fear stop you from living a life that is possible for you.

"You Need To Focus Inward"

Pay attention to the energy you use when you speak or any action you take. You will be able to identify if it is a dark or Light energy right away. Remember you only want to send out light energy.

"You Can Change Perspectives"

How you see life will tell you everything and what you need to change about you. Paying attention is the key.

"Can't Say This Enough"

The more you let go of the material stuff, the more free you become. The material stuff is the distraction; it keeps you from being you.

"Look Inward Until You Find It"

You can be self sustained on the outside, the next step is to be self sustained on the inside, and you have to reconnect with your Light to make this happen.

"It's Easier To Change the Little Things"

Changing the big things in your life are obvious but the little things in life are even more important. Why, because they will evolve to the bigger things and the bigger they are the harder it is to Stop.

"Practice, Practice, Practice!"

"To free your mind", translation, no thoughts or emotions on the inside, then information can flow to you.

"Look For This"

"The journey is more Important than the goal". Which means, how you achieved it and what methods you used to get the goal is what is Important. Are they dark or light methods every step of the way?

"Step Out of Your Comfort Zone"

Do not follow just one group or one-way of being. Explore and try other methods and ways of being on your journey. Remember, be adventurous you may be surprised at what is waiting for you.

"There Are Different Types of Schools"

What are you well educated in, knowledge from Societies Schools or the School of Life? Societies Schools will evolve the outside. The School of Life will evolve your Light. You can choose either; just make sure you make the choice and not others.

"Be Selective"

Look to see where an idea or belief will lead you before you choose to follow and attach yourself to it. Any signs of darkness do not follow.

"The Doorway Is Inward"

Your Light does exist and to think otherwise is a loss and a tragedy beyond measure.

"Allow All To Come Up"

The "Void" is a transitional phase You will pass through going from the outside way of being to your Lights way of being. The duration depends on how well you process each item that rises from within. Patience and the will to continue is the key.

"More Cleaning"

Why will some go through the "Void"? It is your Lights way of cleaning house. There are things that you are still attached to and need to let go of. Once this is done it opens the path for your Light to come through and reconnect.

"If no changes are made pain and suffering will continue."

We each have a Theme we are working. Events will continue to show up on your path until you make peace with them and they have no power over you. The steps of change may be small but nonetheless it is a step towards freedom of pain and suffering. No matter what, "Keep Changing".

(Back to the TOC)

Section 11

"One Method To Get Control"

Some feelings start in the stomach area then will rise to your head if you let them. Once it gets to the head, it has control over you and wants to be released. To stop it from rising up, focus inward as soon as you can and it will stop, now you are in control. Each time you do this it gets weaker and will eventually be gone.

"Understand the Difference"

"True" and "Truth" are not the same. True, is when you attach yourself to an idea or belief then you will make it become true. "Truth", is being able to see through the illusions that are in front of you, now you are your Light.

"Don't Resist Go With the Flow"

Societies Life Plan is a house of cards. At some point you will see how fragile it is on your path. Stay calm as best as you can, there is a reason for the situation you are facing. Changes are needed in your life going forward so go with the flow and don't resist make the changes.

"They Must Want It"

You can not give a quality to someone in life they must give it to himself or herself. All you can do is teach or show them the quality; the rest is up to them. Examples of quality would be trust or wisdom.

"Time Is Up"

We are infinite beings understanding limited ways of being. There is an end to it all, and the time is now. Life is giving you an opportunity, take it and don't look back.

"You Are Never Above Anyone"

Remember, you are a student just as much as you are a teacher. If you forget, life will send someone in to remind you how much you don't know.

"Why Follow When You Already Are a Leader"

Don't attach yourself to the people giving the knowledge, the information is what's important. Take the information given if it speaks to you and apply it.

"Information Is Everywhere"

We all fear the loss of someone or something. When the truth is everything takes another form of energy, and can be accessed but we just forgot how, but that is changing, we are all remembering.

"Allow Yourself To Relax Into Nothing"

Better to be deep in no thought than to be deep in thought.

"They Always Start Small"

Signs that show you are moving out of gratitude and becoming ungrateful. When you start demanding, expecting, complaining, no enjoyment in the moment and can only see the bad. Being aware is how you change.

"Stay In Your Peace and Calm Space"

Once you start going inward, you will find you are at peace most of the time. What takes you out of your peace, is your choice, remember it is a choice.

"Advantages Of Observing"

Now that you are observing yourself, there is no need to send a messenger to play it out for you, less drama. This is just one of the benefits when you start paying attention to yourself.

"Just Relax and Remember"

Lucid dreams are ones that you can interact in, meaning you can ask questions and you will get the answers. How do you know if it is a lucid dream? It will seem very real like you are there. You just need to remember you can talk.

"Follow Your Light"

When You start to reconnect with your Light, you will have to let go of being in control and pay attention Inward in order to be guided by your Light. In the beginning, you will find most of your time is free to do what ever and very little time is needed by your Light. As you progress, this does change and you will enjoy it.

"Go Within and Listen"

Most will learn a correct response and then cannot wait to repeat it. Very few will be aware enough to respond from their Light. Just know both responses are there you just have to listen.

"Don't Hold On"

The darkness is just a teacher not a way of life.

"Don't Relive It Again"

When a negative emotion or energy starts to arise within you because of a current moment, just know it is not about the current moment it is about a past moment when it was all created. This moment is showing you it's still there, and it is time to let go and be free.

"Information"

There is a space just before you wake up, if you are aware enough, you can get information from your Light, they speak to you about what to expect. To access it, you have to slowly move towards waking up if you go to fast you will miss it.

"To Be Free"

As you progress into your Light, you know the darkness exists but it no longer draws you in, what a feeling in that moment!

"Knowledge Gives You More Choices"

The path least traveled, is inward. Most will spend their time only on the outward because they are not aware of both paths; this is why only one is taken and why expanding your knowledge changes everything.

"Enough"

When you start saying things like; "I'm done", "I don't want to be like this anymore", "I don't like what I have become", you are telling your Light you are Ready to come back to your true self. Pay attention because things will be presented to you to get back on track.

"Let Go Of Your Defensive Behavior"

Your defensive line will be your most challenging to let go because it is heavily fortified. just remember, your light does not need to be defended it can stand on its own, so let go.

"What a Gift"

When what people say no longer gets a reaction or has an effect on you, it is a moment of being free and you are standing in your Light.

"It All Gets Recorded"

To your Light; It's how you got your wealth and what you did with it that is important, not your net worth. You can be sure this will be looked at either now or latter.

"It's Not Bad It's Good"

"Bronco Busting Time" which means life is going to ride and disrupt your way of life until you let go and change. Life is telling you it is time to do what you came here to do, so don't resist and move on.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 12

"Eventually They Will Ware You Down"

Life on the outside will continue to offer you carrots to chase on your path. The question is, how long do you want to chase these illusions?"

"Fear Will Take You Over If You Don't Take Back Your Control"

Phobias are where you are headed if you do not face and change what is being shown to you. If you reach this advanced stage, Help is needed to get you back in control.

"This To Is Possible If We Choose So"

We as individuals can change ourselves, but we as a whole can also make changes. The darkness greatest fear is the people all unite and take back their power that was surrendered to just a few.

"The Eyes Are a Doorway"

When you look into someone's eyes long enough, you can make a connection to their Light. If you are still on the inside, you will be able to feel it when the connection is made. Everything changes in that moment; observe the magic.

"Our Version Is Diluted Compared To Our Light's Version"

To us compassion, gratitude, forgiveness, acceptance are words with a variety of understandings, sometimes practiced sometimes not. To our Light they are a way of life with a feeling unlike any other. The levels or versions are very different most are not even close to their Lights version.

"Beware Of This"

Most will want big changes when only taking small steps.

"You Now Create On Purpose"

To be awaken means you are remembering your True Nature. Things that once made since no longer do in life. You are aware of everything on the Inside and the outside, everything about you changes just because you are now aware. Now you are back on track.

"Life Wisdom"

The darkness is a master at changing the meaning or understanding on everything in life. The best way to see through their illusions is to look at their intentions on what is being shown. Their signature is always a negative feeling or idea and most importantly it will only serve a few never the whole, that is the clue.

"These Will Help You Reconnect"

Tones and notes of music are very important to the body and your Light. When you find the ones that resonates with you, your body will vibrate and or have a feeling of joy. Take the time to find yours.

"The Now Is the Focus"

Reliving past good moments also takes you out of the current moment. This in addition, you must let go of. You must master Being in this moment and no other.

"Water is Very Important"

Our body is mostly water, but we eat more solids than water. This in itself should speak volumes. Our understanding of what water offers us is greatly understated. Your Light says; life for you is in the water so drink up.

"This Is A Must"

Bless your food and water with your Light energy. This will give it positive energy and put Life back into them. Also, do not confuse gratitude with blessing they are different.

"Most Will Take Small Steps"

The stronger your mindset the smaller the steps to change. When you have little or no mindset, the steps towards change are bigger.

"They Are Just the Messengers"

Your battle is not with the person or thing that pushes your buttons. In these moments you must face what rises within you. Your focus is what stops and changes the energies and thoughts.

"Being Neutral Doesn't Mean You Can't Offer Assistance"

Not being on one side or the other is being neutral; this is your True Nature. Some advantages of being neutral, you can see and understand both sides, also a solution will be given to you that favors both. Not to mention you have no emotions or thoughts on either side.

"We All Get To Choose"

There is your way, the darks way or your Lights way of doing life. Most will have a mixture of all the above, some a little heavy in the first two. Eventually we all go back to one way of being, our Light, because we now understand the difference.

"You Will Review All"

Just so you know everything you say, think, action you take and all emotions or energies used are all recorded for you to review. What you did not learn or change will be repeated until you do. So lying, ignoring and cheating is futile. This is what is meant by, You are only hurting yourself.

"This Is How You Know"

When you fully understand a lesson, you will stop doing it if it is one that is dark, and if it is one of Light, you will continue and seek more.

"Especially Inward Stay Calm and Keep Searching"

Society does not tell you the full story, there are many pieces missing or changed. Most are starting to understand this and are searching for the missing pieces or truth. It is when in life you stop searching you need to pay attention too. Searching is a tool that keeps you moving on to the next step in life.

"Being Aware Is the Key"

In life you will relive past moments to be given an opportunity to change the outcome. If you do change your response and/or reaction in this current moment, you also change the past moment. To your Light this is huge and for you it is empowering.

"Strength comes from within you and shows up in many different ways."

For me, my strength for change lies in understanding, once I understand, strength shows up and change is easy. You must discover where your strength lies to change, then the lesson will go much faster.

"Never Let These Energies Make Your Choices"

When you are about to make a choice in life check inward first to feel and see what energy is present. If it is sadness, guilt, hatred, fear, pity, anger to name a few dark ones, it means these energies are making the decision for you and will likely continue until you face and change them. Get back to your calm space before you say or do anything.

"There Are All Kinds Of Habits"

Any habit is an addiction, why, because you keep doing It.

"The energy is what you are joining not the words!"

Before attaching yourself to an idea or belief, observe and feel what energies are behind them first. This energy is really what they are about; the words are the distraction or the lure to get you to join.

"Many Types Of Pains In Life"

Pain exists for us as a teacher and to get your attention. Once you feel the pain most will stop the behavior, some will continue.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 13

"Learn To Feel Again"

You must master identifying and feeling all the energies within you when they show up. Next step, take this tool and apply it when you are with others. Feel their energy when they speak or do not speak this will tell you instantly what you are dealing with. Once you master this, you will breeze right through the darkness untouched.

"Both Are Present"

There is just as much light as there is dark on your journey. It all depends on you, which one do you seek the most.

"There is no need to relive the whole event, just face the energy."

To face means focus your attention on or look at the energy that arises within you in all moments. This will break the connection to the thoughts or words that go with it. In addition, this will make the energy weaker. You may have to face them a few times before they are gone so be patient.

"The Change Occurs In Your Perception"

To your Light; there is no loss, there Is only change.

"Look For This When You Focus Inward"

When a thought comes from your Light, it is always very subtle and is non-aggressive. It will seem like a suggestion or thought you may not have ever considered. If it is delivered any other way, you can be sure it is not coming from your Light.

"Inward Work That Must Be Done"

Let our Light energies rise, take you over then release and share with others. Do not let dark energies rise; take you over or release and share with others.

"Things Are Evolving Faster"

The evolution process has sped up; which means what used to take several steps to achieve is now taking fewer steps. This is happening to both light and dark ways of being.

"You Are To Focus On You In All Situations"

Remember, things in life are not happening "To You," things in life are happening "For You." All to expose what you carry within you, be it your Light or Dark stuff.

"Try Not To Ask the Why Question"

Question: In life your questions get answered and you must fully understand all the answers, if you do not an experience or an event will come about to give you the understanding you lack. So be very careful of the entire "Why" questions you ask on your path. Example of a why question you might not want to ask is; Why do people get a divorce?

"Give It To Yourself"

What you give to others is what you came here to give to yourself, go within to find it.

"Disappointment Can Only Exist If You Hold On To It"

Disappointment is an illusion and a self-imposed form of suffering. This idea does a lot of damage to you and your Light, time to let go.

"This Takes Patience"

When you can feel the quiet or stillness", you are in your Light. There is energy or profoundness in the quiet so be still to connect.

"Why In Life You Have Highs and Lows"

This is one of the best ways of testing to see if you are coming from your Light with no conditions or is it phony and has many conditions? Example: Your happiness is the test, are you just as happy when you have nothing as when you had everything? Your Lights happy never changes, phony happy changes, this will all show up in the low moments".

"Each Can Only Change Themselves"

Some want to change others in life, this idea never ends well so do not attach you to this one. If you are already attached and practicing this idea you must change you, ironic is it not.

"Impressing Everyone Else Is a Detour"

Your "Light" is the only one to impress in life. The rewards are beyond what you know to be true.

"A Great Tool"

As you progress into your "Light," you will be able to identify if light energy is being used or behind everything that crosses your path. This ability allows you to see through the phony good and the deceptions being played out.

"You Are To Stop the Behavior Not Delay It"

Keeping score in life does not fix anything; it is a delay and adds another layer for you to change.

"Getting Back On Track"

Most are trying to hold on to society's dream when it's time to let go of this idea, there is another idea emerging where everyone wins not just a few.

"It's All About the Energies You Use"

Dark energies have no boundaries. They want to be used in everything you say and do in life as long as you allow them to rise within you, take you over and be released to others. Light energies only follow your True Nature they will never give life to or be behind anything that does harm to you or others. Understand the difference and know both are within you.

"These Behaviors Will Do A Lot Of Damage To You"

When these behaviors cross your path, yelling and arguing, dark energies are being used and released. No Light energy is participating here and neither should you, if you can, walk away.

"You Are the Source"

Buttons in life that will release the feeling; most will attach themselves to the person, place or thing that pushed the button thinking this is what or how you get happiness or joy. The Buttons were intended to remind you of the feeling and where you go to find It, within you not on the outside. Do not attach yourself to the messenger or button; attach yourself to you and find it within.

"This is How We As a Whole Do It"

Uniting, coming together and we stand as one, must all be in peace then we are on the Light path as a whole.

"Turning the Heat Up Is Needed To Help You Let Go"

Because we hold on to some life experiences and either can't or won't let go or forgive them, life will turn the heat up in these experiences until you do.

"When You Unbusy Yourself You Can Put the Pieces Together"

Life as we currently are living leaves no time for you to step into your Light and evolve you. This you must change and make more time available for you to change you.

"The Information Will Come Quick"

To be guided by your Light, you must be in your peace and calm space within to be able to know your next move. How the information arrives will vary so pay attention.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 14

"To Help Change a Belief You Must Show It Exists"

Those that need the most compassion or kindness need an abundance of these given to them. Why, because they do not believe they exist. So, shine your Light in these moments.

"Things Will Come and Go"

As you change and remodel your way of being, people, places and old ways of life will drop away to end the understanding. All new people and places will show up to help you on the next understanding. Do not get comfortable because the remodeling will continue, as well as life understandings will continue to change.

"One Will Live Forever, One Will Not"

Live to Inspire not to show off.

"Limits"

Darkness leads to destruction to you and everything around you and is a limitation. Light leads to empowerment, independence, freedom, expansion, and no limits.

"Awareness"

When someone says I did not see it coming, it just means they were not paying attention. Your light is always telling you something; such as what to let go of, when to look for a new job, move, sell, buy, where to go, what the lesson is. In any situation in your life look back and see if you can remember the signs that were there, but you chose not to listen. Applying this will help you going forward to watch for the signs and this time follow them.

"The Work Is Inward"

When you look inward, you are looking for all negative thoughts and emotions. All this dark stuff is poison to your body, mind and light. Your light says this all has to go.

"Emotions"

Emotion is the fuel for all thoughts. The more they take you over makes them stronger and stronger. All dark emotions must go; they stop your light from shinning. How do you stop the emotions? Check inward when it starts to rise in the body. If it gets to your head, it now has control over you and you will react. Do not hold it in, it destroys the body; try to release it without any words. Next time catch it at the stomach area, your focus inward stops it from rising and makes it weaker and eventually it will be gone.

"Answers To Your Questions"

What do we change? The dark stuff you carry. How do we change? We change through awareness and understanding. Why does your light want to change? To shine more light and bring you back Home.

"Energy"

I hear people say they enjoy giving, which is true. My light tells me it is the energy behind the giving that you really enjoy not the deed.

"Your World"

Your light wants you to remember; you are not here to change the world, you are here to change your world, which means, everything negative you attach yourself to along your path you let go of and go back to being positive, more light.

"Answers Instantly"

By checking inward it is like the Internet, you can get your answers instantly. Now your Light does not have to send a messenger which you may or may not be home to receive.

"Powerless"

Eliminate the emotions behind the thoughts then the thoughts have no power.

"Leap of Faith"

People forget when they take a leap of faith to follow their dreams, doors open and people will show up to take you on your journey.

"Finally Meet"

When your Light, Body, Mind finally meet and come together to be one, then your inward work is done.

"All That Is Good"

Your Light is the energy behind everything that does no harm to you or others. The more you follow all things that are good the stronger this energy gets.

"Outside Versus Inside"

Everything on the outside is intended to keep you from looking inward.

"Will Power"

Negative behavior, thoughts, emotions are always knocking at your door, asking or forcing you to join; Use your will power and choose to resist.

"Transformation"

Transform your suffering one negative emotion, thought, behavior at a time.

"Flashlight"

Your Light is your flashlight; it will guide you through your darkness and all the unknowns. You just have to reconnect and trust the guidance.

"Different Paths"

We are all learning and understanding different things in life that is why we have different paths. Each path must be allowed so we can complete and learn what we came here for. Should our paths cross it means there is something we have to share that helps each other.

"In a Nutshell"

We are here to feel, give and receive an experience one time then let go. For example, you want to have the experience of sadness. First you will feel sadness, next you will give out sadness then receive sadness one time. Next step let go, because you now know and understand sadness. Now it is time to move on to the next experience and repeat the same steps. As you can see, we forgot all this and got stuck. Now each one of us must take a look at ourselves to see which one of these steps we are stuck on. Are we holding on to the feeling? Are we stuck on the giving or receiving side? We forgot only one time. Last, we just cannot let go.

"Unconditional"

When what you say and do in Life doesn't require something in return or a response, then you are your Light.

"Expose and Heal"

Your Light does not intend you to handle your pain and suffering alone. To start the healing process you have to expose the pain; No more covering it up or hiding from it. Ask for help and get the support that is needed to get you out of the dark hole. Take the solutions and begin the healing one layer at a time.

"Autopilot"

What is Autopilot? It is words with no energy behind them. Such as, sometimes when people say thank you. How do you change this habit? Focus and be there for the words, put your Light energy behind them and the energy will return to you. Autopilot is another habit that has to go.

"Come Together"

The Light brings us together and when we stand as one there is no darkness that can survive.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 15

"Turn Your Light Up"

Your Light is your beauty, turn it up and everybody will want what you have.

"What You Give Life To"

Words are only words until you give them life and meaning, then the experiences begin. Once you are hooked, they will control you. When you are done, most will work in reverse order of the above equation ending with the words just being words again; now you are free.

"Difficult Path"

If your path seems intense and difficult, it is because you wanted to learn the lesson this time around and make the changes.

"Share and Empower"

We are to share this life with others not to take from others. Which means, we do not take anyone's joy, happiness, love from them; we share and empower these with them.

"Just the Guide"

You are not responsible for what others choose; you are just the guide. However, you are responsible for all of your choices.

"The Work That Must Be Done"

The thought, "What you don't want to face you must face". Translation, all traumas and anything negative that you carry on your journey, You must face and make peace. There are no exceptions. Even if you say you will not, that does not work it keeps showing up. Why you have to? They all hold you back and you cannot move on to the next step until it is done.

"Becomes Real"

Things were not a problem until someone told you it was and now you make it so.

"One In the Same"

Wanting to see or needing results before you can believe is the same as having expectations. They both lead to disappointment.

"Must Be Equal To Be Truth"

What people say and do sometimes differ. To have the same meaning they both must be equal. Watch for this on your path, the truth lies in the action should they both differ.

"Sell Your Materials and Lighten the Load"

Maybe you have, maybe you have not noticed it is getting harder to sustain the American Dream or even be a part of It. Why, because it's time to let go and move on to the next step, so don't hold on, trust you will be ok.

"Why? Because They Are No Longer Needed"

When you stop a habit, the events will stop that go with the habit. However, You will be tested to see if you are really free or if it still has power over you.

"Remember, Don't Follow the Money"

Sometimes in life, you will be faced with making a choice and will have multiple choices in front of you to achieve a purpose. This is a test when this crosses your path. The test is to see how you make your choice and/or what makes your choice for you. First eliminate these limitations from your equation: (1) What you fear. (2) What you think Isn't possible. (3) Greed or lack. (4) Others choosing for you. Next, look at the choices again without the above and choose. The point here is to not Let the limitations choose for you and let what you enjoy doing make the choice.

"Your Layers In Life"

The self-imposed rules that you attached to yourself will be looked at as you progress into focusing on you. What used to matter will no longer matter as you step into your Light. The rules will drop away; you will be lighter and more free to live.

"This Is Everywhere"

Labeling things in life will take on a life of its own and will be In control of you as it works its way to every area of your life. It always start small like one or two things, then it evolves to you no longer like all under that label. By doing this behavior you are not expanding in life you are creating limitations and life is not new every day but is a repeat.

"Your view is different than your Light's view for you in life."

Things in life do not always come to you when you want or in the way you want. Why, it is the beginning stages of helping you let go of controlling your life and move you to a different way of being.

"Just Passing Through"

The thought, in this world but not of it, means you understand this is just a place for you to create and Learn and it doesn't end here, you move on to the next level.

"Your Light Decides What Needs To Be Changed"

"Becoming your light means; you will have to look at and change all that does not serve your light. Sounds easy, but old habits, behaviors, experiences, beliefs and the mind can be a challenge to let go of or break. Most will give-up few will persevere. Great things await you if you "Do-The-Work."

"Inequality Divides Us, Equality Unites Us"

When we no longer "Fear" each other everything else will drop away. Fear is what we must eliminate.

"You Get To Choose the Method That Will Help You Change You"

Your feelings are being shown to you for you to fix. Blaming others for how you feel is not a fix, it is only adding another layer.

"A Fragmented Self Is Waiting for You To Embrace It."

You must integrate that which you dislike, because it is the one that taught you what you know today.

"Work Is Required, but You Can Do This"

In life you can choose to evolve you to self empowerment, which is true freedom. Everything else is the opposite which means very little to no freedom for you, this is what is meant by "Selling Your Soul".

"Your Light Knows When It's Time"

Your Light will give you your gifts when you have a mindset that is worthy to receive them.

"Let It Unfold"

Light Information is simple and needs no interrupter. If you are receiving this information from within you, Wisdom comes with it. Another perk when you go within and reconnect.

"A Message From the Forefathers"

It has been far too long and the people have forgotten, but the Forefathers know things have gone rotten. We are rolling over in our graves as each law that passes takes the people's rights and power away by the masses. The People are told it is for the good of the whole, when the Forefathers know it is a method used to give full control to just a few then legally use and abuse all, as they so choose.

"Remember, It Is the Understanding That You Seek"

To fully value your "True Nature" you must understand and embrace their opposites.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 16

"We Have a History Of Destroying What We Do Not Understand"

Nature has many gifts for us and is a great teacher. To destroy it means we are eliminating a Master.

"Look for Them"

When you can see the synchronicities in life, it is your Light showing you how it is done. It is only the beginning; there is more to come.

"Remember, Greed Has No Shame"

Our excessive consuming gives power to and promotes excessive greed. Once any group or individual tastes greed, greed will prey on you for more, their methods used are creative and limitless. By reducing your consuming habits, you regain your power.

"Our Forefathers Say To the Elected Ones"

It reads, "WE THE PEOPLE", Not Me, my Family, Friends and Top Sponsors First. It seems the elected ones may have changed their allegiance, for their words and actions differ, a sign of deception. Their action is where the truth lies.

"Your Awareness and Change Will Stop the Earthquakes"

If you cannot see what you need to change, an event will come about to help you see clearly. If another event is required for you to achieve clarity, it will be a stronger earthquake than the last, So brace yourself.

"Societies Version Is an Illusion"

Love is not an object or an idea it is a feeling or energy that comes from within you. This feeling requires no title; if one is given the truth will be changed.

"Your Light Is Your Best Guide"

If you have a guide outside of you, check to see if they are evolving you to your full potential, or are they evolving you for their full potential? Sometimes the lines get blurred.

"Spend your time becoming the master not the parrot."

Masters of the past say, reciting the message does not evolve you, doing what Is In the message is our evolution.

"Recruiting Others Is Not the Path Of Light"

The message will find the people, not find the people and give the message.

One is free will one is not.

"Welcome To the Game Of Life"

Blaming others for how you feel means you are misunderstanding the event. The event did as it was intended, to show you, You, this was the point. More events will occur on your path of life to reveal more stuff you carry for you to see and change what stirs within you. This is the opportunity behind each event.

"Always Moving On To the Next Step"

"A rolling stone gathers no moss", translation; One who learns the lessons, makes the changes in life and lives without attachments, is free.

"One Isolates You, One Unites You"

Seeing life from only one perspective limits you; seeing life from all perspectives expands you.

"Layers Means More Work for You"

Energy you store within you will want to be released at some point. Venting is one way to do just that. However, it does not fix anything, it only becomes a habit and another layer for you to stop.

"The First Step Is Just the Introduction"

Everyone will get his or her introduction to a spiritual path. Each step on this path will only take you so far then another step will be shown to you when the time is right.

"Ask and It Will Be Delivered"

You can ask your Light to send you a wave of energy. You need to be still to be able to feel it, and that you will.

"Both Sides Are Needed"

Opposites are needed to show each involved they are too one sided. Both sides are showing each what they both lack. Once this understanding is reached, peace is acquired.

"Only Some Have Changed All"

The past is very much alive in the present. What has changed is the name and appearance of the idea, but not the behavior or energy behind it.

"Vanity Has Power Over Many"

Vanity is the first step towards finding your beauty within. Are you still beautiful without the vanity? This is the test for you to see on this topic. When the vanity no longer is the focus, means you took the power away from vanity and gave it to yourself. Lesson learned task completed.

"One is a light path the other is a dark path."

Know the difference between that which you are drawn and that to which you are addicted. The Feeling behind both is very different not to mention their evolution differs greatly.

"One who seeks change does not always stay with one who does not."

Those who seek change will find it; those who do not, need more time to understand their Topic.

"This Does Not Empower You It Does The Opposite"

The idea of convenience evolves you to be dependent, nonadventurous, noncreative, a routine, and the list goes on. Most importantly it breeds fear. This will show up when it is taken from you or threaten to be taken.

"Letting go on the outside leads you to letting go on the Inside."

It is easy to know if someone does not let go in life just by looking in their garage, storage or closets, they say it loud and clear.

"Loss Is a Teacher, Not the End"

Whatever your topic is in life loss of some form will show up on your path. When you can reach the understanding that there is no loss of anything, then this word or idea will have no power over you. This we all must achieve or this idea will destroy you. Remember, it only means it's time to change and/ or time to let go that is at hand, not loss.

"This Is A Lot More Fun"

Why be adventurous? It will Lead you to your next step in life and it awakens you to be in the present moment or the now moment.

"Curiosity Is Not To Be Feared"

Curiosity opens the door to other possibilities, be it a light or negative path. Having the tool of discernment comes in handy here.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 17

"What do they want from you?"

You need to know the intentions behind all ideas, beliefs or people. This is where deception likes to hide and some are very clever. Knowing where to look, also, feeling your way through and paying attention can help if you are not well connected to your Light.

"What Stirs Within You When You Hear These Words?"

"Divine Timing" or it will happen when it is time means it is not going to arrive when you want it. Patience, doubt, you controlling things, are being tested here. Have you mastered them yet or are they mastering you?

"Sometimes It Happens Fast"

When what you are about to do is in alignment with your True Nature a burst of incredible energy will come from your heart area. Focus inward in these moments to witness and feel it. Thanks Otherwise, It can go unnoticed.

"Stress for Example"

It only becomes a part of you if you invite it in or by staying in its presence; it will ware you down and Invite itself in. This is with anything that crosses your path. Awareness and strength from within is needed here to be able to move on.

"There Are Many To Choose From"

While on your spiritual path try different methods and Ideas. What is effortless, flows easily or gives you a good feeling from within, is your Light telling you which one is right for you in this moment. Signs will come about when it is time to change your method so pay attention.

"This Is Adding a Layer Of Avoidance"

Asking others to change so you can feel better is no solution. It is you who must change to make you feel better.

"There Are Lower and Higher Energies To Use"

Fear is a lower energy; it needs people to produce it and continue to produce it for it to stay alive. Each must decide in every moment, every topic in life, if they want to keep it alive or let it go.

"Recap"

Lower energies come from the stomach area; some of the popular ones are sadness, guilt, hatred, anger, frustration and fear. You create and evolve them from your experiences, beliefs, habits, ideas etc.... Looking inward is the key when they start to rise for this is how you stop them. These energies do not empower you; They are the cause of your pain and suffering. Eliminate the cause and healing has begun.

"There Are No Exceptions"

One of the rules in the game of life is "What you give out you will receive back." You must experience both sides to fully understand the impact of what you send out, most importantly, not to be one sided. Most people know this some need to be reminded.

"Don't Attach Yourself To This"

Complaining is a downward spiral or a dark path. It will lead you to trying to get things for free at others expense, focuses on what you don't have instead of what you do have or a meaningless habit.

"Choosing how you see things in life will be what you experience."

When you discover that someone or something is a lie, do you see it as a betrayal or as a positive awakening? One will take you deeper down the rabbit hole, the other will pull you out. This is your choice on how you choose to see it. Either way both will become true. Know that the outcomes are very different.

"They Are Still There"

For us, traveling from place to place, we discovered the outward appearances changed but what remained constant everywhere was the life lessons for people were the same. Everyone is doing the same things only with a slight twist. So just changing your outward stuff does not change the life lessons or what goes on inward, they will follow you.

"A Step At a Time"

How can I help you instead of how can you help me? You are transforming from one way of being to another, one idea at a time.

"We fear what we don't understand, and/or draw to us what we fear."

If you fear the opposite side in your topic or life lesson, it means you will need to live as your opposite to fully understand and no longer fear that opposite. Once achieved, fear does not exist, because you now understand. Understanding eliminates fear.

"When used like this Time is more important than people."

Signs of time is taking control and is becoming more valued are when you have schedules, productivity, time limits, tardy and more time at work. When there is no time for you, it means time is in control of and has mastered you. This is not the path of Light.

"Value All Beings, They Are What Is Important"

Some will value their materials more than people or animals on their path. At the time, it seems harmless until later in life you are alone wondering why nobody shows up.

"Sacrificing Is a Downward Spiral"

Focus is what is needed not sacrificing. By visualizing and focusing on what you want is how you create what you desire, there is no need to give up or sacrifice anything.

"Travel is part of your Light's plan to get you back on track."

If travel is calling you it's time to make it happen. Many things will occur on this journey, all are necessary for you to see clearly and discover what is possible for you. Time to let go of what you know and discover what you do not know.

"Your Light Doesn't Always Repeat the Answer"

Your Light knows what is coming your way so the answers to your questions will be given to you far in advance before you ask them. The trick is to remember the answers, this is where having a journal comes in handy.

"Certain tones or frequencies of sound will activate a vibration within you."

The vibration you feel within you is ringing the doorbell to your Light energy. This energy will answer the door when it is ready not when you think you are ready. Patience and keep going forward is a must.

"Expanding Your Understanding Is the Key To Change"

When you understand both sides of a topic in life, it is easier to have compassion or forgiveness and harder to have a negative behavior. When you only know one side it is easier to have a negative behavior and harder to have a positive behavior.

"A Smile Lets Your Light Shine"

You can feel another's Light energy when they have an authentic smile. Everyone's Light comes through in these moments, however, a phony smile will be empty. You will be able to know almost instantly if it is phony or not.

"Life Tip"

You can be in control of pushing your own buttons by watching a movie, show or news that you have watched before and already know what feelings it will trigger. This is a great way to observe and practice looking inward to feel where the energy is and stop it from rising up within you.

"The lesson will be learned to think otherwise is a mistake."

Resistance to change or to complete any life lesson means a long, more intense path of pain and suffering until your guaranteed surrender occurs.

"This Means You Are Reconnecting"

When you no longer need to see or touch in order to believe, you are on the path of Light. Another sense is now being evolved called knowing. It will get stronger each step you take on this path unless you give up, then it will go back to sleep.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 18

"Not a Light Idea"

To judge this idea has many definitions or understandings depending on how it is used by each. This in itself should tell you it has all the makings of a negative perspective and promotes negative behaviors. No Light energy goes to or supports this word or idea it only observes and records the moment to go over later with you.

"Only one is leading you out of the Rabbit Hole; the others are taking you deeper."

One who shows or tells you what negative part of you that needs to be changed is far more valuable than those that tell you what you want to hear or says nothing. Choose wisely on which one you want to embrace on your path.

"The energies have shifted, different solutions are needed."

The solutions that used to work will no longer. You must look for another solution for your situations going forward, one will be presented that will be very different from your usual choice. Being calm, opened to and awareness is the key here.

"This Is Not Strength It Is Destruction"

Each tyrant in the past has shown what anyone can become or is capable of if their negative mindset goes uncorrected when given power and/or wealth over others. The same is true even without power or wealth; this negative energy can do the unthinkable at any level when it takes control.

"Take a Look At You And See"

If you have placed limitations on what you can enjoy in life, it's time to expand your enjoyment to include all. Enjoyment is not to be limited it is to be contagious. True enjoyment needs no chemical to get there.

"Be Like the Master"

Students will be one-sided and defend, Masters are balanced and can render a solution.

"Life Will Give You the Signs"

To your Light being vulnerable is following the unknown, relinquishing your control and pursuing your passion. We all will do exactly that at some point on our path. Best not to resist when the time comes for you to be vulnerable, look for the signs sometimes they are obvious sometimes not.

"Take a Look, and See What Do You Want From Others"

What you want from others is what you must give to yourself. Example; You want people to respect you. The lesson here is for you to respect you not getting it from others. It is that simple or you can go through the pain and suffering to arrive at this same understanding, your choice.

"Something I Have Learned, and Still Use"

Your Light sometimes will speak to you in symbols. This means you need to develop a symbols vocabulary that has meaning for you. Next, your Light will use these symbols and send a message that you can translate. Best to have a wide vocabulary.

"Inward Is the Pot Of Gold"

There is a limitless treasure that is yet to be awaken within you. What you read about or see others do, so can you. What limits these possibilities is you when you say no.

"More Than One Way It Can Be Used"

How we use our sexual energy today is one way, but there is another way it can be used. You can make it rise up the body to your head by visualizing it rising at first then just by willing it to move works also. By doing this, the bliss feeling will stay a lot longer and your whole body is totally energized. This may take some practice because of old habits but it is worth the effort.

"One Of the Best Gifts"

Master listening and observing you will recognize phony instantly, as well as understanding.

"Share your gift with others."

Your spiritual gift when given out to others is a wealth that gives a return unlike any other. If You don't share with others, the wealth can not return to you.

"You Are the Cure"

Your body will show You where the negative energies have done and are doing their damage. Some of the signs are aches, diseases and pains, the cause is anger, stress, fear, hatred which are the popular ones but there are more. Your choice to continue or stop.

"Shine your Light inward on your darkness."

Time to put your focus inward to expose and eliminate the darkness you carry. We all have negative energies we have attached ourselves to and spread whether we speak them or not, they still get released. Your focus is your power to defeat these energies when they show up within you, they can not survive your focus. This is what is meant by shine your Light on the darkness.

"Don't carry it with you, complete it and let go."

Having regrets means you didn't complete and make peace with what you started.

"You Can Tear It Down and Rebuild"

Everyone will build a defense, have self-Imposed rules thinking this is how you handle future events based on the past events. But it is a personal prison that is being built, as time goes on more rules are implemented. Before you know it, the walls are closing in on your world and you are living less and less because the rules won't allow it. If you are too deep, you will need help to get out. If you are not, you can get out yourself. Being aware and knowledge of what to look for is the keys to getting out of prison.

"Your True Nature Can Take It Away"

If you have a negative energy you can't shake, take a walk in nature, watch a comedy or do a good deed for someone. These all will take this lower energy away and your higher energy will return.

"Surface Changes Are Only an Illusion"

Things in life don't change until the perspective changes. Then and only then a shift occurs.

"No Exceptions"

Your full potential is in the higher energies. As long as you participate in the lower ideas and beliefs your full potential will elude You. You must transform yourself from the lower to the higher ways of being.

"Stand Up for Yourself"

Your Light wants you to be your True Self and stay in your highest energies. This is what you stand up for in life when all negative energies tempt you on your path.

"Integration Is the Path Of Light"

When you embrace an outcast, opposite or indifferent part, to your Light this is integration, becoming whole and empowerment. Integration is inevitable, resisting is futile, just so You know.

"What Do You Live and Share?"

If we all lived and shared our True Nature with each other in life, there would be no violence, hunger, unacceptance to name a few of the many benefits.

"We All Have the Gift Of Identifying What We Need To Fix"

When you can list your pet peeves, you are identifying what you need to look at and change. Don't get stuck on identifying move on to the next step of letting go of these attachments and energies.

(Back to the TOC)

Section 19

"There Is Always Support"

If you have no support or help in your inner circle of people know there is on the outer circle, don't let fear keep you from seeking it.

"This Stops the Flow"

"Doubt" dissolves what you believe in including yourself. Don't get started on this habit, if you have it's time for you to stop.

"Take a Look At Your Reasons"

I am who I am, but am I who I should be? If I am not, then what reasons have I attached myself to that stops me? Reasons keep you on the same step and/ or in the past which means you are not evolving or moving-on to the next step in life. Don't get stuck, move on.

"Don't Miss the Opportunity To Change"

Some will treat a stranger far better than those close to them. What is given to the stranger is what must be given to those close to you. This is the lesson for those involved to see and change.

"This is the challenge in the low, and negative moments."

Do your "Best" means; use your highest energies, best words and actions in every moment to all beings in life. See if you can do this when your buttons get pushed, it is a choice even in those moments.

"Don't Let Your Mind Take You There"

If You miss things in life, it means you are not enjoying the moment you are In. Your awareness will bring you back into the now.

"Do the work, keep going and trust it will show up."

If a lesson shows up instead of what you are manifesting or desire in life, it means what's in the lesson is blocking the flow of the item. You must complete and let go of this layer, don't get discouraged if there are more layers to clear before the item appears.

"What Gets Stronger Is Resistance"

If you continue to do the same things in life, no new experiences will be allowed. If you are at this stage, change gets weaker or nonexistent and resistance gets stronger. Embrace those that introduce change and/ or a different way of being. This is a way out of this behavior.

"Things Are Not Random In Life"

Anything introduced on your path will be experienced at some point unless it is already mastered. Your reaction or response will tell you if it is mastered, or a lesson is needed to complete the mastership.

"There Will Come a Time When You Just Know"

When you fully understand the wisdom given, an experience is not needed on any topic.

"Just a Reminder"

Get in the behavior of focusing your attention inward in every moment, for this is what's needed when your buttons get pushed to defeat the energy that is rising within you before it gets to your head. If the energy reaches your head, it has control of you, just release it but not unto others.

"Observe and Feel In These Moments"

Authentic kindness is an empowering experience unlike an empty kindness that takes or is meaningless. Both do exist, one is more common than the other.

"Break the Cycle and Look Inward"

When discouragement shows up, some will use it as a reason to give up, others will let it take them over and the cycle will continue. When in these moments you must focus your attention inward to defeat it and break the cycle.

"The outside was practice, inward is the real work to be done."

If you can identify and feel the Light in others, the next step is to identify and feel the Light in you.

"Most Will Resist Awareness"

If you are unaware you cannot change, it is when you become aware change can occur. Listen to those that identify your habits, behaviors, ideas and beliefs that need your awareness.

"They Show Up To Draw You In"

As thoughts or words flow into your mind you need to know which ones to attach to and those not to. By paying attention you can discern between the negative or positive ones as they appear. Let the negative ones pass by, give them no time or focus.

"We Have Different View Points To Understand, and Master"

You are to understand and make peace with the perspective You have been given in life, this is the lesson or task to master. Do not get drawn in or stuck on the outward appearance, for that is the distraction not the point.

"This Is the Way Out"

Do not use, or speak lower energies! Do Not follow, or listen to lower energies! Do not create, or visualize being, and becoming the lower energies!

"If you don't believe, it means, it will not exist for you."

You can create anything in life as long You have not attached yourself to ideas, beliefs or behaviors that say otherwise. What you believe in will become true, be it a Light or dark idea. Choose wisely on your path in life.

"These block the flow of your Light if you attach yourself to them."

Doubt and frustration are feelings that show up in certain moments for each in life. They are not higher energies they are lower. So don't use them or let them take you over, focus Inward in these moments to defeat them.

"You Are Stuck, and Can't See It"

When you accuse another of not listening, it means it is you who is not listening to the messenger in life that is showing you a way out of your perpetual state.

"The Steps Get Better As You Move on"

There is a big difference when your Light brings their plan to you rather than when you try to manifest or create things to come to you in life. The first one is far more of a Wow experience than the latter, and your Light's way will show you how limited you are in your way of creating. Bring their plan to you is the next step, don't get stuck on the latter.

"Confidence is a feeling that comes from within you."

Attaching your Confidence outside of You is an Illusion and Misplaced. You must be Confident in yourself in all areas and all moments high to low in life not just sometimes. The lessons will continue until this has been achieved.

"All Must Be Open"

People from your past will not see you as you are Today. They will only see you as you were when they judged and labeled back then. Those wanting to change a past label will find it difficult, for each involved must be willing and open to change what was, not just You.

The negative energies greatest fear is a Peaceful Warrior.

\---- The End ----

Contact Information :

E-mail: momswisdom1@gmail.com

Website: http://2ask4lucy.blogspot.com

(Back to the TOC)

###

