

Ministry

vs.

Membership

B. G e r a r d F i t e
FIRST EDITION - FIRST PRINTING

Ministry vs. Membership

B. Gerard Fite.

Copyright © 2011 by B. Gerard Fite.

Smashwords Edition

All rights reserved: No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without written permission from the author.

ISBN#: 978-1-56411-578-2

Library of Congress#: 2011923844

To order more copies of this book, contact the publisher at 704.649.3585 or visit the author at: www.smashwords.com/profile/view/BGerardFite

Published in the USA by:  
CB Publishing & Design  
PO Box 560431  
Charlotte NC 28256  
704.649.3585  
cbpublishing-design.com  
info@cbpublishing-design.com

# Forward

In America today the Church is continuing to stray farther away from holiness and the purity of Biblical doctrine. Holiness, which used to be the goal of every believer, has become something that is just talked about and not something that Christian men and women are striving for. Biblical doctrine is being replaced with man-made doctrine and given the same high place in the Church. Discipleship has become programs instead of a way of life. Man is defining what the Church should be instead of the Church (through the Word of God) defining what man should be. Because of these things we are seeing weak churches which are not making an impact for God. We are seeing Christians who are living in religiosity and not the freedom that God intends for His children to have.

I cannot remember a time in modern history when the Church has had a greater need for revival. The truth of God's Word needs to be preached and taught exactly the way it is written in the Bible. We need people of God with boldness to step up and sound the trumpet call for Biblical truth. We need courageous leaders to stand on the Word of God and lead their churches and bring them back to Biblical order. Then we will see power in the Church that will once again storm the gates of hell and set people free.

I believe we see that in the author of "Ministry vs. Membership". Pastor Brian Fite has written this hard hitting book calling the church back to Biblical truth and Biblical order. In this book he boldly addresses the tough issues of our churches today. He challenges the churches to see what the Bible really says about church polity, church order and church doctrine. He addresses holiness and the desire to really be Disciples of Christ, not just talk the talk. He pulls no punches as he searches the scriptures for truth and then applies them to our modern Church today. I am very grateful for his heart to be a servant of our Savior and for his passion to help the churches be all they can be to the glory of God. I'm thankful for his boldness and courage and friendship.

I recommend this book to all church leaders and all those who love the Lord.

Pastor Dale Shields Statesville Road Baptist Church, Charlotte, NC

# Testimonial

Pastor Fite has courageously leaped into the heart of some of the most challenging questions that face the Kingdom of God today. As I read page after page I tried to remain impartial, but found myself being affected heavily by his words. He calls into question motives, mission, purpose, and even the intent of the Church.

I was confronted with the harsh reality that the Church has lost its way, and we don't appear to even know how to rediscover our true path. He gives us an unflinching look into the church of now and tries to explain how WE have gotten so far off track. Mixed messages, Self-perpetuating prisons that believers have to contend with, accepting the fact that what we call ministry today; isn't really Ministry at all.

I am moved by this book, and am concerned for the church. I salute Pastor Fite for daring to confront what others chose to whisper about.

Haven O. Anderson, Senior Pastor Marvin AME Zion Church, Waxhaw, NC

# Acknowledgements

Thank you to God for my grandmothers Francis and Janie, and my mother Mary for igniting a calling that will impact generations. Thank you to God for my wife, Barbara, for being my encouragement. Thank you to God for our children, Jerret (Andrea) and Jeanay (Torey), and our grandchildren. Thank you to God for Blessed Harvest Institute, the vision and vehicle that will impact the world for Christ.

I would also like to thank God for Senora Pierce for her assistance.

# Preface

This project is an endeavor of love for me. During my lifetime, I have labored for over 23 years in ministry, 17 of which I have humbly served in the capacity of Senior Pastor. During my tenure as pastor, I've experienced many awesome events with God and His people. In the same token, I've also encountered some disappointing and discouraging events. I am confident today that all of those proceedings have worked together for my good! And for that, I am grateful! Those dealings have catapulted me into this space...right here in this place, at this very moment, writing to/for you. Today, I am thankful to God, for all He has allowed me to experience. I am a stronger and better individual as a result of those interactions by way of church leaders and members.

I see this as a labor of love, because I love God; therefore, I am concerned about the state and direction of the Christian Church. Furthermore, I am excited about the possibilities of transformation in our understanding, as people of God. It is this transformation that grants believers a chance to know God from the fundamental love that has been shown since the beginning of time. And in the forgiveness that is granted to us morning by morning. It is this love, which offered us a savior so that we could share the message of redemption to a dying world. But clearly, the Church has been distracted by material prosperity and pagan traditions that have no Biblical foundation. We cling to these concepts more than God, our Father.

It is my prayer that as you embark on this journey with me, you will consider who you are in Christ and where you are headed in the things of God. I bid you to evaluate the elements that are major to God, so that you can clearly see where you are in God. This is not an exercise of eternity but an exercise of your current spiritual health and well-being.

It is also my desire that we, as leaders, will re-evaluate our mission in and for God. That we will become more focused on those individuals whom we have been called to cultivate. And that the fundamental mission of our faith, based solely on what the word of God says, will grow to be more apparent in ministry.

In this moment, may God instantly birth a fresh journey for you! It is the aim of this project for lives to become impacted and a new direction toward the kingdom of God reemphasized.

Let's begin together...
Membership vs. Ministry

The war that should not be fought

# Introduction

Bertrand Russell, an English philosopher and 1950 Nobel Prize winner in literature, said, "War does not determine who is right – only who is left." In some regard, the Christian experience is not viewed as a quest (journey) for truth and righteousness in God, but an opportunity to annihilate everyone who has a different view or understanding.

We start our journey here because this work is going to be annihilated by those who only see God as the granter of human wishes. Those who have defined leadership as domination, and those who have been conditioned not to ask questions and challenge anything that does not line up with the humble authority of Christ, which was displayed in personal sacrifice, not in material wealth and recognition.

The most effective method of learning is the ability to present questions. Questions offer an opportunity to analyze all available information in order to determine the best truth based on the information. People seeking to understand and grow have become casualties of interpretation and practices that have abandoned the savior whom they are to represent.

The community of Christ has become distracted with practices and concepts that appear to be minor in God's word, and in the same breath, we minimize the apparent major teachings of our Lord and Savior. Let me give you an idea of what I mean. I was watching a Christian ministry on television and the minister was sharing the blessings that God had promised. Then the minister transitioned to these blessings being available to everyone who called in an offering of a particular amount. I immediately had two issues with this content:

  1. The blessings that the minister referred to were for believers, but no mention was given to salvation or repentance. The presentation never addressed righteousness or faithfulness to God. I felt that the message was to get the offering, instead of compelling people to be saved or strengthened in their relationship with God.

  2. How is it that giving an offering at any church would not have the same effect of blessing? How is it that this minister has a special anointing to bring increase from God and the "ground" in this ministry is fertile and blessed from God? This does not seem to line up with God. The same things that God has done for one God will do for another, if we are obedient to the Will of God.

The Church is the body of Christ. Within the body of Christ, there are infections, diseases, and conflicts, a war that is not a part of God's divine plan. Some will dispute this in light of the fact that the people who have caused and prolonged these elements are probably not believers. To the lost and/or seekers in this world, all they see is the Church, and everyone claiming to be saved, sanctified, and filled with the Holy Spirit. The minister and the members are in battle, instead of working in concert to achieve the mission of God. It is the intention of this book to end this war by annihilating one of these armies.

There cannot be two separate forces working in God's Church. I pray that you recognize that there are people in the Church who benefit from this war; therefore, some people in the Church will continue to fuel the war so that the benefits continue. Churches have been consumed with this war to the point that some have taken prisoners. When we are a part of a church, we should not feel like a POW (Prisoner of Worship), powerless to change a situation that was created by someone else. The POW (Prisoner of Worship) did not come to the Church to be on one side or the other. They were thrown into the war thinking that they were going to grow closer to God, and found out that God was not a part of this war in the Church. The sad truth for the POW (Prisoner of Worship) is that there is hardly anywhere to go. If they find a way to escape or negotiate their release, where do they go to seek God, to learn the Word of God, without falling onto another battlefield?

Please note that there is no intent to dishonor or disrespect anyone by the use of POW. I have the highest regard and respect for the sacrifice and courage of anyone who has endured war of any kind.

Spirits have died in this war. We all come to God as babies, regardless of age or even education. When a person allows God, through Jesus Christ, to save them, they are babies needing to be nurtured and trained in the truth of God. Instead, they are sent to boot camp, by either side, to be conditioned for the war.

Some church leaders are merely confused and have no intention of misleading God's people. To you, I sincerely apologize for the poor examples that you have had to follow. To those leaders who have been enlightened by God, but have not followed the direction of God, how will you reverse the education that you have given God's people? The Church has one Master and one mission; everything else is of Satan. The conclusion of this war will be based on the liberation of the Church. Every believer must be working to liberate someone for the Lord, whether they are in the Church or not.

Before you begin this journey, pray that God will open your mind and heart to show you that there should not be a war, and that you have to help to eliminate one of these armies, so that the Church will be one body with one objective: the restoration of souls in Jesus Christ.

Let's Pray: Heavenly Father, please forgive me for all of my sins. Open my mind and heart to deposit a new vision of your Church. Redefine and establish in me who your Church is. I will work for your cause and not my own. The only agenda I want is that of you, my Heavenly Father. I thank you for all that you are going to show me, in Jesus' name I pray. Amen.

## Chapter I: Foundation – The Ground Rules

Have you ever wondered why relationships seem to become more difficult as they age? The one relationship that should get better with age is the relationship with Jesus Christ, right? However, it is my experience that even this relationship seems to struggle with age. The reason that many believers struggle is that they develop the wrong focus. I have been in church my whole life, my mother made sure of that. As I review much of the time that I have spent in a relationship with Christ, I notice that much of our relationship has been spent going through religious or traditional motions. This was a difficult admission for me. I love God the Father, through Jesus Christ, by the Holy Spirit; however, the truth of it was that I did not know what God wanted from our relationship.

It was easy to recognize what I wanted from our relationship. I wanted all of my prayers answered in a timely fashion (sooner not later). I wanted to go to Heaven and live in happiness with all of my friends and loved ones. I wanted happiness instead of struggle. I had no problem understanding what I wanted from our relationship. I have written this book for all of you who want these same things.

As I studied the Word of God, I found that the Bible did not develop the relationship that I was looking for. The relationship that the Church had prepared me for was not the relationship that God was looking for. There was only one thing that I could do since it is by God's grace that I can have a relationship with God: I would have to change my desires into God's desires. It is my prayer that you will recognize the difference between God's plan and your plan. If you are seeking to know God in a fresh new way, and take a clear look at what is happening to God's Christian Church, this book is for you. If you have no problem with where God's church is in relation to the ministry and teachings of Jesus Christ, then you may find the material in this book different. I pray that you will continue to read and receive a blessing from all that God has given.

If you have been turned off by the Christian Church or you do not understand the mission and ministry of Jesus Christ, please read on with an open mind to see that it is not God the Father, in Jesus Christ, by the Holy Spirit, that is a lie; it is those who have strayed from the mission objectives and become comfortable to the point that the Church is working for Satan. Do you think that this statement is a heresy? Who was the most resistant to the message and ministry of Jesus Christ? Who tested him and ultimately killed him? The Church! Satan's assault is not to capture those who have already been claimed. Satan is out to accuse those who have not been claimed by the kingdom of evil and sin, the believers in Jesus Christ. This is why the Christian Church is so far from the mission of Jesus Christ. Not all believers are in opposition to God, but this book is to enlighten those who are. I spent many years of my relationship with God in opposition to God's purpose for our relationship. Please be open to evaluating your practices and terminology so that you can "walk in the newness of life" Romans 6:4.

You may have assumed that this book is going to address the continuous battle between ministers and members. Actually, this book will focus on members as ministers. The practice of stagnating ministry begins in the individual who does not recognize or accept that God wants to use them in ministry. Much of Church terminology and practice leads people away from the purpose and plan of God.

### First/Second vs. Old/New

A very important switch that will be made is in how the Bible is applied. The connotation of a term will dictate how you read it and apply it. In the application of Old and New most people prefer New to Old. Old is what we discard while New is what people strive for and desire. When these terms are applied to the written Word of God, some people allow the connotation to dictate their application. The Old Testament is to be remembered but not desired, while the New Testament is viewed as replacing the Old Testament. Jesus did not view it this way in Matt 5:17-20:

"Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them. I tell you the truth, until heaven and earth disappear, not the smallest letter, not the least stroke of a pen, will by any means disappear from the Law until everything is accomplished. Anyone who breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but whoever practices and teaches these commands will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I tell you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the Pharisees and the teachers of the law, you will certainly not enter the kingdom of heaven. (NIV)

Jesus did not come to get rid of the Law; He came to fulfill it. Some will teach that upon the resurrection of Christ, the Law was abolished. It is possible that what Jesus meant was that until God restores creation to the intended order, at the second coming, everything remains as it is.

If the Old has been abolished by the New, then how do we learn what is right and wrong? These two testaments comprise the written Word of God. The power of God's Word would be understood if the terminology was changed from Old and New to First and Second. The connotation of First and Second is unity. These testaments would then complement each other. The First Testament is to be viewed as the foundation upon which our relationship with God is built through obedience and sacrifice. Then the Second Testament strengthens us in love and compassion through the Lord and Savior, Jesus the Christ, to follow the example of the disciples who followed Christ. I shall use First and Second in this book, but I will include Old and New in parentheses so that no one will be confused.

God did not convey a disjointed message to humanity. God wanted harmony and unity in The Word. It is time to embrace the fullness of God's message by strengthening our view of the relationship between the First and Second Testaments.

### Creation's Plan vs. Sin's Plan

Since the mission of this work is to liberate the captive, the issue of women in ministry has to be address. The Church tends to limit God in how God desires to use women. The term Genesis means Beginning; therefore, let's look at the plan of God in the Beginning in order to bring some clarity to this issue. I will not be addressing the misinterpreted statements of Paul on this subject: however I encourage you to read a book entitled "Paul, Wives and Women" by Craig Keener. Keener addresses the statements of Paul within their context. This discussion will be limited to the first three chapters of the Bible.

Is it best to model our lives after Sin or God? Of course you answered, 'God'. In reading Genesis Chapter 1, the Bible records that God created all things, and made male and female. The key to understanding God's plan is to read what is recorded in Genesis 1: 26-28.

Then God said, "Let us make man in our image, in our likeness, and let them rule over the fish of the sea and the birds of the air, over the livestock, over all the earth, and over all the creatures that move along the ground. So God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created him; male and female he created them. God blessed them and said to them, "Be fruitful and increase in number; fill the earth and subdue it. Rule over the fish of the sea and the birds of the air and over every living creature that moves on the ground." (NIV)

For most, the misinterpretation states in verse 26, the term 'them'. Some apply 'them' to mean Man (male). However, verse 27 clearly defines 'them' as being 'male and female, He created them.' They, male and female, were given dominion over everything that was created. Well then, that means that in God's plan for creation, male and female have equal authority to rule over the animals, plants, fishes, and birds, not each other. In Genesis Chapter 2, the specific account of the creation in Chapter 1, the female is called 'help'. Please note that one of the possible definitions of this word in Hebrew is 'opposite', or 'mate'. God gave woman equal standing and authority with man.

Sin's plan made drastic modifications to God's plan. In God's plan, man did not have to work the ground to get food, and there was no pain in childbirth. However, when disobedience was chosen, God had to punish the guilty parties. As a result of sin, the male was made accountable for the actions of humanity, to rule over the woman (Genesis 3:16). This is not what God intended. How then do we reconcile these two events in order to understand how people, especially believers, must live today? The answer is as plain as the nose on your face.

Humankind must benefit from the abilities and skills of all people, regardless of gender, color, or nationality. Only when sin has birthed confusion should the curse of Genesis 3 be used to determine the way out. Allow me to use my lovely wife, Barbara, and I as an example. We try to complement and aid each other in everything we do. There are some things that we cannot help each other with, but we try. Only in times of confusion, or disagreements that cannot be resolved, do we use Genesis 3 and I make the decision. There is a responsibility that comes with this application. I am responsible for the total and complete well-being of Barbara and our children. I cannot make her responsible or cause her to suffer as a result of the use of Genesis 3.

God laid out an excellent plan; disobedience massively altered this plan. Believers are not trying to follow the example of disobedience. Believers have been delivered from the bondage of sin, and given power by the Holy Spirit to resist sin. Therefore, why should believers strive to meet the conditions of a fallen nature? Barbara and I want to strive to live as God intended, as equals, sharing the peaks and valleys, benefiting from the skills, knowledge, and abilities of each other. Not lording over the one that God has blessed me with to be my mate. People are servants of God, and out of humility and sacrifice, we serve one another, not out of obligation or force. Let us stop oppressing each other. This oppression is the result of hatred, envy, fear and ignorance. Let love be your perfect goal. This is accomplished through respect and encouragement, so as to motivate everyone to do the best that he or she possibly can with the opportunities that are made available to us.

## Chapter II: The Church vs. Churches

When we joined the Church, the war was fueled. Gasoline was poured on a fire that has been burning for centuries. This fire is being fueled in preaching and teaching without knowledge of the fact that the Church has veered into a war that God did not intend. Joining makes you a member. You become a part of the membership of the Church. This concept has been distorted by misusing Revelation 20:12: "And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works" (KJV). This does not mean that we get in these books by being on a church roll.

A member is a person who has decided to become a part of an organized group of people by meeting the criteria of the group. The foundation for membership is assumed because the Apostle Paul wrote to the churches. Therefore, it is concluded that he wrote to the members of the churches. All of Paul's letters were either instructional or inspirational. Why is it that the Church is so concerned with structure over substance? The mission should not be to organize a Church. The mission is to understand and do what Paul was trying to teach them.

It is clear that Jesus Christ did not establish churches. He states in Matthew 16:18,

"And I say also unto thee, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it" (KJV). Jesus sought to establish the Church, the organism of life and restoration for the creation that had fallen in Genesis 3. The restoration goes back to how God intended creation to live in Genesis 1 – 2. Humankind was not cursed from the beginning. We were in fellowship with God and one another.

Please be mindful that we each must decide whether we are going to live under the sin plan or the creation plan. God did not create us to be in the bondage of laws and rules. Humankind was created to worship God. We are here for God's pleasure. We have latched on to the sin plan by pursuing our own pleasure over God's pleasure. Remember, Christ died and rose to liberate humanity from the bondage of the law back to a relationship with God.

Some would say that Jesus did start with twelve members. Did He? It is convenient to believe that the twelve disciples were His first members. Never did Jesus call these twelve members. The Church that Jesus established is a force, a labor force, executing His mission on earth as it is in heaven. The twelve were called disciples. A disciple is one who is being prepared for ministry, a student who is being prepared for service. These disciples were to carry on the mission that Jesus started.

So where did the division come from? When did ministry and membership get separated? How can I be a member of the Church, but not be a minister of the Church? This battle is being waged within Christians daily, within congregations weekly, within denominations and associations annually. Even in spiritual conferences and workshops, this war is being fought.

In traditional settings, we are taught that the ministers are different from members. One cannot exist without the other. So the war wages on, Members vs. Ministers. This is the war that God never intended to be fought. This war is fought on two battlefields:

1) Within the Church

2) Within the believer.

In First Corinthians 3, the Apostle Paul is striving to resolve confusion in the Church of Corinth. The focus of the 3rd chapter is that there should be no division among you. Their division was primarily over gifts and baptism. If we take a candid look at the division within the Body of Christ today, we will find the same situation. Claims of: my gift is better than your gift, one gift is more important than another, and so on. If Jesus is Lord of the Christian Church and church leaders are hearing from the same Lord, then how is it that so many varying and contradicting messages are being received? Is God confused or the Church?

Some of the confusion in the Church can be resolved by a clear look at scripture. The issue is that some believers want to believe in what makes them comfortable or special, so they will fight to maintain teachings that are not supported by scripture. For example:

Speaking in Tongues – Let me clearly and plainly state that I believe in the manifestation of tongues as documented in Acts 2. The issue is the vain babbling that we accept as tongues today. In Acts 2:8, it is clear that the manifestation here is not in the tongue. The tongue was unknown to the speaker, but it was known to the hearer. They heard it in their own language. By the Holy Spirit, God used these believers to share the Gospel of Jesus Christ in multiple languages. Not as proof that they had the Holy Spirit, but to convey the Gospel. Language is not a barrier for the Holy Spirit.

Baptism – Some churches baptize infants. Why? Most say that they are covering the innocent. Why do the innocent need to be covered? God will redeem the innocent. Baptism is an external evidence of an internal change. When a person makes a confession unto salvation, they are instructed to be baptized. No one else can be baptized. Only those who make their own confession to be saved can be baptized.

I am not going to belabor you with all of the contradictions that the Church has created due to doctrines and false teachings. Believers must learn to read the Bible for what it says, not what we want to believe. Some people are so opposed to the power and presence of the Holy Spirit that they do not want to believe that God wants to manifest active power through believers. But there are others who are so enamored by the Holy Spirit that any babbling is considered the power and presence of God.

## Chapter III: Humility vs. Recognition

It is a necessity for some to keep the war going by motivating members with trophies and plaques as a show of their "work for God", when in reality, these are the "works of men". Let us take a look at the traditional misdirection in the Church. Members are conditioned, trained to focus on being recognized.

The Church of Jesus Christ is to be humble and allow God to exalt. 1 Peter 5:6 shows that believers are to work for (serve) God out of love and thanksgiving for the gift of eternal life that has been given through Jesus Christ. The only motivation that a believer needs is access to the Tree of Life, because this access was taken from humankind at the fall. Jesus Christ offers us access to the Tree of Life if we confess and believe. If this does not motivate you to work while it is day, nothing else will. Afterwards, the prize for believers is in the press towards their higher calling.

But calling is for the minister. Most believers have been conditioned to believe that those people are different with a higher calling. WOW! What Paul was saying is that we have to pursue greater in God. The offering of our lives is a continual sacrifice that becomes deeper and more intimate as we learn more about God. As we know more, we can give more.

In order to maintain his focus, the Apostle Paul states in Philippians 3 that he has not arrived, but Christ has; therefore, his focus was on Christ to press for the mark for the prize of the higher calling. This press caused him to endure and maintain, refusing to take support from the Church of Corinth because they did not want to give it. When did the sole mission of the Church become the generation of money? When every activity of the Church is centered on money, the instructions of Jesus are lost. As I mentioned earlier, the disciples were instructed not to be concerned about provisions. Jesus instructed the disciples to seek first the Kingdom of God. So why is it that the minister today is so concerned about provisions? Members are motivated by recognition, while ministers are motivated by money. These preoccupations have continued the misdirection of the Church.

Recognition is such a powerful influence for members because it is our way to convince ourselves that we are successful for God, which fuels our need to be rewarded for any little thing that remotely resembles serving God. The pitiful thing is that church leaders have exploited our fundamental need to be appreciated in order to turn believers into money generators instead of God's servants.

James 4:6 states that God resists the proud and gives grace to the humble. Hopefully, grace is an understood term. Grace is God's willingness to forgive instead of punish. The term that we must address is 'proud'. James clearly wants his readers to be humble and not proud. Proud is defined as feeling pleasurable satisfaction over an act, possession, quality or relationship by which one measures one's stature or self-worth. Quite a few people will read this definition and think that pride, or being proud, is a good thing. Actually, some of us try to use pride as a motivator.

Allow me the opportunity to apply the components of this definition to God, and I think that you will understand the issue that God has with the proud.

Pleasurable satisfaction over:

An act – if all things are done according to God's plan, then which acts can we take credit for? If everything that I do correctly is because of my relationship with God, then what can I be proud for?

Possession – if the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, what do I possess? If all things were made by God and all humans have done is discovered ways to use what God has made, and the intellect to use these resources is only possible because of God, then what can I be proud of?

Quality – humankind was made in the image of God. Therefore, all of our righteousness is because of God. Even when we are righteous, it is because of God. Every acceptable characteristic is God's. Therefore, there is not a quality in me that I would want to be proud of.

Relationship – for believers, the best and most pleasurable relationship that we have is with Jesus the Christ. This relationship was established out of the love and forgiveness of God, and based on no merit of my own. We are not saved because of any goodness of our own. We are saved because of the love of God. What do I have to be proud of?

Each of the elements that the definition uses as a source of pride solely belongs to God; therefore, the best that I can do is be thankful. I am not saying that believers should not feel good about themselves. I am saying that we must never attempt to feel proud of what God has done. Either I get the credit or God gets the glory. I cannot take the credit, and then thank God for what has been done.

First Thessalonians 5:18 tells us, "in all things give thanks for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you." God desires for humans to be able and willing to recognize that we are because God is. In this mindset, we should strive to be thankful for all that God is and has planned for my life. Thankfulness is generated out of humility, not pride.

It is not God's desire for people to be motivated based on recognition, because in order to be recognized, someone has to know what has been achieved. Jesus teaches that we should be striving to be fruitful. We look for the exploration of salvation's power that was experienced on the Day of Pentecost, but this kind of move can only occur in an environment of humility that generates thanksgiving. There was no contest or quota to motivate these disciples, just a willingness to be used by God, even if it meant their lives.
Chapter IV: Soul Saving vs. Fundraising

The Church has become distracted by money. Members give, and Ministers use. Jesus instructed the disciples in Luke 10:4, "Carry neither purse, nor scrip, nor shoes: and salute no man by the way" (KJV). Within this chapter, we find Jesus sending the trainees out on an exercise. His instructions are clear: do not be distracted by money, or recognition; do the work of ministry for the laborer is worthy of hire (Luke 10:7). How did the Church become preoccupied with money? The age-old belief that it takes money in order to do ministry is just not the case.

If eighty percent (80%) of the Church's time is spent trying to generate money for ministry, when is there time for ministry? The instruction of Jesus in Luke 10 is clear: the needs of the minister will be met through ministry. True ministry will generate the resource to do even greater works. Just do the work that you have been sent to do. The more ministers the Church has, the more ministry that can be done.

Every Christian is a disciple. This correlation is very easy to make. Acts 11:26 states, "And when he had found him, he brought him unto Antioch. And it came to pass, that a whole year they assembled themselves with the Church, and taught much people. And the disciples were called Christians first in Antioch" (KJV). The disciples were called 'Christians'. A disciple is being trained for ministry (service); therefore, a disciple will become a minister (trained servant). A member is part of an organized group of people by meeting established criteria. Therefore, a member will never become a minister without some change of direction.

The objective to add members to the Church is all wrong. Jesus started with twelve disciples; this became seventy or seventy-two (depending on which Bible translation you use), and this became one hundred and twenty by the day of Pentecost (Acts 1:15) - no members, just ministers in training (Disciples). The purpose of the Church that Jesus established is to "make disciples" not members. The war will continue until the Church realizes there should not be any members.

In Luke 10:2, Jesus tells us the biggest problem that the Church would have in fulfilling the mission. "Therefore said he unto them, the harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few: pray therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers into his harvest" (KJV). The laborers are few. There will not be enough workers to reap the harvest of souls that desire the love of God. To serve is ministry; therefore, I must be a minister in order to do ministry.

Officers are elected. Boards govern and rule over segments of the Church. The Pastor is the vehicle of the vision and work of God, and members receive the Word and support the ministries of the Church. Now who does the actual ministry of the Church? That select group of people who acknowledge their call to ministry? How does this model cause the war that I am addressing? In order to end this war, there cannot be any more members in God's Church, just Disciples and Ministers, trainees and prepared servants, respectively.

The Pastor is the visionary who has the responsibility to lead the believers in the commission of God through Jesus Christ, to "Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit" Matthew 28:19 (NRSV). The Pastor has the responsibility to train. Paul gives us a great verse that may be able to help us here. Ephesians 4:11 states, "And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers" (KJV). Within the structure of the verse, it would have been grammatically consistent for Paul to write, "and some teachers", but that is not what we have. It appears that Paul could be trying to tie pastor and teacher together. Using this same approach, look at Matthew 5-7, The Sermon on the Mount; the sermon that Jesus delivered is introduced by Matthew, stating in chapter 5 verse 2: "And he opened his mouth, and taught them, saying" (KJV). To Jesus, it appears that preaching was teaching. This leads me to believe that Jesus taught disciples so that they could grow to do ministry. If a Pastor preaches to keep the attention or to add members to the organization, is the Pastor leading you to become a laborer to reap the harvest of souls that God promised?

Moses administered (ministered) over the people day after day. The people just stood around and observed. They only went to Moses when they needed ministry. Exodus 18 documents a visit from his father-in-law, Jethro. Jethro observed as Moses ministered to the people. At the end of the day, Jethro said to Moses, "what you are doing is not good" (Exodus 18:17). Jethro advised Moses to use the people to aid him in ministry. A Pastor cannot, and should not do everything.

Romans 12:4 states, "For as we have many members in one body, and all members have not the same office" (KJV). Paul says members; what does he mean? In the Second (New) Testament, generally, when Paul uses the word member, he means parts. Each believer (disciple) can have a different ministry (a different form or type of service). Paul is just clarifying to the Church in Rome that all of the believers do not have to function the same way in order to serve God. A Pastor must make a conscious decision to make every sermon a lesson that leads the unbelievers to become believers, and the believers to grow in their discipleship (ministry).

Members are not ready for this kind of ministry because they joined an organization, and thus, the war begins. The member is at war within, because they did not know that God was going to require them to become a disciple (minister). The war is also waged with the Pastor, because some members believe that this is not the direction that the organization should go.

Pastor, prepare yourself to grow ministers instead of members. Please do not be so narrow as to believe that the only ministry is preaching. Anything that aids in spreading and showing the love of God through Jesus Christ by the Holy Spirit is ministry. Paul gives the framework to define the broad scope of ministry through the spiritual gifts that are defined in 1 Corinthians 12 and 14.

The qualifications for a minister are stated in Acts 6:3: "Therefore, friends, select from among yourselves seven men of good standing, full of the Spirit and of wisdom, whom we may appoint to this task" (NRSV). In this context, the Apostles were seeking to get seven people to wait tables for the widows. They called the community of disciples together and had them to choose based on three criteria, evidence of the Spirit, wisdom, and good character. Let me clarify this Biblically.

Evidence of the Spirit would mean a manifestation of the Holy Spirit in the believer. This is not restricted to speaking in tongues. The Second (New) Testament does not state that a believer must evidence the power of the Spirit by speaking in tongues. Acts 2 states that they spoke in the tongues of other nations, and those that had come to see what was happening heard the Word of God in their own language. Paul speaks of tongues also, and is plain in stating that tongues are not for the building up of the entire body, just the individual, unless there is an interpretation. Paul continues by stating that the interpreter will be a different person, or else there is no validity to the manifestation. There is much more to understand about spiritual gifts, but that is not the focus of this book.

Wisdom is the discernment of Godly things. A minister must be "on the same page" with God. Wisdom does not come with age and has nothing to do with common sense.

James 1:5 states, "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him" (KJV). Wisdom is given from God, not earned by age or experience.

Good character is accomplished by evidence of the fruits of the Spirit. Galatians 5:22-23 states, "But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law" (KJV). The minister will not be perfect, but trying the best they can to live as God would have them to, by the guidance of the Holy Spirit.

What is the reason that churches have boards and officers, instead of ministries and ministers? Boards create division and competition. In the process of electing officers, there must be winners and losers. This is not healthy in the body of Christ. Ministers are called by God. In this process, the minister is accountable to God, but the officer is accountable to the people in the organization. If you want hardworking people in your church, have them receive their direction and calling from God, not the membership. Have you ever wondered why the Church operates like the government when the Church has the Bible to operate by, but the government does not?

With everyone striving toward their ministry, a Pastor can provide the direction and oversight that the Bible intended for the shepherd, instead of trying to be everything for everybody. Some ministers have been forced into pastoral ministry because the Church is not open to understanding the importance of other ministries; therefore, ministers cannot get the support that they need to do the work that God has for them.

The element that is necessary to motivate people to abandon elections and respond to calling - and cause ministers to serve out of a love for God, not a paycheck - is humility. Jesus states so plainly that the greatest will be the servant, the one who can wash someone else's feet (Matthew 23:11-12, John 13:14-17). I must take this one step further. Jesus states in John 13:17 that if you know these things, you will be happy doing them. Humility should bless the believer, but the Church is afraid to be humble, too worried that someone is going to take advantage of someone else. This is a sad conclusion for the salvation of God through Jesus Christ. If only saved people can be ministers in God's house, why should anyone worry about leadership being out of the will of God if honoring God is the objective of service in ministry?

With that stated, the issue of resources must be addressed. There must be someone to provide the monetary resources for ministry. Paul tells the Corinthian church in 1 Corinthians 9 that they are responsible to care for the ministers, but if they do not, then he will care for himself. The Church should not struggle to support ministers. The Church also should not resist supporting ministers. This decision should be made based on resources. The tithe was to care for the ministers, not the ministry. Numbers 18:21-32 teaches that the tithe is given to the ministers who care for the tabernacle of the congregation, and that the minister is to return a tenth of the tithe to the Lord. The application of this text is not simple in a monetary system. Money is not burnt up to be given to the Lord; therefore, what should be done with the money that the minister is to give to the Lord? Should it be deposited in an account, never to be used? I teach that tithes are to support ministers, and provide the resources for ministry. The point is that ministers should not be bound to find and work jobs; the resources should come from their ministry work. The minister should not compel people to provide for them, but be willing to work when the people cannot or will not provide.

Philippians 4:10-14 is always applied in a general sense, but there is a powerful message in the specific message of the text. The Church of Philippi was faithful in their care for Paul and Paul is expressing his appreciation for the determination to be a blessing to him. Paul is stating to them that he is not speaking out of need. He has learned to be content with whatever he has. When Paul says, "I can do all things", he means that he can be hungry or well fed, rich or poor. Ministers must have the same faith in God's provision. This mindset makes the compensation of ministers easier to address. When the minister becomes the primary focus of resources, instead of the ministry, people end up with a misconception of the meaning of ministry and minister.

## Chapter V: Worship Sanctuary vs. Prison Camp

If the Gospel, Salvation, and the Holy Spirit are all free, then why are we forced to attend worship? The only reason that membership in a church is required is so the church knows how many people can be depended on, and asked to give. Let's look at the Church in a different way for a minute. A church has more teachers than they can use, why not allow some of them to go teach at a church that does not have enough teachers? They should not have to change membership because they are teaching the same Gospel message. The issues that arise have to do with offerings, tithes and numbers. I thought that we were working to reap God's harvest (Luke 10:2). What difference does it make that I am a member of a particular church when I am part of the kingdom of God? The Church has become a prison camp, confining people so that the numbers look good. But good to whom, other people? God does not care. God is looking for a Church, the believers as one collective body.

People are made to feel guilty if they feel that God wants them to worship some place else or in another fashion. Each person is accountable to God for his or her service. Worship must be open enough that the visitor feels welcome to be a part and the ministers are there because they are functioning and being blessed. The key here is growth. If a person is not growing and maturing in God, then what is the purpose?

No prisoner is happy. Every prisoner is seeking to be freed. When I was a teenager, we had a saying: "If you love someone, set them free. If they return it's real, but if not, it was not meant to be." If the Church wants truly committed people, allow them the freedom to leave without hard feelings and threats. If they stay, it's real, but if not, it was not meant to be.

The prisoner is not given any options, just told to follow instructions or be called unfaithful, or a demon of Satan. Whatever happened to "where the spirit of the Lord is there is liberty" (2 Corinthians 3:17)? Do you feel liberated in your church? There are no fences, or bars on this prison. People are in prison in their mind, paying money that they do not agree with, but God loves a cheerful giver (2 Corinthians 9:7). They are doing things without understanding (2 Peter 2:1-22). Proverbs 4:7 teaches, "... in all your getting, get understanding." Why participate in worship and complain about it? Why give and groan? Where is the voice of the disciple to understand the vision (purpose and plan) of the ministry that they had committed to work with and for? The responsibility for change is on everyone who recognizes that a change is necessary.

Jesus' view of service (ministry) is different. Let's look at Matthew 11:28-30:

"Come to Me, all who are weary and heavy-laden, and I will give you rest. "Take My yoke upon you, and learn from Me, for I am gentle and humble in heart; and you shall find rest for your souls. "For My yoke is easy, and My load is light." (NAS)

Jesus says, "come", but who should come? Those who are weary and heavy-laden. The King James Version uses the word 'laborer'. The parallel here is that you cannot get tired unless you do some work. This is a call for workers (ministers) to get rest. Yes, believers are under Christ's control, but the yoke is easy and the burden is light. Service to God through Jesus Christ is like this because Christ is gentle and humble. Christ-like leadership will teach you, not demand blind faith all of the time. Christ-like leadership will not over-burden you but share in the load.

I say to the POW's (Prisoners of Worship), press towards your calling, not towards membership. Your calling will bring liberty because you will be a servant of God in Christ Jesus and you will receive more love than ever before.

The prophet Micah spoke the word of God, telling the people that they should beware of prophets and teachers who are only concerned about money (Micah 2-3). The prison camp has taken on a new form of bondage. The new bondage is to imprison you by your desires. Whatever you want, someone claims to be able to show you how to get it, but what will it cost you in return? Churches want to see your W-2 and pay stubs, but promise to hold the answer to financial prosperity. If someone has the answer to financial prosperity, then why do they need a W-2 or pay stub? Why not challenge these teachers to have faith in the God of prosperity instead of the W-2 and pay stub?

God does not intend for everyone to be rich. What God will do is provide believers with resources to insure that ministry will have what it needs, and based on faithfulness, you will receive extra from the Lord. A quick study of God's monetary cycle will show you what I mean. Leviticus 25:8-55 teaches about the Year of Jubilee. The Year of Jubilee is the fiftieth year. It follows the Year of Atonement, which is the forty-ninth year. Once everyone has atoned, personally and as a nation, during the Year of Atonement, Jubilee can come. According to Leviticus 25:13, "'In this Year of Jubilee everyone is to return to his own property" (NIV). God gave everyone in Israel an inheritance, except the Levites. The Levites were blessed with land to live on and keep their flocks, but they were not given any territorial possession. This is why the Levites were blessed with the tithe. In the Year of Jubilee - whether lost, sold, or stolen - everything went back to the family that inherited it from God. Jubilee is not intended for increase; it is intended to keep balance in society so that everyone has an opportunity to start over.

Prosperity in God is well-being and comfort, not greed and materialism. The modern teachings on prosperity have catered to the greed and earthly desires of people and created a new form of POW. These prisoners must get free by the renewing of their mind. Romans 12 teaches that believers cannot be conformed to the world, but they should be transformed by the renewing of the mind. Free your mind and find the liberty of God. There is an invisible barrier that keeps people in membership. They are being taught that bondage is freedom, because every church is basically the same. This is just not true. If a church desires you to mature with them, they should be willing to educate you about their beliefs and business practices before you make a commitment. Your decision should not be for membership; it should be to grow your ministry (service) through that fellowship of believers.

The Prisoner of Worship has another prison to break out of; this is the prison of praise. The Bible does not teach us a specific mode or style of worship. The Church is teaching such foolishness as you must speak in tongue, or shout a certain way, or not shout at all. 1 Corinthians 12:8-11 states:

To one there is given through the Spirit the message of wisdom, to another the message of knowledge by means of the same Spirit, to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healing by that one Spirit, to another miraculous powers, to another prophecy, to another distinguishing between spirits, to another speaking in different kinds of tongues, and to still another the interpretation of tongues. All these are the work of one and the same Spirit, and he gives them to each one, just as he determines. (NIV)

The activities and manifestations of the Holy Spirit are to be determined by the Holy Spirit. It is sensationalism to cause people to be excited without foundation. Acts 2:4 states that the disciples spoke in other languages, as the Spirit gave them the ability. In order to understand this tongue, we must look at the interpretation. People from many other nations heard the noise and came to the room to see what was going on; each of them heard the Gospel in their own language. The tongue spoken in Acts 2 was a foreign language. It was like the Spirit using someone to speak Spanish, who does not have the ability to do so.

For those who still miss what the Bible says here, let's go one step further. Acts 2:44-46 states that those who believed, were led by the Spirit to sell their possessions and hold all things in common; this is communal living. If Acts 2 is the literal foundation for the Second (New) Testament Church, then why aren't believers taught to hold all things in common and just serve God? There is nothing wrong with speaking in tongues, or not speaking in tongues. Every believer must yield to the desire of the Holy Spirit from God. So many have been forced to either do or not do. The mission of the Church is liberty and freedom, to follow the Holy Spirit of God where He wants to take us.

Praise in thanksgiving and joy is not just for what God has done, and is doing, but above all, for who God is. God deserves praise for being God. Habakkuk 2:20 states that the LORD is in his holy temple: let all the earth keep silence before him. While Habakkuk 3:3 states that God came from Teman, and the Holy One from mount Paran. Selah. His glory covered the heavens, and the earth was full of his praise. Was Habakkak confused or is the Church confused? How your praise is offered is between you and God. Just do not quench the Spirit; in freedom, go with the Spirit into the praise that God is worthy of.

Jesus reads Isaiah 61 in Luke 4:18-19, that the Spirit brings liberty. Jesus came to minister the will and love of God to creation. He did not come to restrict believers into a mold of conformity. He came to liberate so that each believer could become who God intends for him or her to be; some shouting, some in silence, some prophesying and some speaking in tongues. We are part of the same body, but the body has many parts.

There are so many prisoners in this battle between ministry and membership. To all of the believers who have been imprisoned for following the Word and/or Spirit of God, please know that the Spirit of the Lord brings liberty. The battle will be over when you are free to worship and serve God as the Spirit leads you.

## Chapter VI: Ephesians 4:11 vs. Reverend

What is a Reverend? Clergy all over the world are identified by this title and it has always baffled me. One of the disciples at our church asked me to explain the title 'Reverend' to her. I started by looking the term up in a dictionary. I was amazed at what I found. According to The World Book Dictionary, as an adjective, Reverend is "one that is worthy of great respect." As a noun, Reverend is "having to do with or characteristic of clergyperson." Dictionary.com adds that it is one who is due reverence. I did not understand how this word could characterize clergy, which had nothing to do with the root word. 'Reverend' has its origin in the same root word as 'reverence' or 'revere'. Taken from the Latin word reverendus, the root of this word, 'revere', applies to regarding with respect tinged with awe. The title 'Reverend' is to describe one who is due reverence. This means that every time the title Reverend is used to address a person, they are given reverence. This seems to go against what the Bible teaches. Reverence and honor are due to God through Christ Jesus by the Holy Spirit. Clergy are ministers, and are the workers that God uses to execute the mission of deliverance on earth. Ministers are not due any reverence for responding to the call of God. Just like the title 'Father' is not to be given to anyone but God, so is the same with reverence; it is given only to God.

The continued misuse of these titles has caused the Church to overemphasize the people who function in certain ministry capacities. The Church is not able to see the priesthood of believers that Peter taught because there are too many levels to ministry. Every believer is a minister. This is why God's ministers should be addressed according to Ephesians 4:11. The title must fit the occupation. This change in terminology would allow ministers to be identified by their calling and be addressed based on their calling. A general title will cause people to assume that one person is to carry out everything for God. This has fueled the war, in that in order to have clergy, there must be someone that they are to be clergy for. In the kingdom of God, every believer is a priest. Therefore, if it is ridiculous to address every believer as Reverend, then it is ridiculous to address any believer as Reverend.

Ministers should be addressed based on their ministry. This allows everyone in the fellowship to know who you are in God, and the expectations that can be placed on you as a minister of God. You do not go to a dentist for a heart transplant, nor should you expect a Pastor to evangelize. The atmosphere of the Church must be opened so that the members see, feel, and know that it is alright and expected for them to become ministers (servants) for Jesus Christ. A change in terminology will aid in this transition. This would deliver a powerful blow to Satan as the believers accept and pursue the specific ministry that God has for them. Church leadership that is threatened by everyone being equal in God is not ready to lead the Church to live with Christ. Jesus came to explain to the religious leaders that God was not impressed that they had structured everything and made it so convenient for people to serve God without having a personal relationship with God. Every believer is responsible for his or her personal relationship, to grow and develop into mighty people for God. This cannot be accomplished if the five folds of ministry are not sought.

It is frightening that some who recognize the five-fold ministry state that they have all five gifts. This is dangerous and misinformed; dangerous in that a person who embodies all five-ministry gifts does not need anyone to complement them. Within themselves, they have all that God has to offer. They can minister to anyone, any place, at any time. The first Apostle of Jesus could not even do this all of the time. How do these spiritually well-endowed believers receive teaching? Their response will be that their teachings come from the Holy Spirit. Only Jesus the Christ was ministered to in the Spirit. Human beings in the Bible have occasion to need someone to minister to them, because they missed some things from God. This is misinformed because God does not just send people to receive; people are also sent to give. A minister will feed and be fed. When are the spiritually endowed fed? Ministry is intended to be complementary. The gifts of those around you are meant to complement you and compensate for you in weakness.

The Book of Acts states that the believers shared all things and followed the Apostle's teaching, but the Apostle Paul asked for the people to pray for him. If Paul is an example for the spiritually well-endowed, then why does he need a traveling companion? In Acts, Paul refuses to take Mark with him because Mark has deserted him once already. He chooses Silas and is willing to go to prison with him, and depend on Silas' relationship with God to the point of praying and worshipping with him from jail. Paul knew that he could not depend on Mark, so he refused to travel with him. When a person becomes so mighty that they do not need to listen to anyone, they stand the chance of sinning against God. Look at David as he abused his position as king to obtain what he wanted; it took the Prophet Nathan to minister the truth to him so that he could repent. Do not be afraid to receive a message from anyone. If your heart is focused on God, then you will receive discernment.

## Chapter VII: Whole Armor vs. Bodyguards

Why does a believer need armor if he or she is not intended to go into the battle?

Many church members have hired bodyguards to protect them from any attack. This is why some are so reliant on Pastors to pray for and with them. This is why some pastors cannot pursue God's purpose for their ministry because they have been hired as bodyguards. Good bodyguards never allow anything to happen to the people that they are to protect. Yes, a shepherd is responsible for the protection of the sheep, but what is missed is that God's plan is that the sheep be trained so that the fold can grow and they can nurture other sheep. Ephesians 4:12 states to prepare God's people for works of service, so that the body of Christ may be built up. God intends for the believer to grow and become skilled in their ministry gifts, not to graze in field after field depending on the never-ending protection of the shepherd. Sheep are to be taught so that they will not fall for every statement of doctrine that is taught by crafty people. Ephesians 4:14.

Let me clearly state that no one is perfect except Jesus the Christ. This eternal truth does not change the equally important truth that all believers must strive to be the best that they can be. Is the Church preparing you for battle or just teaching you to depend on your bodyguard? In Paul's transitional statements leading into the teachings on the Armor of God, we find him saying in Ephesians 6:10, "Finally, be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power." Be Strong. This sounds to me like Paul wanted the believers to exercise their spiritual anointing so that they would become stronger in order to stand against Satan, only relying on the Shepherd Jesus Christ.

Ephesians 6:12 states, "For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms."

If the devil could cause rebellion in heaven, why would we close our eyes to the attack on the believers through the Church? We do not struggle against flesh and blood; the battle is against spiritual forces of evil. The Second (New) Testament is clear that the devil is not to be rebuked, but resisted. Believers rebuke the devil because they do not want to stand and fight. James 4:7 states, "Submit yourselves, then, to God." Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.

Resisting is going to take patience and endurance. The believer is going to have to withstand the attack, not yielding to the offense of the devil. The Armor of God is given so that the believer can stand and resist.

Ephesians 6:13 states, "Therefore put on the full armor of God, so that when the day of evil comes, you may be able to stand your ground, and after you have done everything, to stand."

Having done everything, stand with the Armor of God, not a partial or incomplete set, with the full (whole) Armor of God. Every time we abandon a characteristic of the armor, we will be defenseless against the devil.

  1. Belt of Truth – a belt is used to keep the pants secure so that they will not fall down. If the pants should fall down, not only are you embarrassed, but also your mobility is hindered. Truth serves the same purpose for believers. It secures your life so that you are mobile and trustworthy to God, and have no reason to be embarrassed. However, when believers abandon truth, you are immobilized and embarrassed when it is discovered that your pants have fallen down. In the Bible, sin is often depicted by nakedness. In the garden, after they had sinned, they hid because they were naked. Generally, nakedness causes people to be ashamed. People should have the same response to sin.

  2. Breastplate of Righteousness – a breastplate is used to protect the vital organs of the chest and stomach area. It is only necessary if an attack is imminent. Righteousness is the protection for the vital organs of a believer's relationship with God. God has established righteousness in the law and life of Jesus Christ. When a believer does not strive to be righteous, their relationship with God is jeopardized and they are vulnerable to the attack of the devil. A wound in the chest or stomach area can be fatal; therefore, it is imperative that believers strive to maintain righteous living so that they are protected from otherwise fatal blows from the devil. A fatal blow can terminate your relationship with God.

  3. Boots of Readiness in the Gospel of Peace – the feet are critical to mobility. Although mobility is not impossible without feet, assistance is necessary. Ministry is impossible without readiness in the Gospel. Believers are encouraged to study to show themselves approved, rightly interpreting the Word of Truth. Ministry is the mobilization of God's people. Believers cannot serve God without readiness in the Gospel. Many believers cannot leave the fort because they have no boots. Reinforcements are stuck and cannot enter the battle because their feet are not covered.

  4. Shield of Faith – a shield is used to protect from airborne weapons, be it darts, arrows, or knives, or even bullets. The use of a shield protects the integrity of the breastplate and helmet. With a shield, the other defenses will endure longer. Faith is the foundation or substance of the invisible and unknown. Faith protects the integrity of Righteousness and Salvation. Without Faith, Righteousness and Salvation must withstand the attacks of the devil by themselves. However, with Faith, Righteousness and Salvation may never be tested by the devil because Faith withstood every attack. Believers must trust faith to satisfy God, for without faith, it is impossible to please God (Hebrews 11:6). If God is not pleased, all is lost and the devil will eventually wear down the believer.

  5. Helmet of Salvation – the head is also a vital organ; therefore, the helmet is essential to the longevity of the soldier. Salvation is essential to the longevity of believers. Matthew 10:32-33 states, "Whoever acknowledges me before men, I will also acknowledge him before my Father in heaven. But whoever disowns me before men, I will disown him before my Father in heaven." To enter battle without a helmet is a death wish. Some would conclude that this person is a fool. To stand against the devil without Salvation is a death wish, and some would conclude that this person is a fool. Only fools act like they are fighting the devil when they are really following him.

  6. Sword of the Spirit – each piece of armor has been for defensive purposes; however, soldiers of God are to be prepared to launch offensive attacks against the devil. If an army relies solely on defense, eventually, the defenses will be battered and useless. Offense will force the enemy to retreat. The first of the two offensive weapons that the believer has is a sword. A sword can be used defensively, but as an offensive weapon, it wounds and kills. The Holy Spirit of God gives believers offensive power to wound and kill the devil. Paul clarifies this spiritual power by stating that it is the Word of God. Believers have offensive power in the Word of God. Jesus conveys that He is the blow that will be landed for eternity against the devil. Matthew 10:34 states, "Do not suppose that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I did not come to bring peace, but a sword." Speak the Word to defeat the devil. Trust in the promises of God and resist the devil, knowing that God is true to the Word. Believers are mobilized against the devil by the power of the Word. With the feet covered with readiness, the believer can march against the devil and defeat every attack.

  7. Pray – Paul does not associate this final tool with a piece of armor, but let's look at its offensive power. Paul instructs the believers to pray for everybody, but especially each other. Prayer must be the foundation that the battle is fought on. The devil attacks in so many ways, dividing the body of Christ against itself through denominations and doctrines. Prayer is the uniting force that will overcome the divisions of the devil. Pray that leadership will be fearless and bold to stand for the things that are Godly. Paul knew that he had to stand against every attack of the devil. Leadership must recognize that doctrinal divisions have weakened the Army of Christ. The Church must increase prayer exponentially if we are going to undo all that the devil has planted in the Church. It is impossible to fight an enemy that has infiltrated your ranks and has control of leaders at every level. Prayer will mobilize God's ministers to wage the war to reclaim the Church for Christ.

It is easy to say that you have the Armor of God, but you have no intention of fighting. You have hired a bodyguard but you are walking around in armor. No one in the battle is paying you any attention, especially the enemy, because he knows that you are harmless and unprepared for the war that is going on.

## Chapter VIII: Temples vs. Buildings

Form follows function. This is the approach in building anything. You must know what you intend to do before you know what to build. In order to grasp this section; allow me to back up one step. Before the function can be determined, the Church must have already identified their primary ministry. Every Church I know has a building fund; however, many of them have no plans to build anything. Why should people be conditioned to support things that have no direction or intention?

Buildings serve a functional purpose; that is, to shelter people from the elements of wind, rain, and temperature. I pray that most, if not all, of the church buildings that have been erected have been designed with ministry in mind. But let us stay focused and clear that the primary reason for any building is shelter. Comfort is the next consideration. Be mindful that there is a difference between a need and a want. Needs sustain life, and everything else is a want. This is where the Church has gone too far. Let me say that I agree that God deserves the best, but are buildings being erected with God in mind or people?

The Bible has the Tabernacle and the Temple. The First (Old) Testament teaches that God instructed Moses to build the Tabernacle. According to Nelson's Illustrated Bible Dictionary (1986), the Tabernacle was "the tent which served as a place of worship for the nation of Israel during their early history." The chief characteristic of the Tabernacle is that it was portable. Israel had to take it with them wherever they went; it was God's designated place of worship. In the Second (New) Testament, the Bible declares that the Word became flesh and "tabernacled" among us (Greek word rendered as "dwelt" in the NKJV in John 1:14 - Nelson's Illustrated Bible Dictionary (1986)). With Christ, worship should occur within you as you take God with you.

The Temple is God's permanent place of worship for Israel. Once the children of Israel were in the Promised Land, God instructed David to obtain the materials and Solomon to build the Temple. Paul uses the term to enlighten the Corinthian Church. I pray that the Church today can be enlightened. 1 Corinthians 3:16 says, "Don't you know that you yourselves are God's temple and that God's Spirit lives in you?" (NIV). You are God's Temple. Not the building that is used for worship but you, your body, your life. God has designated you and me as Temples, the place where worship is to continually take place.

Today, life is not a Temple to God. People have been trained to "go" to worship, not to "be" worship. God desires for people to be worship, a continual worshipper. Not in a building, but that God is worshipped through the being and lifestyle of a person. Paul continues by stating, in the next verse, the importance of keeping the Temple Holy and clean for God. 1 Corinthians 3:17 states, "If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him; for God's temple is sacred, and you are that temple" (NIV). People think that they have the right to choose whether or not they want to live for God. Humankind was created to worship God; the body is the Temple that God desires to inhabit. If we do not maintain the Temple and destroy it, then God will destroy us.

Paul is instructing the Corinthians and all believers today to maintain their Temple by resisting sin and serving God. The Temple was used for God's work; therefore, your body and your life must be used for God's work. Your life must be a continual worship service of praise, adoration, thanksgiving, and sacrifice. Miracles are manifested through the Temple where God dwells. The presence of God will convict sin. Therefore, where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty (2 Corinthians 3:17). People should be free of worry, and the burdens of life and money where the Spirit of the Lord is.

Are you God's Temple? Have you become content with going to the building, and not keeping God in your Temple? The building is functional, a place used for resources and shelter; it is not the place that God desires to dwell. The building becomes the place of worship whenever worshippers enter. Anywhere a believer is becomes a place of worship. Do you lie in a church building? Do you smoke, or curse, or lust, or exhibit any illicit sins in the church building? NO! People know how to act when they "go" to church. Therefore, if your body and your life is the Church, then you should be striving every minute of every day to keep it sanctified and Holy, so that God will be pleased to dwell, "tabernacle", in your Temple.

## Chapter IX: Can't vs. Can

As a child, I was read a story about a little train. This train did not have the power to climb a steep hill. The story taught that the little train had to be persistent in order to accomplish this goal. Persistence is an essential characteristic for a believer, in moderation. Persistence for believers must be guided by perseverance, not pride. The difference can mean drawing closer to God or being pushed away.

Believers are to evidence the presence of God's Holy Spirit; however, too many look for the evidence in speaking in tongue. Again, I state that I do not have any problem with speaking in tongues. My issue is that there are other, more important signs that are lacking in believers. While it is known that faking is never good, it must be stated that some people fake; therefore, God, through Paul, has given a deeper standard of spiritual presence. Galatians 5:22-26 teaches about the "Fruit of the Spirit". The evidence of the Spirit of God is in the character and attitude of a believer. Many pursue tongue, but who is pursuing character? Let's look at this passage in order to recognize when a believer is blessed by "I can't".

Paul is teaching the Church in Galatia that believers do not control themselves; they are controlled (led) by the Spirit of God. This means that believers yield to the will and plan of God through the Holy Spirit. The evidence of this surrender of will and takeover by the Holy Spirit is as follows:

Love – the feeling that a believer has for all people. Love is what motivates believers to care for their enemies and share the burdens of other believers.

Joy – the response to all situations. This is the happiness to be experienced from knowing that God loves me. Joy is available in all situations if we are willing to allow the Holy Spirit to show us the joy that has come from God.

Peace – the state of mind causes believers not to stress or worry about the cares of life. Peace is achieved based on the love of God and the joy that we experience in every situation.

Patience – once the believer has achieved peace, patience is an easy step. There will never be a need to rush or panic because God is in control. The believer's objective would be to trust God and be instantly in obedience to the Word and Will of God.

Kindness – is an expression of this new state of mind and attitude that the believer has received from God by the Holy Spirit. This is the action that is a direct result of love in the believer's life.

Generosity – the sharing of all things liberally. To give, not only as it is needed but to offer more than the situation requires.

Faithfulness – honoring one's commitment. Keeping my word. One who has obtained faithfulness has come to understand that your word binds. Dependability is a mainstay for the faithful person. Faithfulness is determined by experience, not lip service.

Gentleness – one who has shown love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, generosity and faithfulness will execute their ministry in gentleness.

Self-control – self-denial; the act of denying yourself, controlling your impulses. This is not by an act of God; this is executed by discipline to subdue the flesh.

In verse 24, Paul explains that those who belong to Christ have crucified (killed) the flesh with its passions and desires. How is it, then, that people can do what they want, and still be Spirit-led? It just isn't so. People are not perfect; we are striving. Believers must strive to kill the flesh so that the Spirit of God has control of everything. The result is the fruit that Paul has described.

The behavior and attitude of people in church can be counter to the teaching of Paul about the fruit of the Spirit. Look at verse 26: let us not be conceited, competing with one another, envying one another. In many churches, the stimulus to action is a "healthy" competition. There is nothing healthy about competing in the one place that everybody should win. What kind of humility is this? What kind of believer would work for recognition?

The Holy Spirit having control of the believer - not the believer having control over the Holy Spirit - evidences the fruit and results of the Holy Spirit. The Church has embraced this hypocrisy because the agenda of leadership is not to cultivate humility but to bolster the bottom line, be it membership totals or revenue.

Believers have an awesome opportunity in "I can't". This opportunity is to allow God, through the Holy Spirit, to accomplish what cannot be done. Many times, "I can't" becomes an opportunity to run from God, looking for preparation. Since preparation is found in God, believers must surrender in order to become prepared. Running gives Satan control to lead one away from God. "I can't" is a great crossroad to recognize that faith gives substance to all that we cannot see and do.

However, "I can" is more dangerous, because at best it takes for granted that God has enabled a person to do something. The only time that "I can" is a sign of perseverance is when it is coupled with the help of God. "I can with the help of God." "I can" by itself can foster pride and self-will. Once this occurs, how can the Spirit of God lead a person who has already established his or her own course?

To manifest the power of God in your life, learn to trust in God for everything. Not just the things that you can't do or obtain, but for everything. We never know the path that God has ordained for us to follow. If you want to guarantee that God will answer your prayers, allow the Holy Spirit to make God's desire your desire. Then whatever you ask for will be granted to you.

Some have limited praying in the Spirit to speaking in an unknown language. This powerful communication has to do with the Spirit of God speaking God's will as your request to God. When people ask God for the Divine will to be done, it will always be accomplished. Many times, believers are not sure about the specific will of God; therefore, it is impossible to pray God's will. This is when the believer is quiet and seeks for the Spirit of God to speak. Silence and selflessness are keys to the Holy Spirit speaking for you, to you, and through you. The only agenda for a believer is God's agenda to show love to humankind, so that God would be glorified and souls would be saved.

It is great to acknowledge "I can't", as long as you allow and seek the Spirit of God, who can.

## Chapter X: Resurrection vs. Easter

Every believer knows that God despises pagan worship. All of the events recorded in the Bible of Israel - following other gods, then being punished by the true and living God for their disobedience - is more than enough proof that pagan worship displeases God. It is very clear when God has stated:

"You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself an idol in the form of anything in heaven above or on the earth beneath or in the waters below. You shall not bow down to them or worship them; for I, the LORD your God, am a jealous God, punishing the children for the sin of the fathers to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me, but showing love to a thousand [generations] of those who love me and keep my commandments." Exodus 20:3-6 (NIV)

Believers are as clear that salvation was purchased by the death of Jesus the Christ, and everlasting peace was sealed through the resurrection of the Christ from the dead. The Gospels teach us that Jesus rose from the grave on the first day of the week after the Passover. In light of the Greco-Roman calendar system that is currently being used, the first day of the week is Sunday. Therefore, on the Sunday after Passover, believers in Jesus as the Christ celebrate the Resurrection. I cannot understand where the term 'Easter' came from.

In the Second (New) Testament, the term 'Passover' is stated 28 times. It comes from the root word, pascha (pas'-khah), which is of Aramaic origin; the Passover (the meal, the day, the festival or the special sacrifices) is connected with it. Only once in the Bible is the word pascha translated 'Easter', in the King James Version of Acts 12:4. Even the New King James Version changed the translation to Passover. So if the only occurrence of the term 'Easter' is a mistake in translation, why does the Church rely on the term so heavily?

The issue with the term is the tradition that comes along with it. The things that symbolize Easter will lead us to the pagan worship behind it. Bunny rabbits and eggs are the traditional symbols for Easter. Both of these items symbolize fertility or new life. Pagans worship the beginning of spring as a rebirth or a sign of the continuance of life. Many believers have no problem with these symbols being used to acknowledge the death and resurrection of Jesus the Christ.

The problem is that the focus is taken off of worship and praise for egg hunts and bunny races. The power of The Resurrection has given life to creation, and while there are other traditions that view and recognize spring as the author of new life, Christianity must give all reverence and attention solely to God through Jesus the Christ. Believers are not given the latitude to substitute or comply with earthly symbols and recognitions. Believers cannot waver and allow secular traditions to pollute the simplicity of The Resurrection. Easter with its eggs and rabbits must die now. Why is the Church afraid to please God by getting out of the margins? There is no need for a transition period or time to teach people the truth. Eliminate the pagan activity and worship God in spirit and truth. The Church can never be free with pagan worship in the midst.

I have chosen not to address the pagan traditions found in Christmas. However, I will state that Jeremiah 10:3-4 records that God said that the pagans cut down trees and decorate them with silver and gold. Believers are not to be like them. What does a tree and/or Santa Claus have to do with the birth of Jesus the Christ? Are we so ungrateful that we need to be entertained instead of worshipping God? Has the Church become so bored with the things of God that irrelevant traditions and folklore have consumed our attention?

Where does it end? God is not that complicated! The Church must return to the true and living God through Jesus the Christ. Has humility been replaced by tradition and programming? Has the bondage of money and acceptance muzzled the prophets of God from speaking truth in the midst of adversity? Worship and praise are the functions of believers. Is God being reverenced in the Church today, or are believers just following the pattern of traditions and denominations? Let each one be accountable for his or her actions from this moment. As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Choose this day whom you will serve.

John 3:16 says that God so loved the world that He gave His only Son, that whoever believes in Him will have eternal life. Now can we look at this from God's perspective for a moment? God was the only one who needs what would be accepted for the atonement of sin; therefore, the coming and resurrection of Jesus was an act of God's love. How would you feel if you sacrificed your son, and then those who were rescued chose to cherish eggs and bunnies on the day that was established to acknowledge your sacrifice? How would you feel being told that we are thankful but I just have eggs and bunnies because it is fun? Why not pick another day for eggs and bunnies and reserve Resurrection Sunday for praise and thanksgiving to God for a risen Savior? Let's stop mixing pagan with precious.

I would expect that someone would draw a line and say that there is a time for fun and a time for reverence. How could we compromise the day of redemption? How could we compromise the day of our resurrection? The Apostle Paul teaches, in Romans 8, that anyone who believes that God raised Jesus will be raised with Him. This is the reward for all who believe: to be raised and live eternally with our God. This is only possible through belief in Jesus Christ as the first born of the dead. To compromise Resurrection is to compromise salvation. To substitute eggs and bunnies for the empty tomb, and to compromise fun for thanksgiving, is to forfeit salvation for fun, the empty tomb for eggs and bunnies.

Suggest that the egg hunt be moved to October and see what the Christians do. We have been so polluted that we cannot recognize our disrespect of our God. We are so consumed with ourselves that we are not grieved by the things that grieve our God. We cannot hear God because the message is condemning us in what we call tradition. There are some powerful and meaningful traditions that have been established in the Word of God; let's embrace these, and rebuke everything that does not give the glory and honor to our God through Jesus Christ.

Let me be clear. I believe that all of the pagan worship must be abolished. However, because some will have difficulty with this, I am suggesting that the association with the Resurrection be removed by moving the pagan practice of eggs and bunnies to a date far away from the commemoration of the resurrection of our Lord and Savior. We will all find out how thankful we are when Easter and Christmas die so that true believers can focus on the birth and resurrection of the Savior.

Let's get serious.
Chapter XI: Wait vs. Wait

This term Wait is a significant term in the life of a believer. Isaiah 40:31 states:

But they that wait upon the LORD shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.

There are 2 possible definitions for wait in this context:

  1. To remain or rest in expectation: _waiting for the guests to arrive._ To tarry until another catches up. To remain or be in readiness: _lunch waiting on the table._ To remain temporarily neglected, unattended to, or postponed: _The trip will have to wait._

  2. To work as a waiter or waitress.

The widely accepted application of this verse is based on the first definition. During a rest or break, God's people will be renewed. I do not disagree with this application; it is the response to it that's the issue.

The language of this chapter is that God will strengthen the weak in faith. How did the people get to this state? Surely, they did not get here by sitting around waiting for something to happen. They had to be working, serving the plan of God, and becoming tired, overwhelmed, and in need of refreshment. Complacency has become common place in Christianity. As we have discussed previously, we opt for programs over ministers, fundraising over faith, and so on. What is the need for waiting for renewal if we are not serving? Why would God invest in refreshing those who are not serving divine objectives? The first definition is only applicable in response to the second definition. So, shouldn't ministers seek to motivate service with the understanding that God will renew and refresh? To focus solely on the refreshing without serving is somehow flawed.

Notice the active content of this verse. The promised renewal does not lend itself to the concept of pause for rest. "Run and not get weary"; this promised restoration appears to indicate that the person will not become tired once this renewal is received. "Walk and not faint"; it appears that the difference is in the rate of speed that the person is moving, not in the fact that they have stopped moving.

God can do anything, so if God wants to allow every believer an opportunity to receive renewal, that is great. However, the use of "not get" causes me an issue, because once we receive this renewal, we are not expected to be tired again. It is fine to subscribe to this understanding; however, we must note that once the renewal and refreshing is received, we are to get busy serving God. Whether the service is in the beginning or at the end, it is clear that God wants to either renew those who are serving or to energize for service.

James asserts, in his first chapter, that anyone who hears that Word, and is not moved to action (become a doer), is stuck in a natural reflection. The entire Second Covenant (New Testament) has a simple structure:

  1. Through love and grace, God is able and willing to redeem all people through Jesus the Christ.

  2. In light of human frailty, God is able and willing to forgive us through earnest and honest repentance.

  3. For guidance and usefulness, God would remain present with us in the Holy Spirit.

  4. By faith and endurance, believers would be reestablished with God forever in the Kingdom of God.

Great plan! Please remember the association between Paul and James that we had discussed previously. We are saved by faith not works, and faith without workers is dead. Salvation is a free gift from God that cannot be earned; however, once saved, we serve (work for) God out of the love and desire to carry forward the mission of redemption through grace. The plan of God is a continual process of salvation, preparation and ministry (service). The saved serve so that others are saved. It has never been God's plan for believers to be focused on anything other than the plan for salvation. Miracles, signs and wonders are available through believers so that unbelievers will know God's power and presence, so that they will believe unto salvation.

Jesus did not work miracles for the sake of the miracle. Jesus even instructed the disciples in Luke 10:20 to rejoice, not because spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your name is written in heaven. This learning was given to the seventy or seventy-two upon returning from casting out demons and healing diseases. Jesus wanted them to stay focused on salvation.

In a lot of churches, salvation is an occasional experience. Some pastors do not regularly seek to embrace the newly born, because they know that the members are not seeking to reap the blessed harvest of God. In Luke 10:2, Jesus said that the harvest was plentiful but the laborers are few. The enemy has done a masterful job of getting the believers to pursue membership instead of ministry. Please see that the concept of membership divides the body of Christ, while the concept of ministry draws us together so that we can serve God together.

We should all strive to be waiters, hustling to fill God's last order so that God's will is done in the earth as it is in heaven. Believers must ensure so that God is given control through us in the earth. Believers are the living evidence that God is not only real but possesses the power to change lives and circumstances. Waiters are tipped based on the service that they render. The thankful patron will always acknowledge a good waiter with a tip. My heart's desire is to wait on God, to fill God's order with expedience and gladness so that God would desire to acknowledge me as a son.

## Chapter XII: Prosperity vs. Greed

God wants you to prosper! This is a fundamental Biblical principle that is supported in scripture. The book of Deuteronomy consistently records God's plan to lead the people (Israel) into the land of abundance, flowing with milk and honey. Deuteronomy 28:12 clearly and plainly tells us, "The Lord will open for you His rich storehouse, the heavens, to give the rain of your land in its season and to bless all your undertakings. You will lend to many nations, but you will not borrow." Please note that this context was spoken to the nation of God's children, not individuals. These wonderful promises of provision from the Father have been transported into the modern day with the baggage of our material focus, and thus have lost their meaning and intent.

The Biblical concept of prosperity is not restricted to material wealth. God desires for believers to acknowledge and appreciate every blessing. Before Israel could possess the land of abundance, they had to be satisfied with manna and water from a rock. Deuteronomy 8:4 says that their clothes did not wear out. God is blessing believers abundantly every day, but the abundance is not restricted to money or material gain.

It has always concerned me that the Prosperity Preacher always has a gift to bring increase for the giver; however, the giver is never instructed to believe in Jesus the Christ, become a regular participant in the working ministry of a church, and give his or her gift to the church that he is in fellowship with. The message is always the same: "send your gift to me and God will send increase to you." Ministers, dressed in tailor-made suits and dresses, living in extravagant houses, flying on private jets, use their material possessions to validate that they can bring increase for you. I cannot find any Biblical context that even remotely alludes to God blessing people who do not believe and are uncommitted to sharing the Gospel message of Jesus. Even the awesome promises of Deuteronomy are conditioned with a steadfast commitment to live according to God's commandments.

In this greed of desperation gospel, the minister is the only one guaranteed to prosper. As I have stated previously, the Christian Church has become a very profitable business entity. Some ministers have blurred the line between greed and prosperity. In order to look into this conflict, we must first understand what prosperity is.

By definition, prosperity is an economic state of growth with rising profit and full employment, or having good fortune.

  1. An economic state is pertaining to the production, distribution, and use of income, wealth, and commodities. The Christian Church has a commission to advance a commodity. The commodity is salvation through the Gospel of Jesus the Church. Economy does include the production and distribution, as the definition states, of income and wealth. It is Biblical for the Church to receive tithes and offerings, and to distribute these resources for the advancement of the Gospel. What is happening is that the economy of the Christian Church has taken on a secular approach. Pastors are viewed like CEO's, making as much as the shareholders will bear, and sometimes, as in business, more than the shareholders can bear. Everything in church is for sale: food, clothing, and the spoken word. I thought that the Gospel was free? The Church receives tithes and offerings in order to execute the Gospel mission of Christ, not to live in luxury above the people who contribute. The economic state of the Christian Church is a state of greed. How much is enough? Let's allow each congregation or denomination to decide for themselves. Once this decision is made, stay within the limits. If a pastor needs one million dollars a year to live, do not give them one cent over that amount. Many churches establish a salary and then have an appreciation on top of that. As I stated previously, if God does the work, why does the pastor get the bonus?

  2. Our definition of 'prosperity' mentions rising profits. Profit is the monetary surplus left to a producer after deducting operating expenses (wages, rent, cost of raw materials, etc). Instead of allowing profit to be the result of good stewardship (management), the Church has elected to generate profits by selling anything from anointed oil to anointed soap, placing nameplates on pews and plagues for the highest contribution. Seems like freely giving has been replaced with 'buy our new product'. How can the lost benefit from the Word that God reveals if we have to pay for the recording?

  3. Prosperity by definition is not a concept for the individual. Prosperity is a community concept. First, let's continue with our definition. Full employment is the condition that exists when all who want work can find jobs. Because some individuals will always be between jobs, full employment does not mean that one hundred percent of the workforce is employed. Rather, it is customarily defined as ninety-six percent of the total potential workforce. How does full employment relate to Christian Prosperity? I'm glad you asked. Employment, in a Christian sense, is service or ministry. God desires to use believers at a level of full employment, everyone working together to advance salvation through the Gospel. Remember, if 80% of ministry time is spent raising money, when do we work for the advancement of salvation through the Gospel?

  4. The last part of our prosperity definition is good fortune. Fortune is change that is happening throughout life, which may turn out well or badly. Since we are addressing good fortune, we can say that it turns out well. For believers, fortune is not luck; it is favor from God.

This new-age concept of prosperity is basically, "give your money to me because I am a vessel of prosperity and God will make you prosperous because of the faith that you have displayed in giving." This position assumes that God does not intend to prosper everyone who believes. Furthermore, it also assumes that there are ministries that God is not going to prosper so don't give to them. Biblically, God always prospered the obedient people. Please read Deuteronomy 28 and Acts 2-5. Even when God told Abraham that he would be blessed, the blessing that God would establish was for the nation. The prosperity of the Garden of Eden was not just for Adam and Eve; the Lord told them to be fruitful and multiply. The provisions of the Garden were for everybody. In every Biblical event of prosperity, sin broke the cycle.

The Christian Church is starting to resemble the Synagogue that Jesus encountered. Money has become the center of most Christian activity. Singers, musicians and preachers, who will not share their ministry with you without a minimum fee, justify their behavior by stating that this is so people will not exploit their ministry. If people are being saved and encouraged by Jesus Christ, then how can I be exploited? If my concern is that someone may make some money off of me, then of course I can be exploited. Souls are being lost because of an obsession with greed.

Many Christian have convinced themselves that they deserve luxury and comfort because they believe. If Jesus was rich, as some assert, why would Judas sell Him out for 30 pieces of silver? Surely, Jesus was paying Judas more than that, if Jesus was rich?

Most of the ministers who are living in this cycle of greed are merely responding to the historical fact that people will not give freely. When a person will give one thousand dollars to have their name advertised, but will not give one thousand dollars anonymously in an offering, we can see what has happened. In order to defeat this cycle, the believer must freely give. Ministers must be good stewards in managing what is given to advance salvation through the Gospel of Jesus Christ.

It is hard to recognize greed when we are greedy. Desires are out of control, not seeking to save but to get more; the Church is not investing in reaching the lost, just to merchandise the found. The products that are being sold are not to allow the lost to see the love of Christ, but to advance the bottom line of the balance sheet. The Christian Church needs a conceptual overhaul. God's first desire is for sinners to be saved, not for believers to be rich. If I want to be financially rich, I will study, read and listen to anyone who tells me that I can be. I will not invest myself in feeding the hungry or witnessing to the lost, because these things will not achieve my objective. Ask yourself, how does God benefit from me being rich? How does the sinner draw closer to God by me being rich? If we cannot determine how much is enough, how can we determine what should be invested in the lost? The world views the Church as not representing God. The beggar at the gate called Beautiful in Acts 3 did not need money; he needed to walk, but self-consumed people will always give money before investing themselves. So, neither the beggar nor the people could be blessed. When God worked his miracle through Peter and John, the people in the temple were bothered because they did not expect God to do this. God gets the glory out of the unexplainable miracles, not money.

The greed of the Christian Church paired with the visibility of this greed is causing the lost to seek for God without the Church. People are searching for ways to love God without the fellowship, teaching and support of the community of believers, which is the Church. The Church is moving backward into the same behaviors that caused Jesus to come. On the second coming, it will be too late. Those who love possessions more than God will accept the mark of the beast in order to continue their lives of luxury and comfort.

## Chapter XIII: Life vs. Death

The result of ministry is Life. From Genesis to Revelation, the Bible shows us that the beginning is life. Life is what people expected. Death is the inevitable; however, when God is placed in between the expected and the inevitable, the inevitable is reversed so that the expected can be achieved.

Ministry in God by the Holy Spirit must result in life and life more abundantly. The end of ministry is not programs or numbers, it is life. The Book of Hebrews speaks to the matter of death and life in the context of what believers should be doing in preparation. Let's look at two scriptures: Hebrews 6:1-2 and 9:14; both of these scriptures speak of dead works. In order to prepare a foundation, allow me to first address Hebrews 9:14.

The traditional ceremonies and rituals established by God had become routine and lost their ability to convict humankind of their sins because their hearts were no longer in the practices. The same is true today. Prayer meetings, worship services, and fasting have lost their impact on the soul and spirit of human beings. Churches are going through the motions, following the Word of God, but the rituals have lost their impact because the heart is not seeking to be broken. This is what made, and is making today, the impact of God's work dead and routine.

The impact of the blood of Christ, through the death and resurrection, was to unleash power through the coming and manifestation of the Holy Spirit. A review of the book of Acts will show that the power of the Living God was with the disciples of Jesus Christ. Their words spoke healing and life. Their touch brought restoration and peace. This was just as God intended in the beginning and Jesus executed and ministered while in the flesh. God's promises are true; therefore, when Christ promised that greater works would be done in His name, every believer should have an expectation of greater. The blood of Jesus has reversed the inevitable and offered what was expected: life to those who believed. When you have been washed by the blood, you will be energized to seek greater, not just the traditions and rituals of God, but to go deeper to the personal conviction and sacrifice that will lead to a commitment that we give our lives into the hands of God to be used for the purpose of Heaven.

Hebrews 9:14 is attempting to keep the believer focused on the power of the blood to change the inevitable into the expected. Your ministry, when introduced into difficult situations, will alter the inevitable death and bring expected life. Believers cannot lose hope. God will not fail you as you strive to deepen your relationship and commitment to God.

I pray that you are ready to recognize dead works so that you can re-focus and move on to the power that God has for your individual service. Everything is not based on corporate service. Corporate is the work you do in Church. Hebrew 6:1-2 says:

"Therefore let us leave the elementary teachings about Christ and go on to maturity, not laying again the foundation of repentance from acts that lead to death, and of faith in God, instruction about baptisms, the laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment. (NIV)

It is clear that a person must, at least, satisfy the minimum requirements in order to be promoted to the next grade level and it is the objective to complete high school. The use of the term 'elementary' puts us in that same frame of mind. The author says to leave the elementary for something else. What is elementary in these verses? The author says that instruction about baptisms, the laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment, are elementary. In some churches, these are graduate level; here, they are elementary. Why? These are the elements that are necessary to start working for God. They are not the pinnacle, but the foundation.

Once the foundation is laid, the real work can begin. The Church has become so preoccupied with the tools that the building cannot be completed. In Luke 10:17-20, the disciples marveled at the power of the Holy Spirit; Jesus instructed them not to rejoice over the tools, but rejoice that their names are written in heaven. This approach caused them to recognize that their ministry (service) was not over until they were resting in peace with God.

Most denominational differences are based on what is recognized as elementary. Why? So we, Christians, can debate what is Biblically explained. For these elementary items, the Bible is rather clear:

Baptism is by emersion, to be covered by or consumed in the water. This can be accomplished in a number of ways. It is also clear that every person must confess belief in Jesus as the Christ for themselves. Infants cannot; therefore, they cannot be baptized. There is no need for them to be baptized because they are innocent of sin until they understand it.

Laying on of hands was done by the Apostles in the Book of Acts. This cannot be denied. Some believers have been convinced that this is the only way to receive power and some have been convinced that it died with the first-century believers. The Book of Acts is the chronicle of what God did through and for the Apostles. God is not required to do the same thing through us, but this is evidence of what God can and is willing to do.

Resurrection of the dead is something that anyone who is saved must believe in. As I stated earlier, according to the Apostle Paul, salvation is based on the belief that, as Christ was risen, the spirits of the true believers will live eternally with God.

Eternal judgment is not debated by many, but some try to teach that there is no hell (eternal punishment), and that the Church has added this concept to scripture in order to scare people. Matthew 3:10-12 teaches that fire is for destruction of the unproductive; these verses also teach that Jesus will determine who will receive the Spirit and who will receive fire. Baptism with fire is baptism into destruction for being unproductive.

Now what? What is after the elementary? Life! Not only are we to pursue life, we are to share life with others. Believers are not living to die; we are living to live again. Jesus teaches that the living strive to serve God. The dying are just biding time, waiting to die eternally.

Life regenerates and births life. Death is not productive or regenerating. Death is complacent and negative. Believers naturally pursue and produce life. We are focused on the resurrection power of God; therefore, we should be seeking to share life with everyone we encounter. Hunger for life is ministry. Membership is complacency and will cause death. The Church of Jesus Christ is to be focused on and consumed with life.

## Chapter XIV: Vision vs. Division

The soldiers in the army of Membership have a decision to make. Can the vision be seen or will we allow division to keep the body of Christ from adhering to the purpose of God? I understand that this statement may be unfair, but what is the purpose of the Church? What is the mission of believers? Is it to meet together once a week or is it to show the love of God to humankind? There isn't any room for gray any longer. Gray has caused the Church to become internalized and self-fulfilling. The Church must go out, not merely reach out to the lost. Many are reaching from the safety of the building, trying to pull the lost into the building. But the commission of the Savior is to GO.

You may determine that the Church must be both internal and external. This view straddles the fence, in that it is okay to be complacent once a week. Please do not misunderstand my intentions. God created humankind to offer praise to the creator of the universe, the God of Israel. Praise must be continual. The life of a believer offers God praise, not only with the mouth, hands, and feet, but also with thoughts, words and deeds. Lip service to God is ignored by God. God desires those who surrender their desires for heavenly desires. The desires of God become the desires of believers.

The last thing I want to be is a hypocrite; however, I cannot allow this fear to keep me from stating the truth, as I understand it right now. First Corinthians 1:10 states that there should be no division among believers. The Apostle Paul speaks of the accusation that he is not an Apostle by saying that Christ is not divided; therefore, believers should not be divided. The situation in Corinth was that believers were puffed up about who had introduced them to Christ and the manifestation of spiritual gifts. Paul was trying to teach them that these things are not to be disagreed upon by believers.

Denominational or Non-Denominational, to be or not to be, that is not the question when it comes to the Church of Jesus Christ. Doctrines and dogma have divided the body of Christ. Most of the doctrinal confusion is based on preferences and overemphasis of some spiritual manifestation. Let me plainly state, just as there was division in Corinth, there will always be division. The Church has gravitated so far from the truth and misled so many people that the truth is buried under the systems of man. Yes, there must be a vision, but the vision is simple: Jesus Christ, the risen Son of God. Whoever believes that He is the Son of God shall accept His commission and serve with their lives, until received into eternal life in the Kingdom of God.

Simple, right! Is there speaking in tongues? Yes! Is it required to have the Holy Spirit? No! If we just follow the Bible, Paul dealt with these very questions and answered them for the Church in Corinth. Why are we stuck in this perpetual revolving door? Again, the answer is simple: Satan. As long as Satan can maintain disagreement and confusion amongst the believers, the entire body is weakened. This is part of the reason that sensationalism and prosperity teaching have distracted the Church. Believers, for the most part, do not want the truth. Believers want to be told what they want to hear.

I came out of a denomination. Not because I thought that it was bad. I came out because it was inflexible. I could not execute ministry within a system that was not willing to evaluate what it believed and why. I was called to do a work, not start a church. I think that I made every effort to do this work where I was. I sought God to understand why this work, to prepare believers for the work of ministry, was not encouraged. Why money was more important than ministry. God told me that the work was more important than the place where it would be executed, so I was instructed by God to establish an environment where believers could be prepared for the work of ministry. This is when Blessed Harvest Institute was birthed.

Church leaders need to be honest. Denominations do not agree. The general truth is that churches do not agree. The issue is not denominational or non-denominational. The issue is a desire and ability to recognize that Christ is the head; after Him, the Church should be horizontal, not vertical. Yes, there are different responsibilities and gifts, but in a horizontal relationship, we are forced to respect each individual for what they bring to the work of ministry. The fundamental vision of the Church is to save, prepare, and serve. Every person (temple) is a place of salvation, preparation and service to the God who has commissioned the vision.

Habakkuk states that without vision, the people perish. Believers are perishing because we invest more in division than the vision. We invest our energy in explaining how we are different instead of investing in bringing souls into the Kingdom of God. We act as though God does not have the power to direct and correct people. If people are in the wrong place for a particular purpose, can't God relocate them? The Kingdom of God is comprised of those who believe through Jesus the Christ. If our mission is to offer Christ to those who do not believe, then how could it matter what building one gets saved in, receives preparation in, or serves God from?

Of course, people have been called and prepared to emphasize different aspects of the vision, and cater to different preferences in music and worship styles, but never to foster division, separation, or supremacy. All people are God's creation. All nations, education or economic levels, ages and genders (male and female) are equal in God. The difference is believers and unbelievers.

There are a lot of churches that are teaching incorrect, misguided doctrine. We all are flawed to some extent. To believe that you have everything correct is to seek to eliminate what we are: human. We are imperfect. Before we can address the flaws, the Church must be open to embrace its universality, and open the opportunity to respond to questions with a willingness to adapt to whatever truth is uncovered during the journey. Our unwillingness to pursue this will continue to divide us and cement attitudes that will perpetuate separation from God.

If we are too far gone to end this war that seeks members over ministers, hierarchy over mutual respect, can we at least call a truce to regroup and refocus? Take this opportunity to go to your church and start asking questions that are important to you, such as some questions that have been raised on this journey. If you are discouraged from presenting your questions, seek an environment that will encourage learning through the use of questions. At some point in the quest for knowledge, questions must be asked in order to provide information that is needed or desired.

## Chapter XV: Pulling It Together

This journey was simply to open our eyes to the fact that God desires ministers (servants) not members. The road to ministry (servanthood) begins with being a disciple, a trainee preparing for the work or service of ministry. I understand that for some this is just a change in terminology because you have been serving God with your whole heart.

There are others who will embrace the differences in perspectives and make a conscious decision to move beyond the things that displease God by making terminology modification and even move to eliminate the things that do not line up with the word of God.

The last group are those who reject this presentation and have concluded that these perspectives are flawed and not worth any further consideration. I would like for you to study the scripture. Not just the references used in the presentation but go to the word of God and allow God to reveal the truth to you.

The Church of Jesus Christ was never intended to be divided by doctrines or interpretations. God never sought to just have organizations with members. God, the Father, sent Jesus to be the Christ, so that those who believe would take an active role in the establishment of the Kingdom by serving out of love and joy, by the Holy Spirit.

We have all been called to be ministers. No believer was called to be a member. Membership has compelled the Church into activities that have distracted us from our primary objective: spreading the Gospel to the world. Jesus called disciples, not members. It is our commission from God to be prepared with the Gospel of peace (Ephesians 6:15) so that we can effectively serve God.

May God bless you as you strive to serve.

