 
**Murder He Wrote | Poetry & Study Guide**

**Published by Dewayne Smithers at Smashwords**

**Copyright 2013 Dewayne Smithers**

**I** **SBN** **:** 978-1-62951-334-8
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Intro

Reality Check

Show Me Da Money

Bleeding Heart

Murder He Wrote

Redemption (Rap)

Dear J

Sexanomics

Good Life

Who Is He

God Spoke

Unborn Reality

My Testimony

Conclusion

_INTRO_

First thing is first. I have to give thanks to God for blessing me with this gift of poetry and spoken word. Isaiah 50:4 " The Lord God has given me the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season to them who are weary. He awakens me morning by morning. He awakens my ear to hear as the learned." I've been blessed to stand on platforms of so many venues and churches from a crowd of five people to thousands. For me, as long as one person gets touched, encouraged or inspired, I know my labor is not in vain. Through this gift, I've seen people healed, born again, transformed, families and marriages restored. All because a fatherless kid from Lexington, KY said yes to the call of God.

Murder He Wrote features 10 poems and 2 raps along with in depth commentary for each poem and rap. It takes you on a journey of my personal struggles and victories as a Christian. Some poems will make you cry while others will challenge your walk as a Christian. Also, it has an audio CD for you listening pleasure that you can purchase. Before you read the first poem, I do ask that you pray according to Ephesians 1:17:18 " That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the father of Glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him. That the eyes of your understanding will be enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of His calling, what are the riches of the glory of His inheritance in the saints." Thank you for joining me on this journey. Blessing's my friend.
_REALITY CHECK_

So you call yourself a Christian, good news, amazing

but what does it mean to be a Christian, do you have any

inclination about the meaning of salvation

Why even believe in a Deity, in a Being you can't even touch or see

let me guess, something called faith, but are you rooted and grounded

with God through everyday intimacy

You say you're a Christian, but let's be honest

is Christ truly your first priority

It really saddens me how the church and society invalidly uses the term Christian

which simply means to be Christ-like in our everyday living

In all of our actions, in all of our thoughts even to the way we talk

to love unconditionally not holding grudges or oughts

because when you love someone, you don't gossip about them

you conceal their faults

You wouldn't lie, still, cheat, or even hate

knowing your body is the temple of Christ

you wouldn't take it and fornicate

You would lay down your life

and follow Christ through the scriptures, get the picture

question: if you were put on trial for being a Christian

would there be enough evidence to convict you

or if someone put a gun to your head threatened to pull the trigger

telling you to deny Christ as Your Lord and Savior or I will kill you

would you live another day or would we be at your your funeral

Do you know of the Christians martyrs who sacrificed their life for what believed in

leaving everything behind so they could follow Him

Christ, the Messiah

Get this, Jesus never called us to be church members, He called us to be disciples

light of the world, salt of the earth, filled with heavenly fire

not people who see church as social clubs who barely know their Bible

failing to realize that to whom much is given

much is also required

Yes, I am preaching to the choir

because some of you in the choir sing for the Lord,

dance for the Lord, do spoken word for the Lord

even preach and declare the Word of the Lord

but truth be told, behind closed doors you live a life of a whore

look good on the outside, but are you Christian to the core

Are you a living Epistle known and read of all men

or do u only have a form of godliness

and God's power you're denying

Now, I could understand if you are a babe in Christ

but the ones I'm addressing, you claim you've been a

Christian for most of your life

You know right from wrong, light from dark

saying you are more than a conquer

but can't conquer the lust in your thoughts

Yes, this is just the start of you being judged

so you need to examine your fruit

because apparently your so called Christian

lifestyle doesn't match up with the truth

as Paul would say, know them that labor among you

Christ wasn't crucified for you to continue

in the sin you're in stop using the excuse

I'm not perfect, God knows my heart, I'm only human

Well, if you knew the heart of God

you would know how to bring your flesh under subjection

by setting your affections on things that pertain to Heaven

Which brings me to my next question

if judgment day were today, would you make it in with God's selection

Or would He say to you, depart from Me I never knew you, worker of iniquity

why did you even call Me Lord when you continued to live in sin willfully

constantly yielding your members as instruments of satan

Refusing to take God's way of escape when faced with temptation

but still got the nerve to come to church and lift your hands in total adoration

Singing "I'm sold out, I got my mind made up"

but as soon as church is over with, you're out the door doing the same ole stuff

indulging in the same ole sin, playing with God's grace

NEWS FLASH: broad is the way that leads to destruction

but the path of the just is narrow and straight

In which very few find

so you need to live saved the way you say you are

because we're living in the end, just look at the signs

Its time out for all of this fighting, backbiting, throwing stones and dirt

James 3:16 states "Where there is envy and strife, there is confusion and every evil work"

answer me this, why is fornication running deep in the church

You got pastors and ministers who are pimping and sleeping with members

homo-sexuals as musicians playing instruments

women who claim to be prayer partners but undercover they are lesbians

without the discerning of spirits, it's hard to tell the difference

why, because the gifts and callings of God come without repentance

but their sentence is eternal damnation if they keep

resisting the conviction of God's Spirit

in which God will then give them over to a mind that is reprobate

and from there satan takes the wheel, controlling their fate

Looking at them through the rear view mirror, laughing at them

saying, "hahaha, you were never saved in the first place

gotcha, deceived you, fooled you"

And all this time you've been coming to church

you were nothing more than a Judas

and we know what happened to him

selling Jesus out for thirty pieces of silver

went and hung himself because he couldn't live being condemned

Sin and its wages is death

if you hear the Word and don't practice it

bump satan you deceive your own self

Trust me, I've been there, had to thoroughly examine myself

take out time to remove the beam from my own eye

before I could preach to someone else

Which meant I had to truly repent and turn from my wicked ways

submit myself to Word of God and walk daily in His grace

I'll be the first to say that since God loves you so much

He will patiently wait and give you time to get it straight

But your part is to lay aside every sin, every weight

and eradicate every sinful decision

by meditating on Romans 6 to get free from sin's dominion

As Elijah asked the children of Israel

"how long will you be between two opinions"

whose voice will you follow and listen

in whose ways will you take delight

it all comes down to this

either you are team satan or team Christ

No in between, no straddling the fence

show me a person who is lukewarm

and I'll show you a person with no common sense

likened unto the man who built his house upon the sand

but when the storms hit, down it went

Go to every extent to make Jesus Christ your Chief Cornerstone

your sure and secure foundation

and then when you say you're a Christian

you can say it in love and liberation

Walk in the blessings of salvation, which only comes through Him

because one day, every tongue is going to confess

and every knee is going to kneel

to anyone who knows the right thing and doesn't do it

to them it's considered sin

Which means God CARES nothing about your confession

if your confession doesn't bring Him glory in the way you live

Which brings me to my last question

You say you believe, you doest well

but even the demons believe and tremble

so what's the difference between YOU and them

COMMENTARY: Out of all my poems, this one has got me in more trouble and kicked out of churches. Pastors and priests have told me that I should tone this poem down a little bit because it offends people. The truth is if this poem offends people, then they need to reexamine their hearts and minds to see why. When you break this poem down line by line, it lines up exactly with the Epistles written in the New Testament, especially the ones written by the Apostle Paul. Think of it like this, if Paul were a modern day poet he would write just like this. Out of all the writers of the New Testament, he was a no nonsense kind of guy who always spoke the truth in love. He didn't care if anyone got offended because he was more concerned about their lifestyle as a believer more than their feelings.

One day I was at a bank talking to a girl who told me she was a Christian. I then asked her what was the meaning of salvation, to my surprise she didn't know. Folks, that is a sad reality. In the first few lines of this poem, I ask if you know the meaning of salvation. We live in world that throws around the term "Christian" loosely without knowing the true meaning of it. Maybe that's why there are so many hypocrites who come to church on Wednesdays and Sundays. Let me ask you an honest question. If someone put a gun to your head and told you to deny Christ as your Lord and Savior within five seconds or you're dead, what would you do? Would you deny Christ or would you be dead on the spot? Let this question sink in for a little bit longer.

I'm not saying that you are going to hell for denying Christ in that kind of situation because everyone is at different level in their walk with God. Denying Christ in front of men is something God take very seriously. Jesus says in Mathew 10:33 " But whosoever shall deny me before men, that person will I deny before My Father in Heaven." I believe the reason He said this was because what He did for us through His death, burial and resurrection to provide us with salvation and eternal life with Him in the presence of God the Father. None of us really like being rejected, especially by someone we have done so much for. In the early church, people put their life and the lives of their family on the line by saying they were Christian. Some would get martyred the same day of their conversion. Even today in some third world countries people are being killed for their Christian faith. I'm not saying that every person who says they are Christian will be martyred. I'm saying that as a Christian, you have to be ready at all times to defend your faith in Christ come life or death. This poem is aimed more at people who have claimed to be Christian for sometime now. This poem is not aimed at baby Christians; we should help them grow in spiritual maturity in Christ.

Like Paul, I speak the truth in love. Trust me, I've had to remove the beam from my own eye before truly preaching to others. I couldn't take the chance of standing before Christ on the Day of Judgment and Him saying to me "Dewayne, depart from Me, I never knew you, you worker of iniquity." Once He says that, there is no reasoning with Him, to hell for eternity I go. There are many who you attend church with that Christ will say that to when they stand before Him face to face, don't let it be you. Don't get it twisted; you can't serve two masters at the same time. Either you are team satan or team Christ, no in between or straddling the fence.

Don't get me wrong, God is so in love with you and desires an everyday intimate relationship with you. He is patient and will give you time to get it straight. Isaiah 30:18 "Therefore the Lord will wait, that He may be gracious to you; and therefore He will be exalted, that He may have mercy on you. Blessed are all those who wait for Him." To get a snapshot of what a true Christian should looks like, read "Ephesians 4:17-32" and Ephesians 5:1-20."
_SHOW ME DA MONEY_

"Show me the money"

I can't, but I can show you Christ

each and every day by the way I live my life

He paid the price and became our sin

Be careful not to trust in ya riches

because they can grow wings and fly away with the wind

"Show me the money"

If I did, I may lead you to greed

But when I show you Christ

I show the One who's able to supply all your need

You see, I have to be careful about the seeds I plant

So showing you the money instead of Christ is something I can't

What God wants to do for you is something that not even money can buy

But if you make money your god, it'll leave you high and dry

Just like the rich people who constantly commit suicide

Why? They have a world of wealth, but don't have Christ living on the inside

Money can buy you a house, but it can't buy you a home

Money can get you plenty of friends, but you can still be alone

If your money is gone can you lift up your hands up in praise

Without a dime in your pocket, can you still acknowledge Christ in all your ways

Can you be content even if your money is low

Where your treasure is, you'll find your heart also

Ask yourself "Is it the doe or the Kingdom of God you're seeking after"

A wise man once said, "Money is an excellent servant but a terrible master"

"Show me the money"

If I did, it wouldn't last

What saith the scripture "Riches profit not in the day of wrath"

Please don't get me wrong, cash is not bad in itself, it's just the love of it

the root of all evil, causing men to covet

Money doesn't grow on trees but Christ was hung on one

The price He paid as God's only begotten Son

"Show me the money"

If I did, how would that profit you

even if God gave you all the money you wanted

would you be still be faithful and true

Would you still come to church and live upright

still be obedient and live in the light

Willing to sacrifice to help those who are in need

knowing it is more blessed to give than it is to receive

Would you still give seed along with your offering and tithe

or when its time to give, will you duck and try to ease your way to the outside

Will your heart be full of pride because of your increased wealth

try to keep it all to yourself

saying "I'm rich –I don't need Christ or anyone else"

These are the questions that we need to ask ourselves

"Show me the money"

Can't, but I can show you Christ

each and every day by the way I live my life

COMMENTARY: Show me the money is a crowd favorite at churches, youth events and open mics'. The Bible has more to say about money than any other subject or topic. Religion and tradition says it's wrong for Christians to have riches or financial blessings here on earth. But the goodness of God wants us to have abundance so that we can know how much our Heavenly Father cares. He wants us to show His goodness to those around us. To say that God wants us poor, when His word says otherwise is a serious sin in the eyes of God. Why so serious? Because it gives Him a terrible name that He does not deserve among men. It paints an ugly picture of Him being a cruel distant taskmaster, as opposed to a loving Father who desires to heal, bless and restore. No good earthly father want his children poor and miserable, so why do we paint such an ugly picture of our Heavenly Father, who takes pleasure in giving us good things? Don't blame Him for doing something that He had nothing to do with, blame the devil. God's word warns us never to call evil good or good evil.

The first understanding we need to know is that money is not the root of all evil. 1 Timothy 6:10 "For the LOVE of money is the root of all evil; which some while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows." Money in itself is not evil just like a car in itself is not evil. If money was evil then God is evil for blessing His people with it over and over again. Abraham, our father of faith was filthy rich. To say that money is evil, is to say God gave Abraham much evil. There is a street that runs all throughout Heaven that is paved in pure gold. If gold was evil, then Heaven has a street paved in an evil substance. The "love" of money is the root of all evil.

Let's get our priorities straight. If we want the blessing of God upon our lives, then we need to seek first God's Kingdom by putting His priorities over our own. One of the keys to putting the Kingdom of God first is in our heart's attitude and obedience to what He commands us to do, which is to love Him and others unconditionally. Remember when I told you to read Ephesians 5? Ephesians 5:1-2 "Therefore be imitators of God as dear children. Walk in love, as Christ as loves us and has given Himself for us as an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling aroma."

It is the responsibility of every believer to show Christ to the world. We are suppose to be imitators of Christ. I encourage you to study the Gospels and deeply examine the life of Christ and how he interacted with those around Him.

One aspect of His life that we should apply to our everyday is the way He walked in humility. True humility is not being poor, but being thankful. Jesus always thanked God for everything from feeding the multitudes to raising Lazarus from the dead. We hear all the time that Christ was poor, not so. Let me ask you a question. If over 2000 men showed up on your doorstep with gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh for you when you were a young child, would you be broke? These weren't normal men; these were wise men and kings. We're taught that there were only three wise men because of the three gifts. The Bible never mentions that there were only three men, but three gifts. Do an in depth study and you'll find that there were over 2000 of them that showed up with three gifts.

Humility is a must for each believer. You can be wealthy and be thankful for those blessings, and that is true humility. You can also be poor and proud of it, and that is a terrible sin in the eyes of God. If we consider wealthy Christians whom God has blessed, as being less spiritual than ourselves, then religious pride is in our hearts. We need to humble ourselves in the eyes of God and feed our hearts with truth concerning His will for prosperity.

What we have to be careful with false humility, which is actually a form of religion pride. Pride is simply saying, "I know better than God." Since God wants us to be rich, but we say that it's better for us to be poor, then we're calling Him a liar, and we're raised ourselves above Him. True humility is a reality and appreciation for the provision (healing, deliverance, financial blessings, etc.) that Christ has made available to us. Show me the money. I can't, but I can show you Christ, each and everyday by the way that I live my life.

Credited Resource: http://www.greatbiblestudy.com
_BLEEDING HEART_

One in three children, and two in three

in the inner-cities

are raised without their fathers

trust me, I should know, I was one

one who had his childhood plagued

with being a fatherless son

What else could I do but turn to the guns

turn to the streets, turn to selling drugs

feeling the pain that over 24 million kids

in America feel each and every day

the absence of their father's love

He, he only came to see me one time

which was a week after my birth

4 years later my mom caught wind

that my father breath his last and left the earth

But the question remains

what was it about me, what was it about me

that he was so ashamed of

because of his decision to abandoned me

I never had the chance to feel

the embrace of my father's hug

never heard him whisper me good night

never had the chance to look deep into his eyes

and see my reflection in his sight

The simple truth is that fathers are merely irreplaceable

in shaping structure and character

the absence of a father is the most

socially consequential family trend of our era

It is written deep into the heart of our generation

painted in art, heard in our songs

about the countless number of single mothers

juggling both sides of the trade, raising their kids alone

the responsibility of what it really means to be a father

has somewhat been dethroned

The consequence; young innocent souls are collateral damage

because of fathers, sperm donors

who refuse to step up to the plate

so for a man to bring a child into this world

and doesn't fulfill the role of the father

will leave that child with a scar of disgrace

trace the pain on the face of a fatherless child

and tell them hell is not a real place

Convince them it doesn't exist and they will beg to differ

ask them how many days and nights

they spend shedding tears as they view

their reflection in the mirror

saying, if my father was truly a part of my life

my identity would be a whole lot clearer

I would have more direction, instead of constant battles with depression

because fatherless children spend the majority

of their lifetime chasing acceptance

Like fatherless daughters who look for affection with men through sexing

collecting emotional wounds, causing them to wear mask and costumes

so by the time they meet Mr. Right, their heart is so broken

and no longer bloom like beautiful flowers in sun light

Fatherless sons hit the streets and learn to fight

fight from the rejection they feel on the inside

they are the masterminds behind most crimes

gangs and homicide

overall, fatherless children packs a high rate

when it comes to teenage suicide

CHECK THE STATS

85% end up in prison, 80% are rapist

90% are runaways or homeless

71% are high school dropouts

70% end up in teenage pregnancy

Get this, kids who are born to unwed mothers

are ten times more likely to live in poverty

Sadly, our society is unable to sustain or even give reason

to believe in fatherhood as a distinctive domain of male ACT-tivity

Consequently, kids are forced, forced to see their fathers as fantasy figures

told to them through the stories they constantly hear from extended family members

like me, some kids only see the faces of their fathers through pictures

So I figured, figured that I would write this poem

in hopes to change the hearts of men

to plead with each and every father to have a dominant role

in the everyday life of their kid

Because a kid's heart filled with their father's love

is like ink in a pen that never runs dry

lets just say it's an endless supply

to help sustain the pulse of the kid

until the day they die

The worst thing a father could ever do

is leave his kid confused with why's and if's

because a kid's trust is such a precious gift

That no man should never neglect

even Jesus said if anyone offends a kid

It's better for a millstone to be hung around their neck

And drowned into the sea nonetheless

because God fights for the oppressed

He will judge a man who leaves his kid fatherless

because any man who turns his back on his kid

is nothing more than heartless, selfish,

one who is slacking

Maturity doesn't come with age

but the accepting of one's responsibility for his actions

like supplying the most important need

Never forget that as a father, you have a mouth to feed

Because as a culture, our belief in fatherhood

is constantly under siege

Like attacks in Iraq, exploding like bombs

and when the smoke clears

the causalities are broken hearted kids

with masses of single moms

So as I bring this poem to a close

the script of fatherless children has a never-ending plot

with real life characters

unfolding each and everyday

throughout the streets of America

It is a story of shame and pain

written with blood and tears

kids taken full blame of why our fathers disappeared

and went M.I.A

these are words and thoughts

that a kid should never have to replay

It bleeds, bleeds my heart to say

That

One in three children, and two in three

in the inner-cities

are raised without their fathers

trust me, I should know, I was one

one who had his childhood plagued

with being a fatherless son

COMMENTARY: I was dating this girl who was studying to get her Masters in Marriage & Family Counseling. We had many conversations about fatherless children, which led me to do my own research. As I was doing my own digging about this subject, I felt my own pain begin to rise up from being raised without my father. About a month before Fathers Day one year, my church asked me to do poem about fatherhood. That's when God told me to take all my research along with my own personal story and put in poetry form. As I was writing this poem and practiced reciting it, there were times that I broke out in tears. This happened over, over and over again. Even when I do this poem at different venues, I feel the tears rising up to the point I have to compose myself.

Growing up without my father was a not a walk in the park. My father was married when he started dating my mother. A week after I was born, he came to see me, after that he disappeared never to be seen again. Four years later my mom received the news about his death. I can only imagine how that made her feel. My mother is the strongest woman I know. Not once have I ever saw her shed a single tear. Without her there is no telling were I would be in life. She was told that he died from a drug overdose in Florida. It wasn't until the year 2000 that the truth of his death was revealed to me when I met his side of the family for the first time. He was kidnapped in California, tied to a field goal post at a football stadium and his head was blown off by a 12 gage shot gun. Till this day, his murder is still a mystery.

In our American culture, over 24 million kids are fatherless. That is a sad, sad reality and nightmare that no kid should have to live through. For too many kids (and young adults), "Dad" is a shadowy figure, a fading memory, a hurt feeling; but never someone they knew deeply. For some kids, their fathers are fantasy figures, told to them through stories from family members. I grew up not even knowing what my father looked like. It wasn't until early 2000 that I saw a picture of him for the first time. It was a sigh of relief along with a little bit of anger. I was looking at a man that could pass for my twin, but also saw a man who kept me a secret and wanted nothing to do with me. For a few hours, my aunt, his sister told me so many stories about him. Come to find out, he was just like me in personality. Shy, comical, creative, mild mannered and a traveler at heart among other things. I forgive him for leaving me when I was an infant. I hope and pray that he is Heaven.

It really breaks my heart when I see a sperm donor not truly being in the life of his kid or kids. Most kids who are fatherless don't have reliable father figures to turn to. This fatherless generation has never been unsure of their place in the world and the results are devastating. Some of the boys look for approval in gangs; others channel their resentment toward an unhealthy work ethic, wild behavior or excessive competitiveness. Many young girls and women seek out affection from boys and men who are too happy to oblige.

Rejection from a father is just as deadly as venom. A mindset of rejection in turn results in the development of shame. A fatherless child feels shame because they believe the lie that there is something wrong with them, which caused their father to leave. These thoughts of shame and inadequacy follow them into every area of their life. Follows them to the playground, school, work and relationships including marriage. The shame is not only a mindset, but also a physical demeanor. The roots of shame truly run deep. Not only do these kids or adults workout their issues of fatherless through music, they do it through movies and other forms of creative art.

85% of people in prison or who have been to prison were fatherless growing up. This is only one statistic about fatherless children. Look at the bad effect this genocide is having on our society. Every statistic I mentioned in this poem was true about me except the one about rape. I went to jail a few times starting at the age of 15 up until I was 22. Almost got ten years in prison for selling drugs but the judge was merciful. Ran away from home when I was a young teen. Dropped out of high school when I was 17. Got a girl pregnant in my early 20's but she had an abortion. I'm still battling poverty and its effects to this day. On the bright side, I went back and obtained my GED. After that, I went on to graduate from Eastern Kentucky University with a B.A in Broadcasting & Electronic Media.

Trust me, I can spend all day writing about this topic because I've experienced it and see it daily first hand. I wrote this poem in hopes to inspire the hearts of men. My plea is to every father walking the face of the earth to really be involved in the life or your kid even if you and the mother are not together. It's not fair to your kid that they have to be raised without you not really being there for them. If you are in prison, write to them or call them constantly. Don't miss another day without being there for them.

The term "fatherhood" has somewhat been dethroned in our society; help bring it back to its rightful place. If you are a mother who is restricting your kid's father from seeing them, you are just as guilty, stop it. He may have done you wrong in so many ways and hurt you, but don't make your kid pay for it. Your kid deserves an authentic relationship with their father. I believe in these last days that God will turn the hearts back to the children and the hearts of the children back to the fathers.
_MURDER HE WROTE_

Enough is enough, because honestly I get so tired of me

tired of me of not walking in my Christ-like identity

Its gonna take me yielding to Holy Spirit constantly

on a daily just to deal with this ole rugged flesh of me

Wish I could just ripped it off and keep it far far away from me

send it to solitary confinement to Alcatraz for eternity

tie the key to a brick and throw it into the sea

How about this, I can build a time machine to travel

back in time so I can erase me from history

Go out and pick a fight with the mafia

so I can cheer them on as they beat and violently torcher me

Or maybe I can fly me to a third world country, sell me into slavery

for money come back to America so I can live happily ever after without me

Yes, I know this sounds crazy, but "Murder He Wrote" is a poem about the death of me

so I fully give you permission to come and choke the breath out of me

I will even supply you the chain full of spikes to tie around my neck

so I can sit back and watch as you painfully strangle me

Get some grenades; take out the clips so I can throw them into a room with me

see me go up in flames and smile because I no longer have to deal with me

Or, I can tie me to a tree, back up and throw knives at me

take me up the highest hill even if I have to carry me

to the edge of the cliff, off I can push me

Maybe I can follow me around to see where me is going

so I can hire a sniper to snipe me

Quick, someone call the local authorities

because I Dewayne Smithers is about to catch

a case of homicide for the murder of me

I will gladly plead guilty to the charges of manslaughter

because here lately I've been secretly planning the destruction of me

Thinking of ways that I can decompose of me

it is no mystery that I....I....I.... just can't stand the sight of me

For me is so stubborn that I will no longer try to reason with me

so note to me "Be afraid, be very afraid" because I am now me worst enemy

Get ready for the fight of the century, it is I verses me

I will no longer have mercy and compassion me

so I will personally see that there comes and end to me

Somehow, someway

and what me don't know is that last night I went out and dug me a grave

Ten feet wide and ten feet deep

don't feel sorry or cry when you see I without me

Because the me that has to die is the me

who was born into sin and shaped in iniquity

the me I can't stand is prideful, lustful, envious and greedy

when I try to spend time with God, me wants to chill and hang with the enemy

Desperately, quickly, I have to bring death to me

it is time that I kill the very thing that gives life to me

But I've come to realize the only way for I to bring death to me

is for I to crucify me with the One who was crucified for I at Calvary

the One who shed His blood just so I can be free from me

So Murder He Wrote is a poem about the death of me

it is how I for the sake of the Kingdom of God finally got free from me

just so I can be the Man of God He has called I to be

........Murder He Wrote....

COMMENTARY: Disclaimer, don't try the stuff I mentioned in the poem about killing myself at home. At this particular time in my life, I was just fed up with myself. Have you ever been there before? Be honest. How do we handle the frustrations of dealing with ourselves on a daily bases? I hear people say stuff like "If I just move away, my life would be better." The thing is this, you can go anywhere in the world but you can never escape you without going through Christ. The truth is, outside the death, burial and resurrection of Christ, we will feel like this all the time. Mathew 6:24-25 " Then said to His disciples, if any one desires to come after me, let them deny their self and take up their cross and follow Me. For whoever desires to save their life will lose it. But whoever loses their life for My sake will find it."

When reading this verse, you'll see Jesus throwing one of His many curve balls. You can't follow Jesus if don't learn how to first deny yourself. Meaning you have to live by laws concerning His Kingdom. When you take a job at a corporation or company, the first thing they give you is an employee handbook. If you want to stay employed, you have to follow their rules laid out in the rulebook. If they say you get a one-hour lunch break each shift but you take a two-hour lunch break, your stay won't last long. It's their kingdom, not yours.

To many Christians want Jesus to submit to them instead of them submitting to Him. They believe their way is better than God's way. They want Him as a friend but not really as Lord & Savior. The only way to follow Christ is for you to deny yourself, pick up your cross and follow Him. Deny what? Your fleshly mindset. Romans 12:1-2 "I beseech you therefore brethren by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God which is your reasonable service. Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good, acceptable and perfect will of God." You denying yourself, picking up your cross and losing yourself for the sake of Jesus simply you taking on the mind of Christ. It is you casting down every imagination and bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ.

Being pleasing to God is not about rules and regulations. It's about being in a right relationship with Him through Jesus Christ. He has placed standards for us to live by as Christians, not to harm us, but to protect us. Those standards include us dying to ourselves daily by crucifying our flesh, in which we can only do so through meditating on the Word and fellowship with Holy Spirit. The devil really enjoys carnal Christians who live by the flesh and not by the Spirit. One of his many schemes to keep them in bondage. Honest question. How many Christians do you know who are truly denying their flesh and following Christ daily? This is the question I had to ask myself. Had to take myself through a deep self-examination process. I knew that God loved me, but did I really love Him the way I was professing? In order to love me through all my frustrations, I had to learn how to fully love Him just so I could love me the way He does, which is unconditional.

My mind and emotional stability was a hot mess. I was cursing myself while cursing God for making me. I would quote verses from the book of Job. The greatest lessoned I learned from all of that is this, God loves me and He is not my enemy. Don't get me wrong, I haven't arrived but I've left that place of wanting to kill myself. At this moment, everything in my life is not perfect but my relationship with God through Christ has grown so much. I no longer deal with depression, guilt and condemnation. One of the verses that helped me overcome is this. Philippians 1:6 "That the communication of your faith may become effectual by the acknowledging every good thing in you which is in Christ." My friend, dig in the word and find out what God says about you, confess and apply it to yourself daily. Ephesians is a good book to start. What are you waiting for?
_REDEMPTION (RAP)_

(HOOK, REPEAT 2X)

God so loved the world, He gave His only Son

As a ransom for our redemption

VERSE 1

We say we're Spirit filled, but where the power at

the same power that we see in the book of Acts

We're suppose to occupy the earth till the sky cracks

Christ is waiting on us so He can come back

He's not slack with His power, it is us

but yet we say "In God we trust"

If that is true and if it's really real

then we'll fully preach the Gospel the way He did

Through the healings, through the miracles

cast out demons, cleanse the lepers

Make the deaf hear, the dump talk

raise the dead, make the lame walk

Open the eyes of the blind so they can see

all things are possible to them believe

here I am Lord, you can use me

(HOOK, REPEAT 2X)

God so loved the world, He gave His only Son

As a ransom for our redemption

VERSE 2

Shed His blood for every thug

for them bangers quick to fill you with them slugs

He died for girls stripping in the clubs

for attention because they need love

Look at our youth, they are dying

man we the church, we've been lacking

In the harvest, we've been slacking

time for some action, so with compassion

Hit the streets no matter the cost

make disciples, win the lost

And not be tossed to and fro with rejection

no need to fear, God is our protection

Against any weapon it won't prosper

no excuses go and preach the Gospel

To every nation, that's our ministry

it's the Name of Christ that sets sinners free

(HOOK, REPEAT 4X)

God so loved the world, He gave His only Son

As a ransom for our redemption

COMMENTARY: Redemption is a common theme woven all though out the Bible from Genesis 3:15 to the book of Revelation. Redemption has a strong spiritual meaning. Redemption in Biblical times meant to buy back property that was sold due to debt. Basically, it meant paying back a loan. It could also mean the freeing of slaves or helping someone come out a state of poverty. Adam sold us into sin and debt to satan through disobedience. When that happened, he sold us out to satan and the kingdom of darkness. Jesus, being the second Adam, bought us back through the shedding of His blood. The death, burial and resurrection of Christ is full proof of satan's defeat.

Ephesians 1:7 "In Him we have our redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of His grace." The moment we are born again, redemption is fully ours. We don't have to beg or pray for it. We have it automatically. Through redemption, satan's dominion comes to an end. No longer are we servants or unworthy sinners. We are sons and daughters of God through Christ. Our redemption is according to the riches of His grace, not according to our good works.

Though we don't have to work for redemption, we have to walk it out by faith. Hebrews 11:1 "Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen." Faith causes us to see things from God's point of view. In His eyes, we are fully redeemed from sin, poverty, sickness, disease, confusion and condemnation just to name a few. We have to face satan with the knowledge that he is already a defeated foe. When I say satan, not only I am talking about him, but everything under his subjection such as demons and evil spirits. We have to deal with them the same way Jesus did.

Look at our position in Christ concerning satan and his crew. Ephesians 1:19-21 "And what is the exceedingly greatness of His power toward us who believe, according to the working of His mighty power. Which He worked in Christ when He raised Him from the dead and seated Him at His right hand in the Heavenly places, far above all principality, might, dominion and every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in that which is to come. And He put all things under His feet, and gave Him to be head over all the things to the church, which is His body, the fullness of Him who fills all in all. Once you come into this knowledge and walk it our by faith, its impossible for you to live a defeated life.

The same ability in Christ is also available for every believer. So many Christians live defeated lives and let satan take advantage of them. One day, I spoke at a women's retreat. I asked how many of them are afraid of satan? To my surprise, the majority of their hands went up. Believe me, satan doesn't want you to know that he is defeated and that you have authority over him through Christ. God's ability is God's ability no matter how you look at. He lifted and raised us up with Christ. Ephesians 2:6 "And raised us up together, and made us sit together in the Heavenly places in Christ Jesus." Everything Jesus has access to is also available to us. As Christians, we need to stop selling ourselves short. Our identity is that of a new creation through Him. We are not sinners who are saved by grace. Impossible for you to be a sinner and a new creature in Christ at the same time. Either you are sinner or saint, take your place. Could it be the reason you sin is because you don't know your identity in Christ? If you think you're a sinner saved by grace, then you take on a mind set to sin. That is referred to as sin conscious. When you live from the mind of Christ, sin no longer has dominion over you.

Speaking of being a saint. You don't have to die and wait for someone to ordain you into sainthood. Neither Jesus nor any other writers of the New Testament ever taught that. The moment you got saved, born again you became a saint in the eyes of God. Sainthood starts the moment you are born again, not after you're dead. Slaughter that sacred cow. Quit referring to yourself as a sinner. You're the righteousness of God in Christ. You're not a sinner. 2 Corinthians 5:21 "For He (God) made Him (Christ) who knew no sin to be for us, that we may become the RIGHTEOUS OF GOD in Him." Christ became sin for us just so we can take on the nature of God, which is righteousness. For your benefit, quit referring to yourself as a sinner. Instead, constantly refer to yourself as the Righteousness of God in Christ.

Back in February 2012, I spoke and did some poetry for this Catholic slash Baptist revival. I was teaching on the righteousness of God and what it means for us. Afterwards, this Catholic woman who was 70 years old pulled me to the side to thank me. Explained how she was taught all of her life that she was a sinner. For the first time in her life as a Catholic, she heard the truth of her identity in Christ, which is righteousness. By no means am I knocking any domination, I'm just saying that our identity as Christians is not that of a sinner, so why even say it. Remember, there is power through the words you speak. Proverbs 18:21 "Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and those that who love it will eat its fruit." You can't live a life of righteousness by continuing to call yourself a sinner.

Let's define this term "Righteousness of God". Righteousness simple means your ability to stand before God without the sense of sin, guilt or condemnation. It simply means to be in right relationship with God through Jesus Christ. It's knowing that God is not mad at you. Romans 5:1 "Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through Jesus Christ." You have peace with God. You can approach Him without fear of Him striking you down for making a mistake.

Knowing that God is not angry with me is very liberating. Dear reader, God is not angry with you. Religion has painted this ugly picture of God being mad at humanity. To be honest with you, God is not mad at the world. Contrary to popular belief, He is not sending natural disasters, earthquakes and tsunamis to punish us. He is in a good mood. All of His wrath was poured out on Jesus at the cross. We are now living in the age of grace. 1 Thessalonians 5:9 "For God did not appoint us to wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ." We are not appointed to wrath, but to obtain salvation. The Greek word for "salvation" is "sozo." It means to save, make whole, heal, deliver, preserve and make safe. This is the plan of redemption for all of humanity. Will you join in? Let the redeemed of the Lord say so.

Credited Resource: www.faithhopeprayer.com
_DEAR J_

I was dating this girl

in the beginning, like a dummy I was naive

thought that she was perfect, like she had it all

but further investigations only revealed that

princess was fatally flawed

Yep, she had skeletons in her closet

with the broken hearts of men

who fell victim to her venom

and if I didn't escape the grip of her dominion

then I to was next in line

Can't lie, it wasn't love that had me blind

it was her honey-dipped lips

combined with a physique that stood 5'9

135 pounds of fresh produce that produced

a brilliant radiant shine, candy to the eye

Fellows, this girl was fine

You know the kind of fine that makes you look up at God

and be like, "You out did yourself this time"

for the sake of asking, "can she be my bride"

Lord I know, she is almost saved

so for the moment, I'm willing to compromise

J was like a modern day goddess

and I drunk from the water she walked on

carried her around on a golden throne

all because I was tired of being alone

After all, my pursuit of relationships

with women in the past were nothing but failed attempts

some were overboard bitter, playing to hard to get

while others were like slave masters

the moment I did something against their approval

out came the whips

I got tired of the beatings, the lashings

what else could I do but jump ship

J took advantage of this broken down Christian man

and begin to rebuild my confidence

one block at a time with counterfeit bricks

had me under major construction

though on the inside, I knew something

with her really didn't click

You know how it is, work a job you kinda don't like

but you don't wanna quit

pay is kinda good, with full time benefits

this is how it was when I was dating this chick

for some men, she was to die for

to others, she was to kill for

I was stuck in between, betwixt

Her flattery seductions

had me doing tricks, turning flips

jumping through hoops

eating her forbidden fruit

pleasing to the eye, rotten at the root

Believing her lies disguised as truth

saying stuff like, Dewayne, I am what you need

you will never find another woman like

who will support you the way I do

And if you ever leave

I can easily find another man

who will treat me way better than you

Understand

Then she would kiss me on the forehead

and gently rub my hands

Her subtle demands had my emotions

in strands and knots

though we didn't have intercourse

she was sexing me by playing with the strings of my heart

Her plot, was to get all the props

for leading me to the promise land of my destiny

but my true friends, the Jehu's in my life

knew that Jezebel and I wasn't yoked equally

She came to church with me just to appease me

but couldn't stand true spiritually authority

unless it gave her artillery

to push her agendas, goals and vision

her form of submission was only for self-glorification

to make her look good in the eyes of others, gratification

I was peeping game so she wanted to hit me up

with condemnation and depression

just so she could be my one and only obsession

crown her messiah, give her intercession

and have me on a path that in no way led to heaven

But to hell for eternity

it was then that I had to wake up

come to grips with reality

and admit that

I had a little bit of Ahab in me

fighting & warring against the Elijah in me

I wanted her so bad that she had to be bad for me

And all this time she was crucifying me

so the Word of God could not rise up to convict me

of all the wrong in my heart that was killing me

ever so softly

Oddly, my relationship with J was never a part of God's plan

honestly, how many of us can say that we dated

or married because we were in desperate need

for some kind of companion

Hand raised, guilty as charged

it all came down to this

it was either her or God

So I had to get my knowledge right

and do what God was telling me to do

when I looked at myself in the reflection of truth

J, there was no longer room for you

So I wrote this Dear J letter

but matter of fact, let me be a little more braver

and hand deliver it to you

Because breaking up through text and social media

that's for sissies and punks

So I wanted to tell you face to face

to kick you out of my life with all of your junk

You can't stay, not even on the premises

because the more I thought about Christ

it came to light that you were just a smiling nemesis

A thorn in my flesh sent from satan to buffet me

but what was used for my destruction

God used to exalt the truth of who He is

over all the lies I allowed you to be

Which means, its gives me great pleasure

to bring this to an end

J..... hit the road, you are no longer my boo

for the record, we are no longer

and can never ever be friends

COMMENTARY: If you haven't heard the poem by P4CM poet Janette..ikz "I Will Wait for You", I suggest that you pause from reading this, go to YouTube and watch it. I remember hearing her poem at a poetry event in Chicago back in February 2011. As I was listening to it, I thought to myself that it would be good for someone to write a male version. About two years later, one of my poetry friends from Chicago called and suggested that I should write a male version of "I Will Wait for You" based on my own experiences concerning dating and relationships.

In my own experience, it's really a challenge for me to find a woman who I'm attracted to on all three levels of spirit, soul and body. Not saying that she has to be perfect, but I do expect her to live by the standards of God's Word. Take it from me; compromise will get you in places and situations that are hard to get out of. In the wise words of my mother "If you don't started it, you don't have to worry about stopping it." Before you get into a relationship with anyone, I encourage you to really seek God about it, ask Him to show you their heart.

Who was J? She was a girl who I met at a local poetry event. We exchanged info and a few days later we were having lunch at Apple Bees. During the conversation I asked if she went to church, she said no. I then asked if she was a Christian, to my surprise she said no. She was proud to tell me she was a Muslim. Let me stop right here and say this. Missionary dating is a no, don't do it. Missionary dating is dating a person with different beliefs or religion for the purpose of converting that person to Christianity. Phrases include "DATING FOR JESUS" 'LOVE BOMBING" or FLIRT TO CONVERT." This concept is sometimes used to cover for or justifyto one's self, family, or religious community, romantic interest in a non-Christian in a non- Christian if the relationship might otherwise be frowned upon.

Missionary dating is dangerous because it poses the possibility that the relationship could cause the Christian to backslide. Non-Christians do not always live by Biblical standards, so the dating relationship can be big on temptation for the Christian. Different ways of living and values can be an impossible hurdle for an interfaith couple. A non-Christian may think that pre-marital sex, drinking, smoking, lying among other things is acceptable behavior and this could lead to many arguments. They may not understand that you need to go church or spend time alone to pray. Don't get me wrong; all relationships come with a set of challenges. Those challenges are a lot easier to deal with if both are pursing God and have Him at the center of their relationship.

By the time our conversation had ended, I was in the mindset of missionary dating. After all, she was one beautiful woman, nice personality, good job, no kids, educated, she was almost saved and I figured that by spending time with me, she'll convert to Christianity sooner or later, sooner than later was my goal. Before we parted ways, she asked if I was cool with her being Muslim, my response was yes, but she had no idea about my thoughts on converting her. I had no idea about her plans for me; this was a cosmic explosion waiting to happen. After that day, we started spending more time together, hanging out as friends. My first mistake in all of this is not once did I consult God, but He was happy to let me know that this wasn't going to work. You know how we can be with God sometime, thinking we know better than Him or we attempt to convince Him against His wise counsel.

My plea to God was that she was almost saved, so He should appear to her in a dream or vision to let her know that He is the One and True Savior, not Allah or Muhammad. Also, He should take a visit to the history of my past relationships with Christian women, which were nothing but failed attempts. I know all Christian women are not bad, but the ones I've tried to be with were like taskmasters. I remember one girl pitched a fit because my shirt wasn't buttoned according to her satisfaction. Another girl was emotionally hurt because of a past engagement that went wrong. I had to walk on eggshells just so she wouldn't get offended. She was the one I really wanted to be with and I was willing to work on building a solid friendship that could lead into a courtship. She had all the qualities of a Christian woman I was looking for, spirit, soul and body. She decided to part ways with me and end our friendship because of a prank that my best friend and I played on Facebook. Even to this day, she won't speak to me. I still pray for her, that she would be healed emotionally.

After her and I parted ways, I was broken and I allowed J to take advantage of me. I was tired of dealing with Christian women, so hanging out with a Muslim woman couldn't be that bad. According to my calculations, everything was going good until we had our first kiss, which changed everything and made things more complicated. If you ever find yourself in a ditch in which you dug, quit digging. After that, we begin to hangout more, this time behind closed doors. We started shopping together, going to the movies and cooking dinner together among other things. Talk about late night visits early into the A.M cuddled up together on the couch. Though we never had sexual intercourse, we had plenty of close calls, more than I would like to admit.

By this time feelings and emotions were heavily involved. After I left her house after one of our close encounters, I felt bad and asked God for forgiveness, to which He forgave me and reminded me of what He told me in the beginning concerning her. He said it was time for me to break it off. What made matters worse is that she went to church with me a few times and started asking questions about Jesus and the rapture. How could I break it off after her curiosity about Christianity began to spark? As hard as it was, I decided to be obedient and break it off. I decided this should be done face to face. Went to visit her a few days later to break the news to her. Explained how we couldn't be together anymore because of our different beliefs. She didn't take the news to well. Gave her a hug, said I was sorry and left. As I was walking to my truck, she sent me a text message saying how she was heart broken. Stopped in my tracks and went back to her apartment in an attempt to console her.

Her door was unlocked so I just walked in. She was in her bedroom lying in bed crying. I don't do well with tears, especially with someone I care about. She was quick to tell me how this was all my fault. In the beginning I told her I was cool with her being Muslim, how that wouldn't interfere with my faith. She threw the guilt trip on me so quick with her tears and it worked, she knew what she was doing. Just as fast as I ended things between us, we were back together. Found myself in a deeper ditch and I kept digging. I chose to not to break her heart and disobey God at the same time. She found comfort in knowing that now she had me wrapped around her finger and that I wasn't leaving her. Her weapon of condemnation and depression was now on full blast. My close friends knew I was in trouble and advised me on escape routes.

After this, our relationship lasted for another few weeks. She got brave, started mocking Christianity and blasting Christ with remarks. During this time my conviction started to override my feelings for her. The more she made these remarks; God's voice became clearer on what I needed to do. Somehow, I needed to take compete control concerning the situation before we ended up exchanging wedding vows. Through her, I allowed satan to take advantage of my loneliness and past relationship failures. She was nothing more than a messenger of satan sent to buffet me. I'm not saying she was a devil; she was just operating under his influence.

This was one emotional roller coaster. I really did care about her but had to do what was best though I knew she wouldn't really see it like that. Even her own father said it wasn't good for us to date because of our different beliefs. I made sure it was daytime to finally be obedient and break up with her. As I broke the news to her again for the second time, she was more distraught and her comments about the Bible didn't go over to well with me. She said I shouldn't base my decision and emotions on what I got out of some book, I should follow my heart like she was doing. This time I was firm, stood my ground while hurt flooded my emotions as I saw her face swell up with tears. As she was crying, I hugged her and said its best that we shouldn't be friends or have anymore contact. Afterwards, I gently let her go, said my goodbyes and walked out the door. I can honestly say that if she were a Christian, we would have been married by now. Don't compromise my friend, not worth it no matter how much you may be attracted to the other person. Save yourself from pitfalls, disappointments and heartaches. Pray about the person and if God says no, listen to Him, He knows best.
_SEXANOMICS_

B.C..............Before Christ

your boy was a bonafide player

certified whoremonger

caught up into the sexual life

Game was on point, sharp as a knife

thinking sex could quench my thirst like sprite

Yep, I was a detonator and the girl's body

the bombsite set to destroy everything in sight

the moment we ignite

wrongfully and passionately engaging in something

that God made for a husband and wife

But still, sex was like the perfect way of escape

from all the hurt and void I felt on the inside

but little did I know the hurt and void

got worse each time I laid between a woman's thighs

Wish someone would of took out time

to teach me as a youth that fornication

came with a dark side

that would torment my mind day and night

something called soul-ties

Why, because every time I had sex with girl

I would be connecting my soul

to unknown personalities, unpleasant emotions

unwanted compulsions, convulsions and explosions

all because I was promoting my sexual desires

over God's law of motion

Boasting in my so called player stats

bragging to my homies about

how many women I slept with

breaking the hearts of many women

and leaving them with nothing but regrets

All the in the name of sex

In society is masqueraded as innocent fun

but the truth is, God created sex

for a husband and wife to be joined together as one flesh

so anything less than that is like taking a loaded gun to your head

and playing a deadly game of Russian Roulette

so the next time you decide to pull the trigger could be your very last breath

You want proof

Proverbs 6:32: A person who commits adultery

lacks judgment and destroys their self

why, because the wages of sin is death

meaning death can hit your finances, relationships and health

What's so sad is that we as Christians have the nerve to expect

for God to truly bless the works of our hands

after our hands has been up and down the body of the opposite sex

from penises, vaginas, legs, buts, breast and hips

mouths in places it shouldn't be and expect God

to receive worship from the fruit of our lips

Come on now, prayer closets are filled up

with chains, whips, vibrators, toys and sex swings

when our stance should solely be no masturbating

no oral sex, no ring-no ding

if you're not married to me, then you're not having sex with me

Celibacy until the day we marry should be our constant pursuit

if you are married, then no one else but your spouse should be having sex with you

let along touching you, arousing you

getting you to go against the vows you made

before God and men, promising to be faithful

forsaking all others until the day your spouse is six feet in the grave

Faithfulness, obedience are the ways of the Lord

and we should not compromise

or give into the ways of the world

who changed the truth of God into a lie

It is His will that we all be sanctified

my body, your body was made for Lord

and the Lord for the body

If you can't control yourself, then it is better to marry than to burn with passion

it is to your benefit that you submit to God and keep your the flesh under subjection

Especially when the media has sex as the center of attention

like models on runways rocking the latest fashions with cameras flashing

When the true picture is abstinence

there should be a solid difference

between the world and the church

them and us

I feel for the person who doesn't know the difference

between love and lust

Get this; you are too valuable in the sight of God

to settle for anything less than His absolute best

Meaning, when you commit fornication

you are cheating yourself

in essence you are saying that

you don't truly honor God

and that you don't really value your own assets

With every sexual encounter

you are spreading yourself so thin

that you run the risk of loosing yourself in the process

all because you gave in to the lust of the flesh

Being a fool for fake gold

satan has tricked us into believing

that the path of purity is a secret hidden road

or a not so reachable goal in life

When the truth is, purity is a requirement

for anyone who names the Name of Christ

Let that person depart from iniquity

sexual immorality isn't wrong

because it can lead to homosexuality

STDs, HIV, rape or unwanted pregnancy

But because God is Holy

and has called us to be a reflection

of His image and glory

Which is far from what I see

in these churches of today

profession Christians are caught up in sexcapades

ministers' wives are being played

and little kids are being molested

by pastors and priests

The very ones who are suppose

to be Spiritual and restore the weak

you can't even trust because some are under cover freaks

Wolves, raging wolves in sheep's attire

when the Bible is plain

that all fornicators, adulteress and whoremongers

will spend eternity in the lake of fire

Please don't get me wrong, we have sexual desires

in fact, we were created with sexual urges

but when Adam sinned in the garden

what God created as pure and Holy

satan twisted it and perverted it

Now we are subject to sexual temptation

but we must watch and pray that we don't enter in

Just because you're a Christian

doesn't give you permission to live in perpetual sin

Because true repentance is Godly sorrow working

with the intention of never committing

that same ole sin again

I'm not in this to preach does and don'ts

rules and regulations

all I'm saying is that sanctification

is a lifestyle not a domination

Don't see this as condemnation

but as conviction for you to walk in the truth

which is to whom ever you yield your members to

those you are a slave to

Whether its slaves to sin or slaves to righteousness

slaves to satan or slaves to Christ

but remember when it comes to masters

you can't serve two

It is satan who wants you to have sex before marriage

but Christ wants you to wait

So make a daily decision to walk in the grace of God

to resist sexual sin every moment of every day

especially for today

So A.D.......... AFTER DEATH, death to self

I am now walking in light

your boy is no longer a bonafide player

certified whoremonger caught up into

the sexual life

I've found something far greater

which is the Love of Christ

My strength is practicing abstinence

and in my 11 plus years of being a Christian

I admit, I've slipped every now and then

but now I'm restored and forgiven

and I can honestly tell you

that until the day I marry

I will never have sex again

COMMENTARY: We live in a day and time where sexual imagery is everywhere from music, movies, commercials, T.V shows, advertisement, billboards, clothing just to name a few. Years ago there used to be separate worlds for children. Now they are exposed to the same things adults experience. Today we have very young parents and we aren't protecting our children from all of this sexual imagery. The average kid is introduced to some kind of sexual content at the age of seven. Is that fair to the kid, to have their innocent mind corrupted by something that is not pure?

I was introduced to playboy magazine at the age of 13 or 14. I use to hide them from my mom. There were times my friends and I would gather together in my room, lock the door and happily look at naked women. Not only that, but I collected the beauty of the week pictures from Jet Magazine. Every time I got my hands on a Jet Magazine, first thing I would do was turn to page 43 to lustfully look at the beauty of the week. Don't get me started on the rap videos that aired on BET. My favorite video was "Rump Shaker" by Wreck-X-N-Effect. Matter of fact, think I had that video recorded just I could look at half naked women in bikinis with nice buts.

By the time I was 15, my little mind was filled with all this sexual imagery. After that, I started dating this girl about the same age as me. We spent some major time together at my place and hers. One of her older brothers use to come pick me up and take me back to their apartment. Her family loved me and I loved them, they trusted me. One particular evening, her mother went to the grocery store to buy food for dinner. There we were, two teens in puppy love left alone for about two hours. We started kissing and touching each other, one thing led to another. Then it happened, that was the night I lost my virginity. After that night, I became addicted to sex. All the imagery in my mind was now becoming a reality.

Not only was I the best freestyle rapper walking the streets of Lexington, I was now a young sex machine. After all, sex and rap is what I used to ease the pain of not having my father around. Sex gave me a sense of control, a sense of invincibility. The older guys and friends taught me how to fine-tune my game since I was already good with words. I would sweet talk a girl so quick; feel up her ears with sweet nothings just to have sex with her. Some girls were easy, others were a work of art, but nonetheless it worked. I was sexually active with many girls; it is only by the grace of God I didn't catch anything. I used to brag to my friends about how many girls I had sex with. I didn't realize the pain, regret and heart breaks these girls suffered because of me. In my eyes it was all fun and games.

Out of all the advice I got from older guys and teachers concerning sex, no one ever told me about soul-ties. Urban dictionary defines soul-ties as this. A soulful/emotional connection you have with someone after being intimate with them, usually engaging in sexual intercourse. To the point that when you want to rid them from your mind and life, even when you are far from them and out of their presence you still feel as if they are apart of you and apart of you is with them, causing you to feel as though a part of you is missing, as if you've given up some of yourself that is tangible that cannot be easily possessed again.

Each time you have sex with a person, all the people they've had sex with is now connected to your soul and all the people you've had sex with is now connected to their soul. In the eyes of God, you are married to every person you have had sex with until you call on His Name and break that soul tie in the name of Jesus. Jesus even taught on soul ties when He encountered the woman at the well. John 4:16-19 "Jesus said to her, "Go, call your husband, and come here." The woman answered and said, I have no husband." Jesus said unto her, "You have well said, "I have no husband." For you have had five husbands, and the one who you are with now is not your husband; in that you spoke truly."

When this woman committed fornication with these men, Jesus referred to those men as her husbands. How many people are you married to? Is that time of sexual intimacy outside of marriage worth you having soul ties? What will you give in exchange for your soul? These days a lot of Christians are regularly hooking up at bars and parties, sleeping with boyfriends and girlfriends with no plans of marriage. More than that, they don't feel bad about it. I pray for those Christians and their heart towards God. John 4:24 "God is Spirit, and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and truth." If you are a Christian having sex outside of marriage, you are not worshipping God in spirit and truth. We expect God to bless the works of our hands after our hands have been up and down the body of the opposite sex, in some cases up and down the body of the same sex. We also out put our mouths in places it shouldn't be and expect God to receive worship from the fruit of our lips. So many Christians have sex toys in their bedrooms and closets. My friend, dear reader, these things shouldn't be. Mathew 5:8 "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God." Psalm 24:3-4 "Who shall ascend to the hill of the Lord? Or may stand in His Holy Place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart. Who has not lifted up his soul to an idol?

When I got saved back in 2000, I went six years without having sex. I wore that like a badge of honor, full of pride, thought I was untouchable. Between 2006 and 2009, I messed up and had sex with four women and a few close calls. Trust me, I know how hard of a challenge it is to stay pure and holy. We have the mindset that God will forgive us if we have sex. He will forgive us but we shouldn't use that as an excuse to do so. We want to know how much we can get away and still be saved. Don't fall into that; it's a trap from satan. Its all fun and games until you have a child on the way or find out your sex partner infected you with some STD or HIV. Proverbs 6: 27 "Can a person take fire in their bosom and not be burned?" Sex is a gift from God intended for marriage, outside of that its venomous poison. Look at how many people have lost their way because of adultery and fornication. Look at all the sex scandals in the media. Look at the number of Pastors, ministers and Catholic Priest caught up in some kind of sexual catastrophe. Look at how many marriages end up in divorce because of adultery.

Fornication, homosexuality, adultery, oral sex and masturbation are all equally wrong in the eyes of God. What are we suppose to do as Christians when we are faced with these things? Run in the opposite direction as in terror. 1 Corinthians 6:18-20 " Flee sexual immorality. Every sin that a person does is outside the body, but they who commits sexual immorality sins against their own body. Do you not know that YOUR BODY is the temple of the Holy Spirit Who is in you, Whom you have from God, and you are not your own? You were bought with a price; therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's." Once you become a Christian, you have to live by the standard of God's Word as mentioned before. Not for His benefit, He loves you regardless. Living holy and righteous is for your benefit. Keeps your conscious clean. How do you get free from sexual immorality? By daily setting your affections on Christ. By knowing your weaknesses and minimizing them much as possible. Will it be easy? No. Is it worth it? Absolutely.
_GOOD LIFE (RAP)_

Intro

It is the good life

Life in Christ is always good

Despite trials and tribulations

But in Christ we overcome the world

We have the victory

VERSE 1

Roll with Christ, got it made

got this good life when I got saved

Twelve years ago, let it all go

changed everything even switched up my flow

Justified, forgiven, not condemned

won't compromise, live my life for Him

Feel so good to be so free

I'm redeemed from poverty and disease

Indulging in the blessings from up above

don't walk in hate because of His love

Shed abroad in my heart by His Spirit

Jehovah Jirah, keep Him lifted

I've been shifted unto a brighter path

I will rejoice for He has made me glad

Now I laugh in the face of my enemies

God is for me who can be against me

(HOOK)

No matter what it looks like

No matter what it seems like

I have the good life

Just as long as I have you

VERSE 2

He's the way, He's the truth

He's the vine, we're the branches gotta bear fruit

When it comes to sin kill it at the root

like wheat, satan's desire is to sift you

Christ has prayed for you, that you fail not

take the Word of God and planted deep in your heart

Let it marinate, let it saturate

and occupy space like real estate

His grace is too good to evacuate

like Abraham He wants to make your name great

Let Him elevate you to a higher place

where there is peace, find rest in His grace

Let His goodness overtake you

His love is like the rain, let it flood you

His favor is the shield that surrounds you

Jehovah Tsidkenue, the Lord of our breakthrough

(HOOK)

No matter what it looks like

No matter what it seems like

I have the good life

Just as long as I have you

Why be sick when you can be healed

why be empty when you can be filled

With His best, nothing less

good news, you don't have to be depressed

Power in your words, careful what you speak

what you sow, you will also reap

Slaughter all your doubts put an end to unbelief

keep your eyes on Christ so you don't sink

Stay linked up with the King of Days

In the wilderness He can make a way

Don't delay your praise, don't be slack

your past is dust in the wind so why even look back

Gotta walk by faith and not by sight

faith in Christ is the way to the good life

Rest in Him, fight the good faith

stand strong in the power of His might

(HOOK: 4X)

No matter what it looks like

No matter what it seems like

I have the good life

Just as long as I have you

COMMENTARY: "God is good and all the time God is good" is a cliché floating around in Christian and secular circles. Its true that God is good is all time but can you honestly say that for yourself without feeling some kind of resentment toward God? Have you ever said to God "If You are so good, then why did this bad thing happen to me?" Why did my father leave me? Why did You let my mom die?" If we truly believe that God is good all the time, then why do we blame Him for all the bad things that happened to us in our past? If we believe that He is good, then why do we get mad at Him when things don't go right in our lives? All of us at one time or another has asked God these kinds of questions or has blamed Him for something outside of His character. If these questions go unanswered or unresolved, then we can find ourselves living in offence toward God, which can makes things worse. Mathew 11:6 " And blessed (happy, fortunate, and to be envied) is the person who takes no offence at Me (Jesus) and finds no cause for stumbling in or through Me and is not hindered from seeing the Truth." When you live unoffended toward God, you are blessed, happy, fortunate and to be envied.

With me, it took much prayer, worship and mediating on the Word to get rid of any offence I had toward God. Was it easy? Not at all. Just when I thought I had it under control, more failures and disappointments would show up in my life. There were times that I got so angry and mad at God that I would bombard His ears and the ears of Angels with f-bombs. After my fits, He would whisper to me "Dewayne, I'm not your enemy." Then I would feel this soothing peace rise up in me. God loves you so much that He will still comfort you during your times of anger and disappointment toward Him. I can honestly say that now every ounce of offence in my heart and mind toward God is gone. A wise person once told me that what ever you focus on the most will get bigger and consume you. Either you can focus on offence or the goodness of God.

Why do we blame God and take offence toward Him when bad things happen? The answer is in plain sight so much that we miss it. Much of humanity has an unhealthy diet concerning the Sovereignty of God. We've been taught that God is sovereign, He is control of everything. Since we think He is in control of everything, then we blame Him for everything that went wrong because He could have stopped it. This is one of the worst doctrines in the church today; it can be fatal to our faith and relationship with God. Think about it, if you were the devil; wouldn't you do everything to make people believe that God is control of everything just to take the focus off of you? Hate to say it, but satan has fooled the majority of the church world into believing this.

The word "sovereign" is not used in the King James Version of the Bible. It is used 303 times in the Old Testament of the New International Version, but is always used in association with the word "Lord" and is equivalent of the King James Version's "Lord." Not a single time is the word "sovereign" used in the manner that it has come to be used in religious and secular circles. Religions meaning of "sovereignty" is this. God controls everything. Nothing can happen but He wills or allows. Nothing in the original Hebrew or Greek has this meaning for the word "sovereignty". The true meaning of it is this. Infinite Creator, King, Supreme Being, Independent and Lord God just to name a few. None of these meanings mean that God controls everything. If God controls everything, He sure does have this world in a huge mess. If God is in control of everything, that means He is in control of all the rape, murder, stealing, divorce, bankruptcy, earthquakes and natural disasters that happens on the earth. If God were like this, I wouldn't

come close to being in a relationship with Him. Would you knowingly date a murderer or a thief?

The truth is God is not in control of everything. We live in a fallen world where humanity has free will. Also, satan has a lease on the earth and is referred to as "the god of this world" and "the prince of the air." Don't get it twisted; satan can make it rain on earth and I'm not only talking about money. To say that God is in control of everything takes the responsibility off you and your actions. As a Christian, you have to live by faith. Faith is how you receive from God and resist the devil. Without faith, you can only experience the goodness of God in a small measure. By faith you acknowledge the goodness of God in your life. The more you acknowledge it, the more you'll see it in operation in your life. By faith, you'll no longer blame God for all the bad stuff.

Psalm 34:8 " Oh taste and see that the Lord is good; blessed is the person who trust is Him! This is a personal invite for you to taste the goodness of God for yourself. For a moment, think of your favorite food and how good it taste. Now multiply that by infinity, God is that good. Think of it like this. Good God, bad devil. Jesus made it plain that satan comes to still, kill and destroy. If something in your life is not lining up with the goodness of God, check your words and any possible demonic hindrance from satan's kingdom. Your words either cause the goodness of God to come to pass or satan's will to come to pass. God is worthy of being worshiped, and only a Being such as Him who is perfectly good is worthy of worship. Because of past or current events in your life, it may be hard for you to taste and see the goodness of God.

Let me help you out in this from personal experience. If you are not seeing and tasting the goodness of God, satan has you blinded and fooled you. 2 Corinthians 4:3-4 "But even if our Gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost. In whom the god of this world has blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious Gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them."

You can be saved and still be lost. No longer let satan use circumstances to blind you from the goodness of God. The Gospel is good news for you right now no matter what you are facing or dealing with. If you stay stuck in that pit, you can't blame God. You have to constantly remind yourself of His goodness. If you are in a bad situation, thank God for His goodness. He didn't cause it but He can sure turn it around for your good like He did in the case of Joseph in the Old Testament. God is not a respecter of persons, but He is a respecter of faith. God will allow what you allow in your life. God can't and will not resist satan for you, that is your responsibility. He will equip you with the tools and weapons you need to live a victorious life.

James 1:16-17 "Do not be deceived, my beloved brethren. Every good and perfect gift is from above from the Father of Lights, with Whom there is no variation or shadow of turning." Since every good and perfect gift comes from God in Heaven and in Heaven there is no poverty or sickness among other evil things, then we have to stop blaming God for all the bad stuff. Trust me, by no means am I minimizing tragedy in your life. I've been through some horrific stuff in my life. Trials and tribulations are real. We all face them from time to time. We can take comfort in knowing that God is good and through Christ we are more than conquers. Jesus conquered death, hell and the grave. He's already made a statement of victory for you. Take that, go and live the Good Life

Credited Resource: http://www.awmi.net
_WHO IS HE_

God is the Uncreated Creator the Maker of Earth & Heaven

who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing for us to overcome

He is the light in the sun

He puts the twinkle in the stars and He calls them by name

He is the same yesterday, today and forever

You cannot measure His grace but once you truly taste

It is impossible to resist

God is an Artist, His creation is the masterpiece

the clouds are the dust of His feet

He never slumbers nor sleeps so He is only a prayer away

available twenty-four hours a day

So if one sheep goes astray He leaves behind

the ninety-nine, turned water into wine

Omnipresent, so He is everywhere at the same time

Divine is my Savior, He is Alpha and Omega

In His image He made you so there is no one greater

Than Emmanuel who stands strong in His glory

the Bible is His story about His mercy that never stops

In the words of King David "God is my refuge, He is my Rock"

Behold He stands at the door and knock so want you invite Him in

it is only by His blood that can wash away our sin

He is our friend who is pure and upright

so if you ever question His love, then ask Him about His stripes

He is the bread of life perfect in all of His ways

so give honor and praise to the Holy Lamb

who is He

He is the GREAT I AM

COMMENTARY: I wrote this poem back in 2003 while I was at a youth camp in Branson Missouri. I was surrounded with nothing but nature. I was taking in all the beautiful scenery from trees, mountains, green grass, hills, mountains and streams. At this time, I was only saved for about three years. As I was looking around at the beauty of creation, for the first time in my life as a Christian, I asked God "Who Are You?" This poem is the response that He gave me. God is so awesome that He calls every star by name. Stars are not scattered randomly throughout space, they are gathered together into vast groups known as galaxies. Astronomers estimate that there are about 100 thousand million stars in the Milky Way Galaxy alone. There are millions upon millions of other galaxies filled with over 100 thousands million stars in each one. Let me say this is again; God calls each star by name. There are stars in the universe that are 100 times bigger than our Sun. Just imagine how big that makes Him. One night, go outside and gaze around at the stars in the sky. After that, read Psalm 8. The universe alone is His brilliant masterpiece.

I'm talking about your God, my God, the Great I am. The One who loves you unconditionally. The One who knew you before you were formed in your mother's womb. A part of you, your spirit has never had a beginning, always existed with God. One day I was talking to my eight-year-old niece Daehja. I asked her where she was at before she was born. She responded, "I was in Heaven with God." In order for you to know who you really are, you have to know who He because you came from Him. Is your daily activity centered on pursuing and getting to know Him better than you did yesterday. If not, you are missing out. Hebrews 11:6 " But without faith it is impossible to please Him, for they who come to God must believe that He is, and that He is a rewarder of them who diligently seek Him." Sadly, there are millions of Christians who fill the pews of churches on Sunday morning who really don't know God. There is a difference between knowing someone and knowing of someone. Moses knew God, but the children of Israel only knew of Him and His acts, big difference. Daniel 11:32 " But the people who know their God shall be strong, and carry out great exploits."

To know someone, you have to spend time with them and build a relationship over time. You really can't get to know someone by spending one day a week with them for only two hours tops in the company of other people. What if I wanted to get to know you, but only invited you over my house once a week with crowds of other people. That is how a large majority of churchgoers do God, and expect to know Him for real, what a slap in His face. What if I was trying to date a girl and only saw her once a week with other people around, she wouldn't stick around to long. Knowing God and who He is requires you being intimately involved with Him only a daily bases. After all, He is available 24 hours/7 days a week. Wow, you have unlimited access to God anytime of the day, talk about the best data plan.

To know God is to love Him. When you learn to love Him, you'll yearn to know Him more and the cycle repeats itself. Want to get rid of sinful habits, doubt and unbelief, spend intimate time with Him. When you spend that kind of time with Him, you'll begin to take on His characteristics, one being love. Go and study each person throughout the Bible who did great things for God. You'll see that they were in close fellowship with God. What if you had unlimited access to your favorite celebrity because they wanted you to know them? Would you take them up on their challenge? God yearns and desires to be intimate with you. Look at the life of Jesus and see how he stayed in communion with God the Father. Jesus set the main example of how we should get to know God. This is so good that I'll continue this in the commentary of "God Spoke."
_GOD SPOKE_

I have been with you always, even at times you didn't know

from out of your mother's womb to a man, I've watched you grow

Even as a youth when you were down in despair

feeling lonesome and hopeless because your father wasn't there

But I was there by your side though all the pain and strife

when you were suicidal, I didn't let you take your life

When that gun was at your head, I told death to flee

if I didn't step in to save your life, tell Me where would you be

If you would have made it on your own, you wouldn't have thought I was real

but look how I kept you when you were in the world sinning, living outside my will

I didn't give up on you; so don't give up on Me

only walk by faith and not what you see

I'm always on time so never mix delay with denial

know I'm here with you as you pass through the fire

Just ask the saints around you about all the storms I brung them through

I'm not a respecter of person, did it for them, surely I can do it for you

Lean not toward your own understanding, just trust and believe

told you in My Word to ask and you shall receive

Because with Me, nothing is impossible, proven I'm able

just by waking you up each and putting food on your able

Be faithful over these things and I'll make you the head and not the tail

even as I told Peter "Upon this rock, I will build My Church"

and the gates of hell shall not prevail

But you have to be willing and obedient, that's all I ask you for

I gave My life for you at Calvary, now let Me have yours

So we can be one in wholeness and nothing shall tear us apart

remember these words "The day you hear my voice, harden not your heart"

Thus saith the Lord, I have spoken

COMMENTARY: This is another poem I wrote back in 2003. When God gave it to me, I was blown away. This is one of my more intimate poems. Knowing the voice of God is essential for every Christian. Without knowing the voice of God, satan and demons will have a field day with you. How do I know, they did it to me? The devil is slick; he'll speak to you and have you believe its God. It amazes me how many Christians know the voice of satan but don't know the voice of God. I was speaking at a youth event to about two hundred youth. I told to them to close their eyes, to which they did. I then asked how many of them knew the voice of God. To my surprise, only about a third of the hands went up. My fellow Christians, without a shadow of doubt, you must know the voice of God.

To really know someone, you have to know their voice. As a Christian, you have to know God intimately for yourself. Your eternal life is based on you personally knowing God. John 17:3 "And this is life eternal, that they may know You the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom You have sent." This word "know" in the Greek carries these meanings. To learn of, come to know, have knowledge of and to become acquainted with. This is simply saying that we have to know God in a personal intimate way. We are called into fellowship with the GodHead bodily.

When I talk about hearing the voice of God, I'm not talking hearing an audible voice from the sky. I'm talking about hearing His voice in your heart and mind. His voice is full of peace, joy and love. God is always speaking to us but we don't always hear Him like we should. Think about it. How much time do you spend in learning the voice of God? How often do you get alone just to fellowship with Him? How often do talk to Him when walking to school or driving somewhere? God is speaking to you right now. Do you hear him? I have a challenge for you. Go find a quiet spot free from all distraction including your cell phone for about thirty minutes. Sit in the dark if you have to. In the beginning, ask God to speak to you during that time. If He doesn't speak to you, I'll give you twenty-dollars. Just send me an email: dspoet1@yahoo.com so we can arrange payment arrangements. This is how much confidence I have in His desire to fellowship with you. Don't read another paragraph of my book without taking the challenge. In the note section at the end, write down what He said to you. Imagine what would happen if you did this everyday?

How was your thirty-minute quiet session with God? This is what I do everyday much as possible. Slowly but surely I'm learning to get rid of all the distractions. If hell has one

characteristic, it is that of distraction. If Heaven has one characteristic, is that of you knowing the presence and voice of God. We are designed and fashioned by God to live in constant fellowship with Him. What does that look like? Glad you ask. Let's explore the best example, the life of Jesus.

Everything Jesus did on earth, He did it under the guidance of God by the leading of Holy Spirit. John 12:49-50 " For I have not spoken on My own authority; but the Father who sent Me gaveme a command, what I should say and what I should speak. I know that His command is everlasting life. Therefore, whatever I speak, just as the Father has told Me, so I speak." What if every Christian lived in this place of fellowship? How much different would churches look? How would this impact the world around us? This can start in your own personal life. What if you woke up every morning and said, "Good morning Holy Spirit, You are my lead, You are guide?" Speak to my heart concerning the will of God for me today." Imagined if you kept that gate of communication open with Him all through out the day? How much better will your day be?

Holy Spirit knows all of you; He knows everything about the world around you and your future. What if you were at the right place at the right time all the time? This is very much possible. I'm still learning to follow His lead; I have a long way to go. What I'm telling you is my daily routine. Holy Spirit is so vital to our daily life so much so that Jesus didn't do any miracles until Holy Spirit descended on Him after John baptized him. Jesus was on the earth for thirty years before He healed anyone. The first recorded miracle after this was Him turning water into wine. Since Jesus needed the guidance of Holy Spirit, how much more do we need Holy Spirit and His guidance? Are we any better than Jesus? For the record, Holy Spirit is not an it, He is a real person on the earth to assist the church and each believer to accomplish the will of God.

Holy Spirit is passed off as some kind of divine energy source. He is just much a divine Being as God the Father and God the Son. They are separate but equal in unity with different roles. God the Father could not speak light into existence on the earth without Holy Spirit. Genesis 1:2-3 "The earth was without form, and void; and darkness was on the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. Then God said, "Let there be light", and there was light." The Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters, THEN God said let there be light. This is a powerful example of the role of Holy Spirit in creation, He's been here on earth since Genesis 1:2.

We have seen how God the Father and God the Son relied on Holy Spirit. Before Jesus ascended back to Heaven, He gave instructions to his followers. Acts 1:4-5, 8 "Being assembled together with them, He commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the Promise of the Father, "Which He said, "you have heard from me; for John truly baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with Holy Spirit not many days from now. But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be witnesses to Me in Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria and to the end of the earth. The only thing they could do was wait and pray. They couldn't go out and minister in these cities until Holy Spirit came. Since they couldn't do it, they why do we? Maybe that's the reason for all of these seeker friendly churches planted all across America. Just my two cents. How many Christians do you know who are actually baptized with Holy Spirit and filled with power? I suggest and encourage you to read John 14, 15 and 16 to see what Jesus said concerning Holy Spirit.

# _UNBORN REALITY_

She would have been 14 years of age if living today

I can only imagine the sweet beautiful smile on her face

graced with puppy dog cheeks and dimples

that she have used against me just get her way

followed by thank you daddy

I'm out, deuces, holler at you later

right before my very eyes, poof, gone like a vapor

AND SHE WAS, GONE LIKE A VAPOR

Taken from behind my back

didn't have a chance to fend for her life

in hopes of keeping her alive

my baby girl, tortured, crucified

Just like her, 3300 unborn babies

are reported as being aborted every single day

1. 2 million a year, what does our nation have to say

about murdering over 53 million of their own babies

since 1973, Roe vs. Wade

This massacre has slayed more babies than every American

that has ever been killed on all the battlefields

from all the wars in U.S history combined

abortion, WHAT A DISGRACE

fully defined, fully wrong

Unfortunately very few people are willing to speak out

strong against it, so the carnage continues to go on and on and on

Because some girls and guys have become to afraid

to face the reality and responsibility

of bringing a child into this world

so they choose to abort....what a poverty

Sadly I can't help but to wonder just how many

of these UNBORN babies would have become

ATHLETES, FILMMAKERS, TEACHERS

MUSICIANS and GREAT POETS just to name a few

And if you listen closely, just like Abel, their blood is crying out

from the ground from where it was spewed

Question, how are abortion clinics any different

from the early concentration camps ran

by the Nazi's and Hitler that murdered the Jews

Yes, this will make many people feel uncomfortable

but so what, it is truth, it is real

go ahead, shoot me down, criticize me

tell me I should keep my lips sealed

because I don't understand

that it's a woman's right to have an abortion

especially if incest was involved or she was raped by a man

I don't deny what happened, it was an unfortunate tragic incident

but I do deny the actions of stripping away

the existence of unborn children

Listen to a description detailing one method of abortion

Guided by an ultrasound, the abortionist grabs the baby's leg with force

and delivers the entire body except for the head into the birth canal

scissors are jammed into the skull and opened until the skull is cracked

a mini vacuum is then inserted sucking the baby's brains out

causing the skull to collapse, the dead baby is then removed

from the MOTHER'S WOMB and disposed of

so tell me, does this sound like murder to you

If not, consider this

if you kill a pregnant woman, you'll be charged with two counts of homicide

get this, you'll go to prison for killing a bald eagle's egg

but not for abortion, sure puts human life in perspective, doesn't it

This poem is not to condemn anyone for past choices to abort

but to educate and inform

That we as a nation cannot continue to support the distortion of this poison

might as well legalize extortion, cheer on gunman who shoot up schools for fun

support terrorist attacks, go back to the old days and ways

of segregation between the whites and blacks

Hey, I'm just here to lay out the facts despite much opposition

If you are pregnant and considering abortion, I plead with you

to reevaluate your decision with precision

because in you is another human being

breathing, living and receiving your oxygen

the beautiful thing about life, it all begins at conception

For any mother who has ever felt her baby

grow, move and kick on the inside of her

or any father who has ever seen

the tiny little heart beat of his child

pulsing on the ultra sound screen

Should both agree that abortion is all about ending a life

I certainly support a woman's right to choose

but to me the time to choose was before

her and the guy decided to let their bodies collide

and explore so called sexual thrills

Just for the record you can still get pregnant

using condoms, taking shots or popping the pill

birth control is not 100% preventable

don't believe the hype

But true birth control is practicing

abstinence until your wedding night

Sex was created by God for a husband and wife

to be fruitful and multiply, supply the earth with life

But society has changed the truth of God into a lie

loving darkness more than His light

treating Christ like He is the bad guy

when in fact it is His word that we should

live and abide by

In which He states

that all MURDERERS will have their place in the pit

unless they fully turn to Him and repent

To anyone involved in abortion, this all about redemption

only through Christ can you be forgiven

made complete and whole, find rest for your soul, refreshing

To the parents, rest assure your child forgives you

they are resting in the presence of God in Heaven

Which brings me back to my baby girl

wish you were here on earth, just so I could spoil you

and see that sweet beautiful smile on your face

but until we meet in Heaven.... in my heart

you will always have a special place.....

UNBORN REALITY

COMMENTARY: A really good friend of Norman Fischer, a Catholic Priest suggested that I should write a poem about abortion given my past experience. It wasn't automatic, the idea sat with me for almost a year. God started to deal with me about writing it. I can honestly tell you this was the hardest poem for me to write and still is the hardest one for me to recite. You don't really hear much from post-aborted males, how abortion affects them in the years to come. So much research went into this poem that I had to write in a way that covered all the bases while providing hope and restoration along with my own personal testimony. I had so much information that I had to cut it down from a ten minute poem to a seven minute one while reciting it.

About two years before I became a Christian, I was seriously dating this one girl for about six months. At the particular time, she had a four-year-old daughter whose father was in prison. One day she called and told me she was pregnant. I knew the baby was mine because I was the only guy she was having sex with. We discussed what route we should go from there. Her concern was being a single mother with two kids so an abortion would be in her best interest. I explained to her that she should have the baby and let me have full custody, problem solved. She didn't take me seriously. Two weeks went by before we spoke again. Our next conversation wasn't a pleasant one. She called and informed me that she had the abortion. I was silent for a while. We said our good byes and haven't spoken since, which was almost fifteen years ago. I constantly think about my daughter. Imagine my thought process when Norman suggested I should write a poem about abortion.

The practice of abortion dates back to ancient times but for the sake of time we'll discuss this more in depth concerning our culture, day and age. Abortion was first targeted at black communities in the early 1900's. It was initiated in 1939 by Margaret Sanger, founder of Planned Parenthood, funded by the government. She persuaded a few reluctant, yet incredibly influential, black ministers to join her in her birth control movement. To dispel the rising doubts among those who objected because of moral and religious reasons, she wrote, "The ministers work is almost as important. We have to train them because we don't want the word to go out that we want to exterminate the Negro population and black ministers are the people who can straighten out the idea if it ever occurs to any of their rebellious members." The simple truth is that through government funds, they wanted to kill off the black race. Nearly 40% of abortions come from African Americans who only make up 14% of the American population. Back then, African Americans only made up 9.8% of the American population. Sounds like an extermination plan to me. The NEGRO PROJECT is what she called it.

Since 1973, Roe vs. Wade, our nation has killed over 53 million babies through abortion. That is more than every American that has ever been killed on all the battlefields from all the wars in U.S History combined. Over 3300 abortions are reported each day on average. Unfortunately, not many people are willing to speak out strong against it, so the carnage continues to go on and on. Unless people like me continue to speak up, it's only going to get worse. I applaud the Catholic Church for being such a strong voice against abortion. I wish more Protestant Churches would take a stand against it like the Catholic Church. This topic needs to be addressed more from the pulpits. There are so many women in our congregations who have had abortions and some who will have one sooner or later. I'm not putting this all on the women because there are

guys who talk their girlfriends into having an abortion. Jointly, they are too afraid to face the reality and responsibility of bringing a child into this world, so they choose to abort, what poverty. Because of abortion, we are missing one third of our generation.

I can't help but to wonder about the roles of these babies in society if they weren't aborted. Some would have been athletes, musicians, doctors, inventors, teachers, engineers, filmmakers and great poets just to name a few. These babies have been robbed of their destiny. Is that fair to them because some immature parents decided to abort? Listen to some of the reasons why women choose to abort.

  * Birth control failure. Over half of all women who have had an abortion used a contraceptive method during sex

  * Parents/Partner wants her to have an abortion

  * Relationship problem/single motherhood

  * Interference with education or career plans

  * Doesn't want any more children

  * Feels she can't afford baby

  * Feels unready for motherhood

  * Rape or Incest

  * Her own set of health problems could effect the baby

The truth is, these reasons stem from selfishness. Go ahead, shoot me down and criticize me for sounding so harsh. I have received tweets from people on twitter, emails and remarks in person about how I need to be more understanding, especially when it comes to women having abortions because of rape and incest. Let me politely dismantle that argument. Less than 0.5 % of abortions come from rape or incest. I'm not knocking the tragic, horrific event of rape or incest, it wasn't fair. With that said, its still not fair to strip away the life of an innocent baby. Give them up for adoption if you have to.

In the middle of this poem, I described one method of abortion. Now, if you blew a hole into the head of a three-month-old baby, took their brains out and threw the dead baby into the trash, you would more than likely get the death penalty for murder. Society would probably crucify you and call you all kind of cruel and ungodly names. Basically, abortionist can do the very same thing and get away with it. Is this really the kind of sick society we live in? Also, if you kill a pregnant woman, you'll be charged with two counts of homicide. Another thing, you would go to prison for destroying or harming a bald eagle's egg. Seems to me that we value a bald eagle's egg more than an unborn child who is less than three months old in the mother's womb. Sure puts human life in perspective.

This poem wasn't written to condemn anyone for past choices to abort, but to educate and inform. We cannot continue to support this poison as a nation. If we do, we might as well fund terrorist attacks, cheer on gunmen who shoot up schools, theaters and malls. Matter of fact; let's go back to full separation between whites and blacks. I'm just here to lay out straight truth. God has used this poem to stop women from having abortions. This one particular girl, who had four children, was pregnant again and well on her way to have an abortion. One night, after hearing this poem and me talking to her, she had a change of heart and decided to forego the abortion. That really touched my heart. God used to this poem to save a baby's life. How awesome is that? That's the reason I do this poem in churches and secular venues.

If you are reading this and you're pregnant, considering abortion. I plead with you to reconsider. In you there is another human being, breathing, living and receiving your oxygen. That baby has life at the moment of conception. Recently, scientists have discovered bacteria on mars and they were happy to have found some kind of life form. If they claim bacteria on mars is life, then how much more is a baby inside of a woman's womb. Life is life in a woman's womb, four hours old or three months old. Let me let you in a little secret. After some abortions, they sell baby body parts to other clinics and hospitals for research.

You have to take responsibility for your actions guys and girls. If you don't want any kids, quit having sex. When you choose to have sex, your chances of having a baby are high. After I got saved, I made a vow not to be sexually active and have kids outside of marriage. (Reference, Sexanomics Commentary) Birth control is not 100% preventable don't believe the hype. Condoms, birth control pills, shots and other methods have been proven to fail. Abstinence is the purest form of birth control.

In the eyes of God, murder is murder whether you put a slug in some one's head or do an

abortion. This is all about redemption and restoration for anyone involved in any area of abortion. There are way to many women who are carrying the regret, guilt and condemnation of past abortions. All of the above interferes with their everyday life. They tend to feel jealousy toward other pregnant women. They have a hard time holding other babies. They have a hard time forgiving themselves. Some feel abandoned and lonely. For men, each one has his own unique way of dealing with the abortion. For men like me who opposed the abortion, the significance is immediate and impactful. We may think, contemplate or obsess about what happened. The experience is far from our conscious. For me, I had to forgive the girl. Men who agreed to the abortion tend deal with the same problems as the women. In some cases, the abortion destroys the relationship between the girl and the guy. They tend to play the blame game with each other. Either way, everyone above can find forgiveness, grace and peace with God through Jesus Christ. To the parents, rest assure your child forgives you as well. They are resting in the presence of God in Heaven.

To my daughter, I think about you constantly. Wish you were here on earth just so I can watch you grow. I do think about the times we could have had together. I believe you would have been creative like me on so many different levels. I know for sure that you spend time in my warehouse in Heaven reading my poems that I've yet to write here on earth. Until we meet in Heaven, in my heart you will always have a special place. I love you sweetheart.
_MY TESTIMONY_

After 11 years of being a Christian

had to bring my whole life to a complete stand still

just to follow the voice of God because I just got so tired

tired of making decisions that was making my life extremely hard

From finances to so called relationships

though I loved God, kept finding myself in the same ole ditch

Day after day, year after year

no one else was the blame for my constant flow of tears

My battle with low self esteem and self pity

feeling dry and empty, knew I was gifted and anointed

but mostly I lacked character and integrity

After times of ministering poetry, I would feel so lonely

to the point I wanted to commit acts of adultery

or I would sit in my truck and think of ways of killing me

that's how I penned the poem "Murder He Wrote"; I was about to end me

Didn't want to live another day without freedom and victory

cursing my life like Jesus cursed the fig tree

Finally, I had to wake up and take full responsibility

of why I wasn't living the blessed life God had promised to me

because in well doing, I kept fainting from being weary

Trust me, I wasn't ignorant of the enemy's trickery

kept being a sucker for his traps, slippery

Leaving me flat on my face

Though I had God's mercy and grace

I used that as an excuse to keep making bad mistakes

instead of doing the basics of what God was requiring of me

which was to walk by faith and not by sight

to meditate on His Word day and night

by that I would make my way prosperous

and have good success in life

Joshua chapter one, verse eight

I'm so thankful that God through Christ provided me a way of escape

a place to rest in Him, cast my cares with strength

to lay aside every sin and every weight

He chose to wait and be patient with me, not leaving me nor forsaking me

He's not behind me pushing me; He's in front of me, leading me to my destiny

My past is past, so it is past no longer taunting me

I'm so yielded to Holy Spirit that at any moment He is free to use me

I refuse to be like the Christian who does nothing

but come to church and sit on the same ole pew

because the harvest is plentiful but the labors are few

My testimony, is not just for me but also for you

to encourage you, to let you know God is not against you, He is for you

Let Him love you despite what you've been through or even going through

let your heart burn for Him the same way His heart burns for you

just as He has provided a way of escape for me, He has one waiting for you

Be bold enough to give your whole heart to Christ

open up your entire being for intimacy with the Creator of life

Take it from me; it's worth the price, worth the cost

for me, He is restoring everything that was lost

Teaching me I overcome the enemy and his ways

by blood of the Lamb, and by the word of my testimony

just as Jesus stated in John 14:30, I can boldly say

the enemy has come and has nothing on me

I'm free, living in the triumph of Christ, Victory

thankful for friends and family who keep me lifted up in prayer

your labor is not in vain, feel me

This is my story......this is my Testimony, Amen...

COMMENTARY: People use to always assume that my life was perfect. I hid my pain and disappointments so well because of the spotlight I was in. Smiled in church but cried on my way home. I wanted everyone to think I had it all together. The main thing I had to learn was that God was more concerned about my character than my gift or anointing. Romans 11:29 "For the gifts and calling of God are irrevocable." I mastered the art of wearing a mask and was more concerned with my gift than I was about my overall character. I wasn't out living in perpetual sin, but I was battling depression and emotional instability.

This sent me on an eleven-year journey of making bad decisions from finances to so-called relationships. I was tired of all my mistakes but couldn't find a way out. This was a vicious cycle that continued to circle my life like sharks. Finally, I had to stop everything and bring my life to a complete standstill and truly examine myself. 2 Corinthians 13:5 "Examine yourselves as to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Do you not know yourselves, that Jesus Christ is in you? Unless you are disqualified." Till this day, I'm still in the process of self-examination and will be until the day I leave this earth. Self-examination takes much fellowship with God and meditating on the word. By doing this, God will show you what to change about yourself to look more like Him. I never want anyone to tell God they didn't become a Christian because of something I did or didn't do.

Instead of me approaching God like an unworthy beggar, I now approach Him boldly as a son, my true identity in Him. I no longer allow satan and his lies deceive me. Instead of me being afraid of him, he is now afraid of me. For the first time in my Christian walk, I'm now in a place of God's rest. I'm not so quick to make decisions without first consulting Him. I'm no longer asking to God to bless what I'm doing. I find out what He is blessing and join myself to that. Since being in this place of rest, writing poetry has become easier, no more writer's block. My creativity is at an all time high. Let's just say I'm operating from His data plan, which is truly unlimited. Is every situation in my life perfect? Far from it. I have prayed for some things that haven't manifested yet. The secret to a victorious life is this. Jude 1:21 "Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life."

My main focus from the time I wake up until the time I go sleep is keeping myself in the love of God. The greatest liberty is to know the love of God for yourself. That is the secret to stepping out and healing the sick. When you know how much God loves that person, getting them person free from sickness and disease is easy. Why? His love never fails and faith works by love.

We all face tough situations, but those things fail in comparison to the love of God. John 16:33 "These things I have spoken to you, that in Me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation, but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world." Since Jesus overcame the world, it's credited to our account since we are in Him. We are heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ. My beloved reader, let nothing separate you from the love of God that you have in Christ. Just as He provided a way of escape for me, He already has one just for you. Don't allow satan or his demonic forces keep you bound up any longer. 2 Timothy 2:26 "And that they may come to their senses and escape the snare of the devil, having been taken captive by to do his will." Through the love and guidance of God, I learned how to recover myself out of the snare of satan. Revelation 12:11 " And they overcame him (satan) by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, and they loved not their lives unto the death." God has provided us with everything we thing need to be more than conquers and to triumph. My testimony is no longer one of pity parties and defeat, but one of restoration. When I do feel the pressures of life, I find a quiet spot and focus on the love of God. When you learn to view life from His point of view, worry and fear have a way of leaving. You'll learn to laugh at every fiery that satan shoots at you.

Before I bring all of this to a close. I would like to thank everyone who has prayed and who is still praying for me. Your labor is not in vain. I meet people who say they pray for me everyday. What a tremendous blessing. I'm thankful for all the support from everyone no matter how big or small. May God bless your seed that is sown into me. I'm doing everything on my end to make sure those seeds produce the greatest harvest in my life.
_CONCLUSION_

_Thank you for taking out time to read my book. I pray that your were inspired and encourage to deepen your walk with Christ. If you don't know Christ as your personal Lord & Savior, I would be more than happy to introduce you to Him. Just repent of your sins, tell Jesus you want Him as your Lord & Savior and be baptized with Holy Spirit. Romans 10: 9-10 "_ _That if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised Him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation."_ _Yes my friend, it is that easy to become a New Creation in Jesus Christ. Not only will you get to go to Heaven, but you can start living Heaven on Earth today. If you have said that confession and made Jesus Lord, please send me an email to_ {dspoet1@yahoo.com _} to let me know ASAP. I want to help you find a good church home in your city or town._

_If you did like my book, do me a favor and write a review on Amazon.com. Also, if you or someone you know is looking for a speaker for your next event, especially for schools and youth events, keep me in consideration or tell someone about me. To find out more info concerning my ministry, please visit {www.dspoet.com}. Together, we can change the world for Christ. Thank you._

