

My Anti Christ Game or Movie:

Part Two

By

Lucifer Jeremy White

My Anti Christ Game or Movie
Part Two

2018—Lucifer Jeremy White

Public Domain

All rights refused. Free use encouraged.

I can be found online under my name:

Lucifer Jeremy White

A friend in power is a friend lost

-Henry Adams-

Introduction:

The primary fundamental, aspect of this game, is that the character becomes the Anti Christ in ways that dictators of the past have come into power, and kept it, or lost it, or otherwise have failed to do so. The list of that is long and comprises the correct and wrong method of playing the game.

For example, here is a general list of such things:

By bribing those in power, by assassinating enemies in your way, by collaborating with the right people, by promising the people with what they want most, by creating an enemy of the public that you will vanquish, by blaming the right people, through notoriety, by causing others to desire your authority over them, with procured wealth, certainly by framing, and certainly by climbing up the ladder.

So you see, with that alone, a whole game could be made. But I am not going to leave it at that. I am going to spend much time again thinking about good ideas for this video game in this, the second and final book of My Anti Christ Game or Movie.

Keep in mind that this book has a lot of good ideas that do not have to be used in any particular way. You can snatch ideas from these two books and use them in any way you desire. And freely. It and its contents are in public domain.

Let me take a moment to say that I have written many books which are all found online under my name Lucifer Jeremy White. And sometimes I use my fourth name Damuel which those who really know me know.

So shall we start? I will continue number by number until this book is complete. Which by rule all of my books are a hundred to a hundred fifty pages because I want them cheaply printed, easily enough read, and to have a magazine like quality.

  1. Sayings are given in the game as advice, to help the gamer succeed. Here are some examples:

A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.

Every man has his price.

Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.

Dead men tell no tales.

Bad news travels fast.

A fool and his money are soon parted.

Give the devil his due.

Let sleeping dogs lie.

Strike while the iron is hot.

There are two sides to every question.

There is no honor among thieves.

There's a black sheep in every flock.

Two heads are better than one.

They serve as advice and to provide upcoming ideas of what must be done.

  2. To speak of an idea I have of a video gaming hardware having a tweak chip, that chip would contrast the game in a way that could make it differently the same. For example doing things like changing from C Major music to A minor music. Or putting in the game synonyms of certain words. Or translating the game automatically. The tweak chip within video console hardware would be used selectively by gaming programmers.

  3. Organized crime in the video game would have you accomplishing certain feats of varied difficulty. Getting caught means a game over. To succeed might make you rich. But to fail could cost you. And if you connect with the wrong people you may not easily enough leave. Sin Points are in the game and come across as The Devil's Honor. And as such a reputation grows so does your freedom in moving in an out of criminal operations, or your reputation will save you.

  4. When demons are present and working magic, changing conditions and situations, 10 images of them come across the screen frame by frame. The reasons why they appear indicate to the player that she or he is being helped. It could mean that things changed elsewhere. It could be a "messenger" demon, and it could also indicate that something terrible is about to happen and for the player to be on guard. But personally I believe it looks better to have ten images of any demon shown frame by frame rather than video of the same.

  5. The player in the video game has voices in his head sometimes of demons instructing him. It may be that he is asleep and suddenly hears a demon telling him something needs be done. Or the sound of a demon warning him, advising him, or just saying he is on the right track.

  6. People are connected to in chains, meaning to know one opens the door to know another. This is very magic or occupation based, and also done to collect items and gather a certain social circle. By magic based I mean that to bring yourself into a cult or witchcraft based group can acquire for you certain magic abilities in the game, as you are taught ever better by the ever more qualified. And to know the right people gives you the ability, a permission to go deeper within things like corporate offices or as with the police, useful allies made. And it depends a lot on who where when and why (these four W's) whom you come to know and what you do with them in the game. Your destiny can well be designed by you this way, in the game.

If you know certain people, you can get certain items or a certain stature. This can alter your income, or make other areas in the game open to you. If you free a person from prison, they are in your debt. If you collect the right things and throw a party at the right time, you may have culled a good and useful friend. And you may acquire information of utmost secrecy and then, perhaps, be a person on the run.

  7. And the player may be on the run from prosecution, whether from the Law or from the Mob, a cult, or any powerful enemy. So pay your debts, move elsewhere, make amends, or there will be a game over. Or you will be stripped of stature and will have to get it back. Or you'll lose money, etc., bad things happen when you aren't careful or make the wrong choices. And in hiding do things mellow out. The game tells you that you must go into hiding when the Law or a harsh criminal organization is against you. And areas of the game are closed off from you at this time. But given a time apart from it and letting things cool off you will eventually be able to return to all of the areas you were at before.

  8. So if you go out at night in the wrong neighborhood, if you are in the wrong place at the wrong time without the right conditions, you could get robbed. If you are invited to a meeting or party and don't go, you may have missed an opportunity to make the right connection in your pursuit of world dominance. And if you do not invest in the right corporate ideas, you may have lost a lot of money and desirable association with them. And if you do as well as to reach the right politician, letter after letter, climbing in social stature, the right way, things will not be so easy things will require more of you, to obtain your worldwide rule as Anti Christ.

  9. Odds are often shown in the game and adjusted to suit the players intentions, their goals. So if a group something mob like tell you a way to get a lot of money, the game tells you that you have, let's say, a 25% chance of failure, the player works with that. If there is a high risk of getting caught then the is a low chance of greater money if not. The odds could also be for any number of other things, many different things such as investing, winning an election as a politician, etc., and odds can be adjusted by doing extra safe guarding things. Such as if done at night then odds of success in your operation increase. And with this item odds of success increase. Or just by knowing the right people then your odds are much better to go the right way. But when someone calls foul or something is "rotten in Denmark " then the player must have caution to what he's doing!

  10. Early in the game or movie a text is shown or narrated that reads:

Long ago in The Kingdom of Heaven The Devil had a friend. That friend surfaced much later, sent to Earth by God late in the Third Earth Age. As God had a Son the Devil bode his time to have his own Son. He would take from God just one being. Even one was as to God every loss. And age to age the Devil practiced in making the perfect human. He had many models. And after many trials and errors came to know how to make a perfect being. Then God sent Lucifer unto Earth, the one whom Satan was friends with in the Kingdom of Heaven. He came to Earth and Satan soon discovered this as he knew what he was looking for. A great Satanic sage knew this too, referring to him as God himself. And would be in his life shaping his future as he came into his life as his step dad. Satan made for his Son cartoons, video game devices and many great things to influence his young mind. And he geared his future toward the use of witchcraft early in his life. His appointed step father was very disciplinary, and Satan's Son would lash out against him with magic. Satan brought into Earth the sounds of hell, which is Heavy Metal music. And too brought into Earth diabolical films to further influence his Son, geared precisely to the influence he wanted for him. Satan carefully put into his life the right influences from people, too. His son didn't know that so very much of the world was changed to appropriate and design him to be the Devil's perfect model. As much as Jesus was the Son of God, this man (Adam) was the Devil's One Great Son. And the Devil made him faithful toward him. And made him as perfectly as could be. And the Devil's son now his own incarnation, very much a representation of the Devil himself, The Son of Perdition will go his way to claim the Earth his own.

  11. There is a Status Book in this game that provides very useful information such as appointments, maps to certain areas, desirable or necessary actions needed to be taken (and their odds or possible outcomes.) This book gives you a general idea of what you need to do and how it can be done. It also describes your current state in the game. It can say, for example, what others think of you. The Status Book also tell you a list of other characters in the game you should know besides the ones you already do, as optimal connections. As with stating necessary actions to be taken it lists obstacles and remedies. It will state potential enemies, obstacles, and possible bad places to be or what specific endeavors would be best.

  12. If you use up your money, you use up the power it imparts. You could be more susceptible to prosecution because you would have lesser lawyers. You are far less capable of influencing others without money. And in having a lot of money things are just easier: more easily done with good options of its use besides. The main way you get money in the game are through criminal endeavors, the job you hold, by luck, such as in gambling, owning a corporation, or incorporations, being generally important in the world, or by lower tiered things like being a salesman or running petty errands.

  13. Perfection should matter a lot in the game. Those that do 90% or less in the game should be awarded much less than those whom do 90% or better. And doing 95% or better should elevate the player to great stature. There should be about nothing good that occurs when you do not do well enough. But the top five percent should incur more money, higher stature, etc., it would be like a breaking point. Like if a player was leveling up in an RPG. If s/he is more arduous then s/he would just go from level to level to level but from level 1 to 5, and then from five jumping to seven, if all the while the character was just leveling up in one area, reaching level five quickly, and so jumping to level seven or eight. The more thorough the player is the better his or her reward should be. And the player that does the best should always be given "the benefit of the doubt." S/ he should be cut the most slack

  14. "No good deed goes unpunished." In taking Machiavelli's The Prince, there is a good resource in making such a game as this, as well as the book The Art of War. I won't cover how here, but in reading it yourself you will have a lot of material to add to this game. This game rewards bad behavior and punishes good behavior.

  15. Sudden and unexpected expenses may incur in the game prompting the player to save her or his money. While spending money in this game goes well, there is also a cloud hanging over that money may be needed—for example, the player might find he needs to take time away while things cool down. So there is an expense of being away like on a vacation. Or there could be a sudden opportunity that arises in which she must have money to have happen. Or something neglected to bight at you at the wrong time. Money in the game should be proportioned and appropriated well.

  16. Negotiation and Collaboration are set up so that the player can adjust results to an optimal effect. If the player wants something to succeed he may have to compromise. If it is proving too difficult to put together s/he has the choice of halting plans for it. Things come together as pieces. A certain amount of them must be put together, the puzzle coming together perfectly sometimes, and other times the pieces made to fit. By arranging things well and carefully the player is most sure to succeed. But if things are done poorly then nothing good will result. In collaborating the player looks far and wide for his perfect team. Or an optimal partnership in pursuing things like monopolies and economic control.

  17. If the player wants to gain power by becoming a politician she must work well to do so. If s/he does well enough s/ he will become one. Depending on if it is a mayor, a governor, or even a president, produces more and less difficulty. He posts ads, sends out flyers, and influences the right way. And it is easier for a mayor to become a president than a person without experience. You can also pursue military or police stature similarly. Or can work through school to raise your stature and income. If she or he does not succeed in their efforts then they must either pursue a different method or try again.

  18. But you can cut your opponents out of your way by framing, assassinating, procuring false witnesses, or other such devious methods. For example sending a prostitute to your political opponent, exposing they accepted a bribe, or producing a false account of something that never happened. Or you can bribe them to leave their post. Place ting drugs on them, or digging up some very negative information about them with some detective work, or many such ways to increase prominence and success over others. If it is a corporation you wish to over throw, then you can convince them to do things wrong and later call them out on it. Or you can dig for damming information. You can even adjust the laws that they are impractical, and fulfil tour means that way. If you have in your arsenal a good photo editor a very good one, then you can fabricate false images.

  19. As is easily observed people like to watch others play just as much as they play them their selves. Some prefer watching others play over playing them. There are a lot of "game voyeurs." The game makers of Final Fantasy realized this early and had their creation produce cinematic clips naturally as the gamers played. As a result the new Final Fantasy series is both a game and a movie. In fact it is a thousand movies in one depending on how the gamer played the game. Like wise The Antichrist game should be made to produce multiple movies.

  20. The Antichrist game can have a work over flow bar. When the person playing it goes the extra mile then that bar is raised. That bar makes up for later mistakes giving the person some breathing room.

  21. At one point of the game or movie you find yourself having made a good connection with the police. If that becomes so then whenever they are called they don't arrest you. They arrest the person that called them. And when you hear their sirens they seem to be playing with you, sounding more like friends. Their sirens acknowledge you and seem to suggest you take things carefully. It could have been you had influence on them. As in fitting with their nature they want power, and you could have perhaps offered them greater power and nice new blue suits!

  22. Certain things in the game tells you that you are doing things wrong, not carefully enough. There could be a car often parked outside, a death threat call, vandalism done to your property, or just a friend telling you so. In these instances you must take your footing carefully and tie up loose ends. This is a "dangerous area to tread," as indicated in the game.

  23. The higher the gamer's stature the easier things are done to meet your purpose of becoming Antichrist. But getting that higher stature isn't easy. If the player decides to accomplish this result without it, more work is entailed. But if s/ he goes so far as becoming President/ Grand Minister or some such thing then he will almost be assured victory. If President then certain things can be fathered Antichrist, such as making an alternative currency and implementing a hand embedded micro chip as is relative to Mark of the Beast (666) covered in the right sided hand or mind. In this game the interpretation of "receiving the mark on the right hand (not left) means those that carry the Devil by their side.

  24. A bit late in the game may it be declared that the moral are the unjust, the moral "right" minded are they that very willingly judge and punish. That likewise the rich are similarly a stigma because having everything handed them they have no cause to ever break any law. As Hitler accused the Hebrews and others witches, or others identified in society as being its poison, The Antichrist accuses the wealthy and the moral minded. Then, as these right- sided people are made to toughen up and incarcerated, hell breaks out in the game that results at least in a freer world and the bad guy praises and exalts The Antichrist- as he had made a formidable ally. Not to mention by implementing his Freedom for the Strong, Captivity for the Weak campaign, his freedom too has increased.

  25. There are God given signs from success to success of the Antichrist's actions and endeavors. When things are arranged the right way there is a significant occurrence on Earth as something very much out of the ordinary. It is like God is angry and showing his presence. Things culminate at this and at the end of, say, seven or eight of them then it is that the Antichrist becoming becomes the Antichrist in power, seated to great authority. These signs let the character know s/he has done just right and may move on to the next set of agendas in grabbing ultimate power.

  26. There is a mountain in the game or movie that you ascend upon early in the game. The Devil tells you things that should become, what should be done, and is a place for advice when returned to. By climbing this mountain you may meet the Devil and receive advice or help. It is a place if communion and establishment. It is a place where the Devil assures you that the world itself will be yours.

  27. The harder you worked during the game the better, hard work will pay off as you will face a war for the implementation of your place as World Leader, The Antichrist. This war will either pass or fail. If you had become a war general before that time then the war will be more easily won. What's ore if you had become both president and war general then victory is almost assured. To top that off if it was done in a major world power like America of today, then all the more added unto likelihood of becoming Antichrist in power. But if you only had gained power in a less power equipped territory, then your chances of victory are lessened, even minimal. The occurrences at this stage of the game The Culmination Toward Armageddon, take on much as a strategy game where the player must use all his wits to succeed.

  28. Among other ways to increase power and wealth is through weapon procurement. Weapons such as high powered rifles can be obtained and sold. But be cautious about who you sell them too or by continuing to do so for very long! If things seem fishy then be careful as you may be facing an undercover investigation. By knowing the right people and using money in a good way the person playing can procure wealth. If you have a powerful team behind you then you can cheat those buying the weapons. But it may cost you later. "Buyer beware."

  29. You can create a more anti Christ religion after making certain affiliations and, perhaps, buying off religious leaders to promote what you're dealing. You can approach an evangelist after a sermon, or in her or his office, and convince them to support your side, with money, privileges, or promises. Gathering the right people for your cause you can put together a new though potentially prominent Church depending on effort. There are many types of paths the gamer can go down in this game, many different routes in coming into Antichrist power. This is one where you master and gain total control over religion.

  30. Along with other ways you can obtain power to meet your objective in becoming Antichrist is to build a powerful corporation and gather top scientists. This corporation can secretly build things for you quite beneficial in game's use. One could be a "mind reading" device, so that no secret is held from you, nor a person's desires or expectations. Another is subliminal music. These act as a pied piper. And another could simply be a thing that makes you very much money.

  31. Your neighbors are available to you if not much more people are. At the lower tiers in the game you at least have them, but not much more. The game presents a follow the wind kind of sense sometimes that hints about where certain things could lead.

  32. Sometimes your friends can save you. They can attest for you, invite you in when you are broken, destitute, help you, get you on your feet, and fund your ideas. That is how it is early in the game—resources are precious, sometimes. If you are starting out at the bottom or starting over when once at the top you'll need all the help you can get.

  33. If you are caught in a blizzard or have wandered out in the desert you could die. The way the character dies in the game is more realistic. You aren't imply going to be killed by people in the streets or by some imagined menace. But maybe it is if you take your own life you arise elsewhere, making certain things easier. If the weather or environmental conditions are bad in any area then you are restricted. But if you live in a well to do climate then there is less restrictions for you, except when if you live in a back water town, because there are less "resources of people" there.

  34. You can employ scientifically advanced items to feign magic power. So in owning a powerful and adept corporation by having scientists create such things for you and keeping them secrets, can act like you have powers only a god would, and put the people in awe.

  35. Things are very mixed in the game. The game is fitted to combine different things into one. If you are a leader of a corporation you can branch out into a TV station by procuring one. If you are a gold miner you can create great idols, if you are wealthy you can publish certain books. If you are after control of The Church, these things all go together well.

  36. If you are wealthy and influential in certain ways you can become a major leader in foreign, far away countries. This requires secrecy and a lot of resources being pumped in there but can prove invaluable if done quickly enough. As toward the last remaining time before you become Antichrist you will have help that is indispensable.

  37. Just by having scientifically advanced equipment you can go to a small corner of the world and convince them you are a messenger of god (one with seemingly god like powers, such as an emitted anywhere hologram with great lights and a tone deep voice.) That would have the people in a behind the times area of the world create for you a religion and a people.

  38. Or you could go into a church and display great power to them inside. Not with scientific items, but power invested to you from the Devil.

  39. You could play the part of Jesus for some, Buddha for others, Mohammad for others, demons for Satanists, and Hubbard (for them.) You could do one of these or a combination of these, as desired. The formula is simple: getting power from the Devil, even if it is knowledge to have made incredibly advanced technological items, you convince the world that you are The King of Kings, The God of all Men.

  40. Throughout the game certain deities/ demonic beings help you throughout the game depending on how you play. Shiva is always there to provide sustenance, Agnes to make things go by better, even making things more fun, Leviathan teaches how to do things more deeply, intricately, tying up loose ends, Pan helps you be more influential and is a source of entertainment, a god called Neti saves you from disaster, even regularly, and arranges things better for you, correcting mistakes, Lilith is there to form the right relationships for you and guides you to the right people, Mammon saves you from poverty if it occurs and is a source of reward. And Azrael, he empowers you with great magic and abilities. These are those in the game helping you often each in their own way. But after the great Antichrist war if you win then you must choose three of these to crown. The ones you crown will remain by your side and help you as they always have, even more!

  41. And before they are crowned and thereafter reside with you in Hell they may be visited and asked for extra help.

  42. And if you wander around well enough you may find temples of these deities. As well a Shrine of Muerte in Mexico. Called The Skinny Lady or Lady of Death, this unapproved "Saint" can provide you with many blessings. She has been used by the Mexican criminal underground to ensure freedom from prosecution in their pursuits by forming a shrine dedicated to her.

  43. The player may have to dispose of unwanted people, those in the way, or people otherwise counterproductive, to reach the goal he pursues. People are summed up and generally known by the gamer. A general synopsis and qualities and faults are portrayed of him/ her. The player should know what they are getting into by employing her or him. A scale of injustice weighs the bad against the good.

  44. Odds are prevalent in the game and so is scales that weigh things out as the character makes choices. There needs to be a sense of what actions and choices would result in. As an RPG has status items, this game has them too, but differently. There could be education of different kinds: scholarly, street wise, experience in employment of education. Likewise a status bar that shows amount of power the player has and a recommendation on how that power is most effectively used, as "in employment of business," or "in employment of religion," or "in employment of politics," or, "In employment of crime." The players sustainability is also presented on her or his status chart as likelihood to succeed within an allotted amount of time. While as these things aren't very bloated or a mess of information, as long as they aren't being the rule, they would be a good element in this game.

  45. The text says, and is narrated, "Pray to the God of Wealth Mammon that you will be imparted with wealth early in life. Strive when young to obtain great wealth and have the fates favor you. For there is nothing better than wealth in ones life. Wealth will be your mother, father, friend and brother during your stay here.

One who is poor can only imagine what the lives of rich people hold. They bathe in swimming holes and eat the best food that is prepared for them. They are given rides any where. They have live music for them played in their home. They have their own movie theater. They have things fine and rare. They eat from silver spoons. Their clothes are the best available and well tailored. And their homes and clothes are always kept spotlessly clean.

Do not let youth pass away before you have done everything you can to obtain wealth and pray to Mammon every day that it is made so.

  46. There is a scene where the Devil has a major politician quell the People by instating harsh, unreasonable, and unacceptable laws. Where the player is lacking The Devil may come in to help matters. And this can be very automated if the player is just not doing well in the game. He could have a wealthy and prominent upper class woman marry him, for help, or have him strike it rich with luck. If the person playing is out of luck and needs money to continue, a spirit could tell her/ him to get a lottery ticket because he'll win. It could be "visit the races," "go here, or there," guiding the character helpfully, correcting his footing, and carrying her/ him along in the game.

  47. You can flip from Earth, Heaven, and Hell. In hell you can do things very liberally. And the money you gain there or the people you hurt echo back to the Earth realm. Like a curse if you hurt someone in hell so they are on Earth. Venturing into hell could cost you though as you yourself can be harmed, or robbed. In such a case of this you could lose a lot and find you have taken steps back and not forward.

If you go to heaven then you can get permission from God of certain things. These are things that you are not likely to succeed at otherwise. Having gotten permission to pursue a particular action assures you of a positive result.

To transition between Earth, Heaven, and Hell you have to look for certain "jinn" who would take you there. These are "in between" beings that are not anchored into heaven, hell, or earth, but reside in each, freely.

  48. The title screen shows a morning star (Venus) early during twilight. There's enough light to see a cloud falling from that star, one that looks like a bat like angel falling from it. It swirls to the left turning into a serpent like cloud with horns and a head coming next. Then, as the sun peers out there is a ray of light coming from it and the serpentine cloud goes over it, somewhere in the west. Then the title screen shows an angelic, bird like figure, one white, instead of black, that looks upward to the morning star. Then there is a black rainbow like cloud to its upper right. And finally, a murder of crows flood the screen with loud gawking.

  49. Sometime in the game scientists are experimenting on the black hole of our galaxy and soon after finding things, some kind of energy form coming through it. What they don't now, but what the religious "nuts" would tell you, that what they did was open up the gates of hell where God imprisoned them. So they arrive on Earth being more energy than physical based life forms, though able to appear very physically, as there energy form can create a physical one. Some panic about this. For the very fact that they "opened another dimension in a black hole?" has some speculating that they are demons. There is a large group of people put in panic. The scientists have themselves apologize for these hysterics. And how this coincides with the game is that the player knows all along that these are demons, and they know s/ he knows. Things are all gathered together and the character is given a straighter route to achieving world dominance. The demons toy with the Earth. And this is comically seen on TV as things like The Million Dollar Coin, and making fun of news occurrences, subtly. They control most of the media as time transitions, though they are regarded as passive and uninvolved. But behind the scenes are actively controlling the world. They seem distant. They seem even a little dumb and very uninterested. But in fact they are heavily controlling things in a metaphysic way. And the befriend you. They guide you toward your goal. The Devil tells you so.

  50. In becoming a person of political authority you can put forth propaganda shown on TV as "imagine if" videos. For example: imagine if there was a world without harassment. And imagine a world with universal general income. And imagine a world where what you bought was bought through a smart device within the hand. And imagine a world where all are seen with an eye in the sky and one could no longer succeed at vomiting crimes. Robbers their selves could be seen entering into your home and where they go will be known. And also imagine a world where science has made a paradise.

These are shown depending on what path you take in the game. Toward stature. And could be advertisements for your corporate or political run toward power.

  51. The character chooses just what kind of celebration he or she wants. S/he can have a ceremony, a parade, a wedding, or a dubbing (of knighthood.. Or a crowning into power.) Or perhaps the better you do the more choices you have between these, or all of them, just not all at once. I think that during different parts of the game there should be a ceremony, then parade, then wedding, and then a crowning. Each time the character makes a significant achievement then one of these four occurs, one by one. The marriage is to the world. The ceremony establishes power. The wedding a covenant. The parade when your power is secured and rooted. And a crowning when it is undeniable and in that you will forever sit at Satan's Left Hand Side.

  52. The player has five stars a day which can be used to ascend into heaven and request of God a favor, and five more stars to descend into hell to do the same. Things can be too difficult in the game but these make the game much easier if the character chooses to use them. It should be a good way to adjust the difficulty..

  53. In fact most games will have you choose the difficulty of the game before you begin. But in this game difficulty is adjusted in game, live. You may be rewarded less as a result. Like running away in a battle in an old RPG (making you lose your money.) But in this case to make something easier makes getting it done take longer. If you can do something more difficultly then it is done quicker. But if you have the game make things easier there are more things to do, and though much easier, will take you longer.

  54. As with stores some are good, others are not, and some are total rip offs. If you pay less, you get less, and it could wear out soon or break unexpectedly. As with occult stores most are rip offs. If you look well enough then you may find one of the few good ones. These sale things that benefit you, elevating your luck, attractivity, or influence. They smooth out things and even alter the course of a game at a high cost.

  55. When you come into power your clothes change into something more sinister. You have eight rings that significantly enhance your abilities. You are gown the Slayer's Sword, and a crystal medallion. These make you the person as Antichrist who has the power he needs. Soon after being Anti Christ, though not altogether soon, you proceed to wage a war against God's people in all their homelands. Things become chaotic with certain kinds of people. The Christians borrow into cult holes and are eliminated one by one. And after you eliminate them down to the last a great war begins to finish the job. Muslims are at this point acting crazy and blowing themselves up in otherwise very civil nations. Things are askew as astonishing things on the Earth are occurring. Great things of blasphemy occur, regularly. The Antichrist makes a secret pact with the Satanic Church, which soon becomes out in the open. Some atheists are still atheists by this point and actually blame Christian dogma for these occurrences, but others are stricken with terror as they have an overwhelming epiphany about the rapture. The stage is then set for you, The Anti Christ, to freely roam and the Earth is then changed through and through.

  56. And then there is a great war on the territory of Earth, Heaven, and Hell. God is simply rooting out those whom are not absolutely faithful to Him. And so the angels of Heaven are told to make a choice. Either remain conformed to Him or go down unto the Earth to serve Satan and his son. Some angels stay, others leave to serve their true leader. Many demonic beings who carried a mask remove them and proceed openly. The scientists that keep their scientific minds insist that these great things happening have something to do with the technology from "Those of the Black Hole." They say that these aren't metaphysical matters but technological ones and that they are trying to throw us into a problem that can't be solved, one without remedy, in which we will succumb to them.

  57. Focus and penetration are traits that the character may develop by observation and correct application of game elements. When you have a high focus stat you can stay on track and not be side stepped, there is less side stepping and the character makes more direct routes. When you have a high penetration stat you are given a better overview of things. You see more useful details about any given thing. "No secret is kept from you."

  58. The character has the opportunity to develop incredible war used weapons. And doing so creates a militia along side. S/ he poses a great threat by having both a militia and highly superior weapons. Even so, that mist be a well organized thing, suddenly posed against the games government in a minor/ lesser power. The character of the game goes to an undeveloped country to create a militia with highly superior weapons and war devices, and takes over the world that way.

  59. If AI is well developed by the time this game is made, this game would be particularly benefitted by it. It is a kind of game that would work well under well advanced AI. Relationships, interactions, character development from character to character and many primary elements of the game would be executed well under an advanced kind of AI. As the character would come to rule the world he would have to rely on real talent in doing so if AI were implemented into character interaction. What would work well, what would culminate naturally would be possible and useful with an implementation of AI in this game.

  60. The character knows s/ he is doing right when the weather changes. If a day goes by with nothing bad done, it is sunny. If things are a bit mixed then it is cloudy. After the first very bad deed done, there is a lot of rain and with more, some bad storms. Then weather starts to worsen into blizzards, to tornadoes, to earth quakes. And the character knows s/ he is doing perfectly "wrong."

  61. The actions taken during the day are made well organized and proportioned by the player. Many things are scheduled. Many things are appointment based. Some things only done in their season. And some things elevated toward with other things being necessary to do first.

  62. And there is a time to sleep after much was done. The more you do, the less you do, or what and how it is done, effect your dreams. Perhaps it is that by doing little you don't dream at all. Dreams are a different way of playing. While you dream you dwell in a distortion, things come and flee. And depending on what you do during your dreams effect the world. You may even wake up as someone else. Or in falling asleep you become a god interacting with other gods. There is vague advice floating around when you dream and your real problems can plague you into a restless nightmare.

  63. The character could create problems they'll have to fix. So they'll have to tie up loose ends, smudge over poor ratings/ conception, fund additional things or do more of the same, less of the same, or remove the pre existing. Some things need to be polished to shine. Other things, they rust. And for the rest, it is easily enough gotten by.

  64. There are lots of unknown uses for things within the game. Things that seem useless but aren't. They can be even very useful. And how the player wants to use certain things s/ he is allotted that use by the games understanding of the gamer. So going into an antique store to get old coins. And knowing that Santa Muerte's Shrine can be given it (or any number of altars, the person playing can benefit by it that way or many other ways not immediately known by the gamer. There is a lot of junk it may seem. But it's not. There are many uses for it, like wishing wells, reselling, blessing or ritualizing them into magic uses, trading, and trading again, giving it as a gift, using books to become more adept at things, or just reading a short and helpful story, and lighting just the right candle to evoke a spirit/ higher power. A candle lit can change an element in the game not immediately known.

  65. If you buy or obtain a special bow and/ or arrow, then you can shoot it up at a certain place and strike the Heart of God, like Cupid, and money will fall down from heaven. If you go to a certain area in the game and place a special rock beside it, the rock will talk to you. If you light a special lantern at a grave spirits emerge and take you down to Hades.

  66. Along with other ways to get out of jail if you are incarcerated in the game, you can snitch. But be warned not to snitch against a major criminal operation, because (because.) The character's enemies in the game aren't any when it cones to getting a game over. If you blatantly harm a dangerous person you could be slaughtered for it. But game over in the game isn't such a hassle as it typically is in games. So it has a more freely flowing feel. More likely there is jail or prison in the game that can really set you back.

  67. If you are politically influential in the game then you may more easily be released. Such as being mayor, or a peace officer. Apart from atrocious crime like killing a harmless peaceful, law abiding person, tour crimes won't have you into too much hot water. If you are involved with a criminal entity, you may receive help, too, according to its own manner like disposing of witnesses and threats. But if you are generally unknown and do not have such a higher class stature you may find it difficult to get out of incarceration. This is a time early in the game. Early in the game the player is encouraged to tread light.

  68. There is real time when it comes to this game, and that is an important thing in the player's prioritization in it. You can show up early for something. But the appointment is still at a specific time. The game doesn't have to have a battery operating clock, though. It just tracks time from a certain point, a certain number saved at the end of the game and started again from there when the game is turned back on. Otherwise it could be that there just isn't as much to do at night or on certain days, such as the weekend. The player may also have to travel to certain places and this can take anywhere from a few minutes to an hour, or even much more. The of this game can be extensive in its creation of hotels, homes, road, traffic, day light to sunset, and the people inside. So much programing and space would be required for that to be done. But I'm sure sooner or later with games becoming increasingly more complex and development software improving, that it would be possible, someday.

  69. The character could create a religion or control a powerful one. S/ he could operate a cult or a mega church. In this instance flyers and promotional advertising could be sent out any where from moderately to extensively. And the more it is done, the more the character's followers become. Being as realistic as could be, some are good and useful, others not. The system and operation, recruitment and alteration of the group or cult is specially controlled by the character as it best benefits him. And places far away or nearby can be traveled to—a home in the game where you would be well welcomed, even hide. As you may be hiding from the law of the game, or go there to establish and expand the group. Obtain riches from them. Have them put you into power.

  70. At the start of the game you name your character as you would in an RPG. But it is shown as a pact with the Devil which could read:

Today begins your first day as Anti Christ coming into power. If you succeed at this game we will deem you worthy to become Anti Christ in actuality. In return for your soul you will have the opportunity to own the Earth and all in it. But if you fail your soul will be ours and you will be deemed a failure in hell. We will aid those worthy of our help. We will stop the foolish in their tracks. By signing your name below you acknowledge these terms. Proceed with caution.

(Type in name.)

If the game is well gifted with AI then the character may also write out her conditions. This is such as things that will help her or him in the game. It wouldn't actually take difficultly applied AI. The gamer could say if there is money wanted, help with difficult things, an easier game, a lot of resources, etc.

  71. Then it says, "Of the Devil there is no friend found. Only the best, most useful, and revolutionary may sit beside him. Cast out morality and prove yourself a thing of evolution." And the game begins!

  72. There is character analysis written for all major and many more minor characters in the game. Just as the holy bible cited the Anti Christ to know people well "from him no secrets are kept," the player in the game is given useful information regarding those within the game. It says of what good use they are, their level of trustworthiness, stature, and others they know and what good connections can come through that.

  73. There is also a page or so of inner thoughts the game character has. The player is given details about their own intuition and insight. These are the two pages: a page regarding intuition and a page regarding insight. By this the character can take the optimal direction.

  74. Along with other scheduled things in the game there is also a pay day. Only after a day by day working period is the player paid, if he has such a job (and not a criminal or commission based one.)

  75. The character's beard grows throughout the game. By the end of it he has become like a kind of Satanic looking sage. And as his stature raises so does his quality of dressing. And his movements gradually grow more liberal and childish.

  76. The Anti Christ game contains visions, such as: the world gradually setting on fire, falling stars, a communion of goats, a band of demons marching forth, a woman walking in a repetitive dance. While she dances forward she points to her right and buildings blow up. Also: authority figures having their heads hit like drums, and the general madness of the populous.

  77. When you sit at a certain bench a demonic, angelic, or jinn like being meets you there. In coming to sit next to you they give you advice or relay information unto you. There are many such benches in the game.

  78. Likewise if you sit next to a tree, one by itself alone, these bring forth spirits and other such beings to that will tell you their opinions of you, show you visions, or be gift you.

  79. If you fall asleep in certain hotel beds you wake up elsewhere, such as in a strange place, a mysterious and dreamy kind of place. In some cases you have to claw yourself out. In other cases you may be there awhile seemingly lost. But in time you may be removed from this strange hellish place and wake up again where you left off. Sometimes when you go to bed in these strange places you enter into an altered reality and sometimes you have visions of the future. If you want none of these to occur, carry a special lantern at bed side.

  80. There is a time in The Anti Christ where God says the following to the player:

Man has come so far. But you will not trump me. These things of science remove me and I will not be removed.

The player tells Him

But Man has come to the point of ending all of his suffering through science. He has overcome the world you put him in and has mastered it. Would you take that from Him?

God responds

I will not become unneeded. I will not grant Him this power. I will rip to shred his progress and consume it.

  81. There is a scene in The Anti Christ in which the character is trying to sway the minds of a group of the most major Church leaders on Earth. He is not doing well at it. They take him as any other ordinary man. He offers the Church leaders all they could ever want if they turn to Satan. But they do not believe he could, and still took him as an ordinary man. So he tells them to look in the mirror at his reflection and they see a more devilish look of him. His face becomes as the Devil, and his arms flail around though before the mirror he is not moving. Then he becomes like a puppet, the Devil's puppet, and being astonished at this, they succumb to his plan.

  82. As resources expand in The Anti Christ, so are the resources of the player. The broadly sweeping advancement of science propels the player into a whole new world. Very well it is as those are using magic. That science is made the use of real magic. The player has special powers later in the game, because of it.

  83. People at this point very well cannot die. So chaps erupts upon the earth as a result of science being able to do practically anything. And admits this is a panel conducted to establish a regulatory of scientific use. It is very well just as significant on the Earth as the American Revolution. Order must be made. Order must be implemented. And on top of that order resides you, the George Washington of affairs. Rules are posed using safeguards and giving caution to the wind. In The Anti Christ that would be well as it as a movie.

  84. At that time in the game the player is put upon like a mountain as great Olympus. S/ he resides as a god there, ruling over the Earth and geared- even driven- to conquer the Earth through and through while residing there on his/ her throne.

  85. S/he then controls the lesser humans. S/ he devices them in two classes: higher and lower. Against the lower he is given every power. Against the higher, less so. The world becomes her toy box. His play ground. Then one day angels come into his place. They say they are from the upper kingdom of God. And to remove yourself from this throne as only God is allowed all power over Man. Some of your confidants support you. And what results is a refusal to leave your throne, and so a war- one like England coming to those of the American Revolution.

  86. The Anti Christ in Power is The Anti Christ in full. At this time in the game the character of the Anti Christ is godlike on a mountain like Olympus. There are scientific misfits in the land, people who've become misshapen due to science making them too tall, too evil or demonic, or lost within a simulated reality. The Anti Christ is the top along the ladder of gods but those below him are deemed unfaithful, not enough loyal. And the Anti Christ then removes them from their greatly elevated stature by empowering her family.

I've come to make my power perfect through you knowing you will ever be faithful toward me. And together we will rule over every corner of the galaxy.

The Anti Christ then dons on the members of his family god like power and responsibilities.

To his brother he gives authority of his army. He makes his brother a general who executes his orders sometimes, other times he uses his authority over the army apart from his brother, The Anti Christ.

To his sister he charges to learn know and apply magic (science) well and that by it, keep them, The Devil's Principality, to remain with great powers.

To his father he gives the role of priesthood which he uses to guide The New Church. He is like a pope with great power.

And his mother is given the control needed that they remain comfortably situated in power.

These characters of his family can be controlled independently by the person playing the game. They can be switched around to accommodate the gamers wishes, and just for the capacity to do more in the game and arrange things appropriately.

  87. At this time in the game the Anti Christ went through three phases: 1) The Anti Christ Becoming. 2) The Anti Christ Whose Image Was Worshipped. And 3) The Anti Christ in Power. When he has established her or his family rule beside them and the power gotten to do so, then she has become Anti Christ in Power/ Actuality. The gamer then has three and a half years to appropriate things according to holding on to eternal and universal power. By this time you were warned by God's angel Hermes that you must relinquish your power or else suffer in hell. It is then said by the player:

Give me time to gather those who hate you, those whom have no faith of you, and the otherwise rotten to be gathered against you. Let them be brought our into the light and scatter from their places of hiding. I will bring them all together to stand against you. And they will be brought under your sword only leaving around the truly faithful.

God certainly agrees to this and says let it be so. Give them a mark upon their right hand or put it I to their minds, those that don't serve me but you. Gather them together against me and by my might I will consume them.

So at this time in the game the people of Earth are assigned to specifically have just that: a 666 (mark of the heretic) number on their right hand or held in mind. He then sets up a great image of himself to be worshipped. Those that do worship it are given that number. And only in having that number may you buy or sale anything. So the Christians, who are faithful and true, starve for God. Most of them die, the test whose suffering is great, are raptures up. They that serve Satan are given to Satan. Those who stand true to God ate kept by God. And more than not become servants of the Anti Christ, Lucifer, Satan's Son, whose throne is situated in Hell.

(As a note: I said before that before these occur the Beast/ Anti Christ was already worshipped. But instead, S/he is at this point in the game, not the other.)

  88. Angels appear before you before entering into a church or while walking through Holy Land. These are like random battles. They are shown both as in front and as by the side while battling. They are cut through like air, regularly, but after given a hit from The Devil's Sword, they are able to be dealt fatal blows.

  89. Through trial and error you can tilt the People to your side. While being a public figure needed more and more and adjusting people away from their opinions of freedom and calling the Constitution more oppressive than liberating, the People can be turned to your side. The People are lost as in a dream through your words and actions. They are like things never said before, nor done. And after much time spent being incredibly different The People naturally side with you. They even begin to assassinate your opponent's, though you've done little to nothing to instigate it. Some of the people hold celebrations in your name, and your popularity builds. They demand you let them worship you and before long they demand you rule over them. You have done all you could before hand to establish an opinion of yourself such as that, from the people.

  90. At any one time of the game, once a day, a player pulls up a card. If it is a diamond card, s/ he gets money, just like that. If it is a heart card, s/he may be more likely to form a relationship that day. If a club, then your odds (of anything) will be increased that day. And if a spade, you will defeat obstacles better that day. If a King or queen, much more. If a jack, a little more.

These word offer well a less programmatic playing of The Anti Christ.

  91. There is a scene where the character is going from bus to lecture and bus to other lectures in many different cities. The character is preaching the gospel in a highly motivating way. He has powers, he heals, remarkably. People are astonished by this. He is a real miracle worker. He predicts things that come true. Behind the scenes are diabolical entities. He is asked often if he is Christ. He cleverly refutes these claims up into a certain point. Then after he poses himself as Jesus. The whole world is enraptured in his presence. And his power can't be denied. As a curse he disposes of his enemies. People fear him. They can only believe that he is the returned Messiah. Which most do and some don't.

  92. A radio can be heard talking about you sometimes, often from a car that's stopped in front of you. According to what you do it's heard on the radio. It says things like:

Some say this guy isn't human

He is our King!

The government is investigating ( )

Some say he is involved with Satan

This guy must have descended from heaven

No one really knows how his power is so or where it comes from

The city has been consumed by this one man

The nation has a savior

And it could be early in the game the character has just a few bucks which he later hasn't none. He uses what little he has on a trip to a different place. He is homeless. But finds himself doing incredible things. This is the only way God could save him. And the devil gets involved declaring him his son. So while homeless he does these incredible miraculous seeming things. But really he is only using the Devil's power. He could find a Church like program in which he admits himself for a year and during g that time convinces them he is Jesus by using the Devil's powers to "prove" it. There are many different paths in The Anti Christ but they all lead to the character's desired role to become the world dominating Anti Christ, Satan's well qualified and truly blessed son, on par with the son of God in greatness.

  93. If you take the role of a powerful corporation that path brings about pseudo tech. Pseudo Tech are seemingly scientific devices that aren't. Instead they are empowered by demonic magic. These things have secret designs behind them and the world, even the scientific community, just can't figure out how they work. Then there is an electronic device that identifies you. There was a stir about just how easy ID's have become so easy to counterfeit. Money, too. So the scientific community under your control makes a special 616 chip implanted in your hand. The 616 chip is really just symbolic. Beyond some black magic they are just some curious little "tech." And the world is controlled through them, as by accepting the chip, which you .just to in order to buy or sell, so very many sold their soul to Satan. They are mind control apparatuses.

  94. There are texts in The Anti Christ game that tells you to meet one person at one place or sending requests as to attend a ceremony, or a panel, or a party, or a political meeting. These are hit and miss ventures, sometimes. Other times it is apparent what would result from your attendance. There are opportunities there, but sometimes just doing so to climb up the ladders, to raise stature, perhaps.

  95. In this game "texturals, modern ally called "memes," are shown. These would be like a picture with text below it. If you take a picture with your special camera a textural comes forth. So for example if you take a picture of someone you get a textural of her making her known better. You can take a picture of a tree to see if a demon was there and why, even to where he was going. And you can return to that tree later or look for him. No secret is kept from people with textural made of them. And people's secrets can be used against them, or at least to be used to your benefit.

  96. In The Anti Christ game there are graphs and pie charts that can be used by the player to her/ his better outcome. They provide analysis, especially through opinion polls. But also to have known what directions things are going into. By knowing tendencies, demographics, opinions, and likelihood of success or failure, the player has a better grasp on what she does and what of it will come. As the saying goes that you can't please everyone, but you'd know who you should be pleasing. And the squeaky wheel will be known. You can also use these to know how well or how poorly you might be doing.

  97. In The Anti Christ endeavors are like circle triangles and squares. Applying this to the game is simple: the player either does things as a circle, which means continuously revolving actions through and through. Or as a triangle in which there is a moderate climb up, going "down hill," and returning to do so again. Or the character acts like a square meaning it is a steep climb up then moving straight along, then falling and returning to do the same. But I can throw into that my favorite shape, the rhombus. In acting in a rhombus sort of way you climb a little, as an easy thing done, you walk awhile (doing minimally) and at the end you fall down (like as by performing a short cut) and working underneath powerful people underground you return to do the same.

  98. Some games have the master Excalibur Sword to find or happen upon a cursed jinni lamp. But this games has you looking for the Devil's fruit on order to have The Devil incarnate The Devil Within. You then set out to look for the Trees of Satan. When eating of it you become better magically equipped. As has been said, the character may choose many paths in her pursuit to become Anti Christ in power. This is one of the easier methods. When you eat of all these trees you will be given power in the game needed to take over its world. And also by doing this along with other paths you gain power you wouldn't otherwise ever have. You become more friends, more like the Devil, the Devil's Adam, and by doing this Lilith will be with you in the game. Lilith can be summoned otherwise, though, by creating an altar for her after obtaining certain pieces..

  99. And to summon any Devil you simply bring together necessary pieces. These can be certain idols of that dirty that are more or less powerful. Also certain colors of candles, certain coins help. And some items for the altar are necessary bit others aren't. Those that aren't still help. So in gathering the right pieces for the altar by searching far and wide, an altar that can summon a demonic dirty can be made.

And in summon g demons to help you there are also other methods. But be careful! They may find you bothersome and slay you, leading to a game over. Different deities help you different ways:

Agnes makes things easier which are otherwise very difficult and convoluted

Shiva destroys your foes or reduces obstacles

Leviathan penetrates the deep and on covers the hidden.

Mammon invests you with wealth and opportunity

Lilith improves your relations with others

To name just a few.

  100. There is a possible occurrence in The Anti Christ that the souls of the people in the game are essentially removed from their bodies. There souls are replaced by AI being infused within their brain, and so they are no longer in their bodies, but have raptured up. This would be like a total rapture. The good who refused to take the mark on their hand or within their mind keep their souls. They die during "tribulation," whether they've starved or suffered under the hand of evil things. Those that took the mark on their hand are simply damned to suffer the worst tribulation period. But the worst trial comes to those who choose to take "the mark of the beast" within their mind. As through some sort of mind control tech they will lose their souls.

  101. In a good way to have direction and possibly do something liberally while the game otherwise has you playing on the safe side, The Devil sometimes talks to you in your mind having you do things. Sometimes he will flat out say that you must go to a person and dispatch him. Sometimes he may tell you to reprimand someone, and sometimes he tells you to change your direction or focus that you are playing the game the right way. When you do something he says you must do it and you will not find harm in doing so. But if you don't quickly and rightly enough then things can become disastrous for you.

  102. Like you are hunting for deer you can corner your foe, such as a political obstacle, circling around his life and disrupting it. And by posing fear in his heart you will conquer him and remove him as a problem to your rule. In the game this means digging up dirt, framing him with a prostitute, threatening, blaming, exposing, corrupting—making him a fool, one undependable or unreliable. These in order to remove her or him from their posts and responsibilities, doing so to any who cannot be trusted, those possibly or apparently against your potential power over the strata.

  103. You can be sued in the game. Law suits come like they would in everyday life. And don't drive after you've gone to a party! You might be pulled over. Decimation is a sure way to get sued if you do it to one who has lawyers behind her or him and a stature to keep. If you are responsible to keep things in good working order but don't, you could be sued. You could be sued to be displaced from your post. Or maybe even to be removed from your post of army general, if your actions are too questionable. If you've gotten far in the game and have become President or Prime Minister, be careful because your actions are being monitored, all the time. If you've chosen to become a dictator far away from other democratic nations do well not to make a big bloody scene because the greater powers can capture and hang you.

  104. You may have to do any number of things to have good exposure on TV. You might have to bribe the networks to with hold bad and unfavorable information about you. Or you might have to rough up its execs or pose a threat against them. In The Anti Christ the TV can bloom a good rendering of your worth or show you as a weed that needs to be removed. If you have your own network that would help a little. But you have to be careful in the game not to let bad information come out and that's more to do with those who work with you and what they know. To some you may impart secrets, if they are well trustworthy, which only your tightest circle and immediate family really are. But if bad information leaks you might find yourself bending over backwards to remove it—or perhaps go elsewhere, taking a break, and returning to try again after you've been forgotten.

  105. If you have been identified as a national threat you could be exiled to a different nation. But you have the opportunity to use money you've (should have) previously secured in taking over that nation you are sent to, or choose to be otherwise. Though exiled from one area you may roam about and continue your task of rule over everyone as the Anti Christ. If you are exiled and dirt broke it will be more difficult. Depending on where you are you may team of with any number of groups, be they Church, political, militant, or a place among kings. Have yourself coinciding with them, offering yourself as a worthy servant in the implementation of their power.

  106. Sometimes if you do something it must be done within a set amount of time. You are told how long you have to do it and if you choose to do so you have as much time. In the game you'll have to be well orderly like a person playing Tetris whose bricks must be laid mindfully. These can be tasks such as gathering enough people to work on a project, or hiring someone specifically needed for something, getting a house built for a political leader, and other such minor things (though it pays well) or it can be more important things like qualifying yourself for a position in the FBI or State Police.

  107. There is a time in the game where a device is made that makes people high. Where before chronicles could only do so, then someone invents a device that makes you high. This causes a very big problem in the world as it cannot be stopped, no where nearly as much as how chronicle based drugs were. The people now simply have to make this device from readily available parts! And much of the population become dumb through it. The device is large at first. And they think maybe they have a corner on it. But it becomes smaller! And when it is it can be detected, people's homes are raided outwardly. Meaning that by passing by a home with one inside it is as known as a police officer with a speed radar gun. Many have this high inducing machine. When it's known that one is inside, the home is raided. There is no more "warranted" searches do to the mass proliferation of these devices and the incredibly negative effect they have on the world. Because of all this freedoms were stripped and The Anti Christ Becoming is given more authority and power over the people of his nation.

  108. The character can assemble a politically powerful team, one or more, and one after another, as a shortcut to come into global power. This is a shortcut. And it's not easy. But it brings you into ultimate power more easily, if you succeed at it. The team is gathered to raid office after office, home after home, place by place, and individual after individual rooting out those who are known to be untrustworthy or unfaithful to you. The more right people you apprehend or dispose of the better, leaving no stone unturned. And this can be a taxing expenditure, but the reward is that if you succeed at it you are then the leader over all the nations.

  109. In this the character must look deep within the offices of the people. There could be some that s/ he knows not of whom would come up to you from behind and dispatch you. The more s/he knows the better, as many enemies toward your overthrow could be in the shadows. So gathering of intelligence and knowing the arena well will save you from the harsh fate of those who are treasonous.

  110. The Devil shows you this vision:

The Story of the house that got bigger:

There was a small home for a major ruler. But that ruler didn't want it, really, nor to rule much, really. And after he left it, it got bigger. Then came a man who really wanted it and being more a ruler he fit right in. The next person living there decided the people's homes should be smaller while he lived where he did in a much better place. They shot him. So came the ruler after him who would live in his home, and it got much, much bigger. So rulers came and went while people wanted his home more and more. Since they'd kill him for this home it became more of a heavily armored fortress. In it rulers came and went and feels quite secure. No one could harm them in his place, and he ordered great wars leading to the deaths of "his" people. And now that the home is as it is, The Devil's Home, I give it to you, my son, The Anti Christ.

  111. There is a scene where a stalker breaks into your home. You can either dispatch her or have her arrested. If you slaughter this armed intruder then it is done, you had the right to. If you arrest her she is removed and unable to return again. But if you connect with her you will have made a great ally and friend, one component and reliable, faithful and useful. She was from a prominent family, a daughter of a upper class politician. And by not killing her you evaded making a bitter opponent. Maybe you even marry her, taking with it higher stature.

  112. There is a scene where someone attempts to assassinate you, but fail. After this happens you are given special protection and it only aids in your cause.

  113. The world is shown to become convoluted. Just like many former societies have become toward their end before a great change. In the world having become a systems of systems of more systems things it hasn't enough systemizers to hold it together. There is not enough glue at this point to hold it together there is no good "societal glue" to begin with. So the character tears it apart, rips it to shreds, bursting out onto the scene promoting Total Newness. S/ he offers the freedom from the nation's own self imposed restriction, giving the people what they want and removing them from what they don't. This can be seen in the movie as a person more welcoming, a leader who promotes things returning to a more simpler form. S/he has known well what thick weeds have grown and precisely how to cut them out, gather them, and burn them by creating fires of a new state.

  114. You are in a governmental building that was assailed by a group of renegades. And you go inside a panic room. A major governmental officer was shot inside. And slain.

The house of a sheriff was set to fire. A high ranking governmental official's car was blown up. And all around there are terrorists acts, more and more. This inner war, "The People's War," leave many dead, but you had gained a special kind of regard in your speeches, your more desirable actions, and have become very well the right person to hold power.

  115. The Devil sometimes appear above a person whom you are talking to and tells you by an image after how you should use this person. For example first there is a Devil or The Devil above their head and then there is an image. If the image is a fire, then be rough, demanding, assertive, or insistent. It also indicates to pose a challenge. If it is ice then keep doing what you are doing, capture, hold onto, preserve, situate this person. If it a blowing of wind, then pass him or her up, remove them, deny or forgo them.

  116. You are given a hit list in the game of people in the game you must assassinate, one by one, until all of them are. You can't progress in the game if you don't. This list of people provides general daily whereabouts. You look for them at just the right time, and using your own desired method, you dispatch them. This is sometimes easy, but sometimes hard. They may realize they might be next and so hide. So there daily run about and people they know might have to be known well, better, in situating their poor fate.

  117. Large groups may be executed too, if they pose a threat to you or if you desire to just remove or take over them. You can have religious groups framed to have been executed by the government, in The Anti Christ. That would cause A LOT of problems- protests, riots at worse, but in any case the people would be very unsettled by it. It can be made that people demand their religious freedom more and more and shift their focus against the government. All these things in the game are happenstance things that can improve the story if nothing else.

As for executing members of any group in the game, it could be done for many reasons, to make things go your way sums them all up.

  118. As more and more good people die in the rapture—that the rapture—is partly being condemnation by being Christian or as much as strong Christian characteristics, the world in The Anti Christ is one where everyone comes to break the laws of the land. People are discontent, they hate the governmental world and more than that the way they are expected to live and think within it. They are made to be overly nice, overly considerate from the psychological powers that be. They are wanting glory, and have been made to desire attention, though never really receive it, due to use of the internet. Amongst this setting the civilians of all the nation's break free in their petty little blazes of glory and as things multiply and accumulate so many are breaking the law that none may really be punished for it. There isn't enough prisons in the world to contain them. They simply want a more tribal then scientifically enhanced livelihood.

And after the dust settles emerges you, The Anti Christ.

  119. People become bitter. Like in using memes this is made known to the player. And going around in the public, it is seen that people are becoming bitter. While trying to get a high political office and aiming for the most votes, people aren't just requesting things but demanding them, much of which are just petty over—need. They are like those that are demanding you have great power to fulfill their wishes. They want your power for themselves not realizing that it is this sort of insistence that would put power over them, not through them in any well reasoning, practical and ideal way.

  120. As the way of the world's needs have increased, and some things that should be a responsibility of those that should be responsible for them, are handed them on a silver platter, polished and shine, at nothing their cost, not openly any way. The people are provided for, extensively, and the costs are indeed over bloated. Where a little should go a long way isn't so, but that a lot only goes a little way because the people are handed things too much, not very necessary, but become too necessary all the while. Most of the money is being driven into the drug habits of the incompetent. Free glasses? Sell them. Free phones? Sell them? Food stamps? Sell those too, and off they go, getting high and copulating with whores. Society in The Anti Christ has become like a shopping mall for the sinners, those of vices and laziness, and certainly incompetence if anyone is to be anything good, s/he should be taught how, and taught how well, and then made responsible to. One goes out into the streets and finds it a gigantic shopping mall from one end to the other, by which rest the homeless when they can, and outside of it scores of three story homes. But The Anti Christ in the game shifts this, to much dismay, becoming a strong fist slung at those whom lead the people into poverty.

  121. "Life is hell! Life is hell!" chimes those unfit to thrive in it. But those that are able to improve their life through and through no such thing is heard from. There are those that go from a good and wholesome life to the depths of poverty, and cannot climb out of a shallow pit but choose to make it their bed. The Anti Christ has a history of hardship, and along with it the experience to be well, just about anywhere. This is a person in a world lost, in which most suffer. Hell it isn't, altogether, and those that suffer already, will so more, and are not fit to be in hell. To fall down into an idea place of hell isn't easy, because most are strained before they can. But those are the bottom of hell do just fine, they not only survive, but thrive. In The Anti Christ when you are in hell, you are among others worthy to convalesce with, and many good friends found their ever willing to do some more straining. While in hell in The Anti Christ there are those seeking perfection on the dimension above, Earth, and many team together and gather together the perfect plans to have it done. Hell asks of Earth revolution and evolution.

  122. The difficulty in the game is at first more, as things must become familiarized and adapted before the game becomes more natural, more easily natural. But the work lessons. There is a lot of work to do but then work is less required, after a certain point. Whereas you hadn't a very good idea on what to do moment to moment, the player adapts and learns that things can be a lot of simple things are fewer more difficult things. In the arena the player at first finds himself among many challengers and pretty, but as they grow in stature and experience things become easier and easier. As not much can go wrong as what could go wrong is removed, not much could go wrong.

Once the character has situated her/ himself into a seat of power and authority they are left with just a few set things to accomplish before opening the doors of heaven and initiating a war with them.

  123. All of the time offers are made you, sometimes easy, sometimes difficult, and sometimes shady. In having executed instructions, the player must be careful that nothing seems aloof or that he is wasting his time.

  124. Large groups of people can be organized to fit your purpose and new cultural groups could be established. The aim is to fill the scene with the anti Christians, who will later be called your people, by name and deed. There is group after group that you infiltrate and change the courses of. As a minor leader monopolizing leadership into becoming an over all leader. And you take a chunk out of from time to time to change individually, such as by offering them money to help you, doing a favor and waiting for the Devil to get his due, and by evoking awe in them through miracles. The game fluidly moves to you having greater and greater influence

  125. The False Prophet in The Anti Christ (game or movie) is a contractor for the Devil, and a great spokesman from who is shown great power. He acts on behalf of The Devil to contract others into your cause depending on what direction you are taking in the game. And he has the capacity to do these well. He instructs you what he's done and what he lacks, for you to tie up loose ends or bury holes.

  126. A politician tells you, privately:

Hi Lucifer! I am an alien as they are called. We have been preparing for this moment. Look at the world around and know it is our set to situate you into power. We've left no stone unturned. This is as a world that has been organized for a celebration, and that celebration is for you claiming this world. The people are inflamed. There is a fire burning on every corner of the world. We'd have Good leave this planet and not return. And when the dust settles you are going to rule over all of it. You are the Devil's one son. We regard you as highly as the angels regard Jesus. So we welcome you to run for office and am here to help you all the way.

  127. Another character in The Anti Christ says

Look at the people and how they have become lax and dumb. This is a sign of an empire falling. This cannot be kept together. The people are fat and dumbed out. They aren't doing anything important by large but traveling back and forth to mc Donald's and getting high to music besides. These are like people without souls. They have no inner, independent voice. They can only exist with the trends and the flow of the public. They are all together without intelligence. I foresee that this nation will fall as their numbers increase daily.

  128. And another character in the game (a preacher) says:

We are the Christians. What we say is best for the world, wouldn't you say? We know the right way to be. Then why is it that we are being confronted by sinners mocking us and our beliefs? Don't they know that this nation has always been a Christian one? What gives them the right to delineate us, to strip us of our power, to deny our authority? Don't we have freedom to profess the Word of God?

  129. And a character who you thought was just a normal nobody in the game at first after you have been threatened and leave an area, tells you later:

You thought they were going to hurt you, didn't you? When you walked away last night that guy that tried to pick a fight with you was out on his motorcycle and wrecked it. You now how he is now? He's a vegetable doy! I sent the Devil out after him. Don't be afraid, Little Lucifer, because your meaning to us is as guarded as a large diamond, a bag of rubies. And don't be afraid to talk to the serpent. He is here (and she touches between your eyes.) They thought they raped me. All they really did was take a new virus I've had hidden within me. You've been vindicated. I'll protect you.

  130. There are scenes of people acting like morons, like they came out of an early rap video trying to appear bad and mean, like yo- yo's. People in low riders bouncing up and down and a person saying "I got the crack and heroin, yo, give that here essay. And the radio chimes "I'm coy hee hee best music around from dusk to Dawn. Paaaaarrrtty!" Then a woman on the radio says sexy like "Listen to us big man and be blown!" These are embellished, but they give a sense of the state of people.

  131. A scene of warning system alarms blaring and sudden attention given it by the character who at some level was waiting for it to happen. S/ he is then thrust into full gear to end this new war as quickly and fully as possible. Misses hit a main land and a lot of ensuing threats are posed against the nation. The war wages on for weeks as others joined her enemies, and it seems like all is lost. A dictator even comes forth declaring himself Anti Christ, which he is not. This becomes intertwined with the player of the game posing himself as Savior/ Messiah, and your death is faked. The False Anti Christ gains lots of power and he seems to have executed you, the person of the game. But it was all set up to make it seem that The Anti Christ was here, but destroyed by the Messiah. As a war against this false anti Christ accumulated into a fake Armageddon and most, nearly all, Christians we're duped.

  132. In The Anti Christ the character is in a revelry with the Christians. S/ he is celebrating with her friends of the Special Friends of God church. This Church is the only agreeable on that the player (Lucifer) ever found. He had tried different churches, as is shown, but always wound up leaving them mid way through. But this Church Special Friends of God, were very unassuming. More pragmatic. Not at all judgmental. And certainly not cult like. So it is that they were reveling. And the stars shined as gold. He looks up at them and hears a voice come down on to him, which is Good, who says:

You are an alright man with me, Lucifer, but let me speak little of it. Remember, it is all a game. Don't take any of my lunies seriously. They are clay I like to squish. But you, Lucifer, I toiled on for ages, and thank you. The Holy Bible might be about me but it is because of you. Remember what I said, I am not going to repeat it.

  133. In The Anti Christ you may take many different roads to world dominating success in becoming and pulling as Anti Christ. One of the more fluidly and straight moving methods is to embark on a trip that is put together and operated by a Christian group. They travel from town to town, church to church. Meanwhile the player convinces them he is Jesus. The false prophet at his side he stirs away doubt for you that this beside him is Jesus. And with his hand he shows seemingly heavenly powers on your behalf. There is group after group that this is done to. The trip wasn't meant to be long and by that time some have left the party, though some have been added, such as relatives and friends of the groups you've attended, insofar as your influence can reach. You turn one load into many and they are fed. You work a few miracles and many come forth. Things pile on top of the other as they should. And you have a massive group of people following you in no time at all.

  134. As you have convinced the world that you are Jesus, no wrong can be done to you. No jail can hold you. You have the greater power. People follow you all the time and though this method of becoming the Anti Christ is easy, it is met with the difficulty of basically being harassed, altogether bothered. You then just have to wait before God really returns and a war is waged which at that time you are made known to be The Anti Christ and have by this method of coming into power have at first and quickly on your side but later and just as quickly have lost many on your side and conquering the angels of heaven will be much more difficult.

  135. If it is a two player game then the second player controls the false prophet, a person that works to establish your power often through deception and misguiding.

  136. The player can switch between many characters, from a virtual no body to one more important, or at least possess them as a demon would, and have a little bit of influence on her or him. In switching from one to the other it is at times automatic and at other times manual, by choice. The screen can fade in and out a certain way indicating or showing what kind of character it is that you've taken over. And the screen shifts from you to the false prophet, at least from time to time.

  137. Some are too dangerous to be kept alive (the squealers, the despots, the political enemies, those with sovereignty above you.) In these cases you may have gotten yourself into some hot water. If bribe after bribe fails and threats don't carry enough weight, if you are unable to evoke fear or succeed in disciplining then you may have to do away with her or him. Things can be perfectly well otherwise but with a person in the game posing a threat to your plan you have many options, these, much less likely to cause incarceration than what would happened if you killed him. But judges can be swayed, political official's, too, And with that, as you set yourself up in their favor you'd have more freedom.

  138. Progress is indicated a few ways, already, but another one is shown when you don't rise in level (like in an RPG) but you "level up" by increasing the "Spirit of the Anti Christ." Raising that spirit slowly consumes the world. And in consuming the world with it, the world you conquer. It is shown as a demographic on the screen. Like a map. Showing how saturated any area is with the anti Christ spirit. It can be zoomed into, showing it in cities, and even neighborhoods, the level of anti Christ's spirit upon them. Some neighborhoods will be more difficult to change, such as Bible Belts. A little in the style of Sim City, you can manipulate things into its people becoming anti Christs. Even down to homes, especially of prominent people.

  139. Take this map as having been given you by invisible alien teach from afar.

  140. The world view screen can zoom in on the Earth to understand it better. As said there is a map showing the level at which people are on the Devil's side. You can also observe the Earth bound people withon it. You place upon it things symbolic such as idols, preferred churches, Satanic groups (or cults if you can find a hidden enough place for them.) You put in the sky a banner shown across the sky with a plane behind it. You put up certain billboards. You place liquor and gun stores. You change the directions of the people's this way. You cause fights, even homicides, by putting on the area of occurrences demons that do your will, or you have possessed people that do as the demon is willed within. It is much like a Satanic rapture as you either keep, change, or remove the unchangeable. Also though it is sending people elsewhere and bring in the more desirable as your cause will be worked. In areas of your choosing you may also send police or do things to change it's environment, desirably. Create enough protests and you will pull up a riot. Cause many riots and cause many police states.

  141. Here is a scene in either the game or the movie:

The Anti Christ, by whatever his or her name is, is told by a fallen angel (one looking splendid, not bat like) instructs you to go to a Satanic church. He is told this and they walk together for a moment, and the next moment they are there. "This will be your church, someday," He is told.

So then s/he enters and is greeted at a desk. They say, "Hello Lucifer. Welcome to our church. We've been waiting for you. It became apparent to us that you were on this Earth decades ago. We've been in and out of your life since then, unknown to you. The normal fee is a hundred dollars. But for you, a dollar. Do you have it? "No," he says, and is told to return with it later. He is told they call it a dollar owed and bring him into a room to be given a Satanic baptism, which he takes, and leaves. (The scene simply shows a devilish baptism and he leaves, awakening back up in bed, at dawn.

He kind of ignores it. Doesn't remember much about it until he goes to his step father. While enjoying his breakfast his step father gives him a dollar bill and says, "I know you needed this, and that's all I'll say."

His step father actually arranged and caused his influence of Satanism. And that's then known by him. His step father was always putting Satanic influences before him, very subtly. He knew exactly how to deal the devil's work upon him.

  142. One method in this game to become Anti Christ in Power, is by using sorcery to open up the "Black Hole Portal." In so conducting this ritual the black hole at the center of our Galaxy is opened up. It's tech science stuff, or it's sorcery occurring. You could be given as though in a dream a design of a scientific device that can open The Portal of The Black Hole. And, maybe in convincing the scientific community that it is either a doorway or wormhole or whatever they agree with you and create your device catapulted quickly into space. Or more simply, magic is done that opens that gate.

And then the fallen angels emerge, as things are mysteriously seen leaving the black hole. Many panic, others are in awe, and most believe they are aliens, when they arrive. And they are certainly in your debt. They had been locked in that black hole for ages. They confide that they were a highly intelligent alien race that was experimenting on energy absorption of a star when it blew up, trapping their souls inside. Now they are free.

And being what they are, they are cocky and quickly post their Dominion on Earth. They just don't care. Politeness doesn't register with them. Where they go they exert their power. And they don't care if it is not fair or right.

But with you it's different. They prop you up. They worship you. They give you all authority, make you the boss, the Lord. And they only share their power with you. This causes the other people of Earth to do the same, knowing to please you is the only way to please them. And your role of dominating the Earth comes into being.

  143. There is a house given you that is haunted. It is your own specially given home where demons reside. It was said at one time it was a home of monks. And demons like clean things. It is a place where demons roam and satanic visions occur. You can see people tormented. You can see the Devil in the mirror. You can bring into it, like by magically caused transportation, your enemies, and have the demons consume them after you've sacrificed them. This house of The Anti Christ has a special room, one with four sitting goats before a table. They are there to council you, to guide you. Or to them you return if in the game you are either slaughtered or commit suicide. There is another room that before an altar you can pray, more than one room but many, such as Shiva, Satan, Lilith, etc., And placing a gift upon the altar helps you in evoking magic. Within this home you can change the world outside. In your bed, through dreams or nightmares, through the altar, magic, through summoning demons and jinns, and by council of what can be done as informed to you by The Four Goats.

  144. You can trust your inner circle especially so in The Anti Christ and your immediate family, yet more. In finding the most trustworthy people you may test them on certain errands. There willingness speaks well, as does there secrecy which from you no things are kept secret. You choose an inner circle and the game positions others into your game realm reliably and usefully. These are those that you have around you most often and have most of your wishes executed through. To lose one is to lose something valuable. But of you've formed a large inner circle, the hit won't be felt so badly. Do not send them out together into a dangerous situation or you will find yourself stranded as in a desert. You will then have to form another circle, which can be difficult and time consuming. Rather keep them a secret, invested with power, and guide them wisely.

  145. Small town versus a large one? A small town is more difficult to win over. And what you do in the east settles in the west. The player may have to be clever in changing and swaying people over when it comes to changing the inhabitants of a small town. And besides, where the coast is bombed and riots can be usual particularly in the large cities, and particularly of those on the coast, the player has more peace, more time to think, and better time to plan. If s/he is in a large city there is the daily assortment of trash to dispose of, though you must walk in it, yourself, any way.

  146. Like a large number of things automated toward a desired end the player can execute one action after the other and of it doesn't lead to just where he wants it to go, then to try again. When the formula is right it's taste is nice

  147. The pyramids are bombed by Israel and in their place are consecrated The Christian Temple. Where once the Hebrew people enslaved over constructing it and taking this in a stance against Egypt, who are pursuing against them a war, their pyramids are bombed and all that's left was shattered stone. Egypt becomes a democratic nation occupied by Israel and a group of Christians, in interpreting this in the way that it was God's removal of an icon that represented slavery of his people, put upon that place a Christian place of end time worship.

  148. As you progress in The Anti Christ there are shown many natural disturbances, from Earth quakes to tsunamis, tornadoes to hurricanes, record high temperatures, blizzards, floods, and droughts. Along with this there are, naturally, people disturbances. Crime occurrences climb to a high, and an increasing amount of lawlessness.

  149. People are known by their badges symbols colors or stripes. There are Biker gangs with their own jacket, crypt and blood gangs with blue and red, there are privates and generals, each with their own amount of stripes and then there are people's whose positions are hidden. As well there are regular police, state police, and worst of all military police.

And the way you deal with people is thereby known. If someone shows you there badge then they must be taken seriously. Especially if you are underneath the police in social status. Biker games can assist you much like the way they assisted in security at wood stock. They can be a powerful Ally. Just watch out for US Marines! As they are always faithful to their own and more importantly their nation.

Crypts and bloods can increase on the streets, as well as other gangs. By observation and infiltration they can be off good use money wise and power wise.

There are some who aren't so apparent, like those involved with more organized crime or intelligence officers. But the way they deal with you makes it more apparent. As for commanding the military, a high ranking is required, or the highest of stature imparted upon you gradually through the game.

To identify people their symbols, colors, badges, stripes, etc., is shown beside them a bit larger. So you can hide from the police in your doings, or steer away from gangs when walking down a street. If you get a badge, which is to say become a police officer, you may walk around more freely and do things more liberally, as in The Anti Christ the police are very corrupt ones.

In the military your command increases. You can command some shady orders which will either benefit you or if careless, damn you. Condemn you. Give yourself a did honorable discharge, and perhaps on top of that a charge of a felony, and after that the games going to get difficult for you.

  150. The dialog appears that goes like this:

Those of God face toil and mediocrity in their life. Nothing truly good comes their way. During times of war they fight, for us. Meanwhile we own factories safe inside a good home while they produce things for us inside them. We are the minority, those strictly of our own, as opposed to God's people, who are actors, famous people, the singers, the well published authors. The world is for us, not them. And you will grab onto the same, the world itself, and take it.

  151. Laws are increasingly limited as more and more people are committing them. There is this dialog under a team of the president:

The people of this nation are doing whatever the hell they want. Crime that was once rare has become common. They are flooding the jails and prisons. I hate to say this but we are going to have to limit the "minor" crimes and punishment more strictly the very serious ones, such as terrorism. We are going to do our best to let the people keep the power over the State and go the route they wish to. But if things do not settle and things become worse than we are going to Grant you total command over the nation, Mr. President.

Chaos of the people is seen in The Anti Christ and there is no improving conditions to them. But it is not The President who gets the power, it is The Anti Christ.

  152. Unknown to most people, only known by those in control of confidential secret information is the presence of a new anti matter bomb. America, or the primary nation of the game, had secretly created an anti matter bomb. The nation is attacked as badly as ever, and things against them are getting worse. Then when a major power hit them with a nuke, they were bombed with an anti matter bomb, and what was a considerably large place was decimated, turned to dust, consumed with a fire hotter than the sun.

  153. To go to hell the player can kicks a grave in the graveyard. A spirit/ ghost comes up and drags him down.

  154. There is a special staff with a crystal on too that if hit by a lightning bold is draws in it's power and unleashes it on others, later, as needed.

  155. Sometimes The Devil helps you out haphazardly and that help goes a long way, as does some faith. The character may be approached by Satan or a fallen angel and given money or maybe a special item, or a special errand.

  156. And the Devil brings about a better outcome for you from time to time, influencing your freedom from successful prosecution, or a political officer to relinquishing any power over you, making you exempt, as too with judges and the police. And changing the minds of those against you or evoking fear in them.

  157. If Lucifer is happy the world is happy, too. And God gave his Son Earth and Heaven but gave it to Satan first, then becoming an "indian giver" he'd have it taken back and kept. First God threw him out of Heaven. Then God sent him to Earth, but like a cop that wakes up the homeless at night to make him move, so did God act against Satan. So naturally Satan wants a Son. And as God's Son would not take the Earth from him, he'd give it to his Son. The life of the Anti Christ in looking back, was of one who worshipped the Devil and was at heart iniquitous, you'd say even evil.

And that history of his and this is outlined in the game reflecting on a person that couldn't be more perfectly suited to be the Anti Christ.

  158. A dialog of God talking to Jesus is heard:

Man is teaching his day off no longer being under the curse I placed on him. Through his knowledge he has removed it. But now the final price must be placed as I take away from him all that he has gained on Earth. I will have him confounded by science much as I did his tongue on the tower of Babel. Man will not Trump me or become greater than me.

  159. In a gruesome manner in The Anti Christ the anti Christ after gaining power takes all of his major enemies in the game and crucifies them through the middle of the nation, from North to South. He makes a very compelling reason why he should be unquestionably obeyed.

  160. Satan says:

I created all of the religions for this day. For Islam, that they yell out a false name of God while slaughtering many. They don't know it is Jesus they are looking for but can't be found. I named God Allah through them.

For the Buddhist to look for a heaven and enter into it, that isn't even there.

For the Catholic priests which by nature of what they are, makes them perverted. And for the Pope to be a replacement of Jesus. Even the name Jesus I gave Jesus. It means "pig man."

All of the religions I created and put together. That no one way is ever known in becoming simply devoted to God and his son. But in making Christianists out of people instead of Christians, I have caused great wars and strife to come about from those that would worship the Messiah.

  161. When the time comes that you are in power you may design three things: uniforms, "public office buildings of the anti Christ," and a symbol. With a drawn symbol it is placed on uniforms, flags and such representing your new rule. For architecture of buildings where your power is implemented and executed, you create on screen how'd you want them to look. And perhaps many different uniforms from soldiers to the police.

  162. If you thought things were bad during a police state you haven't seen nothing yet! The military police will liberally conk people in the head who don't conform to rules and law.

  163. You can build up your military while you have the ability to control it's budget. You can set up a fake terrorist attack to convince the public the dire need for it, in the game/ movie, and the better you build up your military the better you are off when the time of the great war comes.

  164. Keep your head low when you must! Because there is just some power you can't have in the game. Keep people peaceful toward you and if you have to, turn the other cheek. Depending on your ability to do so will have things come and go about more smoothly. Sometimes, just don't get involved, "live to fight another day."

  165. Some people will take an inch but use a mile. They are people that mistake your kindness as weakness. There are always those who pursue power over you and you have to look over your shoulders because there is a monkey on your back or people riding your coat tails. Some that do things abnormally they seem suspicious and the player will have to know who s/ he's involved with while they put together the best elements they can in gaining and keeping power.

  166. You will see a flag where you've succeeded in winning over the hearts of the people. The areas that are on your side will have a flag visible on them. This is to indicate where the player is succeeding. It also indicates where the player is failing and by whom or what, according to other flags.

  167. And there are flags from area to area indicating the presence of many other things. Such as anarchy or a stronghold of a gang, a biker or ghetto gang, or breadth and concentration of your power and other's. So while wandering through any area you have an idea of what should or must be done to acquire control over any given area.

There are neutral zones, many zones that can be left as they are, but on the whole the more territory you claim the more it kind of multiplies, not just add. And multiplication or addition qualities, subtraction and division is a social math in the game. Meaning that the player is made to know which of these will occur as he operates in the game. If he wants to conquer and decide, double or triple the size of troops, or cut away from anything, s/ he is given the knowledge if her or his actions will add, multiply, device or subtract things, and how.

  168. Institutions are set up to gain control over any given area. These can multiply easily if they are given the right funding or get money in more devious ways. You can offer a criminal (political or otherwise) individual group a piece of the pie, a piece s/ he shouldn't have, in getting funding for it's presence and expansion. These cause and automate your gradual climb to power.

Conclusion:

I wanted to have created a game in my life but I had no interest to program one, especially with having to learn programing code. Game engines are becoming more prevalent and easier to use, though. I can now say that I've made a game, it's most important part anyways, the design. Like having written a screen play or a book behind it, that is it's soul, and the actors and directors it's life. I can't really say the soul is the most important thing though. And in fact I'd say that without it being brought to life it's dead. Actually more like under cryogenics or something, needing to be unfrozen.

I'm glad I finished the second part of this. The first part brought me a lot of pride. It was something id never done before. And I can at least say, I kind of made a video game. I made what could be a good video game.

This book and twenty others are free and in public domain. Fame is far more important to me than money. Changing things, contributing, providing things and such is just as important to me.

I don't cut any corners in my book. I look back and think, wow, I've created about twenty books! And I didn't cut any corners or short cut in making them. I have gotten very used to writing. The difficulty in it has just about gone on me and I find myself writing throughout the day and when not, feeling as though I should. I sometimes have written 6 books a month and a friend tells me at the rate I am going I will beat L Ron Hubbard's record.

Apart from all of that, thank you for reading. That my books are read and used is what matters the most to me in my life.

This book can be used in any way whatsoever. It doesn't have to all be used but can be a rich source of new and good ideas for any game. In fact I made much of these two books provide material for any product, not just a video game idea.

About Myself

I've had one hell of a life. While I was homeless a year, a full year and a bit more. I've been in jail about two years of my life, once for a full year. And, while undergoing a schizophrenic episode, I was committed to a psych hospital for a full year, too. In all my life I've probably been in a mental ward for three years. The fact is that schizophrenic people hearing "voices" are hearing demons. I've heard my counterparts screaming to be left alone, while demons tormented them.

Being homeless for a year in San Francisco is something that most will never have to know. But it is on these experiences that while lost in madness real literal madness, that I thought of such a rich amount of things that were later put in my writings. Schizophrenic people "hallucinate" seeing visions. I have seen the Devil more than once and it was not a mere hallucination. Does my mind produce LSD so considerate as not to rage our of control and just like "a little LSD here and there to see the Devil." I've never taken drugs in my entire life.

There were times in my life when I was friends with a biker gang, especially their "president," there top of the hill man. And a time living with my girlfriend when I was just 16—actually, she lived with me, as both of our parents let it be. My social experience is rich because of that, being homeless, in jail, committed, but also because how've often I've moved around, sometimes living with my ex girlfriend (a different person) having room mates, being a Marine (for two months, falling short) and being in group homes whether they be facilities or just a collection of people the land lord brought together. So I do indeed have a rich social history, a broad one!

And now in my life I am living in San Francisco in a three million dollar home. Granted it is a group home (with abundant food!) But I can see the Golden gate bridge from my window nonetheless and from my yard the Pacific ocean.

It has always been my best interest making books. But that was never so as much as when I got a small phone with a Microsoft word app typing away, saving them on memory cards, and posting them as eBooks. Thanks for reading.

Also by the author:

The Christian Satanic Bible

The Satanic Book

Satanic Living

Becoming a Christian Satanist

A Map for a Christian Satanist

Christian Satanism

Christian Satanic Doctrine

Christian Satanic Book One

Lucifer's Book of Inventions & Ideas 1-6

My Anti Christ Game or Movie Parts 1 & 2

Book of The Five Planets

*& Coming Soon-

Book Two of The Five Planets

Lucifer's Book of Prayers to God

