 
# My Funtastic Trip

# Contents

12 hours until myfuntastictrip 5

First step of the journey 5

 Day 2: Adventures in Leiden with friends 6

Day 3: Day with the celebrities. 7

Day 4: lazy days 8

Day 5: going to Egypt 8

Day 6: a day at the pool. 9

Day 7: the hotel 10

Day 8: out of the sun. 11

Day 9: dancing in the sun. 11

Day 10: head banging fun 12

Day 11: I'm Scotlish 13

Day 12: walking with the Egyptians. 13

Day 13: last day at the pool 15

 Day 14: traveling days are so annoying 15

Day 15: traveling to Milan 16

Day 16: Milan's City 17

Day 17: going to another hotel. 19

Day 18: Marrekech 19

Day 20: souks 20

Day 21: tour buses 21

Day 22: Doing nothing 22

Day 23: tombs and souks 23

Day 24: Lyon. 24

Day 25: under the horses tail 25

 Day 26: hanging with the animals at the movies. 27

Day 27: going to Rome 28

 Day 28: Ruins, time traveling, museum and entertainment. 29

 Day 29: Ahhhhhhh I've lost my head. 31

Day 30: hitting the shops 32

Day 31: were going to Ibiza 33

Day 32: a day at the pool 34

Day 33: pool day 35

Day 34: A raver. 35

 Day 35: it's all gone Pete tong. 36

Day 36: late nights 37

Day 37: Ibiza rocks 37

 Day 38: what time is it? Mambo time 38

Day 39: going to Venice 38

Day 40: in Venice 39

Day 41: islands 39

Day 42: prisoners and walking. 40

 Day 43: a walk in Venice for the last time. 41

Day 44: football stars 41

Day 45: tours and shops 42

 Day 46: it's little me off to Paris. 42

Day 48: Disneyland Paris. 43

##   12 hours until myfuntastictrip

Posted on  June 15, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Just 12 hours left until the big event and we're just about packed and ready for the day ahead. We cleaned and tidied up our house and everyone set. If you have any advice on how to calm our nerves or other advice please comment or facebook me at myfuntastictrip or follow me on twitter at myfuntastictrip as well. Thanks

##

##   First step of the journey

Posted on  June 16, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Got on the plane this morning freezing so I got a cuppa and a muffin. Then when we were about to land, I was boiling! So it was nice and sunny today but on the forecast it's to be wet tomorrow  we got a stamp from the lady at the passport desk. We got the bus to our hotel

We got to the hotel and were ready to check in but we had to wait 45 minutes until our room was ready. Finally our room was ready and we got in! Our rooms not too small and not too big it's the perfect size for 3 musketeers. We got settled in and then decided to go into Amsterdam Central for a wee wander.

For lunch we had smullers chips. I personally think that these chips are the best in the whole world. Yummy! After the amazing chips, we went to all of the souvenir shops down the streets of the dam. Then we went through the flower market and we got to the Christmas shop. BTW its 192 days until Christmas. Yay! I also got a new bag to carry my notebook for my blog in it. I got the notebook as a leaving present from one of my teachers called Mrs. Hagen. Thanks Mrs. Hagen!

We eventually made our way to Vondel Park. We saw tons of wee tiny puppies! They were so cute. We sat down at a wee wall next to a pond. There was a royal blue dragonfly on a leaf at the bank of the pond and it was so beautiful. My brother Daniel showed it to me and my mum. Thanks Dan! We heard a lot of cheering just down the path so we were nosey and went down to see what was going on. It was a wedding! Congratulations to the bride and groom that got married at Vondel Park today and well done to all the singers that we heard! It was beautiful. We also saw some wild, green parrots just flying around; ducks and ducklings swimming around in the pond; 2 herons and 2 other birds that looked like geese but I don't think they were but you never know? Our shoes got a bit muddy but that's okay!

We left the park and went by the hardrock cafe. We caught a glimpse of 2 men playing huge chess. It was cool. We went to the NYC pizza place for dinner. It's so yummy! We all had a cheese slice. It's a big slice for an 11 year old! We got very tired so we decided to head home but before that we got 2 postcards for our Postcard Challenge. We caught the train back to the airport and got the bus too our hotel, Ibis.

Back in our room I and mum got bored so we went to the hotel gym. Mum and I trained for her marathon and I trained for my 3k run. It was fun! I had the iPad with me so I could watch and run at the same time. I watched Wizards of Waverly Place. It was cool. I had a shower and got my pjs on and now I, mum and Daniel are watching the Euros. So that's what I did today thanks for reading if you have any advice please don't hesitate to let me know. Facebook or tweet me at myfuntastictrip please follow and link me as well. Thank you

##

##   Day 2: Adventures in Leiden with friends

Posted on  June 17, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hi sorry I'm late putting my blog up we watched the football in the bar.

So we planned a wee trip to Leiden to see some friends and it didn't really go to plan. First the train tracks were getting work done on them so we got a train to hoofdorp then a bus to Leiden Central. Second one of our friends had to take her daughter to a ballet recital. And last were very late.

On the way to the station, just outside the airport was a football challenge thing so I and Daniel gave it a shot. We had to get three footballs into a few holes. Dan went first, he got one in and he won a keychain, gym bag, luggage tag and strap. I just got a keychain and bag  I'm not good at football.

We got on our train but we bought a few treats for the journey. Milk, grape and kit Kat for me. chocomel,m&ms and a muffin for dan. Mum got a ham roll and a bottle of water. Health mum! We were on the train for about 10 minutes and 35 for the bus. Anyway we saw lots of cows, sheep and ponies. We were on the bus on the way to Leiden and looked out the window and casually saw 2 Shetland ponies in someone's garden. Nice pet!!!!!! Then we met Laurent to take us to His house (he's a friend of ours)

We arrived at their house and it's in a lovely wee area. Lots of buses and parks too. His son had a friend in so we waited until he had to go home for dinner. Isaac came down to show us Lola's cat. Her name is Daisy. She is black and brown and very friendly! We played together me and isaac until his mum and sister came home from the ballet. We played with daisy for a wee while and then went to the park for a bit. I learned a story from there mum.

We walked through a wee area called the allotments which has loads of plants and weeds in it then I got told the story. This is true. Right well their I this kind of trench but its huge and you walk through it to get to the park. Well in the trench, they found a bronze roman helmet and they also discovered that it was a roman village so they can't build on it because they are going to use it for archeology uses now. Cool isn't it!

We got to the proper park and we played for a wee bit but got bored so we went back to the house. Then we had an amazing dinner cooked by Laurent. Thank you it was lovely! I had pizza and some bread so did my brother and mum had some chicken. We had a few wee games of Chinese whispers. It was funny because we got it wrong all the time. After dinner we went back out.

Daniel and Lola played football and me and Isaac went a few adventures. We found a huge willow tree and we swung on the branches, we became Tarzan! After monkeying around we went up to the  
Trench and played mountaineers and archaeologists that were pretty cool too. We did take the cat out with us but lost her in the bushes but she must have followed us to the tree because when Lola and Isaacs mum came to get us, she was sitting watching us playing. She was a spy cat.

We realized that it was time to go. I didn't want to but I know I had too. We said goodbye and Laurent took us back to the station. We said bye and made our way back to the hotel.

That's what we did today on day 2. Thanks for reading my blog. If you liked todays share the link. Thanks again

Amy

##

##   Day 3: Day with the celebrities.

Posted on  June 18, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello again.

Okay so today is day 3 of myfuntastictrip and we were just chilling in Amsterdam because it was our last chance. Anyway we got a train into Amsterdam Central and got a few treats for walking around. I got a donut, mum got a roll and Daniel got a muffin again. So we went out the station and I ate my donut. Yum in my tum!

First of all we went to the flower market again, to get my big bro a bag for next term at school. He picked a black Amsterdam one. It's very cool. After that we went to mc Donald's for a scrummy ice cream and it was scrummy.  We went another wee wander.

We made our way to Rembrandt square. Just to rest our legs but didn't get the chance to because Dan wanted to go into the Ajax shop for a look about. So we went in and it was so boring. I hate football but we have to please everyone. After that we went down to the Heineken shop to look again. I played table football because it's fun. Daniel bought Heineken earphones and he loves them so that's good. He won at the table football as well. No fair!!!!!!!!

We went to the Amstel River to walk over but we stopped because in a wee corner of the river bank was a nest. It was a more hen nest and coming down the river came a mum or dad and a baby Moore hen. They had bits of rubbish in their beck's to make the nest with. It was cool.

We made our way to another bridge but saw a few market stalls so we went to have a nosey about. I got a mood ring and it said I feel "very happy" and it still says that now. We walked round the rest of the stalls and then went over the bridge. We walked by the university, cafes and shops until we got to Dam square. Can you guess were we gone into? That's right Madame Tussauds.

We went into the building and got our photo taking with Obama and then got into a lift to take us upstairs. We saw in the first bit, William of Orange, Anne Frank and Churchill. That was cool too. Then in the next part we saw royal people like Queen Beatrix, Princess Diana and Princess Julia. They were so realistic. Next in the music room, we chilled with Robbie, posed with Gaga, mum felt Jlos butt and got adopted by Brad and Angelina. Haha.

Next place was movie stars; we saw James bond, Marilyn Munro and Hannibal. He was scary!!! After the movie stars came famous people like Oprah, Michael Jackson and Dame Edna. They were funny. Then we went to the singers bit too see Bob Marley, Elvis and Prince. After that was the famous people such as Justin Timberlake, Beyoncé and Justin Bieber. Sarah Jane you would love it but it doesn't really look like him. Then sports guys like David Beckham, Federer and Ronaldinho. Mum did sit ups with David. Haha.

No more sculptures but there were a gift shop. I got an Oscar for being an amazing blogger!! (Not for being an amazing blogger but I did get an Oscar) we left Madame Tussauds to get stuff out of albert Heijn. Bananas, chocolate, cola, crisps and donuts. Yummy. We got smullers for dinner and got on the train to go home.

We got on the hotel shuttle to hotel Ibis and I and Daniel love the driver because when he says Ibis he sounds like he loves saying it. Thanks shuttle driver, you make the end of the day a huge smile for us. We got out the bus and went to look in this wee pond thing just outside the hotel and 6 baby Moore hen and a mum and dad Moore hen just swimming around. Me and Daniel used to call them evil because a few years ago when we were here they chased the swans but now they're cute Moore hens. I want one now. But that's what I did today. Thanks for reading my blog, bye.

##

##  Day 4: lazy days

Posted on June 19, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today was our last day in Holland so we didn't do much. This morning we repacked our bags because we were flying to Geneva. So we repacked and searched the room for any loose items that we might have left lying around. There was nothing.so we left our room and gave the key back to the hotel then waited for the bus to come to take us to the airport. We waited for a few hours then got on the bus and left the hotel. We had to say bye to our wee pals called Benjamin Red Beak and Jimmy Neutron (a baby Moore hen and a baby bunny) they were so cute!!!!!!

We got to the airport and went through security. That's my favorite bit! Then we had to wait a few more hours until the gate was open. We got a muffin and Panini while we waited. When the gate opened, we went down to the ladies that checked our passports and boarding pass then got in line to get on the plane. We got on it.

The flight was a wee bit boring. We couldn't have any hot drinks or food because of turbulence. So I and Daniel got or angina and mum got water. On the way into Geneva we saw, the Alps. They were so cool!! We can see them from the hotel. It's so beautiful.

We eventually got to our hotel. It's called 'Hotel 33′ it's a nice wee hotel. We put our bags in our room, then went to get some dinner. We walked down the street to see what places we could eat at but chose the one down the stair from the hotel. It was lovely. Me and dan. had pizza and mum had risotto. We loved it. After that we had some ice cream. That was lovely too. We had wee pals there to. His name was Bongo the bird.

Sorry this blog isn't long today but wait for tomorrow when we travel to.....Egypt! Thanks for reading my blog today. Please like, share and tune in every day. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 5: going to Egypt

Posted on  June 20, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Today we made our way to Egypt. The flight took 4 hours on the plane. The flight was at 6 in the morning. We got to the airport and went straight to bag check in and then went through security. We waited at the board until the flight gate was up. We got to the gate and waited there for about 10 minutes. Then we got passed the people checking our passports and went on the plane.

The flight was really boring but quick. I read my kindle and got to sleep and ate my muffin. I'm currently reading the collection of lemony snickers books called 'a series of unfortunate events' its about 3 children and their parents died in a fire and then they have to go to a selection of relatives but find that the evil count Olaf is after them. You should read it. I'm on book 5 of 13. Mum and Daniel slept for most of the flight but I slept for about 30 minutes. The plane finally arrived in Egypt.

When we got our bag from the plane, we looked for our taxi. We had a mistake in the airports so it was a muddle getting over to the titanic beach hotel. We got 2 taxis to the hotel and the man driving to 2nd one said that Hurghada was only made 35 years ago so around the same time as my mum was born. Cool! We got to the hotel.

When we got in we had to wait for our room to get ready so we went a little walk about the hotel. It's so big. We went to one of the bars called the pirate bar. Strange names. We had some juice then some more and finally the room was done. We went down to our room with the bell boy and he let me sit in the cart with the luggage. It was fun! Then we got in our room and it was big too. Our very own patio leading to many of the pools and slides, a double bed each and a lovely view.

We got ready for dunking in the pool. Costumes on, suntan lotion on and midgy spray on. We went out of the room and right into the pool. It was cool. The hotel has its very own aqua park next to the pools. Me and daniel went on 3 slides. Mum was sun bathing. We had a good time at the pool.

We went back to our room and then got a shower then changed for dinner. CHIPS!!! That's what I had a big plate of chips. Yummy!!!!!!!! After dinner we went out to the shops to buy a pack of cards or something to pass the time. A few men asked us to come in their shops but we said no. Then we found a shop with postcards, playing cards and other bits and bobs. We got postcards the playing card and a ball to play with in the pool. We got a free magnet too.

That's what I did today. Thanks for reading and please share and comment. Thanks again

Amy

##

##   Day 6: a day at the pool.

Posted on  June 21, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today was another one of those lazy days. So will the next few days because this is a holiday/relaxing part of our trip. Our only adventurous day is on Wednesday for we are going to Cairo. I can't wait.

So, today we got up and dressed and went for breakfast. After the breakfast, at 10 o'clock we went to a dumb welcome meeting. We had to listen to stupid trips and things to do. After the meeting, we went to the pool.

The pool is huge. 100 meters long. It has lots of different sections to it. We play at the 1m10 bit because it's better. We have a ball called ball-e and we play with it in the pool. We play headers, volleyball, stand still headers and catch. We also play a really fun game called 'hit each other with the ball' It's so fun!!!!!!! Some pools have water slides.

So, the water slide I love is called the toboggan but I also love the black hole! The toboggan, Isa high up slide. You climb lots of stairs with a rubber ring and go down then up then down then up in the shape of a U. The black hole is a twisty slide. You, like the toboggan, go up the stairs with a rubber ring and go down twist and splash. It's a huge green one and the toboggan is blue.

After that and lunch, we went to the shops. I got a snorkel and mask, which I saved 13 euros thanks to my bargaining skills which mum, taught me, to use in the sea. I used it in the pool to get used to it and swam all the way to the bottom of the pool and back so I swam over 200 meters. It's so much fun.

After the pool we had a shower, got into night clothes and went for a game of bowling. That's right, bowling! In the hotel as well as Water slides and 8 restaurants. How cool is that!? Daniel won the game. Then we went for some dinner. It was yummy in my tummy. After dinner, we went a walk down to the beach. It gets dark around 6 30pm in Egypt. The beach isn't too good. The pier is closed early, giant chess has bits missing and little crabs and ants and on the beach.

Just to let you know, don't come here if you hate mosquitos because the rooms are full of them. We had to buy a mosquito plug to keep them away. If you get bit don't worry it goes away when you don't pick or play about with it.

I hear from the comments that my mums friend Maihri Claire has been reading this to her primary class so thank you MC and hello to all you pupils that get taught by Miss Steele and I hope you enjoy reading about my trip.

So you know what I did today. Thanks for reading. Please comment, like and share to your friends, pupils or anyone you like. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##  Day 7: the hotel

Posted on June 22, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we did the same as yesterday so this day I will tell you a little bit about our hotel.  
Our hotel is called the Titanic Beach and aqua park. It is joined on to the Titanic Palace. The hotel has 4 restaurants; the titanic beach ones are called Jack and Rose after the characters in the Titanic. The ones in Titanic Palace are called Cleopatra and Anthony after the roman and Egyptian legends. We go to Jack every day.

The aqua park is huge. It had a few slides in each hotel area. I go on most of them myself but some with my bro. I love the slides!!!  The hotel is right at the beach. The beach is beautiful. You can go snorkel in it and see the fish. I'll do it soon.

The hotel is so big we got lost a few times in it. It has pool tables, bowling, shops, pools, carpet sellers and much more. It also has tons of ants and thy can get in the hotel rooms. If you ever come to Egypt bring a fly swatter or flip flops to kill the bugs.

Right now my brother is away to the shops pretending to be rich. I bet he is getting harassed by shop keepers to get him to buy something. Again if you decide to come here say no to everything because a man showed us his shop and said he'd give me a gift. The shop was a perfume shop so I thought it is perfume but it was an empty bottle. Thanks for the bottle mate.

So now you know about the titanic beach hotel. Thanks for reading and commenting and hello to all the schools that are reading my blog I love all your comments keep them coming!! I'm sorry if I can't answer all your question because the internet isn't to great here but I'll answer as most as I can. Please share, like and comment. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 8: out of the sun.

Posted on  June 23, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today's blog is going to be a wee bit short because we wert allowed because we had a stupid say out the sun. So not fair. So today we invented juice. Mine is diet coke (diet works better) on the bottom and sprite on the top. Its name is either spoke or colt. It's so yummy!!!!!!!!!

Today was so boring basically we drank and played cards all day. We play cheat, rummy and scabby queen with the cards and drink spoke and coke.

Last night we had tons of ants and even a cockroach in our room. We had to get a guy to come take it away. After that we watched an African show. That was boring. After that I got to play in the sand pack and then we went to watch the rest of the football.

We played a game of air hockey before dinner and I won. Dinner was nice as usual. Chips are the best.

So that's what I did today. Thanks for reading. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Sorry it isn't to interesting just now but on Wednesday I go to Cairo so that will make it longer. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 9: dancing in the sun.

Posted on  June 24, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today was the same as usual, in the pool and having food but today I and mum did something different than pools and food, we did belly dancing. It was boring. I didn't really like it. It was an  
all adults that were doing it so I was the only child.

We went a swim in the pool as well as snorkeling in it. I'm good at snorkeling but not so good at swimming. I'm only 1m30 and the pool is 1m40 so I'm under the water unless I use ball-e. Ball-e can float so he keeps me up. In the pool we see people dancing on the bridges they are quite good. Not as good as me though!!!

Today not in Hurghada in Cairo was the big election. I can't remember who won but anyway we might not be able to go to Cairo in case fighting over who won starts. We'll find out tomorrow off of the guy that organizes the trip. I hope we can because I love Egyptology. It's so interesting.

So that's what we did today. Thanks for reading. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 10: head banging fun

Posted on  June 25, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello again,

Today was the same as days before in the pool, but today was a kind of special day for me because I was getting a necklace with my name in hieroglyphics. It's so cool I just got it 5 minutes ago and my name is a bird and other bird 2 feathers. It's silver and shiny. I love shiny things because they are so shiny.  So let me tell you what happened today.

We slept in. Well I slept in and was so tired. Then we went upstairs to post some postcards and pay someone for using the phone. The phone call was to confirm that we could travel to Cairo on Wednesday and we can go so prepare to read a lot on pyramids and King Tut and the Sphinx and the Egyptian museum.

We went in the pool for an hour and got ice cream. It was chocolate flavored. I love ice cream!!! We had a big lunch since we missed breakfast. I had lots of bread. Yummy. Then we went back to the pool after having more ice cream. I still love ice cream. Yeah!!!!

I and Daniel played in the pool together and we found something out. You know how in swimming pools they have like air scooters and they push you away from the side. Well me and Daniel put our faces under water and opened our mouths and well, you know how in movies they show like mouths and their all distorted because of the winds, that's what happened to us. It was so funny.

After that we played a game of darts with some other people. We didn't win but it was good fun. After that we went back to mum and I was about to jump in the pool but we were just about to leave so, I got my stuff together and went to the room. On the way I banged my head on the post of the bridge and it hurt so we went right to the room. We watch I, Robot then went for dinner.

So that's what I did today. Thanks for reading. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again

PS. I'm okay now from the head bang. It wasn't that bad a hit.

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 11: I'm Scotlish

Posted on  June 26, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today was the same as most of the days except we went to the beach. We went in the red sea as well. We saw tons of fish. There were white fish, black fish, and yellow fish loads of fish. My favorite was a white and black one, because of its pattern. It was white with black swirls on it. I thought it was pretty cool. We did buy buckets to try catch them but we failed.

After that we went for some Ice cream and lunch. I had vanilla and so did mum and dan. It was lovely jubilee. We had some bread and rice and veg for lunch then went to the pool. If I haven't mentioned this before, I love the pool. I hate the beach and love the pool but that's my opinion. Comment saying your opinion.

We played in the pool for ages and ages. We played with our ball called, Ball-e. I snorkeled for a bit as well. It's fun to snorkel in the pool. Ball-e is basically a life saver because when I'm in the deep bit of the pool, he can float so I lie on him and I float too. It's cool

After that we went back to the room, had a shower and went for dinner. I had chips and bread. Yum yum!!!! We went to the pirates bar and had a few drinks of coke and hot chocolate. We also played a few games of cards. We play rummy, scabby queen and cheat. These games are so fun. Mum got bitten by bugs and got the clicker on it. She said it hurt.

The reason I'm scotlish is my title today is because people in the shops don't say scottish they say scotlish. It's quite funny.

So that's what I did today. Thanks for reading. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 12: walking with the Egyptians.

Posted on  June 27, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we got up at 2:00am to get the bus to Cairo. Mum and Daniel were up all night watching a movie without me! No fair. Anyway we had to get up really early because the bus journey took 5 hours or so. On the bus we fell asleep for a while then woke up. Mum told me to look out the window and guess what I saw... Tons and tons of stars. Cool!!!! I even saw a few shooting stars which was very cool. You see them better here because there are not at many street lights. They were so bright and beautiful. I love looking at the stars. They looked so cool.

After the long and tiring bus trip, we got to the museum. It was so big. It was right beside Tahir Square. People were still celebrating the announcing of the president. So we got to the museum and met our tour guide. I can't remember his name but it was a cool one. We got our tickets and went inside the Egyptian museum. We went up the stairs to start looking at the interesting artifacts.

The first bit we went to was the treasures of Tutankhamen. We saw all the different things that were found in his tomb like, his throne, his mask, and 7000 sculptures of his men and a few mummification beds. We also saw the jars for his organs. I don't know if you knew this but, when they take the brain out they make a hole in the back of the head and pull it out of their nose. Strange how they can pull a brain though a nostril. We didn't see any of the organs though.

I thought how all the treasures and his body in three coffins got in the tomb. We'll all the treasures where with him. King Tut was put in three coffins first one was made of pure gold which was placed inside another coffin which was wood covered in gold and that was put in the final coffin which was Granite. These entire where placed in a big box made of wood covered in gold then in another box and another and another. All the boxes had treasures in it.

After the king tut bit was other bit with coffins in it. These didn't belong to kings or queens; they belong to the high priests. They were in perfect condition. The detail was incredible. All the designs were hand made by the servants or helpers of the person/people who died. It's so amazing how all of the designs look amazing and realistic. They all tell a story like one picture was the goddess of the sky and the god of earth and the god were holding his wife (the goddess of the sky) up so the sky would never fall to the earth. The next room was mummified animals.

In this room was a dead cow. Its bones were all crumbling up. There were also two big crocodiles and a monkey with a dog and kittens and cats. I didn't like looking at the animals because I love animals but it is better than just leaving the poor things to rot so they got mummified and put in a coffin and buried.

The next bit was downstairs and it was all of the statues which were found at the entrances to the tombs. The guide told us that if a statue has his arms folded the this means that the king is dead, if a statue has his left leg forward and arms by his side the this means that the king is alive and is the greatest warrior of all of the Egyptians. One of the statues was so big and it was the king and his queen and their children, this was very unusual because usually the kings only make statues for themselves.

After the amazing statues, we made our way to the pyramids Of Giza but stopped at a papyrus shop. The man told us how to make the paper. You take the papyrus plant and strip the green skin off, you cut some of the inside bits off and put it in some water for 6 days or more then put in a special machine for a further 6 days until it's dry. Then you have a brownie white paper and you can start designing for your picture. Daniel got a piece with his name in hieroglyphics on it. Mum got one with the family name Campbell on it in hieroglyphics and we got a free scarab as well.

Then we got to the pyramids. They are huge. There are three of them. A father, son and grandson. They are for the kings. There are also 11 smaller pyramids around the three kings and they are for the queens. There are nothing in the pyramids except a few corridors and passages. One of the pyramids took 20 years to build. That's quite quick for a pyramid. On TV the pyramids are in the middle of the dessert but that's not true, their actually right beside the city of Cairo and the Sphinx is too. I learned why the sphinx it half lion half human. The human head represents the intelligence of the king and the lion body represents the power of the king so all together a king needs to be smart and powerful to rule Egypt.

Okay so that's what happened in Cairo today thanks for reading and remember to comment, like and share. Thanks again

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 13: last day at the pool

Posted on  June 28, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today was another one of those days were you just chill by the pool. Daniel did go play darts though. He won actually. Well done bruv!!!!!!!  I think my brother is a really good dart player. Well done again.

Today we slept in a bit because we were so tired from yesterday's trip so we got dressed and went for lunch. I had a small lunch but a big dinner. After lunch we had some ice cream. It was all melted. The chocolate one had some of the orange one in it. Yucky. We went to our room to get the swimming costume on and plop in the pool.

So we got them on and left the room. I was first in the pool thanks to my brother for pushing me in. Thanks bro. Any way we played with Ball-e for a bit then Daniel went to play darts with some other people. He won!!!!!!!! Sorry for mentioning that again I'm so proud of him.

When he left my mum came in the pool with me. We played with Ball-e for a while too. I went to ask one of the English girls who were there too if they wanted to play ball but she said no. Anyway me and mum played for a wee bit more and had some fun. Daniel came back and we. Went for a shower then for dinner.

After dinner, we sat down on a chair up stairs and watched some performers that came in the hotel. They were musicians and they were good. A man that had a tutor you would use at a football game started playing that with them. It was so funny.

Tonight's the big Italy vs. Germany game so that will be good. If Italy wins, we will be in Milan for the final so that will be a really good night.

So that's what I did today, thanks for reading. Please comment, share and like. Thanks again

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 14: traveling days are so annoying

Posted on  June 29, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today was a traveling day which as you can see in my title, traveling days are the worst days of a holiday. You basically repack, checkout, be bored and stress. Today was the worst traveling day in my whole life. You can find out later way it was so bad.

So we woke up and got dressed then then went for breakfast. We were kind of late for breakfast so we had to eat what was left. I had my usual. Bread and butter. Yummy yummy in my tummy. After breakfast we went to repack so everything fit in our cases, which they did. We even managed to fit ball-e in the big case. I was so happy that everything fit so we didn't have to leave anything behind.

After we left the room we checked out. My wrist band to show I was all inclusive could just slip off so I didn't get the band cut off. We sat down at a nearby couch and chilled for a few hours. We had plenty of coke to drink. I read my kindle for a while as well as playing a few games of cards. Then the privet taxi (coach) came.

The reason I have coach in brackets is because we had a full coach to ourselves. We were meant to get a taxi but a coach came instead. It wasn't that bad until we pulled into another hotel. I thought the driver had to pick more people up but can you guess what he did? Well, it has something to do with the IPad. The driver got out at the hotel and said 5 minutes but mum said no 5 minutes but he got out anyway. We shut the door and locked it and went under the coach to be the bags were. Mum knew he was up to something. He got back in and drove to the airport. We didn't say anything to him the whole way there. We got the bags and opened them right in front of the man. The iPad was gone!! Mum knew what to do. She said very strictly," iPad now!!!" he said" what iPad, what you mean." but he handed the ad right over while saying," oh this here you go here you go." then he went in the bus. My mum is going to email his company saying there is their working there. There was a box that he pulled the iPad out of and we guessed it was full of stolen goods.

So we went in the airport to fly to London. We went through all the passport bits with mum moaning about the iPad thing. It was so wrong. So we went to the gate and then to the cafes and burger king.  
I got coke and a cookie which was rock hard so I had some of mum's chips. Yum yum

We met some people from our hotel and talked to them. Then the gate opened and we went on the bus to take us to the plane and then on the plane. We got our seats and sat down. The plane flight was good. We laughed the whole time.

Then when we landed we went to the bus stop and got on the bus and went to the hotel. It was just a wee airport one again. Premier inn is a good place to stay. The beds are comfy and you get a wee kettle in the room. It's cozy.

So in conclusion, don't use East Mar bus or Taxi Company and if you have any valuables on you in Egypt make sure you lock your case. Hope this helps.

So that's what I did today thanks for reading. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 15: traveling to Milan

Posted on  June 30, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today was a fun traveling day because Daniel was being a total dingbat. He laughed and laughs all day. He was making funny faces and being silly. He also rhymed which is a difference and he didn't make any sense. Okay so here's what happened today.

We got up and dressed and went for some breakfast. They had coco pops in the hotel in London. Yay. I had two bowls and a glass of apple juice. Daniel had toast and coco pops. Mum had toast and egg. I hate egg. We went back to the room to get ready to go to Milan.

We got the cases and went to the airport. We got through security. Tons of people were in the Que. So we went to WHSmiths when we got through. I got a book and a postcard. So did Daniel. Mine was diary of a wimpy kid, Cabin Fever and Daniels was The Hunger Games book 1. We wrote our postcards and went to McDonalds. I had fish and chips dan. had a cheeseburger and chips mum had a milkshake. The gate came up and we went to the gate.

We went to the gate and got on the plane quickly. We got our seats and fastened our belts. I started to read straight away. I ended up finishing the book on the flight which took about 1h 30 mins I love all the Diary of a Wimpy Kid. I have the whole collection now.

We got to Milan airport called Linate. There are 2 airports for Milan, the other is called Malpensa. We use Malpensa when we go to Marrakech. Okay so let me tell you about our hotel.

Our hotel is called Una Century. It has 17 floors with about 10. – 20 rooms on each floor. It has breakfast room, meeting room and many other rooms. It's so big. Our room is big too. The bathroom has a feet washer thing and the bedroom has a big wardrobe and the sitting room has a desk and couch and a TV. Look at the photos and see what I mean.

We went a walk round our area to see what was nearby. We had a pizza in a lovely restaurant. The pizza was beautiful not it tasted good it looked lovely. It was shaped like a heart. <3. I loved it. I'll try uploading a photo of it. We also had ice cream and that was yummy too. It was homemade. Yum.

So that's what we did today. Thanks for reading. Please like, share and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 16: Milan's City

Posted on  July 2, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Sorry I didn't blog yesterday. We walk for ages around Milan and we watched the football by the Duomo. I as so shattered after the long walk. Here is what I did in detail.

Okay so we woke up and had some breakfast. Yummy. We went and got ready for going out a huge walk. We left the hotel and started to walk to some landmarks. We just followed a map the whole way. We ended up at the museum of natural history. I know what you're thinking, it's not like the one in 'Night at The Museum' it's kind of like it but much smaller. We walked in.

Mum went to the desk to buy some tickets to get in. They said that it was free up until July the 30th or something, so we got the tickets and went in. The first bit was animals. We saw Monkeys, Tigers,  
and Lions, elephants, deer and many more. Even penguins. They were very cool to see. I liked the lions best. They looked to cool.

After the animals we went into another area and saw footprints on the ground. They were dinosaur footprints. Unfortunately the dinosaur skeleton was getting rebuilt so we didn't get to see it. We did see it. We did see some precious stones. They cost tons of money. I liked the sparkly purple one the best because purple is my favorite colour. Comment telling me your favorite colour if you like.

We walked out and passed tons of shops. Most of the shops were really expensive. I don't remember what the shop was called but, in the window there was a bag I liked so I looked at the price to get it for school and I don't think you'll believe me but the price was € 729 for the bag with nothing in it.

After that we went down to the Duomo there will be a picture at the end of the Duomo but let's see if I can describe it. Okay it's big and white with lots of statues around it; if you go above it it's shaped like a cross. You can also go on the roof of the Duomo. It's a huge cathedral. It's very beautiful. We got the subway to the big football stadium called San Siro Its where Inter Milan and AC Milan play. It's so big.

We bought tickets for a tour and went inside. We started to tour at the seat in the stadium. We got to sit were the commentators sit. The seats there are comfy. Then we went to the changing rooms of the players. You might have had a tour of Rangers football stadium and the changing rooms are just rooms with hooks and showers that's it. That's not what's in these ones. The InterMilan room has a big TV and benches and hooks and showers kinda the same but ACMilan is so different yes they have hooks and showers but they also have a really comfy chair each, a TV above their seat to show what number sits were, a big ACMilan light and a table with four drawers for dirty tops. I sat in David Beckham's old seat and Ibrahimovic seat. After that we went to the museum. We saw lots of things and then went for the virtual experience me and Daniel play shadow football I won 11-7. Daniel said I cheated but I didn't. So we left the stadium and started to go home.

We paced a lady who had3boys with her who asked were San Siro was we showed them the way and walked on. We walked and walked and walked until we got to the underground again. We got the underground to the Duomo and went to a few more shops. I went in a shop called OVS and bought a bag for €20. Its blue and pink. I love it. We started to walk to the underground again and went home. We went back out after a wee rest.

We went to the restaurant that gave me the heart pizza but it wasn't open so we went to another pizzeria. It was lovely but cost €73 with a tip.to much money. We started to walk to the Duomo to watch the football. Spain won. Well done Spain. There was riot police there incase anything happened, we left the game and walked home. We got to the hotel and kinda conked out right away. I was so tired.

So that's what I did yesterday. Thanks for reading. Please like, share and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 17: going to another hotel.

Posted on  July 2, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Today we woke up and went for breakfast. I had rice crispy. Yummy. We went to get the bags ready for traveling again. We had to part with Ball-e. Daniel cried about not having ball-e anymore. We got the bags sorted and left to get the bus. We bought the tickets and went one the bus. Mum was very paranoid about having the bags underneath the coach after Egypt experience. We traveled to the airport but not for a plane, no to get another hotel. We got to the hotel and chilled there we went to check out what the hotel had for free. Well let me tell you what there was. Xbox, Xbox Kinect, pool, table tennis, Wii and 2computers. I love the hotel. It even had a swimming pool to play in. We went in the pool first.

The pool is jelly bean shaped. Its depth is either 1.45 m or 2.25 m we played in both of them. The pool. I liked it because we played racing games. We felt the pool and went upstairs and got ready for dinner.

We went to the hotel restaurant and found they didn't have a margarita. So we went to reception to see if they knew anywhere to go. We went down a forest bit and found a restaurant. There were horses and doggies next to it. I loved it. The food was yummy and the juice was cool which was great. We went back to the hotel and went to play pool. Daniel won. Well done.

So that's what I did today. Thanks for reading. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 18: Marrekech

Posted on  July 3, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello again,

Today we had a short day. We flew to Marrakech this morning and were very very tired. All of us fell asleep on the plane for a bit and hade some breakfast and juice. It was a long flight around 2 and a half hours. We finally made it to Marrakech. It was boiling.

We found our taxi and got in it. Luckily this was a taxi not a coach. We drove to the hotel. The hotel was beautiful. It was a Novotel but a suite Novotel. It's the same as normal Novotel but bigger and fancier. I like it. It has a pool as well.

Our room has a computer TV so it has internet connection. It has a single and double bed. It also has a desk with 2chairs and a fridge and a microwave and Lots of space. It's near the markets. I like the area.it seems very safe.

We played in the pool and I love to play with my big brother in the pool. It's so fun because he lets me up on his shoulders and dunks me under the water. It's funny when he tries to go on my shoulders because he's too heavy.

Tonight we watched Kung Fu Panda 2 and now were watching Rango. It's so funny.

So that's what I did today hope you enjoyed reading my blog. Please share, like and comment saying what you think.

Yours Amy

P.S it was 42 degrees here today.

 Day 19: old town 2 new town

Posted on  July 4, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello there,

I have recently been told that it's been raining in Glasgow for a few days. Well I'm sorry to say but it's over 35 degrees here. It was 42 earlier on today. So let me tell you about my day.

Today we got up and went for breakfast. Then we went up to get ready properly to go to the markets. We walked to the medina passing lots of interesting things but I especially enjoyed looking at the big Mosque called Koutoubia. It's so pretty. At night you can hear them praying from the hotel. So I'll tell you about the markets.

The markets were cool but there were a few things I hated about it. 1st it was very very busy. 2nd there were tons of animals I know I'm an animal lover but you answer this question. Do you think it's fair for monkeys to be on leashes and getting choked or kittens roaming around looking a wee bit blind and lost or even Donkeys having to drag heavy loads. One of the monkeys had a nappy on, it's so upsetting. A man had a sheep on his back. We went in a few shops looking for a Rolex for Daniel. He wants to get one so badly. I got presents for my friends in one of the shops. Still need to get some of them for other people too. I hope they like them.

We went back to the hotel. We had a long rest in the room then we went down to the pool. I went straight in not caring how cold the pool was. I played in there without Daniel then he came in too. We had fun. We played a game called the shoulder game. I get on Daniels shoulders and he dunks me under. He doesn't mind. We played chases racing and then left to get ready to get dinner.

We had to go to the new town for dinner. The man at the desk said we should get a taxi there because it was far away but it was about 10 minutes away. We had a McDonalds which was way better than any other McDonalds ever. I love it or should I say, I'm loving it!! On the way home we saw loads of orange trees. They were huge.

So that's what I did today. Thanks for reading. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##  Day 20: souks

Posted on July 5, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello again,

Today we went to the souks which are a big market near the medina square. The market is where the monkeys and snake charmers and donkeys where. I have released that I might have miss wrote that wee but in my last blog. I said I hated all the things about animals having to earn money and give transportation but that doesn't mean everyone has to hate it. My uncle Russell commented last night saying that we might not think its right but its life to the people there. So thanks Uncle Russell for that advice and I do understand now that they have to live that way.

The souks are cool. Its tons and tons of streets with every stall you could think of. Food stalls, bag stalls, shoe stalls, puppet stalls and even phone stalls. Guess how much an IPhone 4S costs. 4500 DH (there currency) there probably just ones they've stolen like in Egypt or something like that. They also had iPad, blackberry's, nokias and Samsung's. I load of fake stuff that would break after 1 hour or so. Anyway let me tell you more.

First we went to the medina square just to get to the souks and we saw the monkeys again. One of them was doing backflips and all that. I thought that was quite cool to be honest. We saw the snake charmers too. That was cool. When we went to the souks we saw a man whom was carrying live rabbits in his hand. That totally scared me. One tried to jump away but couldn't. It was still very hot even though it was cooler than yesterday.

We got in the souks and went a wee look about. I didn't see anything I liked but I got some more presents for friends. Just a few for family like grannies and my daddy and one more friend. He has requested me to get one for him in Madrid so if anyone knows any cheap shops in Madrid I can get something comment please. We looked for a Rolex for my big brother Daniel. He saw some he liked but couldn't get them to fit so he left the souks and went back to the medina. He saw a Rolex in the last shop and it fit him so he got a Rolex for 200 DH. Not bad for someone who can't bargain. I got a pair of RayBans for 30 DH which is £3 so that was cheap.

We left the medina and the souks and went to the supermarket and then to the hotel. We had a nice long rest and then went down to the pool. We played for an hour or so then went to get dress for dinner. We went a walk to the new town again and found. A pizza hut. It was nice and tasty. We went back to the hotel and watched Transformers 3 for the 2nd time. It was good.

Thanks for reading. Please like, share and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##

Day 21: tour buses

Posted on  July 6, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we got up and went for breakfast. I had an apple because I wasn't hungry and some juice. Orange juice here is very fresh because oranges are grown here so there probably freshly squeezed. The apples are huge too. I think they grow apples here too. They are very, very juicy. We went upstairs and decided what to do today. We decide to go on a bus tour of Marrakech. It was really cool.

We got on the bus and got earphones and our tickets. The earphones were so we could here all about the history and culture of Marrakech. We first passed the wall separating the old town from the new town. It has holes in it in case they need to do any scaffolding work on it. It was a very old, tall, reddish wall. Then we passed the medina and the souks. We passed lots of shops and restaurants and other buildings too. We even passed our favorite restaurant, McDonalds. We saw lots of animals such as, dogs, cats, birds, camels and Shetland horses. They were very cute the Shetland horses. One looked like me with his or her fringe over his or her eye. That was cute. We saw the palace as well. We got off the bus outside our hotel. We went inside and had a rest.

We had a long rest then went down to the pool. We went swimming, well I did Daniel didn't want to come in. I did some kind of diving thing were I had to see how far I could go under water and swimming at the same time. I got 9 steps away from the starting point. I thought I couldn't do any better after around 10 attempts at it so I gave up. I did some hand stands and rolls under water then decide to get out the pool. We went upstairs and I had a shower then went for some McDonalds. We walked to the wee area where the McDonalds was and went in. We got the same things as we normally get at home. It tastes way better than the ones at home though. We finished and walked to the medina.

We got to the medina and went a look around. We passed the mendhi stalls and a lady gave me it without my permission. It stung and then stopped again. It turned out very pretty in the end. It cost us £5. I'll put a picture up at the end of my blog. We went a look around the rest of the stalls and then decide to go after watching the monkeys and snakes. I still didn't like it very much. We found the bus stop to take us to our hotel and got on it. We got back to the hotel and went upstairs. We put the TV on to watch another film and picked puss in boots. It didn't work to well so we picked Hop instead. It was very funny. I love hop.

Thank you for reading my blog today. Please like, share and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 22: Doing nothing

Posted on  July 7, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we woke up and went for breakfast. The yogurts are yummy. We went upstairs and chilled. We watched the news and we also watched puss in boots. I liked it a lot. My favorite character in puss in boots is Kitty Soft Paws. She looked like my mums friends kitten which she was giving away. We thought she looked so cute and her eyes were blue. Awwwww kittens with blue eyes are really, really cute. All these movies like, Shrek and Disney and Pixar, you know what's going to happen. The goodie wins or the baddie wins but it all turns out good in the end. It was a good movie but a wee bit repetitive. We got a bit bored so we went to our favorite place in Marrakech, the souks.

The souks are cool. Really, it's nice and chilled there. It was too be blazing sun here but well you'll find out later on. We went a look about for anything that was cheap. I got an anklet with an eye in it. I think for me it represents how much I like to read and one of the characters in my favorite book, a serious of unfortunate events. Count Olaf. He has a tattoo of an eye on his left ankle. I like the anklet because it's gold and because it fits perfectly. We went looking for a guitar for my brother. I don't know why he wanted an out of tune guitar. He has one at home any way. When we were walking down the last street, it started to rain. It was nice and cooling but the forecast was wrong. We had to walk all the way back to the hotel in rain. It was thunder as well and a wee bit of lightning. It was so unexpected. We went back up to the room until it was dinner time.

We got ready to go and left the hotel. We walked to the McDonalds and ordered our meal. We got our order and went upstairs to some empty tables. We sat down and started to eat our food. Mums cup was a large but was only half filled, terrible. We ate our chips and fish and burger and chicken thing. We all thought our meals were tasty but mum didn't think it was the best one she had had. We got out McDonalds and started to walk home. We went in the supermarket for some juice and food. We got what we needed and left. We passed the other hotels and some horses. Some of the horses got grumpy and started to fight other horses. We walked passed more kitties and dogs and then got to our hotel. We got the lift to the 4th floor and went to our room. We got in and looked for a new movie to watch. We watched tower heist. It was funny. It had a few swear words in it but nothing else. We put the news on again and that's it.

Yesterday I forgot to put a very nice thing for me in. My mum bought Justin Bieber tickets for next year so in March for my birthday I get to go see Justin Bieber. I can't wait to see him. I have to miss 2 or 3 days of school. He plays in London. I can't wait. It's going to be great. Thanks mummy!!! I love you soo much. <3

Thanks for reading. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 23: tombs and souks

Posted on  July 8, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we woke up and went for breakfast. We headed back upstairs to decide what to do today. We had a long, long rest before doing anything. I fell asleep for a few hours. I was in a grumpy mood before I fell asleep but woke up dead happy. We decide to go to the tombs and to the souks. I went in for a wake up shower and got dressed and ready to leave.

We walked out the hotel and walked across the street. We got to a taxi area and hopped in. It cost 15 DH to get a taxi to the tombs which is around £1.50 we got to the tombs and bought our tickets. I got in for free. So it cost £2 to get in. We walked down a path to the tombs. We saw some cats. A ginger tabby and a grey tabby. They were very cute. We got to the area were the tombs were and it wasn't what I expected. I learned that the cats that were at the tombs were guarding them. We saw 2 big storks and more kitties. The tombs were like big stones laid flat on the ground with lots of different colours in them. The looked really pretty. The roofs were painted using gold. They were really pretty too. We walked out of the tombs and the path and back to the entrance.

We walked down some streets until we got to the souks. We went a wander round the medina first then to the souks. We went to a shop that sold earphones and other gadgets. Daniel saw a pair of beats he wanted. They were in ear ones. He got them for 100 DH which is around £10 and I got in another shop headphones beats for 100DH they are purple. I like the sound of them. We walked round for the last time and left. We walked back to the hotel to have another rest. I charged my phone and plugged my headphones in. We got out the hotel and went for a McDonalds again. We walked out and down the street. We passed the orange trees and horses and made it to the McDonalds. We ordered and got our food. We got our seats and started to eat. We talked about school and stuff like that and then got an ice cream then went out. We walked back to the hotel and started to repack again. After we finished that we put a movie on again. Mission Impossible 4. It was good.

So that's what we did today. Thanks for reading. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##  Day 24: Lyon.

Posted on July 9, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello again,

Today we were traveling to Lyon. We had  
to wake up at 5 30. I was so tired. We got our stuff all ready the night before so we just had to pack the toothbrushes and hairbrush. We packed them and got dressed. We double checked everything and then left the hotel room. We went down the lift to the lobby to checkout and get our taxi. Our taxi was already there. We got in it and drove to the airport.

When we got in the airport, we went to a money exchange desk. We changed all our extra DH for euros. We only have Europe left until we are done. We sat down on the blue seats and waited for the baggage check in was open. We waited for about 10 minutes then the check in opened. We ran right over to the desk and put our big bag on the conveyer and went to passport control. We had to sign a form to go through passport control. We filled it out and went through. We all beeped and got searched. We got our bags and other stuff and went to the gate bit. We waited for an hour or so, and then we queued up to get on. The flight was delayed for about 45 minutes and then finally we got on.

We took our seats and picked what we wanted for breakfast. Mum told me that I could get Rory's story cubes. I want to be a writer when I grow up so that will help me. We took off and the cart with the food and drinks came. We ordered our food and got it. We ate it very quickly because we were hungry. Me and Daniel got beats in Marrakech so we listened to Daniel's music because mine were in my case. We listened to deadmau5 which is my big brothers favorite DJ. I kinda like it but it can get a wee bit annoying listening to it every single day, which Daniel does. We were being a wee bit silly. If you have seen puss in boots you probably know the cat that makes the funny noise, well me and Dan were imitating him. It was quite funny actually. Finally the Rory's story cubes thing came round. I got them and opened them. We rolled the dice and made up funny and silly stories. Here's one of the top of my head the now. Ok once upon a time, you need to start with that.

Once upon a time there was a very, very old castle called, Burrywood Castle. It was next to the old burrywood woods. It was a very famous castle too. The castle was said to be so tall that you could touch planes during the day and shooting stars at night. It would be really cool to touch a shooting star. One day, the burrywood castle doors mysteriously locked by themselves. Nobody was inside though. Nobody could open the doors to get in either. A few police came to the old castle to try open it, but couldn't. Then after a few more police and fire men came the woods turned into a blazing glow of red, orange and yellow. It was a forest fire. People did say that year and years ago there was a few teenagers playing around with fire in the woods and died because the fire which they made to keep them self warm spread to trees and bushes and then the whole woods. That was just a myth because it wasn't true. Inspector Nosious was the detective that was in charge of the fire and locking of the doors. He had a very bright light bulb over his head. He said he was going to go with his shiny magnifying glass and investigate the fire and locking of doors properly. He read a big book called "Burrywoods legends." He stayed up all night long to study the book and slept all day until he was ready to go out and investigate. They never found out what the cause of the fire or the locking was. They say that you can still here the banging on the doors trying to get in the castle and the crackling of the woods burning. They also say you can still here the footsteps of Inspector Nosious trying to find the cause of this strange happening. The End. I got that story from 9 pictures of a castle, arrow pointing up, plane, shooting stars, key hole, fire, light bulb, magnifying glass and a book. If you like this please comment saying so and I will write more for you. Thank you.

Anyway I made that up in the hotel just 5 minutes ago but let's get back to today. We got off the plane and got our bag. We headed out the door to the train station. We walked down to the station and to the train. We got on the train and bought our tickets. We went through a lot of towns then to our stop. We had to get the metro to another station and then to our hotel. We got on the metro and took a seat. We waited until our stop. We got off and walked outside. We were in the middle of a square. We looked about for the street names and couldn't find our street. We walked about and then found our hotel. It's on top of tons of streets filled with shops. We went in and got our room. It has an awesome bath. I like the hotel room. Its Campbell sized.

We changed our clothes and got out the hot room. We went a walk down the street to find a super market or restaurant for dinner. We found both. We got water and juice from the supermarket then put it in our room and went out for dinner. We went to a wee pizza place which was not bad. They had olives on the pizza though. Yuck!!! I ate most of mine but I had Jaffa cakes before we went out so I wasn't really that hungry. We went back to the room and that's it. I wrote the story in the hotel which I enjoyed.

Thanks for reading. Please if you liked this share it and like it. Pleas comment as well saying what you thought. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 25: under the horses tail

Posted on  July 10, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we woke up and lay in bed for a while. Then my mum said we had to go do the laundry so, I got up and got dressed and brushed my teeth and got washed. We got all the dirty clothes and went to do the washing. We walked to the launderette. We got to the launderette and put our money and clothes in the machine and waited for it to finish. I had my phone and beats so I listened to my music. We went to the supermarket for lunch. We walked back to the launderette and put the clothes in the tumble dryer. We waited for a few minutes and then got the clothes and went back to our hotel. We found Daniel was ready to go out. I can't believe it. We said we had a while till we had to go out. We had our lunch and then went out to meet our tour guide Sabine.

We left the hotel and walked until we got under the horses tail. It was a statue of a horse. We sat down and waited for Sabine to come. A woman across from us had a wee tiny kitten with her. We thought that was so so cute. We waited for a wee bit longer then Sabine came. She said we would go to the Notre-dame de fourviere, another chapel and a museum. We left the horse to get the train up to the Notre-dame de fourviere. We bought our tickets and went on the train. The train took us up to the chapel. We stopped and got out. We walked to the front of the chapel. It was very beautiful. We went in and looked up at the ceiling it was very beautiful too. It was very detailed. There were also lots of paintings on the walls. They were very colourful. They told stories but we didn't get told them. We exited the chapel and looked over a wall. The city of Lyon looked too big from our view. We were so high up. We saw the pencil (big hotel) and the big square with the horse in it. It looked so small but big at the same time. We got told we had to walk back down. It was a huge walk. We walked down a path and turned then another path then turned and again and again and again. We got told to stay together because it was easy to get lost. A wee girl got lost and was shouting her mum and then found her. We walked on and got to a huge flight of stairs. We started our journey down. I got to the bottom first. Sabine, mum and Daniel looked very tired when they got to the bottom, I wasn't tired at all. We walked down to some streets and went through a secret passageway.

The passageway was for the war. It was made so the French could hide from the Nazis when the war was. Now it is used as houses. I thought it was very historical. It looked new and in good condition but it was really hundreds of years old. It costs a fortune to buy a house there or anywhere in Lyon itself. I wouldn't live in France at all. I don't like the food there so, I wouldn't live there. Mums sick of us because we don't eat anything. She wants proper food, we want pizza. We ended up at a busy street. There were lots of shops like, restaurants, crepes, souvenir shops and puppet shops. There were two museums too. A puppet one and a cinema one. The puppet one I didn't like and the cinema one I did like. We will be going to that and the zoo tomorrow. I can't wait. We walked to another chapel and then back to the square. We went to the town hall as well. There was a huge statue outside the hall. It was a few horses. They had steam coming from their noses. They looked to realistic. We walked back to the square and said bye to Sabine.

We walked back to the hotel for a rest them out again but we went for ice cream before that. I had chocolate and vanilla mum had strawberry and vanilla and Daniel had strawberry and chocolate. We all liked it. We went to our hotel and had our rest. We went back out to see the shops I went into Claire's accessories. I bought a double ring with hearts on it. We went into a shop which me and Daniel bought matching cardigans for school. They are funky. They are black with two white stripes on the right sleeve. After that we went in another shop. My mum's friend Lorna has told me to try some of the French foods. I did. I tried snails Lorna they were very tasty. I want them again. I'll put a picture of me eating them at the end. Comment if you think you would like to try snails that I had. We walked to try and find a dinner place and we went over the river. We found a restaurant that sold pizza. We went in and got our seats. We ordered and ate our food. We finished our meal and left. We went back to the hotel and that's it.

Thanks for reading. Please like, share and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

Here's todays story

Once upon a time there lived a fish and a beetle. They lived on earth under a bridge in a TP with water under the bridge. The bridge was next to Burywood castle. They still saw inspector Nosious investigating the locks and fire. They watched him go everyday back a forth to the castle and the woods and back again. He found footsteps coming from the middle of the woods going in the castle. He wandered why he kept seeing these footsteps. He thought the first time he saw them that it was his imagination, but wasn't. He had a very large watch on his left wrist. He seemed to write notes every time he looked at the watch. He looked up a lot as well to see if there was a rope that someone had climbed to get in and lock the doors. He never found the ropes but he still looked every day. The beetle and fish were scared that the inspector was mad but never approached the small man. They hoped that one day he would find the causes of these scary incidences but as you know, they never found out the cause.

If you liked this edition to Burywood mysteries. Keep reading to find out what happened next. Thanks again.

##

##   Day 26: hanging with the animals at the movies.

Posted on  July 11, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we went to the zoo and a museum. We went to the museum first. We walked passed a few shops and Daniel got a fright. A wee baby was sitting at a window in a shop with his mouth on the window and his eyes were wide open. It was funny seeing Daniels face. We walked over the river and to the other side. We walked down a street then got to the museum. We went in and if any of you have seen I, robot. Will Smiths movie. We saw the battle robot. The one with all the bumps and rips. It was so cool. We also saw the green goblins mask, batman's mask, gizmo, evil gremlins, terminator, and victor from a movie called corps bride, that's a cartoon, Indianan jones hat, the sixth sense scripts, Gordy the pig and Minotaurs head. It was all the real props that were used. I like seeing the scripts and victor. We got to the end of the museum and went outside. We saw a crepe shop and ordered two chocolate crepes. They were the best crepes ever. We sat down to eat them and then went over to the underground. We went down the stairs and bought our tickets. We went through the gate and waited for the train. We got on it and talked. We talked until we stopped and got off the train. We went up the stairs and looked for the right street to go down.

We went down the wrong street at first. Then we walked back up that street and down the right one. We walked then found the park that had the zoo in it. We walked in and got to the zoo. We looked about for where to start and decide to look at the elephants first. They were cool. They were very big and fat. We saw another habitat and looked there. We didn't see any animals there. It was meant to be bears and they were not out. Not fair. Anyway we sat down on a bench. We saw a little boy with a toy windmill and we saw him come over. He hit us with his windmill and got smacked by his guardian. We got up and walked over to another bit. It was water buffalo. It was huge. I thought they looked quite scary. We walked to another bit and saw crocodiles. They were huge. They looked so cool. We walked over to trees in glass cages. They were monkeys. They were awesome. There was a forty year old monkey there. The oldest monkey in a zoo. We walked round looking at the monkeys then came to another habitat. There were little dog things and tortoise. They looked amazing. We went to a wee shop and got slush puppies. Cola flavour. Daniel got a cone too. We sat down on a bench and drank our juice and Daniel ate his cone. Mum had bought a sandwich so she didn't want anything. We went to see if there were any giraffes. They did. They were awesome. We walked round and saw lake with boats in it. We went round the lake and rented a boat. We went out in the lake and peddled the boat. It was cool. We saw ducks and geese. We went back to shore and went out the park and went to the station and went back to the hotel.

We had ice cream before we went back up to our hotel. It was yummy. We walked to the hotel and upstairs. We had a rest then went back out. We went over to McDonald and had some dinner. We got our food and went upstairs. We ate our food then went for a wee shopping time. We mum bought 2 bracelets and me and dan. bought more ice cream. It was scrummy. We went back to the hotel and that's it.

Thanks for reading. Please like, share and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

Here's todays story

Once upon a time at burywood castle the TP under the bridge had fallen over crushing the beetle and the fish. A friendly bee flew over to help them. He said to the fish and beetle, "hello, I'm buzzer do you need any help. Bzzzzz" they laughed and said "No thanks Buzzer were ok. Thanks anyway. Bzzzzz" he laughed and flew away. He saw Inspector Nosious still walked to and forth from the castle to the woods. We looked through the keyhole and saw a tall shadow. He also saw a hand holding a walking stick trying to touch the planes and stars. I used a magnet to see if there was anything magnetic in the castle. Never got anything. Buzzer flew in the castle because he could fit through the keyhole and saw something tall, skinny and dark....... What was it??????? Find out in my next blog.

Thanks for reading my blog and story today. Hope you enjoyed it. I use my story cubes every time I write the story that's why it might seem a wee bit random. Thanks again.

##

##   Day 27: going to Rome

Posted on  July 12, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we were going to Rome. We had to get up early to catch our train and the metro and our flight. We went to the metro station after getting dressed. We went out our room and to the reception. We gave our key back to the receptionist and walked out the hotel. We walked passed our favorite shop called, Sucxs. It's a sweet shop. I love them. We hot to the metro station and went to get the train. We got on the train and waited until our stop. We had to get another train to the airport. We got on it and waited until we got to the airport. Me and Daniel sat down on the floor for a rest. We got to our stop and got off the train. We went up the stairs quickly and to the terminal we needed.

We got to security and went through. Daniel beeped going through the walking thingy. You know how on the UK passports it has Latin writing on it; well I didn't know what it was and said it was gibberish. It is gibberish. It looks like a baby has been on a computer keyboard or something like that. We got our stuff and went to wait at the gate. We got to a little cafe thing and bought a drink each and a packet of Mikado's to share. We sat at a table and tucked in. We waited for our gate to come up. I read my book while quizzing Daniel on his capitals. Mum played too. Me and mum went to the toilet and we had to go in the men's one. Yuck. It was horrible. Girls and boys in the same toilet. Double yuck. Comment if this has happened to you before.

We went back to Daniel and then went to our gate. We waited in the Que. and got to another Que. We waited in that Que. and then got on the plane. We got our seats and sat down with our seat belts fastened. We waited for takeoff and bought some muffins and more juice. We saw the Alps again. I don't know if you heard but there was a huge avalanche in the French Alps today. Hope the people in the accident are ok. We got to Rome quickly.

We landed and got off the plane. We headed to the baggage claim. It took for ages. We waited and waited then Daniel spotted a sign. It said," fake crocodile real risk" so that means that Rome is strict on fake stuff. Opppppss. We finally got our bag and went to the bus shuttle. We got on a bus that went to central station. We got on it and took our valuables on too. Me and mum played Sudoku. It was fun. She's way better than me. We eventually arrived at the central station. We walked to the bit on our map and started to walk to our hotel. We found it. We checked in and went to our room.

Our room is tiny. It had a big and wee bed, a desk with chair which is tiny and a big bathroom. Our bath is a jacuzzi bath. I can't wait to use it. We freshened up and went for dinner.

We went a walk to see what there was. We saw a pizzeria and walked on. We saw other restaurants. We saw a man coming towards us but far away. He through a glass bottle at the ground and it almost hit us. It shattered and we walked in the other direction. We saw a shop that sold postcards and that kind of stuff. We bought a postcard each and Daniel bought some things too. He bought a keyring and a necklace. It has a face saying lol for ages on it it's not that funny. We walked back to the pizzeria and got our table. We ordered and waited for our food. It was a wait well waiting for. It was beautiful. Yummy. I loved our pizza and the water was fresh too. We went a wander after wards and found a big chapel. It was huge. It was shaped like a cross. I had to use a scarf to cover me because you're not allowed bare arms. It was cool. We went over to a gigantic fountain. We saw wee birds having a wash and a bird was just floating about in the fountain. It was beautiful. We went over to McDonalds for ice cream and went back to our hotel.

We put the TV on and chilled. Mum tweeted cafe mambo shop asking for a new bag cause hers is gubbed. They said we can have one so Ibiza new bag and Daniel tweeted them too. Daniel loves deadmau5 and he gave cafe mambo shop his hat he wore. Daniel is allowed to wear it. I tweeted them but just to say that Daniel is my bro and square Claire is my mum. That's it.

Thanks for reading my blog today. I love your comments. Keep them coming. Please share and  
Like thanks again.

Yours Amy

Instead of a story today I'm doing something a wee bit different just today. My mum had had to set exams for work this year, and she found out today that she passed it. I just want to say how proud I am of her. I love you mummy. I know I can be annoying but I want to let you know that I love you to pieces. Thanks mummy for everything you do!!!!

##

##   Day 28: Ruins, time traveling, museum and entertainment.

Posted on  July 13, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today was a busy day. We walked about everywhere. We got the bus as well to a museum. Okay let me tell you about my day. We got up and went for breakfast. We went down the stairs then down more stairs. We got to the breakfast room. We got a plate and got food. I got cake and a yogurt. I also got orange juice. It was yummy!!!!!!! It was a chocolate cake. We got our seat and started to eat. We ate until we were full. We walked back up both stairs and got to our room. We went in and went for showers. We got changed and ready to go out.

We walked down the stairs and gave our key to reception. We walked out the hotel and to the train station. We looked for a ticket booth and then found one. We bought bus tickets and went to catch our bus. We got to the bus stop and got on the bus. We sat down and waited for our stop. We passed the beautiful fountain. It's so nice and peaceful. We finally got to our stop. We got off the bus and looked at our map. We found where we were and looked for where we wanted to go. We got to our place and it was the Leonardo Da Vinci Museum. It had all his inventions in it.

We walked in and bought our tickets. We walked down the stairs. We got to the first section of his inventions. It was cool. We played with his things. We saw a kind of swingy thing that was awesome. We also saw the biggest Tank in the world. We saw a swimming glove, flying machine, cannon, bell player, 8 gun things and another flying machine. It was pretty cool. We also saw some of his paintings. They were not the real things he made. They were made by other people for show. We walked out of the museum and down the street. We went to a wee market place.

We looked around. Mum got a fruit cup while me and Daniel got ice cream. We are very healthy people. Well mum is anyway. It's very true. Anyway we looked about and I had a drink out of a fountain. It was cool. You put your hand under it and it squirts upwards so you can drink it easier. We walked down to find some old roman ruins we saw some far away too but we walked down another street to a time traveling experience thing to learn about ancient Rome. We found it and paid our money. We walked in and waited until it was time to sit down.

We sat down on our seats and pit our head phones on. We waited for it too start. It started and we started to move. We went through time to 700 BC or something like that. You know in Rome you get the wolf and the babies drinking her milk. We learned how that came to be. A woman had twin baby boys. I can't remember their names but let's call them Bobby and Jacob. The king at the time told the woman to see him and bring her sons. She went and the man took the babies. He said he was going to kill them so they couldn't become king. He told his guard thingy to take them to the forest and kill them. He took the baby boys to the forest. He saw some wolfs. He didn't want to kill the babies so he left them with the wolfs. A female wolf adopted them. She raised the twins by herself. They drank her milk like in the statue. They say that's how they became so strong. Bobby wanted to start building Rome when he was older on a hill and Jacob wanted to build it next to the river. Jacobs real name was Romulus and Bobby's real name was Remus. Romulus killed his brother so he could build Rome on the river side. That's why it's called Rome. We also learned about how the sculptures and paintings in old chapels came to be. A man called Michelangelo was an artist and got told to paint some paintings for the chapel. He painted all about Jesus and the cross and that kind of stuff and got told to start again. He got mad and didn't want to start again. He painted more Jesus things and made sculptures that are very famous and stuff like that. He became a very famous artist. We also learned about how Cesar was killed. He went to his palace and had a meeting with his royal helpers. They had planned to murder him because he was a dictator. They listened to his then went to hug him and....... BANG he was stabbed by four people. He was dead. We learned about the black plague as well. That was a decease carried by rats and mice. Half of the population in Rome died because of this terrible thing. When the man in the film thing got a rat up is trouser leg, air blew our feet and it felt like rats climbing over our feet. It was funny. Daniel and I jumped out of our skin. The thing finished and we walked out.

We went to a wee shop and bought a big bottle of water and lollypops. We walked to the coliseum too. It was huge. We passed ruins as well. They were cool. We walked some more and got to the coliseum. I bought a purple, heart, glass necklace. Daniel helped me put it on. We got to the front of the coliseum. It was massive. I thought it looked so cool and well preserved. I think it looks better now than in ancient times. It looks to small but huge at the same time. We didn't go in it because we didn't have enough money. We will go in but not tomorrow because we go to a village of ruins. I liked it. We walked back to the hotel for a rest.

We got to hotel and I watched a movie. It was called bridge to teribithia. It was good. The ending was sad though. It has a good morel. The morel is keeping your mind open and use your imagination for everything. I liked it and it made me think of how many ways I could write a story. We went back out for some dinner then back to the hotel. We walked out and went around the block. We found a restaurant. It was tasty. I had pizza and coke. So did my brother and mum had pasta. We liked it and paid for our meal. Daniel said "mum desert stomach is empty again!" so we went to get some ice-cream. Mum had nuttella flavoured. I had chocolate and Daniel had chocolate mint. We walked back to the hotel and went to our room. Mum ran me a bath and I went in. I liked it. I got out and put my pjs on. I started to do my blog and that's it.

Thanks for reading, please like, share and comment saying what you think. If you have any writing idea please comment telling me. Thanks again

Yours Amy

Here's todays story

Once upon a time. On earth, buzzer the bee was still in the castle looking at the shadow. He saw that a turtle had come along and helped pull the TP up so the beetle and fish were saved. Buzzer sighed in relief. He also saw footprints on the castle floors leading to the shadow who looked like was holding a magic black wand. The wand had an image of 8 arrows pointing to every direction. The arrows were as green as a green alien's skin. He looked at the shadow wondering what to do. He didn't want to get in trouble so he stepped back but he went forwards again then back. Buzzer was confused on what to do. He decided to follow the shadow to see what he was up to. What did he find out about this shadowy thing? Find out in my next blog. Thanks for reading my blog today hope you enjoyed. Bye

##

##   Day 29: Ahhhhhhh I've lost my head.

Posted on  July 14, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today was a busy day. We went to the Ostia Antica and the coliseum. It was awesome. Let me tell you about it. We went down the stairs and had some breakfast. We went upstairs afterwards and got ready and went out. We went to the train station and got the train to a pyramid. It was a small stop and we only got off to get another train. We got on the next train and waited for our stop. We got to our stop and got off and went to Ostia Antica.

We went in after buying our tickets. We looked for the cemetery and looked about. We went up the street a bit and saw the entrance to the city of Ostia. People were put outside the city when they died. I don't know why though. We went through the ruins and got in the city. We passed the houses and warehouses. We got to the theatre and saw Meowski. He liked us. He was so friendly. He was a grey tabby. Awwwwww. We went round and saw the baths. We passed tons of butterflies. They were pretty. We saw a roman temple and military camp. I thought Ostia was a nice wee ruin city. All the statues had no heads. We don't know why though. If you know why the statues in Ostia have no heads please can you tell me? Thank you.

We left Ostia and got the train back to the hotel. We went up the stairs to our room for a rest. We rested for a while and then went to the coliseum. We walked out the hotel and down the street. We passed a wee shop with clothes in it. We went for a look and I ended up buying a turquoise cardigan. I wore it all night long until the now. We walked down to the coliseum and went inside. We went in the Que. and got in. It was so cool. We saw all the gaps which the animals were in and the gates the gladiators would come out of. We also saw another cat sleeping on a rock. Awww he was a black one. We saw more statues with no heads then the heads of the statues. They said they lost their head then found them. They looked scary. We also saw that even then in the roman times people grafting on the walls and seat. They played games and slept and ate in the middle of a gladiator match. It looked funny in the drawings. I liked the coliseum but it looks better outside because it's all ruins. It was very cool to see it all. We went out and walked down the street we saw like 7 weddings at the same time. The brides were so pretty.

We walked down more streets then found a restaurant. We sat down and ordered. We ate our food then walked home. A man had an accordion was playing just one corneto on it. It was funny. Mum was singing along. We walked back to the hotel and that's it.

Thanks for reading my blog today. I hoped you enjoyed. Please like, share and comment saying what you think. Thanks again

Yours Amy

Today I'm doing something different. Instead of a story, I'm going to write a poem. Here it is. It's called Myfuntastictrip

My mum has chose to take us on,  
Myfuntastictrip,  
She has worked hard and long,  
To get this holiday on,  
And it's all came true,  
The time has flew,  
Myfuntastictrip is almost through,  
I hope this never ends.

What do you think I should do, story or poem. Please I can't decide you pick for me. Thanks again.

##

##   Day 30: hitting the shops

Posted on  July 15, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello again,

Today we slept in until lunch time. We went to sleep late so we needed the extra sleep. We got up and waited until we woke up properly. Me and mum went to the launderette to wash the dirty clothes. We walked down the street and got to the shop. We paid the man and left him to do the washing. Mum said we should go to the shops for breakfast. We walked down the street again and got to the shop. We went in and I got an apple. We went to get bread but they didn't have French sticks so, we went to the biscuit ales and bought some bueno bars. We went and got a big bottle of water and we paid for our things. Mum said that we should paint our nails with bright colours. We saw some nail polish but it wasn't bright enough so we waited until later on. We walked back to the hotel and went to our room. We waited until the washing was finished, which took an hour, to be done. We went to the launderette. We got our clothes and went back to the hotel. We put the bag in the shop and went out to go to the shops.

We went outside the hotel and went down the street. We found the street we had to go down and started walking. We walked and walked then found a makeup shop with a sale. We went in and saw nail polish. I bought bright yellow nail polish and mum bought sparkly pink. I we also bought lipstick. I like the colours of my makeup. It's very bright. We walked on and found the bug street with shops. We walked down and went in a few but didn't buy anything. Daniel found a pair of shoes he liked but didn't buy them. We found the Trevi fountain and went to see it. We walked down to find it. It was huge and beautiful. We went near it and threw a penny in. It's a myth that if you throw a coin in it shows you will come back to Rome again. I hope I do come back. We walked back to the street and looked for the Spanish steps. We found the street that lead to it and walked down it. We went for ice cream and bought some. I still think that Lyons ice cream is the best ever. We climbed up the steps and went to find a pizzeria for food.

We found a place that sold pizza and juice and garlic bread for €10. We got a table and ordered. We got our food and juice. We ate it even though it wasn't that nice. We went to a shop afterwards to buy Daniel a new jumper. I ended up buying another bag. It's very cool. It's a bag with shoes and real laces on it. I like it very much. We went to another shop and got Daniel a jumper. It's cool. It has the word Italy on it. We started to walk home. We went back to the hotel and chilled.

That's what we did today. Thanks for reading. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

I have packed my story cubes so I can't write and story or poem today. Sorry.

##

##   Day 31: were going to Ibiza

Posted on  July 17, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we got up early and went for breakfast. We went back upstairs and got packed and checked all the hotel room for any items that might have gotten left behind. We got our things together and left the hotel. We walked over to the hotel shuttle buses and got on one. We waited until everyone else was on and we left to go to the airport.

We got to the airport and walked to terminal 2. We got to our line and put our bag through then went to security. Yes security is my favorite bit. We got our things then went to the gate. We went passed tons of shops to reach our gate. I read some of my book. A serious of unfortunate events. I'm on the 8th book out of 13 and it's so good. We realized the gate was wrong so we walked quickly over to the right gate. We stood in line and got on the plane.

We sat down then tons of big annoying men sat around us. They talked and talked the whole flight. We got some more food on the3 plane then got a wee pal. His name is Gulliver. He is an EasyJet bear. Mum got it for our mascot. He's so cute. He has a wee cabin crew outfit. he is soo fluffy I'm gonna die.

We got off the plane and went to get our bag. We went back outside and got the bus to Els Pins. The same hotel we have been in before. We got on the bus then got off the bus outside hotel. We walked in and got our room. We went to the room and chilled for a bit. We went for dinner then to watch the sunset at cafe mambo. We saw Axwell at cafe mambo. it was awesome until lots of illumounus girls came. We walked back over then went to bar me. It's the best bar ever. They didn't remember us at first but then they did.

Thanks for reading my blog today. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 32: a day at the pool

Posted on  July 18, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we went to the pool to play all day. I met this really cool girl called Lilley and she is my new friend. Let me tell you about it.

We woke up and went for breakfast. We went out to the pool and got our sun cream on. We went in the pool. I liked doing tricks with Bethany. She is another friend. We went for a wee swim together then I saw Lilley. I was nervous to talk to Lilley but I made friends later on. We played there until lunch then we went to the shops.

We went to the cafe mambo shop and pacha and f*** me I'm famous shop too. I got my daddy something from the pacha shop and I also got a pencil from the pacha shop. Daniel got to wear a deadmau5 head. Deadmau5 wore it in the shop as well. We went back and I got a T-shirt saying Ibiza and it's a short T-shirt. You can see my belly button and half of my arm. It's funky. We went back to the hotel and chilled.

We went to kumharas to watch the sunset. It was beautiful. It sunk right into the sea. The sunset is a great time to get pictures. I like the music they play went the sun goes down because it's nice and chilled. I had a great day today/yesterday.

Thanks for reading my blog today. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

My story cubes are in the room so here's a poem about fish and the sea.

Under the sea there are fish,  
So many swimming around,  
They are all different colours,  
Some are nowhere to be found.

The sea has lots of seaweed,  
Its so slimy and green,  
I sometimes wonder,  
If it can be seen.

Under the sea there are fish,  
Blue, yellow, and red,  
I wonder what they use,  
As a bed.

The sea has tons of rocks,  
Some of them are slippy,  
Crabs live in rocks,  
They sometimes can be nippy.

Under the sea there are fish,  
They look so pretty,  
I wonder if i'll ever see,  
Anything like this.

##

##  Day 33: pool day

Posted on July 20, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello there,

Today we played in the pool all day. I played with Lilley and Macie and Harry. Lilleys my age harry is 4 and Macie is 5. We had fun. We played jumps in the pool. They tried to tip me over on a li-lo. It was funny. I kind of had to pretend that they tipped me. It was funny though. We also played mini golf after lunch. Lilleys nickname is cheater girl because she is always cheating. I on the mini golf then we went back to the pool.

We played there for about 20minutes then we had to get out for dinner. We went and got dried and shower and that then came down for dinner. We had to eat quickly because we wanted to see the sunset at Kumharas. It's a really nice place to watch the sunset. We went out and went to kumharas. We walked round and round. We finally got to kumharas. We went on the pier. We looked at the sun as it set. It was so beautiful. We saw Jose Padilla playing at kumharas. Daniel got his autograph and picture taken with him. I bought a really mice t shirt. Mum got a necklace. We went back to the hotel and went to bed.

Thanks for reading my blog. Hope you enjoyed reading it today. Sorry for putting this on late. We had a Wi-Fi error. Thanks for reading.

Yours Amy

##

##  Day 34: A raver.

Posted on July 20, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Today we did the same as yesterday. Chilled at the pool. Me and lilley made a new friend called Kate. She is very tall. We played together by the pool all day long. Kate went a walk with her family so my and lilley went to the shops with lilleys dad. We bought sweets an underwater camera and friendship bracelets. We went back to the pool and played for a bit with the camera. We went to the kids club and made masks. I was a tiger. Raaaaaaaaaaaaarwe played there until we were allowed to go out. We went to have a shower and stuff and get ready to rave at cafe mambo.

We had dinner and started to walk over to the water taxis. We hopped on and waited to take us to the stop. We got off and walked to mambo. We finally got to mambo and got right to the front where afrojack was playing. Daniel thought that the pre dj was afrojack. A man came over to him saying that the man in front of him was afrojack. We waited for him to go in the dj box. He went in and the crowed went nuts. We waved Gulliver to him. He waved back to Gulliver. One of the camera people filmed Gulliver. It was funny. One of the mambo brothers with the long hair looks like Russell brand. He was spitting image of him. We started to go back and I bought a bracelet from a stall. It says Amy on it. I love it. We saw the mambo brother putting posters up for tomorrow tonight's gig. Its Pete tong. We are going to see him. We went to bar-me again. We gave one of the people a birthday bracelet. We played pool and talked about myfuntastictrip. We had a great night.

Thanks for reading my blogs today. I hope you enjoyed reading it. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 35: it's all gone Pete tong.

Posted on  July 21, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we played at the pool again. I played with Lilley and Katy. They are my best friends. I met a girl called Caitlin. She was cool. We played for hours in the pool. It was fun. We do handstands funny stuff under water and pushing people in. It was funny because Katy pushed me in but I moved so she ran right in the pool. We got out and went to get ready for dinner.

We had showers got dressed me and mum put our make up on and we went down for dinner before we walked round to mambo. We waited till it opened then went in. We got chips and bread and ice cream and all the other stuff mum had. We went out and started to walk to where the boat takes you over San Antonio. We got on it and got to the stop. We hurried to cafe mambo because we wanted to get to the front to see Pete tong and to see the sunset. We saw both.

We were right at the front where Pete tong was and we had Gulliver. We tried to catch Pete's  
attention but he was too busy. Luckily the people at the table in front of us put him right on the dj box and Pete still didn't notice. He was the A in MAMBO. I kept putting Gulliver in the people in front of us pictures. They laughed the whole time. When Gulliver was at the dj box he was on the big screen so everyone was cheering. It was a great night. We met Pete at the end and got a photo with him. We headed back.

I was wearing a top that said I love harry. Harry is my hamster but some men going to a night club stopped me and said, "Does that say I love harry?? He's harry. You love him. Hahahahaha can we get a photo ??" It was so funny I should have said back to him," you sir are a public nuisance" we went to bar me for a bit then went to bed.

Thanks for reading my blog today. I hope you enjoyed. Please like, share and comment saying what you think. Thanks again

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 36: late nights

Posted on  July 23, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we didn't do much. We played in the pool all day again. Me lilley and Kate played in the mini club together. It was fun. We played a memory game. Our team one. I had lilley, macie, sersha, jack and martyna. We were great at it. Kate went for a walk after that so me and Lilley played tennis. We were both rubbish at it. It was funny though, lilley was telling random jokes that didn't make sense. It was a draw. We went for dinner then to watch the sunset.

We went to kumharas to watch the sunset. It was beautiful. The clouds kind of ruined it though. I hope tomorrow is nicer. We went back to the hotel and I did some of the mini disco. It was funny. We went over to bar-me afterwards. It was fun. Lilley and Harry's family came. It was so cute. Harry just talked and talked to my big brother. We were up very very late. When we got back we had to go straight to bed.

Thanks for reading my blog today. Please like, share and comment saying what you think. Thanks again

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 37: Ibiza rocks

Posted on  July 23, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we slept in until lunch time so we didn't go in the pool. We went a walk to San Antonio instead. We went to the pacha shop then mambo then cafe del mar. Daniel got a sticker for his phone and I got 12 pencils. We went to try find a place to have food and decided to eat in Ibiza Rocks diner. We sat down and ordered for drinks. Then we finally ordered food. We got our food and me and Daniel got an Ibiza rocks plectrum. It's cool. We ate our food then go desert. Me and Daniel had proper coke floats. It's a big glass of coke with a huge blob of ice cream. It was too much for me to eat but I ate most of it. After dinner we went to kumharas. It was fun. I got body painting but not animal print. The woman said that it would stay for 5 days but it hasn't lasted one day. It was a good night. When we got back to the hotel a show was starting. I made a wee pal. His name is Bob and he is an iguana. He feels funny. We saw snakes and a turtle. It was great.

Thanks for reading my blog today. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 38: what time is it? Mambo time

Posted on  July 24, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today is my last blog from Ibiza. I'm sad to leave my friends but happy to be going on the rest of myfuntastictrip. Let me tell you about my last day.

Today we woke up early but I fell asleep and so did Daniel so our day begins at 9:30. We got up and went for breakfast. The food isn't that nice here. We went out to the sun beds and I went in the pool. Lilley and Kate didn't get back until after lunch so I played in the pool then read bits of my book. I finished my 9th a series of unfortunate events. I'm on the 10th book called, slippery slope. I wonder what will happen next. Lilley and Kate came back and we played in the pool together. Then it was time to go up.

We went upstairs got showers dressed and ready to go to cafe mambo. I got paint crayons and I wrote mambo on my arm. We went to have dinner then go. We got the boat over to the hippy markets then walked to cafe mambo. We got to the front of the barrier and watched the sunset. It was the best sunset ever. We waited for the djs to come on but I showed the pre DJ my arm and he loved it. Finally the DJs came on and they were all right. I didn't enjoy it that much. We heard a song that Pete tong put on and it was good. It was a Whitney Houston song called it's not right but its okay. I liked the song a lot. At the end we got photos with the DJs and met a mambo brother. He gave us free mambo wristbands. They were awesome. We walked back and went to the hotel after going to bar-me.

Thanks for reading my blog today. I hope you enjoyed reading it today. Please like, share and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 39: going to Venice

Posted on  July 24, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we were traveling to Venice. We woke up and got some breakfast before getting everything packed. We had some bread and that then got our bags ready. We went upstairs to get our bags and get ready to go. I had to say good-bye to Lilley, Kate and Caitlin. Oh and Macie and Harry. We got our stuff ready and checked out. We walked out the hotel and went to get the bus to the airport. We waited at the bus stop and then got on our bus. We sat down; well I sat down on the floor and waited for out stop. We got off the bus at the airport.

We went in and had to wait longer until the bag drop was open. We waited and then finally the bag drop opened. We put our bag in and went to security. A lot of people have asked if security is really my favorite bit at an airport and it really is. It's cool cause you have to take all your things off and then put them on again. The people who work there get to see all your things and get to see your phone and electronics. Cool. We went to find our gate then waited for it to open. We got some chips out of burger king and then waited. Me and Daniel went to check out the F*** me I'm famous lounge in the airport. It's cool. It's a bar with tons of merchandise in it. The chairs were star shaped. We had to come out because it was time to go on the plane. We lined up and got on the bus then the plane. I read my book the whole flight and I enjoyed it. We got off the plane and got our bag.

We got the big bag off the conniver. We went to the ticket desk and bought three return tickets for the next flight. We got on the bus and went to Venice. Venice is a wee island off of Italy. You can driver over to Venice using a long road leading from Italy to Venice. We got to Venice and go to our hotel.

Our hotel is called 'Casa Sant' Andrea' our hotel used to be Monastery. The monks used to live in it. It's a beautiful hotel modified in the 18th century. It's so old. It's so big and the wood and bricks which made it are the original things from the 16th century. We check in and went to our room. We put our things in and chilled for half an hour then went for dinner. We found a few places but settled for a pizzeria near the hotel. We sat down and got our food. We ate it then went to the hotel. We went in and that's it.

Thanks for reading my blog today. Please share, like and comment saying what you think thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 40: in Venice

Posted on  July 25, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today. We went a wander around Venice. We saw a bridge with thousands of locks on it. We also saw the rialto bridge. It was so big. We got ice cream and that later on. Daniel bought a pair of bright green puma high tops. They look ridicules. We saw gondolas and Daniel was going to take the hat off of one of the people and then put it back on. He's so random. I didn't get anything but that means more money for other days.

We went to a restaurant called Casa Mia. It was so yummy. We ate it all up then went to get some ice cream. We got a tub from a shop then went in a super market. Mum got juice and roll on deodorant for me and Daniel. Mum has some roll on deodorant so she just got it for us. We went back to the hotel and said we would have a ghost story night. I can't wait!!!

Thanks for reading my blog today. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again

Yours Amy

##

##  Day 41: islands

Posted on July 26, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we went to 3 different islands. They were called Burano, murano and torchello. They were cool. We went to the first one and saw a glass making factory. They made a glass horse. It was beautiful. It was a blue sparkly horse. They also made a glass cup. It had tons of different patterns on it. Mum wanted to buy some for our house but didn't want to because they would end up smashing. I bought a glass heart and a glass pendant with the letter A on it. They are beautiful. We moved on to our next island which was one that had one of the oldest churches in Venice.

We got to the second one. We went up a long path which took us to the church. It was beautiful. It had a kind of ruin outside it. We went in the church and lit a candle for someone who died. It was a well decorated church. We came out and started to head back. We got about half way through the path then mum check the time. We had a minute to get back to the boat. We started to run and then caught the boat. We got on then left to go to the last island.

We got to the 3rd one with multi coloured houses. It was cool. All the house were different colours. We went with the tour guide to a lace shop. It was cool. A little lady sitting hand making lace. It was beautiful. I liked her designs. We left the lace shop to see what else was there. I bought a fan because it was roasting here in Italy and we ran around. In the wee shop I got my fan it there was a wee old doggie. She was soo cute. I didn't get the chance to learn her name but she was the owner of the shops assistant. As you may know my brother isn't a fan of dogs but he actually clapped this dog. I couldn't believe my eyes. We went back to the boat. We met a boy and lady on the boat but we didn't think they got back on at the 3rd island. I think they might have gotten left behind. Sorry for the boy and lady that got left behind at the 3rd island. We got back and went for dinner.

We went to the same place for dinner as the first night. It was okay. We got back to the hotel and went to get the dirty clothes to go get the washing done. We got to the launderette and put the clothes in and waited for them to get washed. The finished getting washed then we put them in the dryer. Daniel saw an old man with a dog and he left the dog behind. He came back and got the dog though Daniel kept giving me a fright and then we went back to the hotel and that's it.

Thanks for reading my blog today. Please like, share and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 42: prisoners and walking.

Posted on  July 27, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we went on a treasure hunt. I won it. We went to S. Marco square and started our hunt. We went to a bookshop that was closed and then back to the square. We went to name all the fruit and veg in the carving and then try to stay on a marble surface without falling. We stood up against a large column and had to walk around it. We started it then fell off and the end. In the old days when they chopped heads off of people they used that to tell if they were to be beheaded. The column was out of place so that it could be used as it. If the prisoners fell of it they would be beheaded. They always fell off the thing so they always had to behead the person that was getting tested. I survived it. I failed epically one my dangerous quest but I'm one lucky person that got to keep their head. We went on the rest of the quest but half of the things we had to find were shut. There was one thing we had to find and it was a statue. I can't remember the real name for it but they called it the book sh***er. He was a writer. We was sitting on books. I won €10 for the quest and Daniel won €7,50. I also got ice cream because Daniel got it earlier on. We went back to the hotel for a rest.

We went for dinner after our rest. We went to a wee place and sat down. We ordered our food then got it. We ate up and got some ice cream afterwards. It was a good wee day in Venice.

Thanks for reading my blog today. I hope you enjoyed it. Please like, share and comment saying what you think. Thanks again. If you know of anything to do in Venice please let us know thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 43: a walk in Venice for the last time.

Posted on  July 28, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we went a walk in Venice for the last time. We went a wander and bought some more presents. I just have to buy one more then I think I'm done. I hope everyone like there presents. We walked about all day then went for a rest. We rested then went for some dinner. We went over a few bridges then found a place. It was lovely. I love pizza so much. We went back to the hotel and got our stuff all packed. It was a boring place in myfuntastictrip. I would like to let any people that would like to come to Venice know that it's quite a boring place to be in. There's not much to do here but hopefully Madrid and Paris are better.

Thanks for reading my blog today. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##

##   Day 44: football stars

Posted on  July 29, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we went to Madrid. We had to get up really early to get the bus then go to the airport. We got ready and put the last bits and bobs in and left the hotel. We went to the bus station and got on the bus. We went to the airport and put our bag in the bag drop. We went to the gate and waited until we were boarding. We waited for about 45 minutes the got on the plane. We took off and got some food then landed. It was kind of a short flight. We waited for an hour for the bag to come from the plane and then we went to get the metro to our hotel.

We got on the metro and then got to our hotel. It is awesome. We have a laptop in our room and a massage shower. The bathroom is big enough for me to do a cartwheel. We got a shower then went out to the bernabeu stadium. We went out the hotel and went to the stadium. Its way bigger than the san siro. We got our tickets and went inside. We saw trophies and that. I didn't like it. I got a tag saying Amy Campbell 29/7/2o12 myfuntastictrip. It's cool. We went out the stadium and went to the planetarium. It was soo cool.

The planetarium was small. We saw the stars at 8 at night in a big domed thing. We looked up and we could see all of the stars. During it I fell asleep on the chair and I got woken up near the end of it. We went out and went back to the hotel. We had a McDonalds for diner. I was yummy. Guess what we have for breakfast..... dunkin donuts. I can't wait.  
Thanks for reading my blog today. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again  
yours Amy

##   Day 45: tours and shops

Posted on  July 30, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we went on a tour with a tour guide named Paula. We walked to meet her and the rest of the tourists on the tour at the plaza mayor. We saw them and went to start the tour. We started in the plaza to learn that then horse statue was first built hollow. They had a horrible smell in the plaza and couldn't find where it was coming from. This was years ago. They looked and smelled but couldn't seem to find it. Then one day a bomb went off in the square and the horse statue was really damaged but inside they could see the corpses of sparrows that flew in the mouth and couldn't find their way out. We left the plaza and saw the oldest restaurant in the whole wide world. King Juan Carlos (JC for short) goes there sometimes. We went and learned about Spanish history. You might have heard of King Philipp. He had a son called Carlos and he had a son called Philipp and his son Philipp and his Philipp and his son Carlos. Keeping the names alive. Carlos the 2nd couldn't have children and he had a huge jaw which made him drool all the time. The crown got handed over to another family because Carlos couldn't have a child so nobody to pass the crown to. The stories were really interesting. There was one were a young girl whom was very wealthy and she fell in love with a very poor boy. Her family wouldn't let them be together. The girl was so upset that she went to the number 1 suicide spot in Madrid. She stood on the edge of the bridge and jumped off. She was wearing a huge dress and she floated to safety off the bridge. She survived and she got to be with the boy she loved and got married. We learned a lot of other things but I can't remember them all. We went back to the hotel then went back out.

We went to the shops. I got a purse, scarf and nail polish. I like my purchases today. Mummy bought a really nice t shirt. It is so cute. We went to get dinner then back to the hotel. That's all we did today.

Thanks for reading my blog today. Please like, share and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##   Day 46: it's little me off to Paris.

Posted on  July 31, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we went to Paris. We got to the airport at 4 in the morning and put the bag on the plane. We waited for security and went through. We waited for our plane to board. I was sleepy. I was ok after a lollipop. We went on the plane and waited to take off. I felt much better after a drink and a sleep. We got Paris. We got off the plane and went to get a taxi. We got to our hotel and check in.

We went to our room and put our bags in. We chilled for a while and fell asleep. We slept and slept then woke up. We watched the Olympics and then went out. We walked down the street and saw lots of sun beds. We went in a cinema. We bought tickets for later on to see Ice Age 4. We walked back to the hotel and rested for a bit longer until it was cinema time. We fell asleep again and then left.

We went down the street and went passed the river Seine. Our hotel is right next to it. We walked right down and got to the cinema. We went to our theatre and sat down for the movie. We watched it with a few other people in English with French subtitle. It was awesome. I won't tell you anything about it because it will ruin it. It was very funny that's all I'm saying. We went to McDonalds and had dinner.

Thanks for reading my blog today. I hope you enjoyed it. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

##   Day 48: Disneyland Paris.

Posted on  August 3, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello,

Today we went to Disney land. It was good. We went on lots of rides. We went in and went on toy story one first. It was an hour wait for a little kids ride. I didn't like it. We came out and went on Space Mountain 2 and it was the worst ride ever. I hated it. It was too fast. We went on pirates of the Caribbean then the big thunder. That was awesome. We went into a haunted house after that and we saw that the big thunder broke and people got stuck on it. After the haunted house we went for some dinner. We had pizza in adventure land and then I bought 2 T-shirts, Pluto toy, Mickey Mouse shopping bag, note book and piggy bank. We went in a simulator thing after dinner and the man next to us got told not to film and the woman said it and the speaker said it and he was filming it. We had to stop the thing and he got taken away. He was a pain. We got out at the end and went to watch the parade. It was good. I got up on a lamppost so I could see better. It was a funtastic day for myfuntastictrip.

Thanks for reading my blog today. Please like, share and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

 Day 47: tours and paintings.

Posted on  August 3, 2012 by myfuntastictrip

Hello again,

Today we went on a tour. We went to Sant Michel's square to meet our tour guide and all the other people on the tour. We got to Saint Michel's square and started the tour. We went to the narrowest street in Paris and the Notre Dame. It is so beautiful. It has tons of glass stain windows and tons of statues of people on it. We went to the Louvre, the royal gardens, bridges and the Eiffel tower. We went to the Louvre after the tour.

We saw the Mona Lisa. She was smiling. People say she looks sad. She was smiling a tiny smile. We went to the hotel and had a rest then went for dinner.

Thanks for reading my blog today. Please share, like and comment saying what you think. Thanks again.

Yours Amy

