 
My God, My Friend

A Relationship with Jesus

Kerry-Ann Barrett

Smashwords Edition

Copyright 2012, 2013

Smashwords Edition,

License Notes.

Thank you for purchasing this eBook. No portion of this ebook may be reproduced or copied without prior approval from the author. If you enjoyed this book, please return to Smashwords.com to discover other works by this author. Thank you for your support.

Cover Design by Khadine Dennis

khadined.dennis@gmail.com

Books written by Kerry-Ann Barrett can be obtained either through the author's official website:

KerrykayPublications.com

or through select, online book retailers.

To my faithful readers. Your encouragement and motivation inspires me to write and be all that I can in God! God bless you all!

# Chapter 1: My God, My Friend

# _______________________

Did you know that God wants more than your obedience and seeks a relationship with you? Just like he did with Adam, He wants to do with all of us. Yet we live our lives running from obeying and communing with Him, seeking to fill the God void with all manner of things. We say things like, "I'm too young" or "I'm not ready yet, I need to experience the world." We might even say, "I have to fix my life first." These precursors sometimes never get done and so we live a life of separation from God our King.

When Adam disobeyed, he was enlighten and hid himself when God came to commune with him. Sin disrupted their relationship. It is a similar case with us today; a life in sin will disrupt having an intimate relationship with God. We must also understand that we are not able to fix our sin problem by ourselves. Adam tried doing this when he took fig leaves to try and cover his nakedness. This was not good enough. And so God killed an innocent animal and made Adam and his wife coats (Gen. 3:7-21). That's how far God went to maintain a relationship with Adam. In like manner, He has done the same for us. Jesus dying on the cross creates our way back to a relationship with God. We can try all there is to offer in the world, but until we surrender to Jesus, our God void will always be an empty space.

I spent the first twenty years of my life knowing that there is a God but for many reasons didn't accept Him. I knew about the Ten Commandments that He gave to Moses, and that I had to live a certain way to be a Christian. It's just that, it was so hard to give my life to Him then. It just seemed like church was a bunch of rules that took every ounce of enjoyment out of life.

I saw God as this supreme, invisible being up in the sky somewhere or everywhere. I had no connection to Him. While I empathized with Jesus dying on the cross, I didn't get the connection of what that meant for me, that the purpose of that cross was to build a bridge so that I could be close to Him. So it was, I couldn't accept what I couldn't understand.

I lived my life searching for joy and happiness, a pursuit we all take on at different times. I never thought to look to God for that. The plan was find it, enjoy it and then when life was settled, I would commit to the Lord.

I looked in the club and parties, but that wasn't as fulfilling as I thought it would be. I looked to achieving greatness in my studies and career path, though I did well and excelled it didn't fill the gap. I lived to make my family proud and they were but it did little or nothing for me. I tried filling this void by pursuing relationships but I think the void extended. Nothing worked, at least not for long.

Finally, the misery of failure saw me crawling back to the Saviour. But when I went to Him - the joy I felt was unspeakable. As it is written in 1 Peter 1:8-9 "yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory: Receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls." With this joy, it wasn't hard to give 'the rules' a try; and it so happened that trying these 'rules' proved to be the most liberating experience I ever had.

God not only became my Master (as I thought of Him because of 'the rules') but He became my friend and guide to comfort me in my most troubling times. For many of us, our main struggle in coming to Christ was that 'the rules' seemed too much and we thought that we would sooner or later break them. However, as I developed a relationship with Him, I saw that He was and is there to give me strength when I am weak and that I overcome the ways of the world by His power.

**He Doesn't Just want to Save, He wants a Relationship  
** As I grew in Christ, I learnt that I could talk to the invisible God. He wasn't just a far-away God anymore, but He was always with me. He ensured that my needs were met way beyond my expectations. He was really there for me when others couldn't even see my struggles. Similar to how a man would for his wife, Jesus went and goes all out for me. Jesus proved His supremacy by giving of His life that I could find joy.

In our society today, it would be as if a man was trying to woo a woman that wasn't even paying him any attention. So he killed himself to get it. When she sees his ultimate sacrifice, she then says 'this man really loved me' at which point it is too late because he is already dead. She might out of gratitude or pity attend his funeral and that would be the end of it.

However, with Jesus the mighty God, he rose from the dead to start a courtship with me. This really makes a girl feel special. The God that created the universe has done all of this for me. In this process we are building a relationship so that I can know His ways to eventually reign with Him. This requires me learning to love, respect and please Him, a similar process to what Ester went through to become queen.

Loving Jesus is not any different from loving one's spouse. History has shown the endless sacrifices people make because of the love they have for their spouses. It's as simple as this, I plan to get married one day, since I will have to make certain sacrifices for my marriage to work, honouring God might be the best proving ground. When I looked at it like that, it was as if the 'rules' were not a big deal any more. This would be the compromise I would make to make my relationship work, all because I love Him. The word of God says in John 14:15 "If ye love me, keep my commandments." What I found was the more I became obedient to God's commands, the easier it became to follow Him. It's a work in progress.

While I looked at my relationship with God through a marriage union, it is not limited to that. Many discovered their relationship with Him in setups of: father to child, teacher to pupil, siblings, best friends and so on. So if you didn't relate to God how I did, it's not that you didn't get it. He just reaches us in different ways.

He has proven that He stands by His word, so I must stand beside Him as we must have oneness in what we portray. This relationship is never one sided, He filled my void through His ultimate sacrifice; nothing that I will ever do can repay what He did for me. When I obey Him, it shows by gratitude and pleases Him well. If I'm happy and He's happy how joyful the fellowship.

As our relationship with God grows, we take on more and more of His attributes. The closer we get, the more authority we are also given. The power of God is not limited and he liberally gives it to those close to Him. The power I speak of is not only in regards to the laying on of hands, healing the sick, etc. But to live triumphantly over sin and its snares as we have a responsibility to live Godly lives.

Most of us struggle as Christians because of sin. Whenever we fracture His commands, we sin. God can't look at sin, as such, it hinders our relationship. Remember what happen to Adam and Eve in the garden? We must also understand that when we sin it doesn't mean it's all over (like most marriages today where people only stay together until one party does a wrong). It means that we have to work it out through communication and fitting actions.

A key thing to note is that God already knows us, inside and out. To have a successful relationship with God we need to get to know Him. We need to feed ourselves with the word of God, mediating on it to build our spiritual muscle. By doing this we get to understand the things and mysteries of God. We fast to ensure that we clear the channels that block us from God so that when we pray, we have clear passages of communication. If we are in constant communication with God, we will know His will and we will please Him who has given us that joyful gift that no one has ever given. This is the relationship that fulfills all relationships. We are granted unmerited favours and powers because of our Beloved, but sometimes because we stray due to seemingly small things our love and power might not be manifested.

The Hindered Relationship

When we read the Bible, we are given various promises that are very powerful in nature, but in our lives we sometimes seem to fall far below who God says we are. If we however, stop and evaluate our walk, we will find that we are lacking in the word or in prayer and fasting, which are key factors to our relationship with God. We often like taking courage from great Bible characters and we equate our situations to theirs. We however, most times forget to put in the effort that they did.

If we study the scriptures carefully we see that these individuals lived prayerful lives and dedicated time for fasting and seeking the Lord. Born-again Christians were baptized in power when they received the Holy Ghost. All this power is locked up inside of us. Yet many of us walk around confused not knowing where to go. Always seeking someone else who has dedicated time to the Lord to give us 'a word' when God wants to speak to us directly. He wants a relationship with us. Until we get beyond ourselves and truly seek the Lord we will be stuck in an unfulfilled life.

Every Christian must include prayer and fasting in their life to maintain their relationship with God. It's most times easy to just pray and not fast. However, fasting is needed to weaken our flesh that the Spirit can prevail. We need to get rid of the blockages that the Word of God can truly saturate us.

Take this simple analogy: Fasting and praying is likening unto a bucket of fried chicken. Fasting is the Container and Prayer is the Content (Chicken). Both the bucket and chicken have separate processes and when put together properly makes the consumer very happy. Likewise fasting and praying for the believer. Of special note is also the fact that individuals will purchase a bucket of chicken even if there are no buckets (containers) as it is the content that they really want. The purpose was not to buy the bucket but to fill the hunger or need for food. The bucket's (container's) purpose is to facilitate and make transfer of the chicken (content) effective. Hence, it makes no sense to fast without praying. That would just be not eating or a dietary plan. It is delivering an empty container to God. But when prayer is included in fasting the communication channel opens clearly and there is effective transfer.

This project focuses on some possible things that can hinder our relationship with God and how we should deal with them. It starts out with an introspection of one's self and the fitting actions that should follow. It then looks at seeing where God wants us to be and who He says we are. It ends with dealing with the Gifts of the Spirit and why the manifestations are not as evident as in the early church.

In writing this material, I had to do an introspection of myself as a Christian and committing to making the necessary changes where I fell short. For me it was truly a go back to the cross experience that I really needed to have. A renewed spirit and lease on life. Joy and peace that I thought I could have only experienced when initially saved. I was made aware of my many distractions and the things I was lacking in my Christian walk to be the woman that Jesus wants me to be.

Intimidation took her flight as I truly accepted that fear was not of God. This was indeed a real introspection of who I was. By profession I am a Manager of Quality Assurance. I can really say that the Holy Ghost gave me a dosage of my own medicine. Quality Assurance verifies stated policies, regulations and procedures against what was actually done to see if they are identical. Where discrepancies are found a Non-Conformity report is issued that requires a response within a stated period and a date when conformity will be effective so another check can be made to verify the update.

I got a few non-conformity reports. So now I have work to do. My prayer is that when you are reading through the material, that you truly take the time out to pray and fast, and have God reveal to you as He did with me. There are many things that may not be right in our walk that we most times miss without a deep introspection. I can testify to that, some of the things I found about myself I wouldn't have thought about, but I give God the glory for great things He has done.

# Chapter 2: Working Out The Kinks

# _______________________

Working Out the Kinks

" _The little foxes, that spoil the vines: for our vines have tender grapes."_ _Song of Solomon 2:14_

Relationship Nugget:

In any relationship there are many potential things that may cause strain. These include but are not limited to mistrust and lack of communication. As Christians, we must ensure that in our relationship with God there is trust and a clear communication channel. God boasted of Job (Job1:8; 2:3)—He could trust Job because he was a faithful servant and a good man. Job also trusted God despite what was happening to him. Can God trust you? Do you trust Him? God communed with Adam in the cool of the day (Gen.3:8). When do you commune with him?

In the past, I have heard the saying that, "It's not the big things that ruin the relationship. It's a bunch of little things." Often enough in our relationship with God, we are very careful not to commit offences as listed in the Ten Commandments. I will call these 'the big things.' There are however many other things that plague us which most times go unnoticed. We will review some of these in this chapter.

In my Christian walk, I had to face two kinks over and over again. These are doubt and fear. I had to face them head on in learning how to trust God.

I remember being in United States and facing the prospects of going back to school to do my Master's degree and not having enough saved. I knew in my heart that the Lord was telling me to depend solely on Him, but when I crunched the numbers it just didn't make sense. I remember being in church one night and hearing someone testify of how they prayed and held up their bill to God and how He came through for them. Being in a desperate situation I said to myself, "I'm going to try that."

The next day I went to school to pick up the cost sheet so that I could start the financial paperwork. Upon receiving and reviewing the sheet, it was evident that I needed to prove approximately ten times what I had in the bank. My pay then could only cover the bills I already had. There was no way I would come up with that money. How would I pay my rent, eat and get around? I was single and I lived by myself. Have you ever been in a position where you made your mind up to stand in faith and then all of a sudden you are slapped in the face with the impossibility of reality? And immediately hopelessness sweeps you off your feet? That's what happened to me when I picked up the cost sheet. I went home that day and started packing my bags to go back to Jamaica. I did the math and I didn't want to start school spending the little that I had, drop out of school when the funds were finished; and then end up going home with nothing.

While I was packing the tears started flowing. Then, in the midst of crying, I remembered the testimony I heard at church. I then took out the cost sheet and held it up to my window. It was not a long prayer. All I said was, "Jesus if You want me to stay here, You have to make the way." After that I started unpacking my bags. My hope was that my phone would just ring and all my worries would be over. It could have, but it didn't happen that way.

About a week later Vacation Bible School (VBS) would begin at church and there weren't enough volunteer teachers to cover it. I was moved to do it but thought about the fact that I would lose the income for that week. After the constant annoyance of my conscience, I compromised and missed the first two days and went to cover the three remaining days. On the last day of VBS, I received a telephone call from the degree program manager advising me that I would be awarded a scholarship. This was a third of my tuition. The following Monday when I went in to proceed with the financial documentation process, a senior school official saw me and inquired if I was coming back to the College to do my Masters and I said yes. I had worked with him in the past in successfully resolving two issues that affected the institution. He then said out of the blue, "That means you will need a job." I excitedly said yes. He then stated, "I really don't know what you will be doing. I don't really need additional staff, but I am going to hire you." The end of it was I got the job and it covered the balance. I went into that job and gave it all I had, finding areas that needed to be improved and implementing the same. With all of this I did not neglect my duties at church- I remained Secretary of Sunday School and Greeter and was consistent in doing the same. I finished my program and graduated with a 4.0 GPA. The best part was that I did it debt free. If I did it you can too. You don't have to sacrifice the things of God to access success. I am a testimony of that.

I garnered so much from this experience. God showed me that He was and is my Source. I might not see the way, but He has one mapped out for me. If He says He is going to provide, then I can take it to the bank. I really believe that if I had completed the five days of VBS giving up all income for that week I would have somehow received all my tuition paid without working for it. When I consider it, I almost gave up thousands for hundreds. This is what happens to us when our faith is not where it should be and because of fear of our situation we doubt God. Let us not short change God, by seeing to believe. Trust Him!

I ask you to pray the Lord as you embark on an introspection of yourself, for Him to help you to accept what He reveals to you: To help you change where change is needed that you may come up higher in Him, doing the things that He wants you to do. Let it not just stop there, but that you will be consistent in doing the same.

" _Search me, O God, and know my heart: try me, and know my thoughts: And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting." Ps. 139:23-24_

It's always good to search ourselves when we go before God. Sometimes in our walk we feel that everything is alright, when the truth of the matter is- that this is sometimes far from the truth. We might not be committing the so-called "capital sins" (fornication, murder, etc) but we harbor un-forgiveness, doubt, fear and such the like in our hearts. It is easy to identify sin that is of a physical nature, but the heart matters are most times neglected.

The following are questions to consider for introspection and mediation:

Am I guilty of fulfilling "the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life?"(1Jn2:16)

Am I manifesting the works of the flesh according to Galatians 5:19-21? "Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these; Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like: of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God."

Do I love God above all and love my neighbour as myself?

Do I really believe what God says?

These questions will help you evaluate areas that you need to work on in your relationship with God. The following are various examples in the Bible of different issues that caused individuals to miss the move of God or to be delayed in carrying out His mandate.

Doubt:

Thomas doubted that Jesus had risen from the dead despite the fact that everything that Jesus told them would happen did. "But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came. The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the LORD. But he said unto them, Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. And after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas with them: then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you. Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side: and be not faithless, but believing. And Thomas answered and said unto him, My LORD and my God. Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed." Jn 20:24-29

Abraham and Sarah doubted God about receiving a son. "Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and said in his heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is an hundred years old? and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear?" (Gen. 17:17) Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also? (Gen.18:12)

Fear

Peter denied Christ three times. "And as Peter was beneath in the palace, there cometh one of the maids of the high priest: And when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked upon him, and said, And thou also wast with Jesus of Nazareth. But he denied, saying, I know not, neither understand I what thou sayest. And he went out into the porch; and the cock crew. And a maid saw him again, and began to say to them that stood by, This is one of them. And he denied it again. And a little after, they that stood by said again to Peter, Surely thou art one of them: for thou art a Galilaean, and thy speech agreeth thereto. But he began to curse and to swear, saying, I know not this man of whom ye speak. And the second time the cock crew. And Peter called to mind the word that Jesus said unto him, Before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. And when he thought thereon, he wept." (Mark 14:66-72)

Saul disobeyed God because he feared the people. "For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of the LORD, he hath also rejected thee from being king. And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned: for I have transgressed the commandment of the LORD, and thy words: because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice. Now therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship the LORD."(1 Sam. 15:23-25)

Pride

Naaman did not want to dip in the Jordon because he thought it was beneath him. "So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariot, and stood at the door of the house of Elisha. And Elisha sent a messenger unto him, saying, Go and wash in Jordan seven times, and thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean. But Naaman was wroth, and went away, and said, Behold, I thought, He will surely come out to me, and stand, and call on the name of the LORD his God, and strike his hand over the place, and recover the leper. Are not Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? may I not wash in them, and be clean? So he turned and went away in a rage. And his servants came near, and spake unto him, and said, My father, if the prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldest thou not have done it? how much rather then, when he saith to thee, Wash, and be clean? Then went he down, and dipped himself seven times in Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God: and his flesh came again like unto the flesh of a little child, and he was clean." (2 Kings 5:11-14)

Pride can destroy one's prayer life. "Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted."( Luke 18:10-14)

When these things are present in our walk, then we need to work on making our relationship with God stronger. Spend time to know God. If we truly know HIM, we will not be bothered my many of these little foxes. Did not Abraham become known for his faith even though he doubted? Isn't Peter known for the great things he has done for Christ and His name, yet he denied Him prior? After Naaman walked away with pride to not do what the prophet said, when he repented and dipped in the Jordon was he not healed? Likewise there is hope for us.

When I read the account of Abraham and Sarah and how they laughed, I'm reminded of doing the same thing a number of times. One incident was at work where a key senior position was vacant. The thought crossed my mind that I might get it but didn't see how that would happen as on paper I did not qualify. The position would have to also be approved by an external official that seemed to have a grudge with our firm. As such, I took the thought out of my head. "Impossible!" I thought.

One night I went to bed, and I heard the voice of the Lord say the position as clear as day. I laughed because it seemed impossible but later caught up with myself remembering different times that God came through for me. I agreed with what God said, because if He said it, it has to happen. A few weeks later, I had a meeting with the same external official mentioned above. He was recommending that I take the job. I figured that he had a motive for his benefit, but rejoiced even more because God did what He said. I got the job and God stayed with me on that job every step of the way. Directing me as to what to say and what to do; teaching me in a few months what others took years to learn. Isn't God awesome? That is the Friend that He is, He will never set you up to leave you stranded.

# Chapter 3: Repenting and Seeking Deliverance

# _______________________

Relationship Nugget:

In a relationship, when we come to the realization that we have not been doing something right, if we want the relationship to work we need to work on fixing or repairing the same. Similarly, as Christians we must repent and seek God's forgiveness and deliverance when we fall short. When David took his neighbor's wife and the prophet came to him- he repented and sought to repair his relationship with God. Paul was a known persecutor of the early church. He however, became a mighty apostle for the same after his encounter on the road to Damascus (Acts 9:3-8). When we come to the realization of our sins, we must likewise repent and seek deliverance to ensure that our relationship with God stays intact.

Repenting and Seeking Deliverance:

After we have completed introspection of ourselves, we need to repent in areas of our Christian walk that are found to be deficient. David penned it well in Psalm 51.

David's posture was that of acknowledging where he went wrong and asking God to cleanse him from his sin. We make a big mistake when we try to cover up our sins as Adam did in the garden. God is all-knowing. We can't hide anything from Him. It then makes sense to confess and seek His help in overcoming our weaknesses. David went further to ask the Lord to return joy unto Him. A life of sin is a joyless life. For joy to be felt God has to be in it and sin separates us from God. David also made promises to God to teach transgressors and praise God. At the end of it all, this is our true purpose in life. To praise our God and to teach others about who God is and how to honor Him (Mt.28:19).

We Have An Advocate

" _My little children, these things write I unto you, that ye sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous: And he is the propitiation for our sins: and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. And hereby we do know that we know him, if we keep his commandments."_ (1 John 2:1-3)

When we sin "Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need."(Heb.4:16) When we are broken God will fix us. "For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life." (Rom.5:10) Let us therefore live for God when He forgives us and continue in His commands.

Forgiveness

In seeking God's forgiveness we need to truly understand what it is we are asking and what is expected of us. Forgiveness is not one-sided. If we want to be forgiven we must also forgive.

True forgiveness can only happen when we remain grounded in Christ. It helps us to remain pure even when we are locked up in a horrible situation. We can with no strings attached do good to those individuals who have harmed us. Take the turnip as an example; Its natural colour is white. However, the portions which are accessed by sunlight receive a colour (purple, green), the grounded exterior remains unchanged. Similarly when we are grounded in Christ, we won't be left open to the elements. Many times we can look on an individual's face and can tell that something is wrong. Circumstances will dictate to us our state of being. But those who are fashioned in His soil, their circumstances won't change them. They will love despite and that is the power of true forgiveness. "Bless them that curse you, and pray for them which despitefully use you."(Luke 6:28) We can't do this unless we forgive. We need to forgive if we want to be forgiven. "And forgive us our sins; for we also forgive **every one** that is indebted to us." (Luke 11:4)

We need to forgive everyone. Not just the person who is of close relation to us, but also that person that cuts us off in the line or that individual who snatched our pocket book. We often overlook forgiving those that we don't normally come in contact with, but we must also forgive them. Jesus by example forgave that we should also forgive. "Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do."(Luke 23:34) Jesus was praying for those who were crucifying HIM. I'm so glad God is not like man, for maybe if it were me being crucified; my words wouldn't be as kind.

Jesus looked beyond that and became our atoning lamb. Thank You Jesus! "Jesus knew what His sacrifice on Calvary would accomplish. That is why before He died, he uttered, "It is finished" (John 19:30). After Jesus shed His blood on Calvary, there was no further need for a high priest to perform the rituals of the Day of Atonement, for Jesus Christ completed it all." (Church Alive Series spring 2009)

" _Now when these things were thus ordained, the priests went always into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God. But into the second went the high priest alone once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself, and for the errors of the people: The Holy Ghost this signifying, that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest, while as the first tabernacle was yet standing: Which was a figure for the time then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices, that could not make him that did the service perfect, as pertaining to the conscience; Which stood only in meats and drinks, and divers washings, and carnal ordinances, imposed on them until the time of reformation. But Christ being come an high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building; Neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. For if the blood of bulls and of goats, and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling the unclean, sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh: How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? And for this cause he is the mediator of the new testament, that by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance."_ (Hebrews 9:6-15)

I understand why David wanted God to return His joy. When my sin slate was wiped clean (when I got saved); the joy I felt could not be compared with anything else. I didn't want to go to school, I didn't want to eat. I just wanted to spend time with the Lord. It was as if nothing could affect me.

What sin does is steals our joy. You might not be stealing, lying, guilty of idol worshiping, or any other sin that falls in the bracket of the ten commandments; but you might be guilty of the ones that others don't easily notice. The sins of the heart can truly destroy the life of a Christian.

# Chapter 4: Who Does God Say I Am?

# _______________________

Relationship Nugget:

For a relationship to be successful, both parties need to know where they stand. When a woman knows that she is loved unconditionally by her husband. She will most times make him feel like he is king of her world. The Church is the bride of Christ, who has already proven His love by dying for us. But where does He stand in our lives? Is He the King of our world? The church in Ephesus was rebuked for forgetting their first love (Re.2:4). Have we forgotten Him? Are our jobs, families and other commitments before our relationship with God? Are we so complacent with church activities that we forget to truly honour Him?

Where should I be?

As born again Christians we should be in a place where we are bearing the fruit of the Spirit. If we have His Spirit then we must be bearing the fruit. Having the fruit of the Spirit ensures that we are fully armed for spiritual warfare. The word of God declares:

"But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, Meekness, temperance: against such there is no law." All great things to have I must say.

The questions to then ask are:

Do I always have and operate in love?

Do I have and spread joy?

Do I have peace? Am I peaceful?

Am I patient in suffering?

Am I gentle?

Do I exhibit goodness?

Am I faithful?

Am I humble?

Do I demonstrate self-control?

Love is very essential to our walk in Christ because God is Love. God has also given us the Spirit of Love. The bible in 1John 4: 7-21 states the following:

" _Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love. In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through him. Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. Hereby know we that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he hath given us of his Spirit. And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Saviour of the world. Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God. And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. God is love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him. Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment: because as he is, so are we in this world. There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear: because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. We love him, because he first loved us. If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar: for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this commandment have we from him, That he who loveth God love his brother also."_

From reading this text, we are instructed to love one another. We can't love God who we don't see and hate our brother that we see every day. It also speaks to us not living in fear. Fear has torment and it steals our joy and peace. If you don't have peace, then it is hard to be patient. If you are impatient chances are you are not very gentle. So here we see that the love factor has an effect on the other attributes of the fruit of the spirit. This is because everything is perfected in love. "Perfect love casteth out fear: because fear hath torment." If we have fears in our lives we know right there and then that we are missing other elements of the fruit of the Spirit. It leads me to then state that Christians will always have room for improvement. We should carry out regular inventories of the fruit we bring forth. If we see where we have fallen short, we need to pray that we stir-up the gift that God has given us. "Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind." (2Tim.1:6-7)

The word also declares, "But whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God perfected: hereby know we that we are in him."( 1 John 2:5) You can't truly love God and be in sin. You must do His commandments. From all the scriptures we have read about love we can conclude these three things:

If we say that we love God we must love others

There is no fear in perfect love

Our love is perfected when we follow God's words and commandments.

These three points will evaluate our true love position.

As believers we are not only expected to manifest in fruit of the Spirit but also through spiritual gifts minister to those in need and win souls to the kingdom of God. "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned. And these signs shall follow them that believe; In my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; They shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover." (Mark 16:16-17)

**Concerning Spiritual Gifts:**

1 Corinthians 12: 4-13; 27-31

" _Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit. And there are differences of administrations, but the same Lord. And there are diversities of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all. But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit withal. For to one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom; to another the word of knowledge by the same Spirit; To another faith by the same Spirit; to another the gifts of healing by the same Spirit; To another the working of miracles; to another prophecy; to another discerning of spirits; to another divers kinds of tongues; to another the interpretation of tongues: But all these worketh that one and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will. For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one body: so also is Christ. For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; and have been all made to drink into one Spirit.....Now ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular. And God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, diversities of tongues. Are all apostles? are all prophets? are all teachers? are all workers of miracles? Have all the gifts of healing? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret? But covet earnestly the best gifts: and yet shew I unto you a more excellent way."_

Every Christian should fall in a category above. God didn't save any of us to be spectators. When God saves us He equips us to aid in the saving of souls. If you evaluate your walk and you have not manifested any of what was stated in the above text, then something is wrong. In saying this I am not referring to a new convert, "As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby."( 1Pe.2:2) This is referring to the seasoned Christian, "Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing. For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again which be the first principles of the oracles of God; and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong meat. For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness: for he is a babe." (Heb.5:11-13). When we get grounded in God's Love and have accepted what He has given us as gifts, we will manifest supernaturally.

Mediate on these questions:

What gifts have I manifested since I believed?

Am I actively using these to win souls for the Kingdom or do they only benefit me?

How many souls have I assisted into the Kingdom since I believed?

Am I fearful to use my gifts?

If your answer to question one is no, then you need to spend time seeking the Lord and consecrating yourself. The Lord will reveal Himself to you in no uncertain term.

Nothing is wrong if your gifts assist you in your daily life, but we must be cognizant of the fact that we need to be ministering agents of Christ.

If you haven't won over anyone, then you need to start working now. Once you have life it is not too late. Learn the scriptures, walk with a track and be prepared to at anytime give someone a word! It is alarming to note that many individuals in church don't evangelize. In fact, the people who are around them sometimes don't know that they are Christians. That is not right. We are the salt of the earth; a city set upon a hill cannot be hid.

If fear is your issue then we have to deal with the love factor as was discussed earlier. The fruit of the Spirit is the foundation that is built upon for supernatural manifestation.

The word of God declares that we have so much power, yet most times we feel so defeated. Our situations zap all our strength (This will be expounded in a later chapter). We have to be mindful that this is the purpose of all that the enemy does. His focus is to get us to a point where he can have his way. He waits until we are weakest and then appeals to our needs. Just like he tried to tempt Jesus:

" _Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward an hungred. And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread. But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God."_ John 4:1-4

Jesus could have easily command bread into being, but He doesn't take instructions from the devil. That is his aim. He wants to tell us what to do. Be cognizant of this, it will always be contrary to what God wants of you. We must live by the word of God.

We ask the question, why we are not experiencing the power of the early church in our everyday life? "Lord I have prayed and I have believed, my faith was more than a mustard seed, but nothing happened. To top it off, the situation or condition prayed for got worse and then I began to waver." This is because we lack power. Jesus gave us power so why do we lack?

" _And, behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you: but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on high. And he led them out as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them. And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he was parted from them, and carried up into heaven. And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy: And were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen."_ Luke 24:49-53

" _And, being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which, saith he, ye have heard of me. For John truly baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence. When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons, which the Father hath put in his own power. But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth._ Acts1:4-8

" _And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting. And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance._ Acts 2: 1-4

" _And they were all amazed, and were in doubt, saying one to another, What meaneth this? Others mocking said, These men are full of new wine. But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and said unto them, Ye men of Judaea, and all ye that dwell at Jerusalem, be this known unto you, and hearken to my words: For these are not drunken, as ye suppose, seeing it is but the third hour of the day. But this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel; And it shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour out of my Spirit upon all flesh: and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams: And on my servants and on my handmaidens I will pour out in those days of my Spirit; and they shall prophesy:_ Acts 2:12-18

_And fear came upon every soul: and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles_. Acts 2:43

I love how the Amplified Bible puts it: "But you shall receive power (ability, efficiency, and might) when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be My witnesses in Jerusalem and all Judea and Samaria and to the ends (the very bounds) of the earth." (Acts 1:8)

Do you know that you can be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, and have received the baptism of the Holy Ghost, and not exhibit this power? This is because the enemy knows the secret to our strength. Just as Delilah got close to Samson, found out the source of his strength and then destroyed it, we are faced with the same challenge today. You might say, "I am not close to the devil", well, he got close to you, mostly through your situations and life struggles. Every other thing that you focus your energy on subtracts from the glory you give to God. It is with the mind that you serve Christ and if your mind is filled with other things, there is no space for Him. When we worry we exercise unfaithfulness and faith is essential to our Christian walk. Worrying says that the all powerful God is not in control. Therefore we fear. Where there is fear there is a lack of love. By now, it should be evident that the basic fruit of the Spirit is lacking hence power cannot be manifested. This is by no means saying that everyone that manifests supernaturally is living right in the sight of God. It is just saying that we are many times hindered because faith is absent and hence we fear and or doubt, etc.

We are many times led by how we feel and not what God says. We make decisions based on the situation and are disobedient in doing what God says we are to do. Saul was anointed king by God. He was chosen. He went out and fought the enemy with God and he was victorious. But there came a time after his fame was evident that the people that Saul governed, told him to do contrary to what God said. He did it because he feared the people. As a result of this, he lost his kingship. Many times God places us in strategic positions and blesses us there. However, when we lose sight of how we got there, we become failures. Saul surrendered to one situation and lost everything. How many situations have you surrendered to? How many times have you not carried out what the Lord has specifically told you to do? Our situations are our Delilahs.

Today we need to be so thankful for grace. Even though we fell short, messed up and placed God in the back seat of our lives, He still grants us favor. Although we lost our power it can be replenished by the ever powerful God as Samson regained his hair and destroyed the enemy. We need to get things in the right perspective. Our education, occupations, spouses, children, houses, cars and all material gain are not our purpose on Earth. As such they are not to be our focal point, God is our center. St Matthew 6:33 states: "But **seek** ( aim at and strive after) **first** of all His kingdom and His righteousness ( His way of doing and being right), and then all these things taken together will be given you besides." (Amplified)

When we go about worrying and trying to fix our problems all by ourselves, we are doing the opposite of what God says. We are not only disobedient but we miss the move of God because our focus is elsewhere.

Testimony to Encourage:

The Lord openly made some promises to me. God gave me the confirmation and specific instructions through a divine word of wisdom and in the midst of everything when my faith was high my situation was now compelling me to be rational and do things another way. I did what Saul did, I surrendered to voices not of God. Similarly, everything fell apart. My faith was destroyed because of disobedience and the power I felt prior was seemingly gone. But just as Samson's hair grew back, so did my strength. Every day a little more. Thank God for a grace that restores.

I have learnt that even though the situation is overwhelming and I just want to eradicate it, I might just make it worst when I follow my own understanding. Even though I have to deal with individuals asking me if what was promised has happened, I have to find a way to not be discouraged or deterred in faith. I have found that when I focus on what God says rather than my emotions, I am reassured as I know God is bringing me out.

This time I will praise God. I will not lose my power or any sleep. If God says it I don't have to worry about it. So like the horse that is ready to run in a race, my blinders are on and my eyes are set on the finish line because I know the end of the thing. I can shout now, because I am already a victor.

# Chapter 5: The Power of the Believer

# _______________________

Relationship Nugget: W _e most times live defeated lives because we might have done things the wrong way, based on what we think is right. The story of how Ishmael and Isaac were born is a perfect example. God wanted the promised seed to come from Abraham and Sarah, but they became rational and tried to help God fulfill the promise by offering Hagar the handmaid to Abraham. In the end the child of that union, Ishmael had to be sent away because that was not what God had promised. In our relationship with God, we must ensure that we do what He says. If we can't understand it we must pray about it. Avoid trying to rationalize what God has commanded you to do, as you might end up being disobedient in this process. Besides, if you could work it out on your own you wouldn't need God. So let's go beyond what we know that power can be manifested._

The Power of the Believer:

Despite our short comings, Jesus is still operating powerfully in the Church. People are still being healed, delivered, raised from the dead, and such the like. However, the enemy creates illusions to blind the people of God, many withhold their testimonies, some are too fearful to use their gifts and others become spectators that will always say nothing is happening in church.

There is however a remnant. Thanks be to God, that He only needs a few willing souls, who will truly live for Him. "Many are called, but few are chosen." (Mt. 22;14). There are many examples in the scriptures that showed how God used seemingly small or insignificant individuals to overcome great leaders and armies. Gideon, David, Ruth, Moses, John the Baptist, Peter and many others have at the word of God defied Satan and his kingdom.

God comes through for us in our everyday life. However, many don't testify despite the miracles that are happening in their midst. There are many that see testifying as just standing and shouting a praise, repeating a bible verse or a song. While there is nothing wrong with doing the fore mentioned, the mark of empowering others to go on through our experiences is most times missed. There might be someone in your midst going through the same problem that God helped you to overcome. Your testimony might be their only hope. Why is it that most individuals do not want to share their testimony? Why is it so private?

Christians are not to be selfish people especially with the things of God. It doesn't matter how small one views a testimony, it can encourage at least one individual. Just as I prayed for my tuition because I heard someone testify – we all can do the same for someone else so that they can be encouraged to lift up their faith and look to God.

When we think about the power of God we sometimes limit it to the great miracles we read of in the Old and New Testaments. But God's power is constant in our everyday life. God is so caring; it is as if all He does is think about us. He comes through for me for some things that I wouldn't even pray about. I remember one Saturday in particular. I was in New York, left work and decided to stop at the supermarket to get groceries. In the back of my mind, I knew I needed to pick up leggings because the weather had changed and it was getting colder. I went to the supermarket picked up my groceries and went home. I was so tired when I got in that I just laid the bags on the table and dived on the bed. I was working six days per week and in school full time- this was my only me time. Meaning: cleaning my house, doing laundry and cooking. About five minutes after lying there, I remembered that I didn't get the leggings. I really needed them but was too tired to leave my house again. So I remained on the bed. Minutes later my phone rang, it was a sister from church. Apparently she bought six pairs and when she tried one, it didn't fit. She said, "I only tried one, if you want them you can have them." They were my perfect fit. Isn't God good? He cares that I'm warm and comfy.

Skeptics may say that this was a coincident but I know that it was God because that's the caring God He is. I am so happy that I know Him for myself.

I remember being at work and sending off a report to a government agency. It was a report I did every month and was pretty comfortable in doing. When I went to bed that night I dreamt that the report I sent had an incorrect calculation. I went to work the next day and checked the copy I had filed only to find that figures that I dreamt were indeed what I had submitted. I was able to make the resubmission in time and correct the error made. He cares about me on the job.

Many of us can testify of God telling us what to do and how great the end of it was when we actually did what He said. Many who have not experience the power of God are many times disobedient to what God says. The people who most times say nothing is happening are the ones who will not do what God has told them to do.

Free to Worship: Healed

As I walked by a sister in church one Sunday morning with her head down, I went over and asked her what was wrong. She told me she was experiencing terrible abdominal cramps. I asked her if she wanted to be prayed for and she said yes.

I went by the rostrum and spoke to a minister who then called the sister up for prayer. They prayed for her and she told me later that day, that after they prayed, she went directly to the ladies room. She went and passed from her body whatever it was that was bothering her and she was free from pain to worship God. Healing is real and still alive in the church. "Is any sick among you? let him call for the elders of the church; and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord." James 5:4

Let the Rain Cease!

At a gospel concert that was being held outdoors, it suddenly began to rain. People began to run for cover and someone took the microphone and asked the saints to stand still and to pray for the rain to stop. Of course some still ran for shelter but a few (the remnant) stood up and spoke to the rain and it ceased. It was a joyous experience as the elements stood still at the power of believers. "And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you." Luke 17:6

The Revealing God

There was a lot of turmoil at work and it was close to the time that I would go on vacation. I could not wait. I went on vacation and was basically out of contact with the office for two weeks. Upon my return, I went in before everyone, as I normally did and sat at my desk. As I sat there, I had a vision of an employee storming in my office with his sibling angry about issues that were pertaining to the individuals I reported to. Upset about the fact that they could not reach my superiors, they started threatening me and hurling insults. I told my then coworker's relative that he does not work here so he needs to leave my office. He then became worst and so I called the police and reported him to his employers because he was dressed for work. Then the thought went away.

When the next employee arrived, I proceeded to tell her what I saw and that we must be careful. She smiled and said, "Girl it happen already- you missed it." She went on to tell me what had happen while I was away and how my former co-worker came with the same family member and behaved in a similar fashion with my superiors as I had envisioned. So I asked her if it was reported to the police and his relative's employer. She wasn't sure so when one of my superiors came in I relayed what I saw (though I felt weird doing it) and recommended that we take a similar action.

Greater Works Shall We Do

_For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things that himself doeth: and he will shew him_ _greater_ ___works_ _than these, that ye may marvel. (Jn. 5:20)_

_But I have_ _greater_ _witness than that of John: for the_ _works_ _which the Father hath given me to finish, the same_ _works_ _that I do, bear witness of me, that the Father hath sent me. (Jn. 5:36)_

_Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the_ _works_ _that I do shall he do also; and_ _greater_ ___works_ _than these shall he do; because I go unto my Father. (Jn.14:12)_

_He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned. And these signs shall follow them that believe; In my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; They shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover. (Mk. 16:16-18)_

_And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief: for verily I say unto you, If ye have_ _faith_ _as a grain of_ _mustard_ _seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you. (Mt. 17:20)_

It should be noted from the above that what the Father had shown to the Son, that He showed His disciples and by extension us. These works also bear witness of who Jesus was. That He was sent of God. "Then answered Jesus and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise." (Jn.5:19)

Those that believe on Jesus will do greater works. "The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are the children of God: And if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ." (Ro. 8:16-17) We have the power of Christ. That was the promise. When we received the Holy Ghost we were endued with power from on high. (Luke 24:49)

# Chapter 6: Blocked by Emotions, Situations and Sins

# _______________________

Relationship Nugget _: I walked into a store to buy something, however the way in which I was greeted by the store clerk was a big turn off. I had the money to buy what was being sold but would not because of the way I was treated. This also happens with our relationship with God. We have all this power inside of us but won't use it because our situations have somehow stunted us. We get blinded by our problems that we can't see the good or the potential for good that is taking place. I am so grateful today for the patience that God displays with me. If not so I would have been a cast away a long time ago._

Blocked by Emotions, Situations and Sins:

Let us turn from all transgression today. God wants to make a covenant with us. Despite our sins, if we acknowledge them and turn away, He will make a covenant with us (Isaiah 59:12-21). When we read what the word of God says about all that we should be, we know we have a lot of work to do. But with the help of God we will make it. God shows us the path He wants us to take. We don't always like it but He has given us a peace despite all, beyond our understanding and I am so grateful for that today.

We are now at a crossroad where we must fight to be victorious. We must, "Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness; And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace; Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God: Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints." (Eph. 6:11-18)

Knowing that God is on our side, it makes it a bit easier. He has appointed us to victory. We only need to follow His instructions to claim it. "For they that sleep sleep in the night; and they that be drunken are drunken in the night. But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love; and for an helmet, the hope of salvation. For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ." (1Thes. 5:7-9) We must gain strength and courage from the word of God. For, "No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and every tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn. This is the heritage of the servants of the LORD, and their righteousness is of me, saith the LORD." (Is. 54:17)

"Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us."(He.12:1) "And this I do for the gospel's sake, that I might be partaker thereof with you. Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize? So run, that ye may obtain. And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown; but we an incorruptible."

Whatever our weakness is, whatever the sin that gets us every time is. We need to lay it aside. If it gets us eveytime, it is a stronghold. When we arm ourselves in God, these are the things we fight against. Prayer and fasting is needed to break these spells that come to limit our Christian walk. I thank God for the Holy Ghost that leads us into consecration. Many times we would not have done so of ourselves. But God saw it fit to send us a Comforter to help us when we are weak.

"And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me." (2Cor. 12:9)

Testimony to Encourage:

My life story is one that is a true testament that all things work together for good. During the latter parts of 2009 and 2010 I felt so disconnected spiritually it was as if God was punishing me. This stemmed from me moving back to Jamaica after living in the US for five years. My initial return in January 2009 was to just be for six months as I was awaiting response on applications for doing doctorate studies. At the end of January I got the first response, not accepted. I still had hope in the second application because my grades were perfect and I really believed that I would get in. February came and ended, I was not accepted there either. In my mind I told myself these people made a mistake they will soon send me an email apologizing and I'll move back and continue my life. After all, I had my belongings in storage and I wasn't prepared to start all over again. Well, I didn't get an email and despite praying and fasting, the situation didn't change.

I was asking God why, because I was given a prophecy in December 2008 that would have signified that this would indeed go through. I was also told that I would get married in 2009- that didn't happen despite meeting the individual I thought I would marry. To top it off, I couldn't see beyond not being able to attend the church I was saved in, I had so many questions as to why things were going the way they were. It was just depressing.

As the time passed my prayer life was not what it used to be and it became harder and harder to have daily devotions. Work stress and adapting to a new environment took over and caused me many sleepless nights or nights dreaming about the stressing situation at work. That was no life for a Christian. The enemy used my situation as a tool to cripple me. I became so negative that even though I was being promoted in miraculous ways- I couldn't see my daily blessings. This entire emotional trauma started to affect me physically. Constant nausea, feeling faintish, sleep walking/talking, chest pains and displaying signs of diabetes were my symptoms. Various checks and a doctor's visit proved that I was ok.

I remember going to a tent crusade and the message's focus was "You don't have a heart problem, you have a sin problem." I somehow took it that the preacher was talking to me. I pondered on that word diligently as I was saying to myself - "I'm not fornicating, stealing, lying etc. So why are these things happening to me." It took a while for me to understand that I was really harboring un-forgiveness in my heart which brought along fear and unbelief. I was by this time so num that all I was doing was going through the motions. Looking at my state, I started testifying to myself so that I could remember that God loved me. I literally wrote testimonies in my cell-phone that they would alarm every three hours to encourage me. It really worked.

At the dawn of 2011, I started reviewing my life. Upon doing so I really saw all the good that God was doing with me and how He was using these situations to mold me into the woman He wanted me to be. I came to realization of my purpose in the Kingdom, but was now confused as to what was next. I started praying more. The more I prayed, the less confused I was. My prayer life was however a struggle, as the demands of the job would most times render me so tired. The Lord started calling me into prayer and I just couldn't make the time. It was a real struggle. Not that I didn't want to fast and pray but it felt like the hardest task.

I remember in this period that I couldn't miss church. Every time I went I got a little strength to continue. Thanks be to God that He knows just how to fix us in ways that we don't even know we are being fixed. When I went to Youth Camp at the end of the year, I was really empowered to let go of evil fear. That I did and I came home ready to work.

I started making dietary changes because I made up in my mind that fasting and praying will and must continue to be a consistent part of my life. I started the A Better Me newsletter in January mainly though distribution on social media. I then started the process of publishing _While I'm Waiting: Sexual Issues Facing the Unmarried_. Gradually, my job seemed to be losing the power that it had over my life. I started reading and studying my Bible more and also invested in books that lifted me spiritually and geared my focus towards missions.

During this period I was inspired to write and hence this project. I am no longer fearful that no one will want to read what I write. If it helps one individual, it would have achieved its purpose. My focus then becomes, if I write it, it should minister to me first. For me, I am creating a "system to contain the catch." I am not waiting for others to recognize me, and then to write. I write as I am inspired (by My God) knowing that God (My Friend) will do the rest. My renewed relationship with God made me positive again. I sleep well at night and have over time learnt how to calmly deal with the situations at work.

# Chapter 7: Going To The Place God Wants Me To Be

# _______________________

Relationship Nugget: _When we arrive at a place where the communication channels are fully open, trust is the developed. As a result of that, bonds are formed and a relationship gets stronger and stronger as we continue. Likewise when we continue in fasting and in prayer, we keep the communication channel open between us and God. We develop trust as we stay obedient to what He tells us to do. Strong bonds are formed that fortify our relationship with Him._

After four years of waiting, I received acceptance into my doctoral program and was excited in picking up where I felt off. In prayer one day the Lord revealed that I should not pursue registration because that was not how He wanted me to do the program. I was disappointed because I have been waiting for a long time. But then I remembered what had happen previously when I didn't follow God's instruction and decided I would do what He said.

I started looking for a similar program offered in a different way not knowing that God had already picked out a program for me. One that certifies me internationally in a specialized area, that I wouldn't have to pay for and in a shorter period of time! So it was, I was getting ready for work one day and my employer called me and said I needed to attend a training which would start in about an hour. She told me that she was filling out my application. That morning I was so upset to say the least. Words could not express my sentiments. But I later decided to go. Today I am really appreciative that I went, as God had me trained for free. Obedience pays.

God has proven Himself true to us. We can take His every word to the bank. Let's not make the same mistakes we did yesterday. But let's grow from them.

Using Spiritual Gifts:

" _And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ: Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ:" Eph. 4:11-13_

" _Even so ye, forasmuch as ye are zealous of spiritual gifts, seek that ye may excel to the edifying of the church." 1 Cor. 14:12_

According to Dictionary.com to edify is to instruct or benefit, especially morally or spiritually. It also means to uplift.

When we get to the place that God wants us to be, endued with power and bearing the fruit of the Spirit, we will be operating according to the will of God. We will also experience the supernatural power of sign and wonders. We have to also use our gifting to edify. Jesus practiced this, every miracle was an opportunity to instruct or benefit. The power of a miracle can change a life forever.

A Man Healed

" _And he that was healed wist not who it was: for Jesus had conveyed himself away, a multitude being in that place._ _Afterward Jesus findeth him in the temple, and said unto him, Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto thee. The man departed, and told the Jews that it was Jesus, which had made him whole." Jn. 5: 13-15_

Jesus could have just healed him and let him go about his business. But He didn't. He told him not to sin anymore lest he found himself in a worst situation. He gave him instructions.

A Woman Caught In Adultery

" _And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery; and when they had set her in the midst, They say unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act._ _Now Moses in the law commanded us, that such should be stoned: but what sayest thou? This they said, tempting him, that they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not._ _So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground. And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? hath no man condemned thee? She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more." Jn. 8:3-11_

Through a divine word of wisdom, Jesus stopped the Scribes and the Pharisees from stoning the woman caught in adultery. By the Law of Moses she should have been stoned to death. The love of Jesus gave her a second chance. She was told to sin no more. Her accusers were left to contemplate their sins. One can only image the awe that filled them when Jesus said those words. God is the true Judge. No one can condemn you when Jesus sets you free.

A Man Possessed

" _And, behold, a man of the company cried out, saying, Master, I beseech thee, look upon my son: for he is mine only child. And, lo, a spirit taketh him, and he suddenly crieth out; and it teareth him that he foameth again, and bruising him hardly departeth from him. And I besought thy disciples to cast him out; and they could not._ _And Jesus answering said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you, and suffer you? Bring thy son hither. And as he was yet a coming, the devil threw him down, and tare him. And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the child, and delivered him again to his father. And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God. But while they wondered every one at all things which Jesus did, he said unto his disciples,_ _Let these sayings sink down into your ears: for the Son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men._ _But they understood not this saying, and it was hid from them, that they perceived it not: and they feared to ask him of that saying." (Lu. 9: 38-45)_

Jesus used this opportunity to edify his disciples even though they didn't get it at the time. The power that he demonstrated in delivering the child would have given his disciples strength in believing that God was really with Him. Yet when He was betrayed and delivered, they seemingly forgot about the power He portrayed.

The gifts of the Spirit are not for self glorification. They are for building and edifying the body of Christ. He gave us His Spirit so that we can operate as He does. That the body will be truly unified. He is the Head of the Church. Therefore, it is He who is in control. Any glory in miracles should be attributed to Him.

When a miracle happened in the early church it brought crowds. People wanted to know about this power because they see the lame walk, the sick healed, the dead raised and people delivered from demonic oppression. These things come when faith is present. The bible states that "So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. But I say, Have they not heard? Yes verily, their sound went into all the earth, and their words unto the ends of the world. But I say, Did not Israel know? First Moses saith, I will provoke you to jealousy by them that are no people, and by a foolish nation I will anger you. But Esaias is very bold, and saith, I was found of them that sought me not; I was made manifest unto them that asked not after me. But to Israel he saith, All day long I have stretched forth my hands unto a disobedient and gainsaying people." (Ro. 10:17-21)

Disobedience and unbelief blocks faith. These are manifestations of weaknesses in our relationship with the Master. We should be doing greater works as Jesus said but we are faced with the fact that many are not connected to the vine of Christ. Their branches have been removed. "Well; because of unbelief they were broken off, and thou standest by faith. Be not highminded, but fear: For if God spared not the natural branches, take heed lest he also spare not thee. Behold therefore the goodness and severity of God: on them which fell, severity; but toward thee, goodness, if thou continue in his goodness: otherwise thou also shalt be cut off. And they also, if they abide not still in unbelief, shall be grafted in: for God is able to graft them in again." (Ro. 11:20-23) To God be the glory! They that were unbelieving, if they change their ways and believe, God is able to graft them in again. Hallelujah!

We have to build and maintain our faith. It is not a onetime thing. That is why our testimonies and relationship with the Lord are so important. As it was in the early church, our communities will be reached by the works that are taking place in our midst.

People are Drawn to Power

" _And believers were the more added to the Lord, multitudes both of men and women.)_ _Insomuch that they brought forth the sick into the streets, and laid them on beds and couches, that at the least the shadow of Peter passing by might overshadow some of them._ _There came also a multitude out of the cities round about unto Jerusalem, bringing sick folks, and them which were vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed everyone." (Acts. 5:14-16)_

Not only did believers come, but they believed that whatever their issues were if the shadow of Peter passed them they would be healed. They didn't even need the Apostles to lay hands. If we took this on, we would experience so much power, just by testifying. Imagine someone having a terminal illness that everybody in community and work place or school knew about, the doctors gave up on them and then they miraculously received healing. If they were like the people back then to run and tell everyone they saw, I bet others would come for the same miracle. Our testimony is the easiest way to evangelize. But we sit on it. If I were to stand in most Apostolic churches and ask how many people have ever received healing and deliverance many would stand. The enemy has somehow locked us in a box that we don't want to talk about where we are coming from. We say to ourselves that: "I don't want people to know that I had this disease."

You rarely hear anyone testify that they were delivered from demonic possession, yet I have seen many delivered of the same.

We hug it and take it to bed. No one gets empowered and no one comes to God. We have to move beyond, disobedience, unbelief and selfishness in order to flourish. The Church of God still stands POWERFULLY. We the church just need to get our act together and do what God wills us to do.

If we yield the true fruit of the Spirit, then we are operating in the will of God. If we fear not and use our gifts for the edification of the church then we will be fruitful branches. If we testify of what God has done for us, we build the faith of others and aid in adding new believers to the body. We all have work to do! No man is exempt.

All these great things are fulfilled in having a relationship with God. We will do His commandments because we love Him. We will live and pray effectively because we read His word. We will use our gifts to edify and through our testimony of Christ evangelize this world. When we do all of this, our lifestyle will be one of worship. We will live as grateful people always giving thanks even in the hard times.

Sharing what Blesses Me:

I like making sense of things and after I got saved I had so many questions. These questions I posed to my leaders at church every chance I got. As I read the word, and grew in God- I had fewer questions for them. So much so that my New Converts' teacher after my graduation always said I didn't remember him. That was far from the truth, our leaders are there to nurture us in the truth. That was definitely my experience at the Born Again United Church. Just as a baby doesn't stay a baby, I took on different stages of development. A child born into the world is sculpted and socialized to how they will get around and communicate and then after awhile they can stand on their own, then eventually walk. Not that they won't still require guidance but now they can help themselves a little more. I can attest to this, there was a period when I would awake like clockwork at the same time every night. It was not stress, but I just couldn't figure out what it was. I spoke to my Pastor's wife and she told me that it was the Lord wanting to have a relationship with me. She gave me instructions as to what to do and I proved what she said to be right. We need that guidance from our leaders.

As my spiritual strength grew and I started developing a relationship with God, I started posing many of my questions to Him. I started reading the word more and I started writing what was ministered to me. I would many times go back through the notes for strength as I faced my daily life struggles. What I write has helped me, and since I began sharing it with others they have testified that it has also ministered to them. To God be the Glory. We are not saved to stay in the same position. As we grow we must take on roles of kingdom building.

We all can have a relationship with God. If you have not yet started that journey, you can today. Believe, accept and walk with God.

**Believe** that Jesus died on the cross to redeem you. As such, **repent** of your sins not just by being sorry, but by turning away from them and turning to God. "But if ye turn unto me, and keep my commandments, and do them; though there were of you cast out unto the uttermost part of the heaven, yet will I gather them from thence, and will bring them unto the place that I have chosen to set my name there." Neh.1:9

**Accept** this redemption by identifying with the Lord through **water baptism** in His name. "For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit: By which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison; Which sometime were disobedient, when once the longsuffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls were saved by water. The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us (not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God,) by the resurrection of Jesus Christ: Who is gone into heaven, and is on the right hand of God; angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto him." 1Pe.3:18-22. There comes a point where we have to move beyond belief. If the people in Noah's day truly believed him that the flood was coming they would have entered in the ark and they would not have perished. Likewise to believe that Christ died for us and not accept the remedy doesn't really help anyone. Action is required for identification. "And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned." Mk 16:15-16. Baptism follows belief.

**Walk**. When we truly accept Christ, he equips us to walk with Him by baptizing us with the **Holy Ghost**. God comes to live in us giving us direct access to Him to provide direction in every aspect of our life. It is by this power that we are able to live above sin. We all need the Holy Ghost. We can't fulfill our destinies without Him. The Holy Ghost is essential to our relationship with Christ. "Ye shall walk after the LORD your God, and fear him, and keep his commandments, and obey his voice, and ye shall serve him, and cleave unto him." Deu. 13:4. The Holy Ghost is our help in obeying God and His commandments are written on our hearts (1 Jh. 2:27). "But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you."(John 14:26). John the Baptist"... preached, saying, There cometh one mightier than I after me, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose. I indeed have baptized you with water: but he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost." Mk. 1:7-8. The Holy Ghost is given by Christ Himself when we believe.

Summary: "Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? Then Peter said unto them, **Repent** , and be **baptized** every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the **Holy Ghost**. For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call." Acts 2:37-39

Will you believe, accept and walk with Christ today?

Section 2

_______________________

Support Information

# Chapter 8: Communicating

# _______________________

As was previously mentioned, communication is central to the success of our relationship with Christ. In reading His word we know what He expects of us. In praying to Him we tell Him our expectations. I have found that the starting point of making a stronger relationship with God is reading His word while praying for the understanding of it. For if we read and understand the word, wisdom will follow.

Psalm 119:105 declares: "Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path." We need the word of God to do what He says so that we sin not. "Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against thee."Ps.119:11

I have had countless experiences of having to go to the word to overcome challenges in my Christian walk. I first look at what the word says that I should or should not do. If I find that I'm doing something that is contrary to the word of God, I try to find out what are the triggers for my actions, I also get examples of individuals overcoming my issue (both in everyday life and or in the bible) for encouragement and a made up mind based on my hope in God's power working in my life. It is very important that when we fast and pray about things that limit us, that we find out what triggers these limitations. By doing so we are able to effectively fight our spiritual battles. What also makes the process easier is that technology has given us the opportunity to search key words in various electronic bibles. So there is no excuse of not knowing where to look for help.

We need the word as our road map. This is our starting point. It is foundation to our growth in Christ. The word keeps us grounded. Show me a man who is all about himself thinking he is above all and I will show you a man void of the word.

Once we get intimate with the word of God we will have a better understanding of what to pray and how to do it.

There are other aspects of communication such as meditation, praise and worship. These will not be spoken to specifically as I believe that if we are consistent in the word and prayer these three will follow.

Fasting and Prayer

What is fastening?

For the purpose of this discussion we will focus on how fasting is used in Christianity as per the Bible. This is the absolute or partial abstaining from food and drink in order to place the flesh under subjection. We see in the Bible that fasting and prayer was used to seek God before many great things took place. Esther fasted three days before going before King Ahasuerus to make her petition to save her people (Ester 4:16). Moses was in the Mount forty days and forty nights when he received the Ten Commandments (Exd. 34:27-29).

There are many more varying examples. In an attempt to understand how and why people applied fasting and praying the following examples are reviewed:

Praying for God's Help

Nehemiah 1:3-12

" _And they said unto me, The remnant that are left of the captivity there in the province are in great affliction and reproach: the wall of Jerusalem also is broken down, and the gates thereof are burned with fire._ _And it came to pass, when I heard these words, that I sat down and wept, and mourned certain days, and fasted, and prayed before the God of heaven, And said, I beseech thee, O Lord God of heaven, the great and terrible God, that keepeth covenant and mercy for them that love him and observe his commandments: Let thine ear now be attentive, and thine eyes open, that thou mayest hear the prayer of thy servant, which I pray before thee now, day and night, for the children of Israel thy servants, and confess the sins of the children of Israel, which we have sinned against thee: both I and my father's house have sinned._ _We have dealt very corruptly against thee, and have not kept the commandments, nor the statutes, nor the judgments, which thou commandedst thy servant Moses. Remember, I beseech thee, the word that thou commandedst thy servant Moses, saying, If ye transgress, I will scatter you abroad among the nations: But if ye turn unto me, and keep my commandments, and do them; though there were of you cast out unto the uttermost part of the heaven, yet will I gather them from thence, and will bring them unto the place that I have chosen to set my name there. Now these are thy servants and thy people, whom thou hast redeemed by thy great power, and by thy strong hand. O Lord, I beseech thee, let now thine ear be attentive to the prayer of thy servant, and to the prayer of thy servants, who desire to fear thy name: and prosper, I pray thee, thy servant this day, and grant him mercy in the sight of this man. For I was the king's cupbearer."_

Nehemiah was lamenting the affliction that the Children of Israel were facing. He fasted and prayed for God's help. He acknowledged that they had sinned and he reminded God of His promise to Moses and the people. "But if ye turn unto me, and keep my commandments, and do them; though there were of you cast out unto the uttermost part of the heaven, yet will I gather them from thence, and will bring them unto the place that I have chosen to set my name there." If Nehemiah did not know the word, he would not know what to pray.

Isn't it good that we have the Bible for our guide? We know what commandments we break and the sins we need to repent of. We have clearly defined guidelines. To make it greater we also have the promises of God which are sure. If God said it, He will do it. We can hold Him to His word. God cannot lie. When we come to God we have to be honest about our sins. Repent by turning away from them and believe and accept His promises to us. We have to know that our God keeps His word; else our faith and our prayers would be in vain. It is as simple as this, whatever God says to do, do it. It doesn't matter what your situation betide, God will bless you. He will sustain you, you are covered.

God gave Nehemiah favour, and the king allowed him to go to Jerusalem to build the wall. But we noticed that even while he yet spoke with the king, Nehemiah was praying (seeNe.2:4). We are to, "Pray without ceasing." (1Th. 5:17)

Another important thing to note when you are fasting is to have your thoughts in meditation and in line with the purpose of that fast. Let it sink in. Let the words and promises of God permeate your very being. Even if it's on one scripture verse or one line that God promised you personally, let it pervade or saturate your mind. You might find a song that reminds you of your focus, sing or hum that song. It helps to bring you to the place to really go deep in prayer.

This also helps after you have fasted and might come upon opposing situations or discouragement. Repeat the promise or song to yourself and be encouraged. Nehemiah had to deal with Sanballat, Tobiah and Geshem who laughed at him about building the walls. But he persevered, believed God and was victorious.

**Praying for God to Fight for Us**

Psalm 35

" _Plead my cause, O Lord, with them that strive with me: fight against them that fight against me. Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for mine help. Draw out also the spear, and stop the way against them that persecute me: say unto my soul, I am thy salvation. Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul: let them be turned back and brought to confusion that devise my hurt._ _Let them be as chaff before the wind: and let the angel of the Lord chase them. Let their way be dark and slippery: and let the angel of the Lord persecute them. For without cause have they hid for me their net in a pit, which without cause they have digged for my soul._ _Let destruction come upon him at unawares; and let his net that he hath hid catch himself: into that very destruction let him fall. And my soul shall be joyful in the Lord: it shall rejoice in his salvation. All my bones shall say, Lord, who is like unto thee, which deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him, yea, the poor and the needy from him that spoileth him? False witnesses did rise up; they laid to my charge things that I knew not. They rewarded me evil for good to the spoiling of my soul. But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth: I humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer returned into mine own bosom._ _I behaved myself as though he had been my friend or brother: I bowed down heavily, as one that mourneth for his mother. But in mine adversity they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together: yea, the abjects gathered themselves together against me, and I knew it not; they did tear me, and ceased not: With hypocritical mockers in feasts, they gnashed upon me with their teeth. Lord, how long wilt thou look on? rescue my soul from their destructions, my darling from the lions. I will give thee thanks in the great congregation: I will praise thee among much people. Let not them that are mine enemies wrongfully rejoice over me: neither let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause. For they speak not peace: but they devise deceitful matters against them that are quiet in the land. Yea, they opened their mouth wide against me, and said, Aha, aha, our eye hath seen it._ _This thou hast seen, O Lord: keep not silence: O Lord, be not far from me. Stir up thyself, and awake to my judgment, even unto my cause, my God and my Lord. Judge me, O Lord my God, according to thy righteousness; and let them not rejoice over me. Let them not say in their hearts, Ah, so would we have it: let them not say, We have swallowed him up. Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion together that rejoice at mine hurt: let them be clothed with shame and dishonour that magnify themselves against me. Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that favour my righteous cause: yea, let them say continually, Let the Lord be magnified, which hath pleasure in the prosperity of his servant._ _And my tongue shall speak of thy righteousness and of thy praise all the day long."_

When we are in the right we can always go to God. We can ask Him to defend us from those who wrongfully over power us. The Words of David in this text are very strong and seem really harsh. "Make their way dark and slippery." That is rough. Doesn't the word of God say bless and curse not? Yes it did in Romans 12:14. If you read the text carefully David was a blessing to those who were persecuting him. In fact, the fasting and prayer that was included in this text dealt with David actually fasting and praying when they were sick for their recovery (Ps. 35:13). Yet these were the same people to rejoice when he was in a calamity. Can you imagine mourning and giving up of yourself for individuals that hate you (Jesus did that)? Though David said these harsh words, his rejoicing was in the God of his Salvation not in their hurt. David's prayer was demanding the justice of God on his enemies. He was simply praying the word of God. "The LORD shall cause thine enemies that rise up against thee to be smitten before thy face: they shall come out against thee one way, and flee before thee seven ways."(Det. 28:7)

Let us take for instance the situation of the Children of Israel being persecuted by the Egyptians: "And Moses said unto the people, Fear ye not, stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will shew to you today: for the Egyptians whom ye have seen today, ye shall see them again no more for ever. The Lord shall fight for you, and ye shall hold your peace." (Ex. 14:113-14) We know that God did not deal with the Egyptians in a nice way. David prayed on a similar premise.

Make no mistake; God will avenge those that are persecuted innocently. This is why Jesus and Stephen even when they were about to be killed, asked for the forgiveness of their oppressors. Their oppressors didn't know that by afflicting God's people they were pouring upon themselves a greater judgment. God will fight for His people. No one will exalt themselves against them without paying the price. God will salvage us. We only have to believe and trust HIM. "When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes, came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell." (Ps. 27:2). Saying all of that to say this, let us focus on the good we can do, God will avenge His people. When we fast and pray, we are not to pray evil for any man. God is judge and will reward every man according to his deeds.

Fasting and Praying for Deliverance:

In Daniel Chapter 9, we see where Daniel fasted and prayed to God for the deliverance of the Children of Israel. In this prayer we see where he acknowledged his sins and those of the Children of Israel; in fact verses 5 through 15 were confessions of sins. While verses 16 through 19 were for seeking forgiveness. The scriptures also revealed that while Daniel yet prayed, he was visited by an angel of God who gave him clarification. When we get intimate with God, we will move heaven.

Examples of Fasting and Praying in the New Testament:

Luke 2:36-38

" _And there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Aser: she was of a great age, and had lived with an husband seven years from her virginity; And she was a widow of about fourscore and four years, which departed not from the temple, but served God with fastings and prayers night and day._ _And she coming in that instant gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of him to all them that looked for redemption in Jerusalem."_

_Luke5:32-34_ _  
"I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance._ _And they said unto him, Why do the disciples of John fast often, and make prayers, and likewise the disciples of the Pharisees; but thine eat and drink?_ _And he said unto them, Can ye make the children of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them?"_

_Acts 10:29-31_

" _Therefore came I unto you without gainsaying, as soon as I was sent for: I ask therefore for what intent ye have sent for me? And Cornelius said, Four days ago I was fasting until this hour; and at the ninth hour I prayed in my house, and, behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing, And said, Cornelius, thy prayer is heard, and thine alms are had in remembrance in the sight of God."_

_Acts 13:2-4_

" _As they ministered to the Lord, and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called them._ _And when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. So they, being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed unto Seleucia; and from thence they sailed to Cyprus."_

_Acts 14:22-24_

" _Confirming the souls of the disciples, and exhorting them to continue in the faith, and that we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God. And when they had ordained them elders in every church, and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord, on whom they believed. And after they had passed throughout Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia."_

1 Corinthians 7:5 _  
"Defraud ye not one the other, except it be with consent for a time, that ye may give yourselves to_ _fast_ _ing_ _and_ ___pray_ _er;_ _and_ _come together again, that Satan tempt you not for your incontinency."_

We see that both in the old and new testaments prayer and fasting were essential to the believer. In Luke 5 we see where a question was posed to Jesus about why His disciples did not fast. In His answer, Jesus declared that given that the Bridegroom (Jesus) was with them they needed not to. Matthew 9:15 declares: "And Jesus said unto them, Can the children of the bridechamber mourn, as long as the bridegroom is with them? but the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken from them, and then shall they fast." We fast and afflict ourselves because we mourn our Savior, not that He is dead but because we await His coming. Our goal is to accept His remedy to this sinful world that when He puts in His appearance, we will be adorned and ready for the marriage. "Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb." (Rev. 19:9)

Fasting and praying in the early church as evidenced by the above scriptures was a way of life. God was sought for the making of Ministry decisions, direction and spiritual empowerment. The saints today have to do the same. We all have to take inventory of our lives and relationship with God so that we can know what is lacking in our relationship. Fasting and praying helps us to do that. When we come to the knowledge of any fault, we must repent and do that which is right. We must then move towards maintaining our relationship and executing God's mandate for us (Our Purpose). Fasting and praying opens that communication channel in our relationship with God to lead us into our purposes.

# Chapter 9: Overcoming God's Way

# _______________________

As Christians we will come upon many things that come to limit or Christian Walk or challenge our relationship with God. These issues or things must be seen as enemies of our souls.

You got saved and are now living for God. You now realize there is a war for you to do the right thing. Many times you end up being disobedient to the will of God. You sometimes feel so helpless because you don't know how to overcome and so you have left yourself up to the whims of the elements. I declare to you today, there is another way. I was in bible study one night and the teacher shared this strategy. I really found it helpful in my walk so I will also share it with you.

_2 Chronicles 32: 1-5:_ _After these things, and the establishment thereof, Sennacherib king of Assyria came, and entered into Judah, and encamped against the fenced cities, and thought to win them for himself. And when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come, and that he was purposed to fight against Jerusalem, He took counsel with his princes and his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains which were without the city: and they did help him. So there was gathered much people together, who stopped all the fountains, and the brook that ran through the midst of the land, saying, Why should the kings of Assyria come, and find much water? Also he strengthened himself, and built up all the wall that was broken, and raised it up to the towers, and another wall without, and repaired Millo in the city of David, and made darts and shields in abundance._

From the above text four things can be deducted that will aid us in being victorious in battle. These are: Identifying the Enemy, Getting Help, Not Giving the Enemy Ammunition and, Strengthening One's Self.

**Identifying the Enemy** : This is so important as you won't be able to overcome if you have no clue of what or who your enemy is. "Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come, and that he was purposed to fight against Jerusalem." This made Sennacherib an enemy. Likewise, there are things that come to fight against you as a Christian. The purpose of these is to cause you to sin and be separated from God. You have to be able to identify them. For example, if you struggle with acting on sexual urges, you can first find out what triggers your urges in the first place. If you don't get urges you won't act on them. So identify what causes you to want to have sex.

**Getting Help** : "He took counsel with his princes and his mighty men." After you have identified the enemy, a plan of action must be developed to deal with the same. How will you fight these things? You must begin by asking God to guide you in dealing this enemy. You can also do as Hezekiah did, find trusted individuals who can give godly counsel. Individuals you can honestly share your feelings with and be accountable to. DON'T take the stance that you are a super person that can fight on your own. We all need each other. We all need an inner circle. We all need God's help. "He took counsel with his princes and his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains which were without the city: and they did help him." Through council Hezekiah got an effective strategy as to how to proceed in battle. Using the previous exam of sexual urges, ask God and/or trusted individuals how you should deal with the triggers to our urges and the emotions you associate to the same.

**Not Giving the Enemy Ammunition** : "So there was gathered much people together, who stopped all the fountains, and the brook that ran through the midst of the land, saying, Why should the kings of Assyria come, and find much water?" This was indeed a smart move. When they blocked their water from flowing into and supporting the enemy's camp, they were making sure that they gave the enemy no assistance in defeating them. We have to do the same thing. If we are struggling in an area, we can't continue placing ourselves in a position to make the same mistakes. Continuing with the previous example, you cannot compromise; if you do eventually you will end up doing the act or worst. Phone sex, nude pictures and videos, anal and oral sex, masturbation(Mt5:27-28). These things will give the enemy room to destroy you. Initially the enemy will lay guilt on you and then after awhile your conscience will be snared. Don't try to see how far you can go. Don't willingly expose your senses to the things that trigger you sexually. These are very practical things that will help in you battle against sexual urges and sexual immorality.

**Strengthening One's Self** : "Also he strengthened himself, and built up all the wall that was broken, and raised it up to the towers, and another wall without, and repaired Millo in the city of David, and made darts and shields in abundance." We see that Hezekiah didn't just build a strategy based on his own strength or that of his men. But he trusted in God that He will fight for them. We have to do the same thing. After we have identified the enemy, sought help and not give the enemy any ammunition against us, we also need to strengthen ourselves for battle. In using the example on dealing with sexual immorality the following can be taken into consideration:

Fasting and Praying

Getting into the Word

Getting involved with church activities

Channeling your energy into something positive.

Even if you have already messed up- strengthen that which remains- Revelations 3:2-3

In doing these things we build spiritual muscles while at the same time channel our physical energy into positive areas. When we get in the word and read what God says about sexual immorality we will have a clear picture of where we should be as saints. When we fast and pray we will be deliberate about the things that cause our sexual urges and the issues that cause us to fall. By doing this we don't pray amiss. We know where we should be, we know where we are and we know what is blocking us. This is what you fast and pray about.

You have to always be mindful that there will be many things to harm or destroy your relationship with God and your walk as a Christian. Sexual immorality is just one issue among many. One has to know that when you overcome one issue you won't be left free of all cares. Maintaining your relationship is a continuous process. It requires you constantly and deliberately checking to see where you have fallen short or where there is a potential to do the same, and taking the best actions to ensure that your relationship is in good standing. This is a lifestyle of true worship and because we follow God's words we know that we love Him and that we are bearing the fruit of the Spirit. We will also find that He will give us strength to walk as when we are weak then are we strong.

Let's stay in constant communication with Him that we know and continue in His will for our lives. Let's keep the relationship flowing. God Bless You!

If you enjoyed this book, be sure to check out other titles from Kerry-Ann Barrett:

Planning My Money

While I'm Waiting

For the Discouraged

Be sure to visit us at KerrykayPublications.com
