 
MY QUOTE BOOK LIKE NO OTHER

Just for fun...

ALEXANDER BUSYBRAIN

Text copyright © 2018 Alexander BusyBrain

All Rights Reserved

License Notes

Thank you for downloading this eBook. This book remains the copyrighted property of the author, and may not be redistributed to others for commercial or non-commercial purposes. If you enjoyed this book, please encourage your friends to download their own copy from their favorite authorized retailer. Thank you for your support.
CHAPTER 1

BOYS FACT

  1. Guys love you more than you love them if they are serious in your relationship.

  2. Guys hate girls who overreact.

  3. If a guy says you are beautiful that guy likes you.

  4. Girls are allowed to touch boy's things. Not their hair!!!

  5. Guys seek for advice not from a guy but from a girl.

  6. When a guy says he can't sleep if he doesn't hear your voice even just for one night, hang up. He also tells that to another girl. He only flatters you and sometimes makes fun of you.

  7. If a guy suddenly asks you for a date, ask him first why.

  8. You can tell if a guy is really hurt or in pain when he cries in front of you.

  9. Guys learn from experience not from the romance books that girls read and take their basis of experience.

  10. If a guy lets you go he really loves you.

  11. When you catch him cheating on you and he asks for a second chance, give it to him. But when you catch him cheating again and he asks for another chance, ignore him.

  12. When a problem arises, a guy usually keeps himself cool but is already thinking of a way out.

  13. A guy's weakest point is at the knee.

  14. Guys find it so objectionable when a girl swears.

  15. Any guy can handle his problem all by his own. He is just too stubborn to deal with it.

  16. Guys tend to generalize about girls but once they get to know them, they will realize they were wrong.

  17. Guys don't care about how shiny their shoes are unlike girls.

  18. When a guy gives a crooked or pretentious grin at your jokes, he finds them offending and he just tried to be polite.

  19. Guys don't comprehend the statement "Get lost" too well.

  20. Guys are more talkative than girls are especially when the topic is about girls.

  21. Girls who bathe in their perfumes do more repelling than attracting guys.

  22. Don't be biased. Try loving a guy without prejudice and you will be surprised.

  23. Don't be a snob. Guys may easily give up on the first sign of rejection.

  24. A guy's friend knows everything about him. Use that to your advantage.

  25. A guy has more problems than you can see with your naked eyes.

  26. Guys really think that girls are strange and have unpredictable decisions but still love than more.

  27. Guys like girls who are like their moms. No kidding

  28. Guys love girls who can cook or bake.

  29. A guy would waste his time over video games and out door games the way a girl would do over her romance novels and make up.

  30. A guy may instantly know if the girl likes him but can never be sure unless the girl tells him.

  31. Guys don't like girls who punch harder than they do.

  32. Guys like femininity not feebleness.

  33. Guys believe that there is no such thing as long at first sight, but court the girls anyway and then realize at the end that he was wrong.

  34. If a guy has been kept shut or silent, say something.

  35. If a guy starts to talk seriously listen to him.

  36. When a guy loves you, bring out the best in him.

  37. Guys don't really have final decisions.

  38. When a guy asks you to leave him alone, he is just actually saying, "Please come and listen to me".

  39. When a guy says he is going crazy about the girl. He really is.

  40. When a guy pretends to be calm, check if he is sweating, you will probably see that he is nervous.

  41. Guys are tigers in their peer groups but become tamed pussy cat with their girlfriends.

  42. Guys have strong passion to change but have weak will power.

  43. When an unlikable circumstance comes, guys blame themselves a lot more than girls do. They could even hurt themselves physically.

  44. A guy has to experience rejection, because if he's too-good-never-been-busted-never been in love and hurt, he won't matured and grow up.

  45. You have to tell a guy what you really want before getting involved with that guy.

  46. Guys tend to get serious with their relationship and become too possessive. So watch out girls!!

  47. Girl's height doesn't really matter to a guy but her weight does.

  48. Guy's fantasies are unlimited.

  49. Guys think too much.

  50. Guys cannot keep secrets that girls tell them.

  51. Guys virtually brag about anything.

  52. Guys love girls with brains more than girls in miniskirts.

  53. A guy finds ways to keep you off from linking with someone else.

  54. A usual act that proves that the guy likes you is when he teases you.

  55. Guys really admire girls that they like even if they are not that much pretty.

  56. No guy is bad when he is courting.

  57. It is good to test a guy first before you believe him. But don't let him wait that long.

  58. Guys are very open about themselves.

  59. Guys like it when you tell them to take care of themselves after a long conversation.

  60. Beware guys can make gossips scatter through half of the face of the earth faster than girls can.

  61. If a guy tells you he loves you once in a life time. He does.

  62. You can never understand him unless you listen to him.

  63. A guy often thinks about the girls who like him but this does not mean that the guy like her.

  64. A guy would sacrifice his money for lunch just to get you a couple of roses.

  65. Guys love their moms.

  66. Guys hate gays.

  67. You have to tell a guy what you really want before he gets the message clearly.

  68. When a girl say "no" a guy hears it as "try" again tomorrow.

  69. When a guy makes a prolonged "umm" or makes any excuse when you are asking him to do you a favor, he is actually saying he doesn't like you and he can't lay down the card for you.

  70. Guys are good flatterers when courting but they usually stammer when they talk to a girl they really like.

  71. Guys usually try hard to get the girl who has dumped them, and this makes it harder for them to accept their defeat.

  72. Guys can never dream and hope too much.

  73. Don't provoke the guy to heat up. Believe me. He will.

  74. Guys cry!!!

  75. Guys want to tell you many things but they can't. And they sure have one habit to gain courage and spirit to tell you many things and it is drinking.

  76. When guys want to meet your parents. Let them.

  77. Guys hate it when you talk about your ex-boyfriend.

  78. Guys will do anything just to get the girls attention.

  79. Guys go crazy over a girl's smile.

  80. When a guy really likes you, he will disregard all your bad characteristics.

  81. Guys may be flirting around all day but before they go to sleep, they always think about the girl they truly care about.

  82. Are you doing something? Or have you eaten already? Are the first usual questions a guy asks on the phone just to get out from stammering.

  83. When a guy says he doesn't understand you, it simply means you are not thinking the way he is.

  84. A guy can like you for a minute, and then forget you afterwards.

  85. Guys love flirts.

  86. Guys don't actually look after good-looking girls. They prefer neat and presentable girls.

  87. When a guy gets something that is too unyielding for a girl it will be hard for him to let go that girl.

  88. It is not easy for guy to forget his girl friend after they broke up especially when they have been together for three or more years.

  89. Flings follow after a guy breaks up with a girl he got so involved with and it would take long before he commits himself again.

  90. It is not actually cute to giggling behind a guy back. It is more of an insult for him.

  91. Girls mature faster than boys in the physical and emotional aspects. But take note. Once a guy matures, you girls will be surely be impressed.

  92. When an unbelievable circumstance comes, guys blame themselves a lot more than girls do. They could even hurt themselves.

  93. Guys can only be violent when they are provoked by their enemy or by another guy but never with a girl. Guys who fight and hurt girls are assholes.

  94. Even the seemingly nicest guys can talk dirty behind a girl back.

  95. Guys hate it when girls try to do what they do, like drinking and smoking.

  96. Without girls, guys would end up like zombies without anything to do or talk about.

  97. Guys are curious beings.

  98. Guys talk about themselves too much and are turned off by girls who do the same.

  99. Guys try to find the stuffed toy a girl wants but get the wrong one.

  100. Like Eve, girls are guys EURTM weaknesses.

CHAPTER 2

GIRLS FACTS

  1. For all we talk about is how hot guys are. We mostly care about their personality though a hot body is a plus.

  2. We are just as shy as you are about relationships.

  3. Many of us don't let you see us cry, unless we want you to comfort us.

  4. We like dropping small flirts, to see if you are interested. But we will later deny it or make it into a joke.

  5. Most of us prefer to be call beautiful than hot or sexy. But not all of us.

  6. We only wear miniskirts, tank tops and skimpy cloths for you (unless it is really hot outside). So if you don't like what we wear say something likely look really nice today but you know I think I like you in jeans better.

  7. Most girls spend about 15% of the time thinking about specific guys. 20% thinking of guys in general. 25% thinking of how to get guy notice us and what to say when we do. 30% of the time talking about guys (even if someone else is not listening) and 10% of the time doing something else.

  8. Girls automatically assume that all guys are fuckers and only want to get into our pants until you prove otherwise (and even then some small part of us still thinks that).

  9. Most girls are under the impression that guys only want skinny "hot" girls.

  10. Most girls enjoy being paraded around once in a while in front of your friends. We enjoy having you shown off to your friends, kind of like, Hey, look at my hot girlfriend!! Aren't you jealous? But we don't enjoy being nothing but a trophy girl.

  11. Nicknames like "Babe or darling is safe to call just any girl. But beware of "Princess or Angel. Some girls will take an offense to this thinking you are calling them too innocent or incapable of taking care of themselves.

  12. Speaking of nicknames, almost every girl has one nickname that they just love to be called.

  13. Most girls will drop lots of hints to tell you that they like you, but won't come right out and say "I love you". If you think they like you there is a good chance they do.

  14. Girls hate it when guys say perverted things.

  15. Girls love to feel special, even though they might not show it.

  16. Girls talk about everything with their girl friends. So unless you tell us not to tell them about something, they will know about it within three days. And if you are the girl's boyfriend; that means you are possibly 90% of their conversation. And believe me, trash talking takes up most of it, unless you are a Greek god, which you are hot.

  17. Girls hate guys with bad hygiene.

  18. Girls love it when a guy pulls them close by the waist.

  19. Most girls like a guy that will willing dance with them, even if he does not know how.

  20. Usually when a girl is sarcastically means to you, it means they are attracted to you, but are afraid that they will be showing too much.

  21. A kiss on the hand with the right timing can be a real TURN-ON.

  22. Some girls can think about their crushes for 18 hours straight. No exaggeration.

  23. When a guy says something really sentimental, girls will remember it forever.

  24. Girls get embarrassed easily, even if guys don't know what the hell just happened.

  25. Girls daydream about their crushes all the time. They just don't show it.

  26. When a girl is upset and wants you to listen, she wants you to listen. She does not want your fix it or tell me how to. She just wants you to listen.

  27. When a girl is crying, she feels a lot safer if you pull her close and tell her that everything is going to be all right. And more likely than not, it will endear them to you more than anything else.

  28. Girls love it when guys say their name.

  29. When a girl cooks for you, you mean a lot to her.

  30. Girls hate it when other girls flirt, yet they flirt themselves too. Ah, the beauty of irony.

  31. We don't enjoy talking dirty to you as much as you enjoy listening.

  32. Saying something sweet might get you off the hook, doing something sweet will always get you off the hook.

  33. Size does matter, but only to hoes, not guys that want relationship.

  34. No matter what you say, your ex-girlfriend is a hoe to us. Not because we don't like your taste in women, because believe me we do! It is just that we don't want to have to wander if she is better than us. And if she is a hoe. We are better. So it makes things simple for us.

  35. We are self conscious by nature, we can't help it. But we can try to hide it.

  36. Even if you think it is cool to burp, fart or emit other strange gases from your body, it is not. Though we sometimes will tell you it is.

  37. As far as we are concerned, we are beautiful at all times, and don't tell us different unless you make it sound like a compliment (even if it is not) like, you were really pretty yesterday when you wore that, insert cloth or accessory here, I think you should wear that more often.

  38. Don't cheat on us. It may seem foolproof, but girls tell each other everything. Trust me, they will find out and you will be dirt.

  39. We want you to beware of every male relative and all guy friends. All of them would kick your ass at the drop of a hat and a lot of them would not even wait for the damn hat, we just don't want you to be too obvious.

  40. We enjoy being kissed by you in front of your friends. It makes us feel like you care a lot about us.

  41. You don't have PMS. So don't act like you know what it's like. Don't try to understand believe me you never will.

  42. Violent statements like "If that guy keeps looking to tear his head off" are appealing.

  43. We don't want you to say you love us if you don't mean it.

  44. We love it when you make eye contact with us while we talk.

  45. Most girls are afraid of losing our independence to guys (for some unknown reasons).

  46. If you ask a girl out directly, more likely than not, she will say yes to you. Even if she only has lukewarm feelings for you, because it will give her the chance to get to know you batter and get to like you even more.

  47. Most girls like it when guys ask them for advice.

  48. Girls like it when you tell us what you are thinking, even if you don't understand it yourself.

  49. After you have been dating for a while, realize that we really start to trust you, when you have a girlfriend who truly trusts you; you have a lot more responsibility. Privilege and control than you would think. Be careful with it, most guys would kill for that kind of power and it can be lost in a nanosecond.

  50. There is nothing wrong with being attentive and sensitive. However, this behavior can be carried too far, you don't have to hang on our every word or give in to our every whim. The thrill of the chase doesn't end after the first successful pick-up line. If you don't present us with some minor challenges, we are to get bored or worse, feel that you are creepy and obsessive.

  51. Variety is the spice of life. There are patterns under what your woman says she likes and doesn't like. It will benefit you far more to try and discern the nature these than to repeat everything she admits to enjoy until she no longer does.

  52. Most men think the chase ends once they have us, but truly it has only begun. You must work even harder to keep us then you do you earn us. We are not some trophy you can earn, put on a shelf and admire. You have to care for us like the living human being we are.

  53. When a girl says No it is NO, so stop asking.

  54. If someone flirts with you, it is a compliment. If you are not interested, accept it but don't flirt back.

  55. The woman in your life needs to hear how you feel about her often. Tell her now.

  56. All women are complicated and it is doubtful any man will ever fully be able to understand us. But we know that, so it is going to be ok.

  57. When a girl says she is sad, but she isn't crying it means she is crying in her heart.

  58. When she ignores you after you have done something wrong. It is best to give her some time to cool down before touching her heart with an apology.

  59. A girl can't find anything to hate about the guy she loves (which is why it is so hard for her to get over him after the relationship is over.

  60. If a girl loves a guy he will always be on her mind every minute of the day, even though she flirts with other guys.

  61. When the guy she likes smiles and stares deep into her eyes, she will melt.

  62. A girl likes to hear compliments, but usually not sure how to react to them.

  63. When a particular guy flirts with a girl very often, a girl would start thinking the guy likes her. So if you treat a girl just as a friend go easy on the smiles and stare ok?

  64. If a girl starts avoiding you after you reject her, leave her alone for a while. If you still treat her as a friend, talk to her.

  65. Girls enjoy talking about what they feel like music, poetry, drawing are ways of expressing themselves. (Which explains why most girls like writing journals)?

  66. Never tell a girl she is useless in anyway.

  67. Being too serious can turn a girl off.

  68. When the guy she likes calls her for the first time, the girl may act like uninterested during the call. But as soon as the hook, she will whoop with joy and immediately start telephoning her friends to spread the news.

  69. A smile means a lot to a girl.

  70. If you like a girl, try making friends with her first. Get her to know you.

  71. If a girl says she can't go out with you because she has to study leave but if she still calls you or expect a call from you stay.

  72. Don't try to guess a girl's feeling. Ask her.

  73. Hearing the words I love you is a great reassurance to a girl that she is beautiful.

  74. After a girl falls in love with a guy, she will wonder why she never noticed him before.

  75. If you need tips on how to flirt with a girl, read romance stories.

  76. When class pictures come out, a girl would first check who is standing next to her crush before actually looking at herself.

  77. A girl ex-crush will always be in her memory but the guy she loves now stays on her heart.

  78. Girls like having fun.

  79. A simple "Hi" can brighten a girl's day.

  80. A girl's best friends usually know best what she is feeling and going through.

  81. Girls hate it when a guy pays attention to them just to get close to the prettier friend.

  82. Love means devotion caring and happiness to a girl, in that order.

  83. Some girls care about looks, some care about brains, but all girls want a guy who will love and care for them.

  84. Girls want nothing more than to feel loved.

  85. If you really like her, make her yours before someone else does.

  86. Girls are like police. Once they get hold of all the evidence, they still want to hear the truth from you.

  87. Girls aren't games. You can't pause us and you can't unplug the system and erase all the memories. Don't play us.

  88. Girls want to start looking for guys with goals, good education and ambitions because 10 years time from now "swag" is not going to pay the bill.

  89. It is the good girls who keep diaries, the bad girls never have time for that.

  90. Girls we love for who they are, young men for who they promise to be.

  91. Girls play hard to get because boys don't value thing they get easily.

  92. The first thing one would notice about girls is that they are not what they pretend to be.

  93. Girls are highly unpredictable in terms of the behavior they would exhibit.

  94. Being emotional seems to be their birth right. Girls know how to control their emotions. However, it is very difficult to be at the receiving end of the emotional outburst of a girl.

  95. Girls often take decisions on the basics of emotions rather than going by logic.

  96. Cleanliness is one thing you can mark out when a girl is around. This trait is found in almost every girl.

  97. Caring attitude is found more in girls than guys, this behavior gets highlighted when a person close to them is suffering from illness or any other problem.

  98. Girls are more talkative than guys. It is therefore, necessary for girls to have a patient audience while they go on and on.

  99. Gossiping is the favorite pastime of girls. Venting out the built-up or nervous energy and emotional excesses is carried out though gossiping.

  100. Girls talk to each other like men to each other. But girls have an eye for details.

CHAPTER 3

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN

  1. Women understand colour. They seem to know what to wear all the time. A man just think red is nice, pink is nice, so why not have them together?

  2. Women know instinctively what is dangerous or not recommended for babies in their care. Men, generally speaking, do not.

  3. Men like to have all their stuff (DVDs, CDs, etc) on show to impress their mates. Women like to hide things in cupboards.

  4. Men require clear proof to be convinced while women are convinced by what they feel in their hearts.

  5. A loud voice of a man threatens a woman while the silence of a woman shakes the consciousness of a man.

  6. Men marry women with the hope they will never change while women marry men with the hope they will change.

  7. Men are like Bluetooth He is connected to you when you are nearby, but searches for other devices when you are away while women are like Wi-Fi. She sees all available devices but connects to the strongest one.

  8. A man's mood is more solid and he is easier to understand while a woman's hormones cause changing moods unless she can control them.

  9. A man desires to possess and impress while a woman wants to be discovered by a man and to look nice for him.

  10. A man does not want to be told what to do while a woman accepts being told what to do more easily.

  11. A man's ego is more vulnerable in some situation while a woman is more easily to lose her self-confidence.

  12. Man has a strong tendency to use sex purely to satisfy his sexual drive while a woman seldom has intercourse only for sexual gratification. But usually intercourse for her is an expression of her love and the gift of herself.

  13. Men are made to be givers while women are made to be receivers.

  14. A woman is an emotional feeler while a man is a logical thinker.

  15. Men think like a straight line while woman on the other hand, tend to think more like a grid.

  16. What a woman says is an expression of what she feels while what a man says is an expression of what he thinks.

  17. What a woman hears is received by her as an emotional experience while what a man hears is received by him merely as information.

  18. When it comes to memory, women tend to remember the details and men tend to remember the essence of the matter.

  19. Women don't usually forget things while men generally have to be reminded over and over.

  20. A woman has a need for conversation while a man has a need for recreational companionship.

  21. One of a woman's primary needs is affection while one of a man's primary needs is sex.

  22. A man is always sexually ready while a woman is not always ready for sexual relations.

  23. Women have a built in calendar gene - we remember birthdays, anniversaries and appointments effortlessly, Men usually don't.

  24. Ask a woman in the street how to get somewhere and she will direct via shops. Ask a man and it will be via pubs or bar.

  25. A multi-tasking gene is clearly only owned by women that's why they can talk over phone, cook and watch TV at the same time. Men are designed to have single concentration, so cannot even talk over the phone and watch TV, they have to stop one.

  26. Women can use sex to get what they want. Men cannot, as sex is what they want.

  27. Men are logically beings while women are vocal beings, that is while Men love what they see and women love what they hear.

  28. Women pick up on subtitle and then think about them. Men need things explained in capital letters before the message gets through.

  29. Men speak in sentences. Women speak in paragraphs.

  30. At weddings, women cry then get drunk. Men get drunk, and then cry.

  31. For men, 2am is time for sleep. For women, 2am is time for a discussion about where our relationship is going.

  32. If you told a woman that you had just returned from a trip to the surface of the Moon, she would show her interest by asking who you had gone with while men will ask you who you met there.

  33. When men want something they ask for it. When women want something they make a point distantly related to the subject and wait for a response.

  34. Women talk a lot without thinking. Men act a lot without thinking.

  35. Women can fake orgasm. Men can fake the whole relationship.

  36. Men use I or me when they should use we or us. Women use we or us when they should use I or me.

  37. Women drive on the stretch of road they can see. Men move through the landscape by car.

  38. Women eat curry if they like it. Men eat curry to prove they can.

  39. Men will do something and not think about the risks involved then be sorry after. Women will think about the risks involved beforehand.

  40. Women pee together. Men do not acknowledge, let alone speak, to each other when peeing.

  41. Women can smell old trainers at 100ft; men have to hold them to their nose.

  42. Men enjoy publicizing their faults on BBC websites; women enjoy publicizing men's faults on BBC websites.

  43. Men look at going down the gym as a physical activity, to women it is a social event.

  44. A woman would look at a sexy man and not be noticed. Men just stare.

  45. Women recall every outfit they have worn for the past two decades. Men cannot remember what they were wearing yesterday without looking on the floor next to the bed.

  46. If a man knows an acquaintance has given birth to a baby, he will remember the sex and name - if you are lucky. If a woman is told about a birth, she will remember names (first and middle), weight, and time, how long the labour took and whether medical intervention was required.

  47. Women have the ability to brain dump their entire day when they get home - men can only remember that it went OK.

  48. When men lie to women face to face, they get caught easily but women easily lie to men face to face without getting caught.

  49. Men start a sentence and women finish it for them.

  50. Men can watch an entire film without having to ask who is that, what does he do? But with women it is different.

  51. Women know what to do when someone starts to cry. Men tend to shuffle out of the room mumbling something about doing the grouting.

  52. Women could never invent weapons that kill, only ones that make you feel really bad and guilty until you surrender but men will.

  53. Men know that common house spiders are far less dangerous than scorpions but women see both as dangerous.

  54. Men refuse to pay more than £5.00 for a hair cut as it is not that important but women can pay over that for a hair do.

  55. Men have the capacity to sleep through most sounds, whether it is a baby crying, dog barking, or doorbell ringing but women cant.

  56. Men need a round of applause for emptying the dishwasher. Women think E on the petrol gauge means enough.

  57. Women can easily learn many languages but cannot easily find solutions to problems. Men cannot easily learn many languages but can easily find solution to problems.

  58. Men appreciate the importance of a 42 inch plasma screen. Women do not.

  59. A man's bathroom sink might have a maximum of five items, including soap and a razor, whereas a woman's bathroom will contain so many beauty products that the sink cannot possibly hold even a fraction of them.

  60. A man can fall asleep anywhere, under any circumstances, and sleep well. Women feel the need for not only the softest mattress on the market, but extravagant and voluminous piles of pillows, covering the bed until it no longer presents any sort of usably flat surface to sleep upon.

  61. Men have the uncanny ability to find nearly anything humorous, funny is funny but it is not the same with women.

  62. Men can be perfectly happy eating the same burger, sausage, or steak every night of the week. Women, on the other hand, would rather eat something that looks pretty than tastes like food, and this is partly the reason they are able to cope with eating so little.

  63. We look at a blue swatch and call it what it is; blue. Women look at the same swatch and declare it to be periwinkle blue.

  64. Jeans and a t-shirt, the quintessential male uniform. A man can create any number of combinations by simply changing his shirt. Women will require no less than three closets to hold their expansive wardrobes, and that's not including the separate shoe-racks that will hang from doors, and take space under the bed.

  65. Women mollycoddle children and animals to a ridiculous extent. Kids are babied to the point that they aren't allowed to get dirty, and dogs are ripped from their nobility and turned into dolls. Men, on the other hand, treat dogs as friends, cats as worthy adversaries, and children as miniature humans who should be held accountable for their own actions.

  66. Every piece of equipment on or about an automobile is known to women as a thingy. As for men, these things come a bit more naturally to them.

  67. Men will instinctively begin figuring out how equipment works, what it does, whereas women tend to require instruction, from a man, who preferably wears a name tag.

  68. Men generally handle bad situations by reacting in a proactive manner, feeling compelled to find a solution. Women almost invariably have the well-known panic reaction.

  69. Men will communicate quickly and efficiently, with as little hassle as possible. Women feel the need to spend roughly one third of their waking hours talking, whether they're talking on the phone, or in person, women just plain talk too much.

  70. Men tend to be on time to planned events. Women behave the exact polar opposite, they're simply always late.

  71. If a man have a lot of problems, his brain clearly classifies the problems and puts them in individual rooms in the brain and then finds the solution one by one. If a woman has a lot of problems, her brain cannot classify the problems. She wants someone to hear that. After telling someone she goes to bed and not worry about the problem been solved or not.

  72. Men want status, success, solutions, big process etc but women want relationship, friends, family etc.

  73. If women are unhappy on their relationship, they do not concentrate at their workplace. If men are unhappy on their relationship, they do not concentrate on the relationship.

  74. Women use indirect language in their speech. But men use direct language.

  75. Women and cats will do as they please, and men and dogs should relax and get used to the idea.

  76. When a man goes on a date he wonders if he is going to get lucky. A woman already knows.

  77. A man can make you believe that he loves you when he doesn't. A woman can make you believe that she doesn't love you when she really does.

  78. Women want one man to fulfill their every need. Men want every woman to fulfill their one need.

  79. Men will spend 2 bucks on a 1 buck item that they desperately need. Women will spend 1 buck on a 2 buck item that they don't need at all.

  80. Women often feel loved when talking face to face with their partner; men, on the other hand, often feel emotionally close when they work, play, or talk side by side.

  81. Men love blue while women love pink, Mother Nature has made it so.

  82. When a guy gets jealous, it is actually kinda cute. When girls get jealous, world war III is about to start.

  83. A man wants to be a woman's first love; a woman wants to be his last.

  84. When women are depressed they either eat or go shopping. Men invade another country.

  85. Women tend to take things to heart; men tend to take things impersonally.

  86. In material things, women tend to look at the goals; men want to know how to get there.

  87. In spiritual or in tangible things, the opposite is true. Men look at the goals; women want to know how to get there.

  88. Women are like computers; their minds keep processing in the background until a problem is solved. Men are like filing cabinets, they take problems, put them in the file and close the drawer.

  89. A woman's home is an extension of her personality while a man's job is an extension of his personality.

  90. Women have a great need for security and roots while men can be nomadic.

  91. Women tend to be guilt-prone while men tend to be resentful.

  92. Women are constantly changing while men level off and stay the same.

  93. Women tend to become involved with things more easily and more quickly while men tend to stand back and evaluate.

  94. A man needs respect while a woman needs love.

  95. Men are virile, tending to external things, a man longs to use his muscles to the full extent while a woman is more imaginative, tending to internal things, things of the heart.

  96. Men are more conscious of the national effort while women are conscious of little things and caring for individuals.

  97. Men are more ready to provide for the future of their children while women are more ready to recognize artistic potential in their children.

  98. Men are inventive, especially regarding machinery, transport and scientific progress while women desire to promote beauty in surroundings, to see growth, gardens and peace etc.

  99. Woman tend to get more interested in love making as they get older while men tend to require it less frequently.

  100. Women fake smiles while men fake feelings.

  101. Women want a lot of things from one man while men want one thing from a lot of women.

CHAPTER 4

ROMANTIC GESTURES

  1. If your partner is going way for a few days, tell her that you are worried about her so you have organized a bodyguard to look after her. Then give her a small teddy bear.

  2. Buy a stylish hand mirror and give it to your partner as a gift. Include a card in the box saying "In this mirror you will see the image of the most beautiful woman in the world.

  3. Have flowers delivered to your partner's work place. She will not only enjoy the flowers but will also receive comments and attention from her office mates which will add to her enjoyment.

  4. Buy a packet of glow in the dark stars and stick the stars on the roof above your bed to spell out a message such as "I Love You" when the lights go down, your message will be revealed.

  5. Leave a long stem rose where your partner will find it with a note on it saying: "Thank you for coming into my life".

  6. When your spouse has had a really long hard day, run a hot bath for her. Pour some fragrant bath oil into the tub bad gently bathe her from head to toe. Carry her into the bedroom. Gently towel her dry and tuck her into a freshly made bed with a kiss on the forehead.

  7. Record a love message on your partner's phone. Set alarm for a time when you are not around them with a message saying "Check your voice recorder".

  8. Don't let your woman walk around the house for a few hours. Carry her around no matter where she wants to go.

  9. Look into the eyes of your partner and say "I Love You". Say it like you mean it without trying to be funny or sounding corny.

  10. Dedicate a song and sing it out in a bar or any open place for your partner. But if you are shy sing it over the phone.

  11. If your partner is not enjoying their food at a restaurant, switch plates and give them your better meal.

  12. Take a picture of yourself with your partner's clothes and text it to the person.

  13. Give him a shave when he is lazy. Help her brush her hair when she is in a hurry.

  14. Be your partner's maid for a day. Treat your partner like a royalty for a day or even a few hours.

  15. If you shower first in the morning: steam up the bathroom and write a message such as "Alex loves Chidinma" on the mirror for your partner to read when she uses the bathroom. This also works on car windows when it is cold.

  16. Create some love coupons that your partner can exchange for romantic favours. For example you could have a coupon that reads: This coupon entitles the bearer to one foot massage. Used by 07/03/2045. Use a date many years in the future if you want to suggest that you and your partner will always be together.

  17. On a warm summer's night, organize a backyard picnic. Spread a picnic blanket on the ground and get together some sacks, chocolates and champagne. Lie down on the blanket with your partner and gaze up at the stars together.

  18. When your partner is having a shower or bath, take her towel and place it in the dryer to make it really warm and then wrap her up in it when she is done.

  19. When you and your partner are going somewhere special, get a camera, buy a new roll of film and wait for her to come out of the house. When she appears, act like a professional photographer and go wild taking pictures of her with the flash. While you are taking photos, bombard her with questions as though she was a famous actress and you are trying to get a scoop for the magazine you represent. Not only is this fun but you will also get some great photos to look back on together.

  20. Fill the trunk of your car with helium balloons, drive to a romantic spot in the country to go for a walk. The ideal spot is somewhere up high with a clear view of the surrounding countryside. Get out of the car and act as though you are about to set off for your walk. Make sure your partner is closer to the car than you and then throw her the keys and ask if she can get your jacket from the trunk while you tie your shoelace. When she opens the boot the balloons will be released. You can also place a sign saying "I Love You" on the inside of the trunk so that it will be revealed when the trunk opens.

  21. Compliment your partner in public. If you are talking in a group and it is appropriate to the conversation say something like, "Kate makes the most incredible roast". Squeeze her hand while you are talking to her.

  22. Develop a video time capsule. Start with the two of you sitting together on a couch introducing the video. Say something like, "It is currently 14th 2009. We have decided to make this video so that we can watch it together on our 25th wedding anniversary". Then have a section where you talk to the camera by yourself, telling the camera how you feel about your partner and why you love her. Get her to do the same thing. When you are done, place the video in a bank vault and on your 25th wedding anniversary you will be able to look back in time and reminisce about everything that you have shared.

  23. Arrange a special day off from work. Start with breakfast, go for a walk in the park, go shopping, have afternoon tea in a cozy café and finish off with a romantic dinner.

  24. On Thursday, ask your partner to pack a bag for the weekend. Tell her she will need causal clothes and walking shoes but don't tell her what you have got planned. Pick her up after work on Friday and drive to a romantic bed and breakfast for a romantic week of relaxation.

  25. When your partner is sitting at a table or desk, come up behind him or her and give her a back, shoulder and head massage. Finish with a gentle kiss on the cheek.

  26. Give your partner a magic box. Every month, place a new small gift in the box for her/him to discover.

  27. Clasp hands when you are crossing a street or walking through a crowd, wrap hands around your partner when you are standing close to each other and don't stand less than a feet from your partner when you guys are talking to each other.

  28. Write little love notes and slip it into your lovers pocket or bag even if it is just a little "I Love You" or even a little lipstick mark on a piece of paper will bring the same smile.

  29. Watch a romantic movie together once in a month. Switch off your phones, cuddle up for the evening and don't move out of each other's sight.

  30. Give each other inexpensive gifts every now and then. It could be chocolates, flowers, a game CD etc.

CHAPTER 5

BODY LANGUAGES

  1. When two people's eye contact exceeds 30 to 60 percent of the time range, they are likely either in love or are getting ready to fight.

  2. If a person is asked questions that make him uncomfortable or uncertain of how to answer, He will tend to avert his gaze.

  3. If an individual is focused on the thing he is looking at, his eyes will be alert. This means he is thinking about or analyzing the thing.

  4. If a person has a distant look in his eyes and does not seen mentally present, chances are he is daydreaming and is not aware of what is in front of him.

  5. During a conversation, looking down can be a signal of submission or can indicate that a person feels guilty about what is been said.

  6. During a conversation, when a person looks up, he/she is very likely to be thinking or trying to remember something.

  7. During a conversation, if an individual is looking sideways be aware she is probably annoyed. It is also an attempt to escape the conversation or look at a distraction.

  8. Dilation of the pupil occurs during times of arousal i.e. when someone is attracted to someone or someone.

  9. Contraction of the pupil occurs when someone is angry or dubious and gives you that "laser look".

  10. If a person blinks more rapidly than normal, he or she is probably lying.

  11. A slow blink rate may mean the person is intent on processing what is being said or conversely, that she is simply not paying attention.

  12. Drooping eyelids can mean several things, so use the situation to best decide whether the person is tired, bored, depressed, lazy or flirting.

  13. Wide-open eyes usually mean that a person is interested and paying attention, although if the eyes are too wide-open, the individual is probably either surprised or afraid.

  14. When not caused by a bright light, squinting indicates that the person either is evaluating what is been said or is uncertain. When paired with a broad smile, squinting can also be a sign that a person feels joyful and merry.

  15. When someone arches or raises one eye brow only, it is usually deliberate and is a way of expressing disbelief as if he is saying really? Or Are you sure you mean that?

  16. Two raised eyebrows can be a sign of surprise and are some times used to show that a question is being asked.

  17. When a person's eyebrows are furrowed – pulled together in the middle to form a furrow or wrinkle. This can indicate deep concentration, anxiety, anger or frustration.

  18. If a person flares her nostrils for example prepare yourself for a fight.

  19. The widening of the nostrils is the body's way of taking in more oxygen to ready itself for a confrontation.

  20. Wrinkling of the nose sign- files disgust with something external, such as a statement made by another person. It can also mean that the individual is pondering something and is not satisfied with her own ideas.

  21. A simple smile performed with closed lips is flashed primarily by someone to acknowledge to those around him/her that he/she is well or pleased by a situation.

  22. An upper smile when the top incisors are exposed is quite often used as a greeting between friends, family members and well likes coworkers or business acquaintances.

  23. A broad smile is commonly seen during and associated with happiness and joy. Both the upper and lower incisors are exposed.

  24. Oblong smile, the lips are drawn back from both the upper and lower teeth, creating an oblong shape and people tend to use it when they feel they must be polite but are not experiencing the lightheartedness and joy that accompanies a sincere smile.

  25. Pont – the deliberate protrusion of the upper lips is often used to show displeasure, disappointment or frustration but this same expression can also reveal sexual interest.

  26. A pursed lip where the upper and lower lips pressed together is usually a sign of controlled anger.

  27. A pursed lip where the lips are squeezed together from all sides, making the mouth seem smaller, the person is trying to suppress his annoyance or attempting retrain from comment.

  28. Licking the lips is generally seen as a provocative, sexual signal.

  29. Biting the lips is usually a sign that someone is anxious, uncomfortable or embarrassed and it also indicates that the person is lost in thought.

  30. Tightening the jaws muscles is much like making a fist with the face and indicates controlled anger.

  31. Clenching the teeth is also a sign that someone is trying to stay in control despite feeling of resentment or irritation.

  32. A firm, dry handshake is generally regarded as an indication that someone is confidence and in control.

  33. A weak handshake may be seen as signaling a weak personality.

  34. A sweaty palm may be interpreted as a sign of nervousness.

  35. Open palm indicates openness and sincerity.

  36. Hands behind the back indicate guilty or uncertain about something.

  37. One outstretched palm indicates that something is expected.

  38. Clenched hands show that a person is trying to suppress strong emotions usually anger.

  39. Clenched fist signifies determination, anger and possible hostile action and this gesture may cause the other person to clench his fist as well, which could escalate into a heated argument or fight.

  40. If a person is twisting and squeezing her hands together, she is probably anxious.

  41. Steeping is a gesture in which a person, with fingers pointing upwards, touches the fingertips of both hands together. It is used consciously to communicate great security and self-confidence.

  42. Finger pointing coupled with a raised voice can lead to a serious argument and it is also a defense provoking gesture.

  43. Touching something or someone is a sign of pride, ownership, interest, love, understanding, assurance etc. very strong aspects of a love relationship are fundamentally based on touching.

  44. When shoulders are slumped forward, possibly with a bowed head suggest that the person is defeated, unhappy or perhaps simply fatigued.

  45. The classic shrugging (raising and lowering) of the shoulders means "I don't know". Sometimes, this is accompanied by raised eyebrows.

  46. People who walk rapidly and swing their arms freely tend to be goal-oriented and in pursuit of something.

  47. When shoulders are held low and straight, without tension, they indicate that the individual is relaxed and self-confident.

  48. People who habitually walk with their hands in their pockets, regardless of the weather, tend to be critical and secretive and it is also a sign of dejection.

  49. A person who walks rapidly with both hands on his hips is usually in a hurry to reach his goal in the shortest time possible.

  50. Someone who is in the process of making a major decision has a slow pace and may clasp his hands behind his back, pausing occasionally to think.

  51. An individual who is self-satisfied and arrogant is likely to hold his head high and exaggerate the swinging motion of his arms.

  52. Stroking the chin or bread is a "let me consider" gesture usually appears when a person is in the process of making a decision.

  53. When a person gets up and begins pacing around the room, this is a strong indication that he is evaluating what has been said.

  54. When a person pinches the bridge of his nose, she is often communicating great thought and concern about a decision being made and it is also indicate serious inner doubt.

  55. When eye glasses are removed and placed on the tip between or near the lips or when a person takes off his glasses and slowly and deliberately cleans the lenses. This indicated that the person is taking time to listen and evaluate what is been said or to delay their decisions and think.

  56. Avoiding eye contacts and bringing the left hand to the face are gestures that reveal that someone is being secretive or insincere.

  57. A person will generally touch his nose when he is not sure if he should tell you something, or when he doubts a statement that was made.

  58. Rubbing behind or beside the ear with the index finger and rubbing the eye are both gestures that indicates doubts.

  59. The hands-on-hips gestures is done by placing both hands on the hips but women are more likely than men to place only one hand on a hip. It is a sign of readiness.

  60. Placing a pen or pencil in one's mouth and perhaps biting it is a reassurance gesture.

  61. Bringing hands to throat or fingering a necklace is a gesture that shows that someone is uncomfortable with what is been said to her.

  62. When someone runs his finger around collar of his shirt which is called "Hot-under-the-collar" gesture is also a sign of frustration.

  63. Turing up one's nose at something or someone is a clear indication of dislike and rejection.

  64. Erect standing with hands clasped behind the back is a common gesture of confidence and authority.

  65. Kicking the ground and rubbing the back of one's neck with head bowed are signs of frustration.

  66. When someone is feeling satisfied and in control, it is often shown in the way he leans back, hands clasped behind his head and legs crossed in the figure four position.

  67. An indication that someone is feeling dejected is shown in the way he leans forward, shoulders slumped and arms limply supported at the knees.

  68. When a person clears his throat just before speaking, or clears his throat mid-sentence; he is demonstrating anxiety and tension.

  69. A sure-fire nonverbal sign of nervousness is fidgeting or squirming in a chair.

  70. A person who slowly rubs her hand against fabric, such as clothing or handkerchief is nonverbally illustrating anxiety, frustration, anger, nervousness or uncertainly over a stressful situation.

  71. A person may cover her mouth after saying something she wishes she had not said, almost as if she were attempting to shut off the flow of words that have already been spoken.

  72. When someone is practicing self-control while standing or walking, he is likely to clasp both hands behind his back, with one hand clenched tightly while the other grips his wrist or arm.

  73. When a person places either hand on the speaker's forearm, bicep or shoulder, he is using a more aggressive gesture to immediately interrupt the speaker.

  74. When someone is practicing self-control while sitting, he will often look at his ankles, and may also clench his hands on the arm rest of the chair.

  75. A very angry, frustrated person who is unable to openly express his feelings may be observed scratching his head and/or rubbing his necklace in an attempt to maintain self-control.

  76. Monotonous rhythmic drumming of the fingers on the tabletop, or the repeated clicking of a pen is a sure sign of boredom.

  77. The most obvious sign that someone is bored – whether he is listing to someone talk or watching a presentation occurs when he rests his head on his hand and his eyelids become droopy.

  78. A common sign of acceptance is the hand-to-chest gesture that reveals a person's agreement with what someone else is saying, doing or planning.

  79. Touching someone around the area of the shoulders and arms is an indication of acceptance and are often used between people who are known, liked and loved.

  80. Unless the hands are cold due to the weather or clammy due to nervousness, the motion of rubbing one's palms together is a clear gesture of expectation.

  81. Another gesture of expectancy is rubbing the thumb and index finger together in anticipation of receiving something such as money of a gift.

  82. Prolonged eye contact, pupil dilation, broad smiles, preening motions such as smoothing the hair or clothes, tilting the head, closing the distance, crossing and uncrossing the legs, absently caressing one's own arms or legs, and light touching make up a complete arrays of "I am attracted to you" gestures.

  83. Gestures sure as holding the lapels of one's jacket may convey a sense of self-importance.

  84. Humor makes a listener more receptive to what the speaker has to say.

  85. When audience start to glance at their watches, at the ceiling or at each other, and often position their bodies so that they are pointed to the direction of an exist. It means they are bored or no longer interested.

  86. If a woman crosses her legs while in conversation, she is probably not interested in you.

  87. Sitting up straight can make a guy feel more powerful and increase his self – confidence, as well as his pain tolerance.

  88. The lowering of the eyes can convey fear, guilt or submission.

  89. Lowered eyebrows and squinted eyes illustrate an attempt at understanding what is being said or going on.

  90. If you look directly into another person's eyes you are displaying self-assurance.

  91. Wide eyes show more of interest in a subject or person.

  92. If you are irritated with a comment made by another during a conversation, a common movement is to take a quick glance sideways.

  93. Staring at someone can be an aggressive gesture or suggest that the one staring feels dominant.

  94. Looking directly upwards can indicate that one is thinking.

  95. Eye contact is normally broken if someone feels insulted by another.

  96. The muscles in the upper part of the face tend to move when someone is lying.

  97. Deep breath is a sign of relief or worry.

  98. Nodding of your head is a sign of acceptance or agreement.

CHAPTER 6

  1. 100 WAYS TO LOVE YOUR WIFE AND GIRLFRIEND RIGHTLY

  2. Start and end each day by holding hands and praying together with your wife.

  3. Pray for her every day and make it a point to pray with her when she is troubled.

  4. Communicate with her instead of talking AT her or shutting her out emotionally.

  5. Talk to her respectfully without demeaning her or hurting her feelings.

  6. Compliment her for the giftedness you see in her. Be specific.

  7. Show interest in her friends and give her time to be with them.

  8. Do something active together to lift her spirit even taking a walk hand-in-hand.

  9. Express to her that you need and value her.

  10. Show enthusiasm for the things that she's excited about let your actions show it.

  11. Find something that makes you laugh together.

  12. Put your arms around her when she needs comfort, holding her silently.

  13. Surprise her by doing something you think she would want done before she asks.

  14. Try not to make sudden changes without discussing them with her first.

  15. Show interest in that which she values as important in her life.

  16. Allow your wife to teach you things without being defensive.

  17. When you feel you must correct her, be gentle speak the truth in LOVE.

  18. Let go of the small stuff. We all have annoying habits and preferences that are different from our spouse's.

  19. Show her that she matters more to you than any one you could be with, that threatens her security in your marriage.

  20. Be a good listener. Show her you value what she says.

  21. Plan a mini-honeymoon, where the two of you can spend quality time together.

  22. Go shopping with her and don't sigh or look at what time it is even once.

  23. Take her out to breakfast or make her breakfast (cleaning up afterward).

  24. Make the time to set specific goals with her to achieve together for each year.

  25. Give her grace when she offends you and forgive (even as you want to be forgiven).

  26. Find ways to help her know you are her partner in all areas life.

  27. Be polite, courteous, and mannerly with her—not taking her for granted.

  28. Exhibit humility, admit your mistakes, and ask for forgiveness. She'll appreciate that!

  29. Defend her to others—especially to your family.

  30. Don't belittle her intelligence.

  31. Scratch her back; rub her feet, or her rub her neck—whatever she'd prefer.

  32. Get up in the middle of the night (let her stay in bed) to take care of your upset child.

  33. Be especially helpful when she is not feeling well.

  34. When she asks how your day went, don't just say "fine" —actually give her details.

  35. Thank God for her by name when the two of you are praying together.

  36. Try not to argue over money. Peacefully discuss future expenditures instead.

  37. Don't embarrass her by arguing with her in front of others.

  38. Lead your family in their spiritual relationship with God. This is important to her.

  39. Make eye contact when she is talking to you and when you are talking with her.

  40. Show her that you prefer her to others— give her your attention whenever possible.

  41. Relate what happened at work or whatever you did apart from her.

  42. Keep away from anything that gives you sexual gratification, other than your wife.

  43. Be helpful, both before and during the time you have visitors in your home. (If you're not sure of what to do, ask your wife "What can I do, that would help the most?")

  44. Brag about her to others, both in front of her and when she is not with you.

  45. Surprise her from time-to-time with a card and flowers or a little gift.

  46. Remember to tell her or call her as soon as you know you are going to be late.

  47. Give her your undivided attention when she wants to talk.

  48. Guard your tongue from saying "unwholesome words" or down-grading her.

  49. Refuse to compare her unfavorably with others.

  50. Encourage her to relax in some way while you clean up after dinner.

  51. Be an involved partner in helping with the children and spending time together.

  52. Maintain good grooming habits so you look and smell good. It shows you care.

  53. Be supportive. Help her to finish her education and goals that are important to her.

  54. View and treat her as if God put a sign over her that said, "Make me feel special."

  55. Run errands without complaining.

  56. Give her the love gift of being thoughtful and considerate to her relatives.

  57. Don't negatively compare her relatives with yours.

  58. Sit close to her —even when you are just watching television.

  59. Be verbally supportive and honor her in front of the children.

  60. Do not making plans without her agreeing with them (unless it's a surprise).

  61. Pro-actively do things that makes her feel cherished as a woman and as a wife.

  62. Keep her trust at all costs. Leave no gray area when it comes to other female relationships, money and your word.

  63. Ask for a list of 3 things she'd like done in the home.

  64. Ask her and then listen to what makes her fearful and insecure (without judging).

  65. Pray about and act upon what you can do to alleviate those fears.

  66. Find out what her sexual needs are (and then try to fulfill them).

  67. Surprise her with a 15 second kiss (with no expectations to go any further).

  68. Put effort in to keep yourself in good shape so she's especially proud to be with you.

  69. Make it a point to write a mission statement together for your marriage and family.

  70. Take the time to touch every day—even if it's only for a minute or two.

  71. Be polite and kind. (Often we're kinder to strangers than we are to our spouse.)

  72. Be sensitive enough to ask her if you offend or hurt her sexually in any way.

  73. Go out of your way to help her feel valued over everyone else.

  74. Consider her as your marital partner in how you spend money.

  75. You dated your wife before marriage, and fell in love. Date her now to STAY in love.

  76. Be careful to choose your words, especially when angry.

  77. Show affection for her in front of friends.

  78. Make sure your children speak to her and treat her in respectful ways.

  79. Make a point of honoring anniversaries, birthdays, and other special occasions.

  80. Make sure she has money to spend any way she would choose.

  81. Hold her close and verbally express your love when she is hurt or discouraged.

  82. Surprise her by giving her a special gift from time to time.

  83. Share the responsibilities around the house (without looking for special recognition).

  84. Don't tease and belittle her, saying "I was just joking" when she doesn't find it funny.

  85. Allow her to express herself freely, without fear of being called illogical or dumb.

  86. Don't forget to hold her hand in public like you used to when you dated her.

  87. Don't criticize her in front of others— keeping her dignity in tact.

  88. Don't focus on the physical features of another woman (It dishonors your wife).

  89. Be sensitive to her needs looking for ways to bless her.

  90. Let her know you want to spend special time with her and the children.

  91. Fix dinner for her sometimes.

  92. Be sympathetic when she's sick and help her however you can.

  93. Let her sleep in sometimes and you get the children ready for the day.

  94. Honor her by not disagreeing with her in front of the children.

  95. Don't ignore the small things that bother her and let them build into bigger issues.

  96. Surprise her by doing some things around the house that she's wanted done.

  97. Tell her (and show her) you love her often.

  98. Call, email or text her when you're apart so she knows you are thinking of her.

  99. Surprise her by suggesting a marriage seminar or weekend retreat you can attend together.

  100. Express your love and appreciation for her in a love note which you give to her.

  101. Show her affection without sexual intentions.

CHAPTER 7

100 WAYS TO LOVE YOUR HUSBAND OR BOYFRIEND RIGHTLY

  1. Communicate with him; never close him out.

  2. Regard him as important...and let him know he's important.

  3. Do everything you can to understand his feelings.

  4. Be interested in his friends...and occasionally give him time with them.

  5. Ask his opinion frequently.

  6. Value what he says.

  7. Let him feel your approval and affections.

  8. Protect his dignity on a daily basis.

  9. Be tender with him, realizing he has feelings also.

  10. Foster an atmosphere of laughter in your home, look for ways to laugh together.

  11. Avoid sudden major changes without discussion and giving him time to adjust.

  12. Date each other. And when you go out together on a date, don't bring up problems.

  13. Focus on what he's doing right, instead of focusing on the negatives.

  14. Be interested in what he feels is important in life.

  15. Correct him gently and in private.

  16. Allow him to teach you without putting up your defenses.

  17. Make special time available to him.

  18. Be trustworthy.

  19. Compliment him often.

  20. Be creative when you express your love, either in words or in actions.

  21. Have specific family goals for each year.

  22. Don't over commit yourself. Leave time for him.

  23. Be forgiving when he offends you.

  24. Show him you need him.

  25. Accept him the way he is; discover his uniqueness as special.

  26. Admit your mistakes; don't be afraid to be humble...peel away your pride.

  27. Defend him to others remembering that love protects... (1 Corinthians 13:7).

  28. Allow your husband to fail...& discuss what went wrong after comforting him.

  29. Rub his feet or neck after a hard day.

  30. Take time for the two of you to sit & talk calmly (schedule it when necessary).

  31. Go on romantic outings.

  32. Write him a letter occasionally, telling him how much you love him.

  33. Surprise him with a fun gift of some kind.

  34. Express how much you appreciate him.

  35. Tell him how proud you are of him.

  36. Give advice in a loving way when he asks for it.

  37. Help your husband to be the Spiritual Head of the household.

  38. Prefer him over others...make the choice to "choose him".

  39. Don't expect him to do projects beyond his capabilities. All men aren't experts.

  40. Pray for him to enjoy God's best in life.

  41. Take the time to notice what he has done for you and the family.

  42. Brag about him to other people behind his back.

  43. Share you thoughts & feelings with him.

  44. Tell him about your day, if he's interested.

  45. Take time to see how he spends his day.

  46. Give him time to unwind when he comes home from work...plus, time with the children.

  47. Get up with him, even when he has early morning meetings & pray together.

  48. Be his "help-mate" in whatever ways you sense he needs it.

  49. Let him retreat to his "cave" to recuperate whenever it's possible.

  50. Be a student of your husband's ways so you can love him, as he really needs you to.

  51. When your husband is in a bad mood...give him quiet time to recover.

  52. Help him to finish his goals- hobbies or education.

  53. Treat him as if God has stamped on his forehead: "Handle with Care".

  54. Get rid of habits that annoy him.

  55. Be kind & thoughtful to his relatives. Try not to make him choose between them and you.

  56. Don't compare his relatives with yours in a negative way.

  57. Thank him for things he's done around the house; it'll mean a lot to him.

  58. Don't expect credit for all you do for him & the household...do it as "unto the Lord".

  59. Make sure he understands everything important that you're planning to do.

  60. Do little things for him...an unexpected kiss, coffee in bed...etc.

  61. Don't belittle his intelligence or be cynical in your words to him.

  62. Realize that men rejuvenate themselves by focusing on things they can solve.

  63. Sometimes when he has a day off, let him enjoy it without having to "work" at home.

  64. Get to the point in your discussions with him. Spare him details he may not want.

  65. Discover his sexual needs.

  66. Ask if he wants to discuss how you can meet his sexual needs.

  67. Wink at him from across the room when you're out at a group function.

  68. Plan your future together.

  69. Don't quarrel over words.

  70. Practice common courtesies with your husband.

  71. When something goes wrong, don't assess blame, focus on how to do better.

  72. NEVER say, "I told you so."

  73. Don't argue over money. Peacefully discuss future expenditures.

  74. Take him out on dates now & then...pre-plan ahead of time.

  75. Hold his hand in public.

  76. Snuggle up close to him at times at home & in public.

  77. Tell him you love him often.

  78. Put love notes in his pockets and briefcase.

  79. Sit with him while he's watching television- even if the program doesn't interest you.

  80. Give him the benefit of the doubt & say what's on your mind. Men don't read minds.

  81. Give him time with his family alone from time to time.

  82. Always check with him before you throw away his "important" papers.

  83. Keep yourself in shape.

  84. Let him express himself freely, without fear of being called stupid or illogical.

  85. Carefully choose your words, especially when angry.

  86. Don't criticize him in front of others.

  87. Visit his childhood home.

  88. When you're angry with him, express it or deal with it, NO silent treatment

  89. Pray for him.

  90. Make him homemade soup when he's sick.

  91. Look your best - dress to honor him & make him proud to be seen with you.

  92. Support him when a relative discredits him.

  93. Don't disagree with him in front of the children.

  94. Take him for a weekend get-away without the children.

  95. Do the "little things" he needs from time to time.

  96. Start the day by praying together before you both get up.

  97. Give him coupons to redeem- maybe for a back scratch or a shoulder rub.

  98. Buy him a gift certificate to his favorite lunch spot & put it in his wallet.

  99. Hide notes for him around the house where only he will find them.

  100. Thank him for just being himself.

CHAPTER 8

50 THINGS TO YOU SHOULD DO BEFORE YOU DIE.

  1. Travel all around the world and visit all the Wonders of the World.

  2. Learn a new language.

  3. Try out a new profession in a different field.

  4. Achieve your ideal weight.

  5. Take up a new sport.

  6. Start your own business doing something you love.

  7. Achieve financial abundance with your passion.

  8. Connect with all your teachers from your past schools – college, high school, and junior high, all of it. Let them know how they have shaped your life.

  9. Identify someone who has inspired you the most in your life. Let him/her know how much he/she has inspired you.

  10. Be a mentor to someone.

  11. Climb a mountain.

  12. Perform a kind deed to at least 5 strangers without expecting anything in return.

  13. Write a book on something that means a lot to you.

  14. Sing your favorite song to an audience.

  15. Offer your service to a humanitarian cause.

  16. Make friends with at least 5 strangers on the street.

  17. Plant your own tree and watch it grow

  18. Own a pet (or more if you desire!): dog, cat, rabbit, hamster, tortoise, fish, snake, frog, etc

  19. Do public speaking in front of 10,000 people.

  20. Throw a mega party.

  21. Get a complete makeover (change everything, from your hair style, hair color, image, clothes) and get a different look: one which you would never have thought of trying!

  22. Go for future education in a different specialization.

  23. Play a (new) musical instrument: Piano, Violin, Harmonica, Flute, Guitar, Drum, and Trumpet.

  24. Take up dancing: Salsa, Line dance, Tap dance, Tango, Ballroom dancing, etc

  25. Live in a different country for at least 6 months.

  26. Act in a film (self production or otherwise).

  27. Get featured on TV/radio/print/newspapers for an achievement you are proud of.

  28. Bake a cake for someone special.

  29. Go deep into the heart of Mother Nature. Go trekking in a rainforest; Camp out in the wilds; Walk in a valley; Visit a waterfall; Swim in an ocean; Walk in a valley

  30. See snow (if you haven't before).

  31. Read a book on a subject you'd never have thought of reading.

  32. If you are a non-vegetarian, try out vegetarianism for 21 days and experience it for yourself.

  33. Conquer your biggest fear.

  34. Start a social movement on a cause you believe in.

  35. Watch cherry blossoms in Japan.

  36. Get closure on all your hurt, grievances and unhappiness of the past.

  37. Bury the hatchet with all the enemies / people you had conflict with, in the past or now.

  38. Do something completely crazy and out of character.

  39. Fly first class.

  40. Fly in a helicopter

  41. Have dinner with someone you had only dreamed of meeting.

  42. Tell your parents (and siblings too if you have them) that you love them.

  43. Ride a roller coaster89. Go on a cruise in the sea

  44. Try out front-line customer service jobs such being a waiter/waitress for a month just for the experience

  45. Fall in love

  46. Be in love!

  47. Visit a castle in England.

  48. Change the world.

  49. Learn sign language

  50. See the Mona Lisa in Louvre (Paris)

CHAPTER 9

ADVICE FOR THE MEN ONLY

One evening my father pulled me aside and said "Son, there are few axioms I have put together over the years of dealing with women and they have stood the test of time over and over again. If you adhere to these, then you will be years ahead of your peers and it will save you a ton of bullshit experiences with women, that could have been avoided. It will help steer your interactions with women in the right direction and keep you from losing your sanity".

  1. Who you marry will be the most important decision you ever make in life. Better make sure she's up for the job.

  2. Never get married or get tied down with a woman who you're settling for. You will be miserable. She will be miserable. And life is too damn short to spend it with a woman low in caliber, personality and desire to suck your rooster dry every day.

  3. Believe a woman the first time she SHOWS you who she is. Don't allow your emotions to blind you to her flaws and shortcomings.

  4. Women are not the enemy. They are merely following their inherent nature. Learn how to handle them and you will be rewarded with their positive attributes. Flail about blindly and be cursed with their negative attributes.

  5. Women are led by their emotions. Therefore, learn to use their emotions to your favor. Become the puppet master.

  6. Always lead a woman in the relationship. If you don't know how, then learn how.

  7. Women are just more sexual, if not more than men. They crave depravity. Do not be fooled.

  8. Be ready to walk away from the relationship at any time for any reason. If she acts up, be ready to walk. If you stay you will lose a small piece of self-respect, until eventually you won't even know who you are anymore.

  9. What is unsaid when communicating with a woman, is oftentimes more powerful than what is said.

  10. Buying gifts, groveling, begging and changing for a girl will never keep her around. You'll only intensify her disdain for you and speed up her hunt for an alpha rooster.

  11. Never fully trust a woman. It's not in their nature to be trustworthy. Self-preserve by only allowing for 60% of your trust given after a full and long courtship of at least 2 years.

  12. Never get married before 30 years and always marry a younger woman. No exceptions.

  13. The moment you make a woman "your life", is the moment she's preparing to walk out of yours.

  14. Watch what a girl DOES, not what she SAYS.

  15. If a girl dumps you, never take her back. She will never respect you the same and the relationship is doomed to fail.

  16. Always let her say "I love you" first. She'll love you more for your self-control.

  17. The more money you get, the more you will attract women who are attracted to resources. Learn to put on a 'Humble Front' at first in order to screen the gold diggers out.

  18. Never put aside your personal goals and dreams in order to please a woman. You won't please her and you will be miserable.

  19. Always Bleep her like it's your last time before you go to prison.

  20. Lastly, holding his both ears he said "Never hit a woman. No excuses! It is wrong from all angles".

CHAPTER 10

ADVICE FOR PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT

  1. Make friends with successful people and occasionally buy them gift and surprise them with lunch because successful people always give and hardly get, so when you give them, they value the gift a lot.

  2. Get a mentor and follow his instructions and respect the relationship. Never beg your mentor for money or disrespect his or her privacy.

  3. Make new positive friends as often as possible and ensure you keep the communication line open. Create a network of friends and not just connections.

  4. Show kindness to everyone. Some small boys today will be big boys tomorrow. The biggest dog in the neighborhood was once a puppy. And keep the information/secret to yourself.

  5. Always plan ahead and be proactive. He that plans the future work less in the future.

  6. Listen to speeches and messages from great teachers. Both religious and educational.

  7. Attend seminars and training on any area you need to improve yourself. Train the trainer, personal development, public speaking, sales etc.

  8. Have the habit of keeping a pen and a writing pad handy because ideas come in the form of flashes. The smallest pen is bigger and better than the biggest brain.

  9. Make sure at every point in time you are reading a book. If you spend 20 minutes reading daily, for 52 weeks you would have consumed 1,000,000 words.

  10. Stay away from television as much as possible. You can watch educational channels. Men with big TV sit in front of them to watch men with big library.

  11. Put control over your mouth, never say evil of any man, what you are not certain of should not be said. Say good of all men.

  12. Always show appreciation for any good deed you received and always helps someone in need.

  13. Live a debt free life. What you can't pay cash for is not your size.

  14. Give out loans that you can part with as gift, so that you don't destroy your business and relationship.

  15. Create legitimate multiple source of income and save at least 10 percent of your income.

  16. Invest a portion of your income. And be patient to see it grow. If what you have in your hands is not good to be called a harvest then it's a seed, sow it.

  17. Keep a good financial record of all income and expenses, so you won't ask later "where did my money go"

  18. Be involved in community service. Control traffic, free lesson class for students etc.

  19. Keep getting better on your daily goals and dream, develop yourself on them and make sure you get to the top 10 % of your industry.

  20. Make sure you engage in exercise. It keeps your brain alert and your body fit to enjoy your success.

CHAPTER 11

MOTIVATIONAL QUOTES

Be miserable. Or motivate yourself. Whatever has to be done, it's always your choice.

  1. Do not spoil what you have by desiring what you do not have; and always remember that what you now have was once among the things you only hoped for.

  2. Don't confuse having less with being less, having more with being more, or what you have with who you are.

  3. Worry does not empty tomorrow of its sorrow. It empties today of its strength.

  4. We get back what we give. "When you are good to others, you are best to yourself."

  5. Being broke is not the same as being broken, losing money is not the same as being lost, and finding your balance is not something you can do on a balance sheet.

  6. When you think the other person is dumb, you are making a fool of yourself.

  7. The key to happiness is not that you never get upset, frustrated or irritated. It is how quickly you decide to snap out of it.

  8. Forgiveness can be difficult, but to simply release and let go of past hurts is a skill that can be learned with practice.

  9. Impossible is a word to be found only in the dictionary of fools

  10. Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn't do than by the ones you did do.

  11. Fortune favors the brave. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream. Discover!

  12. People often say that motivation doesn't last. Well, neither does bathing - that's why we recommend it daily.

  13. Desire is the starting point of all achievement, not a hope, not a wish, but a keen pulsating desire, which transcends everything.

  14. People become really quite remarkable when they start thinking that they can do things.

  15. What we can or cannot do, what we consider possible or impossible, is rarely a function of our true capability. It is more likely a function of our beliefs about who we are.

  16. Every human has four endowments- self-awareness, conscience, independent will and creative imagination. These give us the ultimate human freedom... The power to choose, to respond, to change.

  17. "When a friend is in trouble, don't annoy him by asking if there is anything you can do. Think up something appropriate and do it."

  18. If you believe in what you are doing, then let nothing hold you up in your work. Much of the best work of the world has been done against seeming impossibilities

  19. There are no accidents... there is only some purpose that we haven't yet understood.

  20. You can be anything you want to be, do anything you set out to accomplish if you hold to that desire with singleness of purpose.

  21. Remember, happiness doesn't depend upon who you are or what you have, it depends solely upon what you think.

  22. Don't get discouraged; it is often the last key in the bunch that opens the lock.

  23. The person who moves a mountain begins by carrying away small stones.

  24. We gain strength, and courage, and confidence by each experience in which we really stop to look fear in the face.

  25. Courage doesn't always roar. Sometimes courage is the little voice at the end of the day that says, "I'll try again tomorrow."

  26. You must have long range goals to keep you from being frustrated by short range failures.

  27. When you change the way you look at things, the things you look at change.

  28. Your vision is the promise of what you shall one day be.

  29. Circumstance does not make the man; it reveals him to himself.

  30. Nothing is more important than feeling good.

  31. It's not the lack of ability or opportunity that holds you back; it is only a lack of confidence in yourself.

  32. There are no limits to what you can accomplish, except the limits you place on your own thinking.

  33. Average people have wishes and hopes. Confident people have goals and plans.

  34. Confidence is a habit that can be developed by acting as if you already had the confidence you desire to have.

  35. What are you doing today that, knowing what you now know, you wouldn't get into again if you had to do it over?

  36. You are always free to choose what you do more of, what you do less of, and what you do not at all.

  37. Dream big dreams! Only big dreams have the power to move your mind and spirit.

  38. You are nature's greatest miracle. There never has been and never will be anyone just like you.

  39. Your name is the most important sound in your world. Give it with pride.

  40. An attitude of positive self expectancy is a great builder of confidence.

  41. You do not need to be different from who you are. You only need to be more of the person you already are.

  42. You mind is like a muscle – the more you use it, the more powerful it becomes.

  43. There is no problem you cannot solve, no obstacle you cannot overcome, and no goal you cannot achieve.

  44. Anything anyone else has done, you can probably do as well, if you want to badly enough.

  45. No one is better than you – some people are just better developed and more knowledgeable in certain areas.

  46. Accept that you are where you are and what you are because of yourself. If you don't like it, change it!

  47. Face your problems squarely. As Shakespeare said, "Take arms against a sea of troubles, and in doing so, end them"

  48. Become an unshakable optimist – look for the good in every situation.

  49. Fake it until you make it! Act as if you had all the confidence you require until it becomes your reality.

  50. See for the valuable lesson every setback or disappointment – you will always find one.

  51. After every difficulty, ask yourself two questions; what did i do right? And what would I do differently?

  52. The greatest quality is that of becoming unstoppable! And you become unstoppable by refusing to quit, no matter what happens.

  53. Talk to yourself positively all the time. Keep repeating. I can do it! I can do it! Until your fears disappear.

  54. Don't ever worry about what people might think. Other people aren't really thinking about you at all!

  55. You are a thoroughly good person – negative ideas you have about yourself have no basis in reality.

  56. Your thought is creative. Thoughts held in mind, produce after their kind.

  57. Clear written goals with plans of action will build your self-confidence as fast as any other factor.

  58. Believe in yourself; every heart vibrates to that iron string.

  59. You are in an ongoing process of becoming, growing and developing in the direction of your dominant thoughts. What are they?

  60. When you listen to your "inner voice" and follow your intuition, you will probably never make another mistake.

  61. People are just about as happy as they make up their minds to be.

  62. The more you do of what you're doing the more you will get what you have got.

  63. Learn something new. Try something different. Convince yourself that you have no limits.

  64. You have within you, right now, the ability to be, have, and do far more than you have ever dreamed before.

  65. The single common denominator of men and women who achieve great things is a sense of destiny.

  66. Decide what's right before you decide what's possible.

  67. It is the ability to take a joke, not make one, which proves you have a sense of humor.

  68. Love and magic have a great deal in common. They enrich the soul, delight the heart. And they both need practice.

  69. The best and most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen, nor touched...but are felt in the heart.

  70. People who cannot invent and reinvent themselves must be content with borrowed postures, secondhand ideas, fitting in instead of standing out.

  71. The only man who never makes mistakes is the man who never does anything.

  72. Self-pity gets you nowhere. One must have the adventurous daring to accept oneself as a bundle of possibilities and undertake the most interesting game in the world, making the most of one's best.

  73. Man's mind, once stretched by a new idea, never regains its original dimensions.

  74. More than anything else, I believe it's our decisions, not the conditions of our lives that determine our destiny.

  75. You see, in life, lots of people know what to do, but few people actually do what they know. Knowing is not enough! You must take action.

  76. We will act consistently with our view of who we truly are, whether that view is accurate or not.

  77. One of the best ways to educate our hearts is to look at our interaction with other people, because our relationships with others are fundamentally a reflection of our relationship with ourselves.

  78. Disciplining yourself to do what you know is right and important, although difficult, is the highroad to pride, self-esteem, and personal satisfaction.

  79. I've found that luck is quite predictable. If you want more luck, take more chances. Be more active. Show up more often.

  80. Motivation alone is not enough. If you have an idiot and you motivate him, now you have a motivated idiot.

  81. Formal education will make you a living; self-education will make you a fortune.

  82. If you don't like how things are, change it! You're not a tree.

  83. To solve any problem, here are three questions to ask yourself: First, what could I do? Second, what could I read? And third, who could I ask?

  84. Desire is the starting point of all achievement, not a hope, not a wish, but a keen pulsating desire which transcends everything.

  85. Cherish your visions and your dreams as they are the children of your soul; the blueprints of your ultimate achievements.

  86. When defeat comes, accept it as a signal that your plans are not sound, rebuild those plans, and set sail once more toward your coveted goal.

  87. There is one quality which one must possess to win, and that is definiteness of purpose, the knowledge of what one wants, and a burning desire to possess it.

  88. If you don't first handle fear and desire, and you get rich, you'll only be a high-pay slave.

  89. The two most powerful things in existence: a kind word and a thoughtful gesture.

  90. The deepest human need is the need to be appreciated.

  91. Never doubt that a small group of committed people can change the world. Indeed it is the only thing that ever has.

  92. To live is the rarest thing in the world. Most people exist, that is all.

  93. A year from now you may wish you had started today.

  94. Think highly of yourself, for the world takes you at your own estimate.

  95. What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us.

  96. Believe in yourself and there will come a day when others will have no choice but to believe with you.

  97. Just because another person is succeeding does not mean you are failing.

  98.  One who understands feelings from our expressions is more precious than million people who need thousand words to understand our unspoken feelings.

  99.  If you're not doing what you love, you're wasting your time.

  100. Believe with all your heart that you will do what you were made to do.

CHAPTER 12

LIL WAYNE QUOTES AND LYRICS

I know I talk shit but I hope it matters. I know I talk shit but it sounds right.

  1. The paralyzed feel me, the blind sees me, the deaf can hear me and the smart fear me.

  2. Life is a beach, am just playing on the sand.

  3. The money doesn't sleep so I can't rest and AK-47 is my fucking address.

  4. I am the one who has to die when it is time for me to die. So let me live my life the way I want to.

  5. I am all I trust.

  6. I am going for the gold, my heart is in control. My mind is on succeed and I am in the lead.

  7. You can love me or hate me, I swear it won't make me or break me.

  8. They don't know where I came from but they know where I am going.

  9. Here is my funniest joke, I am broke.

  10. And I don't think you are beautiful I think you are beyond it.

  11. I listen to her heartbeat because it plays my favorite song.

  12. You can keep knocking but you won't knock me down. No love lost, no love found.

  13. Lord, protect me from my friends; I can take care of my enemies.

  14. Yeah my life is a bitch, but you know nothing about her.

  15. I don't want a broken heart, cause I will lose all the pieces.

  16. Life is a bitch, death is her sister and sleep is her cousin, what a fucking family picture.

  17. They said I could not play football, I was too small. They said I could not play basketball, I wasn't tall. They said I could not play baseball at all and now every day of my life I BALL.

  18. When I started flirting with the hustle, failure became my EX. Now I am engaged to the game and married to success.

  19. I should cherish life, but this ain't paradise.

  20. I gonna die with money cause I was not born with it.

  21. I know this world is so cold and deceiving but I keep my head up like my nose is bleeding.

  22. Am at the top of the top but still I climb and if ever I should fall the ground will then turn to wine.

  23. But in every twice in a while it feels like am running and life is the miles and until the lights are dimming down I will be running round.

  24. My mama told me never hurt a woman but what if that woman hurt me?

  25. Now we are murders because we kill time and I knock her lights out but she still shine.

  26. I hate to see her go but I love to watch her leave.

  27. The hate is music to my ears, I got my dancing shoes.

  28. If I fall up, I let the cloud suck me but if ever I should fall down, I better hit the ground running.

  29. You can save your bullshit on your memory card.

  30. She is my motivation and am her transportation cos I let her drive, while I drive her crazy.

  31. They say we learn from mistake that's why they mistake me.

  32. Life is a movie that I have seen too many times.

  33. Am falling for you baby I need a parachute, am so wet I need a wet suit.

  34. Every finish line is the beginning of a new race.

  35. They say choose wisely that's why I was chosen.

  36. I try to pay attention but attention pays me.

  37. The future is born put the past in a casket.

  38. Ok, you lock me in a cage I will come out in a beast mode.

  39. I got the world stocked in a save, combination is the cheat code.

  40. Don't look down on me like a wild growing flower.

  41. You scared? Go to church; say your prayers, read a Bible.

  42. I have got money and power, a woman in the shower and she don't want nothing but my Johnson.

  43. And if you leave you are leaving the best, so you would have to settle for less.

  44. Love is in the air but I will put on a gas mask.

  45. I am looking like a star bitch, when you see me make a wish.

  46. If you are not running with them, run away from them.

  47. I remember the love night, living a wrong life but am going to make that wrong right.

  48. I have some weight on my shoulders to me they are feathers.

  49. Devil on my shoulder the Lord is my witness.

  50. Am on the highway to heaven, God can you see my brake light.

  51. Confidence is a stain they can't wipe off.

  52. Tell them kiss my ass; I call it "kiss and tell".

  53. We prepare for the worst but still hope for the best.

  54. This game is a bitch and I have my hands on her dress.

  55. You can steal my watch but not my time.

  56. Today I went shopping and talk is still cheap.

  57. Freedom was my girl until they fucking took her.

  58. And not having money is the root of all evil.

  59. When my mama smiles that a blessing and I see the message and no message could be any clearer.

  60. Call me crazy, I have been called worst.

  61. No face no trace, out of sight is out of mind, no cut no cake.

  62. But I fucked up, I know I fucked up, I admit I fucked up but everybody fuck up.

  63. I have been through it all, the fails the falls.

  64. Sometimes I wanna drop a tear but no emotions from a king.

  65. Is there a heaven for G's and soldiers? I can't go to hell cause I did take over.

  66. I am focused, I am thinking like I got two brains.

  67. Man I swear I am so fly; I woke up in the sky and wipe the cloud out my eyes.

  68. Swallow my words, taste my thoughts and if it is too nasty spit it back at me.

  69. I do what I do and you do what you can about it.

  70. I am not the shooter, I am the bullet bitch.

  71. I am a doctor; they don't understand my hand writing.

  72. Slim chance I fall but I won't fall.

  73. I will keep running this shit until am the last man running.

  74. I see the truth in your lies.

  75. I hate love. I used to tell myself I would not do this to myself, unit I proves it to myself. And now am losing myself.

  76. I stand in front of clock cause I am ahead of time.

  77. Money on my mind, that's all I think of, married to the game never taking my ring off.

  78. Do it big and let the small fall under that.

  79. Baby am a love machine and I won't work for nobody but you.

  80. If you need an example on how to live then you just should have not been born.

  81. I know I have gotta lock my casket tight so I don't let the devil in.

  82. If I can't live free, if can't live with the same respect as the next man, I don't wanna be here.

  83. They say Heaven is guarded but I think I have the code. You just have to live your life right at the end of the road.

  84. Im just a soul whose intensions are good oh Lord, please don't let me be misunderstood.

  85. I am not afraid to fall in love, I am afraid to fall for something I thought was love.

  86. The world is an asshole, we the next big shit.

  87. Shit happens, and since am the shit am who it happened to.

  88. The best things in life are free.

  89. I don't need it to be easy, I need it to be worth it.

  90. Dudes need to stop saying "money over bitches" when they get neither.

  91. Since a pussy got lips I guess you niggas can speak.

  92. I tell her make me some money, she tell me make me a wife.

  93. Fear nobody but God almighty.

  94. I'm getting head while giving head, that's a head-on collision.

  95. Never bite the hand that feeds you. Always watch the hand that is cooking.

  96. Even when I am lying on my back, I am never backing down.

  97. Cause I am sleeping, I am dreaming I know that there is a better way cause I have seen the Lord.

  98. A millionaire, I am a young money millionaire tougher than Nigerian hair.

  99. I don't write anything down. I just record it.

  100. I am proud of me.

CHAPTER 13

LOVE QUOTES

Love isn't blind. It sees but it doesn't mind.

  1. You. The first thing I think of every morning, the last thing that stays on my mind every night.

  2. Real love is only possible when you love something more than you love yourself.

  3. No relationship is a waste of time. The wrong ones teach you the lessons that prepare you for the right ones.

  4. You wanna know who's amazing and has the cutest smile ever? Read the first word again.

  5. If someone truly loves you, they won't make you feel like you need to constantly fight for their attention.

  6. A relationship without trust is like having a phone with no service. And what do you do with a phone with no service? You play games.

  7. When you truly care for someone, their mistakes never change our feelings, because it is the mind that gets angry but the heart still loves them.

  8. The spaces between my fingers are where yours fit perfectly.

  9. If love can grow through grass, Love can find you at every time in your life.

  10. Love is like a rubber band held at both ends by two people, when one leaves it hurts the other.

  11. Am too young for marriage, am too old for games and am too smart for players.

  12. Love itself is what is left over when being in love has burned away.

  13. A man loves a million women, but a real man loves one woman a million ways.

  14. The magic of first love is our ignorance that it can ever end.

  15. Against all odds and despite all the obstacles, we are going to make it.

  16. All of the best love stories have one thing in common; you have to go against the odds to get there.

  17. The scariest thing about distance is that you don't know whether they'll miss you or forget you.

  18. If you are single don't worry, God is writing your love story.

  19. I used to think the best thing in the world was seeing you smile, and then I realized the best thing in the world is to know that I caused it.

  20. Roses are a traditional symbol of love and, depending on their color, can suggest different nuances of love. For example; red roses indicate passion and true love. Light pink suggests desire, passion, and energy; dark pink suggests gratitude. Yellow roses can mean friendship or jealousy. A lavender or thorn less rose can mean love at first sight. White roses mean virtue or devotion. Some roses even combine colors to create more complicated meaning.

  21. Don't walk in front of me, I may not follow. Don't walk behind me, I may not lead. Just walk beside me and be my friend.

  22. A thousand people could tell me they thought I was beautiful, but it doesn't mean anything unless it's coming from you.

  23. You're not always going to fall for he right person, but that's okay, because when you do none of the others will matter anymore.

  24. A relationship where you can act like complete idiots together is the sweetest thing ever.

  25. Sometimes you love someone so much that not even the truth can change your mind.

  26. What each kiss means? Kiss on the forehead – we are cute together, kiss on the check – we are friends, kiss on the hand – I adore you, kiss on the neck – I want you now, kiss on the shoulder – you are perfect, kiss on the lip – I love you and kiss anywhere else – lets not get carried away.

  27. There's no past tense in loving someone. It's either you always will or you never did.

  28. Falling in love is like jumping off a ten story building, your mind tells you "You can't" but your heart tells you "I believe you can fly".

  29. Since ancient Greece, the apple has been a symbol of love. The Celts believed that the apple represented love because it lasted so long after being picked.

  30. Love is like playing Music. First you must learn to play by the rules, and then you must forget the rules and play from your heart.

  31. Sometimes the right person for you was there all along. You just didn't see it because the wrong one was blocking the sight.

  32. 1 universe, 8 planets, 204 countries, 804 islands, 7 seas, 7 billion people, and my heart still tells me it's you.

  33. Your less wanted maybe someone else most wanted.

  34. The only abnormality is the incapacity to love.

  35. I wanna be the reason behind your smile, because surely, you're the reason behind mine.

  36. If you love somebody, set them free. If they return, they were always yours. If they don't, they never were.

  37. If you're willing to do anything for me just to see me smile, you can be assured that I will always stay by your side.

  38. A relationship is like a house. When a light bulb burns out you do not go and buy a new house, you fix the light bulb.

  39. You can have friendship and you can have love, but it's only when you have both together that it will be a great love.

  40. You will always be the answer, when somebody asks me what I'm thinking about.

  41. Relationships work best when you drop excess luggage from the past and live life forward with no regrets.

  42. Sometimes, to get someone's attention, you have to stop giving them yours.

  43. Two people don't fall in love because they sleep in the same bed, but because they share the same dreams.

  44. Her past relationships were the worst thing in her life. You being a man should make her new relationship the best of her life.

  45. A relationship is like a couple holding hands. Although the hands are different and imperfect, they still fit together perfectly.

  46. I can be around a thousand people, but without you I would still feel alone.

  47. It's amazing what people do for love, and it's even more amazing what love does to people.

  48. The best relationship is when you can completely act yourself and they can still love you for who you are.

  49. If you want me in your life, put me there. I shouldn't be fighting for a spot.

  50. He always dreamt of being a hero. She always dreamt of being a princess. As fate would have it, he's her hero and she's his princess.

  51. She may be confused about a lot of things but she knows the only time she is truly happy is when she is with him.

  52. Every girl has her best friend, boyfriend and true love. She is really lucky if they're all the same person.

  53. Anyone can make you smile, many people can make you cry, but it takes someone really special to make you smile with tears in your eyes.

  54. If you love someone, you give everything you can and don't expect to receive anything in return.

  55. It is hard to find someone whom you truly love, much less to find someone who loves you as much. When the chance comes, don't ever let go.

  56. Do not make me your number one; make me your only one.

  57. When guys lie, they say they love you. When girls lie, they say they don't.

  58. Real love is when you can name everything that is terrible about them and just not care.

  59. Soul-mates are people who bring out the best in you. They are not perfect but are always perfect for you.

  60. Pride attracts the girl, courage approaches the girl, wisdom gets the girl, strength puts up with the girl, but loyalty keeps the girl.

  61. Two things determine the success of a relationship. How much each of you gives and how little each of you takes for granted.

  62. True love is like playing chess. A boy plays and always afraid of losing his queen and a girl risking everything just to protect her king.

  63. No matter what we do, I'll always remember the first time I saw you.

  64. I want you today, tomorrow, next week, and for the rest of my life.

  65. There's always gonna be that one person in your life that you can't walk away from even if you know you have to.

  66. We met for a reason; either you're a blessing or a lesson.

  67. Unconditional love is loving without expecting.

  68. Love me for who I am, not who you thought I was.

  69. If you truly love someone, all you want is for them to be happy, even if deep down, all you want is for you to be their happiness.

  70. When you truly love someone, you would do anything to make him happy even if it means to say goodbye.

  71. Isn't it amazing how a person, who was once just a stranger, suddenly meant the world to you?

  72. A girl just wants to find a guy that will prove to her that they're not all the same.

  73. Yes, I am single but you are gonna have to be amazing to change that.

  74. Every girl has three guys in her life: The one she loves. The one she hates. The one she can't live without.

  75. When you give a lot of importance to someone in your life, you lose your importance in their life.

  76. A strong relationship starts with two brave people who are ready to sacrifice anything for one another.

  77. A true friend is someone who lets you have total freedom to be yourself. Real love is letting a person be who they really are.

  78. You never really stop loving someone. You just learn to try to live without them.

  79. Promise me you'll never forget all times we spent together and promise me no one will take my place in your heart.

  80. Find someone worth your tears, worth your laughter, worth your heart and loves you as much as you love them.

  81. When you really matter to someone, that person will always make time for you. No excuses, no lies, and no broken promises.

  82. I don't want someone who sees the good about me, I want someone who sees the bad and still loves me.

  83. If you make a girl laugh, she likes you, but if you make her cry, she loves you.

  84. Guys, the next time when someone tells you 'bros before hoes', tell them that the rule still stands, except that she's not a hoe.

  85. Without you, tomorrows wouldn't be worth the wait and yesterdays wouldn't deserve remembering.

  86. Kindness in words creates confidence. Kindness in thinking creates profoundness. Kindness in giving creates love.

  87. The best relationships are the ones you didn't expect to be in and the ones you never saw coming.

  88. I tell myself that I'm never going to talk to him again. But when I get a text from him, I can't help but smile.

  89. Sometimes, you have to walk away just to see if he will follow you.

  90. If you asked me how many times you have crossed my mind I would say once, because you never really left.

  91. It's better to love & lost, than to never have loved at all.

  92. True lovers don't marry someone they can live with; they marry someone they can't live without.

  93. We always ignore the ones who adore us, and adore the ones who ignore us.

  94. See this love thing, I will try it again just more carefully this time.

  95. Every relationship has its problems but what makes it perfect is when you still want to be there when everything sucks.

  96. No one is afraid of heights, they are afraid to fall. No one is afraid of the dark, they are afraid of what is in it. No one is afraid to say "I love you", they are afraid of the response.

  97. If you have a choice between me and her, choose her because if you really loved me there wouldn't be a choice.

  98. Never ignore someone, who really cares for you because someday you may realize that you have lost a Diamond, while you were collecting stones.

  99.  When you are fighting and being pushed to the edge, remember one thing. Real relationships aren't perfect and perfect relationships aren't real.

  100.  If you were happy with the wrong one, just think how happy you will be when the right one comes.

CHAPTER 14

FLIRTY QUOTES

My heart is mine but whenever I argue with it about you, it takes your side.

  1. Girl, if God made anything prettier than you I am sure he kept it to himself.

  2. One reason God created time was so that I could spend mine with you.

  3. Hey do you have an extra breath? Cos you just took mine away.

  4. Call 911!!! My heart got a stroke when that beauty smiles at me.

  5. I haven't been hugged for a while; could you show me how to do it?

  6. Most pictures may be worth a thousand words, but a picture of you needs only one wow!

  7. Baby, you are so hot, you made the devil sweat.

  8. Would you please empty your pockets ... I think you just stole my heart.

  9. Can I take you a photo? So I can prove to my friends angels actually exist.

  10. You tripped me and I fell for you but you didn't care enough to catch me.

  11. Looks like heaven has finally answered my prayers.

  12. If I told you, you had a beautiful body, would you hold it against me?

  13. God was showing off when he made you.

  14. Something must be wrong with my phone; your number is not in it.

  15. Excuse me; you just blinded me with your beauty, now I need your name and number for insurance purposes.

  16. No offenses, but my last name goes better with your first name better than yours does. Why don't give it a try?

  17. There is no light that could light up my day more than you could.

  18. If I had one wish, trust me I would wish for you.

  19. I forgot where I live, can I come home with you.

  20. There must be a light switch on my forehead because every time I see you, you turn me on.

  21. They say dreams do come through, and you are a living proof that they do.

  22. Boy: does your name mean beautiful? Girl: no. Boy: well, it should be. I am calling the dictionary people.

  23. Allow me to rescue you from a crowd of admirers.

  24. I had three wishes than I'd give back two, cause my only wish is to be with you.

  25. It takes millions of people to complete the world but it takes only you to complete mine.

  26. I don't know much about algebra but what I do know is you plus me equals forever.

  27. If beauty were time, you did be an eternity.

  28. I am sitting here thinking to myself, why is my heart not beating anymore? Forgot you took it last night.

  29. I want to taste something sweet, could I taste your lips?

  30. There must be something wrong with my eyes; I can't take them off you.

  31. Boy: I got a picture of something pretty amazing, wanna see it? Girl: sure. Boy: shows picture of the girl.

  32. Looks like my Santa has come early this year, because you were first on my Christmas list.

  33. You are the gold medal that got my heart racing.

  34. I have to change classes because your beauty distracts me.

  35. There are twenty angels in this world: 10 are playing, 9 are sleeping and the last one is here with me.

  36. Did I die and go to heaven, or do you just look like an angel?

  37. Excuse me, if I go straight this way, will I be able to reach your heart?

  38. I want you to be with me in a nice restaurant to have candle light dinner and say these sweet words to "pay the bill".

  39. What is the height of flirting? When your love letter starts with "to whom so ever it may concern".

  40. I love the ones who are in my life and make it amazing and I thank the ones who left my life and made it even more fantastic.

  41. In my dream you are mine but in my life you are a dream.

  42. If I gave you a kiss and you don't like it, you can always return it.

  43. Excuse me, if I go straight this way, will I be able to reach your heart?

  44. Ever looked at your ex and wondered "was I drunk the entire relationship?"

  45. I heard that good looks can kill, so please don't look at me. I don't wanna see you die.

  46. Nerd flirting: I wish I could select all of yours clothes and press delete.

  47. If you want to succeed in life, be sweet as honey, be regular as clock, be fresh as rose, be soft as tissue, be strong as rock and be as smart like me.

  48. I'm not flirting. I'm just being extra nice to someone who is extra attractive.

  49. If being sexy is a crime... then you can just arrest me now.

  50. Do you have a map? Because I'm lost in your eyes.

  51. Those pants look good on you, but they would look better on my floor.

  52. Your voice makes me tremble inside. Your smile is an invitation For my imagination to go wild.

  53. You may have history with her but you have chemistry with me.

  54. Flirting is the art of making a man feel pleased with himself.

  55. When I look into your eyes my heart starts racing and I see myself falling for you.

  56. I flipped the cards over and saw hearts. I shuffled them and said, "I don't deal with love."

  57. Every minute I spend with you is like being in heaven and looking in an angel's eyes.

  58. Roses are red, violets are blue, sugar is sweet but nothing compared to you.

  59. From A to Z all that really matters is U and I.

  60. If someone was to write a story about my life, the climax would be when I met you.

  61. I hope your day is as radiant as your smile.

  62. Can I take your picture? I want Santa to know exactly what I want for Christmas.

  63. If you want me, it takes more than a wink, more than a drink and more than you think.

  64. When I want to smile, I know exactly what to do, I just close my eyes and think of you.

  65. The stars must be jealous. You shine way better than them.

  66. When I count my blessings, I count you twice.

  67. There is so much to say but your eyes keep interrupting me.

  68. Do I know you? Because you look a lot like my next girlfriend.

  69. If you don't wanna have kids with me, then why don't we just practice?

  70. I looked at a flower and thought it was the most beautiful thing I have ever seen till I met you.

  71. Are you lost beauty? Because heaven is a long way from here.

  72. If nothing last forever, will you be my nothing.

  73. Hi, I am Mr. Right. Someone told me you are looking for me.

  74. Can't wait till tomorrow, because I bet that you get more and more beautiful every day.

  75. My friend wants to know if you think am handsome.

  76. I am definitely not a genie, but I could totally grant your wishes.

  77. You are so sweet; you can put sugar out of market.

  78. Hey, what do you do apart from looking good?

  79. You remind me of how my dad fell in love with my mom.

  80. Heaven must be missing an angel tonight because you are right here on earth.

  81. Did I ever tell you about that star I lost ... well I think I found it.

  82. If you where a bullet I would shoot myself to have you in me.

  83. I noticed you noticing me, so I decide to put you on notice that I noticed you too.

  84. Do you work at a candy shop because I have never met someone so sweet?

  85. If I make you my treasure could I become your pirate?

  86. Can I see your eyes, they show so much of me in you.

  87. You make me feel like a shy kid on rockstar.

  88. I play basketball! Could I get your name and number? So I can put it on my Jersey.

  89. Is your father a dentist because you have the most beautiful smile?

  90. Call 911please, I want to report that I have just been hit by your love.

  91. I am not a good catcher ... but I am a good catch.

  92. Excuse me sweetheart, your name must be beautiful because I can't imagine it to be nothing else.

  93. Have you ever been arrested for been so cute?

  94. The devil sent me to bring an angel to him, but when I saw you, I never went back.

  95. Sweet fruits are nice to eat, sweet words are nice to say, but sweet people are really hard to find. My goodness, how the hell did you manage to find me?

  96. We have been friends for a while now; do you think we can be more than friends? Because I like you very much, will you be my partner to rob a bank?

  97.  Ever since I've met you, no one else is worth thinking about.

  98. You have no idea how fast my heart beats when I...... see you.

  99. I'm in my bed, you are in yours. One of us is obviously in the wrong place.

  100. I am a fish out of water without you.

