

DESABRAISBROS

IVAN DESABRAIS & IAN DESABRAIS

PRESENTS

A SAMPLE FROM

@MYZOMBIEJOURNAL

As seen on Twitter!

A Savage Klaxon Story

****

Sample from the first installment of the infamous saga.

****

Photo by: Ian Desabrais

Cover by: Ivan Desabrais:

http://desabraisbros.wordpress.com/

****

SMASHWORDS EDITION

COPYRIGHT © 2011 IVAN DESABRAIS. IAN DESABRAIS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

****

License Statement

This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, events, and locations are fictitious or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual persons or events, living or dead, are entirely coincidental.

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. The book contained herein constitutes a copyrighted work and may not be reproduced, stored in or introduced into an information retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means (electrical, mechanical, photographic, audio recording, or otherwise) for any reason (excepting the uses permitted to the licensee by copyright law under terms of fair use.) without the specific written permission of the author.

If you would like to share this ebook with someone else, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you are reading this book and did not buy it, please purchase your own copy. Thank you for your support and for respecting our work. Enjoy your read.

****

Contact Information

Visit our blog. Explore the Culture of writing and the art of story telling. See what's coming soon by Desabraisbros Ivan & Ian Desabrais and purchase more of our books! Don't miss out.

http://desabraisbros.wordpress.com/

****

"WHAT IF ZOMBIES WERE REAL AND THEY ARE EVERYWHERE?"

The year is 2014. We never saw it coming. Zombies are everywhere. Everybody I knew is gone.

****
Prologue

My Name is Savage Klaxon, don't judge me for the acts that I did during Zday. I'm just a man. I tried to do what I thought was right in the moment. Sometimes when your goal is surviving, the moment slips away from you. You change and you see yourself changing. There's nothing you can do but go with it or die.

These dead things that lurk in our streets were once people with families who loved them. Don't mistake them for who they were. They are flesh hungry monsters who wait for you to get complacent. They wait.

If you're reading this and I'm gone, I hope I made a difference. I pray that humanity still exists. I fought everyday for you, for me. We can't give up. We can't lay down and let them come. We need to send these soulless dead back to hell and take back the world of the living.

If you're one of the men or women who I fought next to and you found my zombie journal on my phone, or netbook, put it where someone can find it in the future. They need to know what happened. They need to know that we were here and we weren't afraid. We were slayers of the dead.

****

****

Dedication

To the zombie culture, when it comes to our mortality, most of us are afraid. When it comes to life, most of us are zombies.

****

****

Warning

Some of these stories may not be suitable for young readers. They may contain real and mature themes. They will give you nightmares. They may make you think about zombies.

****
Introduction

When reading this book, the first thing you may notice is that the writing is displayed in the form of tweets. If you don't know what a tweet is, it is a 140 character message usually found on the social network twitter. Twitter posts are dated and read from bottom to top. We took the time to post all the work from top to bottom the way most people read.

The next thing you will notice is that the body of work is in the form of a journal as we inteded. To keep it as realistic as possible, it is written completely as Savage Klaxon has written it, in his voice, with his manner of speech and typing. The dates are used as the times he could steal a moment to report what was going on, but not when they happened.

Savage is an intriguing man. You will not get bored reading his posts, nor will you find him using really big words so he can feel smart. You will find that sometimes he may use the wrong word or perhaps make a spelling / punctuation mistake. We spent many sleepless nights on the thought if we should censor and edit him. As we did edit his work, we felt the few grammar mistakes we left made him more real. Show me a man like Savage who speaks like he went to harvard and I will show you a boring man. Real people make typos and sometimes misuse words when they text. This only deepens our story.

This character came to life in a whirlwind of a question. As in each of our novels, that question is asked near the top of this digital document. 'What if zombies were real and they are everywhere?' We hope this novel answers the question, entertains, and titillates. Enjoy!

Desabraisbros - 2011

****

****

***PART 1: IT'S BEEN A YEAR***

26 Apr myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

It's been a year since I had a computer. Just glad to see I can still access the internet.

27 Apr myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

Before the Zombies came, this internet cafe was always packed. Now I'm the only one here.

The city is full of zombies. It's been a long time since I've seen anyone else. I hope I'm not all that's left.

29 Apr myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

I went to get fresh water. Had to shoot my .35-300 Magnum Tactical Precision rifle. It was loud. Streets swarmed with the dead.

Almost didn't make it to the safe house. Dropped the water. So thirsty. Also could use a bath. I'm getting kind of ripe. Out of Clothes.

Earlier, I lugged this computer from the Cafe. Got it to work. Don't know for how long. Neighbor had internet. He's gone now. Poor Josh.

I wonder if anybody's out there. Still looking. Might have to lay low a couple of days. They're still around. I can smell them.

30 Apr myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

Smelled fresh bread baking today. Going to check it out.

1 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

Bread smell came from a grocery store. Three of them were in there. One was a teenage girl. She ran right at me. She was missing an arm.

Used my HK USP 45. Thank god for suppressors. (Silencers) It took me three shots to put her down. The next was in the back. Maybe her dad.

He howled at me. Bastard knocked me over. Couldn't look at them. They were traveling together. Had a festering bite on his face. She did it.

Heard one smacking into the frozen section. They walk into stuff, over and over again. She didn't see me right away. I could smell her.

Her body was badly decomposing. I took aim and she noticed. She snarled. I had to put her down. I know they were once people. This sucks.

There were twelve loafs of fresh onion bread in the baked goods area, right out of the machines. I think the dad and girl made it.

A bus I didn't notice before was parked out in front. Found a cellphone, picked it up, was face to face with three hunting rifles.

Women, saying they're doing it for the kids on the bus. They robbed me, left me with no bread or guns. I didn't shoot em'. Am I fool?

Spent the night on the roof of the Grocery store. I had food and a spaded shovel I found inside. When the street was clear I ran.

2 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

Saw a swarm of them in the park. What the hell are they doing? Sometimes they just stand there not really looking at anything.

I got all the way through the bike path with no trouble. Then I came face to face with MR. Sholts. Nice old guy, used to walk his dog by me.

Mr. Sholts was trying to get in the building. Came up quiet, called his name. He had on a dirty suit. Turned, missing a jaw.

Mr. Sholts ran at me, gurgling and spewing blood, black stuff. Hit him with the shovel. Tried to drag him, leg came off in my hand.

Mr. Sholts reached up to me. Think he knew. Took his zombie head off with the spade shovel on the curb, and drove the blade into his brain.

Still got that Cellphone I found before I got robbed. It's dead, hoping to charge it. Lines are down around here. Wish family had Skype.

I've been thinking about why I just let them women take my stuff. I guess I'm kind of lonely. A part of me wishes they took me with them.

Exploring the building. Found Hayden in the mail room, facing the boxes. He was still. Lived on the 3rd floor. Used to borrow stuff.

Hayden was moaning and whining. Came around him. Was missing an eye. His chest was torn up. Probably his sweet lil fiancé's handy-work.

Hayden, the bastard, dove at me, crushed me into the wall. Took poor Hayden with my serrated machete. Got it at a yard sale years ago. $10.

Wish when I find someone they are not trying to eat or rob me. This sucks. If it wasn't for this damn twitter, I'd go nuts.

3 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

On my run yesterday through the apartment building, found a glock 17 tactical hand gun. It was in a desk drawer, in apt 103.

Whoever lived in 103 was set to go. The cupboards were filled with canned tuna. There was an earthquake kit. Oh and a stun gun in a Medkit.

Heard something moving around in the bathroom. Made sure to load some fresh ammo, opened the door. It was a bulldog. Someone just left him.

Dog's with me now, eating tuna. He likes it. Not sure what to call him. He seems like he hasn't eaten in a while. He was happy to see me.

Heard some noise in the hall. Dog was growling. Going to check it out. Could be looters, Maybe the dead. Could be survivors. Gettin antsy.

I went out into the hall and didn't see anything. Suppressed Sig sauer 229 Elite armed. Walked the hall, round the corner.

Black lab dog in the hall half in an APT. Got near, saw him chewing on someone. Nudged him with my foot and he faced me, snarling.

The dogs eyes were cloudy and mirky, he was missing fur. He nipped at me, moved back. Saw his ribs sticking out of his fur.

Shot him three times in the head. He fell. Damn walking dead dog. Heard hoarse breathing sound. The old guy on the ground was still moving.

He Gutturally snarled. Put him down. Stepped inside. Woman's legs sticking out from behind the couch. All that's left of her. She was eaten.

In blood on the wall it said: "God save us." I'm not ashamed to say, I wept. These damn zombies. Decided I'm gonna clear the building.

Next mission is gonna be to find more ammo. Gotta go out for that. Very dangerous. Lots of zombies where I gotta go. Gotta try. Want peace.

4 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

My floor is clear. I have that locked down like Fort Knox. Nobody is getting in now. I chained the doors. Most people are just gone.

I went up a floor. Stupid, stupid. Nothing in the stairwell. Opened the door and smacked it right into the back of some teenagers.

The teens were of the dead kind. I jumped back and tumbled down the steps backwards. My Glock went off a couple of times on the way down.

During my tumble I could hear them, smacking into the door. No way were they going to figure out how to pull it open. Or so I thought.

I guess they still remember some stuff. I'm trying to get up. Back aching, neck sore. Definitely sprained ankle and the door swings open.

They come barreling down at me. YEAH I SCREAMED. And I shot too. Blew their brains over the wall. (Gotta clean that later. Still my home.)

One got so close I could feel his hand on my shoe. Scared the crap out of me. Unloaded the rest of my mag at him. L8r burned my pants.

Can't keep anything once their blood is on it. Boiled some water and took a bath. I need more ammo. I have to get more. Wish I had help.

Tomorrow, me and the dog will go down there in those walking dead infested streets and find some ammo, somewhere. Either that or die.

5 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

Got a leash for the dog and made my way to the back stairs of my apartment building. I led us down a couple floors and could hear something.

It was gurgling, I could smell it, was unbearable. The dog started barking and that got the zombie's attention.

One of the cleaners, she bent backwards looking at us then twisted and ran like a bull seeing red. I used my serrated machete on her.

Got out into the parking lot, the dog was acting kind of nervous so I moved towards the high school. It is so quiet in the streets.

Cut through the field behind the school, there was still kids bags sitting in the grass waiting to be reclaimed.

Heard something bang and could see a young boy pressing his face into the glass of the school door, he was dead. I moved quickly.

Entered the strip mall, the parking lot was practically empty. I turned the corner and was rushed by a balding man in a bus uniform.

Stumbled back then noticed the open bus. I pulled the dog with me around the bus stop bench. That's when I saw 4 others coming towards us.

Slashed my machete at the bus driver I think I cut off his hand. Dog barked & dove at him, pulled him back & got on the bus.

I managed to close the doors. Bus driver and 4 others banged on the walls. I saw something from my peripheral vision.

Two zombies were eating a group of people, one's mouth was hanging low like his jaw was dislocated. He groaned and moved towards me.

Held the dog back with my leg and waited for the chance then took the dead bastards head off. The other one came at me but tripped.

I rushed at her and put an end to her suffering. Supplies at the back of the bus, jugs of water, nonperishable food, and clothes.

They must have been survivors. I tried the bus but it was on Empty. Opened a window and took out the bus driver & 4 others with my gun.

Now I really need ammo. I jotted down the location of the bus and locked it up. Took the street and came to an intersection.

Tons of cars, some with doors opened, others all closed up, nobody around. I could see the big blue & white sign of walmart.

I know my need for ammo is greater then my fear of being in a large department store full of zombies. Walked to the doors and they opened.

A hum was being broadcasted over their sound system. A single phone is ringing, a very eerie feeling.

I waited by the doors hoping to lure out any zombies inside. Nothing came. I entered slowly, the dog was hesitant but I dragged him along.

I could see something move in the deli area. I decided there that I need to take out all the dead to be safe while in this store.

I slowly moved closer to the deli and could see it was a teenage girl wearing the blue of walmart. She was walking into a counter.

I saw she was missing part of her arm, the bone still hanging there. I tried to get closer but its like she smelled me. Her eyes murky white.

Her mouth opened and I pulled the dog with me as I ran and chopped at her with my machete. It lodged into her neck, she reached out for me.

I knocked her down and finished her off. I quickly looked around but couldn't see anyone else. God she reminds me of my little sister.

A scream cried out, I took the dog and began my search making my way to the sporting goods section. The Jewelry counter has 2 people at it.

One just standing there with a blank look on her face, the other kneeling and chewing on a customer. I knew I had to shoot.

Two quick shots and they both fell and I made my way down the aisle even faster hoping to get away from the sound. A shelf fall ahead of me.

A group of shoppers all dead, the smell, the way they looked I emptied my clip in them but one still came at me. I hacked at him and went on.

A streak of blood like a body was dragged leads off to the garden center. I have a few bullets left so I went to the sporting goods.

I got to the glass cases of ammunition. I wedged the machete between the glass and pried the doors open. The shelves were almost full.

I grabbed a hunting supply bag off the shelf and began filling it with all the different calibers of ammo I use. It will be heavy to carry.

I loaded my guns and decided to fill another bag. A woman walks in front of the aisle, she is dragging her leg. I took her out with one shot.

This could turn out bad, I wasn't going to hang around anymore. I quickly got out of the store dragging the heavy bags and leading the dog.

6 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

Spent the night at the bus after I tossed the bodies. In the middle of the night something dragged along the side, it totally freaked me out

At first light I checked around the bus but couldn't see anything. Decided it best to leave one bag of ammo locked on the bus and take one.

Didn't like waiting around while the dog did his business, not in the wide open like this. Took a side road so I wouldn't pass the school.

There's a couple cars at an intersection I took my time and walked a distance from them to check for any dead. I couldn't believe what i saw

A black ferrari F430, with the keys. Guess I could say at least I drove a ferrari. Hopped in the car set the dog in the passenger side.

Turned the key and the engine roared out. How awesome is that, I maneuvered around the other cars and floored it. So sweet to hear the car.

I guess it had to be the sound and the vibration of the car, Zombies swarmed at me. They came from all over the place. I had to escape.

So many of them, nowhere for me to stop and get out. They're all over the road, coming out of buildings some falling out of windows.

This can't be happening, how the hell can I get out of the car and not be torn apart by the freaking dead. Drove for a long time.

They didn't stop following me, the masses came, more and more of them. Some roads packed with cars I had to drive on the sidewalks to pass.

I wouldn't lead them to my apartment, had to keep distance from areas I already went through. I hit a main road and ripped down the street.

After a safe distance away, I grabbed the dog and ran. There was a movie theatre nearby and knew to stay away. Headed towards my apartment.

the ammo is heavy glad I only have the one bag on me. The sun's hiding away and I had to get indoors, back to my safe house if possible.

A zombie was stuck in a bus shelter, it couldn't find the exit like a fly trying to get out an open window went everywhere but the opening.

A man, mid 30's maybe. He had a newsboy cap on, his body seemed mangled like he had been run over. Used my handgun, blood went everywhere.

Loud yells and gun shots, could hear a heavy vehicle and didn't want to be mistaken for the dead. Took off and headed back to my apartment.

7 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

A large truck drives over the lawn of a town house followed by a mass of the dead, I was frozen for only a second. Found a garage door open.

Picked up the dog and ran for the entrance, got into the garage and closed the door. With my gun out I scanned the interior.

Cadillac SRX parked close to the door of the house hiding half the garage. Moved closer and could see a baby seat in the back of the car.

No way did I want to see or have the responsibility of dealing with a zombie of that matter. I walked around to the front of the car.

A woman lay against the back passenger side of the car, her face desolate of blood, white as a piece of chalk. Aimed my gun, she lunged out.

Heard a loud yell, my gun rang out. Shot her in the chest in my panic, it didn't stop her obviously. I supported my arm and finished her.

Realized I was the one yelling, I hate zombies. The truck roared outside, could hear a couple voices and then the sound of gun turrets.

Military or raiders, no way was I going to be seen by either side. Stayed the night in the garage, It was way too quiet, didn't sleep.

Checked outside in the morning, the street littered with zombies blown apart. Recognized a few of them, people I've seen, never spoke with.

Waited in lines at stores with them, never knew their names, or spoke with them. Never going to now. Walked to my apartment a street away.

The glass in the front door was smashed, had to be someone still alive. I entered slowly and peered down the hall on the first floor.

Apartment doors were open, stuff thrown in the hall. I took the back stairs. A man wearing a hunters vest just standing on the 1st landing.

His back to me, head slightly down. I couldn't smell if he was dead, couldn't even see any signs. I cleared my throat and he didn't move.

He had to be new, never seen him before. Moved closer, he never moved not an inch. The dog was used to the dead by now, didn't even bark.

Something just seemed off about it. I got to the last step behind him. Pressed against the wall and slide up to his level.

His forehead was caved in, he was missing the flesh on part of his face. He didn't move, I got a few steps above him and sent him away.

I moved up the stairs like my feet were aflame, a couple doors were open. A large man walks out of my apartment a case of water in hand.

I leapt back and he dropped the water, aimed my gun at him and pulled a door open as a shield. Could hear him swear and fumble with a gun.

I swore knowing nothing good could come of this. He leaned out from my apartment and asked if I swore at him, hell yes i did. He laughed.

Tells me he's with a group of people, they have guns, food and supplies. Asks me to go down with him, I was hesitant but he convinced me.

Lead me to a big red Coca-Cola truck, a couple of guys hanging around with guns and the big truck from yesterday with a turret on the back.

They told me about a cottage that they were heading to on an island nearby, one of guys uncles owned it. Asked me to join up with them.

They told me to toss my stuff in the back of the truck and get a cola. They were going to get all the supplies from this place and move on.

One grabbed the leash of the dog and said he had one once, wondered if he was still alive. He never got back home, never would go.

One of them opened the doors, I looked in feeling hesitant, every meeting with people I had turned out bad. Tons of cases of Cola I got in.

The doors pushed me away as they closed, could hear them laughing and banging on the doors as they locked. A guy yelled who's gonna win.

8 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

Vibrations rattled up from their beating hands on the outside. Heared the raspy barking dog calling out to me. They laughed and hooted.

Something moved. Felt a shift. The inside of the truck was darker. Then the smell of something dead crept closer. Searched for my sidearm.

Pulled out my hidden Springfield Armory XD, switched on the scope. The pale light moved over the red interior, searching...

Saw it there, hanging by unraveling ropes. It reached out, scraping the air violently. A boy, no older than 16. Dressed similar to them.

It didn't understand why it couldn't get closer. The dead body bursting with swinging movement. His clumpy shadow stretching over the floor.

Looked him right in his mirky eyes. Festering bite on his neck. Was once one of them. This is what they do. They're just as bad as the dead.

He lunged forward, his body shaking. Ropes snapped and he crashed to the floor. Stepped back and took aim. Damn head was covered by arms.

The thing leapt up, crashing into the ceiling. Bastard was blind. Their hands beating the truck, the barking dog. Couldn't concentrate.

Salty sweat dripping in my eyes. Shot four times. I can hear them hooting and hollering on the outside. Beams of sunlight beam in new holes.

The smell made me gag. Maggots, rotting flesh. Covered my mouth and nose. It lunged crashing into boxes and crates, snarling and swatting.

The light found his face, infected teeth. Eyes fallen deep in their sockets. Hanging discolored flesh. Slobber dripping from the gums.

It was missing fingers, slits of torn flesh. They were torturing it. "I'm sorry", I said. It cocked it's head to the side, then dove at me.

I threw myself back and shot it three times in the head. Part of it's fleshy skull broke away. It hit the floor. Could still see it's brain.

Its hand stretched out across the floor. Screamed and shot once more. The brain becoming mush. It laid still, cold on the floor.

Never killed one of the living, but my mind was racing. The laughter and hollering died down. I could feel someone approaching the door.

9 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

The rusty latch sung out. Light crept in. Kicked the door, knocking a fool down. Bullets crashed in through the side. I leapt out.

By the time they came around, had his MP9 sub machine gun in hand. Had him as a shield too. Gun firmly at his head. Him whimpering.

They stopped in their tracks and I counted them. 7, including him. Was a little taller than me. Great meat shield. Shook my head. This sux.

Every time I meet someone, they want to eat me, rob me, or kill me. Damn Zombies. Wonder what these 7 fools were like before.

"Move and he's gone." I said. They just looked at me. A skinny one was in total panic. Saw it in his shaky hands. He was very scared.

"Jack whata we do." He called to the big bastard in my grip. "Put your guns down dummy, I don't wanna get shot." He cried out, heart racing.

Felt kinda different being on this side of the gun. They had all my stuff and everything I worked for all this time. Smelled burnt plastic.

Looked around and saw flames in the lobby of my building. The place was burning down. These jokers took everything I ever had. Nothing left.

Anger raced up in me. "YOU BURNT MY HOME!" I shouted. The skinny one looked like he was gonna piss himself. I aimed my new gun at them.

"No", one said, stepping forward. "You don't wanna do this." "YES I DO." I yelled back at him. "Your boys here took everything I had left."

"Come on, there's no such thing as a home anymore. Those things are everywhere. We're all gonna die." He preached on. I just sneered.

"He was gonna kill me." I said, flat out. "Where's my dog?" The man points to another truck. I can see the little bugger looking out at me.

"We had to burn it. It was full of them. You can't live like that." He claimed to me. "I have lived like that since this all started."

They all stood there looking at each other. "Okay, kill him. He deserves it." I stared back at him. No loyalty to each other = No trust.

"Kill him, take his place. I didn't okay any of what he did. I was getting supplies. I'm the leader here, not him." He claimed, pointing.

"You think I would do that? Just one of you." I stated, tipping my hand. "These three did nothing to ya. They're good." He barks.

Didn't know what I did till it was over. Big one, Skinny one, Hooting idiot laid there on the pavement. Never killed anyone living before.

The leader had his gun too. They all had some extra holes in their bodies. Guess he shot them too. I looked at him, confused. Shot his own.

"That building was hard as hell to get into. You do that?" He asked me. "Yeah", I replied looking at the others. They all looked back at me.

He asked me to go with them. Said, we can teach each other stuff to survive. The smell filled our noses. Thought the shot released bowels.

They did, that's not what we were smelling. A whole horde of the walking dead heard our little skirmish and came to feast. Choices limited.

"Come or get eaten here." He yelled running to the truck with the barking dog. I looked back at the others climbing into the red truck.

The Zombies were hungry and getting closer. Home was burning down. They have all my stuff. I wouldn't last. What could I do? Had to survive.

10 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

It wasn't all bad I guess. Ran for the truck with the turret, hopped in. "Take the guns," their fearless leader screamed, his voice cracked.

I looked down at the dog and climbed over the seat. Before I knew it, I was sawing the dead in half. That weapon was very very useful.

Tripping all over each other, leaping from alleys and off of balconies. The dead were chasing the sound of the guns. Very satisfying.

I didn't trust him or his little gang but they sure had some nice toys. I know I could have used this many times in my recent life. Zombies.

Zombies turned to mush, parts still twitching in the street. "In Front," he screamed. Sure enough the turret spun all the way around.

So many zombies that the guys in the truck ahead had to join in on the rain of fire, with Assault Rifles out the windows.

We hit clear road littered with burnt out army vehicles, toppled emergency service trucks, and scattered cop cars. I remember this.

It was on the news. The fools tried to make a stand and save the infected who haven't turned. It was a total debacle. Everyone died.

Searched around finding only small groups of them staring up at the moon. They lost interest. Never understand what drives them. It's sick.

Found my spot in the passenger side. Tired he looked over at me, one hand on the sleeping dog. "They all mesmerized." Was it a question?

"They get like that, don't they," I said, seeing my bag in the back. "Sometimes. It's fucking weird." He said, lighting a Montecristo cigar.

He dropped his torch lighter into an open box of the cigars and grinned at me with the cigar hanging out of his mouth. "Want one?" "No."

"Things gonna get a little hairy between you and the others or are ya going to let all that go? What happened back there?" He asked.

"Don't know," I replied, noticing the grenades in the door. "Isn't that dangerous?" I asked pointing them out. "Hell yes," he laughed.

We drove all night. I slept. Figured they would have killed me by now. Woke up to them screaming all around me and laughing. I jumped.

"What the hell is wrong with you?" I yelled back. They were all laughing like it was the funniest thing they ever saw. "Morons," I yelled.

"Hey. You're going to hurt someone's feelings," this athletic looking guy stated. He grinned proud of himself. "I'm used to the quiet."

Got out, grabbed my bag. Dog was grinning, taking a dump on the hot pavement of a mall parking lot. I scanned it. Didn't see the dead.

"Leave the bag. Take some weapons and ammo. We're going in for supplies." The leader stated. He had a beer in his hand. This was crazy.

11 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

Entered the mall, front entrance abandoned. Music calling out from different stores. Broken glass & store goods scattered all over.

We went to the store location map, a red marker was used to give directions. "We need, food, water, any weapons, clothes." The list went on.

"Teams of two, one front one back, watch out for each other," the leader stated. "You," he pointed at me, "with me, fun begins now."

How fun could this be, a location that may have hundreds if not more of the dead just waiting for some unlucky bastards to walk into them.

This is the dead's turf, guns or not this was going to be hard if not impossible to get out with all the numbers who came in.

"Pharmacy," he points, "food, medical's, hygiene," he raises his eyes. "Food for the dog," I told him. He nods. Something moves in an aisle.

"Watch my back," he checks his clip on the silenced gun and moves into the store, I enter behind him and see at least 5 Zombie's.

He holds up 3 fingers then two, aims his gun. I aim."One," he says. The bullets took their resting places in the skulls of the dead.

Continued on, checking each aisle. 3 more, one had a festering bite on his cheek, bag on his shoulder full of supplies. Same idea as us.

We put them down and filled two shopping carts of needed supplies, Found dog food, bless expanding businesses for that. A whine calls out.

"Alive?" I asked. "Lets find out." Another team takes out carts to the truck and we track the sound. Coming from a bathroom, door locked.

A gurgle sounded out, what ever is in there must be dead. looked at the lock, key broken off in the slot, pointed it out & went on our way.

Shots rang out from another area, the others cheering. Leader shakes his head, "They can be idiots at times, lets move." Ran to join them.

A wave of the dead swarming from some music store, the others firing into them, "The heads," I screamed, "aim for the damn heads."

We took them all out, a couple zombies coming out from other stores to get us from other sides but we were unscathed. "Idiots," I said.

"Hey man," the athletic guy says, "I need some new tunes, got to enjoy the small stuff, or we're just like them," he points to the dead.

"Get some good stuff," another called out. I stood and watched as they raided the music store. A weird almost groan echoes from somewhere.

"That does not sound good." I said. The leader and I led the others around the mall checking out the stores and taking out the dead.

Got tons of supplies and music for those who needed it. Never found anyone alive, disconcerting. How many could still be alive and where.

On one of the entrances, plastic sheets and a quarantine sign, they didn't finish putting it up, Everybody just stared at each other.

People in hazmat suits dead on the ground with holes in their bodies. The plastic masks splattered in blood. "Lets go," I told them.

Didn't want to stick around and find out what happened, some of them were totally freaked out. We got out of the mall back at our vehicles.

The dog was in the window wagging his tail happy to see me. Maybe being with a team could be beneficial. "lets dig out," the leader ordered.

12 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

After hitting the mall and finding no water it was decided to find a local grocery store and hope we get to it before any-one else.

The area was sparse of anything but cars. No signs of the dead or alive. Positioned the vehicles and got our weapons ready.

The grocery store doors open, two men with rifles and a family behind them exit, the women have carts filled with supplies. We all froze.

They were surprised to see other people still alive. "Please don't try anything," one of the guys says. "We got kids and women who need us."

The leader raised his hands, "put the guns down, we'll make a deal nothing has to happen." They kept the guns aimed, us with our guns aimed.

"We need water," I said "we can share rather then kill each other." We all just stared at each other unsure of what will happen.

Loud bells begin ringing, looked around, a church across the road. The family bursts towards their minivan supplies with them.

Zombies rushing from buildings and side streets, so many of them. I jumped on the truck and aimed the turret. Some already too close to hit.

The leader used his assault rifle, cut down a number of them. The minivan rushes away slamming through the dead in a race to escape.

The athletic guy walks forward blowing them away laughing. He reloads his gun like a pro. Took out a a lot of them. There was way too many.

The others stood close taking them out. The athletic guy runs back to the truck a zombie with half of his head blown off right behind him.

Too close for the turret I yelled and pointed it out to the others, he was in the way of the shot. They screamed at him to get down.

At the front of the red truck, 30 of freaking dead lunge at him, He's pulled down hard face bouncing off the ground. They tried to save him.

Just too many, only able to put down a few, the damage had been done, blood in his mouth, bites all over. He was gone, an infected.

"Get in the truck," the leader yelled. The others went for the red truck, couldn't pass the zombies and their infected friend, we left it.

Supplies, gear, and most of the guns. The leader drove and me on the turret shot down any I could. Aimed for their heads, some exploded.

The damn bells finally stopped. Lost a guy. They acted very strange. "What now," one of them asked the leader, he just starred at him.

With no dead in sight I got in the truck. "What's going on?" I asked the leader. He was uneasy "Don't freak out," he said.

"Jacob back there, was the one who knew where the island cottage was. It was his uncle's who was in the army or something," the leader said.

"Oh my god what are we going to do, we're all going to die here," one of the guys said. It was crowded in the truck with so many of us.

"Shut up," the leader told him, "we just need a new plan." I couldn't believe this, just when I thought my luck was getting better.

13 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

The family from the grocery store pulls along side of us, "we need to talk," a woman said, hanging from her window. They must be desperate.

We stopped at a park and ride. All of us got out, we searched, made sure no dead were around. Found 6 of them, some sitting in their cars.

"It's not safe for us to travel, we don't have your kind of weapons," the older man said. He seemed nervous, always looking around.

One of my team was just staring at them, his eyes glassy. It looked like he could break at any second. I wondered what was bothering him.

"So what you guys want guns?" The leader asked. The older man looked at his family, his wife I think took his hand. "Not exactly,' she said.

"Listen," the older man said. "We have nowhere to go, a family to protect, we have two rifles a revolver and supplies."

"I told against better judgement. We need more then surviving, we need safety and we can all have that with greater numbers," old man said.

"Okay listen," the leader said. "It will be more dangerous for your family coming with us, we go places, some of them filled with the dead."

"We should talk about it," the emotional guy from our team said. "Come on guys, lets give them a chance, that girl looks like my sister."

"Damn Cole," the leader said, "you could have waited until we stepped away," he looks to Cole. "It needs to be more than that."

"No it doesn't, they are people and so are we. If we let them ride off alone then we're no better than the fucking zombies." Cole was angry.

"We got lots of water, being together, we will share what we have if you do the same. And hey some of us are good shots," the old man said.

The leader looks to me, searching for advice, maybe hoping I would tell them to move on after what I've been through. But I Couldn't.

"We join up," I told them. I know this could turn out bad, but like Cole I have a sister out there somewhere, hopefully alive and safe.

There was still some tension and I stepped up. "Could use a drink," I said. The old man nodded and went to get the water. BANG a shot rang.

I grabbed my chest fearing the worst. The teenage girl had the revolver in hand aiming away. "Those fucking things are all over," she said.

Her smile was wicked, the dead bastard fell to the ground, he had a construction workers hat on, covered in blood and his head blown apart.

This was going to work out, she was a dead on shot, better than some of the team. "Shot can's for years. I love guns," she said with a grin.

Traded some guns, food & music, guess it did come in handy. Sorry Jacob wish you made it, only got to know your name after you were gone.

"We need a place to regroup," I told them. "The Fire station's not far," the old man said, "should be hard for the dead to get it."

I looked to the leader and he nodded, "okay, we head to the fire station." We got in our vehicles and hit the road. With the van beside us.

I was on Turret, could only hope the fire station would be safe, I know once it was cleared I could lock it up good. But for how long.

14 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

We drove there. Nailed some dead on the way. The family following behind. That girl is a great shot. Not bad at all. Cole watching her.

The fire station had cement road block barriers blocking entrance. There were six armed men on the roof brandishing AK47's. Motorcycles.

Bikes outlining the yard. Don't know what Club. They took aim at us on sight. Got on the Turret right away. They watched.

Leader stopped the vehicle and looked up at me. "Don't take your eyes off of them." I shook my head. "This don't feel right. Who are they?"

"Don't know," he said, taking a deep breath. "No one we want trouble with. Judging by them bikes, there's a lot of em we can't see."

Garage door slid open and five guys walk out with AK 74's. One of them leading the way. "Ya'll jus git!" He yelled, aiming right at me.

"We're just trying to find safety lad. We don't want any trouble," heard a voice say. Old man did not stay in his van. The biker grins.

He was lookin right passed the old man. The van. "The girl. Give her up and we'll let ya leave alive," he demanded through his evil face.

Saw her sitting there. Shorts on and a tank top. Boots. Young. I knew what would happen to her if he got her. "Can't," I said.

More bikers came out. There had to be at least 30 of them. A woman came striding out, dressed like a fire woman. She had bruises. "Please."

She was begging. "Git her inside, check on the others," the biker barked. "How many friends you have in there?" I asked. He looked up at me.

"Lot's," he laughed. Overplayed it. He's lying. I can always see the face you hide from everyone. Even when you bastards lie to me. Truth.

I couldn't say anything else. They were gonna kill us, take our stuff, hurt the girls. In that order. Had to make a decision now.

I looked down at the leader. His eyes on them. Holding a Grenade from the door. Turned the turret and ended it before it started. Sad.

Didn't forget the guys on the roof. They tried to run but you can't outrun this thing. Crashed up a fire engine inside pretty good too.

"Inside, the dead will come!" I yelled. Our people ran. Feels weird saying it in my head. A little while ago, I thought I was alone.

They grabbed the guns. The vehicle pushed aside a barrier with ease. Well it did dent the front a bit. We were inside closing the gate.

We didn't know what was waiting in here for us. More bikers? We knew they were keeping people against their will. I hate that shit.

15 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

They were just going to walk right into the rest of the station. I blocked them off and closed the garage door. Said "Shhh."

"We need a plan. There could be more in there." Before I could continue, Cole had one of the biker's vests on. He was grinning.

We opened the heavy metal door and walked into the station from the garage. Sure enough there was a man standing there, holding an axe.

I looked at him, he looked at us. "You're not one of them," he stated. "No. Are there anymore?" "No," he replied. Lowering the axe.

"Where are the rest of the people they were holding?" The leader asked. Cole grabbed his arm. "Dom, this doesn't feel right. Be careful".

"Dom, huh?" I said. "Yep Dominic Satoro," he said. "Savage Klaxon," I replied, shaking his hand. Cole stared at us until we moved on.

We followed the burly axe holding man through the filthy twists and turns of the office. Supplies and garbage everywhere. "What a pigsty."

The man just grinned and led on. "You a firefighter?" Dom asked. "Something like that," he said coming to a locked room. "They're in here."

"Open the door," Dom said, pointing. "Can't don't have the key," he replied. "Where is it?" I asked. "One of them bikers took it."

I ripped the axe away from him and shoved him back, tossing it over to Cole. Had my trusty multi-tool and the door open in no time.

When we entered the room we found, men, women, and children all sitting on the floor. There were boxes piled up along the walls for storage.

The woman I saw in the garage who begged for help stood up. Her blonde lochs cascaded over her shoulders. "You did it. Thank you," she said.

When the fireman who had the axe stepped in, I could see some of the people shocked. I turned and socked him in that sweet spot in the jaw.

The bastard didn't fall down. Some of the women screamed. He speared me to the ground. I felt his monstrous fist crash into my ribs.

Loud thud and the giant of a man collapsed over me. He was pulled away and the quiet guy from the red truck helped me up. He smiled.

"Glad you're not alone now?" He asked, nodding to me. I was. I didn't tell him though. "McKinley," he announced. We shook hands. "Thanks."

I looked down at the big guy. "Why did you attack him?" McKinley asked. I saw their faces. I know a problem when I see one. "Instinct."

"He's one of them. He dresses like that to fool others. Some of these people know that," the blonde woman stated, pointing down at him.

16 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

My new 'FRIENDS' pulled that guy into the room. We came around some old tables and I saw a young man laying on the floor. He was pale.

Shivering, breathing shallow. Saw this before. I stepped back. "GET AWAY FROM HIM!" a man yelled. The crazy fool attacked me. He struck me.

Instinct kicked in. Grabbed his arm and flipped him on the floor. People screamed. Some bolted out the door. This was bad, If they got out.

I knew Zombies would be everywhere out there. They had to hear us from before. Even with the suppressors. The bikers made a lot of noise.

We had a lot of scared people about to turn on us. Dom pulled me back from the man and looked down at the boy. "Damn it!" He swore, knowing.

"Keep away from my son," the man shouted. "He's infected," I yelled. "I know. I'll do it when the time comes. You don't touch him."

"It's gotta be now. He's gonna mark somebody," Dom warned. "I can't," he cried. "Take him outta here," Dom commanded. I grabbed the man.

"No," Dom called. "We'll take the boy outside. Then this coward can watch him turn from the roof. Go ahead. Put that boy through that pain."

"You don't understand..." The man whined. "The hell I don't," Dom said. "I lost everyone I ever knew to this toilet of a world. Saw death."

"Dom!" Cole called. "They got the door open. They're running into the street. The dead are coming and we got no one on guns."

17 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

The chaos wrecked through everyone like an unseen force, zombie gurgling and moaning out, the scent in the air unbearable. I checked my gun.

"Savage, get to the roof," Dom ordered. "The turret," I yelled back. He stared at me, "I'll take your back, guys lets go," Dom called.

We quickly went to the garage, door wide open zombies in the entrance, one of them wearing a fireman uniform. He tried to come back home.

Dom took out the fireman and three others attracted by the sound entered. "Dammit who the hell decided to run, they should be shot."

Zombies polluted the streets, I have no idea why they all headed this way but wanted to take them out before it was too late for us.

Cole at my side the other guys rushing up and breaching the garage door, shots ringing out, clips being changed and zombies falling.

I leapt onto the turret truck, my team taking my back. The dead were falling like flies, some getting back up from our hasty attacks.

"In the fucking heads," I yelled. "Don't waste the ammo." Dom got on the back of the truck grabbing a centurion arms MK12K, boss gun.

Heads imploded from Dom's shots. Hit the turret and tore the dead apart. The teen girl from the van joined us, I nodded to her awesome aim.

"Get back in the station," someone yelled. I saw a few of the people who ran were swarmed by the dead, some crying out in helpless horror.

"Fuck," one of the team yelled, "the old guy from the van got bitten." The teen girl screamed and ran to the old man, "No!" She cried.

This could only go more down hill. His wife nowhere to be seen, the teen girl took him back into the station and the door began to close.

18 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

"Get in," Dom yelled, "We can't fight them all." I grabbed some bags and got in before the door closed all the way. The others followed.

"I don't know where it came from," the old man said. The teen girl held onto him. "What am I supposed to do?" The old man cupped her face.

"You know what will happen next, I'm going to go soon," the old man told her. He looked around and lowered his head, not finding his wife.

Someone slammed into the door from the outside, I feared one of the team was still out there and ran to check. Old man's wife was outside.

Her arms swinging into the door, part of her face pulled back. Shit, she was dead, how the hell did that happen. "Karen," the old man said.

He was right beside me looking at his wife, tears in his eyes. "God," hand on the window looking out at her. "I love you," he said.

"Give me the revolver," he told the teenage girl. "I'm going out there," his eyes glassy, turning a murky white. She handed him the gun.

The other man from his van came forward, "you don't have to do this!" He yelled. "Damn right I do," he shot back. "I won't leave her."

He took out all but two bullets and went out the door shoving her back as he exited. Bang! She fell, he didn't look back, kneeled by her.

I heard him cry out then the second shot. The teen girl grabbed onto my arm, her grip hard, she pushed her face into my shoulder and cried.

19 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

That was hard. Kept seeing that old man's face. He was very brave. It must have taken everything inside him to do what he did.

Heard the dead all night, made it impossible to sleep. I searched the fire-station, looking for anything that maybe useful, axes & tools.

At morning Discussions began about what our plans were, some people from the fire station wanted to come with us. Not sure if they should.

Weapons, supplies, food, no idea of what to do next, I brought up the loss of gear and weapons. "We should go back for the red truck."

"No way," one of the team said, "I'm not risking my ass." I shook my head. "Listen we'll need ammo, we can't get it everywhere," I said.

"You want to backtrack?" Dom asked. "Fuck yeah, we need the guns, the ammo. The water we accumulated." Cole looked at me, he didn't agree.

Argued back and forth, not many agreeing with me. This is the team dynamic, they may want to play it safe, but I know how to survive.

"We need guns, I will go back. I'll take a vehicle in the lot," I told them. "Savage," Dom called, "you can't. These people need you here."

"You pulled me from my safe house, I was safe and you guys came destroyed everything I had. I'm trying but COME ON DOM! we need to go back."

Large trucks roared close, at first I thought they were buses. Sirens called out. They were purposely calling out the dead. Crazy fools.

Loud gun shots rang, ear piercing. "KILL THEM ALL!" A woman calls on a speaker. We went to the windows. Big black trucks & armed forces.

They were definitely Mercenaries. They shot all the zombies. "Fire station to the left," the speaker woman called out. "Investigate."

"Do we stay?" a woman from the fire station asked. "no way," I told her, not after the things I've witnessed. They were not here for saving.

"We should go around back and take their truck," one of the guys from the fire station said, I looked at him. "Aiden," he said. "We should."

"They're coming this way. Everybody in the back. Savage hope you locked this place up good," Dom said. They moved into the back, praying.

I covered the turret truck with fire blankets and hid along the wall, they tried the doors. Banged on windows. Heard them talk of tools.

"Mark it on GPS, Team 2 needs back up," the speaker woman ordered. They rushed to their trucks, one came back and placed a beacon.

People that were in the station must have went out a back door, they came around the building and ran to the trucks "HELP US," they cried.

The mercs didn't even think twice they opened fire and shot them all dead. "FUCK!" Dom yells. "Those pricks will pay. Savage on turret."

Had no idea what he planned. Jumped on turret and cole opened the doors, he rolled out. "Fire!" Dom ordered. I did as told. Aimed and shot.

One of the trucks sped away not wanting a battle. Took out a whole crew, didn't even think about it. They deserved what they got.

Cole led the team to their truck found two more, they gave up, tossed their weapons. "You don't know who you're fucking with," one said.

"You killed them," I pointed. The teen girl jumped on the truck, "You're fucking awesome on this thing." She smiled and smacked my ass.

I looked at her, unsure. Aiden jumped in their truck, "taking out their GPS and the trackers. They won't find us." Dom gathered the others.

"This is the point of no return with us or stay. We're taking their truck." "Back to GPS 16 we were attacked," speaker woman ordered.

20 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

It was people like them that made me sick of this hell hole in the first place. Dressing up like heroes and killing the innocent. JUST SICK!

This was GPS 16. How many more did they have? How many other assholes were driving around out there dressed like soldiers, killing families?

Found the dog almost hiding under the seat in the truck with the turret. Again, happy to see me. Don't know if all this will last.

Before they burnt down my home I was just surviving. Now I'm a killer. They made me take lives of the living. This wasn't about the dead.

I could feel it black on my soul. Damn spot that will never go away. Petting that dog and standing my ground isn't gonna make it go away.

There we were, the new assault vehicle. The Turret. Couple vans with a bunch of strangers. All possibly following us into doom.

The teen girl was right next to me, holding her firearm like Dirty Harry. She was silent, staring off into the streets littered with dead.

I wondered if the girl cracked. I think she may have lost everyone close to her. Been there, even before all this walking dead shit started.

Why did I push so many people away? Didn't trust anyone. Didn't let anyone love me. I got what I wanted, I was alone. No worries, no pain.

Guess they heard the trucks cause those scum sucking bottom feeders started coming out of the wood works. Crashing through stores, and etc.

I started taking them down. The girl firing, not bad, conserved ammo like a pro. Too many video games. The awesome power of the new truck.

Made swiss cheese out of those walking mold bags. That's not nice to say. Some of those zombies were people once. Not their fault.

We knew there were other's somewhere out there, looking for people just like us. SURVIVORS. They would kill us and take what we have.

The plan was to try and get the other truck. As far as we could tell there were at least two in the area, judging by the radio chatter.

If we took em out, we would have three assault trucks. That would help us double back to the bus where I had the bag of ammo. Then onwards.

We will go to the red truck, only they didn't know it yet. Dom was against it. Bullets are hard to come by out here. Stores were raided.

21 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

I don't know how but them bastards in death spitting trucks tracked them. Night had fell on us like a hammer. At first we couldn't see.

Thank god for night vision scopes and goggles. Fake soldiers have all the coolest toys. Didn't help seeing through the creepy fog though.

Fog, mist or what ever you want to call it always seems to linger around at night. I have a theory it has something to do with the dead.

Their bodies would disappear in floating white over broken streets. It made them hard to see but we could still smell them. Hear em' too.

I was looking through the new goggles Dom gave me. Little dials and gages, who the hell knows what all that stuff means? I saw things.

They were limping, crawling, stalking. They were on rooftops, in the trees, and even walking right up to us. We had to pick our moment.

One shot at the wrong time and were gonna be swarmed with the walking dead. They would pull and bite us. EAT US! and that's it, all over.

Kept my aim on one. If I didn't know any better, Id say he was hopping. He was at a park. It might have been a child. Weirdest thing I saw.

BOOM! The girl fired. One had gotten so close in the fog, I could see his rotting corpse right beside the truck.

We rode over the Zombie's skull, crushing it like a grape. Lot's of them were coming out now. Killed at least 17 myself.

Teen girl took 8 for sure. Only saw her reload once. Before she was all smiles. Since the old man did the right thing, she was all business.

we came out over a small bridge. Overlooked a store lined street below. Looks like someone had already pushed all the cars out of the way.

We heard shots fired. No zombies to see up here. There were a lot down there. All hoarded up in one spot, swarming like a pile of maggots.

We could hear em' eating. Girl's face twisted into disgust. Could hear someone from the vans, puking his guts out. This is why I'm alone.

One of them zombies on the top of the pile reared his ugly head and looked right up at us sitting ducks, idol on the bridge. He howled.

Some of them started returning the call from far away. The radio came on. I could hear a woman screaming. It chilled me to the bone.

"THEY'RE COMING!" She screamed. Saw light flickering on the second floor of a near by store. It was swarming with them, screaming evil.

The zombies in the pile cleared away and started running for the bridge, right at us. I turned the guns and let em have it.

They fell away like bunnies and ducks at the fair. Under the living dead pile was one of the assault vehicles. Poor bastards finally bit it.

I heard some of the strangers with us screaming. I turned the guns around and found them being pulled out of the last van by the dead.

The bridge was quickly being covered. If I shot at the van I would kill em all. Was it better than being eaten? I asked myself. Maybe.

Before I could do anything, Dom and the other's led an attack on foot. Machetes and guns flaring. They cut through them pushing them back.

MY GOD, the van was empty. They were gone. I could see the blank look on the girl's face. Heard the shots from the assault vehicle.

DAMN ZOMBIES were coming up the other side. They were coming right at us. This wasn't a battle. It was a war. They were coming in waves.

22 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

"GRENADES!" Dom yelled. I looked at the girl, "in the door, get them." She got them fast and tried handing them to me. I turned the guns.

"GET DOWN!" I yelled. Some listened but the dead drowned me out with their noises. I cut a lot of them down then grabbed the grenade from her.

Hoped that all I knew of these little monsters was true. Held the little death in my throwing hand, twisted and pulled the safety pin out.

Then over-arm threw the grenade into the largest group of the walking dead, "FIRE IN THE HOLE!" The team turned tail and ran from the swarm.

The grenade bounced off a zombie's head, I was shocked it didn't explode. It twisted in the air and landed at their feet. I was mortified.

It exploded, like a rush of water the dead flew into the air and crashed back to the ground. Some of them into pieces. Tossed another one.

Team made it to the trucks, reloaded and continued the war. They wouldn't stop coming the frecking dead. I shot up as many as I could see.

It all seemed hopeless, an unending fight. Like a video game with fast respawn rates. The girl watched my back pointing the dead out to me.

Rain came at us out of nowhere, the weather seemed to take a down turn. Made it harder to see but was washing the heat and the smell away.

The rain messed with the dead, they became disoriented like their senses were messed up. Took the advantage. "GET IN THE FUCKING TRUCKS."

Not sure who all got in where but we started moving. Never stopped firing. The truck bounced smashing over the dead like hitting pylons.

Some of them got caught in the wheels, could feel it. One lifted over the truck and landed on the turret. The girl booted him off the truck.

Right side of the truck lifted high in the air, I grabbed on and tried to shove it back level to no success. It tipped over in a loud crash.

23 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

Vibrations woke me, have no idea what happened or how long I was out. The girl was on the turret with the truck on its side, what a sight.

Something moved, turned to see a zombie crawling towards me with no legs and missing an arm. His face covered in bites, its eyes all white.

I checked my body for one of the guns, BANG. Dom stood next to me, his arm obviously broken. Blood on his face, gun in his hand. "Savage,"

He was shoved down from behind, I yanked my gun free and shot three of the dead that were rushing us. One of our claimed trucks came closer.

The once strangers piled out, guns booming, the dead falling. Hands grabbed at me, they were warm, so I knew it wasn't a walking dead.

Heard the voice over the radio again, she chimed about something but I couldn't make it out. She yelled this time. "You people form ranks."

"GET UP, FIGHT, TAKE OUT THE BRIDGE," She demanded. One of the team pulled me up, he grinned. "Never disappointed before, get the grenades."

"Noah," Dom yelled, "Lets do it." They grabbed grenades and marched behind us at the largest group of the dead. They tossed the grenades.

The explosions shook the bridge. "HEY! We need to get off here first," I screamed. The teen girl came to me, "Glad you're okay," she said.

I nodded to her and grabbed the radio from the tactical truck. "Where are you?" I asked the woman. "GET OFF THE BRIDGE MORON," she sang.

What the hell were we doing? Only forward or back a bad spot to be. "Listen from my vantage point I can see more coming," she said. "Move!"

Cole came to the group that formed around me, he had the dog in his arms, barking and whining. Shots sounding all around us. Hard to think.

Others heard her orders, no-one was sure what should be done. I knew the only way to survive was to keep going. "GUNS THIS WAY," I moved.

Led them forward shooting, some stayed to watch Dom and Noah's back. The bridge rumbled and a column fell away down into the street below.

We cut row after row down of the walking dead. Could hear the trucks at our backs. Dom and two others bringing the vehicles with us.

The turret truck had winch wires on it, it dragged off the bridge pushing the dead like a shovel to snow. Noah shot at a pile of grenades.

The bridge exploded at our backs sending dust and and debris into the air. The teen girl in front of me shooting the dead like at an arcade.

Held the radio from the mercenaries truck and spoke into it. "What now?" It was silent, we were in a street dead all around us, more coming.

24 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

Lights flashing down the street, a truck was coming, gunning its way closer. I could only think of getting to higher ground. Vantage point.

"How many are you?" The woman over the radio asked. I looked around knew not to tell her the numbers. "Where do we go!" She went quiet.

Couldn't wait, heard a couple guns click empty. Glanced around only light was coming from one building, everything else was dark and empty.

Problem was, store was surrounded by the dead, some on the first floor. The truck turned down towards the store. They hopped out shooting.

One got too close and a group of zombies pulled him to the ground feasting on him like a pack of wild dogs. Saw his hands yank at a grenade.

The shock force sent the zombies into the air as the grenade exploded, the merc's flew backwards smacking into their truck and the ground.

Ran forward and shot as many of the zombies as I could making my way into the building, teen girl at my back, hopefully the others too.

Something grabbed at my leg, I aimed down. It was a guy in body armor. "Help!" he pleaded. I grabbed him and dragged his body to the stairs.

Dom lifted the guys other arm and we carried him up the stairwell. The door had bars on it, a new decoration. Banged on the door hard.

Body armor guy grabbed his cellphone and texted something, the door swung open, guns in our faces. "FUCK!" They tried to close the door.

Aiden threw himself into the door, he winced against the bars but wedged it open. We piled into the doorway forcing ourselves into the hall.

They moved back still aiming their guns, unable to shoot. "CUT IT OUT!" A woman ordered. "Everybody get in here and shut the fucking door."

She led us to a room, it was bare. "You have something of ours," she said. She was the woman on the radio. Something moved upstairs.

She glanced up, then back at us. "Your people killed some of us." She didn't even try to look shocked. "The things we have is payment."

Guns never went down, we held our stance still holding one of theirs. Others started coming in the room, the dog leapt from Cole and barked.

One of them aimed at the dog, I dropped my side of the armored guy and socked the bastard aiming at my dog. He hit the ground like a brick.

Somebody shot, I hit another and another. Grabbed the woman and pulled her into me, she struggled but I wrapped my arm around her throat.

Her back against my chest, held her tight in my grip, she struggled but I wouldn't let go. "Okay," I said. "Now its time to make a deal."

25 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

They all took aim at me. "I can take him cap," this big black guy said looking down at me from his tall stance. "I'll shoot her," I said.

"Fuck do you want?" She cried out. "Just time to think and move on. That's all," I said. "Like hell. You got our guns," Black guy said.

"You led us here on the radio," I stated. The radio sounded again. "Where the hell did you go? More came. Are you still alive?"

We all stared at each other. This was not the woman who talked us off the bridge. "Answer her," Dom stated, rising his gun at her.

I shoved her forward, letting go of my bargaining chip and answered the radio. "We're here. We're alive. Where are you?"

26 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

A rumble shook the whole street. The lights flickered and then went out. We all stood there in the dark barely able to see each other.

Saw flickering reflection of fire from the street outside. It danced on the glass of thick window. Something was burning, we could smell it.

"I'm on Toreg and spark ST." The radio Bawked. I searched the eyes of these strangers in the dark. They wanted to know who this person was.

Brought the radio up to my face and pushed the button. "I'm in some kind of office building near the bridge," I claimed.

The static sound echoed in the small long room. More creaking upstairs. The same woman I just held captive, moved closer to me.

Radio came on again, making us all jump. "You need to get out of there. I just took a look and the whole place is surrounded by crawlies."

Dom shrugged at me and came closer. "The dead?" I asked. "Yeah," the voice replied. "There's gotta be at least a hundred, maybe more."

A thud made us look up. I turned the light on my gun and aimed at the ceiling. Everybody gasped. A dead milky eye watched us through a hole.

The smell was so bad, I choked. It watched and snarled. It scratched the floor trying to get at us. It wanted to kill us and eat us.

The building shook again. Some of the children screamed. Dust fell from the ceiling and the wall came down right behind them. THE DEAD.

They came right through the drywall. They must have been just hanging out there licking their chops, listening to our voices.

Shoved as many people as I could towards the only door. Dom turned and opened fire, taking out the big window. Glass everywhere. Screaming.

People were being taken down in the dark. Hands on me, couldn't tell who was alive or dead. I saw the teen girl getting cornered. Opened fire.

Most of us didn't make it out of the building. Hope they never rise infected. The teen girl tight in my grip. I shoved her out of the way.

Started thinning the flock. MY GOD, so many. Standing in the street, all around the vehicles. Even the new one uncovered. We were lost.

There was no way to get to any of the vehicles. People were being eaten. It was a nightmare. WHY DID I LET THEM BURN DOWN MY HOME?

27 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

Buildings in the row we just happened to be standing by were burning down. Pieces of flaming wreckage was falling into the street.

It was chaos, most of the survivors were running off on their own in all directions. I walked, shooting my way, trying to find safety.

The radio chirping, not sure what it was saying. Not sure where everyone was. My foot hit something. An AK47 from the fire station.

Before I could blink, the teen girl had it tight in her grip. She was trying to control the spray of death, lifting her arms with each pull.

Bullets whizzed by us, spraying infected blood and body parts over the already wet pavement. We kept walking. Shooting, watching them die.

Dom was at our backs now. He was throwing what was left of his grenades into the crowds of the dead. I shot a parked car across the street.

The parked car's car alarm went off, crying out into the sea of the dead. Soon it was surrounded, being swarmed by the dead things.

Cole had the dog wrapped under his arm. He was being surrounded. The roar of an engine grabbed us, even the zombies. A large bus pulled up.

Guns sticking out of the sides, firing into the crowd of the dead. The side doors opened. A tall muscular woman reached her hand out.

"Women and children first," she screamed. The buss started rocking. "There's too many!" A voice screamed from inside. She was yanked out.

They devoured her in seconds. The dead started boarding the open bus. We helped as best as we could. We were running out of ammo.

Just as we rounded the corner only to find more of the dead, a large metal door opened on a warehouse. A man in body armor waved at me.

"COME ON!" He yelled, "RUN!" Metal shutters on the second level opened and men with AR 15's Fired into the dead. All that was left of us...

He smacked us on the back as we entered the building. I looked back, thankful to see so many familiar faces of those who made it.

The dog got the most attention, people talked about their pets and how they had dogs as kids. The dog loved it. Someone asked his name.

Unsure of what to say I changed the subject. The guy who let us in showed us where some food and drink was, "My name's Camron," he told us.

"You need anything or talk to someone, don't hesitate to ask," Camron continued. Another man in body armor searched us with his dark eyes.

Both Dom and I noticed. The dark eyed man was lean, also in body armor. He saw us then stepped off for other tasks. Not sure about this.

The presence in the room was slightly uneasy. Could hear the gurgling of the dead outside. "Wish this place was sound proof," Camron said.

Doors opened at the other end of the room, a woman & a couple others walked in with her. She surveyed us, "you will need to earn your keep."

28 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

"Glad to see you made it alive," she continued. She was talking to me like she knew me. "Who are you?" I asked her. "Your radio friend."

We stared at each other. "You were screaming for help," I stated. "I was across the street in a surplus store at the time. Lost 3 men."

"You have all these people and all you took were three?" "Easier with few people. And this is everybody. As you see we're short an army."

She said army. I knew it. This had the stink of those raiders pretending to be army all over it. I looked around ready to fight.

"Look at him. READY. That's what we need around here. It's all I've been saying," she states, pointing at me. The men just nod at me.

All I could do was listen and wait. They gave us food. We even got to take showers and clean up. They gave us a chance to rest.

I didn't sleep much. Damn nightmares. I was playing catch with my dad. It was nice at first. His greying hair peaking out his cap. Smiles.

He'd throw the ball. I'd catch it and throw it back. I noticed the world burning down behind him. Him still smiling and tossing the ball.

There were a lot of things wrong with this dream. I never played catch with my dad in my life. I never saw him smile like that. The fire.

After a bit he started to talk. "You know I'm dead right?" "Yeah," I replied. "Why you playin catch with me?" He asked. "I don't know."

He looked up, I looked up. Planes falling out of the sky. Birds catching fire. Buildings crumbling. Blood raining down on us everywhere.

I was knocked to the ground. He was on top of me. His face decaying. "WATCH!" He rasped. He became dead in front of me then tried to bite.

My eyes shot open in the dark. Even after all that it was still the best sleep I had in months. Just once I want to sleep and wake up new.

29 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

Felt sluggish until I got some food, they had coffee. My radio friend came and sat beside me, she patted my leg and smiled. "Scarlett."

"My name is Scarlett. Savage right," she stated more than asked. "We need to get you guys making ammo." Heard cheering in my head.

She explained that they have the tools and supplies needed but low on hands, also it would be a good skill to get my people to learn.

Worked on making ammunition for hours, never can have too much in a time like this. Our once lack of ammo is a long lost worry.

Scarlett got us each holding an AR15. "Listen up. We need to make this work perfect. Training is key to all our survival. March forward."

Training became repetitive, all of us Scarlett's and my people all doing the shooting line. "Retreat, forward, one on the left. rooftop."

Everyone was getting familiar with holding the guns and moving as a team. You wouldn't think it to be hard, but moving together takes skill.

A guy in armor bursts into the room. "Possible breach left side windows." Someone screamed, a horrible guttural cry. I think it was a woman.

"Savage, with me," Scarlett ordered. Put a full clip in the AR15 and followed her running to the scream. Shots cried out with a bang.

We entered the doorway a window to the far side was broken, plastic tarps blowing in the wind. "What the hell," Scarlett growled.

The guy who informed us entered the room. "Two people are missing. They never checked in this morning." Searched but found no dead anywhere.

Scarlett led me to a supply room she closed the door and leaned her head against the wall. "The missing people, they fled last night."

She was pissed, maybe even sad. "Going after them?" I asked. "No. They're already dead. Team on the roof spotted their bodies."

"They complained about hearing the zombies out there. the sounds they make the smell." I thought I should say something, but nothing came.

What should I do tell her everything will get better, well it isn't, dead all around us. No way to tell how longer we could last like this.

"Everyone needs to know how these guns react when fired," I told her, "we can go to the roof, stand our line and cut the walking dead down."

30 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

We went up to the roof, the dead gurgling and making weird noises. Some got right freaked out. Went to the edge and looked out at them.

So many I gave up on counting, some crawling towards the building all of them out there, staring at us, smelling us or something.

"Fire-line, forward," Scarlett ordered, "check guns, aim," she waited. We all aimed. "Fire." She raised her gun, joined us in the shooting.

The walking dead formed pile after pile of bullet ridden bodies. Some still moving. We unload so much ammo we all ended up making more.

It's mundane repeating the same thing over again, felt like them outside. "That's so gross," the teen girl said. Pulling me from my world.

I looked over to them all sitting around the same table making bullets. "Savage, come here," she called. I grabbed my stuff and joined them.

"We're talking about where we were when, you know, it happened," she continued. "Yeah," Cole said, "Katie here said she." Katie smacked him.

"I want to hear his first," Katie said. I looked at them unsure what details should I include. I've been here before telling zombie stories.

"Come on," Dom offered, "Lets hear it." That bastard putting me on the spot. "Fine, was at the movies. It was very hot, in a dark theatre."

"Oh shit," Noah said, "How did that go down?" Stared at him, "Went to see Avatar 2 opening night, so many people all over the place."

The memories flooded back, what a horrible place to be. I can always remember the smell, the chill I got after seeing the bite victim.

Don't think it was the first, close enough, never heard of it before that night. "The place was packed, feature presentations were rolling."

"A scream so loud, drowned out the Imax speakers. Someone leapt up from the floor level. Could see she was covered in blood from my seat."

Dom was just looking at me, the others all silent waiting to hear what happened. Something about Dom, he knew about this, was he there.

"Some boy in a wheel chair was swinging at her. other people got up went to her, thinking some accident happened. Others just frozen."

The woman I took captive in the other building had tears, was she being truthful, don't know. "One of them reached for the boy, he bit her."

"His head lunged at her, she never expected him to bite. She cried out and her husband leapt from his seat and grabbed onto her."

"Didn't think the bite was fatale but she collapsed fast, her husband freaking out and yelling on his phone. His lovely wife, dead."

"Nobody knew what was happening some assholes were yelling for silence so they can see the movie. Staff entered, ambulance was called."

"The guys wife started to get up, her eyes weird, foam at her mouth. She jerked towards the closest and sunk her mouth into the victim."

"The boy in the wheel chair got his 3rd victim now, one of the staff, a teenage girl," glanced at Katie. "Decided best to get the hell out."

"The front row was polluted with them, the victims I guess. They were acting weird. The boy chewing on a chunk of flesh. The others pale."

"They moved strange, the man was staring at his wife. She was biting another boy. Her face covered in blood." I hate remembering this.

"Not a lot of people made it out of there, got home, got prepared for some epidemic but something worse came. That's it," I wanted it over.

Scarlett entered, "Ready for round 2 of Zombie shoot down, winner gets a new gun," she waved a Heckler & Koch 416 assault rifle. "Lets go."

31 May myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

"Fifteen," Aiden called out. We were back on the roof taking the dead out as far as we could see. "27," Camron boasted. "39," Katie gloated.

Lost count how many I sunk, the dead were everywhere and my mind was elsewhere. Dom stayed silent after my story, he had to know something.

We cleared so many of them the streets looked like they were built of bodies. The smell got so bad a couple people vomited. Harsh times.

"Glad you're all having fun, we have a serious problem here," Scarlett informed us. "Hope you liked making all the ammo because we need it."

"The fire that went through here took out the power, this building has been running on generators and we have a couple hours of juice left."

The children that survived this long were not excited about not having power, some wailing others breaking down and sobbing. It was awful.

Got them busy preparing guns and supplies, told Scarlett she needs to have a better manner in a time like this. The kids need a barrier.

Dom was hanging around his team a lot more, staying away from me. Something needed to be done about that, I want someone watching my back.

"Our power will be gone soon, we need a place to go but there is nowhere for us to go," Scarlett said. She was right, What will happen now?

"Could we get more gas for the generators?" Aiden asked. "It may be a possibility, but how long can we stay here?" Scarlett asked.

It was decided first thing in the morning we would go out the front doors and fire-line our way to search for supplies. We needed a plan.

I was back at my apartment, the dog sitting at my feet. The TV was all snow, a low hum filled the air. Then it was quiet, eerie and still.

The dog tugged at my foot, I got him to stop. He leapt to his feet and grabbed onto my foot and tugged with all his strength pulling me.

I hit the floor. BANG. My eyes shot open a dead boy at my feet, his hands on my boot, face covered in blood. It looked like he was smiling.

1 Jun myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

I reached for my gun and he snarled at me. I felt him leap on top of me. BOOM! his body flew aside and crashed into the cement wall.

I grabbed my gun and faced him. Half his chest torn open, he still tried to crawl to me. I shot, tears in my eyes, I fired, sorrow in me.

It wasn't fair. He was one of the kids that survived all this time. We took them here. We pulled them in our run of death.

All this inside. I couldn't tell them. I couldn't talk about it. I felt like I was cracking. I couldn't hide here. No Apartment to drown in.

When I had my own place, I could close the shades. I could throw on a movie and forget about all this, numb myself even for just a while.

Out here, the dead are around you 24/7. Out here you kept seeing their faces. We were compromised now. More will turn and we have to wait.

I had to face these people every day knowing that any of them could suddenly lunge out at me and end what's left of my pitiful life.

All I want is things back the way they were before. It wasn't perfect, but at least I could sleep. God I miss normal dreams. Normal life.

Do you know how hard it is to hide your true feelings, your true thoughts all the time? I do. Letting a bunch of strangers know you is bad.

Sometimes when they turn, they remember stuff. They show up to kill family and friends. One day you might have to put someone you love down.

FUCKING ZOMBIES! What was I supposed to do with this? I had to survive. I had to put him down and now all the hard shit is coming.

We lined up, waiting to be checked. Naked, shivering on the roof. Looking for bites or signs of infection. People eating, drinking tainted.

There were so many deaths. I don't want to relive it. I know I started this thing to tell some survivors something if I didn't make it.

I wish I could get the visions out of my head. The smells. The cries. Parents lost their children. Children lost their loved ones. Too much.

I'm not ashamed to say I wept. I was alone when I did. Half of those we brought were infected. When we were rounded up was really bad.

We found six zombies wondering around. Turned and forever lost. That poor bastard who never said anything from the coke truck.

Dom wept. That quiet guy, was a girl. She dressed like a guy so she wouldn't get raped by raiders. He found her hiding in a building.

She was alone, injured, starving. He nursed her back to health and gave her some training. She had purpose. Now she was gone. He was alone.

The next couple of days were spent training those who can hold a gun. Many moments spraying into the dead. They were crowding around.

Two birds one stone. Clearing the way and teaching the young ones to shoot. Except for the circumstance, it was nice.

I found out the bus that was sent out, was sent by the people we were with. After the horde was thinned, we decided to go have a look.

Salvaging was a way of life now. You get used to it. Sometimes it could be gross, like taking some ammo off a dead body, or burning them.

We walked in a line, children, men, women, all stretched across the road. We had a reason to fight and a reason to live. We will survive.

I could see the bus. A few of the dead standing around. "Runnin hot." Katie screamed. The dead looked our way and were cut down by the guns.

The twitcher patrol walked ahead and made sure they were all put down with some new skull candy. Zombie brain surprise. Cold, I know.

We got to the gleaming bus, rusted with blood spattered over the frame. We could clearly see them moving about inside. Maybe three.

Dom lead the breach. I was right behind him. I didn't trust his judgment. He didn't sleep since the girl died. I know what that's like.

They were near the back of the bus. I could see some mags of ammo, on one the armored Zombies. They came to save us and died.

We put them down. Made sure they were dead and kicked em out the back door. I jumped out and saw something move from under a parked car.

I was alone back there. Bang! Infected brain matter exploded over the pavement. Katie stood only a few feet away, grinning back at me.

Sometimes they hide. They get someplace dark and they wait for you. On that walk back to your car. Back to your house. In your closet.

They come in your house when you're in weakness. You gotta be ready. Could be your uncle, your neighbor. Zombies remember and they come.

Life can be a fickle thing when you're unprepared. I heard a grunt. The top half of a woman, draggin her guts across the ashfault.

She came fast, I shot, missed her head. The dead bitch was heading right for Katie. Revenge. I was back in that theater again. SCREAMING!

The shit hole where I lost her. I unloaded a spray of bullets, destroying the dead crawling thing. I recognized her face too.

It was that poor woman on the bus, reaching her hand out to us. The woman who was brave enough to come and save our pitiful lives.

I told you the walking dead remember. She was torn apart, the infected come, even if there is just a little bit of them left. They drag on.

2 Jun myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

I was looking over some of the stuff I wrote here. I make some mistakes. We'll leave that shit to the editors of the world. I'll type.

All this time, It's hard to get away. Found a netbook a while back. Damn keyboard is small but I can still tell ya about this hell on it.

Eventually, we collected ammo and weapons off the lost and used our handmade ammo to cut away the rotting dead. Through the sea of flesh.

With the bus being driven behind us, we cut through them. We shot and killed the already dead. We destroyed the rotting carcasses twitching.

Seeing them kids firing their guns, seeing the knowing in their eyes that they WILL make it built a fire in me. I was tired, but I pushed.

We uncovered one of the army vehicles, lost to the raiders. The damn woman I once fought off and held for protection, right beside me.

I could see her eyes glass over. A man sat at the wheel. His face against the dash. As soon as we approached, he awakened. He moved.

Snarling in the window. The glass fogging over. DAMN ZOMBIES, GO BACK TO HELL! That voice screaming in my head: SHOOT! RUN!

She fell against the door. "No..." She cried. Her hand sliding over the glass. She was gone, couldn't hear us anymore. I seen it happen.

Something just snapped in her. She would never be the same. I grabbed her and pulled her back on the pavement. She stared at the truck.

Just saying "Charlie." Over and over again. "WHAT'S HER NAME?" I yelled. "Elise," one of her once soldiers called out. I looked at her.

"He's not coming back. That thing ain't him anymore. You know better than this. Now git yer sorry ass up and help me put that thing down."

Shaking her head she just babbled the name. I walked towards the door and opened it. I grabbed him by the leg and threw him on the road.

Many shots hit him from many guns in the hands of many people. She screamed out! wailing like a banshee. Calling all the horde to eat.

Soon I was on the line, my back against another, firing into the encroaching dead. They just kept coming like ocean waves. Sea of Zombies.

3 Jun myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

It was like watching an ant hill, zombies just kept coming. My gun clicked empty, the sound of doom. 5 of them seen me, no longer shooting.

They rushed towards me, my hands fumbled as I reloaded. One crawled under our bus and was trying to get into the open door, it had armor on.

Tried to get back to where it last remembered. I took care of the 5 in front of me, way too close for my liking. I missed the head on two.

One of their arms blown off, it still came at me. Katie walked closer aimed and blew his head apart. The other I put down. She smiled.

What a dark time on such a bright day. Sun sat high in the blue sky with thin clouds. It was warm. The sun had a downside it baked the dead.

The rotting corpses that were down for the count festered from the heat and caused the worst stomach turning smell I've ever experienced.

Over the sounds of shooting I hear the whine of a street bike. The zombies heard it too. A red Suzuki Hayabusa squealed around the corner.

The rider's talent showed in how he maneuvered around the dead. When one got too close he grabbed his shotgun and made them eat the shells.

Some of us tried to help, clearing a path for him to make it to our line. The zombies threw themselves in front of his bike and he flipped.

He got off a few shots but it wasn't enough. It became hard to witness so many people die at the hands of these infected walking dead.

One of Elise's once soldiers, a younger guy had seen enough. He shot himself, fell at my feet, he was already dead. Elise just stared.

Her eyes told the story, how much more can one person suffer before they can take no more. I touched her shoulder and she jumped. "Elise."

"We have to fight, you have to do this. For those we save." Was all I could come up with, I tried. Wanted to say more but what would it do.

She turned to the bus, needed to get out of here. I saw the look. Zombie was at the open door, it jumped at her taking Elise to the ground.

She screamed and everybody turned, no way could we shoot and not hit her. She bent her knees lifting the infected away from her. It gurgled.

She fought with it, her fists slamming into its face crushing bones. It clawed at her, breaking fingers on her armor. She wants to live.

Ran to her, grabbed its arms and pulled the zombie off of her. The thing howled in my grasp, calling others to help it. She yelled and shot.

The head exploded in front of me, my ears ringing. I turned my face when I saw her finger squeeze the trigger. Blood and brains scattered.

Dropped the zombie and staggered to her. She grabbed me and cried. She wasn't over, she was just beginning. A new fire in her, one to live.

4 Jun myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

Fought the dead with a hunger for survival. Didn't want to end up like them, nobody else wanted to either. Shot them all, a field of dead.

Elise led as we searched her once army truck. Got guns and ammo. After cleaning out the truck she wanted to command it, wanted me with her.

Scarlett walked to Elise, had some chosen words with her. A team was formed two good guns, a couple of the kids none of her once force.

This was Scarlett's command now, she spread friends apart so new bonds would be formed. I was in the bus, Dom also. Needed to know more.

We got to Dom's Turret truck, slowly approaching it. The dead were around it, some just laying in the street. They sat up when we got close.

Camron on the roof of the bus with a sniper rifle, he took them out in quick succession. Dom was eager to get to his truck, I followed him.

Katie and some others had our backs as we hooked up the winch wires. "What did you know about the theatre?" I asked him. Dom looked at me.

How he answered this would determine what kind of person he is, will he lie to me and break the bond we formed. Damnit I wanted answers.

"GET MOVING!" Scarlett yelled. "WE DON"T HAVE MUCH TIME." We got into position and Elise worked the winch, The truck flipped on its wheels.

Dom put his hand on me, "We'll talk," he looks around, "but not now and not here. We will find time, I have questions for you too Savage."

He yanks his gun free and blows away a deadling. "What the hell," Dom yells, "didn't any of you see that one." Katie was frozen crying.

This was right at the bridge, where so many were lost. Could she hold what strength she had left. "Are you staying on the bus Savage?"

I looked at her, already had my answer. "Of course." Katie smiled and chewed on her lip. "Lets go then." A new team was formed to join Dom.

The daylight seemed to be less every day, nights lasted the longest. Clouds in the sky, maybe a horrible storm was coming. We need shelter.

5 Jun myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

The turret jeep would be one of the most useful, but it wouldn't start. Dom wanted to stay & get it fixed, Scarlett wanted to cut the loses.

Elise came in with her power, "It's needed, you were safe in the warehouse. I was on the streets fighting, surviving. We stay & fix it."

This will become a huge problem down the line. It needed to be sorted out before the struggle took lives. Elise wanted to lead & she could.

Scarlett had this look in her eyes, she knew how to end this but it would have consequences. "You order us around like dogs," Elise yelled.

The argument got everyones attention. This was a struggle for power. "You dictate who does what and when, control the guns and ammo."

Scarlett didn't reply, she stepped back. A huge mistake, Elise took it as fear and moved closer. "Control when we eat. How much is left?"

A couple voices called out joining Elise's questions. "Enough," I yelled. "Get the truck running Dom. Elise enough." I stared at her angry.

She looked at me, her mouth agape. Guess she thought I was on her side, I want to survive and this can't happen not now.

Scarlett found her voice, "You didn't even know we were just down the road from you." "ENOUGH, this can't happen here. Dom hows it going?"

Dom shook his head. One of Elise's once army joins Dom, in mins the truck was running. He joined Dom's team. "Lets move," Scarlett ordered.

I almost laughed, not smart on her part or just to get under Elise's skin. Got in the bus and took the side door, ready for anything.

Scarlett put her hand on me, "We need to keep control." Looked at her, "you need to tell us what inventory you have, food, guns, and water."

She was hiding something, just by the look in her eyes. "I have weapons that will make you cream your pants, not safe for everybody to use."

Left it at that. Dom called on the radio "Zombies ahead. Holy fuck. There's way too many." "Rocket launchers?" I asked. "Just one,"she said.

6 Jun myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

Once we got over burnt plastic smell, which compared to rotting corpse smell was just peachy, we were on our miserable way, knee deep.

When I squeezed the trigger on that bad boy and them rockets sailed, I was transported to a happier time from my childhood. KABOOM!

Soft fleshy pieces flew everywhere. The streets were painted with the innards of the infected. Score one for the living, I thought.

Really it was pretty gross. We wore face masks. Somehow as we got closer the smell got worse. Now it was the dead and burnt plastic. Win?

After that, they seemed to just move on, what was left of em anyway. I saw them mostly facing walls and wandering inside raided buildings.

As it came closer to dark though, they were getting braver. We had to peg a few off as we pushed on. Frankly, I wasn't surprised by them.

Eventually we found the last missing military grade vehicle. Remote controlled guns on the roof. Think I saw em on that show Sons of guns.

Coulda used some of their hardware right now. It's funny how back in the day, what we thought important has no meaning now. None at all.

TV, movies, music videos all selling sex - sex - sex. When you're spending your time trying to survive sex is the last thing on your mind.

Pitch black, we slept in shifts, all pushing on. It was decided to make a run for my bus and maybe even the red truck unless...

Unless someone could come up with a better plan. After the riots and then the evac, most stores have been picked clean. We must live.

My eyes closed but I slept very little. So many faces. Damn dead still haunt ya, even if you kill em a second time. Wish they would just go.

The little sleep I did manage to steal left me with fragmented images of my past. Embarrassing moments, old arguments, the zombie faces.

Close range fire shook me awake. It was so dark I couldn't see. Rain was pelting the ground like marbles. Couldn't even see the stars.

I could hear the dead walkers gurgling and groaning in hunger just beyond the window of the bus. The rat tat tat of the guns grabbed me.

I could see Katie firing off into the dead. She turned and looked at me. "THEY'RE GETTING TOO CLOSE!" I shot up and grabbed an AK.

Found a gun hole and started taking them out. Heard screaming up ahead. The hair on my arms stood on end. Lightening punished the road.

The flash was too bright. I covered my eyes. I could hear Scarlett screaming out. Dead fingers were wrapped around the barrel of her gun.

She was firing into the Dead's chest. I ran up. Some guy in a red ball cap was trying to pull on her to help her out. I pulled my 9 mm.

With careful aim and a laser sight, I shot at the hand, black and green oozing off. Bastard wasn't letting go. "LET GO!" Scarlett pulled.

Before I realized what I was doing, I had my serrated Machete in my grasp. The hand was half way off. Damn Zombie was howling. Calling out.

By the long slender fingers, I could tell the dead thing was once a woman. It had a wedding ring on. My god this thing was a wife, a mom.

The hand came loose. I could see others running for the bus. They came to tip us and eat us. Scarlett yanked her gun in. I fired with my gun.

The shot echoed, That buzzing noise in my ears wasn't good. More of my hearing gone. Soon they're gonna be able to just come up on me.

Another flash off to the side of the road. The ground shook. That was an explosion. Good ol' Dom. Still don't trust him. Man burned my home.

7 Jun myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

Soon all the gun slots were being taken up by unknowns. Katie was there, Scarlett too. Ran to the front and saw the dead bastards moving in.

The ones on both sides were gettin cut down. The ones in the front though were layin down. If I didn't know any better, I would say they....

They had a plan. Die up front, gummy the wheels. Gummy the wheels, stop the bus and eat us. I could see the others have same problems.

I jumped up grabbing the bars. One foot on the tops on two seats. Opened the top and peeked my head up. "Gimmie a gun," I yelled.

Scarlett handed me up something. It was an m16 machine gun. Heavily modded. I barely recognized it. For a usually loud gun, it was whispered.

I blew through the first mag on the dead trying to lay down like ants. They would get up close, trying to gum up the wheels. Very bad.

The others with their gatlings and chain guns got the idea. Together we started taking them out before they got too close. It was hell.

We were getting pretty good at it too. conserving ammo. We were down to about two bullets per head. God knows I can do shots all day.

I had lots of practice since all this started. You think about the corny movies and the bad stories but inside it wasn't real.

I was calling shots out. "Got the one in the red suit." Some one else would call out. "Three over the hill." Shots fired, down they went.

This went on till morning. It was still pretty dark. I was soaked from the hard rain by the time I came back in. Would imagine others were.

Got that wet shirt off. Ya don't feel funny changing in front of strangers when you could die from Pneumonia. Luckily we had some spares.

Noticed Katie stealing a glance. A few others did too, made me nervous. I don't swing that way. What the hell is with that now? Just be you.

Some time passed and we finally came up on that bus. Still saw the dead lingering in the dawn. The orangey light bathing their corpses.

There was a call for an ammo count. We were still good. Thank god. If we didn't have any bullets, it would have been machete time.

You get that close, it's no good. You get scratched, bit, get blood in your mouth, YOU'RE DONE! No questions no cure, just done and gone.

These zombies have something we don't. They have the ability to infect you with a well placed drop of blood. You get some on you, disinfect.

Some people get some on them, disinfect and they're fine. seen others get just a little and go bananas. They turn over night and hunger.

We're comin up on my bus, all locked up, just like I left her. It even took me a while to get in. People watchin my back. It was peachy.

Try doing this on your own and you're bound to get jumped by the hungry dead. They weren't around though. Guess the army cleaned up.

In I went. Everything was still there. Ammo, food, water. After a meal, it was decided to get fuel. We were starting to dip into reserves.

8 Jun myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

The bus wasn't as loud as I thought it was. Some of the other's I didn't know were driving it. Maybe we can alter it later like they did.

So there we were at the gas station. No gas. I led em up to this farm I knew about. The guy had a station way back when. Worked there once.

God that farm was creepy. Bony old trees. No animals, except for all the dead birds on the ground. Didn't even wanna go to the house.

I hope the poor old bastard went in his sleep years ago and never had any of these problems. He lived alone as far as I knew.

I get out of the bus and uncover the hidden pumps. He had everything. Diesel, regular; and other - as he called it. Locked up tight.

I knew where the key was too. In that rickety old barn he called his workshop. Damn it, I did not wanna go in there. Here they were.

I had a bunch of people behind me. I couldn't let em know it freaked me out. The guy did taxidermy. I hated that shit. Didn't want it.

Imagine a pissed off zombie bear he never got around to. What if there was something worse. What if he was in there. They remember.

He could be in there, waiting in the dark to eat. Along I come dumb as shit and boom, I'm his next meal. No way was I gonna say anything.

Sliding door on the barn had a chain around it, door was badly rotted I could probably break it open. No way though, I wanted to be silent.

I check the main entrance, the door closed tight, no locks, no chain. This maybe our only chance of fuel in who knows how long.

Grabbed the handle and turned, it opened with a click. It echoed, something shifted inside the barn. I aimed my gun and slowly entered.

Way too dark, I got a light and shined it around in there. Faces of taxidermy animals stare back at me with their dead little eyes.

A big rifle sits on the counter, shells for a shotgun litter the floor. Something happened here. A bottle of whiskey on the workbench.

My heart was racing as I moved in deeper. Someone walked into my back. "Shit sorry," someone said. I sighed and tried the light switch.

A naked bulb sparks to life in the center of the room. a couple bodies lay on the floor, not zombies but dead. Their heads blown apart.

"What the fuck," Cole blurted. I ignored it and walked to the work bench. His tool box was open, where he puts the key. Hopefully it's there.

"Running hot," someone called outside. I run to the tool box, looked inside. the keys shining up at me from my light. Grabbed em.

Shots fired outside. "Suppressors only, we don't want them rushing us," Scarlett yells. Cole was staring off in the darkness of the barn.

"Something's over there," he points. A chest heaves as I shine my light in the direction, it was laying down. Hopefully not the old man.

Moved closer, Cole grabbed my arm. "Shoot it." Shook my head and continued. The smell, it had to be dead. "Hey the keys, first," Cole said.

The body stirred, it sat up big murky eyes glaring at us. His mouth opens and a gush of spewing yellow pours out. Raised my gun and shot.

Two in the head, fast shots, deadly ones. Cole screams and wiped his gun up and unleashed a fury of bullets into something coming at us.

Joined him, blew the head open of the big checkered shirt wearing guy. It collapsed. Something leapt off the 2nd level, a girl. She bounced.

Then crawled at us, her legs twisted in a sickly manner. I yelled and shot at her. She moved fucking fast, scared the hell out of us.

That's when I recognized the pair, the big guy lived down the road, the girl his daughter or young gf, never found out which. "Savage."

We went outside, 12 or so zombies lay dead. "What now?" Elise asked. Showed the keys and went to the pumps to get them ready to fuel us.

No old man, hoped he did pass long ago. This would be way too much for him to handle, let alone survive. Something bounced off my head.

An apple rolled away, looked up, an old tree house sitting there in the strong old trees. It was boarded up good. Another apple flew down.

The hatch opens and someone was crawling down the steps. a gust of air blew past me, I turned to where it was heading to see a zombie.

Dom walking towards me with a suppressed weapon, the shots barely making a sound as they tear the head of the zombie apart.

He stands over it and looks back at me. Still there was something, he was trying hard to be useful to me. A hand comes down on my shoulder.

9 Jun myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

It was warm and solid, not a zombie's hand. Slowly turned too see the face of a man, his facial hair messy, eyes bloodshot. Not the old man.

He lightened when he seen my face, like he remembered me. Still had no idea who he was. He cried. "Haven't seen people in days," he cried.

"You remember me?" He asked. shook my head, looked at the others returning to the pumps. "Savage have the get together later," Elise said.

She was angry I hadn't sided with her for the take over attempt way back when. "I don't," he nodded. "You worked for my dad." Old man's son.

Seen him maybe a dozen times when I worked here. "Can you shoot?" He grinned, told me his dad passed and he came to settle the land.

It started after he was here for a couple years, he was glad his dad collected guns. Glad to hear about that. "Why the tree house?" I asked.

He locked those people in the barn because he couldn't take the shot. "That's gotta change if you come with us," Elise said. Looked at her.

"Okay savage, time to get going," Scarlett said. "We need that gas." I know it had to be done. Unlocked the pumps and fueled us up.

We got cans and took the supply of gas. Everybody got into their vehicles and we began on our way. He talked about everything that happened.

I knew what to say to change everything for him. I've said it so many times in the past they all ended the same. They died and I was alone.

Remembered faces that night as we drove. The dark almost impossible to see in. One of the buses lights were out, didn't make it easier.

Hated sleeping, always brought nightmares, or weird dreams. I fought my fatigue and walked around the bus. Katie slept hard, unmoving.

A guy on the bus sat up, just stared forward. His face slightly pale. I nudged Scarlett and pointed him out. He didn't even blink or breath.

Something off about him, just as I was about to move closer he clumsily got to his feet, gurgling. Scarlett shined her light in his face

His eyes a weird murky color. He lunged forward at us. Drew my gun and shot him twice in the head. Third time when he was down. People woke.

It was close enough to morning, we stopped and got everyone to the bus. wore protective gear and dragged him outside. Stripped his clothes.

No bites, no scratches. He had no wounds of any kind, well except for my shots. How that hell did he turn. Something must have happened.

"Maybe he got blood in his mouth," Katie said. "Infected by something." "He never said anything. I heard you can feel it when you change."

10 Jun myzombiejournal Savage Klaxon

Ate silently in the early morning. Nobody was sure how he got infected, did we really want to know. "Oh god," Camron said from in the bus.

He came out with a half bottle of water in hand. "This was with his stuff. Check this out." His hands were trembling. He shook the bottle.

Within small white flakes floated and slowly settled almost becoming invisible. Tossed my water away, as did many others. We were fucked.

I stuck to drinking soda after that. It quenched my thirst and it wasn't water. Dom sat by me, he had pain in his eyes and worry.

"That could be tainted too," he said. This guy really knows how to ruin things. Spit my mouthful out and tossed the can. "What can we do?"

Elise got on the roof of her truck. "Lets go people we can't stay here." She leapt from the truck. People started for their vehicles.

The roar of other vehicles approaching sent some into panic, others got into war mode. There was a few cars, a minivan and a moving truck.

"ON THE GROUND EVERYONE," a guy ordered through a megaphone. That's right jackass call all the dead to us. People with guns came out.

'WE WANT YOUR SUPPLIES AND AMMO. GIVE IT PEACEFULLY OR WE'LL TAKE IT." Megaphone jackass said. Great I may have to kill living people again.

****

****

Our souls wait and then we're born into growing lives that are hard and torn. With hopes and dreams crushed at our feet, all life's pleasures become sickly sweet. Whispering demons try to steal our lives and all the angels have prying eyes. We struggle and fight everyday, endlessly searching for one true way. Never finding peace of mind, all of us starving for one clear sign. In life there is only one true bet, that everyone will come to know death.

From an Ode to Death by Ivan Desabrais

####

Dear reader,

Before you finish, we would like to thank you for reading this sample of My Zombie Journal. It means a lot to me. You are the reason we write. Of course we do it to make a living, but we write to entertain and take you places you may never go, to share our soul written on each page.

As authors we owe our success to you. If you enjoyed any of our work, please recommend our books and stories to your friends. You have the power to turn your favorite authors into best sellers.

Some ways how you can support your favorite authors:  
Send a message with your feedback! You can reach us at www.facebook.com/idesabrais & http://twitter.com/Ivantime & You can reach me at www.facebook.com/IanDesabrais & http://twitter.com/Iandesabrais  
Leave a glowing review or blurb wherever you can.  
Keep reading.

Thanks, We look forward to sharing our next book with you.

Best Regards,

Ivan Desabrais & Ian Desabrais

Be sure to check out our blog to keep up with our projects http://desabraisbros.wordpress.com /

####

Thank You from Desabraisbros

I would like to thank you for sharing this time with Savage Klaxon. We enjoyed the journey of writing this story.

Yours,

Ivan Desabrais & Ian Desabrais

####

####

To the reader:

Thank you for taking this journey with us into a world so real to our characters. It is a pleasure to share this Twitter based phenomenon. If you want to talk about this story, feel free to contact us through the methods provided below and at the beginning of this book.

Who knows what will happen in the years to come. Maybe together, we can delve deeper Savage Klaxon and his struggle. We're looking forward to unraveling more written secrets.

When we first started writing this tale, there was the one goal of having fun. We wanted to write a zombie story that hasn't been done. We developed Savage's voice to speak to you. The trick we found was to imagine how Savage would act, react, and talk.

Life will always be hard. It is a battle from birth to death. We will always remember this as a story with passion.

Writing this for us, was an amazing way to express our love for the genre. We wanted to write this mostly for the awesome tweeple who love this story and tune in for every post. We changed nothing in this story, from twitter to ebook.

This collection will continue until we feel that it is over.

If I could leave you with something to take away from this, it would be to tell that story you want to tell and do it now. Don't let anything stop you from what you truly love.

Thank you for reading this story.

Ivan Desabrais & Ian Desabrais

****

Contact Information

Visit our blog. Explore the Culture of writing and the art of story telling. See what's coming soon by Desabraisbros Ivan & Ian Desabrais and purchase more of our books! Don't miss out.

http://desabraisbros.wordpress.com/

****

END
