 
## Nymphania Book 1

## A Brave New World

Published by Smashwords

Copyright 2014 All rights reserved.

**Smashwords Edition, License Notes**

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

# Chapter One

Leanne always daydreamed like a schoolgirl in a maths class. This Monday morning was no exception. The sun sliced through Leanne's blinds and warmed the bleak expression on her face.

The familiar chime sound disrupted her dream. She opened her eyes begrudgingly. On the screen of her laptop was yet another message, but this time it was from a new sender. Harry Wendel, 28 years old and looking for romance.

Hi Leanne,

Just spotted you on here and wanted to introduce myself.

Can we chat sometime? I'm free in the evenings from 7 - 10pm if you fancy it.

Thanks and take care.

Harry.

Leanne groaned when she saw his picture. He was balding and clearly overweight, not her type, just like every other guy who had been in touch so far. She had standards, not that her standards were high. Overweight men just didn't do anything for her.

Maybe she had been too spoilt in her last relationship, she thought as she closed the message and scanned her inbox. There were several other new messages waiting to be read. She contemplated reading them but then quickly decided against it, she had wasted enough time already. Did she even want another relationship or was she simply on the rebound? Shaking her head, she leaned back in her chair, the hinges squeaking, causing her to wince in annoyance.

Leanne sighed again, of all the days why was she feeling like this today? Today would be the end result of three years of hard work. Cradling the warm mug of herbal tea in her hands, she breathed in the potent, fresh scent and smiled for a moment, enjoying the memories it stirred.

China was her mother's country but Leanne still held it close to her heart. The scent of the Chinese herbs contained within the tea she drank three times daily always brought back those jasmine scented memories. It was a much-needed comfort to her as she took little sips and closed her eyes.

She remembered visiting Beijing as a little girl and being shocked at how crammed full of people the streets and roads were. She had cried at first, not used to such confined spaces, amidst the heaving masses seemingly content with never having more than a foot of breathing space to call their own.

Even at the fragile age of just 7 years old she was beginning to show the character traits her mother possessed in abundance and the tears hadn't lasted. Those four weeks immersed in the heaving metropolis of Beijing had squeezed out the childish weakness and replaced it with an inner strength borne both out of necessity and her mother's genes. Her mother had not just 'moved' to America, she had fled, fully pregnant with Leanne. She sipped the tea, savoring its bitter yet flavorsome quality.

She was glad that her mother had been forced to give birth to her in America and in awe of her mother's 'never-say-die' attitude when it came to giving Leanne a chance at life. China's one-child policy had dictated her future.

The phone began to ring. The electronic purr bringing her out of her thought playground momentarily. She glanced at the caller I.D and saw it was Mike and decided to ignore it. She would have to speak to him soon enough at work. Today was a big day at DreamReal Corp and she was one of the star players on the team, responsible for developing the characters, their behavior, emotions and human-like qualities.

DreamReal Corp's latest gaming platform was about to be unleashed upon the world, that's if it made it through this final set of testing. Virtual reality meets Second Life that was what Professor Blake had called it.

Yes, in part, it was just that, but this was far more ambitious and Leanne had put thousands of hours of blood, sweat and tears into the project. Not only would people play as a character in the world, they would 'be' the character in a realistic dreamlike environment. Fully plugged into the system and integrated in such a way as to be no longer aware of the 'real' world.

Leanne placed her mug on the DreamReal coaster that sat by her keyboard, exactly 10 inches to the left of it, everything was precision-like with Leanne \- everything. It had to be, if her mother had taught her one thing, it was that the Chinese were extremely hard working, clinical, thorough and relentless in their pursuit of progress.

She was to be part of the next generation - the generation of American-Asians that were showing their true grit especially where technology was concerned. Leanne was no exception and constantly strived to perfect herself in every way, even her body was a well honed and oiled piece of machinery that was every bit a temple to her.

Looking at her watch, she saw that it was almost 8am, time to log off and get to work.

Leanne ignored the bleeping of another message and proceeded to sign out, before logging off her computer. To hell with the dating sites anyway! Who was she kidding? Did she really think a stranger with whom she had nothing in common would really add to her life in any way? No, she knew it was pointless, but still.

She gulped down the last of the tea, pushed herself off the huge leather recliner and headed for the kitchen. She sighed as she walked; the vestiges of her breakup with Mike still very much lingering at the forefront of her consciousness.

Dammit, get outta my head!

She washed the mug, dried it and placed it upon its own hook hanging over the breakfast bar with all the others. Nothing was out of place in her home. 'A cluttered home is a cluttered mind,' that was her motto. One of many...

Walking to the mirror in the hallway for one last check, she looked at herself just a little longer than usual. Her long ebony black hair was pulled back into a no-nonsense ponytail that actually accentuated her long elegantly curved neck. She adjusted her crisp white blouse and black knee-length skirt as she always did, but this morning her gaze lingered on her face.

For someone on the threshold of thirty, Leanne had a pretty decent complexion with very few lines, however this morning, her forehead was worryingly creased and Leanne shook her head at the irony. Here she was worrying about worry lines, but it wasn't the lines themselves that bothered her, it was the reason behind them - the cause.

Shrugging, she turned away from the mirror, gathered up her keys and kissed the picture of her mother she had placed on a little ornate table beside the front door not long after her death two years earlier. Whenever she left home and returned, she kissed the picture and remembered her, as she had been. The mother of Leanne's youth, robust and steadfast, unremitting in the face of adversity. So much so that nothing kept her from having and raising Leanne to be the next torchbearer for the Li family.

The front door clicked firmly shut as she hopped down the three steps that lead up to her model 3 bed semi-detached house. All the houses here were neat tidy and identical. Her car alarm flashed a greeting as she pushed the button and swung elegantly on to the front seat, sighing softly as she contemplated the morning ahead. No doubt she would be forced to see 'him' and no doubt he would be his usual charming self, but she wouldn't let him spoil it. Today was too important.

The streets were coming alive as other commuters from the neighborhood left their houses en-masse and climbed into their automobiles, heading for their various offices. She watched the ritual impatiently, waiting for a gap in the traffic then gunned the gas and pulled out quickly as a neighbour let her out, the latest album by The Foals blasting at full volume from her stereo.

As she sped down the highway, she thought ahead to the testing phase of the project and gave silent thanks that she would be able to lose herself in that. It was guaranteed that life was going to get a little more interesting for a while.

Leanne tapped her fingers on the steering wheel as she approached the huge wire perimeter fence that surrounded the extensive DreamReal Corp building, its' hulking silver presence glinting in the fierce Texan sun.

# Chapter Two

Getting into work was never easy, to look a the place from the outside you'd think she was entering some military base, but then there was big money involved in the computer industry and the bosses liked to keep their secrets safe. Leanne flipped out her identification as she pulled up to the security gates and fixed a beam on her face as she lowered her window. It was the same practiced smile she delivered each morning.

"Morning, Miss Li, how ya doin' on this fine day?" The security guard was in his late fifties with swept back gray hair and creases on his face that said he laughed too much.

"Not bad, thanks Matt. Yourself?" Leanne replied, handing over her I.D card at him for the ritual scan. The procedure had to be endured every morning.

"Ah ya know, pretty good. Got a vacation coming up next week," he smirked barely hiding the smugness on his face. He had already activated the gate, which began to slowly rise upwards.

"Lucky you!" Leanne pouted, "Go easy on the liquor won't you?" She drove off not giving him a chance to respond but heard his laugh disappear behind her as she drove through the gate.

Pulling into her parking space in the dimly lit underground parking lot of DreamReal Corp, Leanne switched off the engine and sat, unmoving for a moment.

She thought about taking a break. If all went well with the day's final tests, it would be the opportune moment to request some leave. Leanne checked herself in the mirror, and was a little perturbed by the dark shadows under her eyes, exaggerated by the murky darkness within her car. It wasn't just the lack of light though, she really was living on a knife-edge these days, and her break up with Mike had been the catalyst - she was sure of it.

She checked her watch, 08:23 - she was almost late. That was unlike her and she didn't like it. Leanne Li was never late!

Maybe just this once ... she thought as she gathered up her briefcase, locked her car and made her way to the elevator.

It was time to go to work. No more self-pity she told herself before pushing the button that would take her up into the heart of DreamReal Corp. The lift didn't respond and then she cursed to herself, rummaging through her bag for a secondary security pass. The company took security very seriously. Corporate spies had been known to try and infiltrate their premises and the board had acted, bringing in extra measures in the previous few months.

She swiped the card and the evaluator doors sprang open with an affirmative electronic beep. A small voice welcomed her as she stepped through the doors:

"Good morning, Miss Li and welcome to DreamReal Corp, the future supplier of humanity's dreams. We hope you have a wonderful day!"

Leanne mumbled a return greeting, "Good morning, Sally." The floor numbers spun by at speed on the digital monitor before slowing down and stopping on the 33rd.

The doors opened silently and Leanne stepped out into the familiar reception area. Curvy green and red sofas along the left hand side, surrounded by large cardboard cut-outs of various strange creations, gave the whole room a fantasy feel. She smiled at Julie the receptionist, a bit too cute and a bit too blonde, and strolled along the center aisle. This was where the main body of the workers were, the code monkeys. Nodding and politely returning greetings from several workers busy tapping at keys she headed towards her office. Either side there was an expansively arranged sea of partitioned workstations, surrounded on each side by separate offices that had blinds drawn as if those on the outside weren't privy to what went on in there. As the leader of the team responsible for developing character artificial intelligence and behavior, Leanne was grateful for her open quiet space this morning.

The office was pretty much already in full work-mode. DreamReal Corp was a highly reputable leader in the gaming and computer industry who only employed the very best.

Leanne stopped at the coffee machine and waited behind two men as they punched in their orders and waited, chatting as they did so, their voices animated. Leanne stood right behind them, listened intently.

"... This is it, what we've been working towards for three long years, I can barely believe it."

"Tell me about it, I can't wait. I got a good feeling about this one."

"Yeah, after the last debacle, surely they've ironed out the creases now."

"Damn well better have. My buddies have been bugging me about when it's gonna be released for about two years now!"

They laughed and moved on, and Leanne watched them, nodding. She too had been impatiently waiting to get the game to the next level. She pushed the button for a double espresso hoping the extra caffeine would bear her in good stead for the testing phase. She could hardly wait - she would finally get to venture into the game world that she had helped create, at least as far as the behavior traits of the characters and computer A.I went.

As much as possible, Leanne had programmed character traits that she found desirable in people. Traits that would make the world a better place, should they have been more in abundance. Traits like: ambition, creativity, courage, honor, discipline and then the softer more human traits like kindness, selflessness, moral fiber, and so on. Of course the game had to be balanced and some of the darker traits of human characteristics also had to be included, otherwise where was the conflict and the drama going to come from?

If all had gone well, the endless hours spent tweaking the A.I throughout the night most nights for the last three years had paid off. She would find out soon enough.

She took her coffee from the machine, cradling it against her chest and headed to her office at the end of the bustling room that sounded with the incessant tapping of keyboards. Huge monitors dominated the walls, displaying different areas of the game's landscapes. There were several 3D scanners and printers all in use. Models of characters were still being scanned into the network even at this late stage, the computers analyzing the real-world objects and collecting data on its shape and appearance and storing it onto the vast servers that silently hummed a floor below. An endless cacophony of noise, almost like an orchestra as the world no doubt prepared itself for the emergence of one of the most anticipated user immersive games ever created.

Leanne reached the door to her office and pushed it open with her free hand, gently so as not to spill the coffee. The sight that greeted her caused her to almost drop her coffee on the floor and she inhaled sharply.

Mike Lewin sat nonchalantly in Leanne's chair, slouched in it like an arrogant teenager, a sly grin spread across his face. As always Mike's appearance was immaculate, his Giorgio Armani shirt tight across his muscular frame, his square jaw giving him a George Clooney look, reeking of arrogant confidence. If anyone in DreamReal looked his or her part it was him. As the game coder and resident I.T brains behind the game development, he held quite an established, respected position. Leanne left the door open as she entered, hoping to avoid a discussion with him. Mike was the last person she wanted to see.

He leaned forward in the chair and placed his elbows on the desk top, his chin resting on his slender fingers as he watched her, eyes twinkling mischievously.

Leanne dropped her bag onto the leather sofa across from her huge mahogany desk, her pride and joy and a place in which she had spent many an hour, working hard. A place now being invaded by the man she had tried so hard to wipe from her memory for the last month, but he wouldn't budge and she knew it.

"Good morning Leanne, you ready for the big day?" Mike asked her, a smile playing across his thick lips, she knew that look all too well. He was here to get under her skin.

"I called this morning but you didn't pick up," he said, as if suggesting she was a naughty girl.

Leanne sighed, and looked up to the heavens. "Mike, what are you doing in my office?"

"Oh come on, Lea," he said raising his hands in a gesture that suggested innocence but she knew better. "I know how important today is to you and just wanted to wish you good luck. That's all." The glint in his green eyes, told her otherwise. Mike always had been like a bad stain, he just wouldn't budge even when he knew he was wrong; the stubbornness of the man was intolerable.

Breaking up with him hadn't been easy but Leanne had endured his controlling ways for far too long. Once they had enjoyed something special, but gradually, after Mike had been promoted to leader of the biggest team on the project, his ego had taken precedence, even over her. She had become a trophy.

No, not me, not ever, she thought, her stare determined and steady, holding Mike's mocking eyes with her own steely glare. He had toyed with her enough.

"Thanks, now get the hell outta my office, your stench is killing me..." She would play him at his own game. It was the only way to remove him - attack his ego.

Mike laughed out loud and drummed the desktop with his long, dextrous fingers, his black hair curled around his forehead and ears like little fingers, giving him a boyish look.

"Lea, be careful now. Pretty soon, you keep acting like this and your hair will fall out. I mean you're already looking the worse for wear and it's only been a month. Come back to me..." He said, the cockiness in his voice dissipating somewhat with the last few words, replaced by mock pleading.

"Leanne?" They both looked towards the door. It was Laura standing in the doorway, her long red hair draped across her shoulders, leaning against the doorframe. Leanne breathed a small sigh of relief, although she hid it from Mike. She wouldn't give him that satisfaction.

"I have that character report that you emailed me about, do you still want to go over it?" Laura said, glancing at Mike briefly before turning back to Leanne, her face serious, but Leanne saw the brief widening of her eyes.

Mike sniggered, watching the two of them as they came together like two conspirators, "Women..." he said in disgust, slowly shaking his head as they began to initiate the ploy to get away from him.

Leanne took the opportunity with both hands and played along.

"Yes, yes, shall we discuss it in your office?"

Laura nodded and Leanne sauntered towards the door, glaring at Mike as she did so.

"You better be gone when I come back Mike. I mean it ... it's over between us and the sooner you get that through your thick skull the better."

They left the office together, leaving Mike sitting at her desk staring after them, the curve on his lips slowly morphing into a self assured smile.

***

Mike wasn't finished with her yet. This was just the beginning. Did she really think she could just dump him like that ... leave him hanging with barely any explanation?

What was it she had said, Mike thought as he once again leaned back in Leanne's chair, in no hurry to leave. Yes, that's it - he was too controlling and she didn't think they were right for each other anymore. He laughed to himself at how Leanne had suddenly been saved by Laura, as if she needed saving from him.

There was a hint of bitterness in his laugh and thoughts. Mike frowned wondering whether it was a deep-seated anger borne of his abandonment. Maybe, just maybe, his so-called 'controlling behavior' was due to the fact that she was married to her job, and he had - right from the beginning - played a bit part role in her life. And what was up with Laura? It seemed every time he caught up with Leanne, meaning to talk things over, there she was, watching and waiting for an opportunity to whisk her away from him.

He scowled at the empty doorway, remembering how Laura had just 'appeared' - yeah right. He wished she would just keep her nose out of their business. One of these days he was going to tell her exactly how he felt, but not yet, he needed to line up his ducks, so to speak. He looked down at his watch and seeing that it was almost time, pushed Leanne's chair back under her prized mahogany desk, subconsciously knowing how she liked things kept in their place before leaving the office.

# Chapter Three

"Thanks for saving me back there, Laura. I owe you one," Leanne said, before taking a sip of the much needed coffee - her second of the morning. Her throat welcoming the bitter caffeine, her eyes closed, head back, resting on a cupboard door.

Laura shrugged, stirring her coffee slowly as she looked down at it, "Ah, that's fine Lea. I understand how things are between the two of you and the last thing you need is him prowling around your office."

Leanne hopped up onto one of the small stools at the kitchenette counter and nodded, slowly.

"Yep, I mean, I understand he's upset, but he's going about it all wrong. What we really need is some space you know, and later ... who knows."

Laura looked surprised and raised her eyebrows in response, "You mean there's a possibility of the two of you getting back together?"

"Well, I wouldn't say that. If Mike got his head out of his own ass, maybe it would be an option," Leanne said, relieved to be able to finally relax a little. That was why Laura was an invaluable friend who listened and actually showed interest. Leanne didn't have many friends like that, friends who cared and Laura was a confidante whom she trusted with all but her darkest secrets - those would never be disclosed to anyone.

Laura smiled thinly and sipped her coffee, nodding slowly. She seemed a little preoccupied and for a few moments, there was a silence between them in the small confines of the little kitchenette, only the drone of the water purifier to keep them company.

Laura finally looked up from the depths of her coffee mug and her face brightened, "You ready for the big day today?"

At the mention of the coming test - the final preparations for their current gaming platform - Leanne smiled and put her coffee down on the counter, "To be honest, I can't wait, I've been watching this thing develop for the past three years with barely any chance to actually get my hands dirty, ya know?" Leanne jumped off her stool, the excitement of the test looming on the horizon, filling her with newfound optimism.

"What about you? You looking forward to it?"

"Am I?" Laura nodded, her red hair bouncing on her shoulders, "It's nice working directly for Mr. Blake and all, as his private assistant but I envy you guys who are out there on the front lines, doing all the design work and what not," she said placing her mug in the sink with a thud, before turning back to Leanne, "I sure wish I could join you."

"Yes, it would've been great to have you there, but it's the top level team only I'm afraid," Leanne said, almost feeling guilty. She knew Laura would have loved to have made the drop but rules were rules.

Laura's eyes dropped to the floor for a second, "Sure. You make sure you have fun in there." She said looking up again, and Leanne saw she was chewing her bottom lip.

Leanne grinned, "Yeah I did design some pretty hunky A.I hero types that I'm looking forward to meeting," She was just happy it was almost over, three years of her life had been taken up with the project and to see it finally about to bear fruit was filling her with huge anticipation.

Laura stopped chewing her lip and signalled to Leanne subtly, her eyes focused behind Leanne before closing, a gentle sigh seeping between her red lipstick laden lips.

Leanne turned upon hearing the cupboard door behind her open, its hinges squeaking gently but enough to alert her to the presence of someone in the kitchen. The cupboard door had opened quickly as though the person opening it had tried to mask the sound of hinges badly in need of oil, but only succeeded in revealing their intent.

It was Simon Thomas, the graphic designer of the Dream project, responsible for the landscaping within the game. Leanne was very impressed with his work, and the wonderful job he had done on the different sections of the huge world were part of the reason she so dearly wanted to get lost within it.

Seeing he had been noticed, he turned, placing the cup in his hand gently on the counter. "Hi ... Leanne." He said, his voice quiet, almost too low to hear.

"Hey Simon, how's it going?" Leanne asked, knowing he would be his usual awkward self around her. Behind her, leaning against the sink, Laura said nothing but simply stared on, her face clearly displaying her lack of interest. Laura was quick to dismiss people she thought were beneath her, a trait that Leanna despised in her. She could be as cold as ice when she decided she didn't like someone and unfortunately for Simon, he was one of them.

Leanne had a soft spot for Simon though and had tried to engage him in conversation several times throughout their meetings and during the times they had worked together. Even though he was not the greatest at conversing there was something in his eyes. He was clearly a man that put others before himself, always taking the time to help out where he can. He was the smartest man she knew, if only he would just learn to relax.

Simon didn't look up as he prepared a coffee, flicking the switch to the coffee machine, which whirred into life as the coffee was squeezed out into the glass jug below. "Fine, thanks, looking forward to the test ... you?" he said, with the unmistakable air of someone pushing themselves to interact, his voice just a little too loud.

Looking over her shoulder at Laura, she gave a sympathetic shrug but Laura waved her hand dismissively and shook her head as if to say 'he's not worth it'. Leanne scowled and turned back to Simon who was staring at the machine, his eyes fixed on it as if willing it to hurry up. He very rarely ever looked anyone in the eye, content to stare at the floor or a distant point in space rather than make eye contact but Leanne thought she knew him, at least she knew how much the project meant to him. To her, as she watched him, his demeanour had changed slightly from its usual lack of composure, now there was an almost undetectable air of excitement about him.

Is he just as excited as I am to get into the dream world? She wondered.

She watched him as he carefully added the milk and cream and stirred the coffee albeit with a trembling hand.

"Simon, I can't wait to delve into the game, it's going to be one hell of an experience, and especially after all the work we've put into it." She chose her words carefully, wanting to get him more involved.

Simon turned to her, and smiled then, nodding, his eyes actually meeting hers for a moment, "I was thinking exactly the same thing, Leanne."

Behind them, Laura coughed, but Leanne ignored her and Simon didn't once spare her a glance, his eyes were fixed on Leanne's.

He wasn't exactly unattractive, but he could do with a few style pointers, thought Leanne. For one thing, his glasses were somehow not right, a little too big and a few years out of style. He must have been in his early thirties, his long unkempt hair wild and unruly, draped around his shoulders. The huge glasses certainly didn't do him any favors. Then there was his dress sense - cardigans and jumpers, most of them covered in colorful patterns and whirls, like something his mother had knitted for him. Nerds were super smart though. If only they knew how to dress and interact. Simon might actually be quite appealing.

Seeing Leanne was appraising him, her eyes roaming first to his face and then his body, he quickly looked away; almost spilling his coffee such was the suddenness of the movement.

"Well, I'll ... see you in the control room," he said, softly before disappearing through a door.

"God, what's wrong with that guy?" Laura said, but Leanne ignored her, lost in her thoughts as she watched Simon walk away.

Nice guys come last huh...

# Chapter Four

"Leanne, it's time. Come to my office in 5 for the briefing."

"Yes, I..." The line was cut off abruptly as Professor Blake hung up.

Leanne sighed and replaced the phone, he was always that way. Saying goodbye 'New York' style. Still, she liked him for the way he was all work and no play. Strictly business. He clearly had a vision and was intent on reaching out for it, no matter what. Much like herself, only her vision was somewhat obscured lately. Life had seemed so simple as a child. Now the complexity of adulthood blurred the lines. Maybe it was the toll of having been in the same routine for too long that was getting her down. Change was needed and she knew it, maybe the break up with Mike was giving her the resolve she needed.

She closed her office door and made her way towards Professor Blake's office at the end of the room. The noise echoing around the maze of office workstations had grown since the morning; no doubt everyone was poised for the results of the test.

"Hey Leanne, you ready?" Frank, one of her team was sat, watching her as she walked by, his face betraying the excited anticipation that was coursing through his veins.

She gave him a thumbs up and nodded, smiling. It was hard not to get drunk on the positive buzz that was radiating from the very walls of the entire office, but then she saw Mike.

He was leading the way, followed by Simon and Laura who trailed behind him like faithful servants.

Always needing to lead the charge, Mike was always the first to arrive on the scene whenever a meeting was called.

She stepped through the door, behind Simon, who nodded a greeting as she entered. Professor Blake's office was huge and just as one might expect with such a well-educated man, bookcases filled with all manner of hefty tomes and volumes flanked the walls.

"Come in, come in and shut the door behind you if you would, thank you." Professor Blake said, his voice punctuated by a strong English accent that came straight from the BBC World News channel.

They all took their places, in various seats positioned around the room, Leanne furthest away from Mike, Simon to her left and then Laura slipped in between.

Professor Blake had once been an eminent Professor of Computer Science in London and by all accounts was the best there was back home in England. That had been several years earlier according to the information Leanne had managed to get her hands on. Professor Blake was not one to talk about himself and his achievements but still, they preceded him wherever he went anyway.

The story, as far as Leanne had managed to glean from various websites, some entirely devoted to the Professor, filled with fans that worshiped the ground he walked on, was that he had quit teaching several years earlier. There was one particular story that surfaced again and again during her research, and that was the one concerning his 'discovery'.

The Professor had loved the concept of Second Life, where players played through an avatar and interacted with other characters in a dynamic and changing world. Being the talented man that he was, he was able to come up with a completely new platform on which to create a world, as close to the real thing as possible, where even the five senses could be utilized.

The Japanese had led the way, with their voracious appetite for robotics and A.I development but they had reached a plateau. Professor Blake had simply taken the reins and continued the climb. Under his tutelage and guidance, Leanne had created a world of life-like beings that responded to humans and reasoned with human-like logic and most of all ... emotion.

That had been the ultimate discovery as far as Leanne was concerned and it had enabled her to create characters that would fall in love, desire, and dream for greater things just as any human would.

It helped immensely that the Professor was a devout fan of fantasy and science fiction. One of his expansive bookshelves was completely overrun with it, all manner of books depicting strange beasts, creatures and alien worlds. The project was his baby and he decided what went into it. Leanne infused life into the characters, Simon created the world for them to exist in and Mike had developed the foundations upon which everything else depended.

DreamReal was about to become 'reality' and Leanne was tingling with anticipation.

Professor Blake, sat in his high backed leather chair, his hands clasped together in front of him, each finger gently tapping the knuckles of each hand, as though he were restless. His thick gray hair swept back behind his ears like a mane and green-piercing eyes darted around the room behind thick-rimmed spectacles.

"This is it everyone, the moment we've been working towards since ... oh I don't know, I lost track of time ages ago, not as young as I once was." he grinned ruefully.

Heads nodded around the room, it had indeed been a long time. Too long.

"Now, no doubt, you are all aware of what needs to be tested today. Nonetheless, I have prepared a list for each of you." He took a batch of SD memory cards that held all their task list information and other items that they needed inside the game. He held them out to Laura, who handed them out around the room and waited politely before continuing, "You don't need me to tell you how much this means to me, and by now, I'm sure what was once 'my' baby is now also 'your' baby."

It was true, Leanne thought, it was now 'their' baby, their pride and joy and today it would be born, after years of nurturing, teaching and feeding. If all proceeded as well as all the signs suggested, that baby was about to come of age.

"Leanne, as you are responsible for the A.I and character makeup, your job will be to interact with and test the interaction, decision making, reasoning, learning and problem solving skills of the characters within the game." He looked into her eyes, his face softening, "I'm positive that you've performed above and beyond your duties ... today is your reward."

Leanne, smiled, nodding. "Yes..." She swore she could see a thin almost undetectable film of moisture forming over his eyes, like tears threatening to take hold, but he blinked and looked away, his eyes shifting to Mike.

"Mike," His tone became more serious, Professor Blake treated Leanne like a daughter and knew of her history with Mike. To put it bluntly - he wasn't fond of him.

"You know your job. Do it well and there won't be a repeat of what happened last time." Mike nodded, silent but his lips pursed together, and Leanne wondered if he were attempting to smile. If he was, he had failed miserably, because it appeared as a grimace.

The Professor checked his watch, before rubbing his hands together, and clapping.

"Let's go people! Simon, I trust you enough to get the job done, after all, we've you to thank for the splendid world we're about to enter. Let's go test it and see what this baby of ours has to offer, eh?" Professor Blake rounded his small non-nondescript desk and placed his arm around Simon's shoulders, leading the way and Leanne spotted the scowl on Mike's face.

He was jealous of the attention and praise Professor Blake lavished on Leanne and Simon and it was obvious to all. He only had himself to blame for that. His arrogance was hard to take. In fact the only person who seemed to tolerate it was Laura. As she followed Professor Blake and Simon through the door she turned, seeing Laura reach out to Mike as if to comfort him. Leanne smiled to herself, enjoying seeing Mike without the arrogance that usually dominated his face. She screwed up the empty paper cup in her hand and tossed it lazily into a waste bin as she passed by. There were more important things to focus on, like DreamReal.

Hurrying, she came up behind Professor Blake and Simon, calling out as she did so, "Hey, wait up you two."

At that, Professor Blake turned and smiled; stepping aside to let her join them as they walked to the large doors labelled 'Control Room.'

# Chapter Five

In the center of the control room there were four large empty armchairs with rests for the head and feet. The room was banked with several large monitors with stunning landscape scenery of the world they were about to enter.

The leather creaked as Leanne Sat back in her chair, nervously reaching for her own headset, the excitement tingling in her fingers. She carefully slide the SD card into the headset admiring how slim the new versions were.

They each put on the thin chrome headsets that linked sensors to the Occipital and Temporal Cortical areas of the brain, responsible for dreams including perception, visual, auditory and tactile senses.

"Are you ready for this, Simon?" Leanne gave him a smile.

"I don't think I've been more ready for anything in my life!" he returned a boyish grin.

She nodded, "I know, it's ...exhilarating isn't it?" The air was filled hushed excitement and the electronic beeping of the monitor as it tracked their heart rates, and just beside her, the bleeping of Simon's monitor was a little more insistent than the rest. No doubt, this was a defining moment for him. She wondered how he would interact within the game world - how would he look? They had all chosen their own avatars the day before. Leanne had chosen to remain as close to herself as possible.

The M-Team, responsible for monitoring the players, were busy preparing the game world for their entrance and the countdown was about to begin. The anticipation filling the air was palpable and Leanne let herself relax as she was checked over by Mary, one of the engineers.

"You feeling okay in there, Leanne?" She asked as she quickly checked the setting on the headset.

"I couldn't be better."

"I bet. I envy you guys, what with you all being the first in and everything. Don't get too get too caught up in there, okay?" Mary said, an impish grin on her face, "I've got me a character all set up and ready to take DreamReal by storm once you guys give the go ahead," she added, patting Leanne's arm before nodding to the others, an affirmative that they were good to go.

"Okay, start the countdown, if you will my good people." Professor Blake called out suddenly, his voice filled with the excitement they all no doubt felt at that moment.

The lights in the control room dimmed and a low intense humming began as the electronic equipment was initialized all around them.

"Remember, your job is to test the world. By all means enjoy it, but don't forget why you are really there..." Professor Blake paused for a moment, appraising them all.

"I wish I could join you on this momentous occasion, but I must remain ... for now."

He glanced over at Leanne, his expression unreadable in the shadow that obscured his face.

The countdown began.

10 ... 9 ... 8 ... 7 ... 6...

"I'll see you guys on the other side." Mike said, fixing Leanne with steady gaze. She herself felt a little afraid, her consciousness was about to plunged into another world completely.

... 5 ... 4 ... 3 ... 2 ... 1 Leanne looked over at the professor and saw he was watching her. He nodded once and then Leanne's vision suddenly blurred and blacked out altogether. The darkness was accompanied by an endless silence that reminded her of her meditation sessions, the moment when she entered the Theta brainwave state.

The silence was total, but the blackness was also impenetrable, not even a sliver of light visible in it's utter nothingness. She waited, her breathing steady, but feeling her heart rate creeping up slightly, a gentle thudding in her chest. She wondered how the others would deal with such emptiness.

A light, distant but drawing closer. Sounds tuning in and out like the volume on a T.V. being toyed with. It was happening. The emergence they had told her about, the moment when DreamReal would finally tune into her brain waves and plunge her into the game. She braced herself, feeling her hands clench tightly in anticipation.

Then it happened all at once. It began as a loud roar, crashing in her eardrums like distant waves that steadily grew louder and louder until finally it seemed the sound broke. Leanne felt her whole body fall suddenly, spiralling downwards. Disoriented and unable to focus on anything yet, Leanna was just able to make out a steadily glowing orange light above her. She recalled the effect of staring at a light bulb for too long, and how it would leave a visual echo of the bulb on her retina; this was the same, only in reverse.

She hit something. An explosion of all of her senses pulsed through her body like an electric shock. Resistance gave way underneath her sucking her in like welcoming arms and for a moment she almost panicked. It was then that Leanne realized she had landed in a body of water and was now sinking fast. Her sight abruptly snapped back into full focus, revealing a shimmering expanse of liquid all around her. She tried to orientate herself as the panic kicked in, struggling to pull herself towards what she hoped was upwards, and her lungs felt like they were on fire. Stretching towards the surface, aching to get free from her watery prison her hand smacked into a large boulder, icey liquid flooding into her mouth, as a chilling spike of fear kicked in.

Don't Panic! She told herself, widening her eyes to see if she could make sense of her surroundings. A flurry of bubbles passed her face drifting upwards. Leanne wiggled her body like a fish and followed them towards the light of the surface. Suddenly the welcome relief of fresh air rushed into her aching lungs and she slumped against the bank, breathing heavily.

She had arrived and was now in the game world, fully attuned. Somehow though, she had ended up in a body of water. How could such a thing happen? Hadn't they already planned the precise location each of them would appear?

Leanne's breathing slowed down as she started to relax at last. As the panic subsided, it dawned upon her just how real her surroundings seemed. Gently kicking her legs she marvelled at how real the water felt upon her skin. It was cool and offered a slight resistance with each push of her hands and legs - just as real water would. She looked up for the first time and was genuinely amazed by it all. Above the sounds of the water she could hear the gentle rustle of a tree in the wind, the bold stark reality of the world was shocking.

It also became immediately clear to her that this was not going to be like your average gamer world, where the environment couldn't harm or interact with you.

Above her, white clouds drifted lazily across a deep blue sky and Leanne gasped with delight as she spotted a huge planet floating above her. It hung high in the atmosphere, a blur of different colours being swirled around by some unseen force. Simon had spared no effort in his world building. She wondered where he was at that moment and how he would feel about his handy work. Proud, she guessed.

For a minute or two, Leanne stayed where she was, observing her new world, trying to place her location whilst appreciating the realness of the environment around her.

Behind her, a huge cliff stretched up into the distance with trees spread across its hard rocky surface. Huge mossy patches were spread over the rocks like thick carpets and at its center was the vertical sweep of a majestic waterfall. The water, emanating from the hills overhead, cascaded over the rock face and into the pool she was floating in, a thick white foam bubbling up underneath it as it struck the water with a gentle roar. The pool became a river and threaded off to the east into the forest.

Leanne was awestruck. There was nothing missing, as far as she could see. DreamReal was an almost perfect copy of reality, save for a few minor details such as the texture of certain objects like the rocks and the trees. She began to swim to the bank, eager to be on land and to 'feel' the solidness of the world. Would the solid ground and the objects be as convincing as the water?

She reached the shallows of the pool and found herself walking on rounded pebbles and smooth stones that were easily traversable, and much to Leanne's pleasure - multi-colored, creating a rainbow like effect under the water. With each step the ripples spreading out from her caused the colors to undulate and merge together with the movement of the water.

Just like the real thing ... even better...

She stepped up onto the grassy bank and reached down to shake off the water from her tight leather body suit and breeches but she stopped when she realized they were bone dry. She ran her hands over the smooth black leather encasing her body, surprised. Why wasn't she wet? Was it another glitch in the system, like the randomness of her location? She supposed it must have been and made a mental note to inform the team as soon as she got back.

The thought of going back actually saddened her, but she had a few hours. Instructions were to exit the program at sunset and return with their findings. That would give her plenty of time to immerse herself in the game world and see her creations in the 'flesh' so to speak.

Another detail that pleased her about DreamReal was the fact that her body appeared as it did when she was just 18 years old, over 11 years ago. Her stomach was completely flat and even solid to the point of being washboard-like; the same was true for the rest of her body. Flexing her arms and legs, she saw the taut, firm muscles contracting, clearly visible under her leggings and through the thin nylon material of her sleeves.

Despite only being 29 years old, it appeared that her body had changed drastically from what it had been when she was in college. The body she now ran her hands over, enjoying the coarseness of the leather and the flexible material that covered her arms and legs, felt young and strong. Even the port-wine stain birthmark on her forearm was gone, her porcelain skin unblemished and glowing with vitality.

Simon, you really know how to make a woman feel sexy

She stopped stroking her newly young body and laughed, looking around, wondering how the others were finding this new world.

# Chapter Six

They each had a section of the game world to cover, and would spend three real time hours plugged in which would equate to twenty-four hours in the game. Today Leanne would check on the characters of the high elves then head east to meet the elispians.

As she walked towards the edge of the forest, the constant twittering of birds and the drone of insects serenading her, a thought crept into her mind - she hadn't yet attempted to 'taste' the air. Something Simon had urged her to do while they were in the kitchenette one day earlier that week.

"It really does register - the taste, that is. I'm sure you know, Leanne, the taste of the air in the city is bitter and oily ... tainted, whereas in a natural habitat it's fresh and enlivening - the taste," he had said, in one of his bolder moments since she had known him.

"The team and myself have managed to incorporate scents, odors, tastes and so forth by mimicking the effect they have on the brain, within the computer system." Simon had stopped then, pausing to breath in his coffee, closing his eyes as he did so; Leanne had been amused at the sudden change in him. It wasn't like him to be so expressive but she found she liked it. When he had opened his eyes and found hers with his gray blue eyes, he continued, "You see, the wonderful aromatic scent of this coffee, is nothing more than a signal, one which instructs the brain to 'experience' and 'taste'. All we have done is pinpoint the exact locations of the brain that do that."

Leanne had nodded, it sounded simple enough but she knew it was extremely painstaking work and no doubt Simon himself, being the team leader of the environment team had played a big role, as well as Mike. No doubt Mike would try to take all the credit.

"I understand how these 'tastes' are signals, Simon. But how does the brain know how to label each one, to initiate each individual flavor, scent and feeling? There are so many."

Simon had smiled, and nodded as if she had confirmed something for him, "I knew you would be eager to question the concept, ... you are just as I thought, curious and keen to know more, not content to just be."

Leanne was stunned by his observation. He had obviously been admiring her from afar for some time but until then hadn't had the courage to talk to her.

"I'm no brain surgeon or specialist, Leanne, but from what I have learned from B-team, responsible for the 'human' aspect of this game, the brain is simply a computer. As such, it can be filled with programs... by linking DreamReal with the human brain, we have gained access to those programs."

Could it be true? So far it seemed to be and the system was almost infallible, with very few faults.

She stopped by a large oak, with thick branches covered in bunched outgrowths of leaves and golden brown colored acorns, hanging tantalizingly close, Leanne marvelled at the detail of the tree as she breathed in deeply.

She breathed in the hot summer air, feeling it's warmth as it entered her mouth and nose. Waiting, she closed her eyes and tried to discern the scent, the signal, after a mere few seconds she smiled, yes there was a scent, just as he had said.

The little pink wildflowers scattered by the river's edge gave off a sweet fragrance, and intermingled with that overpowering scent were the usual outdoor odors. The earthy, rich smell of the river, a few feet away from her, was the most evident, complemented by what Leanne had always referred to as the scent of life - the smell of trees, grass and other growing things carried on the gentle breeze that stirred the leaves and blades of grass around her.

"Incredible..." Leanne realized she had been admiring the world for nigh on ten minutes, and it was as if the longer she was there, the more her brain refused to behave as if it were merely information, and not the real thing.

Perhaps it was too perfect to be real anyway, idyllic and seemingly untouched by man.

Sighing, her body completely relaxed now, Leanne set off for the forest, heading east along the river, where she knew she would soon come upon the home of the noble elves, their homes perched high up in the trees.

Designing the elves had been the best part of the process for her. Professor Blake shared her love for them as a race, even though they were purely fictional. The very idea of a race that co-existed in a harmonious balance with nature, and the animals was far-fetched from a human perspective, but to Leanne and Professor Blake it was an ideal worthy of humanity's aspirations.

Walking through the forest, Leanne was frequently amazed by the details Simon and his team had thought to include in this amazing world. The forest floor was littered with small mushrooms and toadstools that she carefully avoided treading on. Hanging from the trees and branches were silvery, delicate spider webs that caught in her face several times, causing her to curse - she hated spiders. Still, the magic of the forest was enough to hold her attention until at last she came upon the home of the elves some 15 minutes later.

When she saw the first of the small huts, perched high amongst the leafy canopy above her head, she realized just how high up the elves were actually living. She guessed it must have been at least thirty feet above her. The hut roofs were made from the giant tree leaves with small reed bridges stretching between the trees. Simon and his team had really gotten creative on this one, no doubt with help from Professor Blake.

She passed under the hut and continued on, expecting at any minute to see a set of stairs or a lift of some kind but there was none, at least not in sight. The forest below the settlement, of which she now saw several buildings, was free of any buildings or means of getting into the trees?

As she passed into a clearing, a voice behind her, gentle and melodious.

"Hello, bartoon stranger. What brings you to these parts?"

Turning, she saw one of the elves, standing in an opening of a huge oak tree. She guessed he had emerged from within the tree itself and it was possibly a means of traveling to and from the settlement above her head.

The elf was even more charming than she had anticipated. Dressed in a green tunic and leggings, overlaid with what appeared to be leather armor, he was like a character from a fairytale. Blond, golden hued hair hung over his shoulders; several braids on each side and his small elfin features were boyish and pleasant to look upon. She realized he was waiting for an answer, his head cocked to one side as he waited, his forest green eyes curiously fixated on her.

"Oh, hello." She smiled and nodded, pleased so far. "I'm just passing through on my way to Green Valley."

"Green Valley? The Elipsian lands are just to the east of here, you are now passing through my people's home - Eluthria." He said, motioning to the huts interconnected by wooden walkways above; it was quite an expansive settlement.

Leanne heard a giggle behind her and turned but there was no one there. Puzzled, she looked back at the elf and he was smiling. He looked towards a moss-covered log off to her right and nodded. Leanne watched, waiting for the owner of the giggle to appear.

Several moments passed and then a little face peaked over the top of the log, a face with a pair of the most stunningly beautiful eyes she had ever seen. They looked at Leanne in awe, the intense turquoise orbes catching the shafts of sunlight that fell on the little girl's face.

"Hello there ... what's your name?" Leanne said, taking a step towards the shy figure that watched her from behind the log.

There was another giggle, this time off to her left and she realized there were several children hiding on the edges of the clearing, evidently shy. She laughed, pleased that so far, the A.I's were responding perfectly, just as she hoped they would. There was a huge difference between interacting in the confines of the lab and interacting within the game itself.

They seemed to be actually 'living'.

"Remayth drein, trusslor? A small voice questioned, behind her now and she turned to see a little form perched in the branches of a young Elm tree, almost camouflaged and she would not have seen the young male if he hadn't spoken.

She knew the elves also had their own language, but had yet to learn any of the words, so she had no idea what the young elf male had asked her.

"I'm sorry, I don't understand."

"Please excuse my son, he likes to tease the bartoons that pass through this area." The adult male elf then walked into the clearing and stopped at Leanne's side, before addressing the children scattered around the clearing. "Children, come out and show yourself, this bartoon means us no harm, don't be shy."

Within seconds, four young elves had peeled away from their hiding places and now stood before her in a huddled group, their young faces staring up at Leanne with wonder.

"What's your name, bartoon?" The boy from the tree asked confidently and the adult elf smiled and nodded pleased.

Leanne was struck by the realness of their behavior. They appeared to be acting as any group of children in the real world would, the adult male was clearly proud of his son.

She hadn't realized just how well she had programmed the characters in DreamReal. They each seemed to behave with their own personality, completely original and if one hadn't known beforehand, it might be easy to mistake them for the real thing.

Leanne stepped forward and knelt before them, before speaking, softly, "My name's Leanne Li. What are your names?"

The boy continued to be the spokesperson for the children. "I'm Ralih, and this is Eliy, Welsad and Tor." The boy said, pointing at the others as he named them before turning back to her. Leanne began to feel like she was an exhibit as their eyes watched her, examining her.

"It's nice to meet you all. You all have such beautiful names."

They beamed at her, their turquoise eyes shimmering and seemingly filled with fascination, but she knew they had limits as far as behavior was concerned. Just how far those limits went or would go she was no longer sure: they had already surprised her.

She remembered how Professor Blake had mentioned how it might be possible for such characters to evolve as the game wore on. The more they encountered, the more they would learn and therefore grow and develop just as people did in the real world.

Leanne smiled and held out a hand to the children. The little girl, previously shy, reached forward and took it, her little face filled with wonder.

Her skin felt real, soft and supple. Her touch gentle and warm. She smiled as the other children came forward, eager to touch her now that the little girl had done so. Her courage spreading to the others. The adult male stood and watched on, a slight smile on his face. "My name is Turim," he said. Slightly bowing his head. "Before you head on your journey, would you care to join me and my family for some refreshments?

Suddenly, all the worries that had played on her mind in the previous months were gone, replaced with happiness. Although she knew the elves weren't real, they still felt and acted so and Leanne allowed herself to forget the real world for the time being, while she enjoyed the company of the benevolent beings as they grew bolder and with it, friendlier.

"I would be honored" Leanne said, mimicking his slight bow. The children gave a squeal of delight. Rahil was quick to grab Leanne's arm to lead the way, practically pulling her as he went.

They soon came to another tree with a small opening at the bottom of the huge trunk and ducked through the small entranceway, which opened up to reveal a bigger chamber inside. A spiral staircase carved elegantly out of the tree itself climbed upwards to different levels with passages leading off into the darkness. There was a soft glow coming from somewhere above but it was almost like the tree itself was giving off a gentle light.

They walked up for a short time until the came to a little passage. Pushing aside a loose drape, Rahil revealed a small room. In the center was a low table with cushions seated all around it. "Welcome to my home!" Rahil said as the rest of the elves came in behind them.

"Please be seated" Turim said pointing to one of the large cushions. Looking around Leanne was impressed with the simple beauty of the place, small wooden carvings etched the walls, and all the furniture looked to have been made from the wood of the forest. There were two doorways leading off and Leanne could hear typical sounds of a kitchen coming from one of them. All the young Elves had soon seated themselves around the table, Rahil and Eliy sitting next to her. Soon a slender elf in robes of light brown came in carrying a large steaming bowl. Setting it down in the middle of the table she then turned to Leanne and extending a hand. "I'm Delori. It is always a pleasure to have guests for lunch."

"The pleasure is all mine I can assure you," said Leanne gently taking her hand. "This is such a wonderful home and you have such well mannered children."

Delori frowned slightly, the corners of her mouth gently curling it to a small smile. "Yes, when the choose to be." she said looking at Rahil who blushed slightly and turned away from his mother's glare.

"If I'd know you were joining us I would have prepared something special. As it happen were are just having a simple stew," Delori said.

"It may only be a simple stew but it smells amazing." said Leanne as Turim passed her a bowl.

As Leanna sat and shared the simple meal with the elves, she was overwhelmed with the pleasure it brought. They talked about trivial things, shared jokes and stories of what they had been doing. The bond between the family was strong and their familiarity of the actions was scarcely human. When the meal was finished, Leanne was promptly led on a tour house by Rahil. There was not much to it, a few simple bedrooms and a washroom, but it had an overwhelming sense of being someone's home.

She spent a few more minutes with the elf male and his children before bidding them farewell. Pleased her first encounter was such a positive success she set off with a bounce in her step. Leanne was feeling pleased, satisfied that the world was so much more than she had anticipated. Best of all, the A.I's were performing beautifully, almost like humans in the real world - she couldn't wait to tell Blake. If only there was some way of contacting him.

The elf, Turim, had told her that to the Northeast lived the Elipsians, a human-like species dominated by females, which Leanne already knew. It was her job to meet all the races in Nymphania to see how they were behaving.

# Chapter Seven

As she walked, her legs began to ache, the deeper she walked into the forest and as Simon had warned them the day before, the world was quite a large place and would take hours to walk from one end to the other. If it wasn't for the fact that tiredness was a very real issue within the game, she would have pressed on relentlessly. As it was though, she realized she would have to pace herself.

Leanne's leather map was safely tucked away inside the backpack, the virtual equivalent of her SD card. Having no watch or cell phone on her as she walked through the forest, climbing over gnarled tree roots snaking across the ground, Leanne felt a little isolated from the world. How often had it been that way for her though, she reminded herself. Never. Technology had always been at the forefront of her life and just as with the dating website earlier, it wasn't helping her much anyway. What she really needed was peace and some time to get her head together.

A day in DreamReal, away from technology might just be what the doctor ordered, she thought. She heaved herself up a grassy incline, gently sloping upwards, breathing in the sweet forest air.

Upwards she climbed, pulling on trees and bushes as she pressed onwards, determined to make it to the elipsian zone well before sunset. She had been walking for almost an hour and the ever-chattering forest, although tranquil and stunningly beautiful, was becoming a little irksome. It seemed to have no end, although the day before when they had been going over the maps of the area, she specifically saw the huge expanse of grassland - the home of the elipsians on the edge of the forest, but so far there was no sign of it.

Several times on the journey she had ducked out of sight as an animal passed by, searching for food in the lush and fertile forest. Once she thought she saw a group of Bartoons but on creeping closer she had been shocked to discover it was a troll accompanied by several goblins, dragging a large sack through the undergrowth, branches snapping under their careless feet.

From her hiding place, she could see they were headed in the same direction as her, towards the elipsians. She wished she could get a closer look at what they were dragging behind them.

Leanne was sure that the A.I should not be so active so early in the game which was still in need of more development. Quests and side-quests that would involve the player who could side with the forces of good or evil.

She watched from behind a tree and wondered whether these characters were showing signs of aggression already. Puzzled, Leanne wondered why they would be heading for the elipsian's territory. Were they already on some form of quest?

As she stood, and watched the figures fade into the sea of trees in the distance, she heard another sound - this time, behind her and she turned, feeling a little uneasy now at the sudden development.

Before her, stood four pale skinned warriors, dressed in a garb similar to that of the Elf warrior she had met before. They resembled the elf in every way except for their long braided jet-black hair, in stark contrast to their pale skin, giving them a somewhat sinister appearance.

Each one carried a bow, slung over his shoulder and a blade hanging from his belt, curved and deadly looking. They were fingering the handles of their blades as they regarded her, their faces expressionless.

They stood and watched her, unmoving, their dark menacing eyes appraising her as she held up her hands, showing them she meant no harm. Judging by their appearance, she doubted they saw her as any kind of threat.

Each one appeared to be a hardy, toughened warrior and the last thing that would frighten them, she assumed, would be a 5"6 little human female like her. They were all at least 6 feet tall and she could see taut, bunched muscles protruding through their dark garments.

They continued to stare so Leanne decided she should try to communicate with them.

"Hello, I'm Leanne. It's nice to meet you."

Holding out a hand, she offered it to the one who appeared to be the leader, shaking her hand gently to show him what she intended but he looked at it and then back at her, and shook his head.

"No, bartoon. Our ways are not yours, besides I wouldn't touch your filthy bartoon hide. I might catch something!" he spat, his voice hateful and filled with venom, although Leanne detected the melodious quality that all the Elves seemed to possess when they spoke. These were no doubt, dark elves. The question was - why were they here? This was high elf territory, not dark elf.

So far, from what she had seen the A.I was performing incredibly well. All the characteristics she had programmed into each race, being displayed for her to see. In keeping with the aim of the game, to create a fantasy setting in which the players would fight against each other and the DreamReal characters, Professor Blake had encouraged her to create both good and evil sides - unfortunately, the dark elves were evil.

Leanne was a little taken aback by his aggressiveness, although she was pleased they were behaving as she had programmed them. The bartoons and the dark elves were programed to have a deep-seated hatred of each other, like a memory that stemmed back thousands of years. Unfortunately for her, the dark elves before her appeared to be hostile towards her, as she was, in their eyes - a bartoon.

Smiling, she took a step back and tried a new tactic. "I'm sorry, forgive me. I understand, I shouldn't have been so short-sighted."

The dark elves faltered slightly, turning to each other, their eyes questioning. The leader, bearing a long scar from his left eye to his chin, a grotesquely gray, swollen blight upon his face, stepped forward.

"Do not apologize, bartoon. Your kind always were a little stupid," he said, his face impassive as he regarded her like she was an intruder on his territory. "Pray tell, why are you, a bartoon, here on the edge of elipsian territory?" He pointed into the trees just ahead and she realized she was close to her destination.

Yes, he was right. bartoons and elipsians didn't get along. In fact, in the game world, they were close to war. She was taking a risk, although it was hard to be genuinely afraid, it was after all, just a game, right?

She played along, enjoying the exchange and the dark elves extraordinary A.I. She was also wondering why they were on the edge of Elipsian territory but asking them wouldn't do her any favors so instead she decided to calm the situation.

"I come as an ambassador, seeking an audience with Queen Dana of the elipsian people," she said, holding his gaze. His gray-black eyes narrowed in suspicion as she lied to him.

The lead dark elf laughed suddenly, a high-pitched sound that had a feminine quality to it. Another trait of elves, she thought, they were so gentle and shared many feminine qualities with human females - in the real world, that is. Dark elves were more mischievous and may even attack her if provoked, that much she was sure of.

The other dark elves simply stood, and Leanne noticed that during the exchange, they had spread out from their original position and were now close to encircling her. Just a few feet more on either side and she would be surrounded. She became fearful, but it passed quickly when she remembered she only need speak the words "Exit Game" and she would be back in the real world, her consciousness extracted from the game world within seconds.

She had no weapons with which to fight them, if it came to that, but she didn't intend to fight them anyway. She would talk her way out of it.

The lead dark elf finally stopped laughing, and nodded, smiling. "I see, so now the bartoons are using females to do their dirty work?" He said taking another step forward, his posture altering slightly. Leanne sensed she was seconds away from being attacked and there were no words that would help her now.

She realized the folly of her words. The Bartoons were a male dominated race and so logically they would send a male ambassador, not a female. She was quickly digging herself into an even deeper hole and the dark elves clearly weren't simple minded. Despite the fact she knew this was merely a game, the situation was becoming worrying. She hadn't expected things to be so difficult. She noticed that the dark elves started to slowly shuffle sideways, moving further apart, their beady eyes fixed intently upon her.

She needed to act fast. Coming to a decision in a split-second she said the words, "Exit game." After several seconds she realized she was still in the game.

The dark elf before her took another step, and to her left and right, she sensed the other elves getting closer.

"What did you say, bartoon?"

"Exit game!" She said louder, a slight panic began to worm it's way into her consciousness. It had to be a malfunction of some kind? A glitch perhaps?

Leanne's mind raced, she was in no position to fight, this whole expedition had just been to engage and socialise with the characters. There was nothing left to do but flee.

Suddenly she bolted into a run, through the widest gap of the encircling elves. Leanne's heart beat fast as she ran as fast as she could, zigzagging through the maze of trees attempting to put distance between them, but the sounds behind her weren't promising.

She heard their cries and shouts behind her and wanted to look over her shoulder but she didn't dare, fearing she might stumble. Then it would be all over.

She focused hard on her running and getting to safety where she could evaluate her options and perhaps find another way back to reality.

Her legs ached badly, burning from the long walk through the forest. She wouldn't be able to run for long, but still she pushed herself onwards, adrenalin driving her forward. They may have been merely constructs of a game, but the look in their eyes had told her all she needed to know - they meant to harm her.

Behind her the sounds of pursuit ceased abruptly and as she scrambled up yet another tree-root ridden incline, she was filled with hope. Perhaps they had given up.

That hope vanished in a sudden explosion of pain.

Feeling like she had just been struck from behind, she stumbled forwards against the incline and cried out as a sharp sting shot through her body. She had no idea the game would affect the senses so realistically and now as she looked down and saw the bloody tip of a bone arrowhead protruding through the light leather armor over her stomach.

Leanne was vaguely aware of footsteps moving through the undergrowth behind her but she barely registered the sounds. Darkness enveloped her quickly as she lost consciousness, her body falling backwards and sliding down the incline towards her attackers.

The pain was intense, too intense. It should have been a mild tingling sensation but this felt way too real.

What the hell is going on?

She felt arms heave her off the ground and drag her, one word dominated her consciousness  why?

# Chapter Eight

Professor Blake paced back and forth, thinking, wracking his brain for a solution but he could only think of one way forward. The only way that would guarantee their safety.

He wasn't overly concerned that Leanne had been hurt and captured, that was all part of the game after all, albeit somewhat premature. For some reason the emergency exit command had failed Leanne and she had been attacked. It was very disconcerting. The only option was for him to go in, gather the group and lead them out through the only other exit available to them.

In the dim light of the control room he stopped pacing and watched the twitching bodies of Simon, Mike and Leanne in their chairs as they traversed the terrain within the game, each in their own designated area, completely oblivious to his presence before them in the real world. He gritted his teeth until his jaw ached, annoyed at the interruption. They were so close, he would not allow anything to disrupt the progress of the project, his life's work.

He walked over to Leanne's still form, her face etched in pain as though the arrow impaling her in the game world was real. Blake knew it certainly 'felt' real, at least to a certain degree.

The game had to 'feel' real otherwise how would it differ from any other 3D gaming world? During the design period, he had insisted that the players would be capable of feeling with as many senses as possible. He had hired the best experts from all over the world to tweak and add to his grand vision.

Reaching out to the screen, he patted Leanne's arm wishing she could feel the gesture. She was a tough one, that was why he admired her so much and there wasn't much she couldn't or wouldn't do, much like himself when he was younger.

This project meant everything to him and Leanne's involvement was paramount to its success. He knew that much. It was simply hard to separate his fatherly feelings for her from their work on DreamReal. Each day had been a struggle for him as he had watched Mike flaunt his arrogance around the office like some testosterone-fuelled cockerel.

Blake looked over at Mike, who was speaking to someone, his lips moving animatedly as he conversed and Blake scowled, his eyes narrowing in suspicion. The time would come when Mike would no longer be needed, but for now, he was the best at what he did, and DreamReal wasn't ready.

In time...

"Professor?"

"Yes, Mary, what is it?" He said impatiently, ready to deny the eager young technician's suggestion once again.

He turned to her, a wistful smile on his kind face as she began to offer yet another idea as to what they might do to get the team back.

"We could rewrite certain sections of the code, and create an exit so ..." Her voice was filled with hopeful eagerness and Professor Blake nodded, pleased.

Still, there was only one option.

"Very good Mary but no, that would disrupt the fabric of the game and possibly cause a malfunction within the system. It's just too risky while they are all plugged in like this," he said, stepping down from the gaming platform and making towards the rest of M-team who were gathered around the monitors in the next room, watching the team within DreamReal.

Mary sighed; clearly annoyed that she couldn't do anything to help. That was one of the reasons he liked her so much, she was like a younger version of Leanne, so stubborn and headstrong. She never knew when to admit defeat.

"So if we can't shut the system down, disconnect them or rewrite the code while they are in the game world what can we do?" Mary slumped into one of the chairs by the long console, an array of monitors and other electronic devices beeped, measured and tracked.

"Get me one of the spare headsets could you Mary? There's one in the equipment room."

Professor Blake slowly removed his tweed jacket, before folding it and placing it over the arm of a chair, then began to remove his tie, his face serious, and his eyes burning with determination.

Five minutes later Mary returned with the headset in her hand, looking at Professor Blake worriedly.

"I'm going in after them." His steely gray eyes flicked to the last remaining gaming chair.

The others turned to look at him, concern etched across their features, who would they turn to if he got stuck inside?

Blake smiled at the shocked faces of M-team. There was no danger to him at least not yet. His character was sufficiently powerful to keep him out of stressful situations and besides, he was a 'young' fifty-nine.

"Don't try to talk me out of it... I'm going in, it's the only way I can bring them back safely."

"But how?" Tom, the communications engineer asked, looking up from Mike's monitor, brightness illuminating the concern that was contorting his face. Tom had always been too quick to jump to conclusions. His weakness. He made up for it in other ways though.

"I know of a way, another exit, within the game world, but with no way of communicating with the team, I have to go in, find them, and lead them to it before things get any worse." His voice was calm.

Mary stepped towards him, her hands resting on his chest.

"No, you can't Professor..."

"Can't what? Who knows more about DreamReal than me? I created it. I know the game and I know how to end this. It's merely a blip in an otherwise successful test," he said, batting Mary's hands away, his voice firm and unrelenting.

They couldn't talk him out of it. DreamReal was his life's work, and this test was the pretest to the greatest moment of his life. The moment when he would deliver a reality within reality, another world where magic was possible and players could be anyone they chose to be. An escape from the mundane existence the world was quickly becoming.

Tom and the others stared on in silence, knowing they wouldn't change the old man's mind no matter how much they attempted to do so.

"Mary, not another word." Professor Blake said. "Prepare my chair, please." He met Mary's stare and saw the concern in her eyes.

"Look, stop acting like this is going to be the last time you might ever see my old face. I'm fifty-nine not one hundred and nine!" Waving Mary's attempted assistance away with a hand as he laughed heartily, the anticipation of the journey into the world stirring his sense of humor into action.

Mary strapped in the Professor checking the settings as he put on the chrome headset. Tom watched the heart and brain monitors as they started to display his readings. Everything seemed normal. Blake looked up at the watching technicians.

"I'll be seeing you on the other side. You can't monitor me as I'm not officially in the system. Hold the fort for me till I get back."

# Chapter Nine

The Queen of the Elipsians watched herself in the huge mirror that took up the entirety of the west wall, reflecting back her image as she performed pull-up after pull up, her long powerful fingers clasped tightly around one of many worn looking bars she used to exercise.

Her room was filled with implements that allowed her to keep her body honed and ready for war, ready for the challenge she knew was coming.

The queen was a powerfully built figure with long legs, hard flat stomach and ample breasts. An intricate tattoo partly revealed itself, snaking up her pale skin and over the landscape of her curves. She taken care to keep her figure balanced, enough to allow her to still be nimble and lithe, flexible but tough, like leather.

In the background behind her, through thin wispy white drapes that stirred slightly in the breeze, a large expanse of green could be seen overlooked by dark mountains in the distance, jagged and threatening like claws. It was her empire and soon the dark elves would give all to her, not just their loyalty but their lands.

A single bead of sweat dripped from her forehead, landing on the thick sheepskin rugs at her bare feet. She frowned, sweat was a rare thing for her, unusual. She halted and dropped down from the pull-up bar, watching her slender but powerful arms as the muscles eased back into place. She was a stunningly beautiful woman, with large voluptuous lips and almond shaped eyes that glowed bright green in the sunlight.

Many a male had thrown himself at her, attempting to gain her hand in marriage but she was as ferocious a lover as she was a fighter and like a black widow, she had disposed of them, after having her way. It was said that a night with her was worth the risk, but only the greatest lovers survived to tell the tale. It took a ferocious lover to please such a voracious appetite.

The deep thumping sound of the drums outside her chamber sounded suddenly as they were struck, her guards announcing the arrival of a guest.

Smiling, Queen Dana walked slowly to her bed and slowly eased herself onto the array of cushions that lay strewn over the purple silk sheets.

At the sight of her, most men struggled to compose themselves, their bodies letting them down and Queen Dana was most disappointed when that happened.

She heard footsteps on the stone walkway outside her door and smiled, pulling the long bladed crystal dagger from her dark black hair, letting it fall freely over her shoulders, where it came to rest on the bed around her, over her shapely thighs and the silk gown that covered them.

Her royal guards entered, a man in their midst. Tall, dark and hooded.

"Your highness, here is your guest, the traveller.

Her guards were all women, as were all soldiers in her kingdom. Elipsians had no place for men in such a position. It had been that way for millennia, although men had their uses, she thought as she watched the figure before her.

"Leave me, now." The queen's voice was firm, with a hint of threat and her guards bowed and left, their bodies equally as skimpily clad as their queen, though the stranger only had eyes for Dana and ignored them.

"Your highness."

At once the guards disappeared, closing the iron clad door behind them with a thud, leaving the two of them alone.

"Well...?" She said, her eyes boring into the figure, her gaze intense.

The figure threw back his hood, revealing a young but hardened face, ruggedly handsome. The man was over six feet tall and his body was clad in shimmering, silver chain mail that glinted in the rays of sunlight arcing into the queen's chamber, giving his entire body a radiant glow.

He stepped forward, his heavy boots loud on the stone floor of her chamber, and bowed low to the ground. A surprising gesture for one of his size, as his movement was graceful and easy.

She nonchalantly ran a finger down her neck, her eyes fixated on him, alluring yet menacing.

"I apologize for the intrusion your highness," the man said nervously, rising up to his full height once more, his eyes flicking over her figure. Her long slender finger tracing a line along the leather straps of her armour.

"I have a request, your highness," the man said, his eyes still fixed firmly on the finger that slowly glided down the glistening black leather to her powerfully built thighs.

"Yes, I believe you have. What is it? And it better be worth it. You know how I deal with those who promise much, only to let me down..." Her voice was low and menacing.

"There is a girl in the market, she was captured by dark elves and is now about to be sold, as a slave," the man said.

"And ...?" Queen Dana said alluringly, her right hand moving up to the clasp at her shoulder while her left moved out of sight. The man watched carefully, his own breathing quickening.

"I need you to buy her. She may be useful to us ... very useful."

The queen, popped the clasp and the leather straps fell away from her left shoulder, exposing her firm breast to the air and the stranger took a deep breath. He glanced around the chambers, rubbing his clammy hands before returning his gaze to the queen.

"Really? A woman you say?"

The right shoulder clasp popped open revealing both of her firm full breasts. Her nipples were hard like bullets, surrounded by dark areolas.

"I was hoping to come to some arrangement, with gold coins if that is agreeable?" he said, looking away from her as she peeled away more garments. She glided towards him seductively, moving behind him with her hand trailing around his chest, slowly removing his chain mail, which dropped to the floor.

"Hmm, gold you say. I prefer a more intimate arrangement, wouldn't you agree?" Her voice was a mere whisper, close to his ear. Her hand moved down his stomach before resting on his leather loincloth, her fingers skilfully untying the string, giving her hungry fingers access to his manhood.

"I'm not sure. I'd prefer..." his voice trailed away as she massaged him to involuntary hardness. She turned him around to face her and planted her ruby lips on his, searching him with her tongue and moaning as their lips locked. The traveller pulled away for air and gasped.

"My queen, I must insist that we make another arrangement."

The queen frowned at him with annoyance but stayed close, her hands stroking his back before clawing her nails into his skin that made him wince at the pain.

"I like my arrangement better. Or there's no deal," she hissed.

"Very well, my queen. For this woman must be bought."

# Chapter Ten

Leanne felt the searing pain in her stomach once again, forcing her back into consciousness. She sensed bodies near her, groans of misery but could see nothing but darkness. She tried to move her arms but a tightness cut into her wrists adding to her sense of helplessness.

Where was she? What had happened?

Then the memory came back to her: the woodland, the dark elves and the arrow of pain. She must be tied and blindfolded somewhere, awaiting god knows what fate.

Leanne gave silent thanks that the game world couldn't kill them although she knew that wasn't actually strictly true. Yes, it could not 'directly' kill them, merely hurt them, but if they went without sustenance for too long ....

"Hello, who is here? Where am I?" she half croaked, her voice betraying her fragile state.

There was a snigger of derision.

"Welcome to the world of slaves bartoon," a distinct elven accent replied.

"You'll fetch a pretty penny we reckon. We were taking bets," said another more human voice.

"Can anyone remove this damned blindfold?" Leanne snapped, already losing patience with the sarcastic responses.

"We'll wave some magic dust from our nostrils and you'll see clear as day, my lovely." Another chorus of snarky laughter.

Leanne sighed with frustration and continued to try to make sense of her surroundings, slowly moving her feet: which she soon realized were untied. In the background the noise of a crowd, the clomping of horses and random shouts that told her she must be in a town.

Suddenly a high-pitched screech of what sounded like an ancient metal door followed by shouts of protest of those around her. A commotion kicked off and she felt a loose boot to her thigh and a sickening thud of hard wood to someone's body. The protesting died and the door clunked shut.

Leanne suddenly felt a touch of something on her arm that made her flinch and clench her fists, ready to resist.

"It's Ok, my name is Alicious. I will try to help you," a smooth quiet female voice reassured her. As soon as the voice spoke the blindfold eased upwards and Leanne's eyes fluttered open, adjusting to the dim light. She found herself staring at the most beautiful oval shaped clear blue eyes that looked back at her unblinkingly. They were the eyes of a nymph female, who stood at no more than three feet tall.

She wore a tight tunic, a belt that glinted in the darkness and her beautiful wings were clipped together to prevent escape.

"Are you in pain?" Leanne asked Alicious, ignoring her own predicament as she nodded towards the wings.

"Pain, yes. But pain is only one level of consciousness. All nymphs learn to isolate and separate these levels."

"I sure wish I could do that," said Leanne, winching as the stomach pain returned in waves. Alicious stroked Leanne's dark hair with her tiny hand, as if comforting her.

"You need to box away the pain as if it is in another body, somewhere else."

Leanne smiled to herself at the irony as she thought of her body in sleep, strapped to a chair and wired to the game. She looked at the beautiful nymph, glad to have found a friendly face. "That actually makes me feel better, thank you."

"Hey, Alicious. How about undoing these cuffs and opening that door while you're at it?" The gruff voice interrupting them came from a stout ogre who squatted in the corner glaring at them both. For the first time Leanne saw she was in a large steel cage, packed with miserable looking characters from every race on Nymphania.

Two female guards, their knee high boots kicking up dust from the ground appeared, laughing and joking as they approached. The painful screech of the cage door bit the air once again and one of the guards pointed at Leanne.

"You! Out now," she barked.

Leanne glared back angrily and did not move. Not bothering to repeat the order the guard marched into the cage, lifting her stick to swipe any unfortunate body in her way and walked up to Leanne, grabbing her hair and pulling her along the ground. Dirt got into her eyes and mouth adding to her pain and yet she was determined to hold onto what Alicious had said; to box out the pain and keep focused. A roar of protests rose up from the other prisoners as Leanne cried out, yearning to resist in some way but quickly realizing it was useless doing so. Soon she was hauled to her feet and pushed by a hard stick into the small of her back through a baying crowd towards a high wooden platform where it seemed other prisoners were lined up.

Still slightly blinded by the dirt in her eyes and the stark sunlight from above, she allowed herself to be dragged up onto the platform and held in place while shackles were placed on her legs.

Lined up alongside her were several other prisoners - slaves she thought. They were all human, all male and every last one of them was covered in bloody welts that suggested they had been lashed. The fear washed over her again.

In the space before them, on a wooden platform, a tall gangly figure dressed in barely more than rags was arguing with the crowd, touting prices and haggling, frenziedly, his hands throwing up shapes and numbers to his left and right, two fingers there and three here.

It was a sale and Leanne was one of the commodities. It appeared at that moment that she was the hottest item up for sale and dozens of staring faces leered at her, ogling her body as she stood limply.

He body ached and her mouth was so dry that when she attempted to lick her lips, her tongue didn't move. Coupled with the pain and exhaustion she felt, the lack of water was sucking the life from her, so much so that she wished someone would buy her quickly, to spare her from the intense heat.

The crowd was made up of all kinds of species, all of which she recognized. There were the short, robust dwarves who waved their axes in the air, as they bartered aggressively. Then there were the wolven, humanoid, standing on two legs, but covered in thick, rangy black hair and with horrible long snouts from which protruded prickly, needle-like teeth. She hoped they didn't succeed in buying her. She knew from the game design stage that they ate flesh, whether or not they could eat her, she didn't know, but she didn't wish to find out.

There were dark elves amidst the crowd too and several humans.

One particular hooded figure stood out, his face obscured by the crowd. His dress was different to the others and he appeared to be much more careful and deliberate in his movements. She wasn't quite sure what made him stand out until he raised an arm and called out a price for her.

Somehow, she knew the movement could only belong to a human, a 'real' human - one of her team. It had to be. She tried to see the figure more clearly, squinting in the harsh sunlight but it was impossible. Still, it gave her renewed faith that she still might escape her situation alive and well.

For ten minutes, the bidding war went on between the hooded stranger and the wolven until just when it seemed the hooded stranger had succeeded in buying her, a group of female warriors marched into the dusty square and addressed the slave master.

"You are to hand over the Human woman, by order of the queen."

"But I paid good money for her," the slave master argued, his whining voice reminding Leanne of a rat's squeal.

The muscular woman tossed him a bag that clinked as if it were filled with metal and upon inspecting it, the slave master grunted and signalled for his men to release her to the warriors.

Who were they? They didn't look friendly. They were clad in leather armour, simply leather straps that criss crossed their bodies, barely concealing their flesh. They reminded her of a troupe of dominatrix' only they carried weapons, their hands resting on the pommels of short swords which they looked more than capable of wielding.

She recalled that there were two 'human-like' races on Nymphania - the Bartoons, dominated by men and the Elipsians, the most powerful of the six races on Nymphania, dominated by women. She could be in the capital city of Elipsianis.

Leanne managed to turn and look at the hooded figure one last time who had turned and was now heading the other way, his black cloak billowing out behind him. She snarled with frustration as the female warrior guards grabbed her by the arms and struggled and kicked. She was not going to make it easy for them.

The women dragged her roughly through the streets heading towards a tall, white castle in the distance, its hundreds of spires rising up seemingly touching the clouds above. Leanne checked her surroundings to see if she recognized the area from her studying of the game maps and terrain.

To her left, a fountain with two stone statues, both strong muscular women sporting long pointed spears and tall shields. Water sprayed forth from the tips of their spears arcing into a small pool below where men in rags washed themselves.

Most of the buildings were made of stone with little in the way of decorum. The stonework suggested the early beginnings of a flourishing race, one ready to take on the challenges of a new age.

They headed deeper into the city, the powerful women barging through a group of men, one of them lashing out with a hand, catching and knocking a man to the ground easily.

"Get out of our way!"

Leanne's eyes widened suddenly, the women, they were the dominant sex. Yes, it made sense. She cursed silently, she was clearly in the realm of Queen Dana and it looked as though she was being led to the castle.

What would the queen want with her?

She would find out soon enough.

# Chapter Eleven

The sky was murky blue, early evening was setting in and the sun now long gone over the horizon. With the sun setting and the moon taking the reins to illuminate the land, a lull set in before night creatures took over, their dark shifting shapes, soon to be crawling and creeping as they sought their prey.

The gaming team were supposed to have arrived safely back in the real world by now, but instead the consciousness of each player was somewhere within the game - lost and hopeless.

A rider appeared atop a distant hill, just outside the city of Elipsianis and spurred his horse onwards, eager to reach his destination before the full dark set in. The forest in this area was not a friendly place to be at night but he needed to be there. The gravity of the situation required it and he was the only one in a position to do anything. He was afraid, no matter how hard he tried to convince himself otherwise, the icy cold surges of fear that shot through him at the slightest stirring in the undergrowth reminded him of the truth.

Galloping through a valley, the shadowy tops of the hills around him seemed to rise up like night creatures, intent on swallowing him. He pulled his cloak tighter around himself, both to fend off the early evening chill and to block out the night and what it held.

Reaching the end of the valley, the figure reined in his horse for a moment and listened, he had heard something, a familiar sound. It rang out again, through the steadily darkening night air. This time there was no mistaking the blood-curdling howl of a wolf, and the figure knew these were no ordinary wolves. He was afraid but he had no choice. These unpredictable wolven were his last hope even though he couldn't shake the nagging feeling that he was riding into an ambush.

A thin mist was beginning to snake its way through the trees and over the tops of the hills, obscuring his view. Summoning courage from the depths of his being, he pushed his steed onwards, despite its reluctance to go any further.

For several more minutes he rode, deeper into the forest, the darkness now complete, making it hard to discern branches and trees ahead of him. The gloom was so deep that he had to slow his horse to a slow trot, and for several more minutes he rode like that, the forest beginning to come alive all around him. The night creatures emerging.

Finally, the clearing, thick with mist, lay before him. He breathed a sigh of relief upon finding it.

Ahead of him, two red eyes glowed brightly in the pitch black, the rest of the creature invisible in the darkness and the figure steeled himself before speaking.

"I have come seeking an audience... will you hear me?"

The red eyes, several meters away from him, never once blinked. They remained fixed upon him in an unnerving stare that reminded the figure he was in 'their' territory. They could easily attack him if they wished, but what would they gain from that? If they captured him, they could keep him as long as they wanted, while his body slowly deteriorated back in the real world.

Jesus, I need to get out of here.

The voice belonging to the eyes spoke up. "That depends, what is it exactly that you want from us, bartoon?" The voice rasped from the darkness.

The figure was silent for a moment, as if thinking, and then continued.

"I need some troops to fight with me, it might be dangerous but I can pay well, if you would do this for me."

The eyes blinked finally and then suddenly a piercing howl tore through the night air, causing the hairs on the back of the figure's neck to stand on end. His horse reared up and almost threw him and that's when he saw more eyes glowing in the dark behind him and to the left of him in the woods - he was surrounded.

In the distance, a series of howls erupted, filling the night air with a chilling cacophony that signalled the approach of a dozen or so wolven, those whose aid he had come to enlist.

"Very well, but you will need to come to our settlement ... if you dare," the voice rasped, a mocking quality entering its voice, "Our leader will negotiate a 'fair' price."

"Of course, let us make haste for there is little time."

The wolven before him moved in the undergrowth, several branches snapping loudly in the night, "Follow me human, my kind are the most silent creatures of the forest, but for you I will make enough noise so that you may know where I am. Now move!" The eyes disappeared and suddenly a series of rustling, cracking noises erupted ahead of him as the large wolven moved through the forest.

If things went his way, he would have a small army of wolven at his disposal; otherwise he may find himself in a very awkward situation.

The thoughts did him no good, so he pushed them aside and followed the snapping branches ahead in the dark forest; the rustling of crawling things all around him in the dark.

# Chapter Twelve

Leanne was thrown to the ground where she fell heavily, jarring her elbow, the pain was excruciating but she gritted her teeth not wishing to give the grinning queen any more satisfaction.

Staring down on Leanne from her huge pure white throne that looked to be carved from ebony, although it would have to be a huge elephant for such a large seat to be made from its tusks, the queen cast an imposing figure.

Did such creatures exist in DreamReality? She had no idea, perhaps Simon and the others had added them. They had already surprised her immensely with their incredible attention to detail, so she supposed there would no doubt be even more surprises in store.

"Welcome to my court, little one!" The queen exclaimed, her long arms gesturing to the huge room in which they sat. The four walls around them were adorned with pictures, images that told of a history rich in war and conquest, wars fought only by the women and Leanne wondered who had made the time to add such intricate details to the game world. The workmanship was extraordinarily good and would have taken months to complete.

The queen herself was no doubt a daunting figure on the battlefield and as she leaned forward over her, Leanne was stunned at her size, she must have been almost two meters in height and her body wasn't exactly slender. The muscles on her arms stood out like the wires snaking through the DreamReal control center. She was incredibly beautiful though, and her large breasts were squashed beneath long leather straps that snaked across her body. The straps were bright red and Leanne was reminded of those dominatrix-like females that had dragged her to this place.

She thought of Mike then, and wondered where he might be at that moment. Was he terrorizing the elipsian females?

She watched the queen from her position at her sandaled feet, thinking how she would love to put her in her place. Leanne Li was no walkover and had studied Kung Fu as a girl. Though, judging by the size and shape of all the women, including the queen, in Elipsianis, she would stand no chance against them, especially considering their numbers.

She had to play it safe and wait for the opportunity to escape. It was difficult to remain composed, and the way the queen was staring at her, reminded her of a dog eyeing up a steak dinner.

Leanne had been forcibly washed and made to wear the traditional garb of the elipsian female. Thankfully, they hadn't made her wear the revealing leather straps that the warriors and their queen wore. Instead she wore a bright blue gown that felt like silk against her skin, and rustled with every movement she made. It was flimsy but at least it covered her up for the most part.

Outside, sunset had come and gone and Leanne wondered when she would be able to return to reality.

What would Professor Blake do? Surely, at that very moment he must have been wracking his brilliant mind for a solution to the problem.

She suddenly felt a wave of fear wash over her and shake her strong resolve.

What if its just me, that can't get back? What if I'm the only one stuck here? The thought sent a chill down her spine, but she forced herself to remain impassive on the outside. She wouldn't give Queen Dana the satisfaction of seeing her wilt under the pressure. Taking a deep breath to focus her self, Leanne began to reason. This after all was just a game, a series of puzzles to be overcome. If she kept her mind focused she would see the solution when it came. It was just a matter of time.

The festivities began in earnest suddenly. The Queen clapped her hands three times. All around her male slaves clad in dull colored robes threw something - a powder - she thought, into the fires that burned within large bronze bowls mounted on pedestals all around the room and the flames within shot into the air, changing color as they did so.

Gasps erupted all around the huge hall as the queen's guests and subjects marvelled at the display. It was the ushering in of the first of the night's festivities.

Leanne, sat at the long, slender feet of the queen and scanned the hall, watching as the tables lined with noblemen and women - all similarly clad in flowing, and in some cases - see through - robes much like her own, came to life and began partaking of the sumptuous feast laid out before them. All around, the tables, which were low to the ground, framed a central point in the middle of the hall that was empty save for a huge sea of furs. Slave men darted, filling wine glasses and running platters of food obediently.

Leanne wondered if such a world would be possible in reality. Would men really succumb to the overwhelming power of women - to this extent? She doubted that. In fact, she hated to see it, men were supposed to be strong and dominant - not women, although Leanne herself was a strong woman, she still believed that men and women had their place and this wasn't it.

In one corner of the room, minstrels played a feisty melodious tune that was accompanied by the beating of drums, lending a medieval air to the party. Queen Dana sat beaming, watching proceedings, enjoying her power.

"My dear, are you enjoying the feast?" Leanne heard Queen Dana's deep husky voice behind her. A long muscular arm snaked around her body and pulled her to face the queen. Her green, unfaltering eyes fixed upon Leanne as if she were her plaything.

Leanne decided to play it safe and not risk angering the queen. Something told her this was not a woman to be crossed.

She smiled up at the queen and nodded, "Yes, it's wonderful, I especially like the music, and it's so enthralling."

The queen laughed, her huge bosom heaving, pushing her breasts against the already strained red leather there. "Enthralling?" She said in a mocking tone, turning to one of her elite guards who stood stone-faced at her right-hand side, "What do you think? Is this music enthralling?"

Remaining expressionless, the dark-skinned guard shook her head, "No, my queen. It is merely the pre-entertainment music, worthy only of slaves and is used to summon the entertainers as has been the tradition for centuries." The guard's voice was emotionless and Leanne was surprised at her words.

The queen seemed satisfied and turned, clapping her hands loudly once more, giving a signal. The music changed abruptly.

"This music is enthralling, but of course, a slave-girl like yourself would naturally enjoy 'slave' music." A faster drum beat began, followed by a wind-instrument that played a fast-paced melody, the tempo of the music building, before several more wind-instruments added their cheery sound to the mixture, and finally a string instrument completed the vibrant music that sounded like it belonged to an Arabic culture.

"This is 'real' music," The queen laughed, rising from her throne before descending the marble steps to where Leanne sat upon the cold stone floor.

"Guards, bring her."

Leanne was seized and dragged roughly after the queen who strode confidently into the center of the room, amidst the sea of furs, and raised her long, arms motioning for the room to be silent, which it was, in an instant. Silence descended and as Leanne stood, eyes glaring at her persecutors, her wrists crushed together by the one sturdy hand of the queen's right-hand guard, she couldn't help but feel like she was 'on display.'

Once the room was completely silent, the long tables of brightly dressed women, and in contrast, men in dull colors, to signify their standing in society, the queen began to address the room.

"My people, we are a proud race, the finest race on all of Nymphania ... by far."

The room cheered and shouts of agreement roared all around the room.

She continued, her voice growing lower, a tinge of concern edging it. "But, this is not enough for some of us, for some of you ... is it?"

The room fell silent and Leanne watched, seeing the frightened reaction of one of those seated at the central table, a large robust man wearing a turban and flanked by two powerfully built female warriors, began to panic, his eyes wide with fear.

"I trusted you." she said, her voice venomous. "You, a mere man." She spat at her feet, her head jerking with the action, causing her long dark hair to fall over her eyes. She batted the hair away before reaching for something in her boot.

"This man betrayed us all. He worked in cahoots with the enemy, worked alongside them as if they were his own people, the ENEMY!" She cried, rage filling her voice, her eyes blazing fury, a frightening sight.

Those seated around the three long tables in the hall, with around two hundred people in total roared in answer, furious, both men and women. The men, Leanne noticed, were less ferocious in their reaction.

The fat man tried to leave his seat, pushing at the warrior to his right but she held him in place along with the warrior at his left, and he cried out for forgiveness.

"Please, don't kill me, please my queen I swear it will never happen again ..." The room watched in silence, knowing what was coming, and he too sensed it.

In her hand, which was now at her side, the queen held a long bladed dagger, its' point needle thin and deadly.

With a deft flick and barely a change in posture, the queen sent the dagger in a perfectly aimed trajectory for the wailing man. A millisecond later, the knife lodged in his throat. A series of gargling sounds emitted from his mouth; his hands reached for the wound momentarily before he slumped on the ground; his life ebbing away. The two warrior females dragged his body away silently and the queen clapped again, four times.

"Let the show begin." She cried out.

Suddenly the music began to play once more, and once again the slave men threw powder into the flames, causing them to roar and change color from green, to red, to purple and back to orange again.

The air filled with a myriad of scents, strong musky scents that made Leanne feel slightly heady.

"Bring her." The queen commanded her guards and they dragged her after the queen as she took up a place at the head of the central table and clapped five times in rapid succession, eager to get the festivities started once more.

Leanne was pushed into one of the hard, wooden chairs two places down from the queen, and told to "eat."

The queen washed down a hunk of chicken with a mouthful of wine and turned to Leanne, "My dear, I can see why he asked me to purchase you, you are rather beautiful, but still, watch and you shall see real beauty." She motioned to the center of the room and Leanne turned to watch the show unfolding before them.

The music had slowed now, to a lazy, slow tempo dominated by the wind instruments and before them, the furs began to move, and undulate and Leanne saw limbs begin to emerge from beneath them, long slender, milk-skinned limbs that moved slowly, deliberately.

The entire room was fixated on the scene, Leanne swore the scents were now becoming even more overpowering than before, making her feel light-headed, but no one else in the room seemed to be bothered.

The figures under the rugs now emerged fully, some male, others female and with the music they moved their bodies, slowly, gracefully, effortlessly, in a dance that brought them closer to one another.

The dancing figures were completely naked, and the perfect, beauty took Leanne. They were sensual and alluring but not in the usual unsophisticated manner of say a strip club. No, these men and women bore no resemblance to mere strippers. It was as if they were born to love, to make love and as she watched, she was struck by the expressions upon their long, high-cheek-boned faces.

Each one of the slowly moving figures looked hungry, famished, but not for food, for something else. When she met the eyes of one - a young male with incredibly deep purple eyes, she knew immediately what they hungered for - sex.

In those seconds that she held the swaying man's gaze, his elfin eyes wanting her, she felt her body stir, her loins respond to his unspoken request, a wave of desire washing over her, until she reminded herself that these were merely characters - not people. Besides, she was their captive, and the last thing she should be contemplating was making love to one of their - sex slaves. That was no doubt what they were.

Licking her lips, the queen clapped again, six times.

Now the figures began to pair up, grasping and stroking each other, using lips and hands to explore each others bodies, and some of those watching around Leanne began to rub themselves, a low moan beginning around the room, an unremitting drone as the watchers were filled with desire.

Leanne herself was struggling to keep composure.

The figures were making love before them now, in various positions, their impassioned cries and facial expressions causing Leanne to become even more aroused. She felt a hand on her shoulder - the queen.

"Come with me, immediately." The queen ordered, her voice commanding, but underpaid with the unmistakable breathlessness that only comes from unbridled desire.

Leanne hesitated.

What does she want with me?

Seeing her hesitation, the queen ordered her guards to take her and follow her, dragging Leanne once more, this time into a stone passageway.

The queen stopped and turned, regarding her in the dim light, her chest heaving. "You have two options, little one. Come with me and pleasure me ... or the dungeons, and only then because 'he' wants you alive."

Leanne hesitated once more, more out of shock than fear. Such an audacious request. Leanne looked up into the queen's eyes, a small smile dancing across her lips. "I will never pleasure you; I am not some toy for your entertainment. Your time controlling me is limited, Queen Dana..." Leanne said dipping into a mocking bow.

The queen's face clouded over, a rage of emotion brewing beneath the surface., "Your time will come, we'll see if a few days in the dark with no food will help that attitude problem ... take her away, let the rats have her."

As the guards dragged her through a series of dark tunnels, Leanne wondered if she had made the right decision. She may have lost a good chance to escape, and all she had to do was play the queen's sex slave.

Not in a million years, she thought as she was thrown roughly into a cell.

Not in a million years....

# Chapter Thirteen

The floor of the dark windowless cell was cold and damp and no matter how hard she tried she couldn't keep warm. A perpetual chill seemed to permeate the walls and floor of the lower regions of the castle she was now a captive in, and Leanne wondered how long it would be before her body in the real world would begin to break down.

She thought about the day and how it had led her to this point.

In the morning, ironically, she had felt like curling up into a ball and hiding from the world, now here she was, her wish granted.

Slamming a fist onto the cold stone floor where she lay, she grimaced as a very real pain shot up her arm. The pain was a dulled version of the real thing, but it still hurt.

Unfortunately the five senses still worked here just as they did in the real world and that meant things like temperature could hurt players, after all, it was the player's consciousness that was essentially controlling the effect on the body. Even if it wasn't real the effects were.

Professor Blake would be disappointed, but she knew he would find a way. It was simply a matter of programming; more restrictions upon feeling would help drastically.

One other thing bugged her. As she strained to see in the utter darkness of her cell, knowing the bars were somewhere in front of her, she thought she heard sounds in the distance, metallic sounds.

Her teeth chattered incessantly and her back was aching from the constant muscle spasms as the cold bit into her. She fought on, thinking how she had perhaps made a grave mistake.

Perhaps she had made the A.I too smart. She had only wanted to help Professor Blake achieve his dream of building a gamer platform that was like the 'real' thing. She smiled in the darkness, but it was a rueful smile. If only she had done more testing, she would have seen this coming and toned down the A.I.

Self-evolving A.I ... I think it's safe to say that we achieved that Professor Blake ... what's that?

There was a scream. She listened, straining her ears.

Another scream, metallic noises again and then silence.

Something was happening out there. Fighting.

She didn't want to believe that someone had come to rescue her, she couldn't bear the disappointment, so she pushed thoughts of escape aside and turned to face the wall, ignoring the thud of a wooden door as it struck the wall out in the corridor somewhere.

The sound of a key in a lock; a click and a door opening with a creak. Leanne braced herself to resist whoever was coming in.

"Leanne?" A voice in the darkness behind her.

"Who's there?" she said, turning to see a figure illuminated in the doorway by a flaming torch, held in one hand. The figure was wearing a thick black cloak and it dawned on her in that split second that this was the figure from the marketplace.

"Yes, who are you?"

"It's me, Simon. We've come to rescue you."

"Simon?" Leanne almost burst into tears of joy right there in the cell but stopped herself, sensing the danger wasn't over. How could it be? There were too many of them.

"Yes, we need to get out now!" His voice was filled with urgency and Leanne needed no more urging than that. She stepped forward in the dark and took his proffered hand tightly, glad for the warmth radiating from it.

He pulled her out into the corridor, his torch lighting their way as he pulled her behind him, his breathing heavy.

"I brought help, but they won't be able to hold them back for long. We have to get down to the sewers. It's the only way out now," Simon said pulling her into an alcove, and smothering her with his cloak as two armed women ran past, their swords drawn.

They ran and ran, passing the bodies of women and men alike, here and there lay the bloody forms of the wolven she had seen in the marketplace.

She had been so afraid of them. Were they really aiding her rescue?

Perhaps there was hope after all. Hope for the A.I she had worked so hard on. She would work on it but first they had to escape the castle and then...

"In here," Simon whispered crouching low to the ground and pulling up a grate in the ground with a heave. It made a metallic clunk as he pushed it to the side, before lowering himself into the hole, his torch held above him, illuminating the way for Leanne.

It was the sewers under the castle and the stink was overpowering, making Leanne gag.

They really did think of everything didn't they, she thought, as she pulled the grate over her head and back into place before descending the ladder to the murky black water where Simon waited, his hood pulled back.

She stepped down off the ladder and turned to him. They had little time, but she was curious. Hunched over they fled down the small passageway, the light from the torch casting eerie shadows all around them. The twist and turns in the tunnel led them gradually downhill as the sounds from the castle grew more distant. They rounded the final corner and the sudden burst of light from the outside caused them both to stop. Simon threw down the torch and jumped off into the stream. Leanne was only too happy to follow and wash herself free of the foul stench. They lay in the shallows of the water, slowly getting their breath back.

"Simon, how did you know?"

"I saw you in the market, remember?" Simon said, raising his eyebrows, his handsome face, even more handsome in the gaming world.

"But what were you doing in the market?"

"Just a spot of shopping, you know."

"I mean what were you doing in Elipsian, you were supposed to be in the mountains with the dark elves if I remember correctly," Leanne said, feeling cold again, shivering involuntarily.

Simon saw the shiver and wrapped his free arm around her, pulling her into his cloak, against his muscular, warm body and Leanne liked the way it felt.

"I was in the mountains where I saw a raiding party of dark elves leave and I tracked them before they led me to you. I watched your encounter with them in the woods, I'm just sorry I couldn't help you sooner," Simon bowed his head as he gently held her tighter.

Leanne looked up at him. He seemed taller and had he always been this good looking?

Simon took a deep breath and looked up at sky for a moment, before meeting her eyes, just inches from her upturned face.

"I ..." Leanne's lips found his and his words were lost forever as he kissed her back, their mouths coming together, gently at first but then harder as unbridled passion took over.

Leanne moaned, satisfied and pulled away from Simon's lips, a smile on her face.

"I think I should've done that a long time ago, Simon."

He nodded, holding out his hand to glasp hers. They heard the distant cry of the wolven as they retreated from the castle. They needed to leave.

"I'm all the more eager to get back to the real world now," Simon said as he pulled her after him, their destination unknown.

Leanne smiled in the darkness as her savior led her to safety.

Who would have thought it? Simon, of all people. At that moment, Mike was erased from her memory banks forever.

The End of Book 1

# Also Available

Search for 'Nymphania by Jasmin Reed' on your eBook device

Nymphania Book 2: Flies in the Web

A mysterious figure creeps into the palace of the high elves with intentions to steal one of the maps that are hidden in each of the realms of Nymphania.

Meanwhile Leanne and Simon continue to become close and work together to figure out how to escape their virtual gaming world. Leanne knows getting one of the maps is the key in order to find the secret exit door that will help them return to reality.

They head west to the high elves and meet Mike who puts a strain on Leanne and Simon's relationship.

Nymphania Book 3: Dark Maze

Leanne and Simon are held captive in the subterranean caves deep in the mountains below the castle of the dark elves, awaiting their fate with the evil molark that draws ever closer. Will Mike help them or leave them to their certain death?

The wolven are once again enlisted, en-mass, this time by the traitor in DreamReal - setting up a blood pumping vicious finale.

Nymphania: Collected

Parts 1,2 and 3 collected in one omnibus book.

# About the Author

Jasmin Reed is a proud twenty five year old geek girl based in London, England who loves fantasy and sci-fi fiction, comics and movies. She was inspired to write Nymphania, her first series, many years ago but only recently found the time (and courage) to complete and publish the three books in 2014. Her influences range from J.R.R. Tolkien to George R.R. Martin and she very much hopes you enjoy the series.
