 
DEL 1

Susann's POV

I slowly walked towards the yellow, small school bus. It was half past seven in the morning, and the wind went crazy outside. It was the first of December today, not that it was really obvious in any way. Everyone's wishes about waking up to a white December had not been granted, it was still the same, sad weather as before, only a little colder. Today, the air was also filled with gray fog which didn't seem like it wanted to fade away at first sight. As I got closer to the bus, a familiar figure appeared in front of me. I hadn't noticed before, cause I was completely walking around in my own thoughts, until someone shouted at me.

"Susann!" She came almost running towards me as I came to myself. I didn't even get to move before she ran me over. "Malin!" I shouted back after getting up from the shock. Malin was my first and best friend here. Did I mention I moved here only a week ago? No, I didn't think so. Well, I did. At first it came as a shock on me, I didn't want to move at all. At that time it felt like it was the worst thing that possibly could have happened to me, it was like my world just fell even more apart. Like no one was thinking about me at all, or what I wanted....

\----------------

It was November 28 and I remember just getting back from 8 exhausting hours with school. I just wanted to get home as fast as possible and just lie down at my bed, relaxing a few hours as it hadn't been a lot of sleep on me lately. Less than a month earlier, my mom and dad had decided to split up. I guess I should have seen it coming, but I didn't. And now dad had decided he wanted to move to England. ENGLAND!! Why couldn't he just stay closer to home? Not that I spent too much time with him, but I really liked our father – daughter moments, like when we went out every other Friday together.

Another shock came close, as, less than a week ago, my mom told me she was already seeing someone else she had known for a while. At first I got angry at her. Dumping dad for another man, but "unfortunately", her new boyfriend James was really nice, and I didn't manage to be mad at her anymore, cause I realized had sort of already known for a while that her and dad had some issues.

Well, my third shock, maybe the biggest one when I get to think and which caused me to tell you all of this, is that James had asked my mom out on a travel-around-the-world tour with him, lasting "only" a year. I begged her to let me stay at my friend's house, but she completely refused. She told me that this was my chance to spend some "quality time" with my dad, as I was to move over to England to live with him. I was a total disaster to me, all that I had built up of friends and school over the last few years, just thrown away. Well, a week later I stood at the airport, nearly crying (as embarrassed as I am for that) cause I wanted to stay so badly. I had absolutely no friends in England at all, especially not in this small town called Cheshire, which apparently was where I was to live over the next year. I still remember looking back over my shoulders, waving at all my friends who had met me on the airport to say goodbye. Goodbye sweet home, goodbye life and hello miserable new life...

\--------------

Well, you probably now understand that I wasn't too happy about the whole moving-thing. But I'll tell you one thing, things almost never turn out the way you think it will. And neither did this. The minute I stepped on to school ground, someone was there to welcome me. Everyone was really nice, and had heard a lot about me already, as my father had gotten the job as head of the police office in town. As I told you earlier, this was a small town, and the rumor spread faster than fire. From the first day I arrived at this school, to me, there were four girls who particularly stood out to me. These girls where now the four best friends that I could have ever imagined, and the three girls were now standing right in front of me and Malin, greeted us as we got onto the bus. We all sat down after hugging each and other, now heading towards another normal school day, or so I thought..

DEL 2

Susann's POV:

As soon as the bus moved on from the stop, we all busted out talking with each other about out weekends apart, every single detail exposed. This was what I loved about my friends, no one was afraid to tell the others about anything. I didn't really have much to say about my weekend, as I had mostly used it to unpack my belongings from home. I still hadn't gotten used to my new room, even though it was probably twice as big as my last one. I guess living alone with your dad has its benefits.

Suddenly all my friends started laughing out loudly, which woke me up from my own, deep thoughts. As I noticed about every single one on the bus also sat laughing, I pretty much guessed who had come with the funny quote. It was one of my best friends at this school, Alette. She always had the humor, and everyone, especially the boys, absolutely adored her. That reminds me of an important detail I might have forgotten to tell you about, the four people that keep my life running, that always lighten up my day. Of course I'm talking about my four best friends from here. As you may remember, I earlier told you that these girls really stood out to me when I first attended Cheshire High School. I still remember the first moment they came up to me. I remember being terrified of the fact that I was absolutely sure everyone would hate me. Despite the fact that I've only known them for a week, it feels like a lifetime.

The first girl I met while moving to Cheshire was Malin, who you met earlier. She's usually seen as the quiet one, but when you get to know her, she's amazing. She's the best listener and you can tell her everything. You can always go to her for advice. And then there's Alette, there's not a single negative thing you can say about her. Like I told you a little while ago, she's always got the humor going. There's never a dark moment where she can't come with a funny quote and light up your day, and I think the rest of the school agrees. The second friend I met when I first got here was Synne. She lives right next door, and we usually hang out all the time. People who don't know her might say she's a little shy, but that is probably the worst word to describe her personality as soon as you get to know her properly. I don't even know how to describe her myself. On one side, she's the most random person you could ever imagine, but on the other side she's also really emotional. At last there's Fatema, she's the smarty, as everyone calls her. There's not a single thing she doesn't know. You can ask her for everything, although she is personally more interested in poetry and meaning. She always seeks the answers to every situation.

Well, that was a little bit about my friends. I guess I should introduce myself as well. My name is Susann and I'm 17. If my friends were to describe me, they would probably use these three words: independent, smart and girly. I love clothes and makeup, but I also love training. I also like school, compared to most other teens around here. But, the most noticeable thing about me is probably the fact that I always have my own opinions on everything. I usually never get affected by what other people say or think.

I probably could have kept going on for ages about my wonderful friends, but all of sudden a loud voice shouting my name woke me up..

\---------

DEL 3

Susann's POV:

"Susann, are you coming?" I looked up to see Alette staring down at me.

"What?" I looked around me, only to see the bus empty. Alette laughed and dragged me up from my seat.

"Can I ask you what or who you were thinking about?" She looked at me with a curious smile, but she obviously had a second motive.

"Nothing much really," I answered cause I know it would irritate her.

"Fine then! I just noticed you didn't say much during the ride and was just wondering if everything was alright at home," she answered.

"I wasn't thinking about anyone special, if that's what you were wondering about?" I smiled at her and I could see she was then satisfied with my answer. It had only been a week, and I already knew her too well. As we walked off the bus I noticed a slight change in weather. The sun had finally made its way in between the fog, and it almost looked bearable to be 1st of December. I continued forward, only to see Aiden walking towards us. I looked over at Alette, but she only laughed back at me and hurried over to Fatema and the other girls. As I was to follow her, I heard a familiar voice behind my back.

"Hi Susann!" He said and tapped me on my shoulder. I took a deep breath and turned around only to face the one person on this school I tried to stay away from.

"Hello Aiden," I answered in a slightly annoyed voice. I really felt mean talking to him like that, but I was just not in the mood. For those of you who doesn't know who Aiden is, I can tell you that he's the nicest person you can ever imagine, just not when you know he's crazy about you. I think everyone knew about it, and I just didn't have the heart to reject him.

"I'm really sorry, but... uh... I'm late for class." I smiled at him nicely and we said goodbye before I walked over to the girls.

"It's not funny." But they didn't stop laughing. At one point I laughed a little myself before we separated into our different classes.

After two hours with math and two hours with sociology, my least favorite subjects, Synne and I decided we wanted to walk over to the shop near the school area, as it was lunchbreak in only a few minutes and I was really thirsty. Of course the weather had turned on me as it had started raining. As we entered the shop, I was soaking wet. I walked straight over to the cold area to get me something to drink. Suddenly I heard a bunch of screaming girls getting closer and closer to the shop. I looked up with my hands filled with bottles for all of us, and almost managed to get out of the way before a boy with a purple hoodie and white converse ran me over. Before I knew it, I was sitting on the floor just to see every single one of my bottles spread all over the floor. I looked around to see if I could spot the responsible one, only to spot a hand reaching out for me...

DEL 4

Susann's POV

"I am deeply sorry, I didn't see you in the rush, are you ok?" I grabbed the hand and he pulled me up. I turned to face him, only to end up looking into the most gorgeous, green eyes I'd ever seen.

"Are you alright?" He asked me again, as I had gotten completely lost in his eyes the first time. I got to my senses and looked at him. I noticed his curly hair sticking out of his purple Jack Willis hoodie. I looked around on all the bottles lying spread all over the floor, it reminded me of what he had done just a few seconds ago.

"Yes, I'm fine, but no thanks to you," I answered back, maybe a little too rude because a surprised look spread over his face.

"Well, as I said I'm very sorry. I heard the girls outside and..."

"And you thought that was a good excuse to run me over? Who do you think you are anyway?" As if it was even possible, he looked more surprised as I continued talking to him. I realized that I might have taken it all too far, I guess I just wasn't in the best mood today. I took a deep breath before looking at him again.

"I'm sorry for overreacting, I'm just having a bad day I guess..." He laughed a little with the most adorable laugh you could ever imagine.

"It's alright. It's my fault anyway, you had every right to be angry. I'm Harry by the way!"

Harry's POV

"I'm Susann," she said and smiled back at me. She was really beautiful. Not like normal beautiful, there was something extraordinary about her that I just couldn't put my finger on. And what I liked most about her was that she had no idea who I was, and that was a rare occasion. Not that I wanted to brag about my-self, but I didn't really get around much with people not screaming at me. Of course it was exhausting, but our fans are the best. We wouldn't be anywhere without them.

Suddenly, a familiar Irish accent interrupted us.

"Hey, you coming man?" Niall put his blonde haired head out from the backdoor.

"Yeah Niall, I'll be there in a minute." I looked back at her and smiled again. I didn't want to leave her just like that, but I could see the bunch of girls outside getting bigger and bigger.

"Sorry, but I'll have to go. It was great to meet you, and, again, I'm really sorry for running you over." I hurried up and collected all her bottles together before saying goodbye again and leaving. As much as I wanted to see her again, I was pretty sure it would never happen. As I walked through the back door, I suddenly changed my mind, but as I turned around, she was already gone...

DEL 5

Susann's POV

I thanked Harry for helping me collecting up the mess and he quickly said goodbye. As I did not want to mess up again by losing all the bottles, which would be so typical me, I rushed back to Synne. As much as I wanted to stay talk to him and get to know him, when I went back, he was already gone. I guess I got a little disappointed, he probably didn't look at me different than any other girl he'd met. I shook my head and went over to Synne who was waiting at the checkout. When she saw me coming she instantly went over.

"Hey, what took you so long? I've been waiting here for like hours!"

"Nothing, I just bumped into someone... literally." As soon as I mentioned "someone" she was all over me asking about who it was.

"Was it someone I know? Was it someone from school? Was it a BOY?!?!" I laughed a little before answering her.

"Yes, it was a boy, and no, I do not know who he was. I don't think I've seen him around here before."

"Hmm.. Susann's got a boyfriend!!"

"WHAT? No, I haven't, we were just talking!"

"See, you're blushing!" She laughed out loud at my reaction and everyone else around us looked at us. I got even more embarrassed and hurried out of the shop. It had stopped raining as we walked back to the school area.

When we entered the huge canteen, everybody was freaking out for no particularly reason, or so it seemed to me. We found the other girls sitting around one of the small tables talking non-stop.

"Malin, what's going on here? Everybody's totally out of their minds!" I looked at Synne, but it didn't seem like she knew more than I did.

"Haven't you heard??!!" Malin nearly screamed back at us.

"Hey, calm down. We wore at the shop getting something to drink."

"OMG, I just can't believe it!!!!" Fatema screamed.

"Me neither, and I can't believe we missed it!" Alette added.

"Can someone please tell me what's going on here?!" I nearly shouted because of the loud volume in the canteen at the moment.

"ONE DIRECTION WAS HERE!!!!" Fatema screamed even louder, and, if possible, everyone just got even more excited.

"Who?" I asked curiously. Everyone looked at me and their faces dropped.

"Who? You've got to be kidding me? They're only like THE BIGGEST boy band in the entire UK," Fatema continued.

"Please don't tell me you haven't heard of them before?" As I thought back I remembered one of the girls, probably Fatema, mentioning them earlier this morning. But I had no idea who they were. I shook my head and got some very disappointed looks back at me.

Suddenly someone's phone rang, it was Fatema's.

"Hello?" Fatema answered. Suddenly, the biggest smile I've ever seen formed in her face as she nearly fell of the chair...

DEL 6

Susann's POV

"Hello?" Fatema answered. Suddenly, the biggest smile I've ever seen formed in her face as she nearly fell of the chair...

We were all quiet just looking at Fatema, everyone was wondering what the phone call was about. She seemed too excited for it to be only a normal call, and everyone gathered around her. Suddenly she began screaming again, and started jumping around the table.

"Really?! Really?!?! Are you kidding with me? Is this a joke? OMG!!!!!" Fatema continued talking on the phone which only got us even more interested. When she finally finished, everyone bombarded her with questions. At first, she became all quiet before suddenly shouting out loud..

"I won, I won!!!! I can't believe it!!"

"Wait, are you kidding me?! Are you serious?" Malin shouted.

"OMG you've got to be joking! Is this for real?" Alette and the other girls continued, without me understanding anything at all.

"What is it now?" I started to get a little annoyed, no one seemed to be able to do anything except jumping around. When they finally calmed down, Fatema slowly told me the entire story.

"About a month ago I entered this competition where you can win 5 tickets to see One Direction on a concert + meeting them in London. And I just got a phone call telling me I won!!"

"Seriously, how good are these One Direction boys anyway?" Suddenly I got four evil looks tearing me down.

"They're beyond amazing!" Alette said and the other girls agreed instantly and started talking about how gorgeous and wonderful they all were.

"But, who are you taking with you to the concert then?" I asked, still a little confused.

"Who do you think silly? You guys of course!" Fatema said back with a huge smile.

"But I don't even know who they are!"

"Well, we've got to fix that. And trust me, you will be amazed beyond everything you could ever imagine!"

"I'd doubt that." The girls just laughed at me. I mean, they were just five random boys that, I guess, could sing alright?

"Are you guys free this weekend?" Everyone nodded while looking curiously back at me.

"Why? What did you have in mind?"

"Well, I thought since you were all going to "amaze" me with One Direction and all, I thought me might have a sleepover at my house on Friday?"

"Yes, that's an amazayn idea!" Synne added, while everyone started planning everything into every small detail. As for me, I wasn't too excited for the One Direction part, but the sleepover were going to be great...

DEL 7

Susann's POV:

"We will now begin on our way down, thank you for flying with Norwegian and we hope you enjoyed your flight," the speaker announced as the plane slowly made its way down to the airport. I could feel the tears streaming down my cheek as I thought about the last week. When I'd gotten home from school last Thursday, I had received a phone call from my mum who had to delay her "trip around the world". My grandmother had gotten very sick, not exactly sure what it was, but it was serious. I had left on the first plane back to Norway to see her, but only three days later she passed away. My grandmother and I were really close, so it hurt me to not be able to spend any more time with her before it all happened. The funeral was on Tuesday, and I spent Wednesday with my mother but we didn't really say much to each other, we were both too broken inside. On Thursday, I decided I wanted to visit my two best friends again, they had heard about what happened and tried to help me feel a little better. I then realized how much I had missed not having them around the last weeks..

And now I was on my way back to Cheshire to my sleepover party which had been moved to today, Friday 9th December. I was really excited about it, cause it was my first official "get together" with the girls. They also seemed over excited about the One Direction thing. I had mentioned it to my friends at home as well, and surprisingly they had also gone mental when I mentioned them, apparently I was missing out big time. Well, I guess that will show tonight, as it probably would be all about One Direction all night. The belt-sign went off and I stood up to get my bag. I walked off the plane and continued into the luggage pick-up inside the airport. It wasn't really that many people on my plane, so I had no problems finding a spot to wait on my luggage. The band slowly started rolling and I looked over at some people playing on it. They looked like teenagers, but didn't really act like it as they were playing on the luggage-band while waiting. Suddenly I spotted my luggage coming out nearly first, and as it came closer I leant over to get it, but suddenly someone lifted it up and placed it beside me.

"I'm guessing this is yours?" I turned around to see a slightly familiar face looking down at me...

DEL 8

"Well, hello again," I said looking up at the same boy that had knocked me over at the shop the other day. This time he wore a blue Jack Willis shirt and black pants, possibly looking even better than the first time we met.

"Hello to you too," he smiled back at me and I noticed his dimples, didn't even know a guy could make me feel like that by only smiling. I collected my thoughts, felt a little embarrassed, like I've met this guy once and I already like him A LOT.

"So, what brings you to the airport on a schoolday?" I looked down and tears started forming in my eyes. Why did this happen now, and in front of him of all people!

"Hey, what is it? Did I say anything wrong?" He came closer, put his arm around me and looked at me with a slightly confused look.

"No, it's not your fault. It's.... it's my grandmother.... she got sick and... and..." I busted out in tears and he took me closer and into his arms. On one side I felt extremely embarrassed cause I was standing in the middle of a public airport crying my eyes out in the arms of an amazing boy that I didn't even know, but on the other hand it felt strangely right. Like it was meant to be like this, unfortunately I was probably the only one feeling this way. And it wasn't like I could just tell him, we had only met for God's sake. Why did I always have to fall so fast in love with guys whom I could not have..?

I got out of his arms after my embarrassing crying session and looked up at him.

"I'm so sorry, I had no idea..." He looked at me with sadness in his eyes, it nearly killed me.

"It's alright, you didn't know..." As he was about to say something, another boy suddenly jumped up on his back. Harry nearly fell over by the boy in a striped shirt and a blue pair of toms.

"Hey Louis, what are you doing?! You want me to hit you with a carrot or what? Can't you see I'm in the middle of a conversation here?"

The boy, whose name obviously was Louis, whispered something into Harry's ear and they both nodded, Harry looking slightly disappointed.

"I'm deeply sorry, but I'm gonna have to leave, something has come up. But it was really nice to meet you again, and I am very sorry about you grandmother..."

"Well, it was nice to see you managing to talk to me without running me over." We both laughed as I grabbed my bag and headed for the exit. Surprisingly he went another way through the huge crowd of people, still with Louis on his back. I laughed a little to myself and went outside to find my dad waiting in the car.

\-----------

The clock was almost six, but still none of the girls had showed up. I was dressed up in a red, short dress with black heals and makeup on. I literally ran around the house to make sure that everything was fixed and ready for the party. I had literally pushed my dad out the door earlier this evening to make sure he didn't come with any major embarrassing and "funny" comments during our sleepover. Suddenly I heard someone knock on the door and I ran out and opened the door to see all my friends standing there on my doorstep. They all gave me a hug and said how sorry they wore for my gran. I thanked them all for coming tonight, and looked at their bags, I suspected they were all filled up with One Direction stuff. I walked out in the kitchen to prepare the food, we were having tacos. Ten minutes later I walked back into the living room and was met with the biggest surprise...

DEL 9

I walked out in the kitchen to prepare the food, we were having tacos. Ten minutes later I walked back into the living room and was met with the biggest surprise...

As I entered the room, the music started playing on full and the room was basically remade to a "One Direction (I suspected)" paradise. They were all jumping around and singing along to a song I surprisingly found very catchy. As I looked over on the walls, this huge poster was taped up on the wall, and that was when the real shock arrived, cause in the middle of the group made up by five boys was Harry. This could not be real, it must be someone who looks extremely like him, but I got more and more uncertain as I watched all the other posters as well. But, I couldn't be... I mean, why would he then talk to someone like me? I concluded with the fact that it had to be someone else, but deep inside I knew it was him.

"Baby you light up my world like nobody else, the way that you flip your hair gets me overwhelmed, but when you smile at the ground it ain't hard to tell..." Suddenly the girls noticed that I had entered the room and came towards me.

"Susann?... Susann?"

"What? Sorry, I was thinking about something else.."

"What?" What was I going to tell them? That I had just randomly met Harry in the shop the other day, and cried my eyes out in his arms earlier today? It would be too strange to just admit it out of the blue like this. But, they wore my best friends and I couldn't keep it a secret to them...

"So, what do you think? Aren't they just amazing?" Alette almost looked like she was going to faint just by admiring the poster.

"And gorgeous!" Malin added.

"And their music is just ... indescribable!"

"I mean, think about how amazayn it would be to actually meet them, I mean... I would probably faint!" The others nodded, and they probably could have continued on for ages, but then I stopped them and got everyone's attention pointed towards me.

"Look, I need to tell you something.."

DEL 10

Susann's POV

I looked at the girls while preparing to tell them everything about me and Harry, well, all there actually was to tell anyway.

"Well, you know that day when everyone told each other that One Direction had been in town last week?" They all nodded, didn't really understand what I was trying to tell them.

"Yes, and?"

"Well, Synne and I wore at the shop when they arrived and I sort of... bumped into Harry while buying our drinks." All of them looked at me with huge eyes, especially Synne. She had been in the shop with me as well and obviously not seen any of the boys.

"You've got to be joking!" The girls surprisingly busted out in laughter.

"Like you actually met THE Harry Styles in the shop, no freaking way! I was there with you, remember? And I think I would have noticed if they came in."

"But, it's true, Niall was there as well!" The girls just looked at me even weirder and continued laughing. I could see there was no point in trying any more, they would obviously never believe me. I mean, I could tell them that we'd met at the airport as well, but I guess it wouldn't make any difference. Suddenly a thought entered my mind. What if the girls told everything to the boys when we were to meet them after that concert, and what if none of them remembered me? What if Harry didn't even remember me?

Alette's POV

All of us continued laughing of Susann's poor attempt on tricking us into believing that she had actually met One Direction without even knowing who they wore. Of course she had to be joking, I mean... come on! It was just too surreal. Even Synne didn't see them, and she was in the shop as well together with Susann. There was just no way it could have happened.

"Well, if you are all going to be like that, we might as well just move on and get something to eat."

Susann said while looked at us with a serious look. What if she had actually meant what she had said about meeting him?

"Alright, I'm starving! Maybe you should call Harry over and ask him to bring Niall!" Fatema said and we all busted out laughing again. Of course every true directioner knew that Niall loved food, and when I say that I mean really loves food, more than anything.

"If you are going to be like that all night, I'll maybe refuse to even listen to their "amazing" music." We all shut up instantly.

"Hmm, fine. But when you've first listened to it, I assure you that you will never regret a thing!" Malin said and we all went over to the dinner table. We were having tacos, my favorite. Fatema turned up the music before we sat down.

Malin's POV

After about half an hour, we were all finished eating and just sat there talking about One Direction. I noticed that Susann also looked like she really enjoyed their music, who wouldn't?

"So, what do you think of One Direction so far, Susann?"

"Well... I guess I'll have to admit they're pretty good."

"Pretty good??"

"Fine, they're really good!" We all cheered together, and even Susann had to smile over our silly fangirling.

"I can't wait to the concert next Wednesday, it's going to be amazayn!!" Synne exclaimed.

"I know, and we are actually going to meet them!! I can't believe this is actually happening," Malin added. We all started chatting about how great it was going to be when Alette's phone suddenly rang.

"I'm sorry but I'll have to take this, it's mom. I'm wondering what it is that is so important that she'll have to call me in the middle of a party." She looked a little annoyed, but picked up the phone while walking out of the room. I continued talking with Susann about the concert and how much fun it was going to be. Even she looked like she was excited to meet them. Suddenly we were interrupted by Alette shouting extremely loudly from the hallway.

"YOU CAN NOT BE SERIOUS ABOUT THIS?!?!" We all looked at each other and quickly went out to see what was going on...

DEL 11

"YOU CAN NOT BE SERIOUS ABOUT THIS?!?!" We all looked at each other and quickly went out to see what was going on...

Alette's POV

I was in complete anger at my mom, how could she?! She knew how much this meant to me, and now she decided to do this! And the worst thing is that it didn't only affect me, I started thinking about how I was going to tell Malin the news. And if you didn't know, Malin and I are cousins and our families practically do everything together, and I mean everything. Not that it usually is a bad thing cause I love hanging out with her although we've got our differences.

"But why do we have to come with?" I practically shouted to her trough the phone, and I could see the other girls hurried out to see what was going on.

"I'm sorry but that's just the way it is. There is nothing to argue about." How could she be so calm about this, she had just destroyed the biggest chance for both me and Malin. I hung up on my mom and wondered how I was supposed to tell Malin about the news.

Malin's POV

As we gathered around Alette wondering what was going on, she hung up on the phone and looked back at all of us. Then it only turned to me, and by the look on her face it wasn't something positive that was going to be told.

"What is it? We heard to scream all the way into the kitchen!" Fatema said frightened.

"Yes, what's wrong?" I asked curiously, as I was 100% sure it had something to do with me as well.

"You are not going to believe what mom just told me! I mean, it's just the worst thing that could happen."

"Then what is it??" The tension built up as she began to speak about what her mom had just told her. As she finished talking, I just stood there not knowing what to say. I could not believe they would plan this now, even after I told my mom how much all of this meant to me.

"Did you talk to her about the concert?"

"Yes, I nearly begged on my knees but she refused to change her mind."

"I can not believe this! How the hell could they plan a freakin skiing vacation on the exact week of the concert? This was a once in a life time opportunity, and we're travelling away on a freaking skitrip!! I had to change her mind... NOW!

"I'm calling mum!!"

I ran back to find my phone and dialed the number to my mom. As soon as I heard her pick it up in the other end I practically screamed to her;

"How can you do this to me?!!!"

DEL 12

Det er onsdag morgen. Susann sitter i bilen på vei til flyplassen for å møte venninnene sine fra Norge. Hun forteller tilbake i fortid om Malin og Alette som måtte dra på hyttetur, og de dro i går (mandag). Fatema hadde derfor ingen andre å ta med siden vi var liksom hennes bestevenner. Derfor spurte jeg om jeg kanskje kunne ta med mine venninner fra Norge, hun syns det var en fantastisk ide. Susann ringte til vennene (Anastasija og Elise) og spurte om de ville ta en tur innom London i jula. Etter mye "krangling og diskutering" med foreldrene, fikk de lov og de hadde snakket mye om det på telefon. Fatema og Alette hadde også vært veldig spente. Tilbake i nåtid så møter hun de på flyplassen. Løper mot dem og roper "Anastasija og Elise".

Susann's POV

I looked out the car window as the landscape flew by. It was so beautiful here outside London, huge fields reaching out in the distance and small lakes in-between. Even though it was nearly in the middle of December, the snow had unfortunately not arrived yet. I sort of missed Norway in that part cause it used to be snow all December there. I remembered all the snowball fights me and my friends used to have, I really hope the snow will arrive soon. I turned to my dad, who was driving the car today, to ask how far away we wore. "We'll be there in twenty minutes," he answered back. I turned back to my thoughts again, happy that we weren't far away, I always got carsick when we drove to far.

It was Tuesday 13 December today, tomorrow was the One Direction concert and I had just gotten more and more excited through the last few days. I nearly felt like a part of the "One Direction Family" already, cause the girls had showed me every single interview and played every one of their songs and performances at least twice these last days. I had to admit it, I never thought I'd actually like them this much. Although they were all amazing, it was something about Harry that really amazed me. His personality just shined through him, and his eyes were just gorgeous. I know some of the other girls felt the exact same way, they also had their favorites. Fatema absolutely adored Zayn, I can't really blame her. They seemed to fit perfect for each other. And then there were Synne who liked Louis, and I really get why, they were like two drops of water. They both had the same awkward, but still hilarious humor.

As I sat in the car I thought back on last Friday's events. The big shock came when Alette received the call from her mom telling her that her family had planned a ski-vacation with Malin's family through the rest of December. No matter how hard they tried to convince their parents to let them stay here, but there was no way out of it. When they left yesterday, we all promised them we'd say hello from the boys, but I could still see they were hugely disappointed to miss this chance. I know both me and the girl really wanted them to be here, but when they had to pull out of it, we still had two tickets left. Then I suddenly got up with the idea that I could invite my two best friends from Norway to come down and celebrate Christmas with us and come to the concert. I was a little nervous that Fatema might think it was a bad idea, I mean, it was her tickets and she didn't even know my friends. But when I mentioned it she agreed instantly. It was therefore decided that they would come down Tuesday, and finally the day had arrived. It had been a hard time convincing their parents to let them stay with us, but we had finally come to an agreement. They were really excited as well, and the best part? I hadn't even told them about the concert, it was my Christmas present to them and I had a slightly idea they would love it!

"Are we there soon?" I started getting impatient, and to be honest, a little sick.

"Yes, it's just around the corner." As I looked up in the sky I could see an airplane saying "Norwegian" getting closer and closer to the ground before it disappeared behind all the trees.

We drove into the parking lot and I ran to the main entrance and over to the place where they would come out as soon as they had gotten their luggage. I bumped into a few people on the way, and as I got to the entrance I could see two familiar faces in-between the crowdy amount of people walking through the corridor. They spotted me and started running towards me and I ran towards them while shouting their names. I didn't care who heard it, I was just so happy to see them again...

DEL 13

Anastasija's POV

As we walked out of the luggage check-in, I spotted Susann standing in the crowd. We started running towards her, that exited wore we about this vacation. I hadn't seen her in weeks, and now we were spending Christmas holiday together, how much better could it possibly get?

"Anastasija!! Elise!!" Susann shouted as she came towards us. We all met in a group hug, shouting and talking loudly which probably caused a lot of attention. But who cared, we were all together again. The three best friends!

Susann's POV

As we got together and started walking towards the car, Elise and Anastasija began describing and talking about every single small detail and happenings that had occurred while I was gone. As we reached the car that was parked right outside the entrance, we all decided to sit in the back of the car, my dad had this huge van so we could all fit together easily. It felt really good just hanging out with them again, it had felt like a small part of me was missing. This was going to be the best Christmas ever! And the best part? I hadn't even told them about the biggest surprise yet, the fact that they were actually, not only going to attend a One Direction concert, but meet them afterwards aswell. I was actually a bit worried honestly, I mean, what if none of the remembered me at all? What if he didn't remember me?

"So how is it to live here in England? I mean, it must be a dream come true?" I laughed a little, it wasn't exactly how I saw it but I know Anastasija had always wanted to study in England and was a bit jealous of me.

"It's great! At first I didn't really think I was going to make it at all. New town, new friends, new language, you name it... But now that I've been here for a few weeks, it's amazing!"

"How's your new friends then?" Elise asked me curiously, and Anastasija added "Are they cooler than us?" We all laughed together, I knew that I had really missed these times.

"Of course not, no-one can beat your swag!"

"I knew it!" She said with a quite satisfying smile. Elise looked at me and asked me again about my friends, whom I had already forgotten to answer.

"Well, they're really cool. They're actually not too different from you guys."

"Really? Tell!"

"Well, we've got Synne, who's pretty much like you Anastasija. She loves to joke around and have a laugh all the time, but is also quite emotional at times. And then there's Fatema who is quite similar to Elise, you both love to have a joke, but you also like a challenge. She's a real smarty, just like you." I got a serious look back, she hated me when I called her smarty, but I knew she didn't really care cause I'd always called her that. All the way from sixth grade when she first started on our school.

"And there is also Malin and Alette, but you probably won't meet them while you're here, as they're on a skiing vacation!"

"Cool! Then, what have you planned for the next days? Shopping?" Anastasija looked at me with a hopeful face, she absolutely adores shopping and fashion, and I couldn't blame her. I loved it as well, and especially her in London with all my favorite stores.

"Well, I guess we've got some time for shopping!" A huge grin spread on her face, I could see she was really excited. She had probably promised to do all the Christmas shopping here.

"Have you met One Direction?!" Elise suddenly busted out. Anastasija looked curiously at me as well.

"I mean, you're in England, right?"

"Oh, wait! That reminded me of the big surprise I told you about one the phone!"

"Omg, I had totally forgot. What is it? Did you win in lotto or something?"

"Haha, I wish. But no, there's something even better." I smiled which got them even more curious.

"Just tell us! Please!!"

"Well, you see my friend Fatema entered this competition where we could win 5 tickets to see One Direction in a concert + meet them backstage. And guess what!?"

DEL 14

"Well, you see my friend Fatema entered this competition where we could win 5 tickets to see One Direction in a concert + meet them backstage. And guess what!?"

Susann's POV

They looked at me in excitement as I was to tell them the biggest surprise they could ever imagine.

"Well.... She won! And guess who I got to take with me to the concert and the meeting?"

"OMG!!! No freaking way?? Don't tell me you're joking, it's not funny!" Elise exclaimed.

"It's true! My two other friends who was supposed to come with us, is on vacation and I got asked to bring you."

"Omg, I can't believe this. It's amazing! We're actually going to meet One Direction!"

All the way home from the airport, we sat in the back seat discussing the concert that was tomorrow. I think my dad got kind of crazy over our constant screaming, but he just laughed of us. After I had gotten knowledge of One Direction he had gotten pretty much used to my constant talking about them.

As we arrived at home, we took all our stuff into my room as I had put up two extra matrasses for them to sleep on. We sat up to midnight discussing One Direction, we decided we had to go to bed not too late, as we were taking the train into London early next morning. I had taken myself free from school the rest of the year (it was only five days left anyway), but Fatema and Synne had to be at school so they would be joining us later that day.

Elise's POV

We go up at 9 am next morning to get dressed and pack up our money for the trip into London. We decided to eat breakfast in London, and we took the train into London at 10 am. The travel took about 3 hours, and during the trip, we decided to drop in to Milkshake City first, and then go get some breakfast. We were all really hungry as we hadn't eaten all day. We arrived in London around 1 pm, the concert was apparently not starting until 6 pm, so we had four hours to hang out in London as we had to meet up one hour before the concert.

"So, where are we going?"

"Can't we go by topshop?" Anastasija proposed. It was her favorite shop and I quite liked it as well, so we decided to go by. After almost an hour in the shop, we all bought some clothes, and also went by Jack Willis which was nearby. When we finished all the shopping, the clock was already 3.30.

"When are we meeting up with your friends?" I asked and looked over at Susann.

"We're meeting Synne and Fatema on this Starbucks shop in an hour. Where do you guys want to go next?"

"Mooore shopping!" Anastasija exclaimed cheerfully.

"Noo, please.. Everything but shopping," I answered back.

"Hmf... fine."

"What about taking a sightseeing trip around in London then? Should take about an hour!"

"Yes, that sounds like a great idea! Right Anastasija?" I looked at and laughed.

"Fine, I guess I have to agree it sound like a good idea. I probably doesn't have much more money left anyway."

Susann's POV

After we had gone on a sightseeing spree around London, we met up with Fatema and Synne on Starbucks. Luckily they went great together with my friends, and we had a good laugh all the way to the venue. As we reached the venue around five o'clock, there was already a long queue. I was lucky we had seats with numbers on, we wore on row 5, right next to the stage.

In the queue we met five other girls who came all the way from France just to see them. We talked for more than half an hour, while standing in the queue. I got really good friends with two of them, Eirin and Frøya. They were really nice and had just recently gotten knowledge about One Direction, and just like me they had instantly fallen in love with them. There were also three other girls whom mostly talked with Synne, Fatema, Anastasija and Elise. Their names was Hannah, Marie and Karianne. They were all really nice, and Hannah and Marie had actually met the boys before aswell, on a book signing earlier this year. I wanted to tell them that I had met Harry aswell, but let it be. Just before the concert was going to start, we separated, as they were really lucky and had seats on the first row.

Suddenly the music started playing and every single girl in the venue began screaming. After a few seconds, the boys jumped out on stage. The looked incredible, especially Harry. They opened the concert my singing One thing, continued by Moments which was one of my favorite songs by them.  
"How are you all doing to night?" Harry shouted out to the audience, and he got a screaming response.

"Well, this next song I want to dedicate to a girl I met the other day!" For some weird reason, I felt like he was looking at me when he said it. But of course he wasn't, he didn't even know I was here. And he'd probably met hundreds of girls the last week. I threw the thought away as they began to sing What makes you beautiful which was my absolute favorite song on the album. Suddenly someone tapped me on my back. I turned around to see one of the security guards standing behind me.  
"Would you please follow after me?"

"What? But..."

He waved me over and I had no option but to follow him. What was happening? What had I done now?

DEL 15

Suddenly someone tapped me on my back. I turned around to see one of the security guards standing behind me.

"Would you please follow after me?"

"What? But..."

He waved me over and I had no option but to follow him. What was happening? What had I done now?

Susann's POV

As i followed the security guard, none of my friends seemed to notice. They were too busy shouting and screaming over One Direction. The guard grabbed my arm as I was just standing there in full confusion. Suddenly I heard the boys beginning on the what makes you beautiful chorus for the second time in the song, and of course everyone knew what part would be next. Suddenly the guard turned me around and I found myself standing next to the stage. I looked confused around me as I slightly realized what might be happening. Suddenly someone grabbed my hand, and I found myself looking into Harry Styles' beautiful green eyes yet again. He followed me up on stage and I finally got to myself again, standing in the middle of the stage in front of more than 10 000 people. I suddenly felt terrified, but then I looked back into Harry's eyes as he began to sing the most beautiful lines I had ever heard..

"Baby you light up my world like nobody else, the way that you flip your hair gets me overwhelmed, but when you smile at the ground it ain't hard to tell...."

I nearly fainted while standing there, it was to be the most amazing moment of my life. Suddenly the song was over, and I heard standing applause, of course, as the boys finished by shouting random stuff out to the fans. Harry followed me off stage again, and seemingly tried to communicate with me, but at soon as we got off stage, our hand got separated and he was pushed back up there. I found my way back to the girls and they were screaming and shouting at me so loudly I couldn't even here they boys' voices anymore.

"OMG, you were just on stage with Harry Styles!" Fatema shouted.

"I can't believe it, you're soo lucky!" Anastasija added as the almost ran me over.

"How was it?! Tell me! How was it?" Elise and Synne begged me.

"I'll do it later, after the concert," I nearly had to scream myself to prevent my voice from drowning in the music.

We continued enjoying the concert as the boys played More than this, I want, Up all night, Everything about you, Another world and surprisingly they ended the concert singing Forever young to everyone's excitement.

After the concert, we found our way back to the security guard that had grabbed my arm earlier, and showed him the backstage passes. He directed us the right way, and before we knew it, we were standing in a room with seven other girls whom had also won a meet up with the boys. As we came in last, we obviously were to meet the boys last as well. I noticed some of the girls were a little younger than us, as well as some of them were around our age.

It was finally announced that the boys would be in the room in about twenty minutes, after doing some important backstage filming. We all sat down to wait, and I got to know all the girls a little better as we began to discuss One Direction. There were Amalie, Tonje, Elisabeth and Marita from Wolverhampton, they had won their tickets through a radio contest. I got in really good touch with Marita as we sat down talking about literally everything. I found out she was originally from Norway as well, so we pretty much communicated in our own language. Then it was Zara, Sandra and Bea who came all the way from Ireland. They had gotten their tickets from the same radio contest as Fatema, and I could see especially Bea and Fatema had a really good connection. As the guards announced that One Direction would be here in three minutes, me and Marita quickly exchanged numbers, and suddenly the management came into the room and called on Amalie, Tonje, Elisabeth and Marita. We said goodbye, as we probably wouldn't meet again right after the meeting with the boys. And then it was Zara, Sandra and Bea's turn.

After fifteen more minutes, it was nearly our turn. I could feel myself getting all nervous about meeting them, although I didn't quite understand why. I mean, I had met most of them before anyway.

"The rest of you can now enter to meet the boys," one of the men suddenly said. I looked nervously over at the girls, but they just seemed over exited and I didn't really get any sensible contact with them.

Anastasija's POV

As the guard announced it was our turn to see the boys, I started to get all fanatic. What would I say? What if I just totally blacked out? I tried to throw the thoughts away and looked over at Susann. She looked even more nervous than me, but it looked different in a way. I just couldn't out my finger on it. Suddenly, a huge black door opened in front of us and we stepped inside. The first thing that caught my eye, was five indescribable gorgeous boys looking straight at us as we walked further into the room...

DEL 16

Suddenly, a huge black door opened in front of us and we stepped inside. The first thing that caught my eye, was five indescribable gorgeous boys looking straight at us as we walked further into the room...

Susann's POV

We walked into the room and were greeted with a huge smile from the boys. I caught Harry's eyes as his met mine. He looked relay surprised about seeing me, but then put on his cheeky smile. Harry instantly walked over to me, and I think the girls and boys looked a little curious over at us, until Niall exclaimed..

"Hey, you're Susann right? I remember you from the shop!"

"Yes, you remembered my name?!" I looked surprised over at him. I would have never thought they'd actually remember my name, as I had only met them in a few minutes.

"Of course, Harry talks about you all the time!" He said with the cheekiest smile. Harry looked over at him with a killer-look and the boys started laughing. I could see Harry getting a little red, as the boys kept embarrassing him.

"Have you two met before?!" Anastasija wondered as she looked pretty shocked, just like the other girls.

"Yes, we've met twice. I told the girls, but they didn't believe me.." Synne and Fatema looked at each other before getting a little embarrassed.

"Well, how are you? I tried to talk to you when we went off stage earlier, but I didn't get the chance. You have no idea how great it is to see you backstage!"

"I'm good! And I guess I can thank Fatema for that, she was the one who won the tickets." I looked around to see the girls chatting with the other boys. It pretty much looked like they'd all found their favorite, and I can't say their "matches" came as a big surprise. Synne was standing in the other end of the room talking to Louis, suddenly they both busted out in laughter and everyone in the room turned to them, but they just looked weird back at us and continued their conversation. And then it was Zayn and Fatema who was sitting in the couch across Niall and Elise. Right beside us was Anastasija and Liam. We all had such a great time getting to know the boys, and the time flew faster than we could imagine.

"So, what did you think of the concert then?" Harry asked me during our conversation. We had gotten better friends in just less than the ten minutes that had gone since we came in. He was just amazing, his personality, his looks, the way he acted when he was around fans..

"It was amazing!"

"And what did you think of my solo then?" He chuckled lightly. My heart started beating faster as he kept moving in closer and closer.

"It was beautiful," it wasn't anything else to say that could describe how I felt when he sung it to me. But I didn't want to sound like a crazy fangirl either, so I kept it like that.

"So you didn't think it sounded false?"

"What, are you joking with me?! It was the most beautiful thing I've ever heard," I suddenly said without thinking, and instantly stopped talking. I could feel myself getting more and more red. I guess that comment impressed him a lot, but he just started laughing calmly.

"I really like you, you know that?" My heart started beating faster as he said that, but I didn't want to embarrass myself again, and continued acting like what he said hadn't just nearly killed me.

"What? Why? There's nothing much to like about me .. I mean, you probably say that to all your fans.." I looked away but he grabbed my hand which forced me to look at him again.

"No, I don't. Not like that. I mean, I really like you. There's just something different about you but I just can't figure out why. I just... really like you." He didn't look embarrassed at all when he said that, which made me believe even more that he actually meant what he said.

"Visit is over guys, it's time to go! Oh, and your friends and family just arrived in the greenroom area," a man entered the room and interrupted us.

"Can't we stay a little longer?" Louis looked over at the man who was talking, I guessed it was their management.

"No, I'm sorry but the meeting is over," he said and walked out of the room.

"I guess I have to go then," I looked over at him a little disappointed that the meeting was already over.

"Wait! Are you staying in London tonight?"

"Yes, it's too far to travel home now, so we're staying at this hotel around Oxford Street."

"Good. Well, um... I was wondering if you and the rest of the girls might want to go out tonight, we're thinking of going to Nandos to get some food and then head over to our apartment."

"Um, sure. I guess .. if you've got time? Aren't your family here tonight?"

"Yes, but they're with us on the rest of the tour as well. You, I might only be able to see tonight." I smiled at Harry, and before I got to give him my final answer, he went over to talk to the other boys. He said something to them which I didn't hear and then they all nodded.

"That's a wonderful idea babe!" Louis nearly shouted and gave Harry a hug.

"What's so wonderful?" Elise asked back as she looked at us for answers.

"We were wondering if you might want to hang out with us tonight? We're heading over to Nandos after talking to our family and the crew. You wanna come?" We looked at each other, and the girls seemed too excited.

"Of course we'll come!" Anastasija said as she headed over towards Liam again.

The boys waved us over and we all walked out of the room and in to what I believed was some sort of "backstage green-room". When we entered the room, I spotted about thirty to forty other people already in the room. Harry instantly walked over towards his mom, whom I recognized from pictures I had seen. She was really beautiful, I could see where Harry got that from. Beside her was Gemma, his big sister, and then there was another girl whom I didn't recognize. Harry gave her a big hug and a kiss on the cheek. I could already feel myself getting a little jealous, although I'd only talked to Harry for less than half an hour.

"Hey everyone, this is Susann!" Harry brought me over to shortly meet them.

"Susann, this is my mom Anne, my sister Gemma and my best friend from home Cathrine." They all smiled and welcomed me, although Cathrine gave me a slightly uncertain look, like she didn't trust me or something. I tried to forget about it, but for some reason I just couldn't. As Harry continued chatting with them and telling them how we first met, I surprisingly got a really good connection with Gemma as well. She was the sweetest person ever, and we talked literarily about everything. She started talking about Harry as a little kid, when he broke in and interrupted us. Through the conversation, Cathrine had basically been really quiet, although she had come with a few comments while talking to Harry. As Gemma suddenly got a phonecall, I walked over to Anastasija and Liam, to give Harry some space. By the second I left, Cathrine seemed to get out of her "shell". She laughed, talked and joked around with Harry. I was positive she didn't like me at all, I just couldn't figure out why...

DEL 17

Synne's POV

After spending about half an hour with Louis' family, having a nice chat with his mom, whom was extremely nice, fangirling over the fact that we were actually heading out to Nandos with the boys and the concert, I went over to Susann who looked a little alone as she was standing in the corner of the room.

"Hey, what are you doing alone? I thought you would stick with Harry all evening." I looked over to her, but she didn't seem too "awake" if I could call it that. She kept looking over in Harry's direction and I spotted a girl with long, red hair hanging with Harry.

"Who's that?" I asked Susann and pointed over at the girl.

"Oh, that's Catherine, she's one of Harry's best friends from before they got famous." She looked back at me again.

"Then why aren't you over there with her and Harry?"

"I thought I'd give them some space, they probably like haven't seen each other in a long time," she answered and kept looking back at them. They were laughing and seemed to have a really good time together.

"I know you, and therefore I know that's not the case! You can trust me, tell me what's wrong."

"Well, it's probably nothing to worry about, but I don't think Catherine likes me.."

"What?! Is that what you're worried about?" I looked at her, and unfortunately it seemed like I had guessed right. But she seriously shouldn't care about her opinion, I mean... who does she think she is?

"She's one of Harry's best friends, of course I want her to like me aswell!"

"Of course she will, just give her some time. Everyone who meets you will adore you, seriously. We just met a few weeks ago and I feel like we've known each other for years already!" I hadn't really thought of it like that earlier, but now I couldn't really imagine not knowing her. Everyone who got to know her would find her amazing, she was just that kind of person that everyone loved.

"Now walk over there!" I literarily pushed her over and went back to Louis who was now talking to Stan, one of his closest friends. We had gotten a really good connection already, and he was even funnier in reality!

Susann's POV

I walked back over to Harry and Catherine, didn't really want to interrupt them as they seemed to have a good time. I was about to turn around and walk in the other direction when Harry shouted at me.

"Hey, where did you go?"

"I was just ... talking to Synne. It looked like you were busy so I let you have some time to talk," I said and smiled to both of them. Catherine was back to her "normal" again as soon as I came over, although she didn't look quite that angry, if I could call it that, anymore.

"Okay then, but are you girls still coming with us to Nandos?"

"Yes! If you still want us to?"

"Of course, why wouldn't we?" He said and gave me a cheeky smile, I could not believe how he could be that gorgeous. He probably didn't even know it himself either, but that's why girls all over the world loved him, including me.

"Are you ready to leave in like...." He checked his watch and looked over at the others. "How about if we leave in twenty minutes then? I'll just get Paul to drive us. Can you go talk to the others?" Paul was the boys guard whom followed them everywhere because of, mostly, all the girls screaming and literally jumping on them.

"Okay, I'll let them know!" I told him and walked over to the other and told them to meet us around the main backdoor of the arena in twenty minutes...

DEL 18

Elise's POV

After talking to Susann, we all decided to meet outside in twenty minutes. I had just met the only one from Niall's family who was visiting tonight, his big brother Greg. Niall's family lived in Ireland, so obviously they couldn't come down every single concert. He was really nice and had a personality just like Niall's, whom I absolutely adored. Niall and I had gotten on surprisingly well, we both had the same childish humor and loved food. As we were wrapping up our stuff, we said goodbye to Greg and went towards the backdoor where everyone was waiting, but Zayn and Fatema.

"Where are Fatema and Zayn?"

"We're not sure, I thought they were coming with you?" Louis answered me. The other nodded and didn't seem to know where they were either. Suddenly Anastasija pointed out behind us.

"There's Fatema, but I can't see Zayn with her?"

"Hey Fatema, do you know where Zayn is?" Liam asked and looked over towards Fatema for answer.

"Well, I don't exactly know what happened, but apparently there was something really important he had to do so he left with his family. He said he might come by Nandos is he got time, but unfortunately he didn't believe he'd make it." I looked over at Fatema and could see she was a little disappointed. I understood her really well, I know I would have been if Niall had to leave.

"I'll just text him and find out if everything is ok." Louis disappeared behind some scene curtains, and we decided to go outside to wait in the car. Luckily, another car had driven earlier to make it look like the boys had left, so there were no fans waiting outside. We entered the van, which surprisingly managed to fit all of us in it. I went to sit with Niall, Liam and Anastasija in the back, and Susann, Harry and Fatema and Synne took place in the middle. We waited only a few minutes before Louis came back out, he didn't look sad or anything, so it probably wasn't anything serious. I could see Fatema got a little happier as well. As we started driving, me and Niall began randomly chatting about food.

"So, have you ever been to Nandos before?" I asked him, of course knowing that it was his absolute favorite restaurant.

"Are you kidding? Of course I have, they've got the best food in the entire world!" I suddenly got really excited and I couldn't help but laugh of him. His obsession with food was seriously funny, but in another way, very cute.

"So, what do you recommend I order then?"

"Definitively chicken, their chicken is incredible!"

"Well, chicken it is then!" I said and smiled to him as the car stopped. I looked out the window to see that we were already at Nandos. I looked at my phone to check the time, it was nearly 9:30, and it was getting pretty late. We walked in to find that there were luckily not too many people in the restaurant. We found ourselves a huge table in the corner and sat down. After what seemed ages, everyone had finally decided their food and the boys went to order...

DEL 19

Fatema's POV

As soon as the boys had left to order, the girls began to gossip about the evening so far. Apparently Louis and Synne had really found their tone, and then there was Anastasija who could not stop talking about how perfect Liam was. Niall and Elise had also become a pretty good match, they all seemed extremely happy about the day, and I could not blame them. We'd only thought that it would be a normal concert and a short meeting, and now we were sitting at Nandos with the boys, it was pretty surreal. I noticed Susann hadn't really said much since we came here, and I jumped over to the seat next to her.

"Hey, is something wrong?" I asked as I sat down.

"What? Oh, no I was just thinking."

"About what?"

"Well, earlier when I met Harry's friends and family, I met this girl named Catherine. Apparently she's Harry's best friend and it's just that she didn't really seem to like me too much." She looked down.

"Really? Was it the girl with the long red hair sitting next to Harry? She seemed nice enough?"

"Yeah, it's not that. I just got a feeling that she didn't really like me being with Harry."

"And? What's the problem? It's not like you're going out or anything, right?"

"I know I'm just being stupid. Don't worry about it," she said and smiled. I could see that she still thought about it, I just couldn't figure out why that girl's opinion was that important to her. The weird part was that Susann never seemed to care about anyone else's opinions about her, but this time seemed like an exception.

Anastasija's POV

Finally the boys came back after ordering our food. Liam sat down beside me, and we instantly got on with our conversation. I didn't know why, but I liked talking to him. I sort of felt safe around him, and I had never felt this way about a guy before. And I had only met him today, and of course I was positive he didn't feel the same way. He probably goes out with a lot of fans, I guess I'm just another one in the line. The thought got me a little depressed and apparently Liam instantly noticed.

"What's on your mind?" I didn't know if I should tell him or not. What if he would laugh of me for actually thinking that he liked me? What if he did not feel the same way at all and I would just make a joke of myself. I guess I didn't want to admit it, but it had happened a few times before. I had told boys that I liked them, and they had either made fun of me or simply ran away. I don't know if I could handle that again.

"Nothing.." I answered and looked down at the table.

"Stop denying it, I can see that something is bothering you." He looked me in the eyes and I literarily felt that he could see through me and into my deepest thoughts.

"I just... it's nothing really."

"Are you sure? You wanna go for a walk? I bet the food won't be here in another fifteen minutes." I nodded back at him. He took my hand and we walked outside, it was a little cold but it didn't bother me too much.

"So, can you now tell me what's wrong?" He said as we walked down the road. It was already dark outside and only the light from the street lights lit up the small road.

"Well, okay. Don't say anything, and I know you probably don't feel the same way, but I need to get it out." He nodded as we continued walking towards a small park nearby.

"I know that we just met today and that I probably sound really desperate when I say this, but somehow I feel really comfortable and safe when I'm with you. It's like nothing can tear me apart anymore. I know we've only known each other for a few hours, but somehow you've made me feel more alive than anyone else that I've ever known. I hope you don't think I'm silly for saying all of this, but it's true and...." I didn't get to say more before I suddenly felt his lips towards mine, and the best feeling I've ever had spread through my body. The perfect kiss ended, he looked me in the eyes and smiled. We didn't say much more after that as we walked back to the restaurant, hand in hand...

DEL 20

Fatema's POV

After being away for about ten minutes, Liam and Anastasija came walking into the restaurant again, holding hands. It was obvious that something had happened outside, and it wasn't hard to guess what. As she they sat down, the food arrived and we began to eat. The food tasted amazing, something told me it wasn't the last time I was visiting this restaurant. I looked around and saw all the other girls chatting away with "their boys", while I sat here quietly and ate my food. I didn't really want to interrupt their conversations either, I just wished Zayn could have been here. We got on really well after meeting earlier, I really liked him and had a small feeling that he might like me a little as well. After finishing my food, the others were still talking and having a good time. I decided I wanted to take a trip outside instead of just sitting down doing nothing. I got up and Anastasija asked me where I was going. I told her I was just going for a short walk. She looked a little worried but continued along on her conversation with Liam. I turned towards the entrance, and continued outside.

It had gotten colder since we arrived and I was freezing a little although I didn't really mind. It felt good just to get out of all the awkwardness inside of Nandos. I walked down the road, through the Nandos parking lot. Suddenly I felt two hands around my waist and quickly turned around, facing Zayn. I instantly got happier and gave him a hug.

"Hey, you scared me! What are you doing here? I didn't think you would make it."

"Me neither, but it took a lot shorter time than I thought it would," he told me and smiled. I was really happy to see him again, it had felt a little lonely since he'd left us earlier.

"What were you doing anyway?"

"Nothing big really. Since it's almost Christmas I thought I'd finish the Christmas shopping now that my family was visiting and everything."

"I see, well at least you're here now. I'm really happy to see you!"

"Me too, I can't believe I missed you those few hours I was away." When he said that, I totally melted inside. We'd only just met and he already missed me, maybe he actually did like me as well.

"Well, I missed you too." I could see a smile form in his face as I told him.

"What are you doing out here anyway?"

"It was kind of awkward inside as when everyone basically sat in pairs talking with each other and I just sat there quiet."

"Oh, well I'm here now! Can I join you for a walk then?"

"Of course you can," I said and smiled at him when we continued down the road. After a while of talking and a lot of laughing, it had managed to get even colder. Suddenly I felt his hand in mine. I looked at him and smiled, he smiled back and caught me by a big surprise when he leant forward and kissed me. He pulled out and looked at me.

"I'm sorry, is it too early?" I leant in to kiss him back as my answer to his question. Suddenly I felt drops on my head and we both looked up. It had finally started to snow! We grabbed each other's hand and began on our way back to the restaurant.

Elise's POV

As I sat talking with Niall about the tour, I noticed Fatema was missing. I looked around to see if I could spot her anywhere, when she and Zayn suddenly came in the entrance and in hand. I guess they weren't the only "lovebirds" tonight as I was thinking about Liam and Anastasija earlier. We all welcomed him back, and I could see especially Fatema was happy to see him again. She had probably felt a little left out as she mostly had been alone for the last hours, but now she had gotten her smile back. They went over to get some food for Zayn, as he hadn't eaten anything since before the concert. I looked back at Niall whom was still eating on the huge menu he had ordered earlier. I laughed a little at him, he was just too cute. I couldn't believe I had finally met someone just like me, and he actually seemed to like me being myself as well.

"So, when's the last concert before Christmas?"

"It's the 23 December in Manchester."

"Are you going home to see your family then?"

"Yes, I'm leaving for Ireland late on 24th. That way I'll have one day with the boys and some days with my family. What are you doing for Christmas, are you going back to Norway again?"

"No, I'm staying here until 3 January. I'm staying at Nathalie's house along with Anastasija!"

"Really? Well, we're having sort of a party on the 24th, back in our apartment. Maybe you'd like to come along with the other girls?"

"Yes, I'd love to. I'll just talk with the other girls later."

"Great!" We both smiled at each other, I could not believe he had actually just asked me over to his apartment. I mean, it's Niall from One Direction for God's sake, I didn't really think of him like that after spending a few hours with him though. I grabbed my phone in my pocket and looked at the time. It was already past eleven, I knew we had missed our train. The last one went in only twenty minutes so we had to hurry up or else we would miss this one as well.

"Girls!" I said to get their attention.

"The last train leaves in less than twenty minutes! I'm sorry but we'll have to leave now." I think everyone got a little depressed that the night was already over, including me. I would love to spend more time with Niall, he was just the best thing that had happened to me in a long time and I just didn't want to let him go this fast. When the bill arrived, we all wanted to share, but the boys protested. They insisted on paying all of it, no matter how much we tried to convince them otherwise. Five minutes later, we were all packed up and ready to go. I noticed that it had started snowing and I loved it, finally it seemed like it would be a white Christmas. As the girls had their goodbyes with the others, I said goodbye to Niall. We exchanged numbers and I agreed to text him as soon I knew if I could attend the party or not. As I gave him a last hug and turned around to leave with the others, Niall grabbed my hand and turned me around. He placed his lips on mine and we shared a passionately goodnight kiss. We wore soon interrupted by the others shouting from the car.

"I'm coming!" I shouted back. I kissed Niall one last time, told him goodnight and went towards the car. We didn't say much on our way to the train station as everyone was pretty much in their own thoughts. When we arrived at the station the train was just about to leave when we came running down the pavilion. We got on and sat down. Most of us fell asleep during the long trip, only me and Susann was awake. We talked during the entire trip, and when we finally got home around 2.30 am, we all went to sleep. I took a last look at my phone, only to notice one last message had come in.

"Goodnight babe, hope to see you next week! xx Niall"...

DEL 21

Susann's POV

The sun shined bright through the window as someone shoves the curtains aside. I slowly open my eyes to see Elise up fully clothed and ready to go out.

"What is going on? Why are you up so early?"

"Don't you remember what day it is?" I just looked stupidly at her and she took my point.

"It's Friday 23'rd, remember? We're meeting the boys tonight! And by the way, it's not that early, it's already passed ten." I began to come to myself as I slowly woke up.

"Right, I remember now. But I still don't get why we're up already?"

"You promised we'd go shopping before our "date" with the boys, you remember that?" I stood up and spotted Anastasija slowly waking up as well.

"What's going on Elise?!" Anastasija said, as she hadn't quite gotten the message yet. We'd stayed up pretty late last night, as none of us managed to sleep on the thought of meeting the boys again today. It had been more than a week since last time we saw them, and everyone was really excited for later. We had been texting and calling the boys all week and had decided we were all meeting up with them after their concert in Manchester tonight. We were going out on this very nice restaurant, and everyone instantly decided they had to go buy a nice dress for the evening. We both got up and got dressed simple, as we would just change later anyway. We went downstairs to get some breakfast, called Synne and Fatema and told them to meet us at the mall in thirty minutes.

Half an hour later we were gathered at the mall, desperately trying to decide what shop we would go to first. Synne and Elise disappeared in one direction, while Fatema, Anastasija and I went in the other. After less than two hours, we had all found dresses to use and we went home to my place to get ready. We were meeting the boys at seven, my dad was driving us as it was only a fifty minutes' drive away from Cheshire.

Two and a half hours later, we were all ready to go. Synne had put on a beautiful, short, turquoise dress with a bow in the middle and black heels. Fatema had a short, black dress with gold accessories and golden heels. Elise had a white dress with brown roman sandals. Anastasija had a red dress with ruffles and black heels. I had bought a dark purple, sequin dress with black heels. They all looked incredibly gorgeous. We went downstairs and took our places in dad's car. After about an hour, we had found our way to the restaurant, only ten minutes late. We gathered our jackets and purses, and walked out of the car to find the boys...

DEL 22

Harry's POV:

It was ten minutes past time and for some reason, the boys had already started worrying that the girls wouldn't show. I went outside to check again, and noticed a black car coming around the corner. I recognized the girl sitting in the front seat, it was Susann. I smiled and turned around to get the boys outside. As they walked out of the car, I could see the other boys widening their eyes as well. The girls looked stunning, especially Susann. We walked over to welcome them and led them inside to find our table.

"You look stunning tonight!" I looked over at Susann while telling her.

"Thank you! You don't look so bad yourself, "she said back with a bit of banter. I loved girls with a bit of banter, playing hard to get. I looked at her again, I couldn't get over how beautiful she looked tonight.

"This place is amazing!"

"I know, it's incredible. Our friend Paul recommended it to us." We found our table and took our places, I sat in between Louis and Susann. The waitress came with our menus, she seemed a little too over exited as she asked us what we wanted to drink. She had obviously noticed that we were "One Direction" and tried desperately to hide it without success. I had to laugh a little, and Susann looked over at me. I nodded towards the waitress and she put on a smile as well. After a whole fifteen minutes, we had managed to decide what to eat and the waitress instantly came over to take our order.

"So, you are coming tomorrow right?" I asked Susann.

"Tomorrow?"

"The party?"

"Yes, I think so. I don't know if dad will be able to drive us down here though, he might me busy."

"Oh, can't you just stay here in town for the night then?"

"Well, we don't exactly have much money with us and I don't believe we would find any hotels this late either."

"Right, but you're free to stay in our apartment. We've got lots of space you know!"

"Really? Are you sure that's okay with the others?"

"By the way things are looking, I don't believe that would be a problem," I answered and looked around the table. All of the boys seemed to have found an interest in each of the girls. Especially since I already knew Liam, Zayn and Niall had started "going out" with Anastasija, Fatema and Elise. As I shared apartment with Louis, I had also noticed he had been chatting and talking with Synne all week, so they would probably get on soon. I hadn't seen Lou this happy in months after he and Hannah broke up, so it was nice to see him smile again.

Susann's POV

After about twenty minutes, the food finally arrived, and it tasted amazing as expected. We ordered dessert as well, personally I shared a delicious chocolate mousse with Harry. We stayed at the restaurant half an hour before we decided to leave.

"Are you sure it's ok that we stay at your place tonight?"

"Yes, of course!" Louis replied.

"You've got enough bed space?"

"If two of us sleep on the couch. I'm sure we'll be able to work it out." Liam told us. Paul came to pick us up, and after a few hours of driving we finally reached their apartment in London. We went in and took the elevator up. When we entered the apartment, we got ourselves a big surprise. The apartment was huge, not like I had expected at all. It had six bedrooms, each with a big double bed. As they showed us the rest of the apartment, we ended up in the huge living room.

"So, it's already almost midnight, are you girls tired?" Surprisingly it seemed like none of us were sleepy at all, so we decided we would put on a movie instead.

"What do you want to watch?"

"Love Actually, I love that movie!" Harry randomly shouted. It was my favorite movie as well, and we all agreed to watch it. Only twenty minutes into the movie, Fatema and Elise were already asleep, I guess they were pretty tired after all. Zayn and Niall said they were pretty tired as well, and they carried both Fatema and Elise into one of the guestrooms, and went back to their own. A short while after, Liam and Anastasija decided to go as well, and it was only Synne, Louis, Harry and I left watching the movie.

"Is anyone hungry?" Louis said interrupting the movie.

"I am!" Synne replied while both I and Harry shock our heads. They went out in the kitchen to get some snacks for the movie while I and Harry stayed in the couch. I began to feel a little tired as well and leant back on Harry.

"Are you freezing?" Harry suddenly asked me, and I noticed I was shivering a little.

"Only a little," I replied, he leant out of the couch and grabbed a duvet placed next to the couch. He laid it over me as I leant back on him.

"So, what do you think of the movie so far?" He took his arm around me, it felt really warm against my cold body.

"I love it, it's one of my favorite movies," I told him although I hadn't really managed to concentrate much on the movie.

"Really? Mine too. Although a lot of boys may not admit it, we love romantic movies. Well, I know I do." He turned his head and looked straight into my eyes. Again, I noticed his gorgeous green eyes and couldn't help but smile. He smiled back and slowly began leaning towards me, and our lips met. The most amazing feeling went through my body as we leant in for another kiss, suddenly interrupted by Louis and Synne returning from the kitchen with chips and chocolate. By the look on Synne's face, something else had obviously happened in the kitchen as well, but I decided to ask her about it in the morning. Near the end of the movie, Louis and Synne went to sleep as well, and I looked back at Harry finding him sleeping with his arms still wrapped around me. I couldn't keep my eyes open any longer and fell asleep on the couch together with Harry...

DEL 23

Susann's POV

I slowly began to wake up as something started to rumble beside me. I opened my eyes to see Harry trying to sneak out from the couch. I turned around and looked sleepy up at him wondering where he was going and trying to remember last night as I was too tired to collect my mind.

"Oh, I'm sorry. Did I wake you?" He asked and sat back down on the couch.

"Yes, but it's okay. I would probably have woken up soon anyway, what's the time?" I looked at the clock hanging up at the wall.

"What?! It's only six thirty in the morning?! And now I officially hate you." He laughed his cute little laugh and wrapped his arms around me and looked at me with the cutest puppy face.

"There's no way I'm falling for that!" I protested and turned away, because I knew I would have to give in sooner or later anyway. He turned my head around and slowly moved in for a kiss, but managed to stay back as our lips we were only a few inches away from each other.

"Are you absolutely sure?" He showed of his gorgeous smile and moved closer. Just when I was about to kiss him, I quickly pulled away.

"There's no way you're waking me up this early and gets away with it!" I told him off and crawled over to the other side of the couch and put a slightly irritated but banterous look on my face.

"Well, I guess I'll have to sleep over here all by myself then.." He said and dragged the duvet away from me. It was freezing and I tried to get it back, but he refused. He looked at me for a while before I finally had to give up and sneak up at him and pulled the duvet over me. He kissed me lightly on the head, and that's the last thing I remembered before falling asleep again in his arms.

Anastasija's POV

I felt a sudden movement next to me and slowly began to open my eyes. I turned around to see Liam snoring in his sleep with his arm around my waist. He was just too cute as he was lying there in his black Calvin Klein boxers and the duvet dragged half way over his head. I didn't want to wake him up, so I went out of the bed and into the bathroom as slowly as I could. I tried to find something to wear, as I only had my dress from last night. I took it off and found one of Liam's huge hoodies on the chair. I dragged it over my head and went out in the kitchen to find something to eat, as I was already starving. I looked over towards the couch as I passed the living room, to find Harry sleeping with his arms wrapped tight around Susann. Could they possibly get any cuter than that? I continued out in the kitchen and opened the fridge to see if there was anything tempting inside, when I suddenly felt two arms wrapping around my waist.

"Hey babe," Liam said with his sexy morning voice as I turned around to face him.

"Hey handsome, did I wake you up?" He hadn't gotten dressed yet, as he was still only standing in his boxers.

"No, I heard someone talking in the other room. It must have been Niall or Zayn. How are you feeling? Did you get any sleep?"

"I'm great thanks! And yes, the bed was amazing, I don't think I've ever slept this well in my entire life."

"So it was only because of the bed then?"

"Well, It miiight have gotten something to do with the handsome boy sleeping beside me aswell.." I kissed him lightly on the lips and continued over to collect some cereal.

"Now that's better." He smiled and found two bowls and some milk and we sat down. Niall, Zayn and Fatema entered the room and greeted us good morning.

"Where's Elise? I thought she'd be with you?" I asked Niall curiously.

"She's still in bed. I didn't want to wake her as she looked so beautiful in her sleep. Did you notice Susann and Harry on the couch by the way? How late did it get last night?"

"I'm not exactly sure, but I heard Synne and Louis going to bed around 1.30 am, so it was probably somewhere near that time." Liam answered as the others found some breakfast for themselves.

"So, what are we doing today then?" I asked and changed the subject. The boys were throwing a party tonight, and there was a lot of preparation to be done.

"I thought that maybe Niall, Elise, Fatema and I could go down to the supermarket to get some food and drinks," Zayn replied and looked over at Fatema whom nodded.

"And Anastasija, Louis, Synne and I have got some last minute Christmas shopping to do. Then Susann and Harry would be fixing up the apartment." Liam continued while Elise stepped into the kitchen.

"Hello beautiful, did you sleep well?" Niall walked over and kissed her good morning.

"I did thank you! Did I miss anything?" Elise answered and looked over at us while grabbing a bowl of cereal.

"Not really. You're going with Zayn, Fatema and me to get some food and drinks for the party tonight, if that's alright with you?" Niall questioned her.

"Of course! What about the others?"

"They're going shopping for some Christmas presents, and Susann and Harry will be staying here and clean up a little."

We all got finished eating, although we quickly found out we didn't have much to wear. I borrowed one of Liam's sweatpants and kept the hoodie on. Liam left a note for Harry and Susann, as they surprisingly hadn't woken up yet, and we all left the apartment...

DEL 24

Susann's POV

I opened my eyes for the second time this morning, noticing Harry wasn't lying beside me any longer. I stood up from the couch and continued out in the kitchen where Harry was standing in nothing but a pair of gray sweatpants, I had to admit he looked rather handsome. I went over and kissed him good morning.

"Hello sexy, you finally up?"

"Yes I am, why didn't you wake me?"

"Well, you got really angry the last time, so I didn't want to make the same mistake again." I laughed as I remembered our little "session" earlier this morning.

"Hmm, fine. I don't suppose you've got any clothes you could lend me? I've only got this dress from last night."

"Right, you go look in my bathroom, I'm sure you'll find something." I smiled at him and turned around to find his bathroom. As I walked in, I noticed a purple jack Willis hoodie hanging on a chair in the corner. It got me thinking of the first time me and Harry had met that day when he bumped into me at the shop, it felt so long ago, still I could remember his purple hoodie, white converse and gorgeous curls. I decided to go for the purple hoodie as it looked quite big. I got out of the dress and put the hoodie on, I walked back into the kitchen. Harry had made some eggs and bacon and was just putting it on the table as I walked in. He waved me over and I sat down on his lap.

"Aren't you eating anything?"

"No, I have already eaten."

"Okay then, more food for me," I said and he laughed.

"Where are the others?" I asked as I noticed none of them were around.

"They left earlier while we were sleeping, I found a note on the table saying they were out shopping for the party tonight."

"We'll, I guess we're staying here then?"

"Yes, we'll have to find some music and clean it up a little."

"But what am I going to wear? I haven't got anything else then the dress I used yesterday."

"Well, I guess you can borrow some of Gemma's clothes if you want to? She sometimes sleeps here when she's in London so she's got a few dresses over here I think."

"Are you sure that would be okay with her?"

"Of course, she usually never uses these anyway." I followed him over towards a closet and found some amazing dresses inside.

"Wow, these are beautiful! Are you absolutely sure I'm allowed to wear these?"

"Yes, I'm sure. And I know you'll look stunning in them as well!"

"Yeah, as if. Your sister is gorgeous, I bet I won't be able to beat that," I said and laughed it away. We went out in the living room again, when he turned me around.

"Of course you will, you always look beautiful to me." He looked deeply into my eyes and pulled me in for a hug. He whispered into my ear "I love you", I pulled away to look him straight into his eyes. Harry looked at me with a serious look and I knew he meant it. He brightened up when I gave him a light kiss and whispered back, "I love you too Harry Styles." He leaned down and pressed his lips to mine. At first it was gentle, most like we used to, but when I began to kiss him back he responded by getting rougher. He slightly pushed me down on the couch and our eyes met again as our heads were on the same level. His sparkling eyes looked at me with emotion and I could feel it too. A feeling I'd never had before, and never thought I would experience for a very long time. Love. The way he looked at me, the way he brightened up my day only by smiling at me, his adorable laugh. I moved in for another kiss, and our lips met again with more emotion than ever. I felt his skin warm against my cold body as I twined my hands into his soft and curly hair. My heart was pounding fast in inside my chest, when he put his hands down around my waist pulling me closer. I never wanted this moment to end.

Niall's POV

"I think we need this one as well. And what about those chips?" I looked in the basket to see if we had gotten all the food we needed for the party.

"Niall, you don't think it's enough now?" Zayn asked me with a stupid look on his face, or that's what I thought. I mean, who could ever get enough food?

"Fine, but I do believe we need more drinks. And maybe some popcorn?"

"NIALL!!" Both Zayn, Fatema and Elise shouted at me slightly annoyed, and I turned around disappointed. They just did not understand, not even Elise. I looked over at the overfilled basket with food and went to pay for it. We walked out of the shop, Elise and Fatema went by Starbucks to get something to drink while we headed home. It was already four o'clock and the guests could arrive any minute. We met up with the girls in the elevator after taking some pictures with the fans waiting outside.

Louis's POV

After spending several hours with shopping, we were all pretty exhausted and decided to head home. I had even bought a Christmas present for Synne, although she had no idea. She had been "window-shopping" all day and not really bought anything sensible until she had spotted this dress that she absolutely adored. She had been staring at it for probably an hour before we dragged her on. Later I had went back to buy it for the party tonight. I knew she didn't have anything to wear, so I thought I'd surprise her when we got home.

"So, are you girls finished buying up the entire mall so that we can get home?" Both I and Liam laughed as we looked over at the girls who didn't seem to find it that funny.

"But I've got nothing to wear!" Both Anastasija and Synne complained.

"It's not like we can walk around in these sweatpants either!"

"I'm sure we'll find something, now hurry before we miss the bus." Liam said and we walked over to the bus central.

About twenty minutes later, we got home to the apartment. The time was already five o'clock and the guests were arriving at seven, so we had some work to do. We went upstairs to find Niall and the others already there. The apartment was fixed up with lights and music, and Niall had already begun to fix the food.

"Synne, would you come here for just a second?" I looked over at her and we went over to the couch.

"What is it?"

"Well, I thought that... You know I really like you and I wanted to get you something for Christmas. I know it's a little early, " I said while giving her the present, "but I thought you might want it now."

"What? What is it?" She said while opening it. When she saw what it was, her eyes widened.

"I can't believe you actually bought it to me! But, I don't have anything for you.."

"I know, it's okay," I assured her.

"Thank you so, so much!!" She said and kissed me. She hurried out to get changed, I laughed and walked over to the others.

"What happened to Synne? Did she get on fire or something?" Anastasija asked. I told her about the dress and she laughed.

"But, I've still got nothing to wear though," she said with a little disappointment.

"Yes you do," Liam stepped forward and gave her a box. She opened it and found one of the dresses her and Synne had been looking at in the shop.

"Omg!! Thank you soo much! I can't believe I didn't get you anything either," she said a little disappointed.

"I don't care, the best thing is that I'll get to be with you."

Susann's POV

After a few hours, the place was filled up with people. As I knew I wouldn't know many people there, Harry had told me I could invite someone if I wanted to. At the concert last week, I had met this girl, Marita, and we had really hit it off. I had stayed in touch with her since, so when I asked her If she wanted to come, she was ecstatic. I suddenly spotted her in the crowd and ran over to give her a hug.

"Hey, I'm so glad you could make it!"

"Thank you so much for inviting me, I couldn't believe it when I first got your text. You look amazing as well!" I had to smile over her excitement. She was a huge One Direction fan and could probably not believe she was actually here.

"Thank you, you look amazing as well!" We went over to the snack table to see if I could spot any of the boys, but they were nowhere to be seen.

"Could you just wait here for a second, I'll just find Harry."

"Sure!"

The apartment had gotten even more crowdy the last hour. Some of the guests had been drinking quite a lot as well, as it was alcohol on every table. I went around the corner and spotted a familiar boy in the crowd.

"Harry!" I shouted, but he didn't seem to hear me. I was going to walk over to him, but then he suddenly turned to his other side and kissed a girl whom I've never seen before. I could feel tears form in my eyes and ran in the opposite direction. I went out on the terrace to sit down. I couldn't believe what I had just witnessed, as much as I wanted it to be someone else I had seen, I knew it had been Harry. Suddenly someone coughed behind me, and I turned around to see Catherine standing in the doorway, great.

"Can I talk to you for a minute?"...

DEL 25

Suddenly someone coughed behind me, and I turned around to see Catherine standing in the doorway, great.

"Can I talk to you for a minute?"...

Susann's POV

"Catherine, I'm really not in the mood right now." She ignored my comment and took place next to me on the stairs out to the terrace.

"I just wanted to apologize. I know I haven't really been very welcoming, if you know what I mean. It's just that I'm afraid that Harry will be hurt again." I looked over at her with confusion.

"Hurt? What do you mean?"

"His last two girlfriends both cheated on him with someone else, he took it really hard. I just wanted to make sure you wouldn't hurt him too. Already after the concert, I noticed how much he liked you, it wasn't hard to see as it was written all over his face when I saw him. I was just trying to protect him from getting his heart broken again, but now I realize it's not my responsibility. I shouldn't have reacted the way I did. I'm sorry if I made you feel unwelcomed, I actually think you seem really nice."

"Well, thank you for telling me, I had no idea. Not that it mean anything now anyway.."

"What do you mean?"

"I saw him kissing another girl inside a few minutes ago." I couldn't hold back the tears anymore, as I thought of what Harry had told me earlier this day, and I had told him that I loved him. Did it mean nothing to him?

"Wait, what?! Are you absolutely sure it was him?"

"Positive. I thought he really liked me, I guess I was just wrong."

"I can't believe he did that," Cathrine continued with a slightly disappointed look on her face. "Trust me on this, you're not wrong. I've seen the way he looks at you, like you're his, in a way."

"Then explain to me why he kissed someone else?" The tears continued down my cheeks and Cathrine looked at me with a serious look as she continued.

"I do not know. Would you excuse me for a second?" I nodded as I saw her disappear in the crowd. Another familiar face appeared, Marita came towards me and sat down.

"What has happened?"

Cathrine's POV

I fought myself through the crowd until I spotted the familiar face in the corner of the living room. I grabbed his arm and turned him around facing me.

"I thought you loved her?!" I said, nearly shouting into Harry's ears as the music was so loud.

"What are you talking about?"

"Susann! She saw you kissing another girl earlier, I can't believe you did that after all the times you've been hurt yourself!"

"No, you don't understand, I didn't kiss her, she kissed me.."

"Really Harry, really?! Well, try explaining that to Susann then!"

"But, it was just a kiss, it didn't mean anything."

"A kiss always means something." I said and turned around in the opposite direction and walked away. When I looked back, he was already out of my sight.

Harry's POV

I could not believe what had just happened, I was just mad at myself for even letting her near me. Her name was Erika, she was my ex-girlfriend. I had caught her cheating on me with another guy about a year ago, which had broken my heart. When she came up to me earlier she kept talking about the fact that she had made a mistake, that she still loved me. Then she came up to me and kissed me, I had pushed her away from me and walked away. I could not believe I had just done that, I had hurt the person who meant the most to me, just like Erika had hurt me before. I ran through the crowd looking for Susann, but no one seemed to know where she is. Finally I found her sitting outside on the terrace with Marita, whom I recognized from the concert.

"Hey, can I talk to you?" Both Susann and Marita turned around and looked at me. Susann nodded and Marita gave me and angry look before disappearing inside.

"What do you want?" Susann asked me, I could see she had been crying and I didn't blame her.

"I want to say I'm sorry, it wasn't meant to happen in there, it just did. I just wanted to you know that I didn't kiss her, she was the one who kissed me..."

"It doesn't matter, maybe we just wasn't meant to be."

"Don't talk like that, you know how much I..."

"..love me?" She interrupted me.

"This would never have happened if you actually meant that! Maybe this was a mistake, I mean, I only met you like a week ago. Maybe we're rushing into things..."

"I know I only met you a few weeks ago, but my feelings for you are something I could have never imagined. I've never felt like this with anyone before, it must mean something?"

Susann's POV

He kept trying to apologize for what had happened inside, but as much as I wanted to forgive him and just be able to hug him again, I couldn't. I just didn't want to let myself get in the same positions as the last few times I've gotten my heart broken. Not this time.

"I'm sorry Harry, but I just can't do this anymore. I just don't want to end up hurt like with the other people that I've loved, alone and heartbroken." With that, I stood up and walked inside. Tear began forming in my eyes again, I dried them away as I went to look for the other girls. I finally found Anastasija with Liam, talking to some other girls. She introduced them as Malene and Elisabeth, they seemed really nice but I just couldn't stay to chat with them too long. I took Anastasija out to talk to her.

"I'm not feeling to well, I think I might head home."

"What? What is wrong?"

"Ehm... I just don't feel very well.." I could see by the look on her face that she understood there was something else bothering me, but luckily she understood that I didn't want to talk about it.

"Are you sure you want to leave then?"

"Yes, I'm sorry. But you're free to stay if you want to."

"Is that okay? I really want to spend some time with Liam, but I'll ask him if he can fix you a ride home?"

"Yes, thank you." She turned around to talk to Liam, he asked me if everything was okay, I just nodded. I didn't want any more drama tonight. I told me he'd call on Paul, their driver, to see if he could get me home. I thanked him and went outside in the hallway to wait, Anastasija followed me out.

"Can I ask you something? Please don't be mad at me."

"Why would I be mad at you?"

"Well, Liam asked me earlier if I wanted to come home with him on Christmas eve, and I really want to cause I really really like him, but I was just wondering if it was alright with you?"

"Of course it is. I'm really happy for you two!" I said, trying to hide my own feelings at the moment.

"Really? Thank you, I'm sorry for leaving you like this."

"It's okay." I looked down at the floor.

"Are you sure that you are alright? You don't seem too good."

"I am, I just have a lot on my mind. I really don't want to talk about it today, give me a call tomorrow?"

"Of course!" Paul arrived and I was just about to enter the car when I remembered that I had forgotten my jacket upstairs. Anastasija went up to get it, and we said one last goodbye before I got in the car. An hour later, he stopped outside my house in Cheshire, I thanked him for driving me this far and said goodbye. I went up to the door, but surprisingly it was locked up, I sat down on a bench next to the entrance. I looked inside the pockets of my jacket, looking for my phone when I noticed an envelope I hadn't seen before. I looked at it, it had my name written on it and I opened it.

Dear Susann

I'm writing this now, because I know that you won't listen to me otherwise.

Do you remember the first time we met, it was 11.15 on a Thursday morning 1st of December. I can still remember how stupid I had felt when I ran you over, but now I can see that it was the best mistake I have ever made. Because of that, I met you. You have changed my life in so many ways the last time we have spent together, and when we're apart, you're always on my mind. You make me feel like a better person when I'm with you, you make me feel complete in a way that I've never felt before. When I told you that I loved you, it came from the bottom of my heart, and you have no idea have amazing it felt when you said it back to me. I know you believe that you have made the right decision, but all I'm asking is for you to reconsider me. I know I made a mistake, I know I messed up, but all I want is that you'll try to understand how much I regret it. Just know that I love you, and I always will no matter what you choose.

Harry

As I read through it, a thousand thoughts flew through my mind at the same time. Had I made the right decision? My mind told me that it was the right thing to do, but my heart told me differently. As I read through it one more time, I knew what I had to do. I went with my heart, picked up the phone and dialed a number I already knew too well...

