 
Outliers of Tirano

A Tale In The Encircling Belts Of Tirano Saga

by Shawn B. Thompson

Copyright 2013 Shawn B. Thompson

Smashwords Edition

Smashwords Edition, License Notes

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

Prologue

On the planet Tirano, my mother leads an order of genetically engineered women, the Sisterhood of Sibyls, who do not marry and produce daughters in vitro. The Vhirko, clones of females who died valiantly in battle, guard Tirano's monarch at all times. To be a member of Tirano's aristocracy, the Archonan, one must be a pureblooded descendant of the leadership of the mother ship that landed almost two millennia ago. Imagine the inbreeding that has resulted during those two millennia.

Nonetheless, in this milieu, I'm the one stigmatized as a bizarre creature. Not because of my shoulder-length red hair, whitish skin, and stubby physique, but because of the happenstance of my birth. First, I am only half-Tiranoan. My father is an indigen of a planet called Earth that is located on the other side of the Black Cavities. But even more damning, I am the only child ever naturally conceived and given birth by a Sibyl, and to make matters worse, a male child.

However, I'm not a Sibyl. The manner of my birth and a certain part of my anatomy disqualified me. That's fine with me; I've never desired to be a Sibyl and be cloistered most of my life in the Sibyl Compound. Nonetheless, Mom insisted that I be educated in Sibyl schools and used her authority as High Sibyl to have me admitted to the secular classes. I enjoyed legal studies and graduated with a legist degree.

Because I'm the only male ever to be Sibyl educated, I'm the only male who knows how to manipulate a Sibyl fire opal pendant. As a result, I can use my pendant to contact Vision, the Sibyl's vast computer network. Among its other attributes, Vision's research tentacles reach every library in the galaxy, some of which aren't meant to be public, including the only library that I am prohibited from accessing - the Sibyl classified files. The ability to access Vision has proven to be the best gift Mom could have given me, and I never remove my trine necklace that holds my pendant.

Mom could give me an education, but she couldn't give me friends. I only have one friend, Siniastra. Why? We're two mules in a herd of assess. Even though we were raised as if we were Archonan children, we weren't. Like me, Sini had a parent who wasn't Archonan. Her mother, the Vhirko Mirae, was the clone of a peasant child. Thus, under Tiranoan law we were legally classified as KaNoa, not Archonan, something the Archonan children who populated Arvor City never let us forget.

It didn't matter to them or the law that the peasant child had helped save the life of King Mhikhel or that Mhikhel's son, King Zhun'Mar, had married Mirae and that Sini was their child and a Princess. Nor did it matter that my father had discovered the way for King Zhun'Mar, Mirae, and my mother to return to Tirano after they'd been stranded on Earth following the Mhorg's Caerwin Ambush. That he'd also discovered how to restore the vine on Tirano also meant nothing.

But those events are subject of another archive. This archive concerns Archonan subversion of everything Sini and I represent.

-1-

Royal Council Chamber

Arvor Castel

Planet Tirano

"All of us at this table know that Princess Siniastra is a wonderful young woman. And none of us doubt her, ah," Count Hoj Rohfek paused, leaned back in his chair, and pinched his double chin, "ability to produce an heir capable of assuming the Golden Vine Throne. Unfortunately, as we all also know, many members of the Archonan Assembly do not share our confidence. Overlady Petrella's proposal for a nondurable marriage with Lord Fiotr has provided a solution. It would permit Siniastra to produce a child and demonstrate that her line would not be defective. And it would produce a Tamok scion in our royal family. We would no longer have to worry about obtaining Tamok sihlcon. After the marriage term ends, Siniastra would be free to –"

"Enough Count! I won't do that to my daughter." The sharp tone of Consort Mirae's voice bounced off the Royal Chamber's muhrwood paneling and echoed in the Chamber's golden dome. "I will never consent to Siniastra marrying Fiotr Lok."

Mirae's face turned scarlet and her cobalt-blue eyes narrowed to slits. "How could you even contemplate such a thing? He's the son of Mhorg. You act as though Mhorg did not murder Tarnlot. That he never tried to kill Zhun'Mar, steal the Golden Vine Ring, and usurp the Golden Vine Throne."

She clenched her jaw and spoke through closed teeth. "Unlike you, I was there. Two dekas may have passed, but I will never forget. Nor will I ever forgive."

From my vantage point in a chair against the inner wall, I was so shocked by Mirae's unexpected outburst that I released my grip on my Sibyl pendant and ceased transmission of the notes I'd been sending to my archiver. Mirae seldom said a word during Royal Council meetings. She hid behind a stone face that never expressed any emotion. But I vibrated with the same emotion. I shared her repugnance at the thought of Siniastra married to Mhorg's son. While on Earth, not only had Mhorg Lok and his brother, Bhradvin Lok, murdered Tarnlot. They had also tried to destroy my father and abduct my mother. I was one who believed the Tamok should have been forced to disavow all of Mhorg and Bhradvin vile acts and to have paid reparations in the form of sihlcon. Instead, upon his return, Zhun'Mar negotiated a treaty with the Tamok to purchase sihlcon chips. Evidently, that's not enough for the Tamok. Now, they want to be rewarded with Sini's marriage to a Lok in addition to the outrageous price in assignats that we must pay for the third generation of sihlcon chips Tamok Mining produces.

Mirae turned her glare across the circular muhrwood table to her husband, King Zhun'Mar. Zhun'Mar's blue eyes widened, as if cold water had doused his curly salt-and-pepper hair. He slumped his broad shoulders back in his chair, spoke softly. "We must consider the value of this for the future of Tirano. There is no other source of sihlcon. At the current rate, all of the Belts' sihlcon chips will malfunction within two loops. We must have the new chips."

Mirae didn't say a word and continued to glare at Zhun'Mar. After a few milli, she fixed her glare on the gray-haired, heavy-jowled man sitting next to Zhun'Mar: Count Rohfek, the Lord Chancellor of Tirano. Rohfek lowered his eyes and stared at his folded hands. Mirae turned her head toward Commandant Lydmila, Commandant of the Vhirko Brigade. With her barrel-chested frame rigid in her black Vhirko uniform, Lydmila blankly returned Mirae's gaze. Next Mirae scrutinized Admiral Kiptani, commander of the Royal Armada. The swarthy, lanky Kiptani didn't blink and Mirae's glare landed on the last person seated at the Council table: my mother, Caykondra, the High Sibyl. Mom nodded in apparent agreement with Mirae.

Mirae returned her glare to Zhun'Mar, which had to feel like a maser blaster aimed at him. "I will not listen to any further Archonan and Tamok folly regarding our daughter." She shoved her chair back. It toppled over and crashed on the ivory and black marble floor with a crack. Count Rohfek jumped in his chair as if he'd been shot by one of the Belts' maser blasters. The heels of Mirae's black boots pounded the floor, the heavy metal door of the chamber swung open, and closed with clang.

I realized I'd been holding my breath and could taste the stale air in my lungs. Even though I wasn't a member of the Royal Council and merely recorded notes in position as resident intern for Count Rohfek, I didn't want to be included in Mirae's outrage. As Royal Consort, Mirae was no longer active in the Vhirko Brigade, but she maintained her Vhirko conditioning routines and personally trained Siniastra in Vhirko martial arts. Mirae could kill any non-Vhirko in the room with her bare hands if chose to do so, and even the bigger, burly Lydmila would be challenged by Mirae's superior quickness and steely will.

I peered at Mom. Her fingers cradled her fire-opal pendant against the single shoulder strap of her vermilion trumpet gown. Others might think she was deep in thought as she stared out the room's single Palladian window with its second-floor view of the kilometer wide square surrounding Arvor Castel. I knew she was using her pendant to communicate with Vision before she spoke.

After a moment, she rose from her chair, and even though she was shorter than Mirae, she too scowled at Count Rohfek as if preparing to engage in physical combat. "Mirae is correct. It stinks of Rheginahld Nhoth scheming to get himself next in line for the Golden Vine Throne. How can you and the Archonan Assembly contemplate such a thing? The Sisterhood will never condone such an unnatural marriage. I personally will do all in my power to stop this lunacy. Like Mirae, I was there, and like her, I will never forget nor forgive."

_Me too_ , I thought. I looked around the table to see if any other Council members would join Mom's dissent. Commandant Lydmila and Admiral Kiptani stared at each other without expression, and I could read their thoughts that this was a political matter not within their realms of concern.

Count Rohfek puckered his thick lips and folded his arms across his rotund belly straining against his sapphire robe. "I realize how personally upsetting this must be to you and Consort Mirae," he said unctuously. "But we must face reality. No Archonan will marry the child of a clone even is she is the Princess. None will risk fathering a defective child that would contaminate his gene pool. This marriage solves two problems. It provides a husband for the Princess and it heals the festering wound between us and Tamok. It may be the only way the Arvor line can be continued in a manner acceptable to the Archonan Assembly."

Zhun'Mar laid his right hand on the table and stared at the stub of his ring finger as if he could feel the pain of when Mhorg had sliced it off. After a moment, he swiveled his head toward Mom. "Securing a Tamok alliance is too important to be endangered by personal feelings: Mirae's, mine, or yours. In light of the Archonan Assembly's recommendation, Overlady Petrella's proposal must be analyzed rationally, not emotionally. I intend to do so and expect each of you to do the same."

He stood. "I will speak further in private with Mirae. Council adjourned."

I rose along with the Council members and stood at attention while Zhun'Mar and his two Vhirko guard left the room. As soon as Zhun'Mar walked through the Chamber door, Lydmila, Rohfek, and Kiptani huddled in deep in conversation. I strained to hear, but Mom's hand tugged my arm and pulled me through the door into the corridor. I winced. A bead of sweat trickled down the side of my face. I'd probably get a lecture about not being so obvious when eavesdropping. "What? Was I doing something wrong?"

"No, no. I wondered what you think of Petrella's proposal."

"Even if I didn't hate the Loks as much as you, I abhor it. Sini is like a sister to me. She's too young to be used as a pawn in interstellar politics. Especially like this. Forced into a marriage in which she could never be happy. Surely, there are better ways than this to secure the sihlcon chips from Tamok." My blood pressure rose. "And for Sini to produce an heir."

I paused as Commandant Lydmila and Admiral Kiptani exited the conference chamber. I watched them walk together down the corridor, disappointed that they hadn't gone on record as opposing the marriage. Zhun'Mar respected both, and their opposition might have swayed him to consider alternatives or at least to delay a decision until after the Tamok had returned to Tamok.

After they were out of hearing range, I continued. "Thanks to their refusal to speak, Sini is the only person who can put an immediate stop to this lunacy by telling her father that she won't agree to the marriage. Zhun'Mar loves her too much to refuse her."

"You know her better than anyone," Mom said. "Do you think that she'll do it?"

Pain seared my gut. "If Zhun'Mar asks her to marry Fiotr, Sini will do her duty to her father and agree. She's lived her whole life knowing that the Archonan wish Zhun'Mar had married one of them instead of Mirae. She's spent a lifetime trying to show them that she has no mental or physical defects. She wants to succeed her father. She won't give the Archonan Assembly any new reasons to question her ability to inherit the throne."

"Just as you struggle against the prejudice of those who don't want you to become Lord Chancellor because of your Earther blood." Mom shook her head. "Sometimes I think Zhun'Mar, Mirae, and I should never have returned from Earth. You and Sini could have been happy there; and Ghaeah knows I would have been happy to remain with your father. Here I fear that you each and Sini will spend a lifetime bearing unasked for burdens that your parents placed on your backs."

I'd never heard Mom express such dark thoughts. "I must consult with Vision. I think the time has come for Mirae and me to lessen one of those burdens."

The bitterness in Mom's voice caused a shiver to run down my spine. Without saying another word, she unexpectedly turned and headed in the direction of her chambers. Normally, she would have given me a brief hug and then walked away. She must be rattled because the presence of the Tamok in the Castel brought back painful memories. I sure was.

"Master Kuinsi," a voice said behind me.

I turned. A tall, sinewy a Vhirko corporal stood at attention. "Yes," I replied.

"Princess Siniastra requests your presence in the palestra. Follow me." The Vhirko spun without waiting for a reply and walked down the corridor.

I'd been around Vhirko long enough not to be insulted by what in others would be considered rude behavior. I hustled in her wake. We turned into a long public corridor filled with government workers. It was easy to discern the hardworking KaNoa walking as if on a mission from the Archonan functionaries who sashayed while babbling in their communicator-mics.

After several centi we reached an arched muhrwood door with a gold inlay of the symbol of the Arvor monarchy, a gnarled grapevine with five canes bearing leaves and tight clusters of shirnaz grapes. I'd been through this door many times. It opened to the Arvor private quarters.

An armed Vhirko stood on each side of the door, each with her right hand on the hilt of the laser knife on the right side of her belt and her left hand on the hilt of the laser knife on the belt's left side. Directly in front of the door a Vhirko lieutenant stood at rigid attention. The Vhirko I followed stopped two paces from the lieutenant. With her back to me, she made hand signals to the lieutenant before she spoke. "I am to accompany Master Kuinsi to meet with Princess Siniastra."

The lieutenant nodded and she and the Vhirko who'd accompanied me walked to the palm scanner in the center of the door. They laid their palms on the scanner, stepped back. The door slid into the wall. "Proceed," the lieutenant said.

The palestra is at far end of the private quarters, so we had to walk the length of the corridor. Anyone who has not been in the Arvor private quarters would be surprised by the lack of ostentation. The corridors and ceilings are painted ivory and the granite floor is a slightly lighter shade of ivory. No artwork decorated the corridor walls, and unlike the golden chandeliers in the public areas, recessed illuminants provided dim, but adequate, lighting.

The Vhirko opened a door at the end of the corridor and warm air rushed out. I entered the vaulted-ceiling palestra with sienna stuccoed-walls and ceiling. Even though her head was lowered, I recognized Sini in her ivory leotard squatting on a mat in the center of the palestra with her head lowered and stretching her bare arms in my direction. I glanced at the mats, ropes, and weights that cluttered the wooden-planked floor. "Sorry. Your Vhirko said you wanted to see me. I assumed you were finished with your workout. I can wait outside until you're finished?"

"Oh, Kuinsi, don't be silly," Sini said in a softer version of Mirae's scratchy voice. "You've seen me sweat before. Besides, I'm almost finished. Just some simple stretching to cool down. We can talk while I'm doing that."

She sat on the mat and stretched her long wiry legs in front of her. Her slender fingers grabbed underneath her knees and she bent her torso forward until forehead touched her knees. Her long blond hair fell forward and engulfed her face.

My neck and shoulders ached merely from watching Sini's contortions. I bent my neck back and rolled my head from side to side, my idea of stretching. It's a good thing that I'm a legist and don't have to worry about engaging in combat. With my inflexible and non-athletic build, I wouldn't be able to make through the simplest Vhirko workout let alone face anyone in physical combat.

The last rays of afternoon sunlight streamed through the palestra's ceiling windows. I stopped the rolling of my head. Sini normally attends Royal Council meetings and undoubtedly wanted to know what happened at the meeting. "You were the topic of discussion at today's meeting," I said softly.

Sini straightened her back and took a deep breath before lying on her back to stare at the ceiling. "I know. Father asked me not to attend because of the topic," she said in a flat tone. "The Archonan Assembly wants me to marry Fiotr Lok and prove I can produce an heir."

I thought of the days when we were children and played carefree and happy in the Rwohn vineyards. I wished things could have remained that way forever, unstained by Archonan machinations and galactic politics. "You may need to produce an heir at some point. But I see no reason why you should marry the son of the Tamok whose knife sliced off your father's ring finger."

Sini wiped the palms of her hands on the front of her leotard. "Before the Council meeting, we had a family meeting to discuss Petrella's proposal. Father said it was an opportunity to end deka-loops of mistrust and hatred on both sides. That we must have a secure alliance with Tamok to ensure so that they never again turn against us. He said no price was too high to pay to prevent the Radani from ever again exploiting Tamok insecurity about Tirano's intentions. That his duty, and mine, compelled agreement."

She wiped the corner of her eye with a finger. I couldn't tell whether she wiped away a drop of sweat or a tear. "I've never seen Mother react like she did. She started screaming that Father didn't have the slightest idea of what he asked. Said she would never consent to me marrying Mhorg's son.

"Father told her to calm down. That Fiotr was nothing like Mhorg. That he was an honorable man who would make a fine son-in-law."

Sini's sky-blue eyes tried to remain expressionless; I knew she fought back tears. "That seemed to enrage Mother even more. She clenched her fists so hard I thought her veins would explode. She said that it didn't matter if Fiotr was the nicest person this side of the Black Cavities. That the marriage was unthinkable. She vowed she would do whatever was necessary to prevent it. I've never seen her so angry. I'm afraid of what she might try to do. Once she sets her mind to something, nothing can stop her."

I pulled Sini to her feet and hugged her, not bothered for once by her sticky sweat. She leaned her head against the top of my and clung to me with her warm arms.

"Damn Petrella and damn the Archonan Assembly," I said not trying to conceal my anger. "Why did wait until yesterday to spring this on us. I don't trust her or them. There's something else going on that we aren't aware of."

Sini released her embrace and stepped back. "I viewed Petrella's implant archives that she sent Father. She was unaware of Mhorg and Bhradvin's treachery and remains embarrassed by it. She wants to avoid any future treachery so that Tirano and Tamok can stand united against the Radani."

I shook my head. "I still don't trust her. Not Bhradvin's widow. She's not doing this out of the goodness of her heart. She has to be seeking some personal benefit. I'm sure she's just like Bhradvin and sees some way to gain enormous wealth for herself and that idiot son of hers, Loik."

Sini plopped on a bench under the palestra's windows and leaned her head against the wall. For several milli neither of us spoke. Finally, I asked the question that I was afraid I already knew the answer to. "What are you going to do?"

"I've trained my whole life to accept the burdens of ruling, no matter how unpleasant or distasteful. But this is worse than anything I ever expected." Her lips quivered. "But Father is correct. No matter how mad Mother may be, his duty and mine compel us to accept."

My heart ached. This marriage would cheat her of her youth and her innocence. I hated to see her sense of duty rob her of any hope of happiness. "Oh, Sini," I said softly blinking back tears.

"Don't look so sad," she said with a thin smile. "I'm counting on you being strong. I need your support if I am to make it through this. Promise to always stand by me, as my dearest friend. No matter what happens."

"You know you don't have to ask. I could never, would never, do anything else."

I wanted to bring a smile to her face, and knew how. "Besides, you always promised that only wines from my vineyard would be served at your wedding. I'm holding you to that promise."

Sini laughed, dabbed her eyes with her fingers. "I should have known that the first thing you'd think of would be your wine."

Her expression turned serious. She rose and whispered in my ear. "I'm not supposed to tell anyone, but Father confided that he intends to issue the banns at tonight's banquet. Will you sit next to me and offer the betrothal toast? I'll need a bottle of your wine next to me if I'm to keep a smile on my face tonight."

I gave her hand a squeeze. "I know the perfect wine to serve for a betrothal toast. A wine the Tamok will never forget."

-2-

Banquet Hall

Arvor Castel

Planet Tirano

I stared at the barrel-vaulted ceiling of the banquet hall and listened to the festive songs the KaNoa musicians played on their four-string guitars, wooden panpipes, and bombo drum. In accordance with Tiranoan tradition, the circular head table where the Tiranoan and Tamok leaders would sit was placed on the dais between two rectangular tables: one on the right for the Tiranoan guests and one on the left for the Tamok guests. Tradition also dictated that the Tiranoans arrive first, followed by the Tamok guests. I hoped the Tamok would arrive soon. With their typical arrogance, they'd kept everyone waiting for fifteen centi.

I walked to place at the head table where Sini and I would sit, and for at least the fifth time in five centi, I wrapped my hand around the bottle of wine to see if it remained at the proper temperature. After I left Sini's palestra, I'd selected a special wine to accompany my betrothal toast: the spicy varietal called zinfandel derived from the rootstock and cuttings Mom had brought back from Earth. Mom allocated three rows of her Rwohn vineyard as mine to tend. Two loops ago I'd harvested enough crop to vinify two barrels for personal use. Earlier this evening in an attempt to establish a cordial relationship with Fiotr, I had a Vhirko deliver one bottle to Fiotr as a gift. More bottles would be served with the betrothal toast.

"You fidget just like your father. Always worrying that something will happen to spoil the zinfandel," Mom said from behind me. "But don't worry. Your father would love your zinfandel even if it's not the perfect temperature."

I turned and smiled at Mom. She looked exquisite with her ivory skin and long, glossy black hair set off by her single-shouldered, scarlet trumpet dress. No wonder my father had fallen in love with her.

"This zinfandel may be the only thing that helps Sini make it through tonight." I glanced at the circular table on the dais where Zhun'Mar and Mirae sat. "I'm afraid though it won't help Mirae's mood. She's refused to speak since she arrived. Not even the music has softened her expression. She just sits there with that stone-faced Vhirko glare."

"You don't have to be a Sibyl to divine that her mood's as black as the black gown she's wearing," Mom responded. "I hope at some point she can forgive Zhun'Mar."

I followed Mom's eyes as they fixed on Admiral Kiptani sitting on Mirae's left. Kiptani sat stiffly in his dress whites. "I don't know which is making Admiral Kiptani more uncomfortable," she said. "Sitting next to Mirae's black cloud or the unwanted prospect of spending an evening with the Tamok."

I flicked my head at Count Rohfek who sat to the right of Zhun'Mar. Rohfek popped a small piece of fried meat in his mouth and chewed in tiny bites. I chuckled. "The thought of spending a night with the Tamok must be bothering Lord Chancellor Rohfek too. The more nervous he is the more he eats, and that's at least the tenth qhal gizzard he's eaten." Rohfek licked the grease off his fat fingers and reached for another gizzard.

Lydmila stood two steps behind Zhun'Mar, the traditional post of the Commandant of the Vhirko Brigade during a state ceremony. She too looked uncomfortable at the prospect of spending an evening with the Tamok. She had been Tarnlot's personal Vhirko guard during Colonel Nhoth's insurrection. She couldn't look forward to enduring the presence of the families of Tarnlot's murderers. But no matter how distasteful, as a Vhirko she would honor her duty to insure that no harm came to the Tamok while they were under the flag of parley.

The mood of the head table must have been contagious because the musicians began playing a somber song about a maiden whose lover died fighting the Radani at the Battle of Phargon. "Unless you and Vision figured a way out of this mess, this may be the most strained betrothal banquet in the history of Tirano. Not one person at our table can disguise their dislike at being here."

"Mirae and I had a long discussion after the Council meeting about matters we should have faced long ago," she said. "We agreed she should meet with Fiotr. It may have been difficult for her, but I'm sure he will heed what she told him and decline to proceed with the betrothal."

Mom looked toward Mirae and grimaced. "If not, I fear the result of what Mirae will feel compelled to do tonight. It might not be possible to stop the harm that will result."

"Don't be so dramatic, Mother. What harm could Mirae possibly inflict? Commandant Lydmila's standing at her back and two squads of Vhirko will be between her and the Tamok."

"For the well-being of all, pray to Ghaeah that we never have to find out."

I wondered what Mom meant. Did she really think Mirae would single-handedly attack the Tamok? Before I could ask, Lydmila leaned and whispered into Zhun'Mar's ear. Zhun'Mar stood and pulled on the sleeve of his ivory gown with the Golden Vines embroidered on the left shoulder. "Commandant Lydmila has informed me that Overlady Petrella will arrive momentarily. Please take your assigned seats."

"Open the door on my command," Lydmila's alto voice barked. The Vhirko squads on each side of her snapped to attention and placed their hands on the laser knives on each side of their belts. The guard on the flank of each squad marched across the marble floor and stood next to the wooden doors. Before they were ordered to open the doors, the doors flew open and a squad of muscled, gray-clad, black-booted Tamok warriors burst into the hall. Each held a drawn laser broadsword in his hands. A second squad with even larger and more muscled bodies entered, followed by Petrella in a tight sapphire gown with her star stone pendant hanging above her cleavage. Her long brunette hair bounced on her bare shoulders as she strode into the hall. She halted in front of the dais and the second squad formed a protective circle around her.

I wondered why the dramatic entrance and then noticed that Petrella carried an uncorked bottle of wine. I squinted at the bottle's insignia. It was a bottle of my zinfandel. _How had Petrella obtained a bottle of my wine_?

"What is the meaning of this affront?" Lydmila shouted. She nodded to the Vhirko squad on her right, then the squad on her left. The squads dashed to the front of the dais and formed a double line between the head table and the Tamok. The Vhirko drew their laser knives.

"Tamok sheath weapons," Lydmila commanded. "Does Tamok knowingly violate the flag of parley and wish to feel the wrath of the Vhirko?"

Petrella's hawk-like eyes slowly pierced every Tiranoan face in the room, including the musicians who cowered along the wall. She ended with me. My heart beat faster as her brown eyes lingered on me. "Do not speak to me of the flag of parley, Vhirko," she said in a harsh voice. "The duplicity of Tirano is well known. The whole galaxy knows the story of how Mirae and the father of the one called Kuinsi tricked the great Mhorg and my husband to their deaths on Earth. How they stole the treasure trove of vines that Bhradvin and Mhorg were transporting to Tamok. How Zhun'Mar used that wealth to seed the Encircling Belts.

"Nonetheless, we in good faith sold our sihlcon to you. Now we learn the results of our good faith."

Petrella lifted the bottle for all to see. "Tiranoan duplicity has murdered Fiotr. This bottle of poison wine was found in his chambers. The last to see him before he was found dead . . ." She paused and examined every face at the head table, lingering again on me.

Convinced that she would accuse me, my heart almost burst out of my chest. She raised her arm and pointed her index finger. "Mirae."

All eyes turned to Mirae. Her expression did not change. She shook her head once, slowly, her cobalt-blue eyes unblinking.

Petrella's eyes remained fixed on Mirae. "My son Loik went to Fiotr's chamber to accompany him here. When Loik entered, he found Fiotr collapsed and dying on the floor. Two glasses were on the table. One empty, one full." She raised the bottle of wine over her head. "The biotox in it corresponds to that my physician found present in Fiotr."

Petrella lowered the bottle, turned to Zhun'Mar. "Can there be any doubt? All know of Mirae's opposition to the marriage. She poisoned this bottle and then poured two glasses. Fiotr drank his. She did not."

Zhun'Mar rose from his chair, raised his tall frame to its full height. He looked at each of us at the head table. I sensed reassuring certainty in his expression. Zhun'Mar then directed his gaze at Petrella and set his jaw. "We have no doubt," his deep voice boomed. He stared unblinking at Petrella.

No one spoke for what seemed like several centi. Only the heavy breathing of the Tamok warriors could be heard in the hall. Zhun'Mar broke the silence. "Mirae is Vhirko. If she wished to kill Fiotr, she would not have used a coward's method." He tilted his head toward Mirae, then back to Petrella. "She would have used her bare hands."

Zhun'Mar nodded at Lydmila. "Order your Vhirko to put down their weapons."

Lydmila clenched her fists at her side, hatred of the Tamok etched on her face. For a moment I thought she might not obey. I tightened my grip on my pendant. Its warmth indicated I'd made contact with Vision and began transmitting a record of what was happening in the Banquet Hall.

"Follow the command of your King," Lydmila ordered in a unenthusiastic monotone. In unison, the Vhirko squads replaced their knives in their belts, but each Vhirko kept a hand on the handle of each of her knives. The Tamok warriors did not move.

"Now," Zhun'Mar said, his voice lowered to a conciliatory tone, "will you tell your warriors to sheath their weapons? Before blood is shed."

Petrella formed a mocking grin and shook her head. "Do I look like a fool? Their weapons will be sheathed only when we have reached the safety of Tamok. We expect the Encircling Belts' masers to be deactivated so we may pass through safely. Any attempt to hinder our departure with the body of Fiotr will be dealt with in kind. If blood is to be shed, it will not be Tamok blood."

She turned to Count Rohfek. "Lord Chancellor," a small smile creased her face. "Please advise your King of the requirements of the Vharsa Protocols. Tirano has ten spins to deliver the murderer Mirae and any accomplices to Tamok for retribution or face the consequences."

She returned her gaze to Zhun'Mar and set the bottle of wine on the table that had been reserved for the Tamok. "I leave this. You may drink the rest if you wish." She whirled and strode out of the hall. A squad of Tamok warriors encircled her.

After she had passed through the doorway, the other squad of warriors backpedaled out of the hall before turning and marching down the hallway. The pounding of their heavy black boots on the marble floor resounded throughout the Castel.

Pandemonium broke out in the banquet hall. Everyone on the dais, except Mirae, spoke at the same time. Even though I was relieved that the confrontation had ended without bloodshed, my heart continued to pound against his chest. I released my pendant and leaned on a chair. _My wine, poisoned, how?_ I crossed the room and picked up the bottle. I carefully lifted it to my nose, sniffed its contents. _That can't be right. My nose must be affected by all the excitement._ I sniffed again. Same result. This wasn't the wine I'd sent to Fiotr.

-3-

Kuinsi's Chamber

Arvor Castel

Planet Tirano

A deci later I was in my living chamber in the Castel when my companel beeped with a summons to proceed immediately to a Royal Council emergency meeting. Even though I'd attended numerous Royal Council meetings, I'd never been asked to speak, and never had spoken, to the Council. That was about to change. The summons stated that I would be required to answer any questions that might be addressed to me.

It didn't help my nerves that my KaNoa housekeeper, Lani, had left me a message that a rumor circulating the Castel was that I was the murderer. According to the rumor I had uncorked a bottle of wine, poisoned it, re-corked it, and had a Vhirko deliver it to Fiotr so that when Mirae arrived they could share it while they talked. According to the rumor, I'd calculated that Fiotr would be the only one who drink the poison because, as a Vhirko, Mirae would not drink any wine or other alcohol. The rumor sounded plausible enough that I worried some would actually believe it to be true.

With the rumor roiling my mind, I thought my legs would buckle before I could walk through the door into the Royal Council Chamber. The members of the Council were already seated around the circular muhrwood table in the center of the room and stared at me as I entered. I couldn't stop my hands from trembling.

Lord Chancellor Rohfek rose and waddled his egg-shaped body to meet me. He wrapped his fat fingers around my trembling hand; a friendly smile creased his jowls. "I'm glad you could join us," he said. "I'm sorry it has to be under these trying circumstances. I hope you can help us get to the bottom of this matter. Please, take the seat next to your mother and we can start."

As I took the seat and Rohfek returned to his, I quickly glanced around the table to determine whether the Council members acted as if they had heard the rumor. I wasn't comforted. Zhun'Mar stared without expression at the table in front of him. Normally, he would have given me a reassuring nod. Mirae sat to Zhun'Mar's right, biting her lower lip and looking at Sini on her right. Lydmila stood behind Zhun'Mar, her thick body taut. She didn't try to hide her scowl when she saw me glance at her. Count Rohfek plopped in his chair at Zhun'Mar's left with a half-eaten creamy tart on a plate in front of him. Next to the Count, Admiral Kiptani held his shoulders stiff and erect, his hands crossed on the table. Not even Mom gave me her usual smile.

"Let's begin," Count Rohfek said. He examined the notepad he held in his hand. "Admiral Kiptani, what is the status of the Tamok departure."

Kiptani rose from his chair, his swarthy complexion contrasting to his white duty uniform. "The convoy departed at ninth deci. Empyrean boosters were engaged once they exited our perimeter. Our space probes have verified that their convoy has headed toward Tamok."

Rohfek tapped his notepad. "Commandant Lydmila, has your investigation found any additional facts?"

Lydmila's black, brooding eyes focused menacingly on me. "Only that the bottle of wine was the one that Kuinsi sent Lord Fiotr."

I swallowed hard and a brief smile crossed Lydmila's face, as if she had hoped I would show my discomfort. I tried to focus and realized that I should have anticipated that she'd be happy to have me found to be Fiotr's murderer, not Mirae. If I was solely responsible, it would prevent any taint on the reputation of the Vhirko.

"If I may continue," Rohfek said in his unctuous tone. "Who delivered the wine on behalf of Master Kuinsi?"

"He gave it to one of Princess Siniastra's Vhirko guards," Lydmila replied. "The guard brought it to me. I personally carried it to Fiotr's quarters and handed it to his doorman."

Rohfek puckered his lips, nodded. "So we know it could not have been tampered with from the time Master Kuinsi gave it to the Vhirko until it reached Fiotr's servant. Thank you Commandant. Your usual fine job."

Even though it didn't help prove my innocence, I couldn't fault with Rohfek's reasoning. The Vhirko were beyond reproach. A lifetime of training and discipline ensured a Vhirko's unwavering loyalty to the royal family. No Vhirko would have tampered with the wine.

Rohfek turned his head toward Zhun'Mar. "Sire, if I may beg your indulgence, I have a few questions for the Consort."

Zhun'Mar slumped in his chair. Without taking his gaze from the table, he nodded.

"Your Highness. If we are to determine what occurred, I must ask why you visited Fiotr."

Mirae's expression remained stone-faced, but she did pull on her earlobe for a few milli before she spoke. "I went to try to talk him out of the marriage. I told him Zhun'Mar had convinced Siniastra to agree, but there were things Fiotr should know before he accepted."

She paused and glanced at Mom. Mom's neck tensed and she gave Mirae an almost imperceptible nod. "I told him why I opposed the marriage. I stressed that he could honorably decline the marriage by acknowledging that Zhun'Mar had shown Tirano's good faith by agreeing to the treaty's marriage proposal."

"And what did Lord Fiotr say?" Rohfek asked.

"That he would consider everything I had told him. He didn't say so directly, but I have no doubt he too agreed that the marriage should not occur."

Rohfek glanced at the notepad in front of him. "Did you see the bottle of wine?"

Mirae nodded. "It sat unopened on a table."

"Did either of you remark on it?"

Mirae stared blankly at Rohfek. "I told him that Kuinsi's wine was something special and unique, just like Siniastra. Not a mere commodity to be bought and sold." She lowered her eyes.

"Thank you, your Highness. That's all," Rohfek said. He stared again at his notepad. I noticed some of the tenseness leave Mom's shoulders.

"Now a few questions for Master Kuinsi," Count Rohfek said.

Every set of eyes in the room converged on me. I didn't think my heart could beat any faster and my breath became shallow. "Yes, yes sir."

"Last night you said the wine in the bottle that Petrella bought to the Banquet Hall was not the wine you sent to Fiotr. Why did you think that?"

I straightened my back, hoping it would make me appear taller and more truthful. "The wine's bouquet. The wine I had delivered to Lord Fiotr was zinfandel from my vineyard. Its nose is a unique blackberry and vanilla aroma. The wine in the bottle had no bouquet, it was plonk from the Brehon Valley."

Rohfek cocked his head and arched his eyebrows. Behind him Lydmila snorted. "What a joke," Lydmila said with a sneer on her flat face. "You pretend to be able to distinguish wine merely by smell in an effort to hide your guilt."

Mom jumped to her feet. "How dare you accuse my son of poisoning Fiotr," she said in a cold, measured tone. "He brought the bottle to me immediately. I too smelled its bouquet. It was not his zinfandel."

Lydmila jutted her chin. "How touching. The mother protecting her child."

Zhun'Mar raised his head. Anger filled his eyes. "Enough you two," his bass voice boomed. "We're not here to fight among ourselves. We all know Kuinsi sent the wine to Fiotr. I will vouch for Kuinsi's ability to distinguish varietals, as well as for his innocence in this matter. It's obvious that the wine Kuinsi sent was exchanged for the poisoned wine after its delivery to Fiotr's doorman. That means it had to be an internal Tamok plot that murdered Fiotr. A plot designed to tarnish my and Tirano's honor and turn the galaxy against us."

Mom sat down, placed her hand on my arm. My heart slowed, grateful for her and Zhun'Mar's support. Sini gave me a brief, reassuring smile.

"We have no choice then," Lydmila said. "We must declare war to save our honor. Send the Armada to wipe every Tamok off the face of the galaxy."

Kiptani's face looked like he'd just sucked a sour goh fruit. "Commandant," he said, "you know the Armada doesn't have the capacity to wage the massive offensive deployment it would take to invade Tamok. The past twenty loops we've succeeded in seeding the Encircling Belts with enough maser blasters to create an impenetrable defensive wall. That's our protection. The Armada should remain in deep perimeter patrol to monitor any movement of Tamok fleet in our direction. Let's not respond rashly to what appears to be an internal Tamok power struggle. Let the Tamok sort out their own affairs."

Zhun'Mar rose from his chair. "It doesn't matter if this is an internal Tamok struggle or not. Without the new generation of chips, the Belts' blasters will fail and we will have no defensive wall. And as long as I remain on the Golden Vine Throne, the Tamok will not sell us the sihlcon. I will never again be able to function effectively in intergalactic affairs."

He held up his right hand. "Just as I can never regain this finger that Mhorg sliced off my hand, I will never regain the credibility with the Tamok that was tore from me by Fiotr's death.

"Contrary to Petrella's tirade, the Vharsa Protocols are clear on what I must do to restore Tirano's credibility." He took the Golden Vine Ring off his index finger. "I must abdicate and submit the investigation of my and Mirae's role in Fiotr's death to the Galactic Judiciary. Hopefully, after the Judiciary declares our innocence the Tamok will agree to sell us the sihlcon we so desperately need."

He handed the Ring to Sini. "I hereby abdicate in favor of Siniastra. Mirae and I will remain in isolation at Brehon Compound until Galactic Judiciary informs us of where we will be interrogated. My last request is that all of you serve Queen Siniastra as faithfully as you have served me."

Zhun'Mar held out his arm for Mirae and they strode out of the room before any one could speak or act. I looked at Count Rohfek, thinking he would do something. Rohfek's mouth gaped open, and for once speechless.

Even though as a legist I'd studied the Vharsa Protocols and knew that abdication had always been an option, I was as stunned as Count Rohfek. When one offers a flag of parley, one vouches by his honor that no harm would come to those asked to parley. If harm comes to any who accepted the offer of parley, the party who offered parley would thereafter be _persona non grata_ to all other planets who had signed the Vharsa Protocols. The _non grata_ status could only be removed by turning over the person or persons who caused the harm to Galactic Judiciary. If a Galactic Judiciary investigation could not determine the person or persons who caused the harm, two options existed: reparations or abdication of the head of state. Either would acknowledge that the harming person or persons could not be determined and that a penalty must nonetheless be incurred for such failure of protection during parley and in determining guilt.

Because no instance of a head of state abdicating had ever occurred, I'd figured that abdication would be discussed by the Council, the merits debated, and then rejected. But Zhun'Mar, Mirae, and Sini hadn't waited for counsel. They'd decided on their own.

Sini stood, raised her frame to its full height. "I hope all of you will honor my father's request. I know it is traditional that Council members proffer their resignations. That will not be necessary. I want all of you to remain on the Council." She turned her gaze to me, gave him another brief smile. "The only change to the Council will be the addition of Master Kuinsi as a member as Associate Lord Chancellor."

_Why put me on the Council?_ I wanted to scream. I wasn't ready to be a member of the Royal Council. Unlike Sini who had trained her whole life to be Queen, I needed a lot more seasoning before I'd be qualified to assume the responsibility of making decisions that would affect the fate of Tirano.

Rohfek coughed to draw attention to himself. "Your Highness, I move that Master Kuinsi be appointed to the Royal Council."

Admiral Kiptani peered at me. "Seconded," he said without expression.

"All in favor," Sini said.

A chorus of "ayes" followed, although Lydmila remained silent.

Before I had time to say anything, Mom stood and bowed to Sini. "My Path has always been joined with Zhun'Mar and Mirae's. If they no longer serve, I too am compelled to resign from the Council. I ask your leave to do so. You will be served well by the Sibyl training of my son."

"No," Lydmila shouted. "The Council needs a real Sibyl, especially now." She pointed a finger at me. "Not him. A Sibyl wannabe."

I tried to open his mouth to agree but no words formed. Lydmila was right. I had received Sibyl schooling and could access the Sibyl computers, but I wasn't a Sibyl. Sini would need Mom's knowledge, experience, and Sibyl abilities.

Rohfek held up the back of his hand to silence Lydmila. "Even though the High Sibyl has traditionally served on the Council, Caykondra is within her rights. We cannot force anyone to remain on the Royal Council. I for one have confidence in Master Kuinsi's abilities and look forward to serving with him

He craned his head and held Lydmila's gaze. "Our duty is clear. We must ensure a smooth transition to the reign of Queen Siniastra. As Zhun'Mar said, we must put aside our personal feelings and do what is best for Tirano."

"Thank you Lord Chancellor," Siniastra said. "Please take the appropriate measures to inform the Archonan Assembly of what has transpired. We will meet again tomorrow at sixth deci to formulate a formal reply to Tamok."

She turned to Mom. "High Sibyl, would you please accompany me? My parents wish to speak to you before they leave."

Sini walked out of the room with Mom. A sudden sense of being alone seized me. I would no longer receive the counsel of Zhun'Mar who had treated me like a son. Mom would now spend most of her time at the Sibyl Compound immersed solely in Sibyl affairs. And Sini was the Queen, no longer a childhood playmate. I couldn't rely any longer on my lifelong supports.

"Congratulations." Admiral Kiptani's voice pulled me out of my thoughts. He stood beside me. "Sini needs someone on the Council her age that she's comfortable in confiding to." He shook my hand.

"I'd like to talk more, but you'll have to pardon me. I have to meet with my senior officers to discuss the status of the Tamok convoy. However, meet me in the Grand Concourse in a deci. I need to take you to Belts Control Headquarters and register you as a Council member." He strode out of the chamber before I could respond.

Lydmila stepped to my side and blocked my view of Count Rohfek. "I'll be watching every move you make," she whispered in my ear. "One wrong step and I will personally destroy you, Earther boy." She pivoted and marched out of the chamber.

An unexpected sobering poured through me. I'd known my whole life that most, if not all, Archonan, didn't accept me because of my Earth blood. They knew little of Earth. Earth was a planet on the other side of the Black Cavities, and only Mom, Zhun'Mar, and Mirae had ever passed through the Cavities and returned. What they did know was that Earthers weren't Archonan, and therefore, had to be inferior. My father had remained on Earth, and Archonan purists felt Mom should not have returned with me in her womb. I'd never suspected, though, that a Vhirko would have such purist prejudices, especially the Vhirko who had been Tarnlot's personal bodyguard. Surely, she knew the stories of how happy Tarnlot had been on Earth and should have good feelings about Earth.

If any member of the Royal Council would have such prejudices, I'd assumed it was Count Rohfek. He'd never treated me unfairly, but as former Speaker of the Archonan Assembly he associated with many I knew to be purists, including Rheginahld Nhoth who now was next in line for the Golden Vine Throne until Sini produced an heir. I had no idea how to deal with the purists on the Council constantly trying to discredit me.

I clenched my fist and banged the table. Count Rohfek looked up from his note and arched his eyebrows. My face reddened.

"Don't let her get under your skin, son," Count Rohfek said gently. "Once she knows she can upset you, you'll have no peace." A smile crossed his pudgy cheeks. "I've dealt with her for dekas. Let me run interference for you for the next few spins until you get your feet on the ground. I'm sure that she'll relent when she knows you better."

Relief rushed through me, along with a dose of guilt about my ill thoughts about Count Rohfek. A purist would never make such an offer. A purist would prefer to see me fail, and would help Lydmila destroy me.

"Thanks," I said. Count Rohfek would be a formidable guardian. He could blunt any accusations Lydmila could make.

He puckered his lips. "I assume the Admiral will take you to Belts Control before tomorrow's Council meeting,"

I nodded. "In a deci."

"Good," he said. "Be sure to get some rest tonight, young man. Tomorrow will be another long day."

-4-

Kuinsi's Chamber

Arvor Castel

Planet Tirano

I returned to my chamber before meeting Admiral Kiptani. When I entered my chamber I crossed the room to look out my chamber's dormer window and to reflect on all that had happened. Against the blackness of the night sky I stared at the three translucent meteoroid rings that form the Encircling Belts. Each ring alone would have been a beautiful sight, but the variegation created by the combination of the scarlet, cerulean, and golden amber rings resulted in one of the galaxy's natural wonders.

But the Belts represented more than a natural wonder. Thanks to the maser blasters seeded in them, the Belts also provided an impenetrable barrier. Unless Belts Control Headquarters transmitted the codes that deactivated the masers and created a flight path through the Belts, any object that tried to penetrate the space around Tirano would be obliterated. All of the current turmoil evidenced Zhun'Mar's wisdom in spending most of the defense budget of the past two deka-loops to seed the Belts. Without that barrier, cluster-bomb raiders could wreak havoc on Tirano as Radani raiders had on Phargon during the Radani War. Unfortunately, many of the current sihlcon chips were near the end of their lifespan and some of the chips had already crashed

My com-link buzzed. Because only a few people I trusted could access my com-link, I reached to my ear and activated my comm-mic and holo projector.

The holo of a stout female in a long flowered dress appeared. "Hello, Lani," I said. I quickly glanced around to see if the chamber was clean. "Everything's perfect as always. How many times do I have to tell you don't need to call to check every time you clean."

"Oh, Master Kuinsi." Lani giggled, and I smiled. Even though Lani was old enough to be gray-haired, she still had the giggle of a school girl. "I need be extra careful now so that the chamber of a Royal Council member and the Associate Lord Chancellor is spotless. Who knows when some dignitary will visit? I don't want anyone to think I not be good housekeeper."

My jaw dropped. Lani always knows the latest Castel rumors, but how could she possibly know this. I hadn't been out of the meeting for more than ten centi, and no public announcement of my appointment had even been discussed.

My shock must have shown because she giggled again and then spoke. "Do you really think I have spent so many loops working in the Castel and wouldn't know something so big. Bye." She disconnected.

I couldn't help but chuckle. Lani called her rumor mill the KaNoa wireless, and at times it seemed more informed than the official Castel sources. KaNoa workers were so ubiquitous in the Castel that I, like most, didn't even notice their comings and goings. I hadn't even paid attention to the two KaNoa who entered the Royal Council Chamber after the meeting, and I'm sure Count Rohfek, Admiral Kiptani, and Lydmila didn't either. The KaNoa could easily have listened to what they discussed.

As a Council member, I decided I should tap Lani for more information from the KaNoa wireless. Even if some of the rumors were false, like my being the murderer, it could be beneficial to be aware of the rumors and to be able to counteract them when necessary.

I leaned my forehead against the window's cool glass. I'd always assumed that when Sini became Queen I'd be appointed to the Council, but not like this. I took a deep breath. But it had happened, like this. I vowed not to do anything in the next few spins that would embarrass Sini or give Lydmila any basis to undermine me, such as making Admiral Kiptani wait for me while I wallowed in self-pity.

*

I arrived five centi before the time I was scheduled to meet Admiral Kiptani. The Admiral was notorious for considering his subordinates late for a meeting if they didn't arrive at least three centi early. As I expected he arrived exactly four centi before we were to meet.

His long stride didn't slow as he neared. "Follow me," he said.

Given the late hour, the only other person in the Grand Concourse was a security guard stationed near the Concourse's main entrance. He glanced at us as we crossed the empty Grand Course and saluted the Admiral.

It took two of my strides for every one of the Admiral's and I almost had to jog to keep pace. I had no idea where Belts Control was in the Castel, even its location was classified. I figured it must be hidden somewhere in the bunkers beneath the Castel and hoped I could continue to keep up with the Admiral until we reached Belts Control.

I was almost out of breath before we reached the far end of the Concourse when the Admiral stopped at a door marked "Authorized Personnel Only." I'd walked by this door numerous times, but had never placed any significance on it because most doors in the Concourse have a similar sign.

Kiptani placed his hand on the door's palm scanner. "Kiptani. Security clearance, priority 1." The door dilated open.

The Admiral must have noticed my quizzical expression. "Sometimes it's best to hide something in the open where it would be least expected."

"But anyone could break in," I said.

"This door and the entire Belts Control complex, walls, floor, and ceiling, are constructed of the highest grade symplast. A direct hit by any known armed missile wouldn't penetrate. The construction of this room was the single most expensive item in the cost of the seeding of the Belts."

We passed through the door and it slid back into place. I looked around the windowless room the size of my chamber. Gray comprocessors lined the walls. A single Fleetman in a white uniform sat in front of a comconsole in the center of the room. When he saw the Admiral he stood and saluted.

The Admiral returned the salute. "Continue with your duties," he said.

I'd always assumed Belts Control would be a vast complex with hordes of personnel. I looked around but didn't see any other doors. "Is this the only room?" I asked.

The Admiral nodded. "The comprocessors are so advanced that the technician's sole duty is to reboot the comprocessors if they should shut down. Since it's a near statistical improbability that would occur, the assignment is one of the easiest in the Fleet."

"But who deactivates the Belts to permit passage?" I asked.

"Six people are authorized to transmit the order directly to the processors, and no order is implemented until verified by two of those six."

When he said nothing further, I assumed I was here to be authorized as one of the six. "So, what do I have to do to get authorization?"

He shook his head. "That's not why I brought you here. The six are in the Belts chain of command."

"If there's nothing I'd ever be needed for, then why did you have to bring me here?" I asked.

The Admiral gave me a half-smile. "Isn't it obvious?"

I shook my head. "Not to me."

"To register you with the entry door's palm scanner. If there's ever an attack or imminent attack on the Castel, the royal family, all Royal Council members and the Koah Commander are to assemble here for safety and to be available to plan any response to the attack."

_Ingenious,_ I thought.

"But be quick getting here," the Admiral continued. "The palm scanner deactivates one deci after the Sovereign is secured."

I arched my eyebrows. "What if someone is more than a deci from the Castel."

The Admiral pulled on his sleeve. "No one wanted to take the risk that one of those permitted entrance could be captured, divulge this location, and forced to open the door."

I nodded. "I understand. Lets hope it never comes to that."

"I agree," the Admiral replied. "Any other questions?"

I shook my head. I looked around the room. "Do you mind if I examine the comprocessors? Even in my Sibyl schooling, I never saw anything like this. I'd love to inspect them up close."

The Admiral thought a moment before he replied. "I see no reason why not. Take your time. I have another appointment. The Fleetman will process your palm scan and show you out when you're ready."

*

I stayed in Belts Control only a short time. The comprocessors' exteriors reflected their military purpose. I'd never seen casings that were so ruggedly constructed and felt certain they were made of the same symplast as the walls. After being in Belts Control, I felt secure that no enemy could shut down the protection of the Belts.

When I entered my quarters, I stared out my dormer window for a few moments before the rumblings in my stomach reminded me that I hadn't eaten since morning. I needed a comfort-style meal, and I knew how to fix something that would fit my needs.

I'd never seen my father; he'd remained on Earth when Mom, Zhun'Mar, and Mirae returned through the Black Cavity. Mom wanted me to know as much about him as possible, and one of the ways she did that was to teach me to cook his favorite meals. What he enjoyed most were impromptu meals he'd cook for Mom that were based upon what he called the 5 P's: pasta, polenta, potatoes, panini, and his favorite, pizza. As we fixed the meals, Mom would regale me with stories of how he'd chose one of the 5 P's and then rummage through whatever provisions he had available at his house and create a delicious meal. Tirano used different words for each of the P's, but I've always thought of them as the 5 P's. And of course when I was old enough, the meals were always served with Dad's favorite wine, zinfandel, the spicy varietal that Mom brought back from Earth.

I wanted something that was quick, so I chose pasta. I set a pot of water on the stove to boil. I opened my pantry and surveyed its contents. The easiest and fastest sauce, and Father's favorite, consisted of two ingredients: oil and garlic. I minced a couple cloves of garlic and dumped the garlic in some warmed olive oil. After I drained the pasta, I poured the oil and garlic over the pasta.

In a few milli I was sitting at the table, dipping a slice of crusty bread in the sauce and drinking a glass of spicy zin. After my second glass of zin I was so tired that I didn't bother to clean-up the table before I moseyed into my bedroom. I fell on the bed and stared out the window. I needed some sleep before facing tomorrow. I used one of my favorite relaxation techniques and concentrated on the Belts until I could discern their slow spin.

It worked. I closed my eyes and I welcomed sleep.

My pendant vibrated. A message sounded in my implant. _Vision has detected an unexpected surge in maser failure. Inform Belts Control immediately. Microprocessor down._

My eyes snapped open. I stared at the Belts. I saw nothing unusual, but the human eye wouldn't. Was this some Sibyl hocus-pocus nonsense to test me? But why? If it wasn't true and I contacted Belts Control, I'd lose all credibility with the Council.

I debated what to do. The only thing I could think of was to call Admiral Kiptani. The Admiral could contact Belts Control. If one of the microprocessors was down, he could have the Fleetman reboot it.

I stepped to my comconsole and entered the Admiral's call sign. The milli passed as I waited for a reply. I repeated the call with an urgent tag.

The Admiral appeared on my screen. He stood in an unlit vestibule in a white nightgown. He rubbed his eyes. "What's the meaning of this?" in a tone that could not be described as pleased.

I swallowed and hoped Kiptani would believe me. "Vision messaged me that she detected an unexpected surge in maser failure. That a microprocessor is down."

Kiptani stared at me blankly. "That's impossible. And if anything was wrong, I would have been notified immediately." He started to disconnect.

I held up hand. "Please. At least contact Belts Control. If there's no problem, we'll both be able to go back to sleep."

Kiptani nodded and linked me to his comconsole. "Contact Belts Control. Authorization Kiptani."

I watched the comconsole. A Fleetman's face appeared. "Yes, Admiral."

The Admiral gave me a sidelong glance. "My fellow Council member thought there might be something wrong with the functioning of one of the Belts."

"No sir," he replied. "Everything appears to be functioning properly. But I'll run some diagnostics and let you know if anything is amiss."

"Thanks," the Admiral replied. "That will be all."

He deleted the connection with Belts Control. "Now can we get some sleep?"

I felt too much like the Castel idiot to say anything other than, "Yes. Thanks for indulging me."

*

I was sound asleep when my comconsole sounded. I flicked on the screen. It was the Admiral. His face was contorted, but I couldn't tell if it was anger or sorrow. "A microprocessor malfunctioned briefly and quadrant of the Belts failed. A spiral missile attack obliterated Brehon Compound. There are no known survivors."

I began to cry like a child.

-5-

Royal Council Chamber

Arvor Castel

Planet Tirano

A deci later the Royal Council met. Admiral Kiptani spoke first. "Before the Queen arrives, let me tell what we have learned so far. At exactly 1.5 deci the Delta Quadrant of the Belts shut down even though the comprocessors displayed no outward signs of failure.. Five spiral missiles passed through Delta Quadrant and all struck Brehon Compound. Our satellite cameras show total obliteration of the Compound." He took a deep breath. "No survivors have been found, and none are expected."

"Perimeter patrols on both sides of the Belts detected no hostile ships in the area. As we all know, however, the Tamok use spiral missiles."

Count Rohfek fingers drummed the table. "What conclusions have you drawn?"

"At this point, no conclusions, just questions," Kiptani replied. "How could the Belts go down with the comprocessors signaling a warning? How could the hostile ship know to target Brehon Compound? Why did our patrols fail to detect the hostile ship? Why did Delta Quadrant reactivate after the strike?

"Thanks to Master Kuinsi's notification the Fleetman on duty scanned the comprocessor programs. All we know so far is that a virus somehow infected the comprocessor."

Lydmila paced behind the Royal Council table. "Rubbish. Can there be any doubt?" she asked. "The coincidences are too many to ignore. Only the Royal Council was aware that Zhun'Mar and Mirae would be at Brehon Compound. A new Council member gained access to Belts Control for the first time. He insisted on inspecting the comprocessors the same day the virus activated. And we all know what devious things are possible with a Sibyl pendant. And does anyone really believe he received a message from Vision? I would laugh at his lunacy if the consequences were not so horrible."

Rohfek stared at Lydmila. "Commandant," he said shaking his head. "How stupid do you think Kuinsi is? Even if he could somehow inserted a virus that shut down a quadrant of the Belts, why would he tell Admiral Kiptani about a malfunction? And most importantly, where would he obtain spiral missiles and how could he launch them?"

Kiptani rubbed his chin as if he were actually considering the plausibility of Lydmila's theory. "I agree. If Kuinsi did all this, why would he contact me?"

Lydmila's face reddened. "Am I the only one who sees obvious? The little Earther boy got scared. He was in cahoots with the Tamok and was afraid they would double cross him and bomb the Castel while the Belts were down. He became afraid he'd die. All he wanted to do was to save his little Earther ass."

In addition to the fact there wasn't a shred of truth in anything Lydmila said, her unmitigated bigotry set me in a rage. I shoved my chair back and bolted to my feet. "You seem to have forgotten that it was my father, an Earther, that Tarnlot entrusted with the knowledge that permitted Zhun'Mar, Mirae, and Mother return. That he cut the shoots they brought back to reestablish the Vine. And without the bubo immunity and the wealth provided from the wine from those vines, the Belts could never have been seeded."

I clenched my jaw and pointed a finger at Lydmila. "I could never, would never, permit the destruction of what my Earther father made possible. So, never, ever call me Earther boy in a derogatory manner again."

Lydmila's eyes narrowed and the corner of her mouth curled. She parted her lips to speak when the Chamber door swung open. Two Vhirko entered, followed by Siniastra. Two more Vhirko guarded Siniastra's back. Sini's eyes were blood shot eyes and her cheeks red, but instead of sorrow in those deep blue eyes, I saw only fury. A fury that matched mine.

Everyone at the table rose. Without acknowledging anyone, Siniastra pulled back the Golden Vine Throne and stood at the table. "I will make this brief. The Tamok must pay for the death of my parents. No quarter will be shown to them, or the traitor or traitors who helped them shut down the Belts for the launch of the spiral missiles.

"Commandant Lydmila and Lord Chancellor Rohfek, you two are in charge of finding the traitor. Admiral, you have until sixth deci today to prepare a plan for a retaliatory strike against Tamok." She turned to me. Her lips quivered. "Kuinsi, please make arrangements for the return of my parents' bodies. You were close to Father and would know his wishes."

"Your Highness," Kiptani said, an edge of concern in his tone. "We don't have enough -"

Siniastra's glare cut him off. "You have your orders. We meet again in less than three deci." She turned and left the room as quickly as she had entered.

Empathy raced through me. I could only imagine how I would feel if my mother had died in the attack. I too would have sought revenge, and I wouldn't deny Sini hers.

Rohfek rose. "You heard the Queen. We all have work to do. Meeting adjourned until sixth deci."

Rohfek and Kiptani scurried out the Chamber door. I finished his notes and stood. Lydmila blocked the door.

"I will use every available resource to find any and all evidence that you're the Belt-sabotaging traitor. When I do, I will relish the moment when I personally jam your head on the traitor's pike and plant it in Arvor Square."

I didn't like the way she was trying to intimidate me. With my heart pounding against my chest, I spoke. "I don't think you heard what the Queen said. You're to find the traitor or traitors, not indulge in your petty prejudice against me."

Lydmila snarled and stepped forward. She pressed her finger in my chest. Pain pierced through me and I grimaced. A satisfied smile creased her face. She turned and walked down the hallway.

I spent the next deci arranging for the return of Zhun'Mar and Mirae's remains. Zhun'Mar would not have wanted a formal cortege from Brehon Compound to the Castel, so a Vhirko honor guard would bring the remains directly to the Castel. After the condition of the bodies was ascertained, they would lie in state in either an open or unopened casket until the formal interment took place. I did not look forward to viewing the bodies and making that decision.

After these initial arrangements were completed, I started for my quarters. I changed my mind. If Lydmila was going to be antagonistic, I wanted to cement Count Rohfek as an ally. I'd thank Rohfek for standing up for him and ask for more of his advice on how to deal with Lydmila.

When I arrived at Rohfek's quarters, I reached to push the intercom screen. I pulled my hand back; the door was open a crack. Count Rohfek was notorious for screening all visitors. He always joked that he only permitted gourmands bearing bounty to pass through his portal. I couldn't imagine Rohfek ever leaving his door open so any one could enter unscreened, especially when a traitor might be roaming the Castel.

My heart skipped a beat. The traitor had broken into the Count's room and was attacking the Count. If the traitor had taken down the Belts, he could easily break into the Count's room. There wasn't time to find someone to help. I had to do what I could. I doubted I could succeed with a direct confrontation, so I'd have to sneak up on the traitor. Hopefully, with the help of the Count, the two of us could subdue the traitor.

I extended my hand, and as quietly as I could, pushed the door open enough for me to squeeze into the entry hall. I heard a harsh, raspy voice. "Tell me, Count. How did they become aware that the quadrant was down? You assured me that no one would detect the virus and ever discover what had happened. Now that they know it's there, they'll be able to remove it and we won't have a backdoor through the Belts."

I pressed my body closer to the door and stopped. Only one voice sounded like that, Petrella's. _How could she have gotten access to the Castel? Were she and Loik torturing the Count for information?_

"How was I to know that Kiptani would take that twirp Earther boy to the Control room just as the virus activated and that his Sibly pendant would sense the malfunction?" Count Rohfek replied with disgust. "Don't worry about the little twirp, though. He'll soon be out of the way. I'll plant enough evidence that Lydmila will be able to cut his head off in the Council Chamber. Then I'll convince Siniastra to send the Armada into your trap."

My knees buckled. I leaned against the wall for support. _Rohfek, traitor,_ my mind screamed in disbelief. I had to get out, tell everyone what was happening. Instead, fear numbed me and my legs wouldn't move.

"Don't fail this time if you want to be my consort," Petrella sneered. "You only had a small taste of the ecstasy I can give you. Think of spending night after night in my bed."

I heard the fizzle of the fading of a holo. Petrella and Loik weren't in the Count's room. They'd transmitted from somewhere close enough for a conversation with no time lag. That meant they hadn't transmitted from Tamok, and they had left Tirano on their ship. They had to still be on a ship, and it had to be within one jump of Tirano. _But how could they have managed to get close enough for instant communication without being detected by the Armada's security patrols?_

Footsteps headed across a room and a door closed. I leaned against the wall for support and lurched out the door. I stumbled down the hallway, my mind in turmoil. As head of the investigation, Rohfek could plant enough evidence to convince the Council I was a traitor. I was doomed unless I could find someone who would believe me. Lydmila never would and I doubted Kiptani would. He and Rohfek had served together on the Royal Council for dekas and Kiptani had said many times how Rohfek had graciously stepped aside as interim Regent when Zhun'Mar returned from Earth.

With my head down in thought, I turned the corner of the hallway and bumped into Lydmila. Her bulk knocked me back a step. A squad of Vhirko stood behind her. "Sneaking around, huh?" A cruel smile crossed her lips. "With a traitor loose in the Castel, I'm worried about you wandering through the hallways alone."

She turned and faced the squad. "Corporal Oksana, accompany Master Kuinsi. Do not let him out of your sight until you're relieved of duty."

A black haired Vhirko stepped forward. She lowered her gaze to look at me. "Yes, Commandant."

I didn't know whether to be upset or thankful. A Vhirko guard would ensure that no harm came to me, but she'd also know everything I did. I decided I had no choice but to do what I would have done even if a Vhirko didn't shadow me. I'd tell Siniastra everything.

-6-

Arvor Castel

Planet Tirano

A squad of Vhirko blocked the doors to Siniastra's chambers. "The Queen is in mourning and does not wish to be disturbed," said the tall and sinewy squad leader. "My orders are to let no one pass," she said sternly.

The words pelted me like cold raindrops. I'd been so wrapped up in my own problems, I hadn't thought about how devastated Sini must feel. She shouldn't be alone, not tonight. I should be with her. I was the closest thing to family she had left. "Please inform the Queen that Kuinsi wishes to see her. I'm sure she'd agree to permit me to pass."

The Vhirko's expression didn't change. "I have my orders. Only the Queen may change them."

"And how will you know if she wishes to change them unless you ask?"

The Vhirko continued to stare straight ahead without replying.

I stood as tall as I could and raised my face toward the Vhirko's. "This concerns Royal Council business that must be attended to immediately." I had mixed feelings about using his position as a Council member to threaten the Vhirko, but I had to see Sini. "Your failure to ask her to see me will endanger the security of Tirano. As a member of the Council, I demand that you tell her I am here."

The Vhirko's eyelid twitched slightly. I decided to press my advantage. I looked at the name tag on her chest. "Corporal Svetlena, if you refuse my demand, I will inform the entire Royal Council of your refusal." If it wasn't so important that he see Sini, I would have hated myself for threatening the Vhirko by such a blatant misuse of power.

"Do as you will. I must follow my orders," Svetlena said, her voice steady.

I should have realized I couldn't bully a Vhirko. Her training, like all Vhirko, would have conditioned her to never to do anything other than follow Sini's orders. I turned to return to my quarters; upset that she hadn't let him in, pleased that she had followed her orders. If I couldn't bully my way in, then no one would be able to, including Rohfek. I remembered another way I could contact Sini: semaphore. No one actually typed courriel messages; they used holo messaging. But Sini and I had adopted semaphore as a method to communicate without anyone being aware. It had been especially useful in Council meetings when we could communicate undetected with each other.

When I entered my room, Corporal Oksana followed. I'd never had a personal Vhirko guard before and found it disconcerting, and slightly creepy, to have her in my quarters standing behind him like my shadow. Despite my discomfort, I sat at my muhrwood desk and actuated my celpad. She stepped behind me, and I wondered if anyone ever got use to a Vhirko's constant lurking.

I typed in my code name, "Zinfandel," and then Sini's, "Warrior Princess." I'd always teased her about her Vhirko training sessions and called her the Warrior Princess. She thought it was funny and adopted it as her semaphore identity. In the message block, I tapped: "You shouldn't be alone tonight. I'm your family now. Send your Vhirko to get me. Zinfandel." I pushed the transmit icon and waited.

The wait seemed like deci even though only a few milli passed until a knock sounded on the door. I rushed to the door and opened it. Corporal Svetlena stood in the entry. "I am ordered to accompany you to the Queen's chambers. Please follow me."

Without waiting for a reply, Svetlena turned and marched down the hallway. I followed her, not even bothering to close the door. I'd seen enough Vhirkos chasing after Sini to know that Corporal Oksana would close the door and follow.

When we reached the doors to Sini's quarters, Svetlena opened a door so I could pass. I couldn't read her expression, but I wondered if she thought I'd report her to Sini as I'd threatened. I stopped and faced her. "You performed your duty, Corporal Svetlena. You followed your orders. I will commend you to the Queen and to your commanding officer." A brief flicker of a smile creased her face.

When I enter Sini's chamber, only a single sconce lighted the reception room. She sat on a black couch in an ivory-colored robe, the Golden Vines embroidered on the right shoulder. Her blue eyes no longer contained the fury displayed in the Council Chamber, only overwhelming sorrow.

I scurried to the couch and sat next to her. "Sini, Sini," I whispered. She threw her arms around him and buried her head on his shoulders. Her warm tears ran down his cheek.

"I thought I'd be sad today because I'd be betrothed to Fiotr, not because my parents are dead."

I held her tighter, knew there could be no words that would comfort her. We clung to each other for several milli, neither saying a word. Sini lifted her head off my shoulders. "Mother would have wanted me to be strong, like a Vhirko. I wish it were so easy." She paused, looked at the floor. "I've been too afraid to ask anyone. Is your mother safe?"

I nodded. "She's at the Sisterhood's retreat. I've contacted her and arranged for her to be escorted back tomorrow. She wants to be here for you."

Sini sobbed. "I'm afraid I won't make it that long."

"What are you talking about? Of course, you will. The Belts are restored and they'll soon have the virus removed."

Sini wiped the tears off her cheeks with her fingers. "The Ring's curse," she whispered. "It's driving me insane."

I jerked my head back. If any Archonan heard Sini say the Ring cursed her, the Assembly would try to remove her from the Throne. "Order the Vhirko to leave so we can talk freely. I don't want to take a chance they'll overhear."

Siniastra turned to the two Vhirko. "Please stand outside the door."

Corporal Oksana stood at attention. "Under orders of Commandant Lydmila, I am not to let Master Kuinsi out of my sight."

Sini tilted her head and raised her eyebrows. "What's that all about?"

"It's an ugly story and now's not the time to go into it," I said. "Tell them they can leave the door open and keep an eye on me."

"You heard Master Kuinsi," Sini said to the Vhirko. "I will be safe."

The Vhirko left the room and stood at attention outside the open door. Corporal Oksana riveted her eyes on me. Luckily only the one sconce lit the room. As long as we remained in the shadows, the Vhirko couldn't read our lips.

"Even if I believed the legends of the Ring's curse," I said, "it would only affect you if you weren't the rightful heir. You're Queen Regnant."

"Try telling them that. I haven't slept more than a few milli since I put the Ring on my finger."

"I'd be surprised if you had. You were too close to your father and mother not to be too devastated to sleep."

"I've fallen asleep several times. The legend exists. Each time all the Arvor Kings but father wait for me. They call me the usurper Tarnlot's child and scream neither he nor I have the right to sit on the Golden Vine Throne. Grandfather Mhikhel says he personally will drive me insane unless I abdicate in favor of Zhun'Mar's heirs. Before I can respond, I'm awake and afraid to go back to sleep and face them. But if I don't get some sleep soon, I think my implant will explode."

I pulled Sini closer and held her while I remembered the archives he'd uncovered. The original Arvor King, Ahrtzor, had modified the standard memory implant chip and created a variant that only an Arvor was permitted to wear. It was also Ahrtzor who had first worn the Golden Vine Ring. "Has your implant ever bothered you before?"

"I've worn it since I was a child and never noticed it until now. It burns constantly now, as if it's overheating."

I rocked Sini in my arms. "The legends are false, Sini. You are the rightful heir. Something else is happening, and we'll figure it out together. I've got an idea. Take the Ring off and give it to me."

Sini clenched her fingers. "I can't do that. It would be admitting that I don't deserve to wear it."

"Don't worry. I'm only going to hold it while you sleep. I won't leave. I'll give it back to you as soon as you wake."

"Why will that help?"

"Deductive reasoning. Something's affecting your implant. If you didn't have a problem until you started wearing the Ring, it must be something the Ring's causing."

Sini remained in my embrace, her hands shielded from the Vhirkos' view. She used her left hand to pull the Ring off her finger. I opened my hand. Sini hesitated a moment. "Here." She dropped the Ring in my palm.

I closed his fingers around the Ring. I gently rocked my torso back and forth. Within a couple myria, Sini's eyes closed. Her chest rose slowly and evenly. She'd fallen asleep. I released my embrace and slid to the other end of the couch. With my back still to the Vhirko, I opened my hand and stared at the Ring.

The Golden Vine Ring was a ring of legends. The sides of the solid gold ring were etched with grape vines. A purple cluster of grapes set atop the Ring. At each Sovereign's coronation, he would add a grape to the cluster. I ran my forefinger over the cluster and felt each grape. As I suspected, the deep purple grapes were sculpted from a rare color of precious opal. Because of its density, precious opal couldn't transmit over as great a distance as the fire opal of my pendant. In fact, if I remembered my studies correctly, it couldn't transmit more than a few mikra.

I nodded in admiration. Ahrtzor would have known this. He'd selected the densest precious opal he could find precisely because of its finite frequency. I also suspected that the Ring's transmissions were encrypted and could only be decoded by a uniquely programmed implant chip. Clearly, Ahrtzor didn't want anyone other than the person wearing the Ring to receive its transmissions. Especially someone like a Sibyl who would have an implant coded to receive high frequency wavelengths through a fire opal pendant.

But surely Ahrtzor had a purpose other than to drive people insane. I activated my pendant and searched for a locally transmitted frequencies. As I expected, my pendant found none. I switched frequency to contact Sibyl archives. I wanted to review any research on precious opal photonics that existed, and who had conducted such research and when.

I was on the fifth text when Sini stirred. I glanced at the chronometer on the wall. He'd been so absorbed in his research that he didn't realize that more than a deci had passed.

Sini raised her head and smiled. "Thanks, I needed that rest. Now perhaps I can think straight. I've got so much to do."

"No dreams of a curse?" I asked.

"No."

"Good. I think you can put this back on. Just be sure to take it off when you sleep. I sat at the other end of the couch, so if you keep it that far away, you should be okay. When all of this mess is over, we need to experiment with the Ring. It has to do more than cause bad dreams."

Sini laid her hand on mine. "I'd be happy merely to wear it without worrying about those dreams."

"I've got some ideas, but they'll have to wait. I'd better leave so you can attend to what you need to."

Sini squeezed my hand. "I've been too worked up to say it earlier, but thanks for being here for me. I know I can always depend on you." She took a deep breath. "Unlike the traitor. What kind of Tiranoan would sabotage the Belts and murder," she wiped a tear from her eye, "Father?"

I'd gotten so wrapped up the Ring and its tormenting of Sini, I'd forgotten why he'd come to see Sini. I pulled her closer. "It's Rohfek," I whispered in her ear.

She pulled back, her eyes wide. Her lips quivered. "Oh, Kuinsi. No. He was Father's lifelong friend. He was Regent when Mother and Father were stranded on Earth. I can't believe he'd ever do anything to harm Father, or Tirano. How could you think such a thing?"

I had to tell Sini as quickly and succinctly as I could and hope she believed me. "After the Council meeting I went to his quarters to thank him for defending me against Lydmila's accusations. He must have been in a hurry because he didn't close his door securely. Through the crack I heard his holoconf with Petrella and Loik. He's going to plant evidence to make it look like I'm the traitor. Then he's going to convince you to send the Armada into a Tamok ambush."

Sini couldn't blinked back the tears streaming from in her eyes. "I never expected the burdens of leadership to come so soon and be so heavy. I never thought I'd assume the Golden Vine Throne in the same manner as Father. Unable to mourn his death because of the need to confront alien duplicity and a Tiranoan serpent."

She clenched her fists. "I'll call an emergency Council meeting. We'll expose Rohfek. Get this over with."

_If only it were that easy_. "It wouldn't work," I said. "We only have my word. Lydmila would never believe me. Rohfek would deny it. He'd say I used my closeness to you to turn you against him because I knew where his investigation would lead. They might even use it as an excuse to try to remove you from the Throne."

Sini pulled on her earlobe, the same habit her mother had when deep in thought. She'd never done that when Mirae was alive, now it seemed natural. She sat in thought for several myria. "Father always said that if the fate of Tirano depended on one person, he'd want that person to be Admiral Kiptani." She released her earlobe. "I think I know a way to expose Rohfek and to spring a surprise on the Tamok."

-7-

Royal Council Chamber

Arvor Castel

Planet Tirano

Along with other council members, I awaited Siniastra's arrival in the Council Chamber. The tension in the chamber caused the hair on my arms to tingle. Count Rohfek fidgeted in his chair while his forefinger flipped pages on the screen of his notepad. Admiral Kiptani hadn't taken his eyes off his command screen since he'd entered the Chamber. Every few seconds he'd push an icon on the screen, probably reviewing fleet strength and tactical capabilities. Lydmila paced back and forth behind Siniastra's chair, stopping every few steps to glower in my direction.

After one of her glowers, Lydmila lifted the comlink on her wrist and read it. "The Queen arrives."

Everyone stood to face the door. Siniastra marched through, accompanied by two Vhirko. Bloodshot eyes and black circles under her eyes revealed she hadn't slept since I'd left her chambers. In her state, she might not have the physical and mental stamina to last the day.

She crossed the room to the Throne. She head held high exactly in the manner that Zhun'Mar always had when he approached the Golden Vine Throne. Lydmila pulled out the Throne and Sini sat. Lydmila remained two paces behind the Throne.

"Please be seated everyone," Siniastra said. "You too, Lydmila. We have much to accomplish in a short time."

Lydmila sat stiff-backed next to Rohfek and directly across the circular table from me. Rohfek looked down at his notepad, while Kiptani's thumb rubbed the tips of his long brown fingers. Siniastra turned to Rohfek. "Have you made any progress in finding the traitor?"

Siniastra's calm tone contrasted to my nervous state. My palms were sweating. I clenched my hands on my lap to steady them.

Rohfek flipped through his notepad. "Some progress, your Highness. I expect to have a complete report by the end of the day."

Siniastra moved her eyes to Lydmila. "And you Commandant?"

"The traitor is a wily one. He's covered his tracks pretty well, but I'll snare the little vermin."

"Make sure you do," Siniastra said in a tone that sent a chill down my spine. She turned her head and fixed her gaze on Admiral Kiptani. "Admiral, what plan for an attack have you developed?"

Kiptani tapped forefingers together. "Your Highness, my staff has spent all night analyzing the Armada's capabilities for an offensive mobilization. We haven't added any new ships to the Armada in a deka. All of our military doctrine has been formulated in anticipation of defensive campaigns. We strongly advise against any type of offensive action. We just don't have adequate firepower or logistical support for an extended operation. Our best strategy is to remain in a defensive posture and rely on the Belts to protect us."

Siniastra's face reddened. "Admiral, I ordered you to develop a plan for an immediate strike on Tamok. Not some fainthearted garbage about hiding behind the Belts. I could have figured that out and I'm not even twenty loops old."

Kiptani stiffened his neck and shoulders. "We understood your orders. We developed lightning strike alternative. A series of empyrean booster jumps that would deploy a squadron of Vipers to Tamok space. They would launch a volley of missiles then immediately commence jump back to Tirano."

"Why only a single volley?" Lydmila asked. "That couldn't inflict much damage."

"Two reasons," Kiptani replied. "First, there's no certainty that the boosters can take that much stress. They should make it to Tamok, but we can't be certain they will make it back. If the boosters fail and Tamok warships pursue, the squadron will be sitting ducks. I want to get the squadron as far away as possible before booster failure. If we get them close enough, some of our destroyers can escort them back."

He paused and pushed an icon on his screen. A holographic map of Tamok space appeared in the center of the Council table. He pushed another icon and a series of dots appeared within the Tamok perimeter. "Second reason. As you can see, the squadron's flanks will be exposed when they come out of jump. If the Tamok fleet is positioned on either flank, it'll destroy our squadron before they know what hit 'em."

Lydmila shook her head, a broad smile on face. "You're too conservative. The Tamok know our doctrine is defensive. They expect us to hide behind the Belts. They'd never anticipate an offensive incursion into their territory. If we launch an all-out assault, they'll be totally unprepared. We can destroy the panther while it lies in its lair full of confidence."

"I have to agree with the Admiral's initial comments," Rohfek said. He rubbed his chin. "Such a risky maneuver could lead to disaster. It is better to sit behind the Belts."

The room fell silent as all eyes turned to Sini. "And what do you think, Kuinsi?" she asked.

"Now we're asking someone with no military training what he thinks?" Lydmila scoffed.

Sini slowly turned her head toward Lydmila. "Commandant, if you ever question me again in that tone, I will find a new Commandant." Her determined tone left no doubt she would do so.

I quirked an eyebrow in appreciation. Sini combined an innate sense of command with her mother's fearlessness. Lydmila, or anyone else who crossed her, had better tread carefully.

Lydmila's heavy jaws clenched. "Yes, your Highness," she said in a flat tone.

Sini kept her gaze fixed on Lydmila. "Now, Kuinsi. Your thoughts," Siniastra said.

I kept my hands under the table. A bead of sweat formed on my forehead. "What if the traitor tells the Tamok of our plans? Until the traitor is found, we shouldn't undertake such a perilous course of action. It would place too many at risk."

"Wise counsel," Kiptani said. "He has no military training, yet he understands the risks."

Sini rose from her chair and used her height to its full advantage to tower over those seated at the table. "I will hear no more objections, Admiral. We will proceed with the strike tonight, with or without your concurrence." Her blue eyes hardened to cold steel. "I wish to speak to Admiral Kiptani alone. The rest of you are excused."

A startled look creased Rohfek's face while Lydmila's thick lips formed a smug smile. Rohfek deactivated his notebook and waddled out the door. I waited until Lydmila had disappeared down the corridor before I headed for my quarters with Corporal Oksana in tow. _What would Rohfek and Lydmila would do when they heard the news._

*

My mother returned to Arvor Castel shortly after the news about Admiral Kiptani shook the Castel's foundations. Siniastra had relieved Admiral Kiptani of duty as Commander of the Armada. He had been reassigned to the Home Fleet and ordered to fly immediately to Brehon Compound to accompany the remains of Zhun'Mar and Mirae to Arvor Castel.

Mom stormed into my quarters, the color of her face almost as red as her scarlet gown. "Has Sini lost leave of all reason?"

I'd hoped Mom would have arrived before the news broke so that I could have prepared her. As I'd experienced too often, she wasn't easy to reason with once her temper flared. I rubbed my hands together.

"I can tell by that look that you're involved," she said in the accusatory tone she'd used whenever I disobeyed her.

"Please, Mother. Sit and listen before you bite my head off," I said in as firm a tone as he could muster. I pointed at a teapot and cups on the table in front of the living room's couch. "I've made some of your favorite vine tea."

Without turning to look at her, I spoke to Corporal Oksana. "I wish to have a private conversation with my mother. Please wait in the hallway. You can keep an eye on me from there."

Caykondra's eyes narrowed and formed the look she used to intimidate me when I was a child. "A Vhirko assigned to you. Has the world gone completely mad?"

"Mother, we don't have time for that. You have to listen, and listen now. Before it's too late."

Mom stomped to the couch and sat stiffly on the edge of the cushion. "Okay, I'm listening."

I wondered if I'd ever not be intimidated by my mother. In a shaky voice, I told her the details of my and Sini's plan to expose Rohfek as the traitor.

When I finished, Mom reached to the table and poured herself a cup of tea. Her lips formed a circle and she blew on the cup of tea before speaking. "Kuinsi, Kuinsi. This isn't some childhood game you're playing. This is life and death, the fate of Tirano. Petrella couldn't have survived for as long as she has on Tamok unless she could sniff out plots within plots. I hope you haven't overplayed your hand."

"As do I." I poured myself a cup of tea, breathed in the spicy warmth. "You haven't answered. Will you be able to receive my signal over that distance?"

Mom took a sip of tea, set the cup on the table. Undoubtedly, she was recalling the same hyperwave parameters for the pendants that I had. "Theoretically a pendant's hyperwave can transmit that far that fast." She paused. "But no one has ever tried to send a signal to someone so close to the Black Cavities. It should work though, if there's no unusual interference during your transmission."

A knock sounded on the quarter's outer door. Mom furrowed her brow. "So soon?" The knock sounded again, louder this time.

Without responding, I crossed the room and opened the door. A Vhirko stood at attention. "The Queen has called an emergency meeting of the Royal Council. You are to accompany me immediately."

I glanced back at Mom. She flashed me a wan smile. "I'll await your signal."

*

When I entered the Council Chamber, Siniastra, Rohfek, and Lydmila waited along with a bald man in Armada duty whites. "We've been waiting. Take a seat," Siniastra said to me. "Admiral Motoh has a report."

Admiral Motoh raised a shaking hand to his mouth and coughed. He lowered his hand. "I regret that I must report the death of Admiral Kiptani. The air shuttle he was piloting to Brehon exploded."

He paused, and Lydmila seized the moment to speak. "Was it sabotage?" she demanded.

Motoh rocked on his heels. "There were no reports of mechanical difficulties prior to the explosion. We have dispatched a team to investigate. Unfortunately, the wreckage is in a rugged, isolated section of Brehon Gorge. It'll take time to get our personnel inserted into the crash zone."

Lydmila glared at me, and I almost mouthed her next words with her as she spoke. "The traitor has struck again."

"It would appear so," Rohfek said. He pinched his lower lip with his forefinger and thumb. "But why?"

Siniastra spoke. "It's obvious. Because of our increased security, the traitor must be unable to contact Tamok. The traitor wants to confuse us, cause us to delay our planned strike." She looked at Motoh. "Is the squadron in staging position, ready to commence the strike on my command?"

Motoh swallowed and his Adam's apple bobbed. "Yes, your Highness."

Siniastra pulled on her ear lobe. "I will take no further chance that anything said in this room will be leaked to Tamok. Commandant, summon a Vhirko squad. As soon as they arrive, order a pair to accompany each of us to my Command Cruiser. We will transport to ComBase 4 so that we can remain in constant contact with the squadron."

Sini rotated her head to make eye contact with Motoh, Lydmila, Rohfek, and finally me. "No one in this room will be permitted to speak or otherwise have contact with anyone until after the squadron has completed the strike."

A vicious smile crossed Lydmila's face. "It will be so, your Highness."

Lydmila raised her wrist comlink and whispered into it. Almost instantaneously, the chamber door opened and five pairs of Vhirko surged in. Lydmila strode to where the Vhirko stood and issued their orders prior to pointing to assign each pair of Vhirko.

Lydmila cast a vicious smile at me. "Corporals Svetlena and Oksana will accompany Master Kuinsi." I'd been biting his lip and realized I must look worried and guilty and to them. My eyes darted to Rohfek. Rohfek folded his notepad and nodded with a smile at the two Vhirko assigned to him.

Rohfek seemed undisturbed, almost confident. A horrible thought entered my mind. _What if Rohfek and Petrella had anticipated Sini's plan and worked out a counter trap?_ I wished Admiral Kiptani were present to provide his counsel.

-8-

Command Cruiser Dhanus III

Deep Space Jump

A Viper squad encircled Siniastra's Command Cruiser Dhanus as the ships glided in unison through the fifth and final empyrean jump. Sini's bullet-shaped cruiser had been outfitted with the same empyrean thruster as a Viper and could attain speeds of up to half the speed of light. The Dhanus' designers had included such speed so that if it ever became necessary, the Dhanus could flee to safety while the accompanying ships protected its departure. Not that such speed would be needed. After Mhorg and Bhradvin had ambushed the Dhanus II at Caerwin, the Dhanus III had been equipped with enough missiles to out volley a fully armed squadron.

I sat on one side of the square conference table in the center of the Dhanus' operations chamber. Rohfek sat to my right, Lydmila to my left, and Siniastra across from me. Admiral Motoh stood at the cruiser's control terminal and coordinated their flight path with the Viper squadron's commander.

I fidgeted in his unpadded chair. Each pair of Vhirko remained planted behind their assigned person and I sensed Svetlena and Oksana coiled at ready.

Lydmila's vicious smile had not left her face since Sini had announced that the Dhanus would not remain at ComBase 4 but would accompany the Viper squadron to Tamok. Rohfek had objected that the Queen should not place herself in such danger, but she merely smiled and said they were going to a new destination.

"Admiral Motoh," Siniastra said. "Instruct the squadron to pull out of jump at the assigned coordinates."

Motoh pushed several icons on the terminal. "Done, your Highness. Brace for re-entry."

I grabbed the edge of the tabletop. The smooth glide of jump jerked into an increase in g-force and my shoulders were pushed against the back of the chair.

As quickly as the g-force increased, it diminished. The contents of my stomach lurched up to my throat. My hands flew up to cover my mouth. I swallowed and tried to force my stomach into equilibrium. I doubted that my would ever adjust to the lurch out of jump, but I prayed to Ghaeah that I'd live to endure the discomfort of the return jumps to Tirano.

"All ships out of jump and positioned at their assigned coordinates," Admiral Motoh said in a monotone.

"Please inform ComBase 4 of our position," Siniastra said calmly.

"At the perimeter of the Tamok system as you ordered."

I smiled inwardly as Admiral Motoh continued. "Close enough to make contact with the Tamok if they're waiting at our original coordinates. Too close for their ships to engage thrusters and jump to our location, but too far for the Tamok missiles to reach us. Under solar sail power, it'll take the Tamok at least ten milli to close within firing range. More than enough time to commence jump back to the safety of Tirano."

Sini kept her eyes on Motoh. "Any sign of the Tamok fleet?" she asked.

"As you predicted. Half are at one flank and the other at the opposite flank of the original coordinates."

"Good." Siniastra turned to Lydmila. "Have your Vhirko at ready."

Lydmila's forehead wrinkled and her eyelids tightened to glare at me. Her look displayed her conviction that I was the traitor who was about to be uncovered. A lightness entered my chest and my heartbeat increased, but not for the reasons she thought. The slightest misstep by Sini in the next few milli could cause our plan to unravel. If it did, it would provide an opportunity for Rohfek to accuse me of betraying Sini. Lydmila wouldn't hesitate to kill me as a threat to the Queen.

Siniastra stood. "Admiral, contact the Tamok command ship."

Motoh's index finger punched an icon. "Semaphore contact established."

Sini smiled confidently. "Admiral, request a holographic conference between Petrella and me."

Motoh's fingers flew across the panel's icons. He paused. "They've agreed." He pointed to a spot next to the conference table. "I've set their holos to appear next to the conference table."

Siniastra pushed back her chair and strode to the indicated area. "Lydmila, please accompany the Lord Chancellor and stand next to me."

Rohfek's eyebrows flapped up and down. For a moment, I thought Rohfek would break, but he stood and waddled to Sini's side. I couldn't have been so calm under a similar situation.

"Project holos now," Siniastra said over her shoulder to Motoh.

Petrella's holo appeared. Loik stood at her side with his condescending smirk plastered on his face. A burly Tamok warrior towered behind them.

Siniastra spoke first. "I am prepared to negotiate for the delivery of the murdering traitor to you."

Petrella laughed derisively. "I have no interest in obtaining Kuinsi."

Lydmila reached for the laser knife in her belt. Out of the corner of my eyes, I saw the black trousers of Svetlena and Oksana step closer. Siniastra reached her hand to Lydmila's wrist. "No," she commanded. She returned her gaze to Petrella. "I'm aware of your and the traitor's attempts to falsely implicate Kuinsi. The murdering traitor I was referring to is your paramour, Lord Chancellor Rohfek."

Rohfek's mouth dropped open and his fat jowls shook. "How?"

Petrella glanced at Rohfek, her lips curled into a disdainful grin. "Your fat quisling has served his purpose. I have no use for him now. The fool will die with you." Petrella slashed her hand to signal her technician to cut transmission.

Rohfek raised his arm and opened his mouth, in what I thought was intended to stop Petrella from cutting the transmission. Before he could utter a sound, he toppled forward. Lydmila's knife protruded from his back. I jumped out of his seat and ran to Rohfek, rolled him onto his back. Rohfek's eyes fluttered open. "I did . . . virus . . . Belts, not . . .Kip. . ." His eyes closed.

I reached for Rohfek's neck. Rohfek's pulse had stopped and his face began to turn purple.

I stood, clenched my fists. "Damn you, Lydmila. Now we'll never have an opportunity to interrogate him." I couldn't keep his voice from shaking with anger. "How do you know he didn't sabotage something else?"

Her lip curled. "My duty is to protect the Queen. I thought he was attacking the Queen. He could have killed her if I hadn't acted."

Siniastra clenched her jaw. "Lydmila, get Rohfek's body out of my sight." She bared her teeth. "And Commandant, we will discuss your actions when we return to the Castel. In the meantime, you will personally stand guard of his body until the doctors have retrieved his implant. I want a full report of its contents."

Lydmila's eye twitched, and I thought a momentary look of disdain flashed in her eyes. Before she could say anything, the concussion of bursting missiles rocked the cruiser.

"Admiral Motoh, what in the Belts is happening?" Siniastra shouted.

Motoh hung to the edge of the terminal for support. "A Tamok delaying force has appeared at our rear. They must have been waiting next to the ergosphere of one of the Cavities where our sensors couldn't detect them. We can't jump to Tirano with them blocking our route. Their main fleet is surging toward us. We're boxed in."

Fear replaced my anger. My breath tasted coppery as I reached for my pendant. Despite the concussions rocking the Dhanus, I concentrated on the pendant and hoped Mom could receive the transmission through the interference of the unexpected bombardment. In the background I heard Motoh yelling to Siniastra. "I've ordered the rear half of the squadron to turn to engage the Tamok delaying force. The remainder of will hold off their main fleet until the way's cleared for jump."

I felt the warmth of contact in his pendant, received the response. "Contact," I yelled at Sini. "Kiptani's commenced jump."

Motoh studied his terminal, shook his head. "I hope Admiral Kiptani can navigate that jump. We didn't plan on a Tamok force jumping out of Caerwin. Their jump could have created a hypergolic disturbance. If the Admiral can't make it through the disturbance or is delayed, we'll be encircled."

For what seemed like the thousandth time, the concussion of an exploding Tamok missile rocked the ship. My pendant grew cool. I squeezed the pendant. I'd lost contact.

Another concussion sounded, louder and closer, and my ears began to ring. The ship shuddered and a sensor panel above Motoh's command terminal burst open. A jumble of burnt and frayed sihlcon transmitters dangled and sizzled in the open air. Motoh slammed his fist against the terminal. "I've lost communications. If we lose the Vipers engaging their main fleet, we'll never know until it's too late."

"Power up weapons," Siniastra said calmly.

Motoh worked furiously on the terminal. I squeezed his pendant. It remained cold in my palm, and I understood the meaning of the fog of battle. I closed my eyes, hoped I could somehow revive the connection with Mom and warn them of the Tamok blocking force. Instead, another concussion rocked the ship and the ringing in my ears increased and drowned my ability to concentrate.

The specter of defeat roiled my thoughts. I turned to Siniastra. "Petrella had our plan figured out. She'll be waiting for the Home Fleet. I can't reach Mother to warn them. They'll be decimated."

The concussions gained in frequency and intensity around the ship. "They've bracketed us," Motoh yelled. "I'm moving us further to the rear to buy some time."

Siniastra stiffened her back. "No," she replied, her in commanding tone. "Move toward the main Tamok fleet. We've got enough armament on this ship to inflict significant damage on the Tamok. If we're to die, I want to die fighting like Mother would have. I won't greet death while fleeing like a scared womrat."

A small smile creased Motoh's face. "Aye, aye," he replied.

Lydmila stepped to Motoh's side. "Get us close enough to board a Tamok ship. I want to feel Tamok blood on my hands."

I raised my fist. "Damn your killing lust, Commandant. Your duty is to guard your Queen. Now do it," I screamed.

A maniacal fury exuded from Lydmila's eyes, as much directed at me as much as at the Tamok. Without taking her eyes off me Lydmila stiff-legged to Sini's side. I vowed that if I got out of this battle alive, I'd convince Sini to remove Lydmila as Vhirko Commandant.

"I've reestablished contact," Motoh shouted. "Yes, yes," he muttered as he read the terminal. He clenched his fist. "What little remains of the Tamok delaying force is fleeing in disarray. Kiptani caught them completely by surprise. The Home Fleet's in position on the main Tamok fleet. We've got them boxed. It's going to be a duck shoot."

"The Tamok must pay for the murder of my parents," Siniastra said in a cold tone. I saw the same killing frenzy in her eyes as I'd seen in Lydmila's. "Mother would expect no less. Give the order to destroy every ship."

I wanted to agree, but remembered Phargon. The Radani will hate Tirano forever. I grabbed Siniastra by the shoulders, tilted my head to look into her eyes, and shook her. "No, Sini. If you do, the Tamok will hate you and your heirs forever, just like the Radani do. Remember your father's greatest fear was that the Radani and the Tamok would ally against us. Show some mercy. Let them disarm and retreat under Kiptani's surveillance. That way the Tamok may become a trusted ally someday."

"No," Lydmila screeched in my ear. "We'll never have this opportunity again. Destroy them while we can. They can never be trusted. Rid the galaxy once and for all of the Tamok menace."

Sini stared at me, her lips twitched. I squeezed her shoulders gently. "Please," I whispered. "Do what your father would have. Act with reason, not uncontrolled passion."

A tear trickled out of the corner of Sini's eye and glistened on her cheekbone. She closed her eyes. "Mother forgive me," she whispered.

-9-

Kuinsi's Chambers

Arvor Castel

I stood at the dining table in my quarters uncorking a bottle of zinfandel. My hands possessed barely enough strength to pull the cork. I'd never felt so exhausted, mentally and physically, in my life. The cease-fire negotiations with the Tamok had been tricky. But after a dozen spins, I had succeeded in convincing the Tamok to agree to a permanent cease fire.

A contrite-acting Petrella, an act I felt obliged to play along with even though it made me sick to do so. According to Petrella, the Tamok had intended only to disable the Belts for a shrouded ship to fire missiles at an isolated location as a warning to Zhun'Mar. They hoped such a warning that the Tamok could penetrate the Belts would force Zhun'Mar to negotiations regarding reparations. Rohfek had been asked to provide the coordinates of an isolated location, which he transmitted just prior to the missile launching. Petrella was shocked when she learned that Zhun'Mar had been killed and realized that Rohfek had his own agenda and could no longer be trusted. To demonstrate the truth (and undoubtedly to save her own life), she agreed to reparations for Zhun'Mar's death: All the sihlcon chips we needed to reseed the Belts.

The treaty had been signed and I'd returned to the Castel only a deci ago. I'd eaten enough ship food and drank enough synwine to last a lifetime. Even though it was after ninth deci, all I wanted was to taste the raspberry flavors of the zinfandel and eat some crusty bread before going to bed. I looked forward to sleeping like a baby now that Svetlena and Oksana no longer guarded me.

I swirled my wine glass and inhaled the bouquet. Not even the spicy bouquet could stop Petrella's last words from haunting me, something that I needed to discuss with Sini. "Your terms have been fair. But some of your people won't think so. For your own good, watch your back. Neither the quisling Rohfek nor any Tamok killed Fiotr. There remains a traitor in your midst. I would watch my back along with that of Siniastra. Even Loik saw the obvious: The two of you are gigantic thorns in the sides your hidebound Archonan that they want to excise."

I slumped into a straight-backed muhrwood chair and sipped the wine. Petrella's contriteness was an act, but I did believe she was telling the truth and not trying to play with my mind about Fiotr. Even though I didn't detect any deception in her mannerisms or voice when she spoke, that wasn't what convinced me that she was telling the truth. Loik had nodded in agreement, his smirk absent, his eyes somber.

If neither Rohfek nor the Tamok had murdered Fiotr, who would have had a motive? Even though Mirae remained the obvious suspect, I could never believe that she would have poisoned Fiotr. Unfortunately, no evidence tied anyone else to Fiotr's death.

I tore a piece of bread off the crusty loaf and chewed on the grainy bread. It was too late to contact Sini, I'd discuss Petrella's warning tomorrow with Sini. I hated the thought of another investigative witch-hunt. But Sini's security on the Throne required an investigation to uncover Fiotr's murderer. Even though I had no desire to subject anyone to the unjustified hounding I'd endured from Lydmila, I would volunteer to head the investigation. I at least would have some empathy for those who had to appear during the investigation.

A knock sounded on the door. With legs heavy as lead, I trudged through the sitting area and opened the door. Lydmila's square bulk filled the opening, a bottle of wine in her left hand. She barged through and slammed the door behind her.

"What? What are you doing?" I stammered. "Get out!"

Without saying a word, Lydmila clenched her right fist and punched me in his stomach. The blow rammed the breath out of my lungs. My chest heaved and hot agony radiated through my torso. I tried to suck in air and couldn't.

Lydmila yanked my hair and pulled me into the sitting area. She lifted me face to look at her face. "You must have been expecting me, Earther boy. I see you've already opened a bottle of wine. You'll have to have a drink of mine too." She twisted my head and he didn't know if I'd die from lack of oxygen or a broken neck. She lessened the pressure. "You don't deserve to live among real Tiranoans."

I finally sucked in some air and realization dawned on him. "You!" I gasped for more air. "You killed Fiotr! Why?"

"Isn't it obvious? I exacted the revenge all true Tiranoans desired for the murder of Tarnlot by the Lok scum."

I squirmed in her grasp. "No true Tiranoan would assassinate a royal guest and fabricate evidence to blame Queen Mirae."

She tightened her grip on my hair and twisted. "You pathetic, little dung heap. Bhradvin and Mhorg murdered Tarnlot. Mirae failed to protect him. I waited dekas for revenge, thought it would elude my grasp. Then the perfect opportunity. Fiotr alone in the guest chamber and Mirae publicly seething over the proposed marriage."

She pulled my face closer. "Tarnlot would have been proud. I slipped in and out through the same secret trapdoor to the guest chamber that we used during the Nhoth insurrection. It had been so long ago that even your mother has forgotten its existence. And the revenge would have been complete if you hadn't convinced Siniastra to stop before the Tamok were annihilated. We could have killed Petrella and Bhradvin's spawn."

The door clicked. Lydmila's calloused hand covered my mouth before I could yell a warning. Footsteps entered the living room. I prayed it wasn't Mother. Lydmila could snap her in two like a twig.

"Let him go Lydmila," Sini commanded.

Lydmila tightened her grip on my hair. "Left your Vhirko outside, huh? Thought you'd be safe alone with this weakling," she said in a mocking tone. "Good. You can die with him. Just like your mother, you disgrace everything Vhirko. You let this half-breed abomination soften you, talk you into permitting the panther slink back into its lair. It will lick its wounds until it is capable of striking again. Tirano can never be safe until it is eradicated. With you and this little half-breed maggot out of the way, we can put a real King, an Archonan, on the Throne and finish Tamok while it remains weak."

Sini crouched and raised her hands, open palmed, in front of her chest in the Vhirko attack position. Lydmila snorted. "You think you can challenge me? You're not even a real Vhirko; just some pretentious whelp taught a few tricks by her mother. I'll let the little Earther boy watch while I pulverize you as easily as I could have your mother."

Lydmila released her grip of my hair, pulled my necklace over my head and through it across the room. She shoved me to the floor, then turned her back to me and assumed the attack position. I had to do something. Sini might be quicker than Lydmila, but she couldn't match Lydmila's power. There wasn't time to try to retrieve my pendant, and if I could, it would take too long to send a message to Vision to the Vhirko Compound notified that Sini was in danger. Sini could be dead before help arrived. I had to do something immediately.

Not knowing what else to do, I lowered my head and shoulders and launched my body into Lydmila's back. "No you bitch," I screamed.

My shoulder crashed into hardened muscle. Her torso lurched forward and she threw her arms up to balance herself. The back of one of her hands smacked into my chin and knocked me sprawling backwards. In the instant it took me to crash onto my back, Sini spin on one heel and with her other heel kicked Lydmila's head.

My spine crashed onto the floor. A sharp, white flash shot erupted in my head. Black dots floated in my eyes and I fought to remain conscious. Through the floating dots, Lydmila staggered toward me, her eyes wide and unfocused. Blood spurted from her nose and red drops splattered the floor. I didn't know how long she'd remain dazed. I rolled onto his stomach and crawled towards her. I wrapped my arms around her knees and with my shoulder tried to push her down. She didn't budge.

"Go get help," I yelled. I tightened my grip. Warm blood dropped on the back of my neck.

Sini stepped forward. I looked up and saw Sini wrap her arms around the teetering Lydmila's head. "I saw you enter and followed," she said in a cold fury. "I heard it all."

Sini tightened her grip on Lydmila's head. "This is for Mother. A true Tiranoan. And a true Vhirko. Unlike you."

A grimace of exertion tightened Sini's lips and her face reddened as she twisted Lydmila's head. Lydmila's chin touched her shoulder blade and I heard the snap of bones. Sini released her grip, stepped back. Lydmila's body tottered a moment. She fell away from me. I released my grip and scrambled backwards. Lydmila landed on her back, her neck and head tilted at an unnatural angle and her lips frozen in a snarl.

I staggered to my feet. Pain throbbed up and down my spine and I couldn't straighten my back. Sini didn't move, she merely rocked back and forth where she stood.

"I fear she spoke true," Sini said in a bitter tone. "We have not seen the last threat from Tamok."

I searched her face, saw only the unsought burdens and sorrow that had been thrust on her. "It's over now," I said softly.

Sini blinked back a tear. "It will never be over. I came to tell you that the Armada's deep space patrols spotted Petrella's ship entering the Cavities' no-fly zone. They chased but were too late. She flew into a Cavity. As she entered the ergosphere she sent a message that when she returned the Tamok would avenge Bhradvin and Fiotr."

I reached up and wiped Sini's tear. "I'm glad she flew into a Cavity. We're never see her again. With her gone, the Tamok will listen to reason," I said. "When they learn that Lydmila acted alone in killing Fiotr and that you personally exacted the Queen's justice, they'll understand that they no longer need to seek revenge."

"The Tamok will never believe that Lydmila acted alone. They will thirst for revenge just as Lydmila did." Sini's lips quivered. "They will wait until the opportunity arises to strike again, just as Lydmila did.

"Tirano must be prepared and united for the next time. There can be no more Rohfeks, no more Lydmilas. The rot from within must end. Tiranoan must never conspire against Tiranoan again."

I wrapped my arms around her and pulled her close. The Belts had not protected Tirano from its greatest danger; a danger my mother had not seen unfurling around Zhun'Mar. I feared that only the tip of the rot had been exposed and that I must assume the burden of rooting it out for Sini. Only then would Tirano be strong enough to face the enemies awaiting us outside the Belts.

"I will make it so," I whispered. I prayed that my desire to purge the rot would not warp me into a Lydmila.

###

**Outliers of Tirano** ends here. **The Tales of The Encircling Belts of Tirano** **Saga** will continue with **Aos Whey-ki, Sibyl of Doom** , in which Kuinsi uncovers the true story of the founding of Tirano.

**A Bastard's Oath** , the first story in **The Tales of The Encircling Belts of Tirano Saga** , is available if you have not read it. In **A Bastard Oath** , after their father's mysterious assassination, Tarnlot must rescue Zhun'Mar's kingship by foiling both an aristocrat's usurpation of power and a Radani attempt to invade Tirano.

Also available is **A Dream Is A Pinhole In Time** in which Tarnlot, Zhun'Mar, Caykondra, Mirae escape an ambush in deep space by entering a hyperspace fissure that strands them on a planet in an unknown galaxy: present day Earth. The ability to return to Tirano depends upon Kuinsi's father, Hobie Burrows, a San Francisco lawyer.

Even though the stories occur in chronological order, each is an independent story. Accordingly, you can read the stories in any order.

