

## Preventive Maintenance for Life

### Dimas Sisneros

Copyright 2014 by Dimas Sisneros

Smashwords Edition

All quotes from the Bible were obtained from The Living Bible, Tyndale House Publishers, INC,

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.

### Acknowledgement

Today,

I am thankful for another great day that the Lord has made. The Lord everyday provides us with His Mercy, Grace and Compassion, knocking at the doors of our hearts; need to let Him in, to sup with us. Bible says, "The Lord is compassionate, gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in Love," Psalm 103:8. What a beautiful and loving God we serve.

I like acknowledge my Son, David Sisneros, for helping me with the design of the eBook's cover. I'm very grateful for his graphic designing skills and the time he spent on this beautiful and appropriate eBook cover.

I like to acknowledge a fellow Chaplain, an awesome friend, Greg Nelson, who not only did he inspire me to write this book, but committed his own personal time toward the completion of the book. Greg's service to this book, was so informative and knowledgeable, a sounding board and coach that allowed me to work through the rough spots along the way. May the Lord bless Greg and his family all the days of their lives!

I thank you Greg so much, very grateful and blessed, to have you as a Brother.

I thank the Lord, my God, Creator, and Savior.

He made this all possible!

All for His Glory!

### Table of Contents

Famous Quote

King Solomon

Book of Proverbs

God Favors Solomon

Creation of Wisdom

A Brighter Future

Wisdom is Freely Given

Seeking Love in the Wrong Places

Good Judgment and Common Sense

Nuggets of Truth

Benefits of Wisdom

Advice/Counsel

Bribes

Business

Character

Cheerful/Uncheerful

Children

Consignment/Loan

Control of God

Curses

Deceit/Lies

Evil/Wicked

Fear/Reverence for God

Fool/Foolish

Friend/Friendship

Good/Godly

Gossip

Helpless/Defenseless

Honesty/Dishonesty

Honor

Hope

Justice/Injustice

King/Kingdom

Lazy

Mocker

Poor

Prayer

Pride/Proud

Quarrel

Rebel

Rich/Riches

Sin/Sinner/Cleansing

Temptation

Tongue

Trust/Mistrust

Truth

Wife

Wise/Wisdom

Witness

Words

Work
The wise man avoids evil by anticipating it.

– Publilus Syrus (Wisdom)

Wisdom {wis-duhm} noun 1. The quality or state of being wise; knowledge of what is true or right coupled with just judgment as to action; sagacity, discernment, insight. 2. Wise sayings or teaching; precepts. 3. A wise act or saying. (Diclopedia/Random House Dictionary)

Antonyms of the word, Wisdom: 1. stupidity 2. Ignorance (Diclopedia/Random House Dictionary)

# Famous Quote

The most excellent and divine counsel, the best and most profitable advertisement of all others, but the least practiced, is to study and learn how to know ourselves. This is the foundation of wisdom and the highway to whatever is good.... God, nature, the wise, the world, preacher man, exhort him both by word and deed to the study of himself. – Pierre Charron

# King Solomon

**Legacy**

As a young man, he had a consuming passion for Knowledge and Wisdom (1 Kings 3:9-12). He became the literary prodigy of the world of his day. His intellectual attainments were the wonder of the age. Kings came from the ends of the earth to hear him. He lectured on Botany and Zoology. He was a Scientist, a Political Ruler, and a Business Man with Vast Enterprises, a Poet, Moralist, and Preacher. (1 Kings: 4, 9). (Haley's Bible Handbook)

Accomplishments

Solomon, 970?-930 B.C., was second son of David and Bath-seba and third king of Israel. Solomon was attributed to writing the Old Testament's books such as Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Ecclesiastics, Song of Solomon, and the Wisdom of Solomon included in the Apocrypha or second Canon. Wisdom of Solomon also called the Book of Wisdom; traditionally, contains exhortations to seek wisdom, passages on immortality, and a history of God's care of the Jews. All of these books were of Wisdom literature, a critical term for Jewish philosophical writings, of the pre-Christian era. (The Universal Illustrated Encyclopedia) (The Columbia Viking Desk Encyclopedia)

# Book of Proverbs

Like Psalms and Pentateuch, this book is divided, according to its Titles, into Parts: Proverbs of Solomon (Chapters 1-9); Proverbs of Solomon (Chapters 10-24); Proverbs of Solomon, which men of Hezekiah copied (Chapters 25-29); Words of Agur (Chapter 30); Words of Lemuel (Chapter 31). Thus, most of the Proverbs are ascribed to Solomon. Solomon seems to have borne about the same relation to Proverbs that David did to Psalms. Each was the principle Writer. Psalms is a book of Devotion. Proverbs, a Book of Practical Ethics. (Haley's Bible Handbook).

A Proverb

A Short, Pithy, Axiomatic Saying, is the life of which is Antithesis, or Comparison. They are wholly Unconnected. Designed primarily for the young: a form of Teaching: repetition of Practical Thoughts in form that would stick in mind. (Haley's Bible Handbook)

Subjects

Wisdom. Righteousness. Fear of God. Knowledge. Morality. Chastity. Diligence. Self-Control. Trust in God. Titles. Proper Use of Riches. Considerateness of the Poor. Contol of Tongue. Kindness to Enemies. Choice of Companions. Training of Childern. Industry. Honesty. Idleness. Laziness. Justice. Helpfulness. Cheerfulness. Common Sense. (Haley's Bible Handbook)

Technique of Treatment

This Book aims to inculcate Virtues that are insisted upon throughout the Bible. Over and over, in all the Bible, in multiform ways, and by diverse methods, God has supplied to man a great abundance of Instruction, line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little, as to How He Wants Men To Live, so that there be no excuse for our missing the mark. The Teachings of this book of Proverbs are not expressed in a "Thus Saith The Lord." as in the Law of Moses, where the Same Things are taught as a Direct Command of God; but rather are given as coming out of the Experience of a man who tried out and tested just about everything that men can engage in. Moses had said these things are the Commandments of God. Solomon here says, the things which God has commanded are proved by Experience to be the Best for men, and the Essence of Human Wisdom is in the Keeping of God's Commandments.

God in the long record of His Revelation of Himself and His Will to Man, it seems, resorted to every possible method, not only by Commandment, and by Precept, but by Example also, to convince men that God's Commandments are worth living by.

Solomon's fame was a sounding board that carried his voice to the ends of the earth, and made him an Example to All the World of the Wisdom of God's Ideas.

This book of Proverbs has been called one of the 'Best Guide Books to Success that a young man can follow." (Haley's Bible Handbook)

Object of the Book

To promote Wisdom, Instruction, Understanding, Righteousness, Justice, Equity, Prudence, Knowledge, Discretion, Learning, Sound Counsels (Chapters 2-7). What splendid words!

The starring point is the Fear of God (Chapter 7). Next, giving heed to Parental Instruction (Chapters 8-9). Then, Avoidance of Bad Companions (10-19). Wisdom cries aloud her Warnings (Chapters 20-33). (Haley's Bible Handbook)

# God Favors Solomon

As a young man, he had a consuming passion for knowledge and Wisdom (1 kings 39-12) He became the literary prodigy of the world of his day. His intellectual attainments were the wonder of the age. Kings came from the ends of the earth to hear him. He lectured on Botany and Zoology. He was a scientist, a Political Ruler, a Business Man with Enterprises, a Poet, Moralist and Preacher. See on 1 Kings 4 and 9). (Haley's Bible Handbook)

King Solomon married the daughter of Pharaoh, the King of Egypt, after an alliance. He brought his wife to the City of David, the place he planned to build his own palace, the temple of the Lord and the wall of Jerusalem round about. He loved the Lord by walking accordance to the statutes of his father, David. Because of the unfinished temple the burnt offering to the Lord were done on high places. King Solomon went to Gibeon, an important high place, to offer the Lord a thousand offerings. That night, the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream and offered him whatever he desired in his life.

Solomon express to the Lord of his kindness, shown to his father and now him, as a chosen King to his people. He told the Lord, "He was but a child" in the leading of the Lord's many, and great, and chosen people. Solomon desired a discerning heart to enable him to govern and distinguish right from wrong, in all situations. The Lord was so pleased with Solomon because he did desire neither wealth, long life, nor the destruction of his enemies, but administrative justice. Therefore, the Lord granted him a discernment and wise heart, and never will be someone like him, ever again. Since Solomon did not ask for riches or honor, the Lord was going to grant him these too, so no other king will ever have. Solomon woke up and realized he had a dream.

Consider This Thought

Can you imagine if God asked you, he would give you anything you wish, what would you wish for? Don't you think that would be awesome, an opportunity to request anything from God you desire? Most of us would either have chosen wealth, long life, or the destruction of our enemies, don't you think? Remember, what you ask for needs to be something according to his will and purpose, and if it is going to be used to glorify him. In what King Solomon chose was within these Godly requirements.

The School Teacher

By: Sylvester, Sermon Central Illustrations, Matthew 6:33-0:0

A story is told of a teacher who asked a class of students, 'What would you wish for if you had one wish?"

One enthusiastic student shouted out, "Mama, I would wish for a big house for my family and myself."

Another student proudly stood up and said, "I would wish for lots of land, to plant an orchard and export fruits."

A third student, unable to contain himself declared, 'Sir, give me the latest automobile."  
Then a young chap stood up, as if possess with all the Wisdom of Solomon and said, "Sir, I would ask for a million, million dollars or more. You see, with that I could buy the house the orchard and the latest automobile!"

The teacher then called upon a shy student, sitting quietly in the back, trying to avoid attention and asked, "And what would you wish for?"

The shy student stood up timidly and whispered, "Sir, I would ask for an eternity of time, for with that I could make the money, to buy the house, the land, and the automobile and live long enough to enjoy them!" Young Chad had a bad case of sickle cell. He knew the true value of time.

# Creation of Wisdom

Proverbs 2:19-20) The Lord's wisdom founded the earth; His understanding established all the universe and space. 20) The deep fountains of the earth were broken open to His knowledge and the skies poured down rain.

8:22-32) The Lord formed me in the beginning, before He created anything else. 23) From ages past, I am. I existed before the earth began. 19) The Lord's wisdom founded the earth; His understanding established all the universe and space. 20) The deep fountains of the earth were broken open to His knowledge and the skies poured down rain. 23) From ages past, I am. I existed before the earth began. 24) I lived before the oceans were created, before the springs bubbled forth their waters onto the earth; 25) before the mountains and the hills were made. 26) Yes, I was born before God made the earth and fields, and high plateaus. 27-29) I was there when He established the heavens and formed the great springs in the depth of the oceans. I was there when He set the limits of the seas and gave them His instructions not to spread beyond their boundaries. I was there when He made the blueprint for the earth and oceans. 30) I was always at His side like a child. I was His constant delight, laughing and playing in His presence. 31) And how happy I was with what He created - His wide world and all His family of mankind! 32) And so, young men, listen to me, for how happy are all who follow my instructions.

4:1-6) Young men, listen to me as you would to your father. Listen, and grow wise, for I speak the truth - don't turn away. 3) For I, too, was once a son, tenderly loved by my mother as an only child, and the companion of my father. 4) He told me never to forget his words. "If you follow them," he said, "you will have a long and happy life." 5) "Learn to be wise," he said, "and develop good judgment and common sense! I cannot over-emphasize this point." 6) Cling to wisdom - she will protect you. Love her - she will guard you.

Consider This Thought:

Did you realize that wisdom was here before the creation of the heavens and earth? Wisdom is not generally practiced in our lives, today. Usually, in many cases, a person's strategies, chooses to go by his own instinct, a gut feeling, in making a proper decision. These types of ways, of decision making, have no analyses done, nothing to provide for a good reliable, sure understanding, that a descent decision will be made. Remember, Wisdom is being wise, having knowledge of what is true or right coupled with just judgment as to action; good perception, discernment, or insight. Again, Wisdom, when making a decision is developing an opinion, for each of your choices, because either a good or bad consequence will result. This is so important because once we make our decision of a desired choice, you fall under its power, impossible to retrieve it back

Lighthouse

By Sherm, Sermon Central Illustrations, John 12:44-50

The captain of the ship looked into the dark night and saw faint lights in the distance. Immediately he told his signalman to send a message: "Alter your course 10 degrees south." Promptly a return message was received: "Alter your course 10 degrees north."

The captain was angered; his command had been ignored. So he sent a second message: "Alter your course 10 degrees south--I am the captain!" Soon another message was received: "Alter your course 10 degrees north--I am a seaman third class Jones."

Immediately the captain sent a third message, knowing the fear it would evoke: "Alter your course 10 degrees south--I am a battleship." Then the reply came: "Alter your course 10 degrees north--I am a lighthouse." There are plenty of voices shouting at us through the fog. We need the clear and solid voice of a lighthouse in our lives – a friend who is there with the right advice about where to go and how to get there.

# A Brighter Future

1:1-6) These are the proverbs of King Solomon of Israel, David's son. 2) He wrote them to teach his people how to live - how to act in every circumstance, 3) for he wanted them to be understanding, just and fair in everything they did. 4) "I want to make the simple-minded wise!" he said. "I want to warn young men about some problems they will face. 5, 6) I want those already wise to become the wiser and become leaders by exploring the depths of meaning in these nuggets of truth."

1:7-9) Determination to be wise is the first step toward becoming wise! And with your wisdom, develop common sense and good judgment. 8, 9) If you exalt wisdom, she will exalt you. Hold her fast and she will lead you to great honor; she will place a beautiful crown upon your head. 10) My son, listen to me and do as I say, and you will have a long, good life.

1:7, 8, 9) How does a man become wise? The first step is to trust and reverence the Lord! Only fools refuse to be taught. Listen to your father and mother. What you learn from them will stand you in good stead; it will gain you many honors.

3:18) Wisdom is a tree of life to those who eat her fruit; happy is the man who keeps on eating it.

Consider This Thought:

Don't you think living your entire life with common sense every day is better than living foolishly? God spoke through King Solomon, Solomon was more concerned about making his people to live not aimlessly but with common sense. God was not only speaking about His people at that time but also for us living today. God knows what is best for us and given His "Wisdom," so to properly apply to our lives. We receive true wisdom from the Lord through His Word, the Bible, our and other's experiences, and knowledge, that we have acquired in our lives.

Upside Down

By Joe Sowell, Our Daily Bread, December 2012 - February 2013

There are a lot of things that intrigue me about Jesus. One of the aspects of His ministry that has always produced jaw-dropping, head scratching responses is His upside-down teaching about life.

As we journey through life, we may get to the point where we think we've got it figured out and our thought patterns and responses for navigating through life are deeply engrained. Yet Jesus interrupts us in the midst of our routines and calls us to a new and better way. But beware! This encounter with the way of Jesus will be challenging.

Consider these paradoxical propositions: to live you must die (Mark8:35); "blessed are those who mourn" (5:4); to rule you must serve (Luke 22:26); and suffering has a purpose (5:10-11).

It is pronouncements like these that make people think Christ is strangely out of touch. But we are the ones out of touch. He is not upside down, we are! We're like children who think they know better than their parents what is best.

No wonder God has told us, "My thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are your ways my ways" (Isa.55:8). So, rather than relying on our mixed-up instincts, let's ask Him to help us reflect His ways.

What may seem upside down to us is right side up to God.

Lord, you know what is best, and you desire to lead us in paths that are right and good. Give us the courage to trust and to follow you in the ways of righteousness for your name's sake. Amen.

Shouting Out of an Invitation

9:1-6) Wisdom has built a palace supported on seven pillars. 2) And has prepared a great banquet, and mixed the wines, 3) and sent out her maidens inviting all to come. She calls from the busiest intersections in the city, 4) "Come, you simple ones without good judgment; 5) come to wisdom's banquet and drink the wines that I have mixed. 6) Leave behind your foolishness and begin to live; learn how to be wise."

8:1-10) Can't you hear the voice of wisdom? She is standing at the city gates and at every fork in the road, and at the door of every house. Listen to what she says: 4, 5) "Listen, men!" she calls. "How foolish and naive you are! Let me give you understanding. O foolish ones, let me show you common sense! 6, 7) Listen to me! For I have important information for you. Everything I say is right and true, for I hate lies and every kind of deception. 8) My advice is wholesome and good. There is nothing of evil in it. 9) My words are plain and clear to anyone with a half a mind - if it is only open! 10) My instruction is far more valuable than silver or gold."

1:20-28) Wisdom shouts in the streets for a hearing. 21) She calls out to crowds along Main Street, and to the judges in their courts, and to everyone in all the land: 22) "You simpletons!" she cries, "how long will you go on being fools? How long will you scoff at wisdom and fight the facts? 23) Come here and listen to me! I'll pour out the spirit of Wisdom upon you, and make you wise. 24) I have called you so often but still you won't come. I have pleaded, but all in vain. 25) For you have spurned my counsel and reproof. 26) Someday you'll be in trouble, and I'll laugh! Mock me, will you? - I'll mock you! 27) When a storm of terror surrounds you, and when you are engulfed by anguish and distress, 28) then I will not answer your cry for help. It will be too late though you search for me ever so anxiously.

1:29-33) "For you closed your eyes to the facts and did not choose to reverence and trust the Lord, 30) and you turned your back on me, spurning my advice. 31) That is why you must eat the bitter fruit of having your own way, and experience the full terrors of the pathway you have chosen. 32) For you turned away from me - to death: your own complacency will kill you. Fools! 33) But all who listen to me shall live in peace and safety, unafraid."

Consider This Thought:

Did you ever know that God's wisdom is calling out to everyone in the world to come to Him? Not only calling from the openness of our streets and highways but secluded and hidden places. Places that you and I would not venture into. I'm speaking of all places because He desires to capture our hearts unto Him. God's wisdom is calling every second of everyday because He cares and loves to have a relationship with everyone. God uses many ways to get His Word out to the world through His church.

The greatest way, God uses to get His Wisdom out into the world, found in the "The Great Commission" of Mark 16:15-20, as Jesus was ascending into Heaven, He addressed us with a proclamation that must be carried out in our lives. And that same Christ gave these gifts to people: He made some prophets, some to go and tell the Good News, and some to care for and teach God's people. Ephesians 4:11 (ERV)

God uses, all these means, to communicate to the world about His word of wisdom, the message of good news, He is here to help and support you through anything in your life. God is reaching out to begin a relationship with you. He desires to be just as close to you, as you are toward your best friend. A friend is a person who you can talk to about anything, share your deepest secrets, or ask for help for any need you may have. God, is a friend too, who is there for you and will never leave or forsake you.

No Simple Recipe

By Bill Crowder, Our Daily Bread, December 2012 – February 2014)

For our grandson's birthday, my wife baked and decorated a gigantic chocolate chip cookie to serve at his party. She got out her cookbook, gathered the ingredients, and began to follow the simple steps involved in making cookies. She followed a simple recipe and everything turned out well.

Wouldn't it be nice if life was like that? Just follow a few easy steps and then enjoy a happy life.

But life is not so simple. We live in a fallen world and there is no easy recipe to follow that will ensure a life free of pain, loss, injustice, or suffering.

In the midst of life's pain, we need the personal care of the Savior who lived in this world and experienced the same struggles we face. Hebrews 4:15 encourages us: "For we do not have a High Priest who cannot sympathized with our weakness, but was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin." Christ, who died to give us life, is completely sufficient to carry us through our heartaches and dark experiences. He has "borne our grief and carried our sorrows". (Isa. 53:4).

Jesus knows there is no simple "recipe" to prevent the heartaches of life, so He entered into them with us. Will we trust Him with our tears and grief?

The Christ who died to give us life

Will carry us through its heartaches.

When the trials of this life make you weary

And your troubles seem too much to bear,

There's a wonderful solace and comfort

In the silent communion of prayer. \---Amon.

# Wisdom is Freely Given

2:6-10) For the Lord grants wisdom! His every word is a treasure of knowledge and understanding. 7, 8) He grants good sense to the godly - His saints. He is their shield, protecting them and guarding their pathway. 9) He shows how to distinguish right from wrong, how to find the right decision every time. 10) For wisdom and truth will enter the very center of your being, filling your life with joy.

8:14-21) "I wisdom, give good advice and common sense. Because of my strength, kings reign in power. I show the judges who is right and who is wrong. 16) Rulers rule well with my help. 17) I love all who love me. Those who search for me shall surely find me. 18) Unending riches, honor, justice and righteousness are mine to distribute. 19) My gifts are better than the purest gold or sterling silver! 20) My paths are those of justice and right. 21) Those who love and follow me are indeed wealthy. I fill their treasuries.

8-33-36) Listen to my counsel - oh, don't refuse it - and be wise. 34) Happy is the man who is so anxious to be with me that he watches for me daily at my gates, or waits for me outside my home! 35) For whoever finds me finds Life and wins approval from the Lord. 36) But the one who misses me has injured himself irreparably. Those who refuse me show that they love death."

3:7-8) Don't be conceited, sure of your own wisdom. Instead, trust and reverence the Lord, and turn your back on evil; when you do that, then you will be given renewed health and vitality.

4:20-22) Listen, son of mine, to what I say. Listen carefully. 21) Keep these thoughts ever in mind; let them penetrate deep within your heart: 22) for they will mean real life for you, and radiant health.

Consider This Thought:

Can you imagine God, all knowing and understanding, not sharing His knowledge and wisdom with you and me? Would that be very discouraging and drive us deeper into the world of fear. Man would be in darkness, stumbling through life, because of sin in his heart. Daily, confusion and disorder would be the norm in life. God's guidance and instruction would be non-existent to overcome our problems and difficulties. Unable to get freed from all the chaos and disappointments created from living under our own power. But God from His infinite wisdom is all Love, Hope and Caring, has freely provided you His Bible, His Word, to receive of His ways and thoughts to live a life of victory.

The Lukewarm Sheep

Contributed By: Jeff, Sermon Central illustrations

Now, for the sake of my illustration, I want to break a flock of sheep down into 3 groups:

1. The first group of sheep had DECIDED to look to Shepherd & follow Him wherever He leads. These are the "Good sheep" who follow the "Good Shepherd. Jesus said: "My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me." John 10:27 KJV

2. The 2nd group wants nothing to do with the Shepherd. They want to run their lives their own way and they deliberately DECIDE to walk away from Him. These are the pagans and atheists of society. They don't want to hear Jesus' voice... they don't want to follow.

3. But the 3rd group DECIDES that they like the Shepherd. They want to hang out with Him... but they don't want to get TOO close to Him. They still want to keep their options open. They want to look for their own grass once in a while. They want to nibble at a little of this and a little of that...

George Orwell once observed: "On the whole human beings want to be good, but not too good, and not quite all the time."

That's the problem with this 3rd group of sheep. They like being close to Jesus... just not too much, and not just all the time. And because they have this "loose" connection to the shepherd they're the ones who end up wandering off. They're the ones that end up getting lost. They're just close enough to the Shepherd to feel secure. And just far enough away to not hear His voice. "My sheep hear my voice... and they follow me." says Jesus. John 10:27

And so, they wander off into their own little world, and they end up getting hurt and making bad decisions. And those bad decisions cause them pain and heartache. As Proverbs 13:15 says, "...the way of transgressors is hard." (KJV)

Because they've chosen NOT to listen to the Good Shepherd and to follow Him closely, they are without the protection of that Shepherd and open to the attacks of Satan and this world.

# Seeking Love in the Wrong Places

Guard Your Affections

7:6-12) I was looking out the window of my house one day, 7) and saw a simple-minded lad, a young man lacking common sense, 8, 9) walking at twilight down the street to the house of his wayward girl, a prostitute. 10) She approached him, saucy and pert, and dressed seductively. 11, 12) She was the brash, course type, seen often in the streets and markets, soliciting at every corner for men to be her lovers.

7:13-20) She put her arms around him and kissed him, and with a saucy look she said, 14) "I've decided to forget our quarrel! 15) I was just coming to look for you and here you are! 16, 17) My bed is spread with lovely, colored sheets of the finest linen imported from Egypt, perfumed with myrrh, aloes and cinnamon. 18) Come on, let's take our fill of love until morning, 19) for my husband is away on a long trip. 20) He has taken a wallet full of money with him, and won't return for several days."

7:21-23) So she seduced him with her pretty speech, her coaxing and her wheedling, until he yielded to her. He couldn't resist her flattery. 22) He followed her as an ox going to the butcher, or as a stag that is trapped, 23) waiting to be killed with an arrow through its heart. He was as a bird flying into a snare, not knowing the fate awaiting it there.

5:1-6) Listen to me, my son! I know what I am saying; listen! 2) Watch yourself, lest you be indiscreet and betray some vital information. 3) For the lips of a prostitute are as sweet as honey, and smooth flattery is her stock in trade. 4) But afterwards only a bitter conscience is left to you, sharp as a double-edged sword. 5) She leads you down to death and hell. 6) For she does not know the path to life. She staggers down a crooked trail, and doesn't realize where it leads.

9:13-18) A prostitute is loud and brash, and never has enough of lust and shame. 14) She sits at the door of her house or stands at the street corners of the city, 15) whispering to men going by, and to those minding their own business. 16) "Come home with me, "she urges simpletons, 17) "Stolen melons are the sweetest; stolen apples taste the best!" 18) But they don't realize that her former quests are now citizens of hell.

5:7-14) Young men, listen to me, and never forget what I'm about to say: 8) Run from her! Don't go near her house, 9) lest you fall to her temptation and lose your honor, and give the remainder of your life to the cruel and merciless; 10) lest strangers obtain your wealth, and you become a slave of foreigners. 11) Lest afterwards you groan in anguish and in shame, when syphilis consumes your body, 12) and you say, "Oh, if only I had listened! If only I had not demanded my own way! 13) Oh, why wouldn't I take advice? Why was I so stupid? 14) For now I must face public disgrace."

6:25-31) Don't lust for her beauty. Don't let her coyness seduce you. 26) For a prostitute will bring a man to poverty, and an adulteress may cost him his very life. 27) Can a man hold fire against his chest and not be burned? 28) Can he walk on hot coals and not blister his feet? 29) So it is with the man who commits adultery with another's wife. He shall not go unpunished for his sin. 30) Excuses might even be found for a thief, if he steals when he is starving! 31) But even so, he is fined seven times as much as he stole, though it may mean selling everything in his house to pay it back.

5:15-21) Drink from your own well, my son - be faithful and true to your wife. 16) Why should you beget children with women of the street? 17) Why share your children with those outside your home? 18) Let your manhood be a blessing, rejoice in the wife of your youth. 19) Let her charms and tender embrace satisfy you. Let her love alone fill you with delight. 20) Why delight yourself with prostitutes, embracing what isn't your? 21) For God is closely watching you, and he weighs carefully everything you do.

6:32-35) But the man who commits adultery is an utter fool, for he destroys his own soul. 33) Wounds and constant disgrace are his lot, 34) for the woman's husband will be furious in his jealousy, and he will have no mercy on you in his day of vengeance. 35) You won't be able to buy him off no matter what you offer.

5:22-23) The wicked man is doomed by his own sins; they are ropes that catch and hold him. 23) He shall die because he will not listen to the truth; he has let himself be led away into incredible folly

Consider This Thought:

God here draws a very vivid picture of how we should not get ourselves involved; much more not even think about our hearts falling for love in the wrong places. It is so easy to get ourselves entangled in our thoughts, selfishly desiring that closeness and affection from the opposite sex. But our imaginations and thoughts must be constrained before they're followed by an action. God has reserved our love for someone of the opposite sex to occur only and through the sanctity of marriage

Have you ever had temptation tugging in your heart about meeting someone; especially, when you are lonely and need of love? This story may be either something close to what has happened to you or you have played this in your mind. In either case, temptation grips you, when the desire to be with the opposite sex burns in your heart. You must remember that if you act upon your thoughts, come consequences.

"You have heard that it was said, 'You must not commit adultery.' But I tell you that if a man looks at a woman and wants to sin sexually with her, he has already committed that sin with her in his mind." Matthew 5:28 (ERV) God does not desire for men or woman to look at the opposite sex with a lust in your heart for that person. Now, it is allowed to see the attractiveness in another person but not to take an active role in visualizing yourself having sex with that person in your mind. Instead, I find myself admiring God for all His beauty, reflected in everything, he has created in the world.

"God wants you to be holy. He wants you to stay away from sexual sins. God wants each one of you to learn to control your own body. Use your body in a way that is holy and that gives honor to God. Don't let your desires control you like the people who don't know God." According to 1Thessalonians 4:3–5 (ERV), God desires for you to remain without blemish and pure before Him until you get married. Marriage is not just a piece of paper but a covenant. God created sex for a man and a woman to have a family but only during marriage. Committing adultery is the "seven commandment" that God instituted to not disobey.

Sexual Purity

_Leading the Way_ by Paul Borthwick, Navpress, 1989, pp. 120-121

We can supplement our accountability to others by reading slowly through literature designed to challenge our Christian maturity. Consider, as an example, these questions related to sexual purity that I had to read carefully as I read Kent Hughes' Liberating Ministry from the Success Syndrome:

1. Are we being desensitized by the present evil world? Do things that once shocked us now pass us by with little notice? Have our sexual ethics slackened?

2. Where do our minds wander when we have no duties to perform?

3. What are we reading? Are there books or magazines or files in our libraries that we want no one else to see?

4. What are we renting at the local video stores? How many hours do we spend watching TV? How much adultery did we watch last week? How many murders? How many did we watch with our children?

5. How many chapters of the Bible did we read last week?

Instructions Not To Forget

6:20-24) Young men, obey your father and your mother. 21) Tie their instructions around your finger so you won't forget. Take to heart all of their advice. 22) Every day and all night long their counsel will lead you and save you from harm; when you wake up in the morning, let their instruction guide you into the new day. 23) For their advice is a beam of light directed into the dark corners of your mind to warn you of danger and to give you a good life. 24) Their counsel will keep you far away from prostitutes with all their flatteries, and unfaithful wives of other men.

7:24-27) Listen to me, young men, and not only listen but obey. 25) Don't let your desires get out of hand; don't let yourself think about her; don't go near her; stay away from where she walks, lest she tempt you and seduce you. 26) For she has been the ruin of multitudes - a vast host of men have been her victims. 27) If you want to find the road to hell, look for her house.

7:1-5) Follow my advice, my son, always keep it in mind and stick to it. 2) Obey me and live! Guard my words as your most precious possession. 3) Write them down, and also keep them deep within your heart; 4) Love wisdom like a sweetheart; make her a beloved member of your family. 5) Let her hold you back from visiting a prostitute, from listening to her flattery

2:16-17) Only wisdom from the Lord can save a man from the flattery of prostitutes; these girls have abandoned their husbands and flouted the laws of God. 18) Their houses lie along the road to death and hell. 19) The men who enter them are doomed. None of these men will ever be the same again.

4:23-27) Above all else, guard your affections. For they influence everything else in your life. 24) Spurn the careless kiss of a prostitute. Stay far from her. 25) Look straight ahead; don't even turn your head to look. 26) Watch your step. Stick to the path and be safe. 27) Don't side-track; pull back your foot from danger

Consider This Thought:

Can you remember the many times your Father or Mother desired you to remember right from wrong? Each day, you knew that your parents loved you so much that they did not want anything to go wrong in your life. Each day, they wanted to know where you were going and who you were going to go see. "Always remember this teaching. Don't forget it. It is the key to life, so guard it well." According to Proverbs 4:13 (ERV), you must be open to listen and learn, not stupid and stubborn is what the Bible says about a person who is foolish.

God, has given each of us a conscience, so you can hear it in your mind (small voice) when you are about to do something that is wrong and about to violate our heart condition. Keep and guard your heart with all vigilance and above all that you guard, for out of it flows the springs of life. Proverbs 4:23 (Amp)

Remember, you are always going to be under an "Authority figure" in life beginning with your parents. Additional to your parents, other "Authority figures" will come into your life, a teacher, coach, policeman, employer, etc. Under these authority figures we learn respect and obedience, and become believers who are responsibility and accountability for their actions. These are the virtues that develop character of strength that will benefit us in all facets of life.

Do I have an uneasy Conscience about this Activity

Greg Laurie, How to Find God, Compact New Testament, Bible

When it comes to participating in questionable activities, it is easy to rationalize joining in because others are doing it. Yet this verse (Romans 14:23) places the responsibility of your choice squarely on your shoulders. You may protest and say, well, so and so is doing it!" But you are not that person. You must be obedient to what God tells to do.

How do you know when you should not participate in a certain activity? God's Holy Spirit will often give you an uneasy conscience about something you should not be doing. For example, you may have a sense that you are in the wrong place, with the wrong people, about to do the wrong thing. Or, you may have a lack of peace in your heart about an activity in which you are participating. When this happens, it is up to you to pay attention to your conscience and follow through by being obedient to God.

# Good Judgment and Common Sense

3:1-6) My son, never forget the things I've taught you. If you want a long and satisfying life, closely follow my instructions. 3) Never forget to be truthful and kind. Hold these virtues tightly. Write them deep within your heart. 4, 5) If you want favor with both God and man, and a reputation for good judgment and common sense, then trust the Lord completely; don't ever trust yourself. 6) In everything you do, put God first, and He will direct you and crown your efforts with success.

3:21-26) Have two goals: wisdom - that is, knowing and doing right - and common sense. Don't let them slip away, 22) for they fill you with living energy, and are a feather in your cap. 23) They keep you safe from defeat and disaster and from stumbling off the trail. 24, 25, 26) With them on guard you can sleep without fear; and you need not be afraid of disaster or the plots of wicked men; for the Lord is with you; He protects you.

3:13-17) The man who knows right from wrong and has good judgments and common sense is happier than the man who is immensely rich! For such wisdom is far more valuable than precious jewels. Nothing else compares with it. 16, 17) Wisdom gives:

A long, good life Riches Pleasure Honor Peace

2:20-22) Follow the steps of the godly instead, and stay on the right path, 21) for only good men enjoy life to the full; 22) evil men lose the good things they might have had; and they themselves shall be destroyed.

4:18-19) But the good man walks along in the ever brightening light of God's favor; the dawn gives way to morning splendor. 19) While evil man gropes and stumbles in the dark.

1:10-14) If young toughs tell you, "Come and join us" - turn your back on them! 11) "We'll hide and rob and kill," they say; 12) "Good or bad, we'll treat them all alike! 13) And the loot we'll get! All kinds of stuff! 14) Come on, throw in your lot with us; we'll split with you in equal shares."

1:15-19) Don't do it, son! Stay far from men like that, 16) for crime is their way of life, and murder is their specialty. 17) When a bird sees a trap being set, it stays away, 18) but not these men; they trap themselves! They lay a booby trap for their own lives. 19) Such is the fate of all who live by violence and murder. They will die a violent death.

4:14-17) Don't do as the wicked do. 15) Avoid their haunts - turn away, go somewhere else, 16) for evil men don't sleep until they've done their evil deed for the day. They can't rest unless they cause someone to stumble or fall. 17) They eat and drink wickedness and violence!

2:11-15) You will be given the sense to stay away from evil men who want you to be their partners in crime - men who turn from the God's ways to walk down dark and evil paths, 14) and exult in doing wrong, for they thoroughly enjoy their sins. 15) Everything they do is crooked and wrong.

6:12-15) Let me describe for you a worthless and a wicked man; first he is a constant liar; he signals his true intentions to his friends with his eyes and feet and fingers. 14) Next, his heart is full of rebellion. And he spends his time thinking of all the evil he can do, and stirring up discontent. 15) But he will be destroyed suddenly, broken beyond hope of healing.

6:16-19) For there are six things the Lord hates - no seven:

Haughtiness

Lying

Murdering

Plotting evil

Eagerness to do wrong

A false witness

Sowing discord among brothers

Consider This Thought:

Here God is comparing Godly men to wicked men, giving you a contrast between both groups. God is telling us to get common sense and understanding, for your life to go well, by reading His Word. As you read His Word you will begin to grow and become more like Christ, the Holy Spirit will teach, correct, rebuke, and train you, in the ways you should go. If you will remain in Him; apparently, fruit of the Spirit will become evident in your life. "But the fruit that the Spirit produces is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. There is no law against these kinds of things." Galatians 5:22-23 (ERV).

Interesting point, can you ever imagine God Hating certain things? These things or areas, that our society is generally involved in, as people living in this world, that is sad. Our close relationship to Lord will redirect our life from the list of item that God hates. Closeness to God means to stay in communication with Him through prayer, his communication to us, His Word, training to be a person or servant that attends church regularly, and is a part of a Bible studying group.

Slightly Soiled

Our Daily Bread, August 16

Two theological students were walking along a street in the Whitechapel district of London, a section where old and used clothing is sold. "What a fitting illustration all this makes!" said one of the students as he pointed to a suit of clothes hanging on a rack by a window. A sign on it read: "Slightly Soiled&md; Greatly Reduced in Price." "That's it exactly," he continued. "We get soiled by gazing at a vulgar picture, reading a coarse book, or allowing ourselves a little indulgence in dishonest or lustful thoughts; and so when the time comes for our character to be appraised, we are greatly reduced in value. Our purity, our strength is gone. We are just part and parcel of the general, shopworn stock of the world." Yes, continual slight deviations from the path of right may greatly reduce our usefulness to God and to our fellowman. In fact, these little secret sins can weaken our character so that when we face a moral crisis, we cannot stand the test. As a result, we go down in spiritual defeat because we have been careless about little sins.

After a violent storm one night, a large tree, which over the years had become a stately giant, was found lying across the pathway in a park. Nothing but a splintered stump was left.

Closer examination showed that it was rotten at the core because thousands of tiny insects had eaten away at its heart. The weakness of that tree was not brought on by the sudden storm; it began the very moment the first insect nested within its bark. With the Holy Spirit's help, let's be very careful to guard our purity.

# Nuggets of Truth

3:11-12) Young man, do not resent it when God chastens and corrects you, for His punishment is proof of His love. Just as a father punishes a son he delights in to make him better, so the Lord corrects you.

3:9-10) Honor the Lord by giving Him the first part of all your income, and he will fill your barns with wheat and barley and overflow your wine vats with the finest wines.

3:27-28) Don't withhold repayment of your debts. Don't say, "Some other time," if you can pay now. 29) Don't plot against your neighbor; he is trusting you. 30) Don't get into needless fights. 31) Don't envy violent men. Don't copy their ways. 32) For such men are an abomination to the Lord, but He gives His friendship to the godly.

3:33-35) The curse of God is on the wicked, but His blessings is on the upright. 34) The Lord mocks at mockers, but helps the humble. 35) The wise are promoted to honor, but fools are promoted to shame!

6:1-5) Son, if you endorse a note for someone you hardly know, guaranteeing his debt, you are in serious trouble. 2) You may have trapped yourself by your agreement. 3) Quick! Get out of it if you possibly can! Swallow your pride; don't let embarrassment stand in the way. Go and beg to have your name erased. 4) Don't put it off. Do it now. Don't rest until you do. 5) If you can get out of this trap you have saved yourself like a deer that escapes from a hunter, or a bird from the net.

6:6-11) Take a lesson from the ants, you lazy fellow. Learn from their ways and be wise! 7) For though they have no king to make them work, 8) yet they labor hard all summer, gathering food for the winter. 9) But you - all you do is sleep. When will you wake up? 10) "Let me sleep a little longer!" Sure, just a little more! 11) And as you sleep, poverty creeps upon you like a robber and destroys you; want attacks you in full armor.

Consider This Thought:

God knows you completely, for he created you, knows your past, present, and your future, and desires you to have peace and joy in your life. For God, is all-knowing, (Omniscient), all-powerful (Omnipotent), and all-present (Omnipresent). There is nothing is this universe; especially, in this world that can compete with God goodness and greatness. If God is superior to everyone living on this earth, I don't understand why we don't connect with him and involve Him in everything, we do in life. It is like, if you desire to obtain the best player for your team, lawyer to handle your case, or mechanic for your race car, why not connect with the elite in those areas. The Bible says, "Just as the heavens are higher than the earth, so my ways are higher than your ways and my thoughts are higher than your thoughts." Isaiah 55:9 (ERV)

He knows our future. He is our solution. "There is no one wise enough to make a plan that can succeed if the Lord is against it. You can prepare your horses for battle, but only the Lord can give you the victory." Proverbs 21:30-31 (ERV)

Vacant Homes, Vacant Lives

Steve Shepherd, Our Walk in This World, April 4, 2011)

TIFTON, GA — The most interesting thing about Tifton is an abandoned Victorian house filled with thousands of bats. Tift County declared the once-elegant house in the town's historic district off limits after a bat specialist said that maybe 20,000 bats had moved in, apparently for good. Now, teenagers call it the bat house. People talk about the smell, which is an unholy mix of animal urine and decaying wood. "In the summer, ooh, does that place reek," said Linda Turner, 69, a retired nurse and neighbor. "You ain't smelled nothing until you come back here on a hot day."

Brothers and Sisters, I'm not going to visit that bat house. WHAT A SIGHT AND WHAT A STINK IT MUST BE! Vacant houses get infiltrated with all kinds of creatures and probably not just bats. And many of these creatures make a mess, create a big stink, and eventually ruin that dwelling.

But it doesn't just happen with vacant houses, it also happens with vacant lives! If a person doesn't fill their life with good stuff, the bad stuff and sometimes, the evil stuff will move in and take over.

What's going on in your house? That is, the house you live in, the fleshly body you live in? Who has moved in? Who has taken over your residence and controlling your life? God wants us to stay clean in this world and that will only happen when we let Him move in, that is, when we fill our lives with worship, prayer and service.

Thy word have I hide in my heart that I might not sin against thee! Ps. 119:11. The Bible will keep you from sin or sin will keep you from the Bible!

# Benefits of Wisdom

7) Determination to be wise is the first step toward becoming wise! And with your wisdom, develop common sense and good judgment. 8, 9) If you exalt wisdom, she will exalt you. Hold her fast and she will lead you to great honor; she will place a beautiful crown upon your head. 10) My son, listen to me and do as I say, and you will have a long, good life.

2:1-5) Every young man who listens to me and obeys my instructions will be given wisdom and good sense. 3, 4, 5) Yes, if you want insight and discernment, and are searching for them as you would for lost money or hidden treasure, then wisdom will be given you knowledge of God himself; you will soon learn the importance of reverence for the Lord and of trusting Him.

4:11-13) I would have you learn this great fact: that a life of doing right is the wisest life there is. 12) if you live that kind of life, you'll not limp or stumble as you run. 13) Carry out my instructions; don't forget them, for they will lead you to real living.

8:11-13) For the value of wisdom is far above rubies; nothing can be compared with it. 12) Wisdom and good judgment live together, for wisdom knows where to discover knowledge and understanding. 13) If anyone respects and fears God, he will hate evil. For wisdom hates pride, arrogance, corruption and deceit of every kind.

9:7-12) If you rebuke a mocker, you will only get a smart retort; yes he will snarl at you. So don't bother with him; he will only hate you for trying to help him. But a wise man, when rebuked, will love you all the more. 9) Teach a wise man, and he will be the wiser; teach a good man, and he will learn more; 10) for the reverence and fear of God are basic to all wisdom. Knowing God results in every other kind of understanding. 11) I, Wisdom, will make the hours of your day more profitable and the years of your life more fruitful. 12) Wisdom is its own reward, and if you scorn her, you hurt only yourself.

Consider This Thought:

Is it nice to be able to live longer, good health, protection, have favor with God and man. These are just some of the benefits of knowing and applying God's Word to our lives. I do not know about you, but this is a great package that God offers to those who are close to God.

Having good judgment and common sense are very valuable attributes to have in life. Can you just imagine the difficulties and problems you can avoid and time spent to resolve those kinds of situations, when you can spend your life on other enjoyable things that are offered in life. Even being immensely rich, you can go through the same struggles, maybe in larger scale, taking away your time for a happier life. Life is too short, and involved in such predicaments.

"Do any of you need wisdom? Ask God for it. He is generous and enjoys giving to everyone. So he will give you wisdom. But when you ask God, you must believe. Don't doubt him. Whoever doubts is like a wave in the sea that is blown up and down by the wind." James 1: 5, 6 (ERV)

Set Apart

Cherie Fresonke, Go in Peace For Teens Paperback, Chapter 6

God desires for you to ask Him for His wisdom with all your heart. This is similar to when you were a child and you desire to have a bicycle because all the other children in the neighborhood had one. I'm sure, you did not asked your Dad for a bicycle halfheartedly but with your whole being. Why because you desired to have one, your very own, and to be able to ride with all the other children in the neighborhood. After you asked him, I'm sure, you had all the faith in the world that your Dad would buy you one.

Where have you been dwelling? Based on the following two descriptions below:

Outer Court Christian – You are saved, but that's it! You have received the sacrifice that Jesus made on the cross for you. You are washed clean from your sins, but you are missing out on all that God has for you.

Holy Place Christian – You spend time reading God's Word and praying. However, you are still missing the most important aspect of your relationship with God: intimacy. Because of this, there is no longer lasting contentment in your life. You continue to run after this or that to find satisfaction and pleasure. You don't look to God to be all and all.

Walk Worthy

Cherie Fresonke, Go in Peace For Teens Paperback, Chapter 7

Now that we have looked at who we are in Christ positionally, it is time to discuss the spiritual battle that surrounds you and me that we cannot see. I this way, we will be prepared and equipped to practically live out who we are in Christ.

We are children of the King, and anytime the throne is involved, there will be warfare. Satan wants to trip us up. He wants to cause us to stumble and fall. He does not want us to walk worthy for our calling. Remember, he thinks up the lie, the world sells the lie, and, when we are not prepared and equipped for battle, our flesh buys the lie. In view of this, it is important to learn how to fight the good fight.

Each of us will struggle with the thoughts of our heart. We will struggle with thoughts of our minds. And we will struggle with the actions of our steps. But God has made a way for you and me to be victorious. He has made a way so that we are able to walk worthy of our calling. The battle belongs to Him. Psalm 24:8 declares this truth.

Who is this King of Glory? The lord, strong and mighty in battle!

To set the stage for this, let's go to our story of Queen Victoria. Remember that when Victoria was young and discovered for the first time that she would one day become be the queen of England her response was, "Then I will be good!" The moment she discovered the truth of who she was, she determined to be the person whom her birth and position called her to be. In her heart and her mind, she determined to walk worthy of her calling in a practical manner. Her choice would greatly impact her life and the lives of everyone around her.

You and I also have a choice. We can make the wise choice to live up our position in Christ by determining in our hearts and minds to walk worthy of our calling. Or we can make the foolish choice to live our lives by our feelings and desires. Let me explain.

Many times, we make choices based on our feelings and desires instead of on the truth of who we are in Christ. I have known many people who made some very foolish choices based on their feelings and desires.

Consider This Thought:

We live in an imperfect world, caused by sin coming into the world through the fall of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, when they were created; initially, in a perfect world. The disobeying of God's instruction to not eat of the tree of good and evil was the end of this perfect world. Essentially, Eve was tempted by Satan, the serpent of darkness, to eat of the very tree that God said not to, Eve convinced Adam to eat of the fruit and both sinned against God. This disobedience created consequences, a curse, to everyone born and living in this world will exist beyond Adam and Eve.

Sin begins, exactly when you recognize right from wrong, you become responsible and accountable for your wrong doings. This begins, our life's journey with our sinful nature, causing sinning to abound, and for us to live in darkness. Sin brings evilness, sickness, and diseases, etc. into this dark world. The existence of sin causes destruction to the world (us) that brings all kinds of problems and issues that we face in life, today.

The coming of Jesus, second Adam, reverses the curse of disobedience by Adam and Eve and brings re-construction or light into the world (us). Jesus loves us, God of Light, dying upon the cross and shed His Blood for our sins and carried our sicknesses and diseases so the world (us) can have a an opportunity to be forgiven of sins (made pure) (John 3:16) and acquire healing (2Peter 2:4).

If you openly say, "Jesus is Lord" and believe in your heart that God raised him from the death, you will be saved. Yes, we believe in Jesus deep in our hearts, and so we are made right with God. And openly say that we believe in him, and so we are saved." Romans 10:9 (ERV)

Right living for the Lord, trusting Him, as a child of God, we are confident in our hearts that He will help and support us live, a life that is pleasing to Him. Jesus desires we live in peace so to do His "Will." The serving of others is serving the Lord, this is his Will. A God that will not forsake us or leave us will provide us with peace that goes beyond our understanding, so we can live for Him. When we live in peace, every day, His love inspires us live and work for the Lord, as Servants, Ministers, and Witnesses to others in the world; especially, our own places of influence.

Story Time

By Joe Stowell (Our Daily Bread, Dec 2012 – February 2013)

As a child I loved when my Mom read to me. I would sit on her lap and listen to every word. As she read, I examined the details of every picture and waited eagerly to hear what was on the next page.

Have you ever heard ever thought about the idea that our lives tell a story? In every situation – good, bad, or indifferent --- people around us are watching and listening to the story we are telling. Our story is communicated not only through our words but also through our attitudes and actions as we respond to life's buffetings and blessings. Our children and grandchildren, spouses, neighbors, and co-workers can all observe the story we're telling.

Paul reminds us that as that as followers of Jesus, our lives are letters "known and read by all men; . . . an epistle of Christ . . . written not with ink but by the Spirit of the Living God" (2Cor. 3:2-3).

What is the story that those around us are reading through the letters of our lives? Stories of forgiveness? Compassion? Generosity? Patience? Love?

If you've experienced the joy of a grace-filled life that comes from the Spirit of the God in you, then welcome to the joy of being one God's great storytellers!

Let your life tell the story of Christ's love and mercy to the world around you.

Dear Lord, we love you. We want our lives to

tell the story of your goodness and grace.

May we be a bold witness of you,

Use us in ways we never thought possible.

# Advice/Counsel

_Be smart, be intelligent, and be informed._

– _Tony Allasandra_

Plans go wrong with too few counselors; many counselors bring success.

Proverbs 15:21

Stop listening to teaching that contradicts what you know is right.

Proverbs 19:27

Don't visit your neighbor too often, or you will outwear your welcome.

Proverbs 25:17

# Bribes

_Success is the child of drudgery and perseverance. It cannot be coaxed or bribed; pay the price and it is yours_

– _Orison Swett Marden (Corruption & Failure)_

A bribe works like magic. Whoever uses it will prosper. (This is perversion of justice and strictly forbided)

Proverbs 17:8

It is wrong to accept a bribe to twist justice.

Proverbs 17:23

A bribe does wonders; it will bring you before men of importance.

Proverbs 18:16

An angry man may be silenced by a bribe, while the good man loves truth and justice. But the evil man fears these beyond all else, for they spell his doom.

Proverbs 21:14, 15

# Business

_Those that despise people will never get the best out of others and themselves._

– _Alexis de Tocqueville (Management)_

The Lord demands fairness in every business deal. He established this principle.

Proverbs 16:11

A faithful employee is as refreshing as a cool day in the hot summertime.

Proverbs 25:13

Putting confidence in an unreliable man is like chewing with a sore tooth, or trying to run on a broken foot.

Proverbs 25:19

Riches can disappear fast. And the king's crown doesn't stay in his family forever - so watch your business interest closely. Know the state of your flocks and your herds; then there will be lamb's wool enough for clothing, and goat's milk enough for food for all your household after the hay is harvested, and the new crop appears, and the mountain grasses are gathered in.

Proverbs 27:23-27

# Character

_His reputation is what men say he is. That can be damaged; but reputation is for time, character is for eternity_

– _John B Gough (Reputation)_

Your own soul is nourished when you are kind; it is destroyed when you are cruel.

Proverbs 11:17

A relaxed attitude lengthens a man's life; jealousy rots it away.

Proverbs 14:30

It is better to eat soup with someone you love than steak with someone you hate.

Proverbs 15:17

While hair is a crown of glory and is seen most among the godly.

Proverbs 16:31

It is better to be slow-tempered then famous; it is better to have self-control than to control an army.

Proverbs 16:32

The intelligent man is always open to new ideas. In fact he looks for them.

Proverbs 18:14

The glory of young men is their strength; of old men, their experience.

Proverbs 20:29

If you must choose, take a good name rather than great riches; for to be held in loving esteem is better than silver and gold.

Proverbs 22:1

Be patient and you will finally win, for a soft tongue can break hard bones.

Proverbs 25:15

A mirror reflects a man's face, but what he is really like is shown by the kind of friends he chooses.

Proverbs 27:19

The purity of silver and gold can be tested in a crucible, but a man is tested by his reaction to men's praise.

Proverbs 27:21

A man who robs his parents and says, "What's wrong with that?" is no better than a murderer.

Proverbs 28:24

# Cheerful/Uncheerful

_Cheerfulness, sir, is the principle ingredient in the composition of health._

– _Arthur Murphy (Health)_

Laughter cannot mask a heavy heart. When the laughter ends, grief remains.

Proverbs 14:13

A happy face means a glad heart; a sad face means a breaking heart.

Proverbs 15:13

When a man is gloomy, everything seems to go wrong; when he is cheerful, everything seems right!

Proverbs 15:15

A cheerful heart does good like medicine, but a broken spirit makes one sick.

Proverbs 17:22

Being happy-go-lucky around a person, whose heart is as bad as stealing his jacket in the cold weather, or rubbing salt in his wounds.

Proverbs 25:21, 22

# Children

_It takes three to make a child._

– _E. E. (Edward Estlin) Cummings (Children)_

Happy is the man with a level-headed son; sad the mother of a rebel.

Proverbs 10:1

If you refuse to discipline your son, it proves you don't love him; for if you love him you will be prompt to punish him.

Proverbs 13:24

An old man's grandchildren are his crowning glory. A child's glory is his father.

Proverbs 17:6

A son who mistreats his father or mother is a public disgrace.

Proverbs 19:26

The character of even a child can be known by the way he acts - whether he does is pure and right.

Proverbs 20:11

Teach a child to choose the right path, and when he is older he will remain upon it.

Proverbs 22:6

My son, how happy I will be if you turn out to be sensible! It will be a public honor to me.

Proverbs 27:11

# Consignment/Loan

The creditor hath a better memory than the debtor.

– _James Howell (Debt/Borrower)_

Be sure you know a person well before you vouch for his credit! Better refuse than suffer later.

Proverbs 11:15

It is poor judgment to countersign another's note, to become responsible for his debts.

Proverbs 17:18

It is risky to make loans to strangers!

Proverbs 20:16

Unless you have the extra cash on hand, don't countersign a note. Why risk everything you own? They'll even take you bed!

Proverbs 22:26, 27

The world's poorest credit risk is the man who agrees to pay a stranger's debts.

Proverbs 27:13

# Control of God

Of the events of life we may have some control, but over the law of its progress none.

– _John W. Draper (Change)_

The Lord is watching everywhere and keeps His eye on both the evil and the good.

Proverbs 15:3

We can make our plans, but the final outcome is in God's hands.

Proverbs 16:1

We can always "prove" that we are right, but is the Lord convinced?

Proverbs 16:2

The Lord has made everything for His own purposes - even the wicked, for punishment.

Proverbs 16:4

We toss the coin, but it is the Lord who controls its decision.

Proverbs 16:33

A father can give his sons homes and riches, but only the Lord can give them understanding wives.

Proverbs 19:14

Man proposes, but God disposes.

Proverbs 19:21

A man's conscience is the Lord's searchlight exposing his hidden motives.

Proverbs 20:27

We can justify our every deed but God looks at our motives.

Proverbs 21:2

No one, regardless of how shrewd or well-advised he is, can stand against the Lord.

Proverbs 21:30

Go ahead and prepare for the conflict, but victory comes from God.

Proverbs 21:31

# Curses

_We use our tongues to praise our Lord and Father, but then we curse people who were created in God's likeness._ _These praises and curses come from the same mouth._ _My brothers and sisters, this should not happen. Do good water and bad water flow from the same spring? Of course not._

– _Bible (James 3:9-11)_

Curses chase sinners, while blessings chase the righteous.

Proverbs 13:21

If you repay evil for good, a curse is upon your home.

Proverbs 17:13

God puts out the light of the man who curses his father or mother.

Proverbs 20:20

If you shout a pleasant greeting to a friend too early in the morning, he will count it as a curse!

Proverbs 27:14

A curse on those who lead astray the godly. But men who encourage the upright to do good shall be given a worthwhile reward.

Proverbs 28:10

# Deceit/Lies

_There is no lie that a man will not believe; and there is no man who does not believe many lies; and there is no man who believes only lies._

– _John Sterling (Deception/Lying)_

Deceit fills hearts that are plotting for evil; joy fills hearts that are planning for good!

Proverbs 12:20

"Utterly worthless!" says the buyer as he haggles over the price. But afterwards he brags about his bargain!

Proverbs 20:14

Telling lies about someone is as harmful as hitting him with an axe, wounding with a sword, or shooting him with a sharp arrow.

Proverbs 25:18

# Discipline

_You never will be the person you can be if pressure, tension and discipline are taken out of your life._

James G Bilkey (Difficulty)

Discipline your son in his early years while there is hope. If you don't you will ruin his life.

Proverbs 19:18

Punishment that hurts chases evil from the heart.

Proverbs 20:30

A youngster's heart is filled with rebellion, but punishment will drive it out of him.

Proverbs 22:15

Don't fail to correct your children; discipline won't hurt them! They won't die if you use a stick on them! Punishment will keep them out of hell.

Proverbs 23:13, 14

Discipline your son and he will give you happiness and peace of mind.

Proverbs 29:17

Sometimes mere words are not enough - discipline is needed. For the words may not be heeded.

Proverbs 29:19

# Drink/Drunk

_Drink is the curse of the land, it makes you fight with your neighbor. It makes you shoot at your landlord and it makes you miss him._

\- Anonymous (Irish Proverb)

Wine gives false courage; hard liquor leads to brawls; what fools men are to let it master them, making them reel drunkenly down the street.

Proverbs 20:1

Oh my son, be wise and stay in God's paths; don't carouse with drunkards and gluttons, for they are on their way to poverty. And remember that too much sleep clothes a man with rags.

Proverbs 23:19-21

Whose heart is filled with anguish and sorrow? Who is always fighting and quarreling? Who is the man with blood shot eyes and many wounds? It is the one who spends long hours in the tavern, trying out new mixtures. Don't let the sparkle and the smooth taste of strong wine deceive you.

Proverbs 23:29-31

For in the end it bites like a poisonous serpent; it stings like an adder.

Proverbs 23:32

You will see hallucinations and have delirium tremens, and you will say foolish, silly things that would embarrass you to no end when sober. You will stagger like a sailor tossed at sea, clinging to a swaying mast. And afterwards you will say, "I didn't even know it when they beat me up...Let's go and have another drink!"

Proverbs 23:33-35

# Evil/Wicked

_Every year of my life I grow more convinced that it is wisest and best to fix our attention on the beautiful and the good, and dwell as little as possible on the evil and the false._

– _Richard Cecil (Concentration)_

The wicked flee when no one is chasing them! But the godly are bold as lions!

Proverbs 28:1

The wicked man's fears will all come true, and so will the good man's hopes.

Proverbs 10:24

Disaster strikes like a cyclone and the wicked are whirled away. But the good man has a strong anchor.

Proverbs 10:25

When an evil man dies, his hopes all perish, for they are based upon this earthly life.

Proverbs 11:7

The evil man gets rich for the moment, but the good man's reward lasts forever.

Proverbs 11:18

You can be very sure that the evil man will not go unpunished forever. And you can also be very sure that God will rescue the children of the godly.

Proverbs 11:21

Wickness never brings real success; only the godly have that.

Proverbs 12:3

The wicked accuse; the godly defend.

Proverbs 12:6

The wicked shall perish; the godly shall stand.

Proverbs 12:7

Wickness never brings real success; only the godly have that.

Proverbs 12:3

The work of the wicked will perish; the work of the godly will flourish.

Proverbs 14:11

Evil men bow before the godly.

Proverbs 14:19

Those who plot evil shall wander away and be lost, but those who plan good shall be granted mercy and quietness.

Proverbs 14:22

An evil man sows strife; gossip separates the best of friends.

Proverbs 16:28

Wickedness loves company - and leads others into sin.

Proverbs 16:29

The wicked man stares into space with pursed lips; deep in thought, planning his evil deeds.

Proverbs 16:30

The wicked enjoy fellowship with others who are wicked; liars enjoy liars.

Proverbs 17:4

The wicked live for rebellion! They shall be severely punished.

Proverbs 17:11

The Lord despises those who say that bad is good, and good is bad.

Proverbs 17:15

An evil man is suspicious of everyone and tumbles into constant trouble.

Proverbs 17:20

Because the wicked are unfair, their violence boomerangs and destroys them.

Proverbs 21:7

A man is known by his actions; an evil man lives an evil life; a good man lives a godly life.

Proverbs 21:8

An evil man loves to harm others; being a good neighbor is out of his line.

Proverbs 21:10

The wicked will finally lose; the righteous will finally win.

Proverbs 21:18

God loathes the gifts of evil men, especially if they are trying to bribe him!

Proverbs 21:27

An evil man is stubborn, but a godly man will reconsider.

Proverbs 21:29

Don't become obligated to evil men; don't long for their favors and gifts. Their kindness is a trick, they want to use you as their pawn. The delicious food they serve will turn sour in your stomach and you will vomit it, and to take back your words of appreciation for their "kindness."

Proverbs 23:6-8

Don't envy godless men; don't even enjoy their company. For they spend their days plotting violence and cheating.

Proverbs 24:1

To plan evil is as wrong as doing it.

Proverbs 24:8

Don't envy the wicked. Don't covet his riches. For the evil man has no future; his light will be snuffed out.

Proverbs 24:19, 20

When the wicked prosper, good men go away; when the wicked meet disaster, good men return.

Proverbs 28:28

# Fear/Reverence for God

Every man now worships gold, all other reverence being done away.

\- Sextus Propertius

Reverence for God adds hours to each day; so how can the wicked expect a long, good life?

Proverbs 10:27

Reverence for God gives a man deep strength; his children have a place of refuge and security.

Proverbs 14:26

Reverence for the Lord is a fountain of life; its waters keep a man from death.

Proverbs 14:27

Better a little with reverence for God, than great treasure and trouble with it.

Proverbs 15:16

Reverence for God gives life; happiness, and protection from harm.

Proverbs 19:23

True humility and respect for the Lord leads a man to riches, honor, and long life.

Proverbs 22:4

# Fool/Foolish

_It is hard to free fools from the chains they revere._

\- Voltaire (Francois-Marie Arouet) (Freedom)

To hate is to be a liar; to slander is to be a fool.

Proverbs 10:18

A fool's fun is being bad; a wise man's fun is being wise!

Proverbs 10:23

Don't talk so much. You keep putting your foot in your mouth. Be sensible and turn off the flow!

Proverbs 10:19

The Lord hates the stubborn but delights in those who are good.

Proverbs 11:20

The fool who provokes his family to anger and resentment will finally have nothing worthwhile left. He shall be the servant of a wise man.

Proverbs 11:29

A fool thinks he needs no advice, but a wise man listens to others.

Proverbs 12:15

A fool is quick-tempered; a wise man stays cool when insulted.

Proverbs 12:16

If you refuse criticism you will end in poverty and disgrace; if you accept criticism you are on the road to fame.

Proverbs 13:18

It is pleasant to see plans develop. That is why fools refuse to give them up when even they are wrong.

Proverbs 13:19

If you are looking for advice, stay away from fools.

Proverbs 14:7

Only a simpleton believes what he is told! A prudent man checks to see where he is going.

Proverbs 14:15

A short-tempered man is a fool. He hates the man who is patient.

Proverbs 14:17

The simpleton is crowned with folly, the wise man is crowned with knowledge.

Proverbs 14:18

Only a fool despises his father's advice; a wise son considers each suggestion.

Proverbs 15:5

A quick-tempered man starts fights; a cool-tempered man tries to stop them.

Proverbs 15:18

If a man enjoys folly, something is wrong! The sensible stay on the pathways of right.

Proverbs 15:21

It is safer to meet a bear robbed of her cubs then a fool caught in his folly.

Proverbs 17:12

A fool gets into constant fights. His mouth is his doing! His words endanger him.

Proverbs 18:6, 7

What a shame - yes, how stupid! - to decide before knowing the facts!

Proverbs 18:13

It is dangerous and sinful to rush into the unknown.

Proverbs 19:2

A man may ruin his chances by his own foolishness and then blame it on the Lord!

Proverbs 19:3

It doesn't seem right for a fool to succeed or for a slave to rule over princes!

Proverbs 19:10

A short-tempered man must bear his own penalty; you can't do much to help him. If you try once you must try a dozen times!

Proverbs 19:19

It is an honor for a man to stay out of a fight. Only fools insist on quarreling.

Proverbs 20:3

It is foolish and rash to make a promise to the Lord before counting the cost.

Proverbs 20:25

Keep your mouth closed and you'll stay out of trouble.

Proverbs 21:23

Keep away from angry, short-tempered men, lest you learn to be like them and endanger your soul.

Proverbs 22:24, 25

A man without self-control is as defenseless as a city with broken-down walls.

Proverbs 25:28

Don't brag about your plans for tomorrow - wait and see what happens.

Proverbs 27:1

A man who strays from home is like a bird that wanders from its nest.

Proverbs 27:8

A man who refuses to admit his mistakes can never be successful. But if he confesses and forsakes them, he gets another chance.

Proverbs 28:13

Fools start fights everywhere while wise men try to keep peace.

Proverbs 29:8

There is no arguing with a fool. He only rages and scoffs, and tempers flare.

Proverbs 29:9

There is more hope for a fool than for a man of quick temper.

Proverbs 29:20

A hot-tempered man starts fights and gets into all kinds of trouble.

Proverbs 29:22

# Friend/Friendship

_The best time to make friends is before you need them._

– _Ethel Barrymore (Friends)_

A true friend is always loyal, and a brother is born to help him in time of need.

Proverbs 17:17

It is harder to win back the friendship of an offended brother than to capture a fortified city. His anger shuts you out like iron bars.

Proverbs 18:19

Some people are friends in name only. Others are closer than brothers.

Proverbs 18:24

Many beg favors from a man who is generous; everyone is his friend.

Proverbs 19:6

Most people will tell you what loyal friends they are, but are they telling the truth?

Proverbs 20:6

Never abandon a friend - either yours or your father's. Then you won't need to go to a distant relative for help in your time of need.

Proverbs 27:10

A friendly discussion is as stimulating as the sparks that fly when iron strikes iron.

Proverbs 27:17

# Good/Godly

Preaching is to much avail, but practice is far more effective. A godly life is the strongest argument you can offer the skeptic.

– _Hosea Ballou (Evangelism)_

The Lord will not let a good man starve to death, nor will He let the wicked man's riches continue forever.

Proverbs 10:3

The good man is covered with blessings from head to foot, but an evil man inwardly curses his luck.

Proverbs 10:6

We all have happy memories of good men gone to their reward, but the names of wicked men stink after them.

Proverbs 10:7

A good man has firm footing, but a crook will slip and fall.

Proverbs 10:9

There is living truth in what a good man says, but the mouth of the evil man is filled with curses.

Proverbs 10:11

The good man's earnings advance the cause of righteousness. The evil man squanders his on sin.

Proverbs 10:16

When a good man speaks, he is worth listening to, but the words of fools are a dime a dozen.

Proverbs 10:20

A godly man gives good advice, but a rebel is destroyed by lack of common sense.

Proverbs 10:21

The hope of good men is eternal happiness; the hopes of evil men are all in vain.

Proverbs 10:28

God protects the upright but destroys the wicked.

Proverbs 10:29

The good shall never lose God's blessings, but the wicked shall lose everything.

Proverbs 10:30

The good man gives wise advice, but the liar's counsel is shunned.

Proverbs 10:31

The upright speak what is helpful; the wicked speak rebellion.

Proverbs 10:32

The good man's goodness delivers him; the evil man's treachery is his undoing.

Proverbs 11:6

God rescues good men from danger while letting the wicked fall into it.

Proverbs 11:8

The whole city celebrates a good man's success - and also the godless man's death.

Proverbs 11:10

The good influence of godly citizens causes a city to prosper, but the moral decay of the wicked drives it downhill.

Proverbs 11:11

The good man finds life; the evil man, Death.

Proverbs 11:19

The good man can look forward to happiness, while the wicked can expect only wrath.

Proverbs 11:23

If you search for good you will find God's favor; if you search for evil you will find His curse.

Proverbs 11:27

Godly men are growing a tree that bears life-giving fruit, and all who win souls are wise.

Proverbs 11:30

Even the godly shall be rewarded here on earth; how much more the wicked!

Proverbs 11:31

The Lord blesses good men and condemns the wicked.

Proverbs 12:2

A good man's mind is filled with honest thoughts; an evil man's mind is crammed with lies.

Proverbs 12:5

A good man is concerned for the welfare of his animals, but even the kindness of godless men is cruel

Proverbs 12:10

A good man is known by his truthfulness; a false man by deceit and lies.

Proverbs 12:17

No real harm befalls the good; but there is constant trouble for the wicked.

Proverbs 12:21

The good man asks advice from friends; the wicked plunge ahead - and fall.

Proverbs 12:26

The path of the godly leads to Life. So why fear Death?

Proverbs 12:28

The good man wins his case by careful argument; the evil-minded only wants to fight.

Proverbs 13:2

The good man hates lies; wicked men lie constantly and come to shame.

Proverbs 13:5

A man's goodness helps him all through life, while evil men are being destroyed by their wickedness.

Proverbs 13:6

The good man's life is full of light. The sinner's road is dark and gloomy.

Proverbs 13:9

When a good man dies, he leaves an inheritance to his grand-children; but when a sinner dies, his wealth is stored up for the godly.

Proverbs 13:22

The good man eats to live, while the evil man lives to eat.

Proverbs 13:25

The godly have a refuge when they die, but the wicked are crushed by their sins.

Proverbs 14:32

Godliness exalts a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people.

Proverbs 14:34

There is treasure in being good, but trouble dogs the wicked.

Proverbs 15:6

Only the good can give good advice. Rebels can't.

Proverbs 15:7

The Lord despises the deeds of the wicked, but loves those who try to be good. If they stop trying, the Lord will punish them; if they rebel against that punishment, they will die.

Proverbs 15:9, 10

The road of the godly leads upward, leaving hell behind.

Proverbs 15:24

A good man thinks before he speaks; the evil man pours out his evil words without a thought.

Proverbs 15:28

When a man is trying to please God, He makes even his worst enemies to be at peace with him.

Proverbs 16:7

The path of the godly leads away from evil; he who follows that path is safe.

Proverbs 16:17

How short-sighted to fine the godly for being good! And to punish nobles for being honest!

Proverbs 17:26

The Lord is a strong fortress. The godly run to Him are safe.

Proverbs 18:10

The godly learn by watching ruin overtake the wicked.

Proverbs 21:12

The man who tries to be good, loving and kind finds life, righteousness and honor.

Proverbs 21:21

The Lord preserves the upright but ruins the plans of the wicked.

Proverbs 22:12

O evil man, leave the upright man alone, and quit trying to cheat him out of his rights. Don't you know that this good man, though you trip him up seven times, will each time rise again? But one calamity is enough to lay you low.

Proverbs 24:15, 16

If your enemy is hungry, give him food! If he is thirst, give him something to drink! This will make him feel ashamed of himself, and God will reward you.

Proverbs 25:21, 22

If a godly man compromises with the wicked, it is like polluting a fountain or muddying a spring.

Proverbs 25:26

When the godly are successful, everyone is glad. When the wicked succeed, everyone is sad.

Proverbs 28:12

The good man knows the poor man's rights; the godless don't care.

Proverbs 29:7

The godly pray for those who long to kill them.

Proverbs 29:10

The good hate the badness of the wicked. The wicked hate the goodness of the good.

Proverbs 29:27

# Gossip

_An expert gossiper knows how much to leave out of a conversation._

– _Anonymous (Gossip)_

A gossip goes around spreading rumors while a trustworthy man tries to quiet them.

Proverbs 11:13

What dainty morsels rumors are. They are eaten with great relish!

Proverbs 18:8

Don't tell your secrets to a gossip unless you want them broadcast to the world.

Proverbs 20:19

# Helpless/Defenseless

Learned helplessness is the giving-up reaction, the quitting response that follows from the belief that whatever you do doesn't matter.

– _Arnold Schwarzeneggar (Belief)_

Do not move the ancient boundary marks. That is stealing.

Proverbs 22:28

Don't steal the land of defenseless orphans by moving their boundary marks, for their Redeemer is strong; He himself will accuse you.

Proverbs 23:11

Rescue those who are unjustly sentenced to death; don't stand back and let them die. Don't try to disclaim responsibility by saying you didn't know about it. For God, who knows all hearts, knows yours, and He knows you knew! And He will reward everyone according to his deeds.

Proverbs 24:11, 12

# Honesty/Dishonesty

It is fine thing to be honest, but it is also very important to be right.

– _Sir Winston Churchill (Honesty)_

Proverbs 10:2

Ill-gotten gain brings no lasting happiness; right living does.

Proverbs 11:1

The Lord hates cheating and delights in honesty.

Proverbs 11:3

A good man is guided by his honesty; the evil man is destroyed by his dishonesty.

Proverbs 11:5

The upright are directed by their honesty; the wicked shall fall beneath their load of sins.

Proverbs 12:12

Crooks are jealous of each other's loot, while good men long to help each other.

Proverbs 12:13

Lies will get any man into trouble, but honesty is its own defense.

Proverbs 12:22

God loves those who keep their promises, and hates those who don't.

Proverbs 15:27

Dishonest money brings grief to all the family, but hating bribes brings happiness.

Proverbs 16:8

A little, gained honesty, is better than great wealth gotten by dishonest means.

Proverbs 20:7

It is a wonderful heritage to have an honest father.

Proverbs 20:10

The Lord despises every kind of cheating.

Proverbs 20:17

Some men enjoy cheating, but the cake they buy with such ill-gotten gain will turn to gravel in their mouths.

Proverbs 20:21

A fortune can be made from cheating, but there is a curse that goes with it.

Proverbs 20:23

The Lord loathes all cheating and dishonesty.

Proverbs 21:6

Dishonest gain will never last, so why take the risk?

Proverbs 28:8

Income from exploiting the poor will end up in the hands of someone who pities them.

Proverbs 28:18

Good men will be rescued from harm, but cheaters will be destroyed.

# Honor

Whatever a man seeks, honors, or exalts more than God, this is the god of his idolatry.

– _William B. Ullathorne (God)_

The Lord's blessing is our greatest wealth. All our work adds nothing to it!

Proverbs 10:32

Honor goes to kind and gracious women, mere money to cruel men.

Proverbs 11:16

To do right honors God; to sin is to despise Him.

Proverbs 14:2

If you have good eyesight and good hearing, thank God who gave them to you.

Proverbs 20:12

It is an honor to receive a frank reply.

Proverbs 24:26

It is a badge of honor to accept criticism.

Proverbs 25:12

# Hope

We have always held to the hope, the belief, the conviction that there is a better life, a better world, beyond the horizon.

– _Franklin D. Roosevelt (Future, The)_

Hope deferred makes the heart sick; but when dreams come true at last; there is life and joy.

Proverbs 13:12

A man's courage can sustain his broken body, but when courage dies, what hope is left?

Proverbs 18:14

Good news from far away is like cold water to the thirsty.

Proverbs 25:25

# Justice/Injustice

_Justice is my being allowed to do whatever I like. Injustice is whatever prevents my doing so._

– _Samuel Butler (Justice)_

It is wrong for a judge to favor the wicked and condemn the innocent.

Proverbs 18:5

A coin toss ends arguments and settles disputes between powerful opponents.

Proverbs 18:18

Don't repay evil for evil, wait for the Lord to handle the matter.

Proverbs 20:22

It is wrong to sentence the poor, and let the rich go free. He who says to the wicked, "You are innocent," shall be cursed by many people of many nations; but blessings shall be showered on those who rebuke sin fearlessly.

Proverbs 24:23-25

Don't be hot-headed and rush to court! You may start something you can't finish and go down before your neighbor in shameful defeat. So discuss the matter with him privately. Don't tell anyone else, lest he accuse you of slander and you can't withdraw what you said.

Proverbs 25:8, 9, 10

Evil men don't understand the importance of justice, but those who follow the Lord are much concerned about it.

Proverbs 28:5

Where there is ignorance of God, the people run wild; but what a wonderful thing it is for a nation to know and keep His laws!

Proverbs 29:18

A man who assists a thief must really hate himself! For he knows the consequence, but does it anyway.

Proverbs 29:24

# King/Kingdom

_In the kingdom of the blind, the one-eyed man is king._

– _Desiderius Erasmus (Perception)_

A growing population is a king's glory; a dwindling nation is his doom.

Proverbs 14:28

A king rejoices in servants who know what they are doing; he is angry with those who cause trouble.

Proverbs 14:35

God will help the king to judge the people fairly; there need be no mistakes.

Proverbs 16:10

It is a horrible thing for a king to do evil. His right to rule depends upon his fairness.

Proverbs 16:12

The king rejoices when his people are truthful and fair.

Proverbs 16:13

The anger of the king is a messenger of death and a wise man will appease it.

Proverbs 16:14

Many favors are showered on those who please the king.

Proverbs 16:15

The king's anger is as dangerous as a lion's. But his approval is as refreshing as the dew on grass.

Proverbs 19:12

The king's fury is like that of a roaring lion; to rouse his anger is to risk your life.

Proverbs 20:2

A king sitting as judge weighs all the evidence. Carefully, distinguishing the true from false.

Proverbs 20:8

A wise king stamps out crime by severe punishment.

Proverbs 20:26

If a king is kind, honest and fair, his kingdom stands secure.

Proverbs 20:28

Just as water is turned into irrigation ditches, so the Lord directs the king's thoughts. He turns them wherever He wants to.

Proverbs 21:1

The unjust tyrant will reap disaster and his reign of terror shall end.

Proverbs 22:8

It is God's privilege to conceal things, and the king's privilege to discover and invent. You cannot understand the height of heaven, the size of the earth or all that goes on in the king's mind!

Proverbs 25:2, 3

When you remove dross from silver, you have sterling ready for the silversmith. When you remove corrupt men from the king's court, his reign will be just and fair.

Proverbs 25:4, 5

Don't demand an audience with the king as though you were some powerful prince. It is better to wait for an invitation rather than to be sent back to the end of the line, publicly disgraced!

Proverbs 25:6, 7

When there is moral rot within a nation, its government topples easily; but with honest, sensible leaders there is stability.

Proverbs 28:2

A wicked ruler is as dangerous to the poor as a lion or bear attacking them.

Proverbs 28:15

Only a stupid prince will oppress his people, but a king will have a long reign if he hates dishonesty and bribes.

Proverbs 28:16

With good men in authority, the people rejoice; but with the wicked in power, they groan.

Proverbs 29:2

A just king gives stability to his nation, but one who demands bribes destroys it.

Proverbs 29:4

A wicked ruler will have wicked aides on his staff.

Proverbs 29:12

A king who is fair to the poor shall have a long reign.

Proverbs 29:14

When rulers are wicked, their people are too; but good men will live to see the tyrant's downfall.

Proverbs 29:16

# Lazy

_Lazy men are soon poor; hard workers get rich._

Bible (Proverbs 10:4)

A lazy fellow is a pain to his employers - like smoke in their eyes or vinegar that sets the teeth on edge.

Proverbs 10:26

A lazy man won't even dress the game he gets while hunting; but the diligent man makes good use of everything he finds.

Proverbs 12:27

Lazy people want much but get little, while the diligent are prospering.

Proverbs 13:4

A lazy fellow has trouble all through life; the good man's path is easy!

Proverbs 15:19

Idle hands are the devil's workshop; idle lips are his mouthpiece.

Proverbs 16:27

A lazy man is brother to the saboteur.

Proverbs 18:9

A lazy man sleeps soundly - and goes hungry!

Proverbs 19:15

Some men are so lazy they won't even feed themselves!

Proverbs 19:24

If you love sleep, you will end in poverty. Stay awake, work hard, and there will be plenty to eat!

Proverbs 20:13

The lazy man longs for many things but his hands refuse to work. He is greedy to get, while the godly love to give!

Proverbs 21:25, 26

The lazy man is full of excuses. "I can't go to work!" "he says. "If I go outside I might meet a lion in the street and be killed!"

Proverbs 22:13

I walked by the field of a certain lazy fellow and saw that it was overgrown with thorns, and covered with weeds; and its walls were broken down. Then, as I looked, I learned this lesson:

"A little extra sleep,

A little more slumber,

A little folding of the hands to rest" -

Means that poverty will break in upon you suddenly like a robber,

and violently like a bandit.

Proverbs 24:30-34

# Mocker

_Mockery is often the result of poverty of wit._

– _Jean De La Bruyere (Ridicule)_

A mocker never finds the wisdom he claims he is looking for, yet it comes easily to the man with common sense.

Proverbs 14:6

A mocker stays away from wise men because he hates to be scolded.

Proverbs 15:12

Mocking the poor is mocking the God who made them. He will punish those who rejoice at other's misfortunes.

Proverbs 17:5

Punish a mocker and others will learn from his example. Reprove a wise man and he will be the wiser.

Proverbs 19:25

Mockers and rebels shall be severely punished.

Proverbs 19:29

Mockers are proud, haughty, and arrogant.

Proverbs 21:24

Throw out the mocker, and you will be rid of tension, fighting and quarrels.

Proverbs 22:10

# Poor

_He is rich or poor according to what he is, not according to what he has._

– _Henry Ward Beecher (Worth)_

Being kidnapped and held for ransom never worries the poor man!

Proverbs 13:8

A poor man's farm may have good soil, but injustice robs him of its riches.

Proverbs 13:23

Even his own neighbors despise the poor man, while the rich have many "friends."

Proverbs 14:20

To despise the poor is to sin. Blessed are those who pity them.

Proverbs 14:21

Anyone who oppresses the poor is insulting God who made them. To help the poor is to honor God.

Proverbs 14:31

Better poor and humble than proud and rich.

Proverbs 16:19

The poor man pleads and the rich man answers with insults.

Proverbs 18:23

Better be poor and honest than rich and dishonest.

Proverbs 19:1

A poor man's own brother turn away from him in embarrassment; how much more his friends! He calls after them, but they are gone.

Proverbs 19:7

When you help the poor you are lending to the Lord - and He pays wonderful interest on your loan!

Proverbs 19:17

Kindness makes a man attractive. And it is better to be poor than dishonest.

Proverbs 19:22

He who shuts his ears to the cries of the poor will be ignored in his own time of need.

Proverbs 21:13

Happy is the generous man, the one who feeds the poor.

Proverbs 22:9

He who gains by oppressing the poor or by bribing the rich shall end in poverty.

Proverbs 22:16

Don't rob the poor and sick! For the Lord is their defender. If you injure them He will punish you.

Proverbs 22:22, 23

When a poor man oppresses those even poorer, he is like an unexpected flood sweeping away their last hope.

Proverbs 28:3

Better to be poor and honest than rich and a cheater.

Proverbs 28:6

If you give to the poor, your needs will be supplied! But a curse upon those who close their eyes to poverty.

Proverbs 28:27

# Prayer

_More tears are shed over answered prayers than unanswered ones._

– _Mother Teresa (Prayer)_

The Lord hates the gifts of the wicked, but delights in the prayers of His people.

Proverbs 15:8

The Lord is far from the wicked, but He hears the prayers of the righteous.

Proverbs 15:29

Humility and reverence for the Lord will make you both wise and honored.

Proverbs 15:33

# Pride/Proud

By these things examine thyself. By whose rules am I acting; in whose name; in whose strength; in whose glory? What faith, humility, self-denial, and the love of God, and to man have there been in all my actions.

– _Jackie Mason (Progress)_

Proud men end in shame, but the meek become wise.

Proverbs 11:2

People curse the man who holds his grain for higher prices, but they bless the man who sells it to them in their time of need.

Proverbs 11:26

It is better to get your hands dirty - and eat - than to be too proud to work, and starve.

Proverbs 12:9

Pride leads to arguments; be humble, take advice and become wise.

Proverbs 13:10

The Lord destroys the possessions of the proud but cares for widows.

Proverbs 15:25

Pride disgusts the Lord. Take my word for it \- proud men shall be punished.

Proverbs 16:5

Pride goes before destruction and haughtiness before a fall.

Proverbs 16:18

The selfish man quarrels against every sound principle of conduct by demanding his own way.

Proverbs 18:1

Pride ends in destruction; humility ends in honor.

Proverbs 18:12

Pride, lust, and evil actions are all sin.

Proverbs 21:4

Do you like honey? Don't eat too much of it, or it will make you sick!

Proverbs 25:16

Just as it is harmful to eat too much honey, so also it is bad for men to think about all the honors they deserve!

Proverbs 28:27

Ambition and death are alike in this: neither is ever satisfied.

Proverbs 27:20

Greed causes fighting; trusting God leads to prosperity.

Proverbs 28:25

Pride ends in a fall, while humility brings honor.

Proverbs 29:23

# Quarrel

_Most quarrels amplify a misunderstanding._

– _Andre Gide (Argument & Debate)_

Hatred stirs old quarrels, but love overlooks insults.

Proverbs 10:12

To quarrel with a neighbor is foolish; a man with good sense holds his tongue.

Proverbs 11:12

A dry crust eaten in peace is better than steak everyday along with argument and strife.

Proverbs 17:1

Love forgets mistakes; nagging about them parts the best of friends.

Proverbs 17:9

It is hard to stop a quarrel once it starts, so don't let it begin.

Proverbs 17:14

Better to live in the corner of an attic than with a crabby woman in a lovely home.

Proverbs 21:9

Better to live in the desert than with a quarrelsome, complaining woman.

Proverbs 21:19

Better to live in a corner of an attic than in a beautiful home with a cranky, quarrelsome woman.

Proverbs 25:24

# Rebel

_No one can go on being a rebel too long without turning into an autocrat._

– _Lawrence Durrel (Revolution)_

A rebel's foolish talk should prick his own pride! But the wise man's speech is respected.

Proverbs 14:3

The common bond of rebels is their guilt. The common bond of godly people is good will.

Proverbs 14:9

A sensible son gladdens his father. A rebellious son saddens his mother.

Proverbs 15:20

Truth from a rebel or lies from a king are both unexpected.

Proverbs 17:7

It is senseless to pay tuition to educate a rebel who has no heart for truth.

Proverbs 17:16

It's no fun to be a rebel's father.

Proverbs 17:21

A rebellious son is a grief to his father and a bitter blow to his mother.

Proverbs 17:25

A rebel doesn't care about the facts. All he wants to do is yell.

Proverbs 18:2

A rebellious son is a calamity to his father, and a nagging wife annoys like constant dripping.

Proverbs 19:13

The rebel walks a thorny, treacherous road; the man who values his soul will stay away.

Proverbs 22:5

Don't waste your breath on a rebel. He will despise the wisest advice.

Proverbs 23:9

Wisdom is too much for a rebel. He'll not be chosen as a counselor.

Proverbs 24:7

The rebel's schemes are sinful, and the mocker is the scourge of all mankind.

Proverbs 24:9

A rebel's frustrations are heavier than sand and rocks.

Proverbs 27:3

You can't separate a rebel from his foolishness though you crush him to powder.

Proverbs 27:22

A rebel shouts in anger; a wise man holds his temper in and cools it.

Proverbs 29:11

# Rich/Riches

The wealth at large does not judge by who we are and what we know; it judges us by what we have.

– _Joyce Brothers (Wealth)_

The rich man's wealth is his only strength. The poor man's poverty is his only curse.

Proverbs 10:15

Your riches won't help you on Judgment Day; only righteousness counts then.

Proverbs 11:4

It is possible to give away and become richer! It is also possible to hold on too tightly and lose everything. Yes, the liberal man shall be rich! By watering others he waters himself.

Proverbs 11:24, 25

Some rich people are poor, and some people have great wealth!

Proverbs 13:7

Wealth from gambling quickly disappears; wealth from hard work grows.

Proverbs 13:11

The rich man thinks of his wealth as an impregnable defense, a high wall of safety. What a dreamer!

Proverbs 18:11

A wealthy man has many "friends"; the poor man has none left.

Proverbs 19:4

A man who loves pleasure becomes poor, wine and luxury are not the way to riches!

Proverbs 21:17

The rich and the poor are alike before the Lord who made them all.

Proverbs 22:2

Just as the rich rule the poor, so the borrower is servant to the lender.

Proverbs 22:7

When dining with a rich man, be on your guard and don't stuff yourself, though it all tastes so good; for he is trying to bribe you, and no good is going to come of his invitation.

Proverbs 23:1-3

Don't weary yourself trying to get rich. Why waste your time? For riches can disappear as though they had the wings of a bird!

Proverbs 23:4, 5

Rich men are conceited, but their real poverty is evident to the poor.

Proverbs 28:11

The man who wants to do right will get a rich reward. But the man who wants to get rich quick will quickly fail.

Proverbs 28:20

Trying to get rich quick is evil and leads to poverty.

Proverbs 28:22

Rich and poor are alike in this: each depends on God for light.

Proverbs 29:13

# Sin/Sinner/Cleansing

Saint: A dead sinner revised and edited.

– _Ambrose Bierce (Saint, Saints)_

Winking at sin leads to sorrow; bold reproof leads to peace.

Proverbs 10:10

Before every man there lies a wide and pleasant road that seems right but ends in death.

Proverbs 14:12

The backslider gets bored with himself; the godly man's life is exciting.

Proverbs 14:14

Iniquity is atoned for by mercy and truth; being good comes from reverence for God.

Proverbs 16:2

Before every man there lies a wide and pleasant road he thinks is right, but it ends in death.

Proverbs 16:25

Silver and gold are purified by fire, but God purifies hearts.

Proverbs 17:3

Sinners love to fight; boasting is looking for trouble.

Proverbs 17:19

Sin brings disgrace.

Proverbs 18:3

Who can ever say "I have cleansed my heart; I am sinless"?

Proverbs 20:9

# Temptation

_Honest bread is very well, its butter that makes the temptation._

– _Douglas William Jerrold (Bread)_

Oh my son, trust my advice - stay away from prostitutes. For a prostitute is a deep and narrow grave. Like a robber, she wants for her victims as one after another become unfaithful to their wives.

Proverbs 23:26-28

# Tongue

_Having a sharp tongue will cut your throat._

– _Anonymous (Criticism)_

Self-control means controlling the tongue! A quick retort can ruin everything.

Proverbs 13:3

A surely as a wind from the north brings cold, just as surely a retort causes anger!

Proverbs 25:23

# Trust/Mistrust

Never be afraid to trust an unknown future to a known God.

– _Corrie Ten Boom (Future, The)_

Trust in your money and down you go! Trust in God and flourish as a tree!

Proverbs 11:28

An unreliable messenger can cause a lot of trouble. Reliable communications permits progress.

Proverbs 13:17

We should make plans - counting on God to direct us.

Proverbs 16:9

God blesses those who obey Him; happy the man who trust in the Lord.

Proverbs 16:20

Since the Lord is directing our steps, why try to understand everything that happens along the way?

Proverbs 20:24

Listen to this wise advice; follow it closely, for it will do you good, and you can pass it on to others: Trust in the Lord. In the past, haven't I been right? Then believe what I am telling you now, and share it with others.

Proverbs 22:17-21

Don't envy evil men but continue to reverence the Lord all the time, for surely you have a wonderful future ahead of you. There is hope for you yet!

Proverbs 23:17, 18

God blesses those who obey Him; happy the man who trusts in the Lord.

Proverbs 16:20

A man is a fool to trust himself! But those who use God's wisdom are safe.

Proverbs 28:26

Fear of man is a dangerous trap, but to trust God means safety.

Proverbs 29:25

# Truth

_To be persuasive, we must be believable. To be believably, we must be credible. To be credible, we must be truthful._

– _Edward R. Murrow (Truth)_

Telling the truth gives a man great satisfaction, and hard work returns many blessings to him.

Proverbs 12:14

Truth stands the test of time; lies are soon exposed.

Proverbs 12:19

Any story sounds true until someone tells the other side and sets the record straight.

Proverbs 18:14

He who values grace and truth is the king's friend.

Proverbs 22:11

In the end, people appreciate frankness more than flattery.

Proverbs 28:23

# Wife

_Intuition is what tells a wife her husband has done wrong before he thinks of doing it._

– _Anonymous (Intuition)_

A worthy wife is her husband's joy and crown; the other kind corrodes his strength and tears down everything he does.

Proverbs 12:4

The man who finds a wife finds a good thing; she is a blessing to him from the Lord.

Proverbs 18:22

# Wise/Wisdom

Providence certainly does not just favor certain individuals, but the deep wisdom of its counsel, instruction and ennoblement extends to all.

– _Kari Wilhelm Von Humboldt_

A wise youth makes hay while the sun shines, but what a shame to see a lad who sleeps away his hour of opportunity.

Proverbs 10:5

The wise man is glad to be instructed, but a self-sufficient fool falls flat on his face.

Proverbs 10:8

Men with common sense are admired as counselors; those without it are beaten as servants.

Proverbs 10:13

A wise man holds his tongue. Only a fool blurts out everything he knows; that only leads to sorrow and trouble.

Proverbs 10:14

Anyone willing to be corrected is on the path to life. Anyone refusing has lost his chance.

Proverbs 10:17

Without wise leadership, a nation is in trouble; but with good counselors there is safety.

Proverbs 11:14

A beautiful woman lacking discretion and modesty is like a fine gold ring a pig's snout.

Proverbs 11:22

To learn, you must want to be taught. To refuse reproof is stupid.

Proverbs 12:1

Everyone admires a man with good sense, but a man with a warped mind is despised.

Proverbs 12:8

A wise man doesn't display his knowledge, but a fool displays his foolishness.

Proverbs 12:23

A wise youth accepts his father's rebuke; a young mocker doesn't.

Proverbs 13:1

The advice of a wise man refreshes like water from a mountain spring. Those accepting it become aware of the pitfalls on ahead.

Proverbs 13:14

A man with good sense is appreciated. A treacherous man must walk a rocky road.

Proverbs 13:15

A wise man thinks ahead; a fool doesn't, and even brags about it!

Proverbs 13:16

Be with wise men and become wise. Be with evil men and become evil.

Proverbs 13:20

A wise woman builds her house, while a foolish woman tears hers down by her own efforts.

Proverbs 14:1

The wise man looks ahead. The fool attempts to fool himself and won't face the facts.

Proverbs 14:8

A wise man is cautious and avoids danger; a fool plunges ahead with great confidence.

Proverbs 14:16

Wise men are praised for their wisdom; fools are despised for their folly.

Proverbs 14:24

A wise man controls his temper. He knows that anger causes mistakes.

Proverbs 14:29

Wisdom is enshrined in the hearts of men of common sense, but it must shout loudly before fools will hear it.

Proverbs 14:33

A wise teacher makes learning a joy; rebellious teacher spouts foolishness.

Proverbs 15:2

A wise man is hungry for truth, while the mocker feeds on trash.

Proverbs 15:14

If you profit from constructive criticism you will be elected to the wise men's hall of fame. But to reject criticism is to harm yourself and your own best interest.

Proverbs 15:31, 32

How much better is wisdom than gold, and understanding than silver!

Proverbs 16:16

The wise man is known by his common sense, and a pleasant teacher is the best.

Proverbs 16:21

Wisdom is a fountain of life to those possessing it, but a fool's burden is his folly.

Proverbs 16:22

From a wise mind comes careful and persuasive speech.

Proverbs 16:23

A wise slave will rule his master's wicked sons and share their estate.

Proverbs 17:2

A rebuke to a man of common sense is more effective than a hundred lashes on the back of a rebel.

Proverbs 17:10

Wisdom is the main pursuit of sensible men, but a fool's goals are at the ends of the earth!

Proverbs 17:24

The man of few word and settled mind is wise; therefore, even a fool is thought to be wise when he is silent. It pays him to keep his mouth shut.

Proverbs 17:27, 28

A wise man's words express deep streams of thought.

Proverbs 18:4

Ability to give wise advice satisfies like a good meal!

Proverbs 18:20

He who loves wisdom loves his own best interest and will be a success.

Proverbs 19:8

A wise man restrains his anger and overlooks insults. This is to his credit.

Proverbs 19:11

Get all the advice you can and be wise the rest of your life.

Proverbs 19:20

Though good advice lies deep within a counselor's heart, the wise man will draw it out.

Proverbs 20:5

Good sense is far more valuable than gold or precious jewels.

Proverbs 20:15

The wise man learns by listening; the simpleton can learn only by seeing scorners punished.

Proverbs 21:11

The man who strays away from common sense will end up dead!

Proverbs 21:16

The wise man saves for the future, but the foolish man spends whatever he gets.

Proverbs 21:20

The wise man conquers the strong man and levels his defenses.

Proverbs 21:22

A prudent man foresees the difficulties ahead and prepares for them; the simpleton goes blindly on and suffers the consequences.

Proverbs 22:3

Don't refuse to accept criticism; get all the help you can.

Proverbs 23:12

My son, how I will rejoice if you become a man of common sense. Yes, my heart will thrill to your thoughtful, wise words.

Proverbs 23:15, 16

Listen to your father's advice and don't despise an old mother's experience. Get the facts at any price, and hold on tightly to all the good sense you can get. The father of a godly man has cause for joy - what pleasure a wise son is! So give your parents joy!

Proverbs 23:22-25

A wise man is mightier than a strong man. Wisdom is mightier than strength.

Proverbs 24:5

My son, honey whets the appetite, and so does wisdom! When you enjoy becoming wise, there is hope for you! A bright future lies ahead!

Proverbs 24:13, 14

It is an honor to receive a frank reply.

Proverbs 24:26

It is a badge of honor to accept valid criticism.

Proverbs 25:12

A sensible man watches for problems ahead and prepares to meet them. The simpleton never looks and suffers the consequences.

Proverbs 27:12

The man who is often reproved but refuses to accept criticism will suddenly be broken and never have another chance.

Proverbs 29:1

A wise son makes his father happy, but a lad who hangs around prostitutes disgraces him.

Proverbs 29:3

# Witness

Never lie when the truth is more profitable.

– _Stanislaw Jerzy Lec_

A truthful witness never lies; a false witness always lies.

Proverbs 14:5

A witness who tells the truth saves good men from being sentenced to death, but a false witness is traitor.

Proverbs 14:25

Punish false witnesses. Track down liars.

Proverbs 19:5

A false witness shall be punished and a liar shall be caught.

Proverbs 19:9

A worthless witness cares nothing for truth - he enjoys his sinning too much.

Proverbs 19:28

A false witness must be punished, and honest witness is safe.

Proverbs 21:28

Don't testify spitefully against an innocent neighbor. Why lie about him? Don't say; "Now I can pay him back for all his meanness to me!"

Proverbs 24:28, 29

# Words

_The game of life is a game of boomerangs. Our thoughts, deeds, and words return to us sooner or later, with astounding accuracy._

– _Florence Scovel Shinn (Life)_

Evil words destroy. Godly skill rebuilds.

Proverbs 11:9

Some people like to make cutting remarks, but the words of the wise soothe and heal.

Proverbs 12:18

Anxious hearts are very heavy but a word of encouragement does wonders!

Proverbs 12:25

Despise God's Word and find yourself in trouble. Obey it and succeed.

Proverbs 13:13

A soft answer turns away wrath, but harsh words cause quarrels.

Proverbs 15:1

Gentle words cause life and health; griping brings discouragement.

Proverbs 15:4

The depths of hell are open to God's knowledge. How much more the hearts of all mankind!

Proverbs 15:11

Everyone enjoys giving good advice, and how wonderful it is to be able to say the right thing at the right time.

Proverbs 15:23

The Lord hates the thoughts of the wicked but delights in kind words.

Proverbs 15:26

Pleasant sights and good reports give happiness and health.

Proverbs 15:30

Kind words are like honey - enjoyable and healthful.

Proverbs 16:24

Those who love to talk will suffer the consequences. Men have died for saying the wrong thing!

Proverbs 18:21

Keep the commandments and keep your life; despising them means death.

Proverbs 19:16

Friendly suggestions are as pleasant as perfume.

Proverbs 27:9

# Work

_It is quite possible to work without results, but never will there be results without work._

– _Anonymous (Work)_

Hard work means prosperity; only a fool idles away his time.

Proverbs 12:11

Work harder and become a leader; be lazy and never succeed.

Proverbs 12:24

An empty stable stays clean - but there is no income from an empty stable.

Proverbs 14:4

Work brings profit; talk brings poverty.

Proverbs 14:23

Commit your work to the Lord, then it will succeed.

Proverbs 16:3

Hunger is good - if it makes you work to satisfy it!

Proverbs 16:26

If you won't plow in the cold you won't eat in the harvest.

Proverbs 20:4

Steady plodding brings prosperity; hasty speculation brings poverty.

Proverbs 21:5

Do you know a hard-working man? He shall be successful and stand before kings.

Proverbs 22:29

A workman may eat from the orchard he tends; anyone should be rewarded who protects another's interests.

Proverbs 27:18

Hard work brings prosperity; playing around brings poverty.

Proverbs 28:19

***

Thank you for reading my book. If you enjoyed it, won't you please take a moment to leave me a review at your favorite retailer?

Thanks!

Dimas, Author
