

Author's note: All characters depicted in this work of fiction are 18 years of age or older.

Copyright 2015 Raven Gabrielle

Published by Raven Gabrielle at Smashwords

## Chapter 1

"Bitch where is the rest of my money!" Before I knew it, there was blood leaking from my nose again as he continued to slap the shit outta me.

"I don't have it! I told you he took off!"

"So you telling me you let this nigga take off with MY money?!" This time it was a closed fist to my eye and a kick to my ribs. I don't even cry any more. I'm so use these beatings. After a couple kicks, my body goes numb and my mind just drifts away to another place.

"Don't play with me bitch! I'll kill you!" He yelled as he continued to kick me. After ripping off my clothes to find his money he spit directly in my face and walked away.

"Cassie! Are you okay?" Jasmine always came to my rescue.

"Don't touch that bitch, leave that hoe down there!" He yelled. Jasmine got up and walked away. She knew that if she protested her ass would be laying right on side of me. That's why I never tripped when she never came to my defense when he was kicking my ass, but she was always there to pick me up. Jasmine was the only girl I was actually close to here. She got me off the streets, brought me here to Big Ced, and taught me the ropes. She was only three years older than me. She's the closest thing to a best friend that I've had in years. None of the other girls care for me much. When I first came here, I became Big Ced's favorite. I was the youngest and the prettiest girl here. He said my baby face would make him a rich man. Now, after a year, he uses this baby face as his punching bag. He beats all his women, says he don't discriminate he treats all his hoes the same. It's five of us. He makes us all call him Daddy. He puts food in our mouths, clothes on our back, and make sure don't no nigga fuck with us or his money. He was more than a daddy to me than the sperm donor I had. Daddy set up all our appointments. We aren't allowed to have a cellphone because he thinks that we'll set up our own appointments and not run him his money. He ain't play that shit. If he find money on you, in your room, or anywhere else that was a ass whooping waiting to happen. He kept all the money and gave us what he wanted when he wanted.

Ten minutes later, after the feeling returned to my body I attempted to get off the floor. Ribs aching and legs damn near feeling like noodles, I limped to my room. Jasmine was there waiting for me.

"You okay girl?" She said dabbing the blood from my nose with a tissue.

"Yea, I'll be okay once the swelling goes down."

"You gone have to put yo foot down and demand yo money from these niggas! If not they gone keep robbing yo ass!"

"So they can beat my ass too?"

"Baby girl you gone have to stand up for yourself, this the second time this happened. And you know with your eye like that Daddy not gone let you go to work. No work from you, means less money for him. Just something else for him to be pissed off about."

"I know, I'll be okay. I'll just sleep it off."

"Okay, let me know if you need something."

"I will." I said as I felt my right eye closing up from the swelling.

It took 3 days and numerous ice packs for my eye to go down. I was kind of ready to go back to work. Laying up in this house will make you crazy. Never thought my life would turn out like this just last year I was in my sophomore year majoring in pharmacology. Sometimes things happen in your life that leave you mentally fucked up and in fucked up situations. But fuck that shit, this is my life now.

## Chapter 2

"Daddy baby feeling better?" I woke up to him standing over my bed. He wasn't all bad. Just until it was money involved. He was cool majority of the time. If it weren't for the beatings he really made this place feel like home.

"You know Daddy sorry right?" He said while kissing my cheek. He pulled out a bouquet of roses from behind his back, pushing them up against my nose letting me smell their aroma. They smelled so good. He always knew how find his back to my heart. I sat up in the bed and placed my flowers on the bedside dresser.

"Thank you, Daddy. Their beautiful."

"Just like you." He smiled.

I leaned forward and kiss him on his lips. He kissed me even harder. He placed his hands on my shoulder and pulled down my camisole and bra.

"The food done!" It was Ashley standing at the door, rolling her eyes. She hated me. Ashley was Daddy's main girl. She cooked and cleaned the house. She even slept in bed with Daddy. She didn't like no girl Daddy got close to. He stood up and walked out the door. Smacking Ashley on her big round ass as he passed. I pulled my straps back on my shoulders. I got out the bed and went to the bathroom. I looked at my eye in the mirror it really didn't look that bad, just a small cut. Must've came from his ring. Nothing a lil makeup couldn't cover up. After washing up I proceeded down stairs to the kitchen. I could've sworn I heard Ashley say "yea girl and he got the bitch some flowers." All eyes were on me I didn't mind tho, that hoe was just jealous. I chuckled to myself. Sometimes I wonder if that bitch would ever do something to my food. After she cooked she always set up everybody's plate but she ain't stupid Daddy would kill her. I got my plate and took a seat by Jasmine.

"Girl what happened up there, Ashley is hot! She been talking shit since she came from upstairs. Look at her, all of em over there been whispering and shit."

Laughing, "Girl nothing, she a miserable hoe she can't have Daddy to herself all the time." I said winking my eye at her.

"You something serious! Better watch yo back tho that hoe low down and sneaky. She set up a girl a year or two ago. Daddy damn near put the girl in a body bag. She was in ICU for 3 weeks."

"Damn she doing it like that? That hoe ain't do nothing to my food huh?"

Killing herself laughing, "No girl! Go ahead and eat you gone need that energy for tonight, this being your first night back and all. Daddy probably gone put you to work."

"I already know." I said finishing up my breakfast. Daddy walked in and told Jasmine to come to his room. These rest of these hoes didn't really mess with me so I put my plate up and went back in my room. "Now clean that up bitch," I thought to myself. Ten minutes later a car blew outside, somebody must've got a job to run. Soon after, Jasmine returned to my room.

"Cassie, I know you better than anybody here. And I know you don't rock that way but Daddy set me up on a job and they want me to bring another girl. You the only girl here that I can trust to do this with. I really need you."

"What kind of freaky shit is this nigga into? You kno I don't fuck with females."

"I know you don't and he'll be here in about ten minutes. Please Cassie, please do this for me."

"But I never been with a girl."

"Baby girl I know, just think of me as another nigga and do what you usually do."

"I don't know Jazz."

"I would do it for you Cassie," she said with puppy dog eyes. "I've been with females plenty of times sometimes I think it's better with a woman than a man. It's like she knows the exact spot to touch and hit."

"Really?"

"Yea. Close your eyes." I closed my eyes and I felt Jasmine lean over and rubbed her hands over my panties and kissed me passionately. I can't even lie, that shit felt like Heaven. Part of me wanted to smack her ass and the other half wanted her to do more. I slightly pushed her away and went to the bathroom. I didn't want her to see my wet panties. She came to the door.

"I'm sorry Cass. Are you okay?"

"Yea. I'm fine."

"So are you down?"

I cracked open the door and we met face to face.

"Look bitch I'm only doing this cuz you my girl and I love you. Don't get it twisted I'm strictly dickly!"

Damn near laughing her ass off, "Okay girl. I got it. Hurry up and get ready!"

Ten minutes later we were met at the door by a dark complexion, lil nigga. Big chains, sagging pants, low cut and two golds in his mouth. Probably sold drugs, I thought. These are typically the kind of guys we do jobs with. He led us to his black Cadillac Escalade. The rims had to be 24s, niggas are so flashy. I crawled in the back. Usually the ride is quiet. This nigga wouldn't shut the fuck up!

"Oh yea I can't wait to dig in dem guts."

"I got me two bad bitches!"

"Shiiiiiiiiiiiiiiit!"

I had been tuned his ass out. He seemed like one of them big mouth ass niggas that don't last long. I sat and watched the tv screens he had in his truck playing music videos. Tip Drill by T.I. was playing. We pulled up to the hotel. He ain't waste no time. Fuck the elevator, he leaped down the damn stairs like the FEDS were behind him. He had be a young nigga. When we got to the room, Jazz and I took a seat on the bed as he stood there sweating like a damn bull tryna catch his breath. After shaking back he told us to kiss. Again Jasmine leaned forward and kissed me softly. She must really be into this girl on girl shit. She did this shit like a pro, she gently pushed me down on the bed. She must've read my face and put her finger over my mouth slowly sliding her finger in and out of my mouth. "Shit!" There it is again I said to myself as my panties began to moisten. He must've seen it to.

"Hold up don't y'all have too much fun without me!"

He jumped into the bed. Like I expected three minutes later he was out!

"Damn, this never happened to me before."

He a damn lie. I seen this shit coming. Weak ass nigga. I didn't even get a turn. Jasmine wore his ass out. I stood up and grabbed my clothes and walked to the bathroom to freshen up. While in the bathroom I heard Jasmine ask him for the money, then I heard yelling.

"Bitch fuck you. I ain't giving you hoes my money. Just count that one as a freebie. I ain't even get to touch the other bitch!"

## Chapter 3

I couldn't believe this shit was happening again! I hurried to put on my clothes, I knew it was close to time for him to throw our asses out. I opened the door and froze. Jasmine wasn't backing down.

"Oh you gone give us our fuckin money!" She yelled standing over him as he still laid butt ass naked in the bed.

"Y'all hoes ain't getting shit." He sat on the side of the bed laughing. "Dat pussy just got robbed, why can't you just take ya L and keep it moving?"

Before I knew it Jasmine grabbed the lamp from the bedside dresser and hit his ass on the left side of his head. He seen the blood leaking from his head and stood up to hit her. Before he knew it Jasmine struck him again, making him unconscious.

"Remember what I told you about standing up for yourself? Today's your time to shine baby."

After my feet were able to move from the place they seemed to be stuck in I walked over to Jasmine. She handed me the lamp. It took me a second to realize what she wanted me to do. After common sense returned back to me, I struck him with the lamp. It felt so good to finally fight back, I hit him again and again. And more after that.

"That's it baby girl!"

It was evident that there was no more life left in his body. The lamp fell from my hands and a tear dropped. I knew what I had did was wrong but it felt so good to have the upper hand for once.

"Grab your shit, let's go!" Jasmine said as she grabbed his jeans from the floor, emptying his pockets.

"This gotta be atleast $3,500."

"What are we gonna do with it?"

"Make daddy proud." She snatched his cellphone and called Daddy. I finished grabbing my things from the floor. I turned back and looked at his lifeless body. "Nah, you just take your L bitch."

## Chapter 4

Daddy picked us up from the hotel. It was so runned down that I doubted that they even had cameras. So I really wasn't worried about police or jail time. He was so proud of us, we had made enough money to chill the rest of the night. That night really changed my life. I've been through so much shit, let so many people hurt me and never stood up for myself. Seeing Jasmine standing toe to toe with the lil nigga really motivated me. I wasn't no weak bitch, but once you get so use to pain the fight just ain't worth it no more. I felt bad after the fact but if I haven't learned shit on these streets, it's a dog eat dog world and it's either eat or be ate. He would've did the same thing to me, is what I kept telling myself. Ima enjoy this night off. Tomorrow is Saturday, the night of the "Hoe Stroll." Monday thru Friday Daddy set up our appointments. On Saturdays we do the "Hoe Stroll," in which we work the streets. Daddy don't let us come home with anything less than $2,500. Either you make your $2,500 or don't even come home because it was a ass whooping waiting to happen. Curfew is at 6 AM and any time after that is a ass whooping. Sundays is church. Crazy huh, a pimp taking all his hoes to church service. Ha, ha welcome to my life.

"Girl you were shook up last night, but you did good."

"I ain't never did that shit before, but it felt good."

"Me? Or sending dude to the morgue," she smiled.

No lie, since yesterday I've started to look at Jasmine differently. I mean she's always had a big ass and perfect titties but damn now she looked Heaven sent. Her body was everything. I knew I didn't like girls, but she seemed perfect.

"Cassie! Girl you deaf?"

Hell no, I seen mouth moving but I was still staring at those titties tho. I hope she ain't see me.

"Girl I hear yo ass! Hell no not you, I was talking bout dude. If yhu weren't there I'll be getting more busted lips and black eyes from Daddy."

"I told you, you gotta stick up for yourself or these niggas gone keep tryna get over."

"I'm glad you were there with me. I love you!"

"I love you too baby girl." She said hugging me. This bitch smelled so good, gave me a natural high. I didn't want to let her go. Shake back Cassie, you strictly dickly, remember?

## Chapter 5

Saturday night started like all the others. Couple baller niggas here and there, couple old white men, and a few married men. I didn't care if they were married or not, didn't make me a difference to me when there was money to be made. After my third run I hit a dry spell. Twenty minutes had passed. I counted up my money. Shit, only $1,800. Married men pay more. Bring up something about their wife and they automatically think your gonna tell on their ass. More money for me! It started to drizzle. FUCK !

A black jaguar pulled up. The window rolled down.

"Hey pretty lady you okay? You need a ride."

"I'm okay." Didn't sound like a customer to me.

"You sure it looks like it's gonna get pretty bad out here."

"I said I'm okay."

"Come on, let me take you home, pretty lady." Now that was something I'm use to hearing. And plus the rain started to come down harder. I got in.

He was sexy. Medium build. Low cut. Pretty ass hair. Hazel brown eyes. And pretty ass teeth with a sexy ass smile to compliment them. Big ass diamond watch. No chains. You could tell he had money but not a flashy nigga, I thought. I looked away. For some reason his presence sent chills through my body. It's like I knew him already.

"What's a pretty lady like you doing out so late, in the rain, by yourself."

"Working." I said sharply.

"Working? For who's company? You gotta be getting paid big money to be out here like this."

"Big Ced's escorting services," I said nearly chuckling.

"Big Ced? Oh damn, I know dude! Don't you think your a little young for this street life?"

"Who the fuck are you Dr. Phil?"

"Shiiit! Pretty and aggressive. I'm just saying pretty lady."

"If you don't need my services can you please drop me the fuck off. I'm missing my runs and my money."

"You can't tell I got money?"

"What do you want from me?"

"Damn. Nothing I just wanna talk. It's that easy huh, they tell you what they want and you just go for it?"

"You know how it is."

"Why tho, your a beautiful young woman, you should be working behind someone's desk."

"Do you have a desk for me to work behind?"

"No."

"Well then, shut the fuck up. What do you do anyway? How do you afford this nice ass car?"

"I'm a pharmacist."

"Oh a fucking Harvard student! Let's give the pharmacist a round of applause people!"

He laughed, "Street pharmacist."

"You in the streets too, so how can you judge me?"

"You right, I guess one ain't no better than the other. I apologize pretty lady. So what's your name?"

"Cassie."

We pulled up to a red light and he looked at me. It's like he wanted to say something but nothing came out.

"You from around here?"

"Why? You from round here?"

"Yea. I'm from Highland Ave."

And that's when it hit me like a ton of bricks.

"Marcus?"

He slammed on brakes.

"How do you know me? Cassie who? Where you from?" He looked at me dead in my eyes like he was trying to see my soul.

"You look so familiar but I don't know nobody by the name of Cassie. Who are you?" A tear dropped.

"Marcus it's me, Gina."

## Chapter 6

This was the first time I ever ran into someone from my past since I've been on the streets. I never told anyone my true identity. Not even Daddy nor Jasmine knew who I really was. With this short haircut and grey contacts, I didn't even look like Gina. How did he even remember me? Marcus was a neighborhood friend when I use to live on Highland Ave. It's been so long since I've seen him. He pulled the car over and parked. He looked at me as if in disbelief, grabbed me, and hugged me as if he didn't want to let go. I could not hold it in no longer, I broke down.

"What, what happened? I mean how? Gina talk to me!" He yelled as I continued to cry.

"Gina it's been so long! Why did you move, please tell me what happened? How did you end up here, like this?"

"Like this? A prostitute? Life Marcus, life." I said sharply.

"Yes. Please tell me, you were captain of the cheerleading squad and in the top ten in our class. How did you end up on the streets, Gina?"

He looked so concerned and hurt. I've never opened up to anyone. I've never told a soul about my past. But for some reason I felt so comfortable with Marcus.

"And what happened to you Mr. Star Player and Quarterback of the year, didn't you get a scholarship? How did you end up in the streets?" I said rolling my eyes.

"Truth is, I lost my scholarship fucking with a broad named Ashley. Trifling lit' tramp bitch. We fell asleep in my dorm and I woke up to her going through my jean pockets. I choked her ass out and she reported me to the Dean. They kicked my black ass out of school. After that I never went back or even attempted to go back to school. Mama wasn't going, with me not being in school she kicked my ass out and I been on the streets ever since. I ain't have no help out here so I had to get it on my own. I threw away my dreams fucking with that bitch, til this day I haven't allowed my heart make me fall in love with another female."

"Who is Ashley?"

"You wouldn't know her if I told you."

"Over one female?"

"One was all it took. I lost way too damn much. So tell me. Tell me how you ended up here, 'Cassie'?" He said looking up at me.

I took a deep breath and opened my mouth to talk but the words never came out.

"Relax, Gina."

"Last year around this time I was working on my Master's in Pharmacology." I paused.

"And what happened? What went wrong?"

"My step daddy." I said as the tears started to flow again down my face.

"My step daddy," I repeated. "He stopped paying my tuition when I started to fight back."

"Fight back?"

"When I turned 13 and started maturing. Hips filling out and breasts started to grow, he started to molest me. Before then I had never been with a guy. To keep me quiet he promised me he would kill me and my mama. And he gave me money. Almost every night when my mama left for work he would come into my room. The next morning before I woke up he would be gone and there would be money left under my pillow. I never wanted for anything. I was scared, I didn't know what to do my mama wasn't making enough to make ends meet and he was the breadwinner. I knew it was wrong but I didn't know what else to do."

"Oh my God Gina, I didn't know."

"How could you, he kept me away from all guys, he said I was his. My senior year he made me go to prom alone and threatened to slit my throat if he found out I was with a guy."

"But what about your mom, did she ever expect anything?"

"Once I tried to tell her, she told me to shut my fucking mouth and stop lying. I was going to make her lose her man and if I did we would be on the streets. So I never tried to tell anyone else. My mama ended up having a stroke a couple months later, and he put her in a nursing home, so he could have his way with me. He moved us in a big house on the outskirts of town. When I got to college I stopped coming home on the weekends from school. Once he made a trip to my school and tried it again and this time I fought back. Soon after he left, I got evicted from my apartment & started receiving letters of past due balances from the school. I eventually had to withdrawal from all my classes. I didn't have close family. Once my mama got with him he cut off all our ties with our outside family. I didn't have anywhere to go. Started staying from house to house. And I ended up here, on the streets."

"Damn." That was all he could say. Could've sworn I seen a tear drop before he turned his head and looked back out the window as the rain continued to come down.

## Chapter 7

We talked for hours. It felt so good and free to actually open up and be on the same level as someone else. Marcus told me more about his life and how he moved his dope through the city. I told him about some of the craziest niggas I have ever encountered. We laughed all night. I enjoyed myself so much that I had lost track of time. 5:47 AM, shit ! I knew Daddy would be up looking for me.

"Oh shit, I got to go!" I said grabbing the latch on the door.

"Go where in such a hurry?"

"Back to Daddy, I mean Big Ced."

Chuckling, "Big Daddy huh?"

"You gone walk all the way home in the rain at this time of morning, with those shoes on?" he said pointing at my red bottom stilettos. "I'll take you home, just show me where."

I sat back as he proceeded to take off. He turned the radio up as "I Smell Smoke" by Mystical blared through the speakers of his jaguar. There, was no need to rush him, this nigga drove like a bat out of hell. It was 6:04 AM when we pulled up at the house. Probably meant an ass whooping was waiting for me. As good of a time I had with Marcus, this ass whooping was well worth it. He made me feel alive again. I didn't even care that I didn't have all of Daddy's money either.

"Real shit, it was really nice talking to you Gina."

"Hold that Gina shit down nigga, I'm Cassie now."

"I ain't with that shit, but I guess I'll respect your wishes."

"Good night or morning, whatever the hell you want to call it." I said laughing, grabbing the car latch to get out.

"Ain't you forgetting something?"

"What nigga?" I asked, confused.

"This," he said pulling out a wad of money out of his pocket.

"Marcus I, I can't accept that from you and plus you didn't get anything from me."

"I did. Your time and it was well spent." he said smiling.

"Thanks Marcus."

I got out of the car and it swiftly drove off. Whatever was waiting on me inside, I was ready and prepared for it. I knocked a couple times after a minute or two the door swung open. Daddy. Before I could speak he slapped me to the floor. I quickly grabbed the money and handed it to him. He snatched it out of my hand and counted it.

"$3,500? Bitch you really been doing your thing lately. Daddy's proud of you. I love you baby." he said kneeling down to kiss me.

"Daddy come back to bed." a voice from across the room said. It was Ashley standing in the doorway, with her arms folded.

"Naw. I think Cassie deserves to spend the rest of the day with big daddy," he said standing me up.

"And where am I supposed to sleep?"

"It's enough room on any couch you chose." he said sharply.

Ashley looked to be in belief. She didn't move she just stood there. I felt like I was on cloud 9. I smiled to myself. As we walked passed I whispered, "The one in the living room looks comfy."

## Chapter 8

Daddy's bed was so big and comfortable, felt like I was laying on clouds. Nothing like the beds we slept in. As good as I felt in Daddy's arms, I couldn't sleep. I stayed up thinking about Marcus. He saved me from an ass whooping that was well deserved, being short on Daddy's money and breaking curfew. He said he moved big dope and but damn how much, for him to give me $1,700 effortlessly. I mean he didn't even count it. $1,700 for just conversation? I wish life was that easy for me. As bad of experiences he said he's had with females, why did he feels so comfortable to give that much money to me? Gina. . . I meant Cassie.

Daddy must've been tired. He didn't even touch me. I have heard stories of the wild sex the other girls had when they got a chance to sleep in Daddy's bed. I wasn't in the mood anyway. I finally took my ass to sleep.

I woke up to the smell of breakfast cooking. Daddy was gone. I looked at the clock. It was 10:32. I got up and walked to my room. Jasmine was lying down sleeping in my bed. I went to the rest room and cleaned myself up and walked over to Jasmine.

"Jazz! Jazz, wake up."

Sleepily she arose.

"Where were you Cassie? I stayed up all night waiting on you to come home."

"A couple runs ran over," I lied. I don't know why I lied to Jasmine. She was my best friend. But if I told her that I ran into an old friend, I was afraid that she would ask me things about my past, that I wasn't ready to tell. So I thought it was just best to keep it short and simple.

"I was so scared for you I just knew Daddy was gone beat your ass!" she said looking at my face as if looking for war wounds. "Did you just get here, where did you stay?"

"Guess!" I said smiling ear to ear.

"In a big ass mansion with some old rich white man?" she said laughing.

"Hell no silly, even better!"

"Where?! Tell me bitch!"

"With Daddy."

"With Daddy?! Bitch stop lying"

"I swear!"

"What about Ashley? Did she sleep with yall?" she asked smiling while running her finger up my arm trying to be funny.

Laughing my ass off, "What I told you about that, hoe ! Hell no, that bitch slept on the couch."

Jasmine's eyes bucked, "WHAT!"

"Yup. Just me and Daddy."

"Better watch you back, Cass I told you how she was. She gone do whatever it takes to stay Daddy's one and only. And you don't mean shit to her, just another bitch in her way."

"Ugh, fuck her let's go eat."

We walked downstairs and as usual we were the last ones to the kitchen. Ashley was still standing at the stove while the other girls ate. Daddy was in the living room with a couple of his homeboys playing Madden. Ashely walked over to us with two plates. She sat Jasmine's plate down first and plopped mine down on the table causing some of my eggs to fall off my plate. She smirked and walked away. I didn't say a word. I didn't mind I was still on my high from Marcus and Daddy. One monkey don't stop no show.

A couple hours after Daddy's friends left he walked into the gym room where all the girls were working out.

"Yall get cleaned up, time to get some new wardrobe." About 3-4 times a month Daddy takes us to get new clothes. We are only brought along to try on clothes to make sure they fit. Daddy picks out every girl's wardrobe. I loved getting new clothes. We all got dressed and climbed into Daddy's stretch Hummer. We pulled up to The Showroom, an underground, urban, high scaled clothing joint. They loved to see Daddy coming, they knew he was there to spend some money. As we walked in all the workers quickly greeted us. Each working grabbed a girl and started her to trying on clothes. When one of the girls motioned me to come with her Daddy grabbed my arm.

"I got this one." he said. I seen Ashely look back but continued to keep up with the worker of The Showroom.

"Here you go, get you something nice." My damn jaw dropped. Daddy handed me 8 hundred dollar bills.

"And I know how much I gave you, as soon as the cashier gives you your change, run me my money and don't fuck with me." he said squeezing my arm tighter.

"Okay Daddy." I was shocked. Daddy has NEVER given none of his females money in their hands. If we needed it or wanted it he bought it himself. He didn't even follow me around the store he let me walk around freely with his money and without a worker. I could feel the stares coming from every girl in the room.

I be feeling like the man when I walk thru. I felt just like Rich Homie Quan until I looked over at Jasmine, and she had a nervous, almost scared look on her face.

## Chapter 9

A couple days went by, I was soon coming off my high. Daddy was still being nice to me, but that Petty Betty bitch Ashley was starting to work my last nerves. What was her beef with me ? Daddy fuck all his hoes, but now she's mad at me. For what? He didn't even touch me that night. Was it because of the whole ordeal at The Showroom? She didn't have a reason to be tripping on me, bitch should just step her pussy up. But you know what I'm kinda starting to love this newfound attention from her.

It had been a while since I've seen Marcus. I thought about him here and there, nothing too heavy though. He was just another nigga like the rest of em. Was he looking for a quick fuck the night he picked me up, or was he just helping a "pretty lady" out? His demeanor didn't seem as if he was looking for a quick fuck, but what if it wasn't me that he picked up or what if he didn't find out it was me, Gina. The type of lifestyle he lived bitches probably come and go. He wasn't a big deal to me, but it felt good to have a friend on the outside of this life.

I hadn't had a job run all day. It was late in the day. I was ready to go back to work and show off my sexy new outfits and expensive ass shoes, guaranteed to make me a pretty penny. Haven't heard from Jasmine since earlier she must've been out on a run. I laid back down in bed. I probably could've went down stairs and sat amongst the other girls, but its better when Jasmine is with me. And they're so stuck up Ashley's ass, I'm pretty sure they probably wouldn't be happy to see me. I drifted off to sleep only to be awaken by Daddy moments later.

"Baby girl wake up you got a job to run. Go ahead and get dressed, your ride will be hea in a minute."

"Okay Daddy."

I got up and put on one of my most expensive dresses and waited til my ride arrived. I heard a blow outside. I knew it had to be for me. I walked outside and proceeded out the door. I could hear "Ride on 4s" by J Dawg coming from inside the black Audi. Must be a Texas nigga, I thought to myself and smiled. They say "everything's bigger in Texas." I opened the door and got into the car.

"Hey pretty lady," a familiar voice said from under a LA Dodgers fitted cap. It was Marcus.

## Chapter 10

He pulled off. I couldn't believe my eyes. It was really Marcus. How the hell did he get in touch with Daddy to even get a "date" with me.

"How did you find me?"

"This my city, ain't no nigga too hard for me to find. I know Ced from way back. He use to be one of my runners."

"One of your runners?"

"Yea, one of my runners. Back in the day he was a rutty-poot ass nigga. I was kinda surprised when you told me that's who you were working for. But I guess anybody can come up. Real shiesty ass nigga too."

"What you mean?"

"Nigga started feeling himself. My money started coming up short. Nigga was shortening up my product, selling the rest of my shit on the side and keeping the money. Damn near stumped a pothole in the muhfucka. I charged that shit to the game and just let the nigga go."

"Damn, that's fucked up."

"Yea straight bullshit, but fuck that nigga what you been up to?"

"Same ole, same ole kinda confused now tho."

"Why?"

"What made you go through this trouble to find me, I mean having to call a nigga that crossed you just to have a "date" with me?"

"That ain't no trouble for me. But to be honest Gina, I mean Cassie I thought about you that whole night, and everyday since. Like I don't know if it was because of the vibe we had that night or if its the burning desire I got to get you out of this shit."

"What shit?"

"What shit, this lifestyle you living! You can't tell me you want to do this shit the rest of your life. You don't want out of that shit? Find you a nigga that really love you! You damn sure can't think that nigga love you and he got you doing this shit and got other bitches besides you!"

"Stop the fucking car!"

"I'm not stopping shit, for what?"

"Who the fuck do you think you are to judge me? Who are you, Captain Save a Hoe? You can't fucking save me, can't nobody save me this is who I am! That Gina shit, its dead Marcus! What don't you understand! And you're wrong he does love me! He got me off these streets, I don't have to live house to house no more! He feeds me, and cloth me! Who else was doing that shit before he came along, my trifling ass stepdaddy?!"

"And you really think that's love don't you? You know what, get the fuck out my shit!" he yelled, stopping the car.

## Chapter 11

I got out of his shit, damn near in the middle of nowhere. Fuck him, how can he judge me his life ain't no fucking better. He act like he getting money the legit way. His ass in these streets too! He should be worried about working on his damn self! I got me! Mad as hell I'm walking this lonely ass road in the middle of no where, in some of my best shit! What a fucking waste! I'll just walk til I find the nearest building and call Daddy. After walking for about 5 minutes. I heard a car behind me drive up and slow down. I turned around and it was Marcus. Half of me was happy he came back because I couldn't walk no further in these shoes on this gravel road, and the other half wanted to slap the piss out of him.

"What the fuck do you want, Marcus?"

"Get in the car, Gina!" I guess this nigga was trying me, I asked him to stop calling me that shit!

"Fuck you!"

"So you gone bust up yo new shoes being stubborn huh?" He chuckled. I had to laugh too. I looked down and my color was starting to chip off from the rocks.

"Shut the fuck up." I said walking across the car to get back in.

"I see you got a short ass fuse. What did I say to make you go off like that. I thought you would've been happy."

"How can you be so eager to "help" me, Marcus you don't even know me."

"How can you say that Gina."

"See that's what I'm talking about. You know Gina, not Cassie. Things have changed Marcus. You've told me all those stories about how hoes tried to get over on you. How you know I'm not the same? I'm no different than them other hoes."

"That's just a lie you tell yourself to convince yourself that this life is for you. You can't fool me G, I knew you way before this street shit. You might can play them other niggas with that shit but I know better."

"So you never thought about getting out this shit G, do you have a plan? Don't you wanna settle down, get married, && have kids one day?"

"Who gone wife a hoe, Marcus?"

"Nobody, with that mindset you got, if you think like a hoe you gone do hoe shit! This shit not you, you can shake this shit I know it. And you got the nerve to tell me that nigga love you? That shit ain't love if he got you doing this shit. Do he give you any of the money you make?"

I couldn't say a word. I never thought of it like that. I just sat back and continued to let him talk.

"Exactly, you out here sucking and fucking for this nigga and what you get out of it? A roof over yo head and clothes on yo back?? That's all ? If he didn't give you a place to stay how the fuck you gone make his money? How the fuck he gone keep tabs on you and his money? Clothes? He buy that shit so you can make him some money. When the last time he ever bought you a nice sundress or a pair of jeans to lounge around in? Tell me Gina. And can't no nigga love you if he beating your ass. The night I picked you up I saw that ring under your eye. I've been around enough bitches to know what makeup can do. So don't you ever fix yo mouth to me and tell me that nigga love you, because he don't ! You just another bitch to him, when you get wore out and can't make him no more money he gone kick yo ass to the curb like the other bitches!"

Still, I said nothing as the tears rolled down my face. I turned my head toward the window so he wouldn't see me. Nobody has ever broke it down to me like that. Is there really a life outside of this shit? Where would I go without Daddy? How could I leave Daddy after all he's done for me? I sat back and enjoyed the ride as my mind continued to race.

We pulled up to this big ass brick house, it was decked out ! The type of shit you see on tv. White picket fence with a three car garage. It was beautiful. He pulled into the drive way.

"Where are we Marcus?"

"Welcome to the king's den," he smiled

"This you? Stop bullshitting!"

"Get out, pretty lady."

We got out of the car. Two pit bulls met us once he opened the gate.

"Don't worry, I got you. Sit Ki-Lo & Roxie. The dogs quickly obeyed. He unlocked the door and we walked in. It was so beautiful. There is no way a street nigga set this up like this, his mama had to have something to do with this.

"Mi casa, su casa!" His voice echoed through the house.

We talked and laughed for hours, watched movies, and he even cooked. Felt like I was in Heaven. It started to get late. We climbed into the car and started back to Daddy's house. After we pulled up, he reached me a knot full of money.

"I put a lil extra in there for you too. You, not that nigga. You hear me?"

"Thanks Marcus," I said smiling.

"Let me be the one to make you do that."

"What?"

"Make you smile pretty lady. If I gotta call this fuck nigga every morning to see you and take up all yo time from these other niggas, I will. I want you out these streets Gina and ima get you out of em, believe that. All it takes is time. Good night, lady. See you tomorrow." He said winking his eye. I could hear the sounds of "Fuck Up Some Commas" by Future playing as he pulled off. I walked inside the house.

## Chapter 12

The house was quiet. Daddy's car was in the front but he was nowhere to be found. He must've dosed of in bed. I walked quickly to my room and closed the door. I took a couple of the hundreds out of the wad an stuffed them in my bra. I got up and looked for Daddy. As I expected he was laid out across he king size bed.

"Daddy, Daddy I'm back." I said holding the money out. He took the money, counted it, and smiled.

"You've been doing a damn good job baby, keep it up" he said sitting up to kiss me. He then grabbed my breast my fucking heart dropped. Did he feel the money? Fuck! I stood back waiting on the ass beating, instead he drifted back to sleep smacking my ass on the way out. I went to the kitchen and hid the knife down by my side once I got back to the room I took the sheets off my bed and in a small corner I cut a hole in the mattress and stuck my money in it. Soon after I was startled by footsteps passed the door. Fuck I forgot to close the do0r! I quickly put my hands up as if I were praying. And said Amen, hoping that whoever the footsteps were would think I had been praying. No one came in, no one said anything so I brushed it off. I climbed into the bed and drifted into deep thought. Do Daddy really love me? Is he just using me like Marcus said? Do Marcus really care enough about me to try to get me out of this lifestyle? Or was Marcus hating on Daddy because of their previous beefs? Ugh, I hate when my mind gets this way, just rambling all over the place. I drifted on to sleep.

## Chapter 13

Marcus kept his promise like he said. Everyday around 9-10AM he was parked outside the house. It had been going on for weeks now. We'd been spending so much time together. It felt different, something I wasn't use to. A man spending time with me with me not having to exchange any sexual favors. Is this what he meant when he said something about love? Apparently I didn't know what love meant, let Marcus tell it. My step daddy & Daddy were the only two men to ever tell me they loved me. But Marcus said it couldn't be love if they were hurting me in the process. A couple of my clients told me they loved me but I knew it all came with the game. Now I was confused.

Some days we went out to eat, we went to see basketball games, to the movies, and even long walks in the park. The days we didn't go out to eat he taught me how to make dishes around his kitchen. It tickles me to see a street nigga really throw down in the kitchen. He showed me a part of life I never seen before. And once we finished eating some days he would massage my feet. He really knew how to make a woman feel good. But what about all the stories of the woman fuckin over him? What was it about Marcus that he was hiding? Ugh, it was happening again, my mind was on 100. I had to admit I loved his company and if he did have something to hid I would have to find out sooner or later but ima enjoy this why it lasts.

I had drifted off midways into Taken 3. I was awaken by Marcus calling my name.

"Gina. G, wake up,"

"Yea, Marcus what's up."

"I wanted to ask you for a favor," I knew sooner or later he would ask me for sex. But how could I be mad I did this shit every night with random ass niggas.

"Can you spend the night."

"You would have to call and talk to a Ced." "Naw, I'm not looking for that type of party. You don't have to sleep with me. There's enough rooms here that you can sleep in or you could sleep right here, but I want you here when I wake up Gina." He said. I knew it was sincere. He didn't even look the same with those puppy dog eyes.

"Marcus, I can't. I have to go back to Daddy. I meant Ced!"

"So after all I've done to show you the good life, you'd still rather go back huh? I guess it ain't no saving you huh? I can't believe this shit!" He said shaking his head.

"Marcus, I'm sorry!"

"Come on let's go, it's getting late!" He said snatching his Nike windbreaker from off the back of the couch. He opened the garage and he opened the door to a Black Navigator. Black must be this nigga favorite color, I thought to myself. He pulled off. As we pulled up to Daddy's house. He gave me the money and didn't say a word. I got out and immediately I heard Don't save her, she don't want to be saved by Project Pat. He jetted off damn near burning rubber in Daddy's drive way.

I opened the door and Ashley was the first face I seen.

## Chapter 14

"And where the fuck you been bitch?"

"Mind yours," I said walking passed her to find Daddy and give him the money. Soon after I washed up and laid down in bed, trying to forget the events that happened today. I hurt Marcus, I know I did. I couldn't help it how could I just not come home. How could I just leave and not tell Daddy. Ever since The Showroom I've noticed a difference in Jasmine. I mean we still talked but it didn't feel the same. The happiness in her voice when she spook to me, turned into what seemed like sadness to me. What's up with her, like really? I never minded it and went on to bed.

The next morning I woke up late. If I was still in bed and didn't get awaken by Daddy must've meant Marcus didn't call. He must've really been pissed off. Fuck it, I thought to myself. Hungry, I knew by this time I had already missed breakfast. I got up and walked downstairs, no one was in the kitchen, not even Jasmine and all the pots and dishes had already been washed and put up. My damn stomach started to growl. Fuck it I'll fix up something Marcus showed me.

After I finished cooking, Daddy walked into the kitchen.

"Damn baby, what's that smell?"

"Oh nothing much, just something I whipped together."

"It smells damn good" he said grabbing the extra food I had cooked.

"This probably the best food I done had in a while," he said as Ashley walked in. She looked as if her whole world was crashing down. I seen the tears well up in her eyes. She turned around and walked out of the kitchen. After me and Daddy finished eating I walked back to my room. I heard footsteps walking behind me. Still I laid down, but jumped up startled at the sound of my door closing and the door locking. It was Ashley.....

## Chapter 15

I was honestly getting tired of this bitch. There wasn't a smile on her face and I could fire in her eyes. She walked quickly to my bed. Before I could open my mouth to say anything this bitch grabbed my head and slammed it into the bedside table.

"WTF," I said holding my head as I felt it start to bleed. I started to swing at her but she was quicker. She had punched me in my left jaw.

"Bitch, you think you could come in here and take my man, after all the shit I been through. After all the shit I've done for this motherfucker. He got the nerve to be hot behind yo young ass? Bitch you got me fucked up!" She screamed as she continued to punch me.

"Do you know how many niggas, I done jacked and set up for this nigga? Putting myself at risk, and he got the nerve to put out of my room of 4 years?! And you got the nerve to be riding around with Marcus like you wifey or something, BITCH!"

As soon as his name rolled of her lips, it hit me like a hurricane. This was the Ashley Marcus had been talking about the whole time. He had said that Ced was one of his runners and that he tried to fuck over him and his money. Ced must've put Ashley on Marcus to rob him that night. It all started to make sense. She must've seen him when he dropped me off.

I tried to fight back as she continued you to punch and kick me. It was useless. Once she got me on the ground all I could do was ball up like a fetus in the womb. I prayed someone would hear the commotion and come get this bitch off of me. Ashley wouldn't let up.

"And I seen you the other day, doing something on the side of this fucking bed. What were you doing."

I was too hurt to move. She got on her knees and looked under the bed swiping her hand back and forth only to find shoe boxes. She then tore all my sheets of my bed. FUCK! I knew it was over with. From the time I've been spending with Marcus I had saved up at least $4,000. I couldn't move nor speak but I knew this would be the end for me.

"What do we have here?" she said reaching her hand into the hole in the mattress.

"Bingo!" She pulled out the wad of money.

"Let's see how much Daddy likes you now!" She stood up and yelled. "DAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAADDY !!!"

He came to the door in a matter of seconds. He damn near knocked the door off the hinges trying to pry it open. He walked into the room. The scream must've started the other girls too because they were all standing at the door.

"What the fuck going on in here?" he yelled seeing shit all over the room from the heat of the fight.

"Yo lit bitch been holding out on you, Daddy" she said handing him the money.

"Bitch iz you stupid?" he screamed and he got a running start to kick me in my stomach.

"I didn't steal it, he gave it to me," I managed to get out between the kicks and punches.

"He gave it to you? Bitch YO money, is MY money what the fuck you talking bout he gave it to you! So you been stealing from me all along! You thought you could come ere and get rich off of me bitch! You done fucked up!"

I started to fade in and out of consciousness. Before I went out I could hear him tell the other girls to come join in. The pain coming from 6 people kicking, punching, and scratching me didn't amount to the pain I felt seeing Jasmine joining in. My body went numb and I went unconscious!

## Chapter 16

I attempted to open my eyes, but all I could see is darkness. I had to be lying in a bed. It was so soft and comfortable. I could hear a familiar beeping noise and people talking. I laid a lil longer and attempted to turn over, my body ached in pain. I couldn't move. Where am I? What happened to me? Where is Daddy? Where is Jasmine? Hadn't really thought about Marcus after he flipped out on me a couple days back.

I could hear the voices getting closer. "She's still asleep. Vitals are stable," the first voice said.

"She was pretty messed up when they picked her up, she was a inch away from being dead. She's been her for about three weeks, no movement at all." said the second voice. "I was in the hospital. How? Why? I grunted in pain as I tried to move again.

"She's moving! Mrs. Johnson, Mrs. Johnson! Can you hear me? Tap your finger, if you can hear me." I could hear her loud and clear but my finger didn't move. Everything ached. She continued screaming in my ear trying to get me "awake." There was long beat and 15-20 minutes I was out. Had to be morphine.

I awaken to more voices, "It's been six days, since then sir. I could have sworn I heard her grunt, but maybe I didn't. I'm sorry sir."

"Any movement today?"

"No sir, not that I'm aware of."

"Well I'll be here when she wakes up."

The voice sounded so familiar, but I couldn't make out who it was. Was it Daddy? Did he come to my rescue? Was he ready to hurt whoever hurt me and put me in this hospital? Daddy didn't let nobody fuck with his girls. I tried to smile, but the pain was unbearable. Then, there was the long beep again and I went out.

I was awaken but an uproar of noise coming from a distance. People shouting and the sounds of shoes running.

"Somebody, grab the crash cart!" Some must've coded, I thought.

"This is Mrs. Johnson. She hasn't awaken since she came to us on May 13th. Her vitals have been stable. Respirations and heart rate have been okay. She just haven't woke up yet. I strongly believe that she will pull through and when she does I would like for you to set up an arrangement with the nearest Women's Shelter once she has been discharged." said a voice in my room.

"Mrs. Johnson, Mrs. Johnson my name is Ms. Catherine Green, I will be your case manager. I will make sure you have a good place to stay once you are discharged from here." said Mrs. Green. I could hear her walk away and soon after another set of footsteps walked out of the room.

I attempted to open my eyes, they opened slightly. I could barely see, but was able to make out that someone was sitting in my room. A male figure. The person jumped up I could see they held something long by their side.

"She's up! Nurse, Nurse! I think she's woke!" the male voice said. I attempted to open my eyes wider. It was useless. I closed them and drifted back to sleep.

"Mr. Jackson you've been here every day. You should go home and rest," said Mrs. Rose. I was now getting use to the voices of the nurses.

"No I want to be here once she wakes up, I have to be here." the male voice started to sound depressed.

"Okay Mr. King."

Mr. King? I've never knew Daddy's full name. Was his last name King? Ced King? Marcus? No Marcus' last name was Williams, I think. Everything seemed like a blur to me. Who could this man be? And why was he waiting on me to wake up?

I attempted to open my eyes. This time they opened. At first my eyesight was blurry. After a while everything started to clear out. I could see the oxygen mask on my face. I looked down and seen an IV hooked into my arm. I looked around the room, like I expected I was in the hospital. The room looked different from other hospital rooms. How long had I been here? Then my attention directed to the man in the chair who now, appeared to be sleeping. I couldn't believe it.

Curtis motherfucking King! My stepdaddy.

## Chapter 17

I couldn't believe my eyes. Was it the medicine that had me out of it and starting to see things that aren't there? I closed my eyes tightly, hoping that when I opened them that it would have just been my imagination. I opened my eyes and there he was, in the flesh, Curtis King. How did he know I was here? How did he find me? Why was he even here? Why does he have a cane? My mind started to race. I was at a loss for words. I opened my mouth but no words came out, only a single tear fell from my eyes. Why did he come here? After life returned to my body, I finally spoke.

"Why are you here? And how did you know I would be here?!"

"None of that matters baby girl," he said coughing he sounded weak.

"The hell you say! How did you even get in?"

"What do you mean? We're family, I'll always be your family. I raised you remember?"

"You molested me too!"

"I know what I've done Gina, I'm not here so you could point the finger at me."

"Then why the fuck are you here?! And what's up with the fake ass cane." I said sternly.

"We'll Gina, I am a very sick man"

"Tell me something I don't know," rolling my eyes.

"Just let me explain. I was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer a couple months ago and most recently the doctors have found air pockets in my lungs. My days left here are now numbered. I've been to your mama's grave and said my goodbyes now I'm coming to you. Gina I know that I hurt you and misused you, I know that not even in a million years you would forgive me but I was really fucked up then. I can't tell you why I did those things to you, maybe I just wasn't happy with myself. You were only a child. No child deserved the things I put you through. I wouldn't be surprised if you didn't know how to trust another man once you've been through the shit I did to you. You probably don't know what love is or how to love a man. It's not you Gina, I took that away from you and I'm sorry. Lord knows, I am sorry!"

By now the tears were flying down my face.

"Your mama loved you Gina. I know you think it's bullshit because she kept you there with me. But she really loved you Gina. The real truth about yo mama is, that I'm the reason she's gone. You remember when I got you that in-ground pool and bought you that green and pink swimming suit," he said trying to catch his breath.

"That day when I came into your room, yo mama came home from work early. She saw me, she saw what I was doing to you. That was the same night I let you stay with Tracey. That night we fought. Drag in - drag out. We argued that whole night. When she calmed down, I drifted off to sleep, that's when I heard it." He said sobbing.

"It was a single gun shot. I searched the bed for yo mama, she wasn't there. I grabbed my .45 from the bedside dresser and to my surprise it was gone. I reached for the shot gun under the bed thinking someone had broken into to the house. When I reached the kitchen, there she was laid in a pool of blood with the gun still in her hand. I knew it was because of me! All these years I've lived this guilt, and I didn't want to take it to my grave. Regardless of what I did to you Gina, I really love you. I know it doesn't mean shit now but I honestly do! As much as I try to blame my sickness on the heaving smoking and drinking I know that I'm reaping what I sow. Lord knows I am!"

My sadness turned into anger!

"You think just because your one foot out the ground you could come in here tell me that bullshit and everything would be cool! And your conscious would be clear!! You don't know half of the shit you put me through! After you got me kicked out of my apartment I was sleeping house to house, leaving me to live on the streets! I've been selling my body since then, selling my soul just so I could have a place to stay and food to eat! I did all I could to keep some nigga named Ced, who made us call him Daddy happy while this nigga was beating my ass when money was short! Now I'm laying in a hospital bed in excruciating pain and don't know how the fuck I got here, nor have I heard from that nigga and you want me to show you sympathy? FUCK YOU! You fucked up my life. Me and my mama was good until you showed up! We didn't have shit but we would have made it ! I hate you, I fucking hate you." I screamed while crying my eyes out.

"Cassie are you serious?" He managed to say through the sobbing and coughing.

"Who is Ced, does he have a birthmark on his neck?"

"Yes. Why?"

His mouth dropped as he held his hand over his heart. He tried to speak but no words came out just mumbles. He kept reaching for his heart and eventually got out, "That's my nephew." He took his last breath.

## Chapter 18

I laid in bed trying to make sense of it all. It was useless. To sum it up my life was just fucked up! Molested by my step daddy and pimped out by his nephew. One sick ass family. I didn't cry when they carried him out the room. As much as I didn't want to see him, I'm glad I did. I now had some closure. I made a promise to myself to go to my mother's grave. Soon after he was gone I had drifted on to sleep. Once I awakened I noticed a letter on my bedside table. It had no name on it. It read:

Hey Cassie,

I kno I'm probably the last person you would want to talk to but I had to write you. I miss you so much around the house. Things were crazy the day you left. You're probably like fuck me, but I had to do it. As mad as he was that day we probably would've been sharing the same hospital room. He has never told us to join in, he usually handled his business alone. Maybe it was Ashley that pumped him up. I felt so bad. It's like he had no remorse. He stripped all of your clothes off and picked your body up and dropped you off on the street in some quiet neighborhood. You were really close to death. I thought you were dead until I heard one of my clients chilling with a couple of his niggas and they were talking about it. Said that someone found you and took you to the hospital. I tried to warn you about her but you didn't listen. She's been plotting against you since the night you slept with Daddy. Once you started bringing in all that extra money and getting all that attention from Daddy she couldn't take it. She even went so far as to follow you once you started getting those calls every day. She told Daddy it was that time of the month for her and a couple other girls, and he let her drive. She knew that was the only thing Daddy wouldn't go buy himself. She was even more hurt once she found out who you had been spending your time with. She told a couple girls how much she was in love with him back in the day, and how Daddy persuaded her to rob him, promising her how he would change her life and that she would never have to want for anything. The house seems so different without you here. I wrote you to tell you that Daddy isn't finished with you. Once you recover he wants you back home. He said you still owed him money and that everyday your still walking this green Earth your gonna pay for stealing from him. He said he left the last bitch slide and he'll never in his life do it again. Run Cassie and never look back !

Have I not been through enough shit today? I let the morphine take me out.

## Chapter 19

I finally found out why I was the hospital and what happened to me. I wasn't mad at Jasmine I couldn't be. When you're in this line of work, sometimes you take a loss or two. I'm thankful to be alive. God has got to have a purpose for me to survive that horrific incident. I can't go back, I just can't. I vow to make a change in my life.

A couple days later the hospital started me on therapy. I was learning to walk without my walker. The pain started to subdue. I started to think of Marcus and why I haven't heard from him or seen him, I'm not surprised. Everything good in my life was gone, why should he stick around trying fix all the fuck ups in my life. After therapy I got back into bed. I watched as the nurses paced back and forth. Patients standing at the nurses station asking for pain meds. I occasionally talked with my case manager and she let know that there was a women's shelter on the other side of town with openings that had openings. I was excited I was tired of laying in this hospital bed. I was ready to leave and restart my life. As soon as I turned my tv off in my room and started to drift off I heard a familiar voice coming from the nurses station. They were looking for me. I pretended to be sleep as the footsteps entered my room.

"Whassup baby? I heard you were doing better. As soon as you fully recover you know you can come home to me. My home is always open for you. I know you haven't heard from me in a while but it would've killed me to see you like that. I love you so much. I've been in love with you since I first met you. I'm so sorry how things turned out for you but I'll be sure to make it up and make sure it never happens again. You just come home baby." Then there was a kiss on my forehead. Still I didn't move or blink. I laid there as if I was lifeless. Soon after I heard the footsteps leave the room. It was Daddy. And there was also a case of flowers now on my side table. I knew he would find me.

## Chapter 20

I thought about Daddy as I laid in bed. Maybe Jasmine was wrong and he really did miss me. How could I trust her after the shit she pulled? For all I know she could be a hater like the rest of them hoes. I felt so alone in this cold ass world. No family and no friend. The one friend I did have, he was gone. Hadn't heard from him since I've been here. Could he had been that upset with me? I missed him, I really did. I missed the fun I had with him and way he made me smile when we were together.

My strength was returning and I kno I'd be leaving here soon. My case manager found me a place to stay. Should I go back to Daddy's house? At least I knew I had a guaranteed home and I had nothing to worry about. How would I survive in this women's home, I don't know nothing about anything. Curtis didn't let me work so I had no work ethics and no work experience. Maybe they would teach me all of that at the women's center.

The nurse entered the room, telling me it was time for therapy. I grabbed my cane and headed to rehab. After 30-40 minutes of therapy. I could see a figure standing in the mirror watching me. I couldn't make out a face. Maybe it was another patient. I continued my therapy. After therapy I returned to my room. To my surprise there was a beautiful case of flowers there waiting for me. The other ones Daddy bought had died and been thrown away already. I guess he sent me some more, I felt so special. I climbed back in bed and reached for the card. There was no name or return address. The message read: I miss you. Hope you get better soon. Hmmmm, it had to be from Daddy. I smelled the flowers and instantly fell in love with their sweet aroma. I watched the television for a hour or two and went on to sleep. I was awakened by a voice.

"Hey pretty lady. Wake up!"

I opened my eyes and to my surprise it was Marcus. Damn, did he look good. I missed him so much, but where the hell had he been?

"Whassup stranger, haven't seen you in decades." I said rolling my eyes.

"Don't even go there shorty," he said laughing. "I been here every night."

"Every night?! Marcus you are full of shit."

"No bullshit, pretty lady I'm serious! I've been coming here every night and watching you sleep, been paying the nurse at the nurse's station and security to let me in after visiting hours to see you. Who you think been paying these hospital bills?" He said winking his eye.

"But why tho? Why are you doing all of this for me Marcus?"

"I like to watch you sleep," he said giggling "naw I told you I see potential in you, your worth way more than the situations you put yourself in. I got something hooked up for you when you get out of here, it shouldn't be much longer. I seen you walking earlier.

"That was you in the window?"

"Yea I been watching you make a comeback. Promise me you won't go back Gina, he damn near killed you! You don't need that shit in your life! You need to get out and make something of yourself."

"I won't," I said almost unsure. I didnt know what I wanted. Marcus made a good point. But Daddy said he missed me and he was sorry. Ugh.

"Gina I'm serious, I'm not gone keep tryna help you if that's what you want to do with yo life. I'm not the one to judge, I'm just saying look at where it got you. Gina you been here for months. The nurses didn't even think you were going to make it, when you got here. You were unresponsive for 3 or 4 weeks. Come on now you gotta be smarter then that, then this nigga dropped you off on the side of the street like you wasn't shit!"

"Okay, Marcus, Okay! I get your point. You don't have to throw it in my face."

"I'm not tryna throw it in your face pretty lady, I'm tryna make sure you don't go back. And don't worry he gone pay for this shit!"

"What do you mean Marcus? Please don't do anything crazy!"

"Exactly what I said, and I brought you something too." He said digging into his pocket. It was a cellphone.

"Take this, my number is already programmed in it. Hit me up whenever you need me, okay? No matter when or what time, I'll be hea or where ever you need me to be."

"Okay, Marcus....."

"We'll I'm bout to go talk to your case manager and let her know you won't be needing that women's shelter."

"Why? Where am I gonna go?"

"Don't worry, pretty lad-" he said before being interrupted by some pretty ass yellow chick walking through the door.

"Hey baby," he said to her as she hugged him.

"This is my friend, Gina. Gina this is Mariah, my girl."

Well I'll be damned!

## Chapter 21

I knew this shit was too good to be true! How the fuck could he drop the ball on me like this? Could he have had someone else all this time? Where was "Mariah" when he was spending all that time with me? How does she feel about spending all this damn money on me? Where was she that night he asked me to stay? Niggas ain't shit and Marcus is just like the rest of em! I should've known. But if he got a girl, why the way he helping me the way he is? Maybe because we were childhood friends, I thought. I'm sorry but I wouldn't allow my man to help another bitch. Maybe she was one of those naive females. She had to be something special tho, because Marcus has been through it with females, and I know he wouldn't just fuck with anybody. Why did I think I was special to him? A street nigga and a hoe. Power couple huh?? I still felt some type of way. You just don't do people like that. I wanted to text Marcus so bad and curse his ass out but my pride wouldn't let me. You know what, fuck that shit!

So your in a relationship? Like wtf Marcus ! -Gina

Wats the problem G? - Marcus

Nothing Marcus ! - Gina

G, I asked u to stay u left me to be with that nigga. And you've been in the hospital for a while now. Life goes on pretty lady. What if I waited on u and u never left that nigga alone. -Marcus

I didn't text back. Marcus was right. Life does go on. How could I expect him to just wait on me. Ugh the one chance I did have, I fucked it up. I'm getting exactly what I deserve. I gotta start making better decisions.

Everything okay? -Marcus

Yea. I'm fine. - Gina

So u not mad at me? :( -Marcus

Lol, no Marcus. I understand really. -Gina

I'm so handsome I thought you would've flipped out over me  -Marcus

 don't flatter yourself Marcus !!!! -Gina

We still friends? - Marcus

Sure. No hard feelings. :) -Gina

You love me? - Marcus

Huh? Wait, what! This really threw me for a loop. He just told me he had a girl, now he's asking do I love him? Was this some type of game Marcus was playing? Do he love me? Do I even know how to love someone?

It's okay for friends to love each other G.... - Marcus

Of course, I love you Marcus. -Gina

Really? - Marcus

Yea, buddy! lol -Gina

I put my phone on airplane mode, sat it inside my dresser, and let the thoughts take over. Eventually I ended up falling asleep, but was awaken by the nurse.

"Ms. Williams, you have a visitor."

In walks in, non other than, Daddy.

"How's Daddy baby doing?"

"I'm fine."

"When are you getting out of here?"

"Soon. I'm getting my strength back and starting to walk again."

"I can't wait for you to come home, I miss you so much. The girls miss you too, even Ashley. Jasmine asks about you all the time."

"I miss yall too."

"I came to ask you for a favor."

"Me?"

"Yea you. You love Daddy right?"

"Yea."

"And you would do anything to make Daddy happy, right?"

"Yea."

"Well you know you owe me some money."

"I know.........."

"Well I got a plan in which we both win."

"What is it?"

"Before you left you was bringing in a lot of money. And it was the same nigga calling everyday for you who was it?"

I hesitated. What did Daddy want me to do? If he knew it was Marcus how would he react knowing that they had previous beef.

"Some nigga named Jay, nobody special." I lied. "Why, whassup?"

"Well when you leave here, I want you to come back home. I'm gonna get you a cellphone. Yea, I said cellphone. Only you because you special. When that nigga call for you, you dress in your best shit. Matter of fact, Ima get you some new clothes. Some fly ass shit. I want you to work this nigga out, and when you put him to sleep. I want you to txt me the address, and I'll handle the rest. And you won't owe me anything, your debt will be taken care of. I'll even move Ashley to your bed and you sleep with me permanently. You be my top bitch. You wouldn't even have to do jobs anymore. Just lay around the house and do whatever the fuck you want to. Deal?"

Did this nigga just ask me to help him rob Marcus? Was this the same shit he asked Ashley to do? Did he really love me? Could I really just chill around the crib like that, worry and work free?

"Okay Daddy." He kissed me on my forehead and left.

## Chapter 22

Every morning since then Daddy had been coming to see me. It was usually around lunch and we ate together. I was really starting to like the company and attention I was getting from him. I never told him the day I was getting discharged from the hospital. I just thought I shouldn't tell him that information. He seemed like a different person outside of the house. He made me feel special in a type of way. I guess its hard to focus on one girl when you have a house full of women. Maybe he changed. Maybe he really did care about me and missed me. My room had started to look as if someone died, he brought me flowers every day, I was losing space to put them. I hadn't seen Marcus in a couple days he said that he had had some business to take care of, but every day and every morning he never skipped a beat. He texted all day and most of the times we talked until I fell asleep. He never called around lunch time, always said he didn't want to disturb me while I ate. Which was perfect because now Daddy was starting to come around.

Good morning pretty lady - Marcus

Good morning Marcus. -Gina

wyd - Marcus

nothing bored 2 death, really ready to get out of here. - Gina

Why you so in a rush? Wat u got planned wen u get out? - Marcus

To be honest, I really don't know yet. Probably take your advice and settle down and start me a little family. lol - Gina

With wat nigga! - Marcus

None of yo business nigga. Time waits for no man. Life goes on, remember nigga? How you and Mariah doing? Hows life been treating you? -Gina

Don't be tryna use my shit against me shawty. I just hope he a good nigga to you - Marcus

& why do you care? - Gina

I can't take nobody mistreating my FRIEND :) I'm still waiting on good time to catch dude slipping. I still ain't over that shit! -Marcus

Marcus leave it alone, I'm okay.! - Gina

I pray you don't plan on going back. -Marcus

I won't Marcus........ -Gina

I really didn't know what I was going to do once I got out of the hospital. Marcus said he had some things set up for me, but Daddy was starting to be so sweet to me. Everything seemed so right. I also made a promise to myself to better myself once I left here. How could I go back? How would Marcus feel if I went back? How do Mariah feel about her man being so damn generous? I needed answers. It was time for lunch, and like clockwork Daddy was here. I slid my phone inside of the dresser. I never have it out while he's around. He would trip out if he knew I had one. He walked in with a vase full of white and pink roses. They were beautiful.

"Thanks Daddy, their beautiful."

"No problem baby, let's go."

We walked down to the dining area. MMmmmmm the smell of collard greens, cornbread, fried chicken, and banana pudding. Did I just die and go to heaven?

"They treating you good here?"

"Yea, I like it here all the nurses are sweet and take that extra step to make sure I'm comfortable."

"Good you know I'll act up if they weren't treating my baby good."

Chuckling, "Yea, yea I know."

"When are you coming home baby, when are you getting out of here?"

"I'm not sure yet." I lied.

"You know you can leave against medical advice and we can leave now if you want to. You don't have to be locked up in this hospital, you can come back home to Daddy. Don't you come back home with Daddy?"

Nervously, "Yes Daddy, I do but they just started me on a new pain med and they want to run tests to see how it interacts with me." I lied.

He left it alone and we continued to eat. I don't know why I lied. I think it was because I was really unsure as to what I really wanted to do once I left here. Daddy was being so nice, but what if it was just a front. He wanted me to set up Marcus, how could I set up Marcus with all the things he's done for me..... But how can I not help Daddy? He was there when no one else was there. I would've been still on the streets if he hadn't taken me in? But I wouldn't be in this hospital either.

After lunch he walked me back to my room. I got back into bed, he kissed me on my cheek and headed toward the door. Before he walked out he turned around and said, "Don't forget about that favor," winked his eye, and proceeded out of the door.

## Chapter 23

It was check out day and as I expected I wasn't excited at all. What happens next? Where do I go from here. So many thoughts and unanswered questions.

Good Morning G- Marcus

Good morning Marcus. - Gina

Today's the big day, you ready? - Marcus

Kinda. -Gina

Kinda? You been in the hospital for months, and you telling me you unsure about if your ready to go or not? That don't sound right G, what's up? - Marcus

I mean I know that but where does my life go from here? - Gina

There's so many opportunities out here for you G, long as you don't go back to that shit. Promise me you won't go back. -Marcus

I promise......... Maybe I'll take your advice and settle down and start me a family. lol - Gina

With what nigga? - Marcus

My business nigga! How you and Mariah doing? -Gina

I just hope he a good nigga to you. I can't take nigga not treating you right. Your a good woman Gina. I'm still not over that bullshit dude did. I've been sitting around waiting on dat nigga to slip up. I got something for that ass BELIEVE THAT !!!

Marcus don't do nothing crazy, I'm okay really. -Gina

Get all your stuff together, I'll be there in a half of hour- Marcus

Kay- Gina

I climbed out of bed and started to gather all of my things. It wasn't much, but Marcus had bought me some clothes since I've been here. I threw away all of the flowers from Daddy, they were dead anyway.

"Mrs. Johnson, I see your getting ready to go."

"Yes, ma'am Mrs. Green."

"Have you found somewhere to stay yet, your friend, Marcus I think, declined the offer for the women's shelter."

"He did?"

"Yes ma'am he did. But just know if you ever need it or need help with anything you can call me." she said handing me her card

"Thanks for everything Mrs. Green," I said hugging her before she left. I sat in bed and waited on Marcus to arrive.

You ready pretty lady? -Marcus

Yea - Gina

Pulling up - Marcus

Five minutes later, Marcus was standing at the nurses station signing papers, must've been my discharge papers. After seeing him, I kinda got excited about leaving. I climbed out of bed as he motioned me to come on. He took my bags and walked them to the car. Once outside he popped the trunk and put my things in. We got in and pulled off.

"Where are we going Marcus?"

"First we gone get you up out the clothes," he said smiling

"Excuse me?"

Laughing, "I'm saying I'm about to buy you some new threads, damn pretty lady."

"Don't play with me Marcus," I said laughing and rolling my eyes.

We pulled up at a clothing store. We walked in, no one moved nor acknowledged us, other than the greeter. Different from shopping with Daddy.

"Go ahead pretty lady get whatever you like."

Huh? Go by myself I thought to myself. My feet didn't move. I turned around to see Marcus looking at me crazy.

"You aight?"

"Yea," I said walking off to the racks.

It's been so long since I've actually shopped alone, without anyone watching me. I thumbed through the tags of Levi, Polo, Tommy Hilfiger, and Nike. I had fun trying on the clothes, with Marcus shouting "Damn ma, you got a fatty in them jeans." he was so much fun. I felt more comfortable in these clothes than I did in the dresses picked out for us. I took all of my clothes to the counter. Got me a couple shoes, sandals, t shirts, jeans, and dresses. I really felt good.

"Come on," he said telling me to follow him to the back of the store.

Once I walked in there was a woman there, waiting behind a chair.

"Sit down, she's gonna do you hair and make up."

"Marcus what is all of this for?"

"Just sit down."

I sat down, it took her about 35-45 min. before she finished. After she was done she spun the chair around and the tears started to flow. It was me, Gina. Not Cassie. I missed Gina so much, and now that's who I seen when I looked in the mirror. Marcus must be really tryna make a point. He walked towards me and took me into his arms as I sobbed like a big ass baby.

"Thanks Neka, she loves it!"

We left the store and got back into the car. "Where we going Marcus?"

"Can you just sit back and ride and stop asking all them damn questions?"

"Who you talking to nigga!" I said rolling my eyes as I looked out the window.

We then pulled up to some fancy ass restaurant. I got out and we walked in. Marcus had already made reservations and we sat down and ate. I looked at the menu. None of this was the type of stuff Daddy bought for us. And this shit was high as hell. Marcus ordered a steak. I ordered a burger.

"A burger? Hell naw G,"

"I'm not use to this type of stuff."

"I know your not, that's why I'm tryna show you that there's a better life outside of that damn house."

I said nothing. "She'll have the steak and shrimp." he told the waitress.

We talked for hours. Marcus was so funny. To say he was a street nigga, he was so sweet and humble. We talked about things from our childhood and how we used to hang. It felt so good being around him again. I felt so comfortable around him, like I didn't have to pretend to be someone else. I was Gina when I was around Marcus and he accepted that. Even knowing all the stuff I've been through he was still there for me. Mariah is really lucky to have a man like Marcus. I was crazy to ever think we would be something. I didn't deserve a man like a Marcus. Who was I? A hoe, that's exactly who I was.

After we ate we climbed back into the car. This time I said nothing, just rode. This time the trip was longer. We went down roads I've never even seen before. We even went outside city limits. I looked at Marcus, I wanted to say something so bad but I knew his ass would have something smart to say so laid back and drifted to sleep. Once I felt the car come to a stop I got up and seen a beautiful building. I looked around for a sign. Melrose Rehabilitation. WTF. Why the fuck did Marcus bring me to a fucking rehab! He turned down the women's shelter to bring me here?! I turned around to curse his ass out. Before I could get the words out he put his finger over my lips.

"I know your confused and this might've been the last place you want to be but G you need this. You know I'll do anything for you and only give you the best. This is the best facility damn near in the U.S.! You'll stay here for a couple months, no more than 6 months I promise. I love you and I want you to get better, get all the demons off your back. You've been through a lot and this would really help you. Their waiting for you inside. If you don't want to be here just let me know and I'll take you where ever you want to go." He popped the trunk and got out of the car. He grabbed my things and walked into the facility. When I seen him walk out I got out of the car.

"Gina I love you and I know this would be best for you." he said as he kissed my lips.

"Their waiting on you inside."

He walked to his car and drove off. I walked inside. He was right there were a group of women and an empty chair. I helped myself to the empty chair. The director introduced herself and asked me to introduce myself to the group and share my story.

"My name is Gina Johnson. For the last year or two I've been going by the name of Cassie hoping no one would recognize me. After being kicked out of college living house to house and eventually living on the streets. I became a prostitute. A month ago I found out that the pimp that I had was the nephew of my step daddy that had been molesting me for multiple years........" The tears fell non stop.

## Chapter 24

Every day I cried. The more I cried, the more I prayed. I've never prayed until I got here. I even started reading the Bible. I can feel my faith getting stronger every day. Compared to some, yes my life was fucked up but it could've been worse, listening to the life story of these other women made me really appreciate my life more. I haven't got close to any of the women here. The shit Jasmine did really fucked my trust up. The helping hand today, could be the same hands to beat your ass tomorrow. I guess as long as I had Marcus he was the only friend I needed. Some days I thought about Daddy and other days I thought about Marcus. It's been a while since I've seen Marcus. The first couple of weeks were probation, no visitors no calls. I missed him I really did. Sometimes I think about Mariah and how lucky she was to have him. I often dream of laying in his arms and waking up to him every morning. At first I was fucked up about Marcus bringing me here but I'm really glad he did. I was learning so much. Two or three days out of the week we did intern training. So far I've followed a nurse, pharmacist, real estate agent, and a teacher. They've taught us proper etiquette, typing skills, & resumes. Even with all the training I've received I've still be confused as to what I was going to do once I left here. Before this lifestyle I had goals and dreams but I've seen so much and been through so much proving that nobody lives that perfect life we see on tv. I wanted better for myself, hell I needed better for myself. I knew if I continued walking around feeling sorry for myself I would never get out of this funk. I dropped to my knees and began to pray.

Lord, I come to you in my time of need. I surrender it all to you. Give me the guidance and strength to continue. Thank you for all the lessons, I've overcome so much and all I need is the strength to go on. Change me Lord, change my heart, and change me for the better. I thank you for everything you've done for me, everything you're doing for me, and everything you will do for me in the future. I thank you for Marcus, he has been a positive contribution to my life ever since the day he first walked back in. Lord I ask that you watch over him and continue to bless him in any way possible. In the Lord's name I pray. Amen.

I opened my eyes only to see someone standing in the doorway smiling at me. It was Marcus. I hopped off the floor and ran into his arms damn near knocking him over.

"Damn pretty lady, you happy to see me."

Feeling slightly embarrassed, "No I ain't been thinking bout you," I said blushing, playfully punching him in the chest.

"Did I just see you praying?"

"Sure did, felt good too."

"Did you pray for me?"

"Of course."

"Stop bullshittin."

"I'm not I'm serious!"

"You must really care about a nigga."

"Maybe I do, maybe I don't who's to say?"

"I knew you was feeling this super fly ass nigga."

Laughing my ass off, "Nigga boo, sit yo ass down."

"Glad to see you're not mad at me anymore. If looks could kill, I'd be a dead motherfuka the way you looked the day I brought you here."

"I was mad to be honest. I felt like you were abandoning me, just dropping me off at some strange place. I thought you didn't care. I'm so glad you did tho, I love it here. I've learned so much, shit I knew I couldn't learn if I was still in the streets. Thank you Marcus. See look at my certificate!" I said showing him my certificate of completion of phase 8.

"Oh shit nah! That's what's up, but did you really think I would do you like that G?"

"Yea. I'm so use to being tossed around and let down. I just knew it was too good to be true."

"You gotta have more faith in me pretty lady. Why is it so hard for you to let a nigga in? I mean I know life's been hard for you but haven't I proven myself enough. I've been here since I picked you up that night and I haven't left. I've been right by your side ever since. I think you should cut me some slack don't you think?"

"I guess you're right. But..."

"But what?"

"How does Mariah feel about you being 'by my side'?"

"I'm a grown ass man Gina, if I say I'm gone do it then that's what I'm gonna do. And you don't ever have to worry about Mariah," he said picking my chin up, looking me in my eyes.

"If that's what's been bothering you G, just chill. I got you remember that."

"I hear you, what brings you here today? It's been a while."

"You must really be enjoying yourself here, today is family visitation day. They got a big dinner prepared down stairs."

"Oh shit! Really?? And nigga how they let you in? You ain't family," I said laughing.

"Not yet, pretty lady." He said winking his eye.

Marcus walked out the door and headed down stairs, leaving me confused. What did he mean not yet? This nigga got more surprises than a damn magician.

## Chapter 25

"You walked into my life when I was down and out, took away my pain and gave me your smile."

Today was the big day. I had completed all ten phases and it was discharge day. I got a feeling I'm gonna miss this place. I enjoyed myself at the award ceremony. I received three awards. I had to admit it was kind of frustrating seeing the other women with their family there cheering them on and I didn't have anyone. Marcus was the only person to support me that day. He even brought Mariah. I didn't mind, I was just happy someone was there for me. She didn't wear as much makeup as she usually did when I seen her, for some reason she looked more familiar. I tried to put my finger on it but I just couldn't. I didn't ask just left it alone, maybe I was wrong. Sometimes I think to myself maybe I'm too hard on Marcus. He really did care for me and if he didn't, he had a good way of hiding it. And if he loves me why don't I just let him. Being here helped me put most of my past behind me but it's hard to let go of things that continue to haunt you. I planned on going to see my mama after I left and got on my feet to let her know how far I've come. I smiled to myself. I missed my mama. I even thought about my step daddy too even tho he did that sick ass shit, he helped me and my mama a lot along the way. I found a way in my heart to forgive him. Once I start to think about Daddy, thats when the confusion comes in. I wondered why he didn't come see me. He once said he had enough money to find anybody in America if he wanted to, so why didn't I get a visit. He came to the hospital, why didn't he come here. I wondered had he been looking for me. Hmmmm probably, probably not. I continued to pack my things and waited til it was time for discharge. I stood outside with my suitcase and things, hoping soon Marcus would arrive to come pick me up. After 30 minutes I shot him a text message.

Marcus, are you coming to get me? -Gina

No reply. That was strange. Marcus always answered my texts no matter how busy he was. I waited a lil longer, still no reply. Now I was starting to get frustrated. I pulled my phone back out and called a cab. Twenty minutes later, a cab pulled up.

"Where to my lady?"

"I'm not sure, just get me back into the city limits. I think I can handle it from there."

"Alrighty."

We pulled off. How could Marcus not come get me. I was stupid for thinking he wouldn't just drop me off and leave me. Maybe I was being too hard on him. But how could he not come, he's the one that reminded me that today was discharge day. Everything about this situation was fucked up. I checked my phone, still no reply. Once I got back into the city limits, where the fuck was I going to go. I didn't have nothing or nobody just a couple of dollars that Marcus had given me on his last visit.

The cab soon came to a stop. He stopped me in front of a bus stop. I didn't mind at least it was some place I was familiar with. I used to walk this block when I was with Daddy. I paid the cab driver and got out. I walked to a nearby diner and ordered lunch. It was much needed the drive really made me hungry. I checked my phone, no reply.

_Marcus what's going on, why won't you txt me back? Call me ASAP!! - Gin_ a

I ate my lunch and headed back to the bus stop. I sat there for at least 30 minutes.

I really can't believe you would do me like this! How the fuck could you forget to come get me? Or did you leave me on purpose? What happened to 'if I say I'm gone do it, ima do it' you full of shit Marcus! -Gina

Still no reply. It started to drizzle. I gave up texting Marcus. I threw the phone to the ground causing it to break into several pieces. I got up and started to walk. No destination in hand, just walking. After a while I regretted breaking my phone. At least I couldn't called 911 if someone tried to grab me. The rain continued to come down. My suitcase was becoming a burden on me. I eventually left it behind. I couldn't help it, the tears started to flood. How could Marcus do this to me? How could I have been so naive to think someone was going to be this nice to me. Did I become a burden on him? Was it because of Mariah? Was she tired of her man helping me? Did she think more was going on than help?

My legs started to feel as if they could give out in any second. Walking was not the problem I was used to walking, but walking wet made the walk 10x worse. The rain started to let up. I looked down to see I had messed up my brand new Nikes that Marcus had bought me. I didn't care. I continued to walk. Forty five minutes later I walked up to a familiar house. I could see lights on inside. I debated on whether I should go in or not. I looked around no one outside or insight. I could hear voices coming from inside of the house but couldn't make out the conversations. I shook the door knob. It was locked. I looked around once more and seen Daddy's car in the driveway. I raised my hand to knock...

## Chapter 26

What the hell was I doing back here? Was I really ready to step back into this lifestyle? Was I really ready to give up on Marcus? I couldn't be. I put my hand down and turned to walk away. As I reached the end of the driveway I could see a dark colored car sitting there with there lights on in my direction. I was tired of walking but I didn't want to take any chances riding around with a stranger. I turned to walk the other way. After I began walking I could hear the car start its engine and trail behind me. Who could this be? Why are they following me? The car pulled up beside me and the window rolled down.

"Get in Gina!" Marcus said firmly.

"Where have you been Marcus?!" I said damn near screaming at the top of my lungs.

"I said get in the car Gina!" I walked around the car and got in.

"What the fuck are you doing back here Gina?! Have you not learned anything?! I don't reply to you fast enough and you come back here, why?! Do my fucking efforts mean anything to you?!" He said punching the steering wheel.

I've never seen him this angry. I knew I had fucked up but I left I didn't even go in.

"Marcus I didn't even go in!"

"I know I saw you! I went by the rehab to pick you up and they told me you had already left. After I read the messages I knew you would come back here! But why G, why! Ain't no love there for you!"

"I didn't know what else to do."

"Why couldn't you just wait on me Gina," his voice started to soften up. I knew I had really struck a nerve. I was stuck in my thoughts. I didn't know what to say so I didn't say anything. I just stared out of the window. I noticed that the tint was a little lighter in this car. I hadn't seen this one before. All of Marcus' cars had been black but this one was red. Hmmmm.. That was kind of strange to me. He told me black and money green was his favorite color, so how the hell did he end up in a red car. I still didn't say anything. We drove a lil longer. We pulled up to a nice size house, Marcus blew the horn, and Mariah came outside. I opened the door to get out and let her in the front seat.

"Where you going?" Marcus said.

"I'm letting Mariah in."

"She not getting in, and why would you think to get in the back if she was?"

"Cuz that's your girl Marcus."

Mariah walked to Marcus' side of the car and he let the window down.

"Whassup Mariah?"

"Shit nigga, was finna blaze with D' nem whassup?" Before now I had never heard Mariah talk like this. She was always classy and what not. Something just don't feel right. And smoking? Hell naw I wouldn't have believed it if I didn't hear it myself.

"Nun. I just want you to tell Gina why I was so tied up today."

"From this morning or this evening?"

"Evening."

"Well G, we would've been on time if the damn car salesman would've went ahead and got us when we first got there. We waited damn near a hour before he acknowledged us. I told Marcus not to go to that bullshit ass dealership. He bought this car today. And its for you....."

If I ain't never felt like shit, I know I did now. I looked at Marcus. Tears of joy filled my eyes.

"And what else you got to tell her Mariah."

"Oh yea, I'm not Marcus' girl. I'm his cousin girl. His mama and my daddy brother and sister. I remember you when I stayed with Marcus that summer. Maybe all the makeup was the reason you couldn't recognize me. Shid me and you hung out a couple times, when you did come around. Marcus just used me to make sure you were legit. He really love you girl. I ain't never seen him, do the shit he do for you for no other female. I told this nigga he getting soft on me."

"Aye that's enough muhfuka she got the damn point! I ain't tell you to tell her all that."

Laughing her ass off, "Awww the baby shame?"

"Get the fuck on, we gone run. Ya better go get ya blunt before D nem smoke ya shit up cuz I know they ass ain't put no money on the sack!" he said laughing.

"Oh shit!" Mariah said before running back inside the house as Marcus pulled off. We drove a couple blocks in complete silence until we pulled up to Marcus house.

"Marcus, I'm sorry. I'm really sorry." I said when the car finally stopped.

"What else do I have to do to prove to you Gina?"

"I'm just scared Marcus."

"You don't have to be afraid with me, I got you I told you." he said kissing my lips. Our lips locked as our tongues started to wrestle. I pulled back.

"I'm sorry."

"I told you, just let me take care of you G."

"I will."

We got out of the car and went inside the house.

"Sit down, I got something for you."

Five minutes later, Marcus brought two plates. The food looked delicious. He sat the plates down on the table and walked away. Marcus came back with his laptop.

"This is the reason, I was tied up this morning." He turned the computer around. It was a webpage for a online college program for pharmacology.

"Pharmacist, right? I sat in orientation, filled out papers til my damn hands cramped up, and paid your tuition and books."

I couldn't help it, fuck holding back the tears started to flow.

"What's wrong G?"

"Nobody has ever done anything like this for me."

"I know because you never had a nigga like me," he said pushing his lips up against mines and putting the computer down on the table.

He started from my lips, down to my neck. It felt so good, like something I never felt. I could feel my kitty purr. I leaned back on the couch as he continued. He stopped and stood up, then picked up me and took me upstairs. He laid me down on the bed. He then started kissing me more passionately then before. I felt his manhood start to rise. I didn't wait on him to take off my shit, fuck it I did it myself. He started to move down. He kissed my breasts, then down to my stomach. He pulled a loose the button on my pants. After that his head disappeared and his wet tongue met my wetness. I let out a loud moan. I didn't even care. Sliding his tongue in and out. I now knew what Carl Marshall meant when he said good loving will make you cry. A single tear fell from my eye. After a while, I could feel him raising his head, soon after I felt him slide into me.  Another loud moan escaped from my mouth. Marcus made love to me like no other. 

## Chapter 27

I fell in love with every day of my life, since that night. The few months that went by felt more like years. Mornings always started off with breakfast, soft kisses, and foot rubs. Soon after I would log onto my online classes. I was really starting to like school again like I did once before. It wasn't so hard to get back into the hang of it with the help of the rehab. So far so good, I was actually passing all of my classes. Marcus had also managed to get me a desk job at the local police department. I typed all police reports, filed papers, and performed background checks. Now how the hell could a drug dealer get me a job at a police department, I guess money does talk. It felt so good to be free. No more having to wait on someone to pack you and four other girls up into one vehicle. He took me to get my driver's license, the day after I got out of rehab and I drove myself around. After telling Marcus I had broken the phone he had given me he was pretty upset, but I soon bought another one once I got my first check.

Whassup girl? -Mariah

Nothing girl finishing up at work, whassup?- Gina

You wanna go out tonight?- Mariah

Ummm.. Sure I can where we going?-Gina

The club on the corner of 4th and Montgomery- Mariah

K. Txt me later, I'll be ready.-Gina

_Kay I'll come pick you up- Mariah_

Even though I said I was done with females over the months me and Mariah got close. It was probably the fact that she was Marcus' cousin that made me more comfortable. She spent majority of the time at our house. I loved when she was around she was so bubbly and full of energy. That bitch could definitely smoke her ass off. I wasn't down, most times I would grab my school books and go into another room and study. I loved the woman that Marcus and rehab made me into. I could feel myself growing and starting to progress more. Its been years since I've been out. I haven't been to a club since my college days. I was kinda looking forward to tonight. I had a bad ass dress that showed off my thick ass legs. I wondered if Marcus was down to ride.

Hey baby. -Gina

Hey pretty lady, whassup?- Marcus

Mariah wants me to go out with her tonight....-Gina

To the club?-Marcus

Yea.-Gina

That's cool, bet not be giving no other nigga my loving *kissy face*- Marcus

Lol, I won't baby. You coming?-Gina

Naw, I got some business to catch up on. Yall have fun. I love you - Marcus

I love you too baby, I'll talk to you later.-Gina

The hours at work dragged on. I finished my work early and asked if I could go home. I got into my car and road around a little before going home. I ended up stopping by a near shoe store. I wanted the perfect pumps to match my dress. I tried on several shoes. I was just couldn't find that perfect pair. The bell at the door rang, notifying the staff that a customer was either coming in or leaving out. I picked my head up to see the customers. Soon after I seen the customers I ducked my head down and ran into the restroom. It was Daddy and Ashley. My heart was beating out of my chest. I locked the door and stood on top of the toilet. I had not seen Daddy since the visit at the hospital after he asked me to set up Marcus. I just couldn't face him and didn't want to run into him no time soon. I felt I was in a good place in my life right now and I just didn't need the extras. I sat in the restroom for a good 35 minutes. My legs felt as if they were about to give out. I got off of the toilet and crept to the door and peeked out. They were gone. Thank God. I grabbed the last pair of shoes I tried on, paid for them and ran out of the door. I didn't care if they weren't perfect I had to get out of there. I made no more stops and went straight home. Marcus was not home when I got there. I was greeted by Roxie and Kilo. I fed them and went into the kitchen to cook dinner for Marcus. He usually did most of the cooking, but at any chance that I had to do it for him, I did. After the food was ready I sat on the couch and watched Waiting to Exhale, to pass time until it was time to go out. I ended up falling asleep but was awakened by a knock at the door.

"Whaaassuuuuuuup girl!"

It was Mariah. She was dressed in a Nike body suit with bags in her hand.

"What the hell you in here doing with all these damn lights off?"

"I was sleep."

"You're still going out right?"

"Yea, I just dosed off. What time is it?"

"11:31. Where cuzzo?"

"I'm not sure. He said he had some business to take care of so you know how that goes."

"Yea. I understand."

I got up from the couch and headed to the room as Mariah headed to the kitchen and fixed her a plate. I laid my clothes across the bed, laying my shoes up against my outfit. It was a perfect match. I headed into the shower. After seeing my shoes it took me back to the incident that happened earlier. What would have happened if they seen me? Would they even notice me, now that I looked more like I did before I went to Daddy's house? What would Daddy have to say to me? Should I tell Marcus? What would he say? Ugh. I told myself to relax as I finished my shower. I stepped out in my towel and lotion my body down. Soon after I applied my makeup and fixed my hair into a big messy bun. My dressed fit perfectly and my shoes really brought out the color.

"Dammmmmmn girl you look good!"

"Thanks, bitch you do too!"

"Aight nah don't get in no trouble tonight" Mariah said laughing.

We're headed out baby. Love you! If you get done, come out. -Gina

We headed out the door. We pulled up at the club. The crowd was thick and the line was backed up. Luckily, Mariah used to fuck one of the bouncers at the door and we walked right on past the line and into the club. The sounds of Set It Off by Boosie blared through the speakers throughout the club. The crowd was crunk. I could barely hear the music over the crowd singing along. I joined into! They call me bad azz and I'll punish you! Me and Mariah screamed with the crowd.

"Let's go get a drink." We headed to the bar, but instead of Mariah ordering we stood next to the bar. No more than two minutes later some guy walked up and offered to buy us a drink. We got our drinks and headed back to the dance floor. After a while I didn't see Mariah anymore. I continued to dance and sing along. "If there's a question of my heart, you've got it. It don't belong to anyone but you"

"This my shit!" I screamed into the crowd before I started slow dancing. I didn't mind dancing alone. I turned and spotted Mariah standing in the corner talking to some dude with a LA Dodgers snap back. I continued to dance. By the middle of the song I felt someone start to dance with me. I guess Marcus decided to come after all. Our bodies grinded to the lyrics as one. He grabbed my waist and kept up with my every move. He kissed my neck passionately. Soon after a furious Mariah walked toward me and grabbed my arm.

"Whassup!"

"Bitch them drinks getting to you lets go home!"

I turned around and it wasn't Marcus. It was Daddy. He started to walk off and turned around blowing a kiss, smiling. My heart dropped. Mariah escorted me out of the club and we got into the car.

"Oh my God, Mariah I swear I didn't know. I thought it was Marcus!"

"Damn G you fucking up big time. Marcus had just walked in right before the song ended."

"Did he see me?"

"Hell yea, and he walked right back out!" I dropped my head. I should've never drunk so many of those drinks. I should've turned around. I just knew it was Marcus. Did Daddy know who I was? We pulled up at the house. Marcus' car was parked outside and all of the lights were out. Maybe he was sleep. I got out of the car. I knew it was time to face the music. FUCK! I unlocked the door and sat my purse down on the table near the door. Before I knew it I felt a hard smack against my face that sent me falling to the floor.

## Chapter 28

I didn't even see it coming. Nor did I see the others that followed. I balled up on the floor as he continued ranting and raging.

"I give you all of this and you still want to fuck with that busta ass nigga! You think I'm fucking stupid! You think you gone play me?"

"Marcus stop! I swear I didn't know! I swear!"

"You think I'm gone believe that bullshit! You couldn't wait to get out of my eyesight and go back to that nigga! You back fucking with that nigga? You wanna be back with that nigga? Give me your fucking phone!"

I gave him the phone. I could see the screen light up in the darkness showing the angriness in his face. Something was off. Something didn't seem right. His facial expression was angry but empty, almost seeming to appear numb. I'd never seen Marcus this way. He threw the phone back at me and then walked away. I soon got up and ran upstairs into the room. As I passed the kitchen, that's when I seen it. Before he slammed the door I could see two white lines of a powdery substance on the table. Marcus was on drugs! That explained the facial expression on his face. I continued upstairs and locked the door behind me. I walked into the bathroom and looked at my face. It wasn't too bad, a swollen lip and a busted nose. I had worse. I cleaned up my face and got into the shower. I heard the door open. I quickly pulled back the curtain, only to find Marcus getting out of his clothes. He joined me in the shower. We never spoke a word. He stood behind me, grabbed my neck and started to kiss me passionately. He then got out of the shower. Once I got out of the bathroom, Marcus was knocked out lying face down in bed, still in his towel. I didn't disturb him, instead I walked downstairs and slept on the couch.

Morning came, nothing like other mornings no foot rubs, no breakfast, no Marcus. I really don't know how I felt about last night. Maybe I deserved it, why didn't I just turn around. I know it hurt his pride to see me dancing with Daddy out of all people, but I really didn't know. Maybe it was the drugs. I've never known Marcus to be on drugs. Ever since I've been here after I've got out of rehab I've never even seen drugs around the house up until last night. His behavior really shocked me. I would've never guessed that Marcus would hit me. Really made me wonder did he hit Ashley? Is that the reason she turned on him to set him up? Everything was starting to become so confusing. I scrambled an egg and prepared to get ready for work.

Hey baby-Marcus

Hi-Gina

Sorry bout breakfast, had some business to handle-Marcus

Okay-Gina

You know I love you Gina, just been a lot going on, too much to talk about right now, but I'll make it up to you I promise.-Marcus

I love you too-Gina

I got to go, have a good day at work- Marcus

Everything okay?-Mariah

Yea. I guess so.-Gina

He was really upset, called me and cursed me out saying that I took you out to be with that nigga and everything-Mariah

Really?-Gina

I promise you I didn't know Mariah- Gina

I believe you. Once he finally calmed down, he started telling me how much he loved you and how much he felt betrayed, he even said he was gone kill dat nigga -Mariah

But it really wasn't like that Riah-Gina

I know baby girl, just keep ya head up-Mariah

Did he tell you wat happened?-Mariah

No, what happened?-Gina

I'll wait for him to tell you, but that's probably why he been tripping out so much lately. Love you G-Mariah

Love you too-Gina

I thought about that all day. What could possibly be going on? I didn't think it was okay to ask, so I'll just wait until he told me. After work, I went straight home. I did this every day since that night. I didn't go anywhere but work and home. I just wanted to please my man and get things back on track. Everything started to fall back in place, but I still felt as if something was wrong or missing. It was evident that Marcus was really on drugs. I've seen him on several other occasions. He tries to be so secretive about it. Most times he lock himself in the bathroom for a while, but after he leaves there would be a small amount of residue left. I didn't question him about it afraid that he would blow up. I would simply put on some clothes and go to Mariah's house til I think his high has gone down. I just wanted to avoid all altercations.

I knocked on the door, Mariah answered.

"Hey girl"

"Whassup?"

"Nothing just wanted to get out of the house."

"Ain't nothing wrong with that. Where Marcus?"

"Girl at home probably sleep." I never told Mariah about the drugs. I just thought it would be best not to. He was such a private person I knew he wouldn't appreciate me telling his business, so I kept my mouth closed. We ended up watching Playas Club and I ended up falling asleep. I awoke to several missed calls and messages from Marcus.

Hey baby-Marcus

Baby?-Marcus

Where you?-Marcus

What you doing G?-Marcus

Where the fuck are you it's 2 in the morning?-Marcus

So I guess you back fucking with that nigga huh?-Marcus

I just knew this would be a problem. I grabbed my keys and hurried out the door. I didn't wake up Mariah, who had seemed to have passed out right after I did. I locked the door behind me and got into my car. I did 80 mph, racing home to Marcus. I just didn't want any problems but from the look of my text messages I could tell trouble would probably be waiting on me.  I pulled up in the drive way. I could see a dim light coming from inside the living room. I put my key inside the door, and for some reason it didn't open. I looked down to make sure it was the right key, and it was but it didn't open the door. Did Marcus really change the locks on me? I knocked on the door and waited for Marcus to open the door. When he did, he just walked away and returned to the chair that he must've been sitting in waiting on me. On the table I could see that there was a line of dope untouched but residue that more was once there.

"Marcus, you changed the locks on the door?"

"You damn right! You think you gone walk in and out of my shit freely and you still fucking off?!" he said angrily, spit coming out of his mouth.

"Marcus, I was at Mariah's house! I swear!"

"Fuck that I called Mariah and she ain't answer, I guess she helping you go back to that nigga!"

"Marcus are you serious?!"

"Bitch do I sound serious?" Marcus had never called me out of my name.

"Bitch? Oh so I'm a bitch Marcus?"

"Oh you can't fucking hear, bitch! I made yo ass what you are today if you wanna go back to them streets bitch you can go!"

I couldn't believe Marcus would ever talk to me this way or even throw it back in my face what he has done for me. I grabbed my purse and stood to leave. There was no way I was staying here.

"Where the fuck you think you going?"

"Fuck you Marcus!"

"Fuck me bitch? After all I done for you and its fuck me?" he said grabbing my neck, choking me.

"Let me go! Let me go!"

"Ain't got such a big mouth now huh, bitch"

"Let me go Marcus!" I could feel myself going in and out of consciousness. I began scratching him in his face. He wouldn't let up. I finally found his eyes and began to dig as hard as I could. He finally let me go. I ran out of the house and got into my car.

## Chapter 29

I began to drive. No destination in mind, just drive. I really didn't have anywhere to go. I drove until I reached a hotel. I didn't get out, I just sat there and thought about my life. I made all of this progress and my life was still fucked up. I sat in my car and cried for what seemed like hours, until there was a knock on my window. I looked up and to my surprise it was Daddy. I knew I recognized his car in the parking lot. Was this nigga following me? I guess he was right, it wasn't nobody that he couldn't find if he wanted to.. Ugh, this was not the time or place. I let the window down.

"Long time, no see" I didn't say anything.

"What's wrong baby girl, why you crying?"

I still said nothing.

"What, you just gonna ignore me? What did I do to you? You can talk to me, I'm not your enemy. What's wrong? Open the door."

For some reason unknown, I clicked the button on the door, unlocking the doors. He walked to the other side of the car and got in.

"Marcus Lady, huh?" he asked must've read the tag on my car.

"Not ole Marcus Brown from Highland Avenue." I looked up at Daddy.

"Awwww hell naw, I guess history done repeated itself." He laughed.

"What do you want?" I asked.

"Nothing just wanted my old friend back. It's been a while. As long as you been gone from the house I thought you would've been living the good life. And then I find you like this, crying your eyes out in a hotel parking lot. I must admit this is a nice as car, you must be doing something right. I really miss you Cassie, even the girls miss you especially Jasmine. Why don't you come back to the house? That nigga ain't doing you right. You had a home when you were there, back at the house. Just one night. You don't have to stay if you don't want to but just stay tonight. It'll beat you sleeping in this car or this raggedy ass hotel. You can even sleep in my bed, and in the morning if you don't feel like that's where you belong your free to go baby girl. I promise. I'll even drive you back to your car. I can't have you pulling up to the house in this hot ass car. The girls would go crazy!"

"Really?"

"Yes. Really." He said kissing my forehead.

I didn't know what made me go with Daddy. I guess I just wanted comfort. Me and Marcus had so much going on right now. And he said I could leave in the morning if I wanted to. So I didn't see much harm. I got out of my car, leaving my purse and cellphone and got into the car with Daddy.

We arrived at the house. No light lit up in the house. It was still so very late in the morning I didn't expect anyone to be woke anyway. Everything looked the same as if I never left or he expected me to come back. I walked passed the rooms and could see the girls sleeping. I really wanted to go inside the room with Jasmine to talk with her. I didn't know the reason. Maybe to get some closure and get my friend back. I continued to walk. We arrived to Daddy's room. I could see a body in the bed, had to be Ashley. I started to feel uneasy. Daddy walked over to the bed and started to shake her.

"Wake up. Ash, get up." She finally awakened and sleepily looked around the room. Our eyes locked.

"This bitch again?"

"Don't start Ashley. Cassie gone sleep in here tonight."

She didn't say a word, just got up and walked out of the room. I stripped down to my undershirt and got into the bed. It felt like Heaven. I think I fell asleep as soon as my head hit the pillow. Soon after I heard the door open. I didn't move maybe it was Daddy going to the bathroom. I quickly jumped up. Feeling that feeling again, as if someone was standing over me, and it was. It was Ashley.

"I told you this shit wasn't over with, bitch you stole from me and thought you was gone get away with it. Riding around living the good life with this nigga and my fucking money!" Daddy said quickly grabbing my neck pushing me back down in the bed. That's when I seen the blade in Ashley's hand. She raised it and started to stab me repeatedly. I was defenseless. Soon, my eyes closed and never opened again. 

## Chapter 30 [MARCUS]

I woke up this morning on the couch. I walked upstairs to find G. She wasn't there. I walked back down to the kitchen, she wasn't there either. I poured a glass of orange juice, drinking the last out of the jug. I opened the trash and threw the jug away and seen the packs the new locks came in. Then I thought about events of yesterday and last night. How could she have come back if I changed the locks? Maybe she was at Mariah's.

G?- Marcus

I got no reply.

Whassup cuzzo, you seen G?-Marcus

Nope, she was here last night. But was gone when I woke up I thought she was there.-Mariah

She was, we kinda got into it last night and she left. I haven't seen her this morning.-Marcus

Did you call the job?-Mariah

Bout to do that right now-Marcus

I felt like shit. I guess she wasn't lying she was at Mariah's house last night. I gotta make it up to my baby. Let her know how wrong I was and that I was sorry. I called the Police Department and asked if Gina had come to work this morning. The lady on the other end of the phone said that she hadn't heard from Gina and that they had been calling because she didn't show up for her shift this morning. Fuck! Where could my baby be? Maybe she was still mad at me and was just ignoring me. I decided to text her again.

Hey baby, I know things have been bumpy with us lately. It's just so much that has been going on lately. I'm so sorry about last night. Mariah told me you were at her house. I should've believed you. You are a good woman Gina. I guess it was just my insecurities I got from the previous women I've been with that had me tripping on you. Ever since that night I picked you up. I knew I wanted to fall in love with you. Tbh I've been loving you since we were kids on Highland Ave. Just never said anything. You were so beautiful and smart. I knew you wouldn't want a nigga like me because I didn't have shit back then, but even then I was shallow for even thinking like that. You really held a nigga down. Baby just come back home. I'll get you a extra key made today. I need you here with me. Last week my mama passed from a heart attack. I couldn't take it G, I started tripping out. That's why I haven't been spending much time at home lately. I didn't want you to see me like this. I even started doing drugs to take my mind off of everything. You probably already know that tho. I've been trying to get everything ready for the funeral, it's today so baby please come home. I need you to be there with me. Again I love you Gina, and I'm so sorry for everything. Marcus

Still there was no reply. That was really strange. I walked around the house until I found her computer, to see if she had logged into her classes. There was an assignment that was due this morning that G didn't submit. Shit was starting to get scary. G always did her work. She turned in her assignments a day before they were due so for her to submit her work something had to be wrong. I picked up the folder that was sitting under the computer. A couple sheets of school work. A couple sheets of her doodling with me and her name on it. Gina loves Marcus. Marcus and Gina forever. Mrs. Brown. There were also other names. MJ. Faith Shantea Brown. I was confused. A piece of loose paper fell from the folder. I picked it up and flipped it over. My mouth dropped. I had to sit down. It was an ultrasound. Gina was pregnant. She never told me. I got to find my baby!

My thoughts were interrupted by a phone call. I quickly grabbed my phone thinking it would be Gina. It was Mariah. Her voice was so distraught I could barely hear what she was saying.

"Call down Mariah, whats up?"

"Turn on your TV!" she said before hanging up.

I walked downstairs and turned on the tv. Turning the channel to the news. The headline read: Prostitute Found Slain. A tear dropped.

They gave a description of the victim. It was Gina. How the fuck did I let this happen to her. I promised to keep her safe and to protect her. I failed her. I failed my unborn child. Not only did I lose my mama, I lost my girl and my child. This was too much for one nigga. I got into my car, grabbed the box out of the glove box. I opened it, and stared at the 24K Rose Gold diamond ring. I had bought the ring 2 weeks ago and planned on asking Gina to marry me. The unexpected death of my mama, pushed time back. I threw the ring and began to punch the steering wheel out of rage. I cried and cried. I couldn't take it no longer, I pulled the gun from under the seat, put a bullet in the chamber and pulled the trigger til I blew my brains out.

###

## Connect with Raven Gabrielle

I really appreciate you reading my book! Here are my social media coordinates:

Friend me on Facebook:

Facebook.com/LadiGab2011

Follow me on Twitter:

Twitter.com/SpeakingofGabby

Favorite my Smashwords author page:

Smashwords.com/profile/view/ravengabrielle

Follow me on Instagram:

Instagram.com/SpeakingofGabby_

Follow me on Wattpad:

Wattpad.com/user/RavenGabrielle
