 
 Copyright 2016 by The Canberra Writing Group - All rights reserved.

This document is geared towards providing exact and reliable information in regards to the topic and issue covered. The publication is sold with the idea that the publisher is not required to render accounting, officially permitted, or otherwise, qualified services. If advice is necessary, legal or professional, a practiced individual in the profession should be ordered.

\- From a Declaration of Principles which was accepted and approved equally by a Committee of the American Bar Association and a Committee of Publishers and Associations.

In no way is it legal to reproduce, duplicate, or transmit any part of this document in either electronic means or in printed format. Recording of this publication is strictly prohibited and any storage of this document is not allowed unless with written permission from the publisher. All rights reserved.

The information provided herein is stated to be truthful and consistent, in that any liability, in terms of inattention or otherwise, by any usage or abuse of any policies, processes, or directions contained within is the solitary and utter responsibility of the recipient reader. Under no circumstances will any legal responsibility or blame be held against the publisher for any reparation, damages, or monetary loss due to the information herein, either directly or indirectly.

Respective authors own all copyrights not held by the publisher.

The information herein is offered for informational purposes solely, and is universal as so. The presentation of the information is without contract or any type of guarantee assurance.

The trademarks that are used are without any consent, and the publication of the trademark is without permission or backing by the trademark owner. All trademarks and brands within this book are for clarifying purposes only and are the owned by the owners themselves, not affiliated with this document.

Protector

By Cole Bates

Copyright © 2016

Table of Contents

Chapter One

Chapter Two

Chapter Three

Chapter Four

Chapter Five

Chapter Six

Chapter Seven

Chapter Eight

Chapter Nine

# CHAPTER ONE

CHET

"Hey, sweetheart can I get another one of these?" I gestured at my empty glass.

"Of course," the little brunette waitress said with a smile. She looked at the recruiter sitting across from me and said, "Can I get something else for you too, sir?"

The man looked as uncomfortable in a three-piece suit as I would be in ballet tights. You have to love these old jocks that can't play football any longer so they cling to it by their fingernails with jobs that keep them in the loop. This guy tells me he played for the Miami Dolphins in his heyday. That was way before my time so I'll take his word for it.

"No thank you," he said as he pulled at his tie. Once she was gone he pasted on that fake smile that he probably practices at home in front of the mirror and said,

"Chet listen, they've authorized me to offer you this contract..."

"It's a lot less than what everyone else is offering."

He raised an eyebrow. "You've been offered a lot more than one point five?"

The waitress sat my drink down in front of me. I winked at her and reveled in the blush that ran up her neck and into her cheeks before picking it up and drinking half of it. After I sat it down I said, "Look, Mike, I've been offered three contracts. Yours is the lowest so far...but, I'd really like to live in Miami. It's one of my target towns. So I'm not counting you out yet."

He cleared his throat. "Good, but you do know the offer has an expiration. We have to get these spots filled..."

"And you know that I'm the best prospect in the country right now. I'd be willing to bet your bosses have authorized you to do whatever it takes to make sure that I take this contract. I'd be willing to bet you're authorized to offer me a lot more money than you are, Mike. What you're trying to do here is go back to Miami with the top quarterback in the nation and with a contract that saves them so much money that they just might line the pocket of that cheap suit you're wearing with a cash bonus because of it, am I right?" I drank the rest of my drink and watched squirm. He expected to walk in here and meet a naïve twenty-three-year-old who would cum in his pants at the mention of one point five million dollars. When he finally found his voice and started to speak my phone rang. I smiled, it was perfect timing. I didn't even acknowledge what he was saying. I pulled out the phone and saw that it was my step-brother, Kenny. I put the phone to my ear and said, "Hey Bud, what's up?"

"Mom's making your favorite tonight, prime rib and king crab legs. She wants to know what time you'll be home for dinner." I had to force the smile to stay on my face for Mike's benefit. I had zero desire for a family dinner tonight. I was horny as hell and aching for a release. I wasn't going to get that with my step-mother, father, and step-brother.

"Do me a favor Kenny, tell her I said thanks but I've got some things I have to take care of tonight. I have another meeting scheduled with the guy from Colorado. He wants to take me Spago for dinner and we'll probably hit the clubs after that."

"Oh damn, she's going to be disappointed."

"Give her my love," Kenny laughed as soon as that came out of my mouth. My step-mother is okay, but I can take her or leave her. I learned how to manipulate her early on though...as I did most women, and Kenny knew it.

"This conversation is for someone else's benefit, isn't it?" he said. "Are you playing that recruiter for more money? I thought Miami was your first choice? That's why Mom was so excited..."

"Yep, that's right, Colorado is looking really good. I have to run now."

"Be careful Chet, you don't want to end up with nothing because you got too greedy."

"That's right, tell her not to wait up. I'll talk to you soon."

"Chet remember..." I disconnected the call. Kenny would forgive me, he always does.

I looked back at Mike and he was now twisting his tie around his finger. I wondered if he might strangle himself right here at the table. "Chet, let me go back to my bosses and find out what I can offer you before you accept anything, okay?"

I stood up without bothering to put any money on the table. Recruiters paying for my food and drink was becoming the norm. I'd have to retrain myself to pay my own bills once I accepted an offer, but then I'd be making so much cash I could hire some little dude to follow me around and do that too. "I'll call you, Mike. Thanks for the drinks."

He jumped to his feet which was no small task since he had to be pushing sixty and he was about fifty pounds overweight. "Chet I'm going to go out on a limb here and even put my job in jeopardy. I'm going to offer you one point nine million. I'm absolutely certain I can get them to agree with that."

I wanted to laugh. Put his job on the line my ass. If he's offering me one point nine that means they already told him to go as high as two million. "We're getting closer," I told him. I winked and said, "I'll call you." I left him standing there looking like he might have a stroke and when I got outside I took out my phone again as I waved a cab over. I pressed in Becky's number. As I slid into the cab that stopped she answered,

"There you are baby. I've called three times."

"Hang on." I covered the mouthpiece and told the driver, "The Omni on Grand Avenue." He nodded and we took off. Putting the phone back to my ear I said, "I'm working on million dollar deals here Becky. I can't stop in the middle of that to call my jealous fucking girlfriend."

"I'm sorry baby," she whined. God, I'd gotten to where I hated the sound of it. "I just miss you. I haven't seen you in two days. Your step-mom invited me for dinner tonight. I'm so excited to see you."

"Yeah well, I won't be there."

"What?" Now it was screechy. Fuck.

"I have another meeting. I'll be late so have dinner with the Fam Bam if you want, but like I said, I won't be there."

She sighed. She wanted to be a part of that NFL contract, and badly. Since we were freshmen in college Becky had set her sights on being my wife someday. As far as I know I've never done anything to encourage it, but I hadn't discouraged it either. It looked good when I needed some big-breasted blonde on my arm to have one at the ready. Any other chick would have probably left by now. Becky stays because she smells that money so I don't exactly feel bad about the way I treat her. "Okay baby, can I wait at the apartment?" I live in the pool house of my parent's place. She insists on calling it the apartment. Not really giving a fuck I said,

"Sure, just don't call me every fucking ten minutes all night long. This is business and I'll be there when I get there." Which I didn't plan on being until the sun came back up. She can sleep in my bed all she wants.

"Okay baby, good luck. I love you."

"Mm hmm, I'll see you later." I hung up just as the taxi pulled up in front of the Omni. I tossed the guy a twenty and went inside. This hotel was nice and not cheap at all. But I'll be damned if I'm going to risk getting photographed going into some sleazy roach motel in West Hollywood. I put in on the credit card and if I need help paying it at the end of the month I spend a day kissing up to Suzie, my step-mother and it's all good. I'd already reserved the room. I picked up my key at the desk and went upstairs. As soon as I got there I stripped out of my clothes and called the agency, "It's Tyler. I'm at the Omni in room 222. Is he available?" "He" is the newest and hottest stud on the website "Man Eater." I haven't had him yet but I'd already called earlier in the day and told Starla the woman that runs the agency to reserve him for me.

"Of course Tyler, I told you he would be. He's excited to meet you."

I'll bet. I'm sure they talk amongst themselves and I'd be willing to bet there were a few left crying tonight because I didn't choose them. I'd taken one look at this one's pic earlier and I had to beat my meat in the middle of the day. I couldn't wait to get my hands on him. "Great, half an hour?"

"You got it."

I hung up and got in the shower. My cock was already on the rise just thinking about the little twink, I couldn't wait.

# CHAPTER TWO

CHET

I'm not gay, I just have needs that I haven't been able to satisfy with women. When I was a senior in high school my best friend and I got drunk one night and watched a porno flick. One thing led to another and before you know it, he was sucking my cock. We spent that whole night messing around and he even let me fuck him. It was phenomenal. I lost my best friend because neither of us could look the other in the eye after that, but to tell the truth that one night of sex was worth it. I still wanted to date women and someday I'll probably marry some chick and have some kids. It's just sex, but damned good sex.

My girlfriend Becky is okay with only having sex once a week or so. I tell her it's about the muscle builder I use, I told her my cock doesn't get as hard as it used to. That's partly true. I honestly couldn't get it up the way I used to be able to...unless I was totally fantasizing that she was a man. She won't let me do her in the ass, but she will get on her hands and knees and face away from me sometimes. That's when I can pretend she's a hot little twink. I even talked her into cutting her hair short by telling her I thought it would give her a more sophisticated look. It's not as good as being with a guy though so for a while I would hit the gay bars in West Hollywood and satisfy my cravings in the bathroom getting a hand job or a blowjob. That only worked for a while until I needed more and there was also the fact that I was getting noticed by the NFL and I was a really popular college quarterback so there was always the chance that I'd be recognized and that would fuck up my career. So, I found a site online for male "escorts" and I've been using them ever since.

I stood in front of the mirror and looked at myself as I dried off. I know it's considered vain and wrong to find yourself physically appealing, but what can I say, I'm hot. I'm six foot four, well-muscled with wide shoulders and splashes of colorful ink that decorated my muscular biceps. I had a ring in my left nipple that I told Becky I got for her but the truth is not only do I like how it looks, I fucking love how it feels when someone sucks hard on it. She has no idea how to do it, but I'm finding out that these gay escorts sure as hell do. My green eyes looked back at me as I anticipated the arrival of my evening entertainment. I wondered if they should look guilty or ashamed, but they didn't. They didn't because I didn't feel guilty and as long as no one knew about my trysts, I didn't have to be ashamed.

I finished drying off and wrapped a towel around my waist just about the time that the knock came at the door. I walked over and opened it and my cock jumped as soon as I saw him. He looked even better than in his picture. He's about a foot shorter than me with dark hair that comes down just a little past his ears. He was wearing jeans and a sweatshirt but I could tell he was slim, the way I liked them.

"Hey, come on in. I'm Tyler." Tyler was the name I used to keep from giving them my real name. The chick that runs my credit card is the only one that knows my real name but she wants the money to keep coming in so she's not going to say anything.

The man/boy smiled and said, "Hi Tyler, I'm Kyle." I shut the door behind him and said,

"You want a drink?"

He ran his dark eyes from my face down to my toes slowly and seductively and before he could answer the question, I was on him. I pulled him into me and he rose up on his toes and licked my bottom lip. I opened my mouth and sucked his tongue into it. Damn he could kiss. It was intense, we bit and sucked on each other's lips and then he sucked his way down to my neck and bit and sucked me there until I moaned. Without any preamble other than the kiss I reached down and took the bulge in the front of his jeans in my hand. He moaned into my flesh as I ran my hand up and down his jean clad erection a few times. When I couldn't stand it any longer I used one hand to unbutton them and I shoved the other one down into his pants. He wasn't wearing underwear and in a second I had that hot, pulsing cock in my hand. He wasn't thick, but he was long and I could already imagine how it was going to feel in my ass.

I was undressing him as we walked over toward the bed. I had his shirt off and my hands all over that smooth, white skin. When the backs of my knees hit the bed he dropped down to his and in a flash he set my aching cock free. I heard him moan and then suddenly that hot tongue was on me, licking the shaft from tip to base and back again. My legs were shaking by the time I felt his mouth on my balls and I let out a long, deep groan. I pulled off my shirt and sat down on the bed. He pulled off my shoes and my jeans and I just watched in anticipation of what he'd do next. As soon as I was stripped he put his hands on my chest and ran his palms across my defined pecs before dipping his head down and sucking my cock into his mouth. Jesus it felt good. My cock is about eight inches long and thick, he was taking the whole thing and I could feel the tip rest against the back of his throat before he let it slide out slowly between his thick lips and then he'd suck it in again.

I leaned back on my arms and spread my legs wider to give him full access. He was definitely the best cock sucker I'd ever had. He'd lick and suck and then he'd hold it in his hand and stroke it while he licked my balls and sucked each one gently into his mouth making me moan like crazy. When I was on the verge of coming he let go of me and kissed his way up my abdomen, across my chest and up to my mouth. The smell and the taste of my on his face and lips was like an aphrodisiac. I grabbed him and flipped him over on his back and leaned down and sucked one of his nipples into my mouth. I sucked it hard and then bit down on it, enjoying the surprised sound that came from his lips. Then I nibbled my way down to the top of his pants and finally pulled them off and got a look at that sexy cock. It was about the same length as mine but more slender. He didn't have a patch of hair anywhere on his body and as I sucked that cock into my mouth I let my hands explore his smooth contours.

I spent some time just licking and sucking the head of it. He'd flex his hips each time, trying to get me to take more into my mouth but I wanted to make him crazy for it. I closed my lips around the tip and held them there while I jerked him and when I felt his balls harden and his dick swell I stopped and reveled in the whimper he let out. I reached over and picked up the condom I'd lain on top of the nightstand. He watched as I opened it and then he smiled as I rolled it onto his throbbing dick. I got up where I could reach his face and kissed him on the lips before reaching for the lube. I squirted out a handful and kept my eyes on his face as I rubbed the warm, sticky liquid between my hands and fingers. He licked his lips as he watched me and then his whole body convulsed as I used my hands to wet every surface of his condom-covered cock.

"I want that big cock in my ass," I whispered. He grinned again as I got up and bent over the bed. He stood up behind me and I heard the lube squirt and then felt his slick fingers probing my ass. He inserted one and then two fingers, moving them in and out slowly while using the other hand to work my dick up and down. I felt like I could come just like that but then I felt him pull his fingers out and felt the head of his cock pressing into me. I pushed back with my hips and he slid the tip inside of me. My muscles stretched open for him and he slid himself in a little deeper. "Fuck me, now!" He followed orders well. Before the words were out of my mouth I felt his hands move up to my hips and he shoved himself all the way inside of me. I cried out while he began pounding in and out of me. Each time he'd hit bottom I felt something explode inside of my head. I reached back and took hold of his right hand and brought it down to my cock. He wrapped his fingers around it and soon fell into a rhythm where each thrust matched a jerk of my cock. He applied just the right amount of pressure and I felt like I was in fucking heaven. I was panting and moaning and trying to catch my breath. I didn't want to come just yet though so I reached down and pulled his hand off my cock and moved my hips until I felt his dick pop out of my ass. Then I rolled over onto my back and pulled my legs up and hooked them over my arms. He didn't waste time before shoving that sweet cock back up inside of me. Then I watched in ecstasy as he brought his fingers up to his sexy lips and got them wet before reaching down and once again taking my hard pole in his hand. He pounded my ass and jerked me off and within a few short minutes he was panting out that he was going to come. I moved my hips and he pounded harder and I watched the ecstasy on his face as he reached his peak.

He slowed down on his stroking for a few seconds but once he recovered he started jerking me again. His dick was softening but still in my ass and every one of my senses was peaked and alive as my body tensed up and I felt the orgasm take hold.

"Mm...I'm coming Kyle," I said in a breathless and barely recognizable voice. He bent forward and let his cock fall out of my ass as he kissed my lips and said,

"Come for me Tyler."

I exploded from the inside out. I'd never felt anything like the intensity of that orgasm. He didn't let go of me until he'd milk out every drop and then when he had he leaned down and licked me clean. It was fucking erotic.

When he could breathe again he peeled off the rubber and tossed it into the garbage can. Then he looked at me with those sexy dark eyes and said, "Starla said you might want me to stay?"

I was able to tell myself that I wasn't gay as long as I fucked them and kicked them out. With Kyle for some reason, I was willing to be labeled temporarily for the chance to spend the night with him lying in the bed next to me. I pulled him down and got comfortable in the bed and wrapped my arms around him. We lay there silently for a while and he said,

"I'm sleepy now. Damn that was good"

I smiled and kissed the side of his face. "Yeah, it was. Stay with me for a while."

"Sure, but that'll be more."

"I don't give a fuck," I told him. I already had him wrapped up next to me with my heavy arms holding him in place. If I wanted to I could hold him prisoner. I woke up hours later with our arms and legs tangled up and another raging hard on. He was still asleep but I didn't care. I kissed his lips and ground my hard cock into him. We both had wood and I whispered to him, "Turn around." Instead of turning to face away from me he turned so we were head to feet and before I knew it he had sucked my cock into his mouth. I groaned and did the same to his, wrapping my hand around the shaft of it and using my tongue and lips to lick and suck the head while I worked the rest of it with my fist. The more excited he got the harder he sucked. I worked more of his cock into my mouth until my fist was gone and the tip of it was gagging me. I felt him stiffen and shudder and the moan he let out around my cock caused me to come hard at the same time he did. I swallowed every drop and fucking loved it.

I passed out and slept until the sun came up. Kyle was gone when I woke up that time. I was both relieved I wasn't going to have to push him out the door and disappointed because I still wanted to fuck that ass.

I lay there and thought about going back to sleep but I was craving my own bed. One the way home I couldn't stop thinking about Kyle and how good he'd made me feel. My cock was rock hard once again by the time I got there and I was actually a little disappointed that Becky wasn't there. I jacked off in the shower since I didn't have another outlet and then still wearing just a towel, I passed out in my own bed.

# CHAPTER THREE

KENNY

Sunday morning I woke up at the crack of dawn. It's my only day off and my internal alarm clock still won't leave me alone. Maybe if I'd gone out like my brother last night instead of spending the evening in with my mom I wouldn't have gone to bed at ten and I wouldn't be ready to get up so early. But I'd stayed home and ate the dinner Mom made because otherwise she would have been home eating it all alone and that would have just broken my heart. Becky showed up but since Chet wasn't home she only hung around for a couple of hours and then left. Mom and I both breathed a sigh of relief when she was gone. She's one of the most annoying people I've ever met in my life. I'm not sure how Chet stands her.

The house was quiet when I got up so I put on the coffee and went out for a run. I guess people might think it's weird that my brother and I both still live with our parents at 21 and 23. Mom and Dad got married when Chet was twelve and I was ten. They bought a house in Laguna Hills and it's so big that most of the time we don't even have to see each other if we don't want to. My room has a private entrance and Chet has the whole pool house to himself. Mom and Dad don't make us pay rent so that sweetens the deal and if all of that's not enough, Mom is a retired chef and she still loves to cook. It's why I have to run or I wouldn't be able to fit into the scrubs I wear to work at the hospital.

As my feet pounded the pavement I thought about Chet. When our parents first got together he used to intimidate the hell out of me. At ten years old I already knew I liked boys. I also suspected that Chet was one of those boys who wouldn't like me if he found that out. I did my best to keep up with him in sports and to pretend that I was as masculine as him until one day when I was thirteen and in the showers with a bunch of guys after rugby tryouts. One of them caught me looking at him and freaked out. They were calling me ugly names like "faggot" and "queer" while they ganged up on me and as much as I tried to fight back I was no match for four jocks. As I lay on the floor of the locker room and thought about who might find my lifeless body, Chet and two of his friends showed up. Those assholes didn't know what hit them and after Chet sent them home limping and bleeding, he helped me get home and into the shower and then before he left my room that day he said,

"Why don't you do yourself a favor kid, just be who you are?"

"What do you mean?"

"You're not a jock but you've got a lot of other things going for you. Be yourself, be gay and stay away from assholes like that who will torture you because of who you are."

"Gay?"

Chet had rolled his eyes at me and said, "Really? You thought you were hiding it?"

"Kind of."

"Dude I've known you were gay almost from the moment we met. I don't give a shit whose junk you like to look at...as long as it's not mine."

I laughed and said, "Gross!"

He rolled his eyes again and said, "You wouldn't say that if you ever saw it, but if I catch you looking I'll kick your ass." He left then and we never talked about my sexual preferences again.

I took Chet's advice that day though and concentrated on what I was good at. I knew I was smart so my grades were always a priority. I joined the stagecraft team and built sets for the plays and I played on the tennis team which I was awesome at. I stopped trying to pretend that I wasn't me and I was surprised at how many people...like Chet that just didn't care. I waited until I was a sophomore in high school before coming out to Mom and Dad. Like Chet, they weren't surprised. In Mom's eyes, I've never been able to do any wrong anyways. My step-dad was a lot like Chet in so much as he was one of the most masculine men I'd ever met, but he was as supportive as his busy schedule at work allowed him to be.

I jogged for about three miles and then turned and went back home. I'd showered and was having my coffee when Dad got up. He poured himself a cup and sat down at the table with his paper. He was dressed nicely, not in a suit like he wore to work, but definitely too nice for hanging around the house.

"You have work today?" I asked him.

"No, your mother is dragging me to a charity brunch at the club. I'd rather be home working on that shed but I guess I can at least get in a few rounds of golf."

"I can work on it for you. I don't have anything going on today."

"Thanks. I asked your brother to do it but if I know him he's still in bed."

I chuckled. "Ten o'clock on a Sunday morning? Of course, he is. I'll wake him up later and have him help me."

"Good, thanks, Kenny."

"No problem." Dad is the owner of a company that invests in old houses and buildings in some of the oldest and most expensive neighborhoods in L.A. He renovates them and then sells them for some outrageous prices. When he and Mom first got married he was still doing most of the work himself. He used to take me and Chet to the job sites and as much as I sometimes grumbled about it back then, I have to admit that I learned a lot about building things. I think he was a little disappointed when I became a nurse and Chet dedicated all of his time to football. He'd had a vision of passing the business down, but as much as Chet and I both didn't mind helping him out, neither of us was cut out to be businessmen.

Dad had started building a shed next to the greenhouse in the back yard for Mom as a mother's day present three months ago. It was for her to use to plant her flowers and things. It was supposed to be a simple project but he got carried away making it nice for her and with his work schedule it was taking a lot longer than he'd planned. All that was left now was to hang the doors and frame a few of the windows. It should be simple enough but I might need Chet's brawn to do the heavy lifting. I kind of hated waking him up because if he has a hangover he'll be a dick, but helping Dad with the shed was the least my brother and I could do to earn our keep.

I finished my breakfast and went back to my room to change into a pair of jean shorts and a tank top to work in. After dressing I went out back and got everything I might need to set-up. It was almost eleven by the time I went to wake up Chet. I knocked on the door and when he didn't answer I tried the knob. It wasn't locked so I let myself in. I wrinkled my nose when I looked around the little living area. My brother is kind of a slob even with a housekeeper at his disposal. His football bag was sitting open on the couch and it gave the room a locker room kind of smell. I shook my head and made my way to the bedroom. When I got there I found the door open and Chet laying on the bed with just a towel around his waist. It caught me off guard and stopped me dead in my tracks. I stood there for a few seconds feeling tugs in places that a man should never feel while he's looking at his brother...but damn he's hot.

He was laying on his back with his arm up over his face. His bicep bulged right where the colorful tribal tattoo wrapped around it. There was more ink across both of his shoulders and the top of his chest. I watched his chest rise and fall and paid close attention to the fact that it was rippled and cut in all the right places and his left nipple was pierced...Jesus that's hot. His abs were like a washboard and the towel was just low enough to give me a glimpse of the path that led to the treasure...fuck...what the hell is wrong with me? This is Chet for Christ's sakes. I shouldn't be thinking about him like this if for no other reason than he'd kick my ass if he knew about it. I took a couple deep breaths and shook off the growing erection in my pants by picturing my nursing supervisor. She looks like ET in a skirt. It worked.

"Chet!" I knocked on the door as I called his name. I had to do it twice before that big arm came off of his face and he squinted at me with glassy red eyes and a mean look on his unshaven, handsome face.

"What? Is this place on fire? If it's not..."

"Dad wants us to finish the shed."

"Fuck. What time is it?"

"Eleven-ish."

"Fuck."

"You really need to broaden your vocabulary." He lifted his hand and gestured at me with his middle finger. I laughed. "I'll meet you out there."

"Half an hour."

"Five minutes."

"Bossy bitch," he mumbled the last as I went down the hallway. I laughed again. Once outside I did my damnedest not to think about that chest and how much I'd love to run my fingers across it. Jesus when did I become so sick that I was perving on my brother? Maybe this virgin stuff has gone too far.

I started putting the hinges on the front door jam. I got both of them on and ready for the door and Chet still hadn't shown up. With a heavy sigh, I went over and picked up the door. I carried it over to the shed and positioned it where it goes. The SOB was heavy and when I let go with one hand to try and line it up with the hinges it fell over to the side. I was straightening it back up when I looked over and saw Chet. He was in a pair of football shorts and no shirt with his arms folded across that massive chest, watching me. He's got these intense green eyes that always make him look serious, but he was smiling.

"Are you going to just stand there and smile, or are you going to help me?"

He shrugged. "It was kind of fun just watching you."

"Okay but I'm taking credit for the whole thing."

He laughed, "You mean you're going to tell Daddy on me if I don't help you?"

"Shut up."

Laughing again he said, "So mature." He came over then and took the door out of my hands. His fingers brushed mine. Mind you I've touched him a million times over the past ten years and never one little tingle. But this time, that simple touch sent a jolt of electricity racing straight for my groin. God, what is wrong with me. I watched as he lined the door up and the muscles in his chest and arms flexed and rippled. I decided that these thoughts had to be normal. I'm a gay man that hasn't had sex in over a month. There was a man in front of me who looked like Adonis and smelled like some kind of spice. It was normal to notice. It would only be abnormal if I ever tried to act on it, which I'd never do. So, I'm okay.

"I know I'm hot but could you stop staring at me long enough to drill some holes in this thing? The bitch is heavy."

I rolled my eyes at him and hoped I didn't blush. I wondered if he knew what I was thinking when I was looking at him. With slightly shaky hands I drilled the holes to match up with the top hinge and then put in the screws. When I started on the bottom one I asked him, "So how did it end up going with the recruiter yesterday?"

"They want me," he said, smugly. More than once I wished I had his confidence.

"That's great, it's where you want to be too. Did you accept their offer?"

"Nope."

"Why not?" I put in the top screw and as I tightened it he said,

"Because I still have a lot of time. I don't want to commit to crap and then get a better offer."

"What are they offering?" I put in the second set of screws.

"Two million." The screwdriver fell from my hand and landed on my foot.

"Damn it!" I reached down and picked it up and then looked up at my brother. "That's just for the first year?"

"Yeah."

"And you think you might get a better offer than that?"

"You never know, they all want me."

"What if you get greedy and they back out and you get stuck with a lot less?"

"Not gonna happen."

"Anything could happen Tay..."

"Jesus Kenny sometimes you're like an old woman." He let go of the door and pulled it closed and pushed it open. "It works. You need to lighten up."

"This is your future Chet."

"Yeah, I get that," he said. He went over and started to pick up one of the window frames just as his phone started ringing from his pocket. He pulled it out and looked at it and I saw him grimace before sliding it over and putting it to his ear. "Busy Becky." I shook my head. I don't care for her but sometimes I have to wonder why she puts up with him too. "Not today I have things to do." He'd blown her off all weekend, I'd be willing to bet she wasn't happy. "Not that I should have to give you every detail of my day but I'm helping Kenny with the shed right now and then I have another meeting with a recruiter for dinner." Another few seconds passed. I could tell by his face that she wasn't happy, and he didn't care. He seemed to let her finish however and then he said, "I'll pick you up before class tomorrow." He looked at the phone then and chuckled. If I had to guess I'd say she hung up on him. He tucked the phone back in his pocket and picked up the window frame. As soon as his now slightly sweaty muscles began to ripple...I lost all train of thought.

# CHAPTER FOUR

KENNY

Becky waved up at me. I waved back. I grimaced inside. I was hoping Mom and Dad could make it tonight. At least when they're with us at the games I have a buffer and I don't have to make conversation with her or answer twenty questions about Chet the whole time. I can actually watch the game. They had some stupid dinner to go to tonight though so I was on my own with Becky.

"Hey, Kenny!"

"Hi, Becky."

"Night off, huh?"

"Yeah, I'm working four on and three off right now, twelve-hour shifts."

"I don't know how you do twelve hours," I had to lean back to keep from getting hit in the face with her bubble butt as she pushed past me to get to her seat. She smoothed out her skirt before sitting down. Who wears a skirt to a football game? "I can barely do eight," she went on. I had to bite on the inside of my cheek to keep a straight face. Chet says she works eight hours a week at the library on campus. Her father told her he would cut her off if she didn't get some kind of job and that's what she came up with. Becky is not rich but she's spoiled and she intends to be rich just as soon as she can get my brother to marry her.

"I guess you just do what you have to do," I said.

She smiled. Her lipstick was perfect as was the rest of her make-up. She looked like she'd gotten dressed for the club instead of a football game. Where was her college mascot sweatshirt? "I guess," she said. "Maybe when Chet is rich and famous he'll let you live in his mansion and you won't have to work."

I laughed. "Maybe, but the thing is Becky, I actually love my job."

She made a face and said, "I could never be a nurse. I can't stand the smell of hospitals. You have to touch all kinds of gross stuff...it's too much."

"I wear gloves."

She still had her lip curled. "That wouldn't be enough for me. What made you decide to do that anyways? Chet said your grades in school were good enough that you could have worked as anything you wanted to."

"That's just it, Becky. I'm working right where I want to be. I really do love my job."

I could tell by the look on her face that she just didn't understand that. I was relieved when she changed the subject...kind of. "I know where I want to get married." I thought it was an odd statement since as far as I know she's not even engaged.

"Oh yeah?"

"Yep. There's this beautiful ranch out in the valley and they have these whole wedding packages, anywhere from basic to extravagant. The bride can even ride in on a white horse while the groom waits for her. It's perfect. I'm going to let my hair grow out before then of course. I can't believe I let Chet talk me into this in the first place." I looked at the blonde pageboy cut that framed her delicate features. She's one of those women that are so pretty they could pull off being bald and I was sure she knew it. She was fishing for a compliment, I think.

"I like your hair, but I liked it long too." She smiled brightly and then I cleared my throat and asked what I really wanted to ask, "Who would be the groom at this wedding?"

"Seriously?" she laughed. "You're so funny! Chet of course."

I laughed like I had just been kidding and said, "You two are talking about getting married?"

"Of course, we've been dating for two years. Once he gets signed then we'll know where we're settling and we'll start making plans."

I couldn't help myself, "So he asked you to marry him?"

"Kenny! Why are you being like that?" Before I could utter the apology on my tongue she said, "Okay fine, he hasn't actually proposed but I know he's going to. I talk about us getting married all the time and he never says it's not going to happen."

That's probably because he lets what she says go in one ear and out the other. "I'm sorry, I wasn't trying to imply it wouldn't happen. I was just curious if he proposed why he hadn't told us. I apologize if I said that wrong and offended you."

She giggled. "You're so sweet. I wasn't offended. I wish your brother was more like you, though. He doesn't care at all if what he says offends me."

I grimaced. I'd heard the way he talks to her and she's not kidding. "I know it's not an excuse, but that's just how he is. He talks to everyone the same."

She looked out toward the field as they began announcing the player's names. When they called out Chet's name she jumped to her feet and screamed, clapped and whistled. I stood up with her and watched as he jogged confidently out on the field with his helmet underneath his arm. He flashed that thousand watt smile at the audience and I'd be willing to bet every female between the ages of 18 and 60 had wet panties by the time he jogged off. I can see why Becky wants him, physically, at least. But, it's hard for me to imagine marrying someone that doesn't act like they like you no matter how hot they are. As far as I know he's already blown her off three times over the past week and I'm not even with him all the time. That would be enough for me to walk...but then again who is a 21-year-old gay virgin to throw stones?

We sat back down and as we watched the coin toss she said, "It makes me horny just watching him out there." I kept looking out at the field. What the hell was I supposed to say to that? "I mean just look at that bubble butt." She let out a little growl and made a grabbing motion with her fingers. "I just love that ass." My face was hot and I'd be willing to bet it was bright red. She turned to look at me and said, "Oh Kenny did I embarrass you? I'm sorry. I know he's your brother honey but you're gay so I just assume you know what I'm talking about. When you're having sex don't you love having a round ass like that to hold onto?"

I cleared my throat and tried to look away. My face was hotter and I assume redder. She noticed and said, "Come to think of it honey I've never seen you with a man...or a woman...why don't you have someone? You're so cute."

Cute is the word people have used to describe me my entire life. I have thick dark hair which I guess is my best feature and dark blue eyes. My skin is pale and white and I have very little hair on my body. I'm only five nine which for a man isn't very tall and at my highest weight I was only 165. Currently, I'm sitting at about 160. I have good muscle tone but it's not all that rippled, bulky muscle like Chet has. Girls always tell me that I'm cute and occasionally I catch the eye of a guy checking me out but for some reason, I only seem to draw the curious straight guys. I'm not sure I want my first time to be with someone that's only using me to satisfy their curiosity. I want it to be with someone that cares about me and wants me the way Becky talks about wanting my brother.

"I don't know Becky, the right one just hasn't come along yet." The kicker got the game started and for a few minutes, she was silent as watched. Our team gained control of the ball right off the bat and we got to watch Chet run one of his famous plays. He threw a 33-yard pass and the crowd went wild. When he came off the field a few minutes later Becky once again made a sound in her throat like she'd like to eat him up. Then she looked at me and said,

"I'm sorry. He's been so distracted with this recruitment lately that we've hardly had sex. You know how it is when you're used to it and suddenly you're not getting it."

"Mm-hmm..."

"Oh my God! You're a virgin aren't you?!" I looked around and the people in front of us and behind us were all waiting for the answer to her loud question.

"Shh! Becky please!"

She looked around too and the smiled and said, "Oops! Sorry." She leaned in and whispered, "You're a virgin, aren't you?"

I had a feeling she wasn't going to let it go so I decided to just admit to it and see if that worked. "Yes," I whispered back. "Now let's not talk about it here."

"Oh honey, it's nothing to be ashamed of. You'll find the right guy someday and then you'll be as happy as me and Chet."

I forced a smile and said, "I can't wait," without even a touch of sarcasm. I was kind of proud of myself for that.

I refused to make eye contact with her and stared out at the game. By half-time, it was going so well that I was immersed in it and I didn't even have to pretend to ignore her. By the end of the fourth quarter, Chet had completed over 700 passing yards. The announcer said the record was 764 in one game. The audience practically held its collective breath throughout the fourth quarter and when he threw his last fifty-two yard pass to make 782 for the game total the crowd went wild. It was like fucking Mardi gras. Becky and I had to use every part of our body to fight our way through the crowd and try to get to him after the game. When we finally did Becky hurtled herself at him. He caught her, gave her a quick peck and sat her aside. When I stepped up to congratulate him he gave me a big bear hug. He was ecstatic and grinning from ear to ear. Reporters were snapping pictures and putting microphones in his face and at least twice Becky tried to step into the frame. Instead of pulling her in with him, Chet would move so that she was practically invisible behind him.

When things began to settle down and Chet moved toward the locker room Becky and I followed him. Just before we got to the tunnel for players only Becky said, "Kenny and I will be waiting out front. We'll go to Hooligans and celebrate."

Chet stopped and looked at her and then at me. Once again I looked into those green eyes and tried to figure out what he was thinking. His thoughts were as elusive as ever. "Or we can go wherever you'd like," I told him.

Looking at me and not Becky he said, "I'm sorry guys but I really have to go out with the team tonight."

"What?" Becky's voice was high-pitched and I saw Chet flinch. He turned to look at her then and said,

"Look, I'm hot, sweaty and tired. I just broke a fucking record out there and that was partly thanks to my team. I need a shower and then I need to celebrate with the guys who helped me get this far. I'll call you tomorrow." He looked back at me then and said, "Sorry Kenny."

"Hey, no worries," I said. Becky shot daggers out of her eyes at me. He didn't even glance at her again as he turned and walked away. I didn't want to look at her but of course, I felt bad so I did. She had tears in her eyes...shit. "Hey, how about you and I go get dinner or a drink or something?"

She glanced in the direction of my brother's retreating back again and said, "Fine."

# CHAPTER FIVE

CHET

I felt bad about ditching Kenny but there was no way I was in the mood for Becky tonight. I'd just had the best fucking game of my career...hell, I'd had the best fucking game of anyone's career and she was not how I wanted to celebrate it. I did tell the guys on the team I'd show up for the party at our running back Carter's house later, but before I did that I needed some relief and it didn't involve Becky's pussy that was for sure.

I took a quick shower, accepted a few more congratulations, talked to the coach about an interview he'd set up with me the next day with the local news station and finally took off. It was almost eleven before I got out of there. As soon as I got to the car I pushed in Starla's number at the agency. "Hey babe, it's Tyler."

"Well hello, there big guy. What would you like tonight?"

I grinned to myself at the thoughts running through my head. Tonight while I was showering one of our defensive lines man had been standing next to me. He was black and his chocolate body was hard as a rock. I used my peripheral vision to check out his package and even soft the fucker was huge. That was what I wanted. I hadn't tasted chocolate yet. As a matter of fact, I'd had such a good night I figured I should really reward myself. "I want two tonight Starla. I want a chocolate and a vanilla. If Kyle is available send him and make the chocolate one big and hard for me, will you?"

"You know it, baby, I've got just the guy. His name is Rodney. Kyle's on too so I'll have them both over in half an hour. At the Omni again?"

"That's right, thanks, Star."

"You got it, baby."

I drove with one hand on the way to the hotel. I was already excited just thinking about getting down and dirty with two men and having my first taste of a black cock. I held onto my own erection until I pulled up to the Omni and got out. I had my duffel bag with me and I held that in front to cover the raging erection as I handed the valet my keys and went inside to register. The girl at the desk knew me and she gave me my usual room. I went straight up and spent ten minutes in the bathroom beating off. I came in buckets just thinking about what was about to happen and now I'd be able to concentrate, take my time and keep it up long enough for one hell of a ride.

I was cleaned up and ready to rock and roll when my guys arrived. I opened the door and the first sight I drank in was Kyle. I hadn't noticed the other night, but he actually favors Kenny a lot. I told myself to get that thought out of my head or I'd never be able to hold an erection. Funny thing was my dick was still soft and actually twitched when I pictured my brother's face. Weird.

Next to Kyle was a tall ebony skinned man that almost dwarfed him. He was about as tall as me but he probably had twice the muscle. Now wasn't the time for talking but I'd have to ask him what his workout routine was if I got the chance. "Hey Kyle," I said, "And you must be Rodney?" Rodney put out a huge hand and I pictured it wrapped around my throbbing meat as I shook it. Pleasantries were exchanged and as soon as they were inside I popped the top on one of the bottles of champagne. Once I'd poured all three of us a glass Rodney asked,

"What are we celebrating?"

"Me," I said with a grin. Rodney's dark eyes ran from my head to my feet and his tongue came out and licked across his full pink lips.

"I'll drink to that," he said with a lustful grin. We drank our champagne and I said,

"Maybe you two should get a little more comfortable. They started to take off their clothes and I said, "No, wait...Kyle, undress Rodney for me, slowly. I want to see you lick every part of his body as you expose it." I poured another glass of champagne and sat down on the bed to watch. The mirror was behind them so I'd have a view of both sides. Kyle started with Rodney's shirt, sliding it slowly up until it was underneath his arms and then holding it there with one hand and starting back down at the top of his pants with his tongue. Rodney's chest was fucking incredible. He had ripple on top of ripple of muscle and I watched as the sexy little twink licked each and every rise and fall of abs and chest, letting his tongue come all the way out as he licked and flicked Rodney's big, dark nipples. I could see the bulge forming in the front of Rodney's pants and it looked huge. When Kyle finished licking the skin on the other man's chest like he was a giant chocolate bar Rodney helped him get the shirt the rest of the way off and Kyle's delicate white hands went to the button on Rodney's pants. It was hard to just watch but I wasn't looking for immediate gratification tonight. I wanted this to last...all night long maybe.

I watched as Kyle slid down Rodney's pants. His palm brushed against the front of Rodney's shorts and I saw his body convulse as Kyle slid them down across his thighs, over his knees, and off his feet. He took Rodney's shoes and socks with them and then he started at his toes on one side and licked his way up to the tops of Rodney's thigh and started on the other side at the top and licked his way down. I was close to going over and ripping down those tented shorts before Kyle finally took the elastic in his hands and slowly pulled them down. I think I may have gasped aloud at the sight of the monster cock that fell out. He had to be at least ten inches long and the girth was double mine. That thing might just kill me...but what a fucking amazing way to go.

Kyle dropped to his knees and began using his tongue to worship that cock. Rodney closed his eyes and leaned his head back and put his big hands in Kyle's hair as the younger man licked up and down the shaft and then sucked as much of that monster into his delicate lips as he could get. "Fuck his mouth," I told Rodney. He looked happy to oblige. He held Kyle's dark head in place with his hands and began moving his hips, thrusting his huge cock in and out of Kyle's mouth. I could hear slurping and gagging noises as I watched and the sight in the mirror of Rodney's round, tight ass flexing and relaxing only added to the eroticism of it all. I finally couldn't stand it any longer, I had to join them. I stood up while Kyle was still kissing and licking and sucking and twirling his tongue and cupping Rodney's balls and I dropped my towel. I went over and stood over Kyle and grabbed Rodney by the back of his head and pulled his lips into mine. I kissed him like a starving man, licking and biting on his lips, sucking on his tongue. I felt Kyle reach up and take hold of my cock. He was stroking me while Rodney fucked his mouth. I licked and sucked my way down to that long ebony neck and I started biting and sucking like a vampire, actually hoping to leave marks on this beautiful black man's neck. I nibbled my way down to his nipples. Kyle had my dick tightly wrapped up in his fist and his strokes were coming harder and faster. I was glad I'd just came before they got there or I would have already been in trouble.

Rodney's nipples were fucking hot. I sucked one of those big brown rings into my mouth and let my tongue flick the hard nipple back and forth. I felt it grow against my tongue and heard a rumble come up from deep in his chest. I gave the other nipple the same treatment before pulling back and telling Rodney, "I want my cock in your mouth."

I went and sat on the bed with my body upright against the headboard. The big man lay down between my spread open thighs and first he took my cock in his hand and gave it a few strokes as he licked the tip of it. The contrast of my white skin to his black was almost as hot as what he was doing to me. I realized Kyle had sat down on the bed next to me and I leaned over and shoved my tongue into his mouth. I sucked his tongue into my mouth and played with it while Rodney played with my cock. I actually cried out into Kyle's mouth when Rodney finally covered my cock with his full lips and pulled me into the back of his mouth and began to suck. I thought I'd never felt anything better than when Kyle gave me head, but this was even ten times that. Rodney's mouth was big and my whole cock disappeared into it. I had to push Kyle back so that I could watch. Jesus fuck it was hot.

"Get me a drink," I told Kyle. I tore my eyes from Rodney engulfing my hard cock and watched Kyle's little ass as he walked over to where the champagne was. Another image of Kenny flashed through my brain and I swear to God I almost came. Shit. Kyle came back with the champagne and I told him, "Get on the bed on your hands and knees. He did as I told him and I continued to let Rodney suck me off while I reached over and played with Kyle's sweet little ass. I pressed my finger against his hole and watched it pucker. He moaned and pushed back against my hand. I reached over and grabbed the lube and squirted some right between his cheeks. I leaned over and licked it as it ran down between his legs. I followed it all the way up until I got to his asshole and heartily shoved my tongue up inside of him. He readjusted so that he was right above me and he sat that ass down on my face and squirmed around while I rimmed him. Rodney was still going to town on my cock and playing with my balls, squeezing them with his big hand. My head felt like it was going to explode...both of them. I reached down and pushed Rodney back. I heard and felt my cock pop out of his mouth at the same time. I lifted Kyle up easily and sat him down on my lap. My cock wasn't inside of him but it was pressed up against his. I loved that feeling and I used my hold on his slim hips to slide him back and forth on me, skin to skin.

"Put that condom on me," I told him, pointing at the one I'd left on the nightstand. He reached

Over and picked up the package. I watched him open it and slide it over the tip of my cock. He rolled it on slowly and my body quivered. Without saying another word he knew exactly what I wanted. He used the lube to get me all slick and then he lifted up his ass and lined himself up with my dick. I held onto it as he sat down all the way until I bottomed out. We both grunted. I looked up at Rodney who was watching us and stroking his cock and said, "Bring that monster over here I want to taste it." A second later I had a hard black cock filling my throat and a tight, sexy ass fucking my cock. It doesn't get better than this.

For the next several hours we fucked and sucked and stroked. I shot my cum all over Kyle and Rodney licked it off. Rodney shot his all over my still erect dick and Kyle sucked it off. I fucked Kyle and let him fuck me while I sucked on the head of Rodney's cock while I fisted him...and then the piece de resistance of the night...I got fucked by that ten-inch monster and it was an experience unlike any other. It touched pleasure centers inside of me that had never been touched before. Shock waves ran through my body and even though I'd already cum twice I came hard and fast without anyone even touching my cock. It was fucking earth-shattering and after all of that, I was way too far gone to go to any parties. I don't remember Kyle and Rodney leaving. All I know is that I woke up the next day close to eleven with six missed calls from Becky, one from Kenny and one from my coach. My mouth was dry, my head pounding, my ass was sore and even my nipples hurt...but I couldn't stop smiling. That was one hell of a night.

# CHAPTER SIX

CHET

I called my coach back first. He wanted to confirm I would be at the college in the Student Media Center for the TV interview at five that evening. I agreed to that, hung up and called Kenny. Becky was going to whine and my head was not ready for any of that shit.

"Hey Bro, what's up?"

"Where are you?"

I looked around the now messy hotel room. The covers and even part of the sheet were all off the bed. There were cum stains everywhere and two empty champagne bottles in the floor. "I stayed at a friends because I had too much to drink last night. What's up?"

"Apparently, you told Mike from Miami to come by the house before he left town today with their final offer..."

"Shit. I missed him?"

"Yeah, he had a plane to catch."

"Oh well, he'll be back."

"Chet, trust me, I know you're good..."

"Did you see that game last night Bro? I'm not good, I'm great."

Kenny sighed. "Okay fine, you're great. But that doesn't mean they're going to keep putting up with you putting them off and standing them up."

"They'll be back, trust me. I'm starving have you eaten?"

Kenny laughed at my change of subject. "I could eat."

"Okay, I'll pick you up in half an hour...Becky's not over there is she?"

"No, but about that..."

"We'll talk about it later. See you soon." I hung up and got into the shower. Kenny has a big heart...too big. I knew he was feeling sorry for Becky and he was going to lecture me about either stepping up or letting her go. I didn't want to do either, and I had my reasons...none of which I wanted to tell my brother.

He was waiting outside for me when I got to the house. When he slipped into the car I got a quick flashback to Kyle and how much they favored each other again. It gave me a chill down my spine and I fought off the thoughts I was having...they were just not right.

"So did you party all night?" he asked me. He was immaculately groomed as usual in a red button up shirt and a pair of black jeans and black boots. His face was clean shaven and his hair looked like he had it styled by a professional.

"Do I look that bad?" I glanced at myself in the rearview. I looked rough.

"No, you just look tired," I smiled. Kenny can't say anything mean even if it's true.

"Where do you want to eat?"

"I don't care."

"Mimi's?"

"Fine."

"Why do you have a stick up your ass?"

He sighed. "I'm just worried about you."

I pulled the car onto the freeway and once I got into the fast lane I looked over at him and said, "Why? I'm fine. Again, did you see that game last night? I have a television interview this evening."

"Hopefully, you show up for it."

"Are you pissed that I wasn't there when Mike showed up still?" I pulled around an SUV and cut in front of a semi-truck that shouldn't be in the fast lane. Kenny reached up and held onto the "oh shit" bar. I just smiled and shook my head at him.

"I'm not pissed. I'm worried."

"Don't be, I'm good."

He was quiet the rest of the way to the restaurant, but once we were seated and had ordered he said, "Chet you know I love you, man. But, you have to see how your life is just kind of coming unraveled."

"My life is not unraveled. My life has never been better."

"I hardly ever see you. Mom and Dad haven't seen you in a month and you live in the same house. Becky says you keep blowing her off..."

"Becky is too demanding. She wants to be the girlfriend of a big-time college football player she needs to learn how to chill and take a backseat every once in a while."

Kenny made a face like he does when he doesn't want to tell me something. I waited and he finally said, "She has plans to marry you, do you know that?"

I shrugged. "She can have all the plans she wants. If it's not what I want she can't make it happen."

"Why not tell her it's not what you want? I mean, wouldn't you rather be in a relationship that's happy, with someone you love?"

The waitress came with our meals and sat my eggs, bacon, potatoes and pancakes down in front of me. "Can I get you, boys, anything else?"

"Can I have some more coffee babe, and some water?"

"Sure hon." She walked away and Kenny was rolling his eyes.

"What?"

"You talk nicer to the waitress than you do your girlfriend."

"Why are you so worried about Becky all of a sudden?"

"I'm not worried about her. I'm worried about you."

"You've always been a worry wart." The waitress sat the tabasco on the table and I winked at her and said, "Thank you, darling." Once she was gone I said, "Look, I just had a game last night that put me in the record books forever. I have every NFL team in the country looking at me and three of the top ones wooing me. I have a hot girlfriend, a good family...Things couldn't be better. I don't know what you're obsessing over."

"You're not yourself," he said. I buttered my pancakes and slathered them in syrup and took a gigantic bite. Kenny was watching me and as they slid down my throat he said, "When was the last time you worked out?"

I almost choked. "What?"

"When was the last time you worked out? You're eating carbs lately like they're going out of style. How much weight have you put on?"

"Are you calling me fat?"

"No, you're not fat, not by a long shot. But it's just another example of how you're not yourself. You used to work out religiously...since you were twelve years old. You have also always watched your diet and limited your carbs. You used to at least spend one night a month having dinner with the family and your girlfriend got to go to parties with you instead of being left behind. And...getting into the NFL draft was a priority that you would have made time for. What is really going on with you, Chet? Is there another woman? Is that where you keep disappearing to?"

"Hell no, there is no other woman. I can barely handle the one I've got."

"You're not taking this draft thing seriously. Blowing these guys off is only going to piss them off. If Miami is what you want, you should just accept their offer...and be a little bit gracious about it."

"I'm taking it seriously, okay? This is my life, my career, I have it under control."

"Your coach called the house looking for you this morning."

"Yeah, he found me."

"He called from Carter's house. He was over there having breakfast and Carter told him you never showed up for the party last night."

Fuck. "Fine, so I didn't go to some stupid party with a bunch of dickheads I don't really like anyways, big deal."

"I just don't understand why you lied to me." He looked hurt and I felt bad. I actually considered telling him for just a fraction of a second. I couldn't do it. He'd think I was gay and although that's okay for him, that's who he is, it's not me. I'm not gay. I'm just having fun.

"Look, Kenny, I'm sorry. I told a lie not for your benefit but for Becky's. I just couldn't handle being with her last night. I got a hotel room and had a few drinks and I just crashed. I didn't wake up until right before I called you."

"Alone?"

"Yeah Kenny, alone. I'm sorry man, you forgive me?"

He shook his head. "Of course."

"Good, if I eat these pancakes are you going to call me fat again?"

He laughed. "Maybe."

"Fuck you then, I'm eating 'em."

He laughed and shook his head again. The rest of the meal we spent talking about one of Kenny's co-workers, my television interview and Mom's new glasses that make her look like a turtle. It was good to just B.S. with my brother. He always made me feel better as long as he wasn't obsessing over my life. I have it under control...I think.

# CHAPTER SEVEN

KENNY

I did my best trying to talk to Chet about what was going on in his life. He just wants to keep insisting it's all fine but I know that it's not. He's just not himself and I'm afraid he's going to get hurt or screw up his career and since that's all he's lived for so long, his life. But, there was only so much I could do so I tried to concentrate on my own life and leave him to his. I did, of course, show up for the last game of the season. It was a packed house but Chet always left tickets for me at will call. As I was walking in after I picked mine up, my phone started ringing. I took it out and saw it was Becky. I actually considered not answering it. Every time I talk to her it's like playing twenty questions about Chet and what's going on with him. I figured she was already here though and she'd know I just ignored her so I answered it,

"Hey, Becky what's up?"

"Kenny," she was out of breath. "I had a photo shoot today in La Brea and now I'm stuck in traffic. I'm going to be late for the game."

"Oh...okay..." As far as I know she's not playing in the game so I wasn't sure what all the drama was about.

"I'm proposing to him."

"Excuse me?"

"Chet, I'm proposing to him at half time. I have it all set up with the officials and..."

"Becky you can't do that."

"Why?"

"Have you talked to Chet about this?"

"No, it's a surprise. He'll love it. He loves attention."

My worry was that she wasn't going to love it when he turns her down in front of a stadium full of people. "I just think a thing like that should be talked about in private..."

"Listen, Kenny, I don't want to be rude but I didn't call you for advice. You're a young, gay, virgin honey. I hardly think you're an expert on these things."

"You're right, but I do know Chet."

"And so do I," she said. "Just do me a favor and find the half-time coordinator. Her name is Sandra Lu and she usually sits by the cheerleader's bench. Tell her I'm on my way but I'll need her help to set up."

"Becky..."

"Thanks Kenny, you're a doll." She blew a kiss and then disconnected the call. I stood there looking at the phone and picturing the disaster that was going to take place at half-time. I kind of wish I would have just stayed at home. Feeling the weight of the world on my shoulders I found my seat. The game already started and Chet was out there running the ball back. Everything that happened in the next two minutes happened so quickly that I almost thought I imagined it. He stopped his run, drew his arm back and threw. The football was already sailing through the air when one of the opposing team's linesmen hit him...hard. Chet actually came up off the ground about two feet. He flew backwards and as his body slammed into the ground his leg twisted at an unnatural angle. My first thought was that it was broken. I was on my feet and pushing my way back through the crowd within seconds. Security stopped me as I tried to get out onto the field but I told one of them,

"Chet is my brother. I'm a nurse. Please, tell Coach Michelson it's Kenny, he knows me."

The officer looked annoyed but told me to wait where I was and he'd ask. I watched him walk over to where Coach was. The older man looked over at me and waved me toward him. I jogged over and he opened up a space in the crowd around Chet and let me through. I knelt down next to him. He had his arm across his face and I could tell that he was in a lot of pain. The EMT was holding his leg and asking questions Chet wasn't answering.

"I'm his brother, I'm a nurse. Chet are you okay?" Chet moved his arm and looked at me. He tried to smile. That warmed my heart because from the looks of his face it was amazing that he hadn't passed out yet.

"It hurts like a mother-fucker," he said.

"Where does it hurt?"

"Up by my ass on the back of my left leg...hamstring area mostly."

"Okay, you can bend it, though, your joint is okay?"

"Yeah, I think so. But it just hurts so fucking bad."

"You may have torn a ligament," I told him. "Try to relax, these guys are going to get you to a hospital."

"Fuck! Playoffs start next week."

I didn't want to be the one to tell him that if this is a torn ligament he's not going anywhere for weeks on end, maybe months. I simply said, "I know Bro, I'm sorry."

********

Four hours later it was confirmed that he'd torn his hamstring. He was as grouchy as a bear and I was sitting at his bedside trying not to concentrate on that ring in his nipple. I know, I'm a terrible person. I'm having sexual fantasies about my step-brother when he's in pain, no less. What the hell is wrong with me? They had at least finally taken him from the ER and put him in a private room. The surgeon had been in to see him and he was on the schedule for in the morning.

"You can go home," he barked at me.

"Okay, if that's what you want. Becky has called four times..."

"Do not tell her what room I'm in! You told the front desk not to give out my room number to anyone, right?"

"I told you I would and I did. But..."

"Yeah I know, she's worried. Tell her I'm fine. Tell her I'm sleeping. Tell her I'm fucking dead, I don't fucking care. I just want to be left alone."

I stood up and said, "Okay. I'll be back in the morning."

I was almost to the door when he said, "Jesus, why are you always so nice?"

I turned and looked at him. "You'd rather I was a dick head?"

"Like me?"

I shrugged. "You said it, not me."

"Fuck. I'm sorry, Kenny. I'm grateful that you're here, really, I am. This just sucks."

I went over to the bed. "I know it does. I'm sorry. I wish I knew how to make it better."

"There is one thing you can do."

"Anything."

"I have to pee."

I laughed. "You want me to cath you?"

"Fuck that! Get me up and to the bathroom."

"You can't put weight on that leg. I'll have to get some help."

"We can do it. I can put weight on the other leg. Just help me get into the wheelchair."

I couldn't say no to him. With a sigh, I went over and got the wheelchair. I parked it next to the bed and put the brakes on it and then I put the side of the bed down. I pulled the sheet back and nearly had a fucking heart attack. Chet was completely naked and I was staring at his junk. "What the hell? Why are you naked?"

"I'm not wearing a dress."

"It's not a dress, it's a gown. And what about underwear?"

"They took them in ER and put them in that plastic bag with my clothes. Jesus, you act like you never saw a naked man before."

If he only knew the truth. I'd seen hundreds of naked men between my job and online and in magazines. But, it was his nakedness that was affecting me. I've lost my mind and all I can think about is how bad I want to touch my step-brother's hot body. God help me. "Come on," I told him. "Put your arm around my neck. Don't put any weight on that leg."

"Yes Mom."

"Speaking of, I called Mom and Dad too. They were going to come down but I told them to wait for morning."

"Good," he said. He reached up and put his arm around me. Chet and I hug all the time, but never while he was naked. I prayed he wouldn't be able to see the bulge growing in the front of my jeans as I helped him stand on one leg and sat him down in the chair. My eyes once again sought out his sizeable package. My dick twitched again when I realized that his was getting hard too. I pretended not to notice and wheeled him into the bathroom. He used the handicap bar on the wall to pull himself up and I stood behind him. When he put his hand on his tool I actually caught myself licking my lips. Thank God I was behind him...and speaking of behinds, Becky was right about that ass, it is perfect.

It seemed to take him a really long time but he finally peed. I tried not to watch as he shook it but I couldn't resist. Once he was done he sat back down in the chair and I pushed him over to wash his hands. When I got him back to his bed and put my arm underneath his everything went crazy. He suddenly used the big arm wrapped around me to pull my face into his. My step-brother's tongue was in my mouth. He was kissing me, like I've never been kissed. It was hot and passionate and so fucking wrong. What the hell are we doing? I pulled back after way too long and looked at his face. For the first time in my life I read what was in those green eyes. It was lust. I automatically looked down. His erection was big and hard now and it was beautiful.

"Wh-What was that?"

"I'm sorry Kenny."

"I don't understand."

"Neither do I. It was just an impulse."

I looked down at his cock again and I noticed he was looking at the bulge in my jeans. "Chet?" He looked torn. He looked like he wanted to say something but at the same time he didn't. "I should go. I'll ask the night nurse to come and help you..." He reached for my hand and pulled it into his chest. Holding it against his warm skin he looked up into my eyes and said,

"Don't go, Kenny. You want this too."

"It's not right."

"Nobody has to know but you and me. I've wanted you for a long time..."

"Chet don't."

"I fantasize about you."

"Chet."

"I want to fuck you, Kenny. I want to touch your body and I want you to touch mine."

"Jesus." I was sweating, my heart was racing. Every nerve in my body was raw. Was I actually going to do this? Was I going to give my virginity to my step-brother in a hospital room?"

"Becky told me you're a virgin."

"Great."

"Who better to teach you then your big brother? How many things have I taught you in our lives? This will just be one more lesson, just between you and me. Kiss me again, Kenny."

My mind went haywire and all I saw were those sexy lips. I bent down and pressed mine into them again and Chet pulled me down so I was sitting on his good leg. While we kissed I felt his hands run up underneath my shirt. They were hot, or I was. I felt like I was on fire. When we came up for air he pulled at my jeans and said, "Take these off, I want to see you."

Like I was in a trance I stood up in front of him and unbuttoned, unzipped and pushed them down along with my underwear. He licked his lips and reached out and took my throbbing erection in his hand. God, it felt good. I'd been masturbating since I was eleven. It never came anywhere near feeling as good as it did with his fist closed around me...and then he started moving it. He started sliding his hand up and down and I was lost in an ecstasy I had never known existed. I thought that nothing in the world could feel better than that until the tip of his tongue was suddenly on the head and he was swirling it around, polishing my knob with his spit. I groaned out his name and he looked up at me and smiled, just before he engulfed the whole thing and sucked it all the way into his mouth. Fourth of July had nothing on what was taking place inside my head. My brother was no amateur at this. He'd definitely done this before. That should have been shocking but I was too turned on to give it much thought at this point. My hands went to his head and I wrapped my fingers up in his hair and I began moving my hips, fucking my step-brother's mouth. His hands were cupping the cheeks of my ass and I suddenly felt one of his fingers slide between my cheeks and begin probing against my hole.

"Oh Jesus Chet...you have to stop, I'm going to come already." He gave my dick a few last licks and then he let it pop out of his mouth.

"Turn around," he told me. I must have looked scared because he said, "Do you trust me, Kenny?"

I nodded. "Then turn around." I turned so I was facing the bed. He nudged me forward so the top half of my body was lying across it and then he spread my cheeks with his hand and he began to lick my asshole. He reached underneath me and once again wrapped his hand around my cock. I was moaning and whimpering and saying his name over and over. I know I'll regret this tomorrow, but for today I was in paradise.

Once my ass was nice and wet I felt him trying to get up. That's when my senses came back and I stood up. "Huh uh, stay in the chair."

"I want to fuck you, Kenny. I need to be buried in that sweet little ass of yours, please."

"Okay, but you can't stand up. You'll hurt yourself."

"Fine, do you have any KY jelly?"

I went over and took some out of the bedside table. "Put it on your fingers and get your hole all lubed up for me and then put some on your hands and do the same with my cock." I squirted the lube on my fingers and although I felt a little silly I bent at the waist slightly and reached back to lube up my ass. The silliness left me when I looked at Chet. He didn't look like he thought I was silly. He had his hand moving, stroking his hard cock up and down as he watched me and a lustful look in his eyes. "Now me," he said. I know he was talking about lubing him but suddenly I was overwhelmed with a desire to touch and taste him. I got on my knees in front of his chair and took his cock in my hand. I traced the outside of my lips with it and he let out a long, sexy groan. I flattened my tongue then and licked him from base to tip. "Nice little Bro. Put your mouth on it now. Take it into your mouth and suck it for my Kenny."

I did that and the combination of his musky scent and the feel of his cock in my mouth and the dirty things we were doing to each other almost made me shoot my load onto the floor. Thank goodness he pulled me off of him after just a few minutes and said, "I need you now. Lube my dick." He sat back and watched me spread the oily substance over his cock. I gave it a few more swipes than I had to. It was so fucking beautiful, I just wanted to keep touching it. I also loved the sounds he made and the way he whispered my name. He's so sexy. Why am I just noticing how hot he is? "Turn around and sit on it," he said. He had his cock in his hand and he was holding it straight up in the air.

I tried not to think about all the rules we were breaking. I tried not to think about how bad this was going to hurt. I focused on the fact that I was with the hottest guy in the city and I counted myself as one lucky man. I turned to face away from him and I felt his hands come up and take ahold of my slim hips. Then he pulled me downward and suddenly I felt just the tip of his cock pressing into my virgin hole. He pressed harder and I felt myself opening up for him. He pressed even harder and the walls of my ass began to open up like a flower in the garden. I grunted. "Are you okay?" he asked, breathlessly.

"Better than okay," I told him with a groan. Then I slid down on his pole a little further and deeper. I felt him tense when he bottomed out. He started moving and he reached around front and played with my almost painful erection. He was stroking it as he fucked me in the ass. I couldn't have ever imagined how good this was going to feel. "I'm going to come Chet."

"Good, come for me, Kyle."

"Oh God Chet!"

"Come baby brother, come for your big brother." His dirty talk was turning me on and the way he was making me feel...Jesus, I couldn't even describe it if I tried. I suddenly couldn't hold back any longer and I grunted loudly as I came. I heard him moan and then he gripped onto my hips so tightly that it almost hurt and he lifted his hips up into me and I felt his warm come coat my insides. I was glad he was holding onto me because if he hadn't been I may have fallen on the floor. When he finished milking his cock up into me he wrapped his arms around me and pulled my body back into his. I relaxed back into him, feeling like I was floating on a cloud. I may have even fallen asleep there, I was so relaxed...that was until the door opened and I heard a scream. I opened my eyes and looked into the shocked face of my brother's girlfriend. Shit.

# CHAPTER EIGHT

CHET

"Tay it's not the end of the world." I was sitting in the pool house with my leg in a brace and looking at the morning paper. I'd been out of the hospital for two days. It had been a week since Becky walked in on me and Kenny. She freaked out and told me she was going to the press with what she saw. I talked to her and Kenny talked to her. We begged and pleaded. By the time she walked out that day I would have sworn she'd decided to keep it to herself. Boy was I wrong. This morning's sports headline read, "Chet Diggs caught having sex with his stepbrother in the hospital room." The article went on to quote Becky as saying she felt like her life was over. I'd lied to her. I'd promised to marry her...I'd been pretending and using her all along.

"You think?" I said to Kenny. I was angry and I needed a scapegoat. You'd think he would know to get out of my way. But he's a glutton for punishment. "You don't think getting caught with your dick in your brother's ass right before you get drafted is not the end of the world?"

"Step-brother," he said.

"Oh, that makes it better! Fuck Kenny! This is so fucked up!"

He actually had tears in his eyes. "I'm sorry Chet. I'm so sorry." My mind went back to that day. I'd wanted him so badly. He said no. I did everything in my power to seduce him. I'd taken his virginity, ruined my own life and now I was taking it out on him and he was saying he was sorry. I'm a horrible person. I fucking hate myself. I hate my life.

"It's not your fault," I finally managed. "It's mine. I ruined everything. Have Dad and Mom seen this?"

Kenny looked nauseated. He nodded. "I did my best to explain, but..." he shrugged. I could only imagine. If the paper had simply outed me, they would have been okay with that. But outing me with my brother was a different story. Fuck.

"What the hell are we going to do?"

"Mom and Dad will be okay..."

"I'm not talking about them!" I didn't mean to yell but sometimes he has such a Polly-Anna view of the world. I lowered my voice and said, "My reputation is ruined and surely this is going to affect your job too, right? I mean, you were in the hospital where you work."

"I've already called my supervisor. He's going to arrange for a transfer for me."

"Damn it! You love your job, that's not fair."

"I'll still be a nurse, just not in that hospital."

"Where are they transferring you?"

"It doesn't matter..."

"Kenny!"

"To the geriatric center across town."

"You'll be babysitting old people?"

"Actually, I'll be the nursing supervisor over there so I'll be babysitting other nurses." He laughed.

"How the hell can you laugh?"

"Because the only other thing to do is cry and I don't want to do that. This sucks and it's embarrassing and God knows it will take a lot of time for us to live it down...but it's not the end of the world. Life will go on and people will forget..."

"It will be too late. Both of our careers are fucked."

"Mine is okay and I'm sure yours will be too."

"Really Kenny, you're sure? I have five missed calls this morning. I can't bring myself to listen to the messages. I know they're calling to revoke their offers. I know they are."

"Let me have the phone," he said. I handed it to him and watched his face as he listened to message after message. He finally pushed the end button and swallowed hard. "Okay, well, they're not the only teams in the NFL. Guys get suspended for crimes all the time and they take them back. So big deal, you're gay..."

"Excuse me? I'm not gay! Why the fuck would you even say that?" He raised an eyebrow at me.

"Chet that was not your first ride."

"That doesn't make me gay."

"Remember when I was thirteen and you told me to just be me?"

"This is different."

"No, it's not. You're about to get bullied...nationwide. Don't give in to it. Don't let them take away your identity."

"I'm not gay!"

"Okay, fine. My advice to you is to call those recruiters back and tell them this has nothing to do with your ability to play ball. Be assertive and polite and..."

"Leave me alone, Kenny. I'm tired."

"You just got up."

"You want to tell me when I can be tired or not now?"

He sighed and I felt bad again. "No...take a nap, maybe it will help you feel better. Call me if you need anything. Stay off that leg."

"Like it fucking matters." I didn't look back up at him I just heard the door slam as he left. I grabbed my crutches and hobbled into the kitchen to see what I had to drink. I found a bottle of Jack Daniels and I opened it and drank straight from the bottom. It burned all the way down and my stomach felt like it was boiling in acid when I got done. But after a few minutes, it started making me feel numb. That's what I wanted. I picked up the bottle and took another long, hard swig. Maybe I can drink enough to pass out...that would be good.

********

KENNY

By the end of that week it seemed as if every news outlet in the country had picked up the story. It was online in the papers and on every news brief. Mom and Dad stopped going to the country club and I heard Dad telling Mom that it was affecting his business as well. They didn't look at me the same and Chet refused to even come inside and look at them. I took dinner out to him every night but when I knocked he just yelled at me to "go away." He's losing weight and the last time he let me in he was still wearing the same clothes from that first day. I'm getting more worried about him by the day.

The six major teams that were looking to draft him suddenly wouldn't even take my calls. I had no idea what to do to help, but I had to do something. The one person in my life that had always had my back was Chet...I had to have his as well. I went online and printed out a list of all of the NFL teams and the name of their coaches and recruiters. Then I used an investigation service online to trace their numbers and then I started at the top of the list. Some of them wouldn't even talk to me once they found out who I was. Some of them actually told me how disgusting Chet and I were. I could hear sympathy in some of their voices, but even those didn't want to take Chet on. Wherever he went now the media would follow him and that scared the NFL execs to death. I was almost to the bottom of the list when I saw the name of a team that I barely recognized. Somewhere in the far recesses of my mind I recalled them. They're a team from Texas, a fairly new, young team. I know that Texas is a conservative state, but I had to try. I dialed the number and a young woman's voice answered,

"Texas Tornadoes, how can I direct your call?"

"Yes my name is Kenny Beaumont and I'd like to speak with Mr. Clementine please."

"What is this in reference to, sir?"

I almost hung up. I wasn't sure I was strong enough to do this. I took a deep breath and said, "Chet Stanton."

There was a slight hesitation and then she said, "Please hold."

I held for a really long time. I was almost ready to give up when I heard a man's voice say, "This is Scott Clementine, who am I speaking with?"

"Kenny Beaumont. I'm Chet Diggs' step-brother and manager." "Manager" was not exactly honest but a little white lie is called for here.

There was a hesitation and then he said, "Well, let's just get this out of the way...is this the brother he was having sex with in the hospital room?"

"Sir, first of all, we are not blood-related. Chet is my step-brother. Second, we both realize what we did was wrong but when you're struggling with your sexual identity in this world, it's not always easy. My step-brother is a good man and a phenomenal football player. Does who he chooses to have sex with change that? No, it does not. He did not commit a criminal act. He made a mistake that now he has to publicly live with because someone decided to put his personal life out there for all to see...out of spite. Think about this for me, the big leagues have turned their backs on him because of his choice. It wasn't incest so in the public's eyes they have turned their backs on this amazing football player who got through four years of college and twenty-three years of life without getting a DUI, without ever testing dirty, without committing any crimes whatsoever at all, because he may be gay. As far as I am concerned, that's wrong and it's blatant discrimination as well. Also sir, if you read the comments on the news reports on social media, you'll see that public opinion is almost overwhelmingly in Chet's favor. People don't care any longer if their favorite athlete is gay or not. People think that an athlete should be judged on his ability to get the job done. My step-brother broke records last week. Please ask yourself this: If I had called you then, before this malicious smearing of his character in the press, would you have even hesitated to say no?"

Another long pause and then suddenly...laughter. The man was laughing. I didn't know how to take that. Should I hang up? Should I wait him out? Before I could decide the man said, "Boy you might be gay but you've got some balls. Tell me something, what do your parents think of all of this?"

"As you might be able to understand sir, they're upset. Chet and I had a normal, healthy upbringing. Our parents are open-minded people and when I came out as gay they readily accepted me. They didn't like hearing about our liaison, but tell me sir who has not made a mistake in their youth when it came to sex? I have no concerns that they won't forgive us. My only concern is for Chet's career. He has spent his entire life working toward this. Should he be punished for life for one mistake that by the way hurt no one?"

"No sir, I don't believe he should." I sat there holding my breath. Was he saying he'd consider him? I was afraid to ask. "But," here it comes, I thought, "I ain't gonna be able to offer that boy no two million dollar contract. We're a new team. My highest paid draft pick was just at 1 million."

"We're not pushing for money at this point sir. But, think about this, you'll have a NCAA trophy winning legend as part of your team. You don't have one of those as far as I can see from your current roster. That'll be a draw that I'm sure will bring you new fans. You will get further than you ever have before with a quarterback that can throw as many yards as my brother can in one game and even if we sat all that aside, you'll get the respect of the LGBT community because you didn't judge this young man by his sexual preferences."

He laughed again and then said, "You're good. I have to do some talking with my team. Can I get back to you?"

"Absolutely, but just know that you're not the only team I'm giving this pitch too."

Still laughing he said, "No, I don't reckon we are. Leave your number with my assistant and you'll hear back from me by the end of the day."

"Thank you, sir." I realized as I ended the call my hands were shaking. Maybe I'm not as bad at business as I thought I might be. Hopefully, I can use the same skill to repair my own career. Right now, however, I still have a job which is more than I can say for Chet.

# CHAPTER NINE

CHET

Out of breath and with my leg throbbing I dropped my crutch and almost fell down into the mud near the edge of the cliff. Fuck this city makes it hard for a handicapped man to off himself. I'd taken Dad's shotgun out of the safe. I don't think anyone has used it since the last time he shot skeet which was years ago. Luckily he had a few shells in the bottom of the safe. I'd only need one. I thought about just doing it in the pool house, but I knew Kenny would be the one to find me. He's been through enough already and I know when I'm found that he's going to feel guilty whether he finds me or not. At least this way he won't have to remember what I looked like with my brains on the wall. I didn't want Dad and Mom to have to see it either, so here I sit at the edge of one of the cliffs at Hermit Falls, out of breath and in pain. I pulled the bottle of whiskey that I'd brought with me out of the duffle bag that also held the gun. I'd been drinking steadily all morning. I was probably way too drunk to drive, but I told myself if I got stopped and taken to jail I'd look at it as a sign I shouldn't do this. Well here I am, no signs. I took a long draw from the bottle, finishing what was there. I tossed it aside and pulled out the other one I'd brought. It was a different kind of whiskey, but it would do. As long as it made me numb and it made me forget.

I thought back on my life. I'd had a good one. My mom died when I was four which I'm sure was a bitch at the time, but I don't really remember it. My Dad stepped up and he made sure I had everything I needed. From then on out things were smooth sailing and when he married Kenny's mom I was twelve and I actually liked her already so there was no trauma there either. Kenny was ten and he was a skinny, nervous little kid. I'm not sure what made him so high strung, maybe it was losing his dad when he was six. He told me later on that was when he decided he wanted to be a doctor or a nurse so he could help people. His dad was sick for a long time and in the hospital and Kenny and Mom had to watch him waste away. But thankfully for him his Mom was as good as my Dad at stepping up and once the two of them got together they gave us a life that one of the Brady's would have been envious of. So the question begs, how did I end up like this?

I told myself often that I'm not gay. I obviously don't have an issue with people that are. Kenny is one of the best people I know and I could give a shit who he's attracted to. But with me, it's always seemed different somehow. I'm supposed to be the tough guy, the jock, the guy that women lusted after and men hero-worshipped. My whole life, my whole persona, my whole future seemed to be built on that image. I didn't know how to be anything else. I couldn't face a lifetime of scrutiny by people who thought there was something wrong with me because of who I wanted to have a sexual relationship with. I'm not as strong as Kenny. I can't do this. I can't live without football, I don't know how to do anything else. I can't even fathom the thought of starting over...

I unscrewed the cap on the new bottle and started to drink from that one...a few more drinks, I told myself, then I can do it. I can put this shotgun in my mouth and pull the trigger. Everyone will be better off. I know Kenny will take it hard and I feel really bad about that. I left him a note and told him it wasn't his fault. I felt like shit for getting him involved. He's been a good brother and a great friend and he doesn't deserve this shit because of me. I took another long pull off of the bottle and stared out over the cliffs wondering how long it would be before they discovered my body. Hopefully, that would happen before Kenny found the note...

********

KENNY

My heart was pounding nearly out of my chest and my hands were shaking so hard that I dropped the note in my hands. Fucking Chet! When I found him I was going to kick his ass! That was if he's still alive. Oh shit, I can't think about that. He has to be alive. What the hell did he think he was doing? He's going to kill himself and leave me behind to deal with the fallout? He's so going to get his ass kicked. I've never kicked anyone's ass in my life, but he's going to be the first. I grabbed my keys and headed out. I had no idea where he would go. In the note, he said, "Somewhere that me or Mom or Dad didn't have to find him." Idiot!

I drove to the practice center at the college first. I got accosted there by reporters waiting for Chet to show up. He hasn't gone to practice all week. His coach wanted to talk to me about what was going on and it seemed like everyone else just wanted to stare and whisper. I didn't have time for any of it. From there I drove to Becky's apartment. I was pretty sure he wouldn't be there but I was grasping at straws. I parked in front of her building and just as I was going up the stairs, she came out. She looked panicked when she saw me like she wanted to run. I don't blame her. If I was going around trying to ruin people's lives I wouldn't want to face them either.

"Hi, Becky."

"Kenny...what are you doing here?"

"I was looking for Chet, have you seen him?"

"Not since the day I saw him screwing you."

"Classy, Becky."

"Classy? Really? You were screwing my boyfriend."

"Fine, I'll give you that you have a right to be pissed...but to try and ruin his life, and mine over it? That's going too far."

"Listen to me you little..." she looked like she couldn't even stomach the words for me. That's okay, I didn't need Becky's approval. "You screwed up my whole future. I wasn't walking away without getting something out of it!"

I raised an eyebrow. It hadn't dawned on me that she got paid for releasing that interview. Damn if she'd only thought to take pics she'd probably be rich. I started to tell her what I thought of it but realized before I opened my mouth that it wouldn't do any good. In all honesty, if Chet had treated her better, she may not have ended up such a bitch. But who knows? I turned around and walked away, spending the rest of the day searching for my brother. I was just about to give up and get the police involved...and that was when I got the call from the hospital.

CHET

I woke up with the worst hangover of my life. What made it worse was that I also had an IV in my arm and sticky heart monitor things all over my chest. I was back in the hospital and from the pounding in my head, I wasn't dead. Fuck, I can't even kill myself right. I peeled my eyes open with a great deal of effort and the first thing I saw was Kenny's face. He looked pissed.

"Hey, Bro." My voice was raspy. It sounded like I'd been yelling all night.

"Don't you "hey bro," me. What the fuck were you thinking? Were you going to leave me behind to deal with all of this on my own? Thank God for alcohol poisoning and a guy out walking his dog. As soon as you're out of that bed I'm kicking your ass." I couldn't help it, I laughed. That only seemed to piss him off more. "What? Big tough guy thinks I can't kick his ass? You've pissed me off enough, I assure you that I might not win a fight with you but I'm ready to go a few rounds."

"I'm sorry Kenny."

"Sorry isn't good enough. You're an idiot. I love you, man. Mom and Dad love you. You have thousands of adoring fans. You have friends that are standing by you. You are twenty-three years old, you have your whole life. Do you think I should kill myself?"

"What? No, of course not."

"Why not? I'm gay. I don't deserve to live, right? There's no hope for me, for my life. I'll never be happy..."

"Stop it!"

"Why? Isn't that what you were thinking when you decided to off yourself? Why is it okay for me to be gay if it's not okay for you?"

"Kenny, I have a headache. Can we do this later?"

"No! We cannot fucking do this later!" Kenny rarely ever raised his voice. It was raised now and the veins in his neck were even protruding. "You have screwed up your life lately Chet but let me tell you it has nothing to do with being gay and everything to do with not wanting to admit it. As wise young boy told me once that I'd never be happy unless I was myself. Well, at least then I thought he was wise, now I'm not so sure."

"Fuck Kenny...I don't want to be gay."

I laughed. "Nobody "wants" to be gay. But by the same token, nobody "wants" to be straight either. We are just who we are Chet and we have to love ourselves before anyone else will accept us for that. So you like men. Does that change who you are? Does that make you a bad person? Does it make you less of a man or a football player? No, it does not. It makes you a man who is sexually attracted to other men. It's not your entire persona, but it is a part of who you are and until you embrace it, this," he waved his arm around the room, "Will be your life. I'm not going to let you kill yourself. Every time you try I'm going to drag your big ass back to the hospital and get you better so you have to face your shit!" He was breathing heavily and his face was red. It was cute.

"I'm sorry, Kenny."

"Don't apologize to me...apologize to yourself for not loving who you are." I was about to say I was sorry again when I looked up and saw my parents in the doorway. I looked at Kenny and the little shit smiled and winked. "This is all you." He kissed Mom on the cheek on the way out and I saw Dad clasp him on the shoulder. They adore him. I adore him. Everyone that knows him adores him and it has nothing to do with his sexual orientation and everything to do with his heart. I was going to have to start taking lessons. But first I'd have to deal with two more angry people. Mom and Dad both looked like they wanted to get in line and kick my ass when Kenny was finished with me.

********

ONE YEAR LATER

CHET

I stepped up to the podium and took the microphone out of the coach's hand. I waited for the applause to die down and I said,

"Thank you all so much and thank you for being here today. First of all I'd like to thank my coach, my manager, all of my teammates and the NFL for this prestigious award. It means more to me than I can say to have the title of MVP of the NFL bestowed on me in my first year. I feel like it's more than just a trophy. It's more than just a title or an award. To me it's validation. Most of you know that a year ago I was in a really bad place. You see I'd spent my adult life denying who I really was. I tried to play a role and be what I thought everyone else expected me to be. A wise man told me that I was never going to be happy if I tried to be anyone but myself." I looked out into the audience at Kenny. He was at the front table with our parents and his boyfriend Scott. Scott is a football player. Kenny met him at one of my games. He plays for USC and he and Kenny have really hit it off. Kenny is happier than I've ever seen him and I am so happy for him. "For a long time I not only tried to deny that I was a gay man but I tried to cover up my unhappiness with alcohol and women. I neglected my family. I treated women poorly. I didn't give my friends and teammates the time they deserved. All of that because hiding who I am was a full-time job. I was outed to the world in a horrible way, but the truth is if the woman that did that to me was here right now I'd thank her and I'd also apologize for the way I treated her before all of this. Maybe she shouldn't have done what she did, but I also shouldn't have used her. I've come a long way since then. In the past year I've gotten involved in a lot of advocacy groups for the LGTB community and I was recently elected to chair a committee made up of athletes and actors and actresses...people that kids look up to, to go into schools and educate children about simply being yourself. It's okay to be gay. It's okay to be straight. The same with Bisexual, transgender...the only thing that's important is to be yourself and to not judge others. I have to thank my brother Kenny for teaching me that lesson and my parents for accepting me for who I am. I also have to thank Coach Clementine for the chance he gave me when nobody else would. Texas Tornadoes went from a virtually unknown new team to a real contender in the NFL this year under his guidance. I'm proud to be a part of this team. I'm proud to know these people and most of all, I'm proud to be who I am. Thank you all again." The audience got on their feet and as I walked off the stage my heart sped up. Kyle was here.

Part of my deal with Kenny and Texas was that I go through rehab for both my sex and alcohol addictions before I moved forward with my life and my career. I was in a facility for three months and I've been in a twelve-step program ever since and I've never felt better. I actually ran into Kyle at a Starbucks one day. We sat and talked and he told me he had quit the escort thing and was working on getting his life together. He'd just started classes at USC. He wanted to be a teacher and he'd been doing the escort thing to get money for school. After that day we started meeting once a week for coffee and I've gotten to know him really well. I've found out that he has a heart as big as my brother's and now as much as I still think he's hot, that's what I'm really attracted to. I stopped in front of him and kissed him on the cheek.

"Thank you for being here."

He took my hand and said, "There is no place on earth I'd rather be." We walked together over to the table where everyone I loved was sitting all in one place and as I took them all in I finally realized that I am the luckiest man on earth.

If you're interested in other Gay Romance titles, we'd love to have you join our Exclusive Readers List:

<Sign Up For the Exclusive Readers List>
