 
Rags To Riches

Volume One

By

Really Rashida

Rags To Riches Volume One

By Really Rashida

Copyright 2013 Rashida Williams

Distributed By Smashwords

Dedication:

To my blood sisters MeeMee, Carmita, Lisa, and Cam.

# CHAPTER ONE: LEGACY

Dana stepped up to the jets of warm water shooting from the shower head. She closed her eyes and allowed her stress to wash away. She looked down at the drain and watched the blood rinse from her body. The pinkish mixture swirled and released to the pipes below. She used her hands to help the cleansing process, rubbing her arms and chest. Turning so her back was facing the water, she leaned her head back to saturate her long black hair. A sob crept from her lips followed by the flow of tears.

~

I feel sorry for my dear friend, Dana. The woman is beautiful for her age. At 60 she has the body of a 30 year old and only a few strands of gray hair. If only being pretty guaranteed happiness...

Her lovely appearance hides an ugly truth. One that makes my heart ache. There isn't enough water in the world to clean her dirty laundry.

Who am I? Well, let's just say I'm a very good friend of Dana's. No need to name names, to protect the innocent of course.

I'll be your eyes and ears behind the scenes as you navigate the Cooper family saga.

~

Genie looked around the dining room table at her siblings and shook her head. She hated every one of them. Always have. Always will. Just the mere mention of her brother and sisters made her blood boil. She rubbed her warm cheeks and blew out a frustrated breath.

Twin, Henn, and Sparkle laughed and chatted among one another as they waited for their mother to arrive. She called them to the family estate to make some emergency announcement.

Drama queen, Genie said to herself and sat there silently. She was not about to waste a breath entertaining these idiots.

Dana was the person Genie despised most in the world. She was less than human in her eyes. Nothing more than an egg donor. She patted her itchy wig and rolled her eyes at her brother Henry Junior whom everybody called Henn. He was telling one of his regular stories about some random ratchet hoe he smashed that nobody wanted to hear. His topic of conversation was another thing added to the list of reasons why she loathed him.

Genie's face was a puzzle consisting of caramel and ivory colored pieces. An evil expression graced it like a twisted Mona Lisa. Dana's oldest daughter was a unique beauty because she'd been blessed with vitiligo. Whispers among the community said that she was the prettiest of the Cooper sisters despite her skin condition. She loved how jealous it made them and her mother.

"Where is Honey," she asked with an attitude.

"Damn, you just gon' interrupt my conversation like that," Henn said. "She's late as usual. We know you can't live without your precious baby sister. She'll be here, Genie don't worry your patchy little face."

Sparkle chimed in. "You know that incest shit is nasty, right? Sucking your sister's twat on the low."

Henn busted out laughing and reached across the cherry oak antique dining table for a fist pound. Sparkle chuckled along with him and gave him dap.

Helayana tried her best not to crack a smile. "Leave her alone, yall."

"Shut up, Twin! You always tryna protect some damn body," Sparkle snapped at her.

Helayna and Genie were nine months apart so the family nicknamed Helayna Twin since she was younger.

"I don't need her to protect me, fuck y'all. Honey will always be my favorite. Deal with it."

"You need to watch your mouth when your sitting at my dining room table, Genie." Their mother walked up without them noticing and she was not happy. "Everybody at this table is well over 21 but y'all steady bickering like kids." Dana sauntered over and took her seat at the head of the table. The scent of her perfume lingered as she passed each of her children dressed in a silk gown with matching robe. She folded her satin gloved hands on the table in front of her. She, too, had vitiligo but it only affected her hands.

Genie waved her hand unbothered. "Whatever. What's the emergency, Dana?"

"You're father's on his way down. As soon as he's here we'll get started." She looked around a frowned. "Where's Honey?"

Honey sat naked kneeling in front of Jaylen as he stroked his throbbing penis. She threw her head back and opened her mouth wide. A few seconds later, Jaylen grabbed her by the hair and released his load for her to taste. When the last drop fell Honey swallowed it all and licked her lips.

Jaylen collapsed on the bed breathing heavily. "You the coldest..."

"Yeah, whatever." Honey giggled and stood up. "I gotta go." Her plump, curvy frame was glistening with sweat as she gathered up her clothes that were thrown around the room.

~

Her smooth complexion matches her birth name. She may not be slim but Honey is bad chick in every way possible. Beauty, brains, and bankroll all wrapped in an amazing personality. I've tried to get my daughters to hang with her more so some of her aura could rub off on 'em, but them heffas too busy chasing niggas in the street to do the right thing.

~

"Why don't you stay? Come on, Honey, please. Spend the night with me for once. A nigga be lonely in this big ass house by his self all the time." Jaylen, better known to the streets as Jay Bandz, had been living in his house for two months now. He bought it with the advance money from his record deal with Interscope Records. With the recent success of Machine Gun Kelly, Jay knew he was going to be the next one to blow out of Cleveland.

"We haven't been kicking it long enough for that yet." She pulled out her cellphone to find that it was dead. She unplugged Jay's iPhone and plugged hers up. A few seconds later is started to power on.

Jay threw up his hands. "Oh my God, man! Are you serious? It's been like a month now."

"I need a shower bad after all we just did so the sooner I can get home the better." She pulled her panties up over her pear shaped behind.

"I got water! Take a shower here and watch a movie with me."

"It's late, Jay."

"What's the difference between spending the night and staying 'til 3:00 in the morning?"

"Where I wake up at." Honey's cellphone buzzed and her voicemail icon popped up. All too eager to end the conversation she picked it up to check her messages.

"Can you put the phone down and talk to me please?"

"Shhh..." Honey put up her finger as she listened to the message of her mother telling her to come to the house immediately for an emergency family meeting.

"Are you serious right now? I'm trying to tell you how I feel and you play me like that?" Jay folded his arms and shook his head at her.

Honey tapped End and picked up the pace. "That was my mother. I gotta go, it's an emergency." She put the rest of her clothes on and grabbed her purse. "I'll spend the night next time, I promise. I gotta see what's up with my mom."

Jay got up from the bed and sighed. "I understand. Go handle your business. Just call me and let me know you're alright." He kissed Honey on the forehead before she rushed out the door.

The Cooper family sat at the dining room table in silence as they waited for Honey, the youngest of the five siblings, to arrive. Once their father Henry Sr. joined them at the table the energy in the room changed. His scandalous actions as of late put him in an awkward position in the family and everyone had mixed emotions when it came to him.

Dana locked eyes with her husband. His salt and pepper dreadlocks were tied back in a low ponytail the way she liked. He smiled at her but she didn't smile back. She gave him a nod and placed a hand on his. Their love was a complicated one that spanned thirty five years.

Genie looked her mother over carefully for signs of illness. She had concern written all over her face but that was about it. She can't be sick, Genie concluded.

Dana was aging very gracefully. She was the product of a black mother and Native American father. She kept her long, black hair up in a braided bun and was always dressed as if she was competing for best dressed in the church. Fly two-piece suits with Chanel heels were her signature look. Tonight though, Dana was at home and relaxed. Her hair was down and she wasn't wearing any makeup.

The tension in the room was eating Genie up inside. "Dana, why we gotta keep waiting for Honey?"

"I keep calling and her phone is going straight to voicemail. Just tell us. We can fill her in when she get here," Sparkle said and tossed her phone on the table.

Dana sighed "Call her again. If she don't answer then... Just call her."

Sparkle dialed her younger sister one last time. It rolled over to voicemail. She tapped the red button on the screen to hang up. "Go ahead, Ma. I got the voicemail again."

Dana pulled a rose from the large bouquet in the crystal vase before her. She put the pink petals to her nose and inhaled the sweet smell. "You know why I like to keep fresh roses in every room of the house?"

"Not really," Henry said. "You've just always loved flowers."

"That's one reason. But I have a more symbolic reason."

Genie rolled her eyes. "Can you just say it! No need to try to sugarcoat the shit. We're all grown here remember?"

Dana shot a look in reply. She wanted to reach for the small knife she kept tucked in the garter belt on her thigh but she was on a peaceful mission. Her daughter's mean streak was not about to take her out of her hookup.

"What's wrong with you," Henry asked disappointed in Genie's actions.

"It's late. We're all tired so we're cranky. Let's just calm down and get to the bottom of this so we can go home and get back in the bed." Twin looked at her mom. "Ignore her, Ma. Finish what you were saying." Once again she played referee.

"The reason I put roses in every room was because they represent the many sides of us. Roses have thorns that can prick you and draw blood. But they're also one of the best expressions of love of all time. Every time I see a rose It reminds me that I'm human and I make mistakes like everybody else. I want you guys to keep up that tradition from now on. Even when I'm not around I want you to keep roses in every room of the mansion and remember to embrace both your bright, and dark sides." Dana gasped and clutched her chest as she fought the urge to cry.

"Gone," Henn asked. "Ma, what's wrong?" He was really protective over the women in his family especially his mother. His sisters believed that the spoiled, only boy child only cared about himself. You would think his name was Selfish he'd been called that so much over the years.

"The reason I called you all here was because-"

Dana was interrupted by the chime of the security system alerting that someone let themselves in the manor.

"Ma! Daddy!" Honey's voice was consumed by panic as she rushed inside.

"We're in the dining room," Dana called out to her.

"I'm so sorry, Ma. I got here as soon as I could. I was working late on some stuff and fell asleep. I didn't even realize my phone died until I woke up to go to the bathroom." Honey waved at her siblings and went over to her parents. She kissed her mother on the cheek then her father. "Sorry, y'all." She sat down next to Genie. "What's the emergency?"

"She was about to tell us when you finally walked in," Sparkle snapped.

Honey ignored her. "Anyway, Ma. What's going on?"

Tears filled Dana's eyes and her lips started to quiver.

Everyone including Henry got anxious. "Hey now, I thought you said this news wasn't gonna be that bad."

"I know..." She blinked and released the tears that formed in the corners of her eyes.

Genie pushed her chair back and stood up. "If you're going to sit here and cry I'm leaving. It can't be that much of an emergency if you don't want to talk to us about it."

"Sit your hateful ass down somewhere, Genie!" Sparkle pointed her crystal studded stiletto fingernail at her.

"I'm going to prison! I leave in six weeks! You happy now?!" Dana yelled in a way that nobody heard her do in many moons. "I got a year in Federal prison! That's the damn emergency! Now get out!" She got up and left the room sprinkling a trail of confusion behind her.

Henry stood up from his seat to address his children. "Y'all go on home and try to get some sleep. I'll get to the bottom of this and call you tomorrow."

# CHAPTER TWO: LOYALTY

An orange rising sun was Dana's not so friendly reminder that it was time to start a new day. The 3 a.m. meeting left everyone devastated and perplexed. Keeping the details of her situation from her family hurt them and she felt a tiny bit of guilt for it. She wished things didn't have to be this way but it was necessary so they would just have to understand.

She looked over at her husband's empty side of the bed. For the first time in three decades of marriage she didn't miss Henry. Her heart wasn't shattered into a million pieces. All that Dana ever knew was built around the love she had for Henry Cooper. Everything she was most proud of was either created with him or for him. Her beautiful family, her multimillion dollar beauty empire. Everything. To her that's what being a wife was all about. She believed that a woman should make her marriage and the love of her spouse a priority. Now that she was facing prison time alone, that love didn't seem to mean much.

Henry didn't get to the bottom of things like he promised his children. He asked no questions. He packed a suitcase and left the second he made it to their bedroom. Henry wanted to be there for her but he didn't know how to. He was a man of few words. Supportive and handsome. He set the perfect example for what a provider should be. Before he left, Henry told his wife that he wanted to take some time to process the news she'd given him. Dana knew better than that though. She shook her head as she stared out her bedroom window into the morning sky. Instead of staying home to help his wife with the scariest moment she ever experienced he looked for comfort in the arms of a high paid prostitute.

There was a light tap at the door. "Come in."

"Good morning, Mrs. Cooper. Would you like your bed made and some breakfast?"

"No thank you, Emma. As a matter of fact tell the staff that everyone can take the day off," she told her middled aged caucasian handmaiden.

Emma looked confused. "You sure, Mrs. Cooper? Is there something wrong?"

"I'm fine. I just need a day to be alone. Recharge my battery a little bit."

"I understand, ma'am. I'll notify the staff and check on you before I go."

"That's fine. Thanks, Emma."

"You're very welcome." Emma looked at Dana and waited for more. She could tell that something was weighing heavily on Dana's mind but her only response was a smile.

When Emma was gone Dana sat down in the large oak rocking chair she kept by her window. She slid on her glasses and picked up her Bible from the side table. She turned to her favorite book, Job and started reading. These were her go to scriptures when things get stressful for her. Job's undying faith through times of tragedy always put things in perspective for Dana.

A few sentences in Dana's telephone rang. She ignored it and put her attention back on her book. The caller eventually hung up but a few seconds later her phone started ringing again. She ignored it, too and continued reading.

"I don't know what your problem is but you need to get it together fast! You've always been a bitch but this?! I mean, this is just crazy! I swear to God you got ten minutes to call me back then I'm coming over there! No more hiding I'll be at your door!" Genie pressed end and threw her cellphone on the bed.

"Oh, my God I hate her," she screamed as she paced back and forth. "What type of mother just blurts out 'I'm going to jail' with no explanation or nothing?"

"Give her time, Genie. You gotta calm down," Honey said.

Genie ignored her comment. "What the fuck did she do? Huh?! What she do, Honey?!"

"I wish I could answer that. I'm just still in shock about it."

"She's unstable. That woman is incapable of running the salons. I have to do something."

Honey gave her sister a side eye. "Do something? Like what?"

"I don't know exactly but she won't be handling no Cooper business. I know that much!"

Honey studied her sister's face and recognized the stare in her eyes. "You're serious aren't you?"

"As a heart attack. She can't handle it anymore."

"I don't think that's a good idea."

"You mean to tell me you don't think Dana's lost it?"

"I think you should talk to Twin first. She's-"

"Fuck Twin. She's so fucking soft..." Genie squeezed her eyes shut and massaged her temples.

"You need to think about what you're saying."

Genie looked up at the ceiling. "Why would she just drop this on us like this?"

Honey shrugged her shoulders. "I don't know but that's not important right now. What we need to be focused on is how we can support her. Genie, think about how she's feeling."

"Ugh!" Genie threw her hands up in frustration and plopped down on the bed next to her sister. She let out a deep sigh. "How can we support somebody who won't even answer our damn phone calls?" Suddenly her voice was low and childlike. She looked over at Honey and searched her eyes for an answer.

Honey was caught off guard at Genie's sudden vulnerability so it took her a few seconds to respond. "I guess we just pray for her until she does."

To Honey's surprise Genie bowed her head and extended her hands to her. Honey slowly reached out and took them. They closed their eyes and Honey prayed. "Father, I come to you asking that you protect my family. I pray that you open mom's heart so she can talk to us..."

As Honey prayed Genie got more and more overwhelmed. Emotions that she'd been keeping buried for years were bubbling to the surface. Love, sadness, fear. All of those were erased from her spirit when she was a little girl. Her mother's concerned face entered her mind then she pictured her snow white hands that she kept covered at all times. The vitiligo that she passed on to Genie should have brought them together with a special bond, but nothing could dissolve the hate Genie held on to. Still, with all that Dana put Genie through over the years there was something that made her heart ache for her mother.

Honey went on to say, "We may not be perfect, Lord but we're yours. So please, please help us."

"Please," Genie said. Moisture formed in the tear ducts of her eyes. "Amen."

Honey's eyes jumped open at the sound of her sniffles. "Oh my God! Genie, are you crying? Girl, I ain't never seen you cry before." She dropped hands and rubbed Genie's back.

"I don't know what's going on with me. This shit with Dana is driving me crazy," she sobbed.

"Aw, Genie... Genie, Ma gon' be alright."

"I'm so pissed right now!"

Honey gave her sister's back one last rub then got up from the bed. "Let me get you some tissue."

Genie jumped up and got in Honey's face. "I don't need you to get nothing for me! Get out!" She shoved Honey with every bit of strength within her.

Honey fell backwards against the wall. "What the hell, Genie!"

Genie grabbed Honey by the throat with one hand and a fist full of her hair in the other. She squeezed Honey's throat cutting off her airway. "If you tell anybody you saw me cry today the whole world will know about what happened in Detroit. You understand?"

Honey who was paralyzed in shock, nodded as best she could while fighting to breathe.

Genie sustained her grip. "You're my baby sister and you know how much I love you, but I won't turn soft for nobody. Ever." She slowly released Honey. "Now get out."

Honey snatched up her purse and keys from the bed and ran out of the house. The baby Cooper sister almost fainted when she ran into her mother in passing. She couldn't believe how fast God answered her prayers.

"Daddy said he would get back to us. What happened with that?" Honey gave her mother the third degree.

"He left." She gave her daughter "the look".

Honey knew what that meant. "Fuck that, we need him here. He's the only one that can talk to Genie right now. She's messed up, Ma."

Dana gave Honey a tight hug. "I got it, baby. I'm going to straighten this out."

"I can't just sit back and do nothing, Ma. I'm going to get his ass and bring him home!"

Dana spoke softly. "Leave it alone." She kissed her on the cheek and let her go.

Honey got in her car and sped off. She tried her best not to panic as she drove to her father's favorite place to take his hoes, one the family's rental properties in Parma. He kept it vacant for his personal entertainment. "We gotta focus on the Coopers," she said aloud to herself. "He'll understand..."

Genie stormed into her master bathroom and got her Feel Good Pills from the medicine cabinet. She went downstairs to the kitchen of her large ranch style home. As she filled a glass with water from the sink her doorbell rang. Genie placed the glass on the counter and headed for the door. She swung it open ready to commit a homicide by tongue on the uninvited guest. A gasp escaped her lips at the sight of Dana.

"Hey, Genie," she said cheerfully. Dana's hair was pulled back in her trademark chignon. There was little makeup on her face. Just some mascara and a rosy pink gloss. Her flawless skin was the star of the show today. She was dressed in a pretty floral dress with pink pumps to match. Sunglasses with gold circular frames shielded her eyes from the sun. In one hand she held a brown paper bag from The Olive Garden and she had a bouquet of pink roses in the other.

"I guess I'll invite myself in," she said and stepped inside.

Genie closed the door behind her. "I guess so..."

Dana sat the bag down and handed Genie the flowers. "For you, my darling." She took off her shades and kept the beaming smile on her face.

"Thanks." Genie gave her a fake smile in return.

"I got your message," Dana said. She looked Genie dead in the eye. Suddenly her smile wasn't so friendly.

For twenty minutes Honey drove in silence on the journey to her destination. She hit the brake and slowed down to exit the highway. She noticed a silver Chevy Tahoe in her rearview exit the freeway right behind her. She turned left and the truck turned left.

"Are they following me," she asked herself.

She continued on her way and the truck turned off. Honey let out a sigh. She was extremely paranoid. Having the Feds in your business will do that.

Honey pulled into the circular driveway in front of the property then popped the trunk and got out. She pulled out her brown leather shoulder holster and slipped it on then got her pistol from its case. Honey looked the gun over and smiled. She had a beautiful love affair with pistols. It was such a pretty piece of hardware. The gold accents and Mother of Pearl grip matched perfectly with Honey's personality and style. "Too bad such a pretty gun is about to start something so ugly."

Honey tucked the gun in the holster and put on a denim blazer to cover it. After slamming the trunk of the car closed Honey said a prayer and approached the front door.

# CHAPTER THREE: WARNING

Dana looked Genie up and down. Her daughter was still in her night clothes with no makeup and disheveled hair. She admired Genie's perfect skin free of blemishes. The symmetric pattern on her face really stood out in a lovely way.

"You look good," she said with a smirk.

"Whatever." Genie rolled her eyes. "What you bring me?" She picked up the brown paper Olive Garden bag and headed for the dining room.

"All of your favorites... And I made sure to get extra cheese for the salad."

Dana followed behind Genie closely. She noticed her red, puffy eyes proving that her solid armor was finally being penetrated.

Her pending stint in federal prison started in six weeks and counting. The image of herself in a small, dark cell wearing flip flops and prison blues made her sick to her stomach. She had to remain strong during this time if her family was going to survive all they were about to be subject to. Genie and her tears were a necessary casualty of war and they could not distract Dana from what she needed to do.

Genie sat plates and silverware on the table for both of them and began to make her plates. Dana sat and watched her. "Relax, Genie. This conversation was going to go well."

"Yeah, I know because there won't be one."

"Come on now... Let's just be grown women and talk. I'm not upset about anything you said."

Genie sat down and put a fork full of salad in her mouth. She chewed and swallowed before responding. "I really just wanna know what you could have possibly done to land your ass in the feds."

"Well... The official charges are money laundering, forgery, and falsifying documents. I was able to make a good deal quickly and quietly. I was blessed." Dana folded her hands, which were covered with white satin gloves and placed them in her lap. "I couldn't tell you all until I took care of it. I didn't want you stressing about it."

Genie dropped her fork. "You been doing illegal shit in the business, Dana?"

"Oh, absolutely not! Our business is legit. Everything's fine.

"Then where did all them charges come from? What's going on?"

Dana smiled. "That's not important. The less you know, the better. For now."

"Please don't be on that trash, Ma." Genie slapped her hand over her mouth. Oh, my God. What did I just say, she thought.

Dana held back her shock. She kept the same smile on her face. "It's okay... I know it's been a million years since you've called me anything but Dana."

"Yeah... It's time for you to go."

"No it isn't We haven't settled things yet."

"Ain't shit to settle. Bye, Dana."

Dana shook her head and laughed softly. That was the only way she could harbor her anger at Genie's disrespect. "I promise to make it quick. I got in trouble and now I have to ensure that things run smoothly while I'm away."

Genie cut her off. "I'm one step ahead of you. It would be my pleasure to run things while you're gone."

Dana's eyes turned into slits. She leaned forward and folded her hands on the dining room table. "You've always been a daddy's girl. We never really connected... Still, you're my first born and I love you very much. Mentally you're the strongest of all my children, but you're the weakest emotionally. So trust me when I tell you I didn't come here to ask you to run my business. I came to warn you. Times are going to get worse before they get better. So prepare wisely... And tread light." Dana got up and smoothed her dress with her concealed hands then grabbed her purse.

Genie couldn't believe Dana's boldness. "Came to warn me?"

"Yes, as a courtesy. It's the least I can do. Bye now," she said cheerfully. "I'll be in touch. And put those flowers in some water." She put on her shades and left the room.

~

Honey was the one that was most devastated when Henry was first exposed as a cheater but it was her mother that broke the news to her. Those damn family meetings were the devil. When Honey was sill a preteen Dana scheduled one to tell her children that their father gave her an STD due to excessive cheating. If I was one of the Cooper kids I wouldn't come to them anymore. You can give me the bad news over the phone or something.

The worse part of it all was that the streets were talking and Honey heard them loud and clear. Henry's new girlfriend was Candace, a former classmate of hers. They both knew this from the beginning and chose to pursue a relationship anyway. Henry was and always would be an attention whore with a preference for young women with fair skin.

That will be his downfall.

~

When Dana told Honey that their father left she knew exactly where he was and that he wasn't there alone. Candace would be there with him performing her duties as cum dumpster. Honey grew nervous at how rapidly her heart began to race as she stepped up to the front door. She took a deep breath before letting herself in.

Marvin Gaye's What's Gong On was playing on the sound system speakers throughout the house. Dana's fetish for fresh flowers was present throughout the home filling it with a succulent smell.

Honey made her way up the spiral staircase and tip toed to the master bedroom. The door was cracked. She pulled her gun from the holster and stepped inside the room.

The sight of Candace holding on to the back of a chair while Henry stroked her from behind made Honey's blood boil. They were covered in some sticky substance similar to syrup moaning like two wild animals.

Honey drew back and kicked the door open with a vengeance. "WHAT THE FUCK IS GOING ON," she screamed startling the couple. She pointed her pistol at them.

Henry pulled himself away from Candace and grabbed the remote. They sounded like velcro pulling apart. He turned off the music and covered his private area. He shook his sticky hand rapidly to drop the remote.

"Oh my God! I'm so sorry!" Candace held up her hands in surrender.

"Shut up," Henry snapped. "Put that gun down, Honey!"

"No! You shut the fuck up!"

"Let me just talk to you about this," Henry pleaded.

"Go in the bathroom and lock the door," Honey said to Candace. She ran there without protest and slammed the door behind her.

When Honey heard the click of the lock she looked at her father in disgust. "Put some fucking clothes on."

Henry went to the bed and pulled on his boxer shorts. They stuck to his skin like wet paper. Honey stepped closer to her father keeping the gun aimed at him. She spoke slowly through gritted teeth.

"My mother, your wife, just found out she's going to prison for a year. Instead of you stepping up and being a fucking husband, you're being a pervert on some kinky shit with a hoe! This shit gotta stop!"

Honey took another step closer. Her chest heaved up and down as she lost control of her tears and started crying. Her hands trembled as she cocked the gun and put her finger firmly on the trigger. She stared her father in his eyes as water dripped from her face.

Henry's eyes widened. "Baby girl... Honey, no... Please." He put his hand out in front of him as a shield.

"I'm sorry, daddy. You gotta go home..." Honey closed her eyes and pulled the trigger.

# CHAPTER FOUR: LIFE OR DEATH

~

Honey grew up around shooting. The men in her family turned Cleveland into Afghanistan every New Year's Eve, and pistol play on a sunny afternoon was what opposing cliques considered recess. Honey figured this was what sparked her secret love affair with guns. Her .40 caliber pistol with gold accents and mother of pearl grips was obvious proof of her admiration. But pretty girl and pretty gun aside, this was Honey's first time ever shooting at someone. Her father was lucky that she missed.

~

To her surprise the sound of actually discharging a weapon was deafening. The ringing in Honey's ears muffled Henry's screams. Her father was now on his knees with his hands clasped tightly together begging his daughter for his life.

"I'm your father! Your daddy! I gave you life, baby! Don't do me like this!"

The sticky substance that covered his body made his legs stick to the carpet.

"I... I didn't w-wanna kill you," she said sobbing. "Just... Just come h-home! Ma needs you!"

"I will, I swear! Honey, baby please! Come on now, let Candace go and put that damn gun down! You can't do this!"

"Who?" Honey almost forgot about Henry's prostitute who was locked away in the bathroom. "Oh, fuck her right now!"

Honey shot at him. Once again she missed putting a bullet through the floor. She heard Candace scream through the bathroom door, which was the only thing separating them.

Henry's attempt at dodging the bullet was pitiful thanks to the honey-like lubricant that he wore. He couldn't help it anymore and the grown man started crying like a newborn. "God, no! I'll pack up and leave right now if you want me to! Please, Honey! Please..."

Barbie didn't realize how much she missed the hood until today. It was beautiful outside so the residents were out in full effect. A basketball game was in full swing in the middle of the street and you could smell barbecue in the air. Stepping out of her new Jaguar, the chocolate beauty was glad that she fought the urge to turn around and abandon her homecoming. Everyone on the block showered her with hugs and compliments. She was back on the street where she grew up to visit one of her closest friends, Ebony. Her new life had been more than good to her but Barbie needed to see her friend badly.

She enlisted one of the block boys to carry her bags up to the door. She tipped him $10 as a thank you and rang the doorbell.

"Tell your dude to come hoop wit us one day," the boy said with a smile.

"I will. I promise."

"Bet." He gave Barbie a pound and ran off to rejoin his basketball game.

Always impatient, Barbie rang the doorbell again. Instead of a chime, Barbie heard the clicking noise that the broken bell always made. Moments later Ebony answered.

"My bitch here!" Ebony squealed and grabbed Barbie in a tight hug.

"The baddest bitch you know," Barbie said returning the hug. The ladies went inside with Ebony leading the way.

Barbie swatted away a gnat and tried her best to hold in her discomfort. Small, dirty houses with mismatch furniture and bed sheets for curtains were no longer suitable for her, but she was still the same chick from the South side of Cleveland so her instincts kicked in and she quickly got over it. "Still got that raggedy ass doorbell I see. You drink brown liquor right," she said as she approached the coffee table.

"I drink everything you got. You already know I'm tryna get busted!" Ebony watched with excitement as Barbie lined up bottles of top shelf liquor across the coffee table.

~

Ebony was only 32 years-old but the hard life she lived made her features appear more mature. All of the drinking, drugs, and jail time haven't been easy on her. Barbie also noticed that her bestie gained weight. She had to be about 180 pounds now. Barbie laughed on the inside. She was the chubby one of the two when they were younger. Water, crackers, and tens of thousands on plastic surgery made her look like her namesake currently. A real life Barbie. It felt good to look better than Ebony for a change.

~

"I know how you get down. It ain't been that long since I moved out the hood. It's been what? Three, three and a half years?"

"Hell yeah. Shit, it seem like it's been longer than that. But I would stay away too if I was you. I mean, who get engaged to a NBA player and stays around here?" She pulled up the front of her cheap sundress to cover her cleavage that was spilling out.

Barbie opened a bottle of Remy Martin. "I know I didn't. Who cares about the rest of these hoes. Go grab some cups."

Two hours was more than enough time for the BFFs to get reacquainted with each other over cocktails. Barbie and Ebony drank half the fifth of Remy that they started on and they were now working on a bottle of Patron. With drinks in hand the women sang and danced sloppily to the blasting rap music.

"I missed you, girl" Ebony said and grabbed Barbie in a hug spilling liquor on the back of her shirt.

Barbie cringed but smiled. "I missed you, too."

"I wish I could still dance, girl. I miss that strip club money!" Ebony rolled her belly seductively.

"I don't miss that shit at all. All them irritating ass niggas and bum ass bitches. Dancing right here in the living room is cool with me," Barbie said and joined in the twerking.

Ebony, the more drunk of the two, tried a move that spun her too fast causing her to crash into the television. The 42-inch TV fell to the floor taking Ebony with it. Her boobs flew out of her dress one way and the glass in her hand went the other way. It hit against the wall and broke into pieces.

"Oh, my God! You okay, Eb?" Barbie rushed to her friend's side and helped her sit up.

"I'm fucked up..." Ebony slurred. She reached up to rub her head and Barbie saw a long scratch on her leg.

"Ooh, Eb you cut yourself. Get up." Barbie helped her stand and held her up as they wobbled over to the dining room table. Ebony sat down and Barbie went to the kitchen sink. She wet a towel and handed it to Ebony who began to wipe the blood from her leg. "My sister gon' flip when she see this shit. She just finished paying Rent-A-Center for that TV."

"You hurt yourself so fuck that TV. I'll buy her another one," Barbie said.

Ebony put the towel down and examined her wound. She winced when she touched it. "Barbie, can you do me a favor and get the peroxide and some tissue out my bathroom?"

"Yeah, girl. I'll be right back." Barbie disappeared from the room. Ebony took a drink of Remy from the bottle while she waited.

After getting what Ebony requested Barbie appeared behind her causing her to jumped out of her skin.

"Ooh! Girl, you scared me."

Barbie chuckled. "Here, with your scary ass." She placed the peroxide and toilet paper on the table in front of her. She stood there behind Ebony and watched her.

"I'ma have to get some cocoa butter for this," Ebony mumbled as she screwed the top off the brown peroxide bottle. The top slipped through her drunken hands and dropped to the floor. She bent down to pick it up.

"You got it?" Barbie asked her as she sat back up.

"Yeah I got it."

"Good," Barbie replied. And with that she grabbed Ebony by the forehead and plunged a syringe into her neck. She injected the clear liquid and it took effect immediately making Ebony's body go limp. Barbie caught her before she was able to fall unconscious out of her chair and carefully laid her on the floor. She kneeled down and kissed her friend on the lips. She looked her over for a moment taking in her features.

"I've been meaning to tell you, girl. You're not as pretty as you used to be."

She stood and grabbed Ebony under each arm from behind. Moving backwards, Barbie swiftly pulled Ebony towards the stairs. The fit, average sized woman pulled the dead weight with ease as if she'd done this before...

~

Genie paced back and forth across her bedroom floor still fuming from her cluster fuck of a day. She broke the moral code that she's lived by since she was eight years old. She showed emotion for her mother. Making matters worse her sister was there to witness it. Dana and her fuck up was making her vulnerable. If you mixed that with the anger and disgust that ran through her veins it made a dangerous woman. Genie would be more hazardous to herself than anything and there was no way she could destroy her own life. Not when she had so much on the table.

~

"That old bitch called me weak... My sister saw me cry..." Those thoughts replayed over and over in her head. She paced faster as the voices got louder.

"Fuck them! Fuck them!" Genie screamed in response to the voices within.

She took her bottle of Feel Good pills from the pocket of her robe. She opened the bottle and popped three in her mouth. She swallowed hard several times to get them down without water. As soon as the pills were in her belly the voices got softer. Genie inhaled through her nose and exhaled slowly through her mouth. She went over to her bed and sat down. Her uniform lace front wig was itching her to death so she snatched it off revealing a horrible head of sores and patches of hair. She developed a nasty habit of pulling out her hair and scratching lesions into her scalp. Once they started to heal she picked at the scabs. She put the wig on her bedside table then lay down and closed her eyes. A wicked smile crept across her face. Genie picked at her sore scalp and pulled out strands of hair as she thought wonderful thoughts of the hell she had planned for her family.

# CHAPTER FIVE: PREY FOR HER

Barbie pulled Ebony into her bedroom and onto the bed. It was just a mattress on the floor in the corner of the room so it wasn't that hard to do. She positioned Ebony on her stomach so it appeared as if she simply passed out drunk. The Propofol Barbie injected in her friend would have her knocked out for a while giving her more than enough time to find what she needed and get out of Ebony's house with no fanfare...

~

The woman you see hasn't always been such a deceitful monster. Barbie's demonic ways have been carefully developed over time. Her birth was the result of a young woman being obsessed with a man who never truly loved her. Barbie's father, Henry Cooper, never publicly acknowledged her or her sister. Because he never accepted her, her mother never did either. If your own parents left you for dead when you were just a little girl how would you survive?

~

Barbie began going to work searching Ebony's room. She rummaged through all of the drawers and containers on the dresser one by one. Empty handed, she moved on to the closet. Barbie dumped the hamper out and ruffled through the clothes. She pounded the floor in frustration when she inspected the last article of dirty attire and finds nothing.

"Damn it!" Barbie got up and stormed over to Ebony. She kicked her in the back of the head. "Where the fuck is it," she screamed. Of course there was no response from the unconscious lady. Barbie kicked her again for the hell of it.

She went back to the closet and pulled a few shoeboxes from the shelf inside. The first one held a pair of cheap looking, worn heels.

"She might as well throw these away," Barbie muttered and threw the box to the side. When she opened the next box she found a bunch of letters from Ebony's boyfriend, Case. She spent over an hour crying to Barbie about how much she loved him yet she couldn't manage to quit fucking every man that showed her a little attention.

When Barbie opened the third box her eyes lit up and she smiled a wide toothy grin. Inside the box were a few small wads of money, cotton balls, alcohol pads, rubber gloves, some syringes and a purple velvet Crown Royal bag. Barbie quickly pulled the bag open and looked inside. She gazed over at her oblivious comrade and squeaked with excitement.

"Thanks, Eb! You came through for a bitch," Barbie said as she pulled out the small glass bottle of Botox...

~

Barbie and Ebony became best friends through the hustle. Barbie was a booster and Ebony knew plenty of people with illegal money to blow. Her mother was a popular hustler in the area who turned their house into an after hour spot complete with liquor, an array of drugs, and off duty strippers. One night, Ebony and Barbie were introduced and they started making money together. Once Barbie met her fiance' he became her new hustle so she hasn't boosted in quite a while. Through it all the besties managed to maintain their sisterhood. Well, up until recently...

~

Barbie was living out in the suburbs with her rich man Felipe Hones, Power Forward for the Cleveland Cavaliers, but she still kept her ears to the street and her mind on her own money. Thanks to gossip from jealous females and Facebook, Barbie became privy to all of the new money Ebony was making doing Botox injections with her sister Charity. Her job as a medical assistant was how Charity was able to befriend a female doctor who got them the Botox and kept them booked with clients from her referrals. They give her a cut in exchange. As soon as Barbie saw the pictures from their last Botox party on Instagram of wealthy looking women getting shot up in a lavish home she knew she had to take her piece of the pie.

Barbie placed the Botox back in the bag with the others and stood to leave. She left Ebony's room glad that she had what she needed to bring in some more income to support her new arrivals. Barbie made her way down the hall to the stairs.

"Ebony!"

Barbie halted when she heard the sound of Charity's voice.

"Fuck," Barbie whispered.

"Ebony! Eb! What the fuck happened to my TV," Charity yelled.

Barbie heard Charity's footsteps crunch on the carpet as she stepped around examining the shattered pieces from the TV screen.

What the fuck is she doing here, Barbie thought to herself. She rubbed her forehead with hopes of bringing a good idea to the surface.

She pondered on how she could get out of the house without Charity seeing her. She quickly dismissed the thought knowing there was no way that would happen.

"EBONY," Charity screamed at the top of her lungs. Her anger was rising. Her footsteps got closer and closer to the stairs.

With no other options, Barbie decided that she had to face Charity. She searched her body for a place to hide the purple bag she'd stolen. She tucked it in her bra but her breasts were way too small to hide it. Sticking it in her pants would yield the same result. So Barbie simply held the bag behind her back and reluctantly went down the steps to greet Charity. To Barbie's surprise Charity was relieved to see her. She grabbed Barbie in a tight hug and Barbie hugged her back with her free arm praying Charity wouldn't notice what she was hiding.

"Oh, my God. Barbie," Charity said with angst. "What happened? Where's Eb?"

"She's upstairs passed out. We turned up a little too much." Ebony did her best to seem more drunk than she actually was.

Charity shook her head. "Her drunk ass knocked this TV over didn't she?"

"Yeah. She's good though. I just helped her get in the bed." Barbie went over to the couch and picked up her purse. "I'm done myself now. Mixing Remy and Patron got me over here feeling like I'm about to pass out. It was good seeing you," Barbie moved towards the door. "Tell Eb to call me."

"Is that Ebony's bag," Charity asked.

"Huh?" Barbie stuffed the bag in her purse and played dumb.

"Where'd you get that from?" Charity pointed at the Badgley Mischka Hobo bag that hung from Barbie's arm.

"Girl, I don't know where Felipe got this bag from. Saks I think."

"Not that, Barbie. I'm talking about what's inside the purse."

"Oh, I got some ladies that wanna get some Botox. Eb just hooked me up."

"How? I thought she was so drunk she passed out..."  
Barbie clutched her bag. "This was before that. You can ask her when she wake up."

"I'm about to go ask her now."

"Damn, Charity! Let the girl sleep. I live in a million dollar house I ain't gotta steal from nobody."

"Who said anything about stealing?" Charity put her hands on her hips.

"Shit, it sounds like you're accusing me asking all these damn questions. It's like you don't believe me or something."

Charity glared at Barbie with suspicion and stepped close to her. "I don't give a fuck where you live, what you drive, or none of that shit. I know my sister ain't just give you nothing. Now give it here."

"You don't know shit," Barbie snapped. "Like I said talk to Ebony when she's sober." Barbie pulled her bag on her shoulder and turned to leave. Charity reached out and grabbed the back of Barbie's shirt.

"Get off me!" Barbie turned and punched Charity in the nose. Charity yelped like an injured dog and grabbed her nose. Blood came rushing out splattering all over her face and hands.

Once again Barbie made her move for the door. This time Charity jumped on her back and tackled her to the floor.

"I'ma kill you! I'ma kill you bitch," Charity screamed as she and Barbie tussled on the floor.

"Let's see who kills who first," Barbie shot back. With one swift move she flipped Charity on her back and climbed on top of her. She grabbed Charity's neck with both hands and squeezed tight as she could. Charity kicked and struggled to get away. She clawed at Barbie's hands fighting for air.

Barbie got a kick out of the power she felt as she held Charity's life in her hands. She laughed in her face as her legs flopped around like fish out of water.

"What was that shit you was saying? You gon' kill who?" Barbie was so busy taunting Charity that she didn't notice her pick up a piece of the broken TV screen. Taking full advantage of the slip up she stabbed Barbie in the arm with it.

"Shit!" Barbie grabbed her arm in pain. She pulled out the thick piece of glass and blood started to trickle from the wound it left. She rubbed the blood with her fingers and licked it. She threw the piece of display aside and picked up a much bigger piece. She raised it over her head.

"No! No, Barbie," Charity pleaded.

Barbie just smirked then plunged the glass into Charity's shoulder.

"AAAAAAHHHHHH!" The dreadful scream that Charity let out made the hairs on the back of Barbie's neck stand up.

"Good luck using that arm again," Barbie said. She stood up leaving Charity on the floor writhing in pain. After grabbing her purse off the floor she ran out of the house to her car.

Wedges aren't exactly running shoes. She made it across the porch to the stairs but tripped due to her clunky heels and fell down them to the ground.

Barbie looked around in alarm. Charity was still inside and the street had cleared out. A few people sat on their front porches but the hood knew how to mind their business. She stood up to brush herself off and hurried to her vehicle. She snatched the door open and cursed herself for leaving it unlocked. The neighborhood respected her but not that much. If she was slipping they were going to take advantage. This time she was lucky.

The tires of Barbie's car screeched as she burned rubber away from Ebony's house. She sped off the road onto the main street interrupting oncoming traffic.

"Get the fuck out the way!" Her road rage kicked in, which caused her to scold her fellow drivers. Barbie dipped in and out of traffic from lane to lane without hesitation. The freeway wasn't far and she refused to let a red light or pedestrian stop her from getting there. Her plan was to breeze through the intersection up ahead no matter what color the light was. Everyone would have to watch out for her.

Cars whizzed by her as she got closer to the traffic signal when suddenly a white SUV pulled in front of her and blocked her path.

"SHIT!" Barbie slammed on the breaks. The tires halted but the car continued on towards the truck. She covered her face with her arms and braced herself for the collision, but the car stopped inches before crashing with the automobile.

She clutched the wheel tightly with both hands. "Fuck..."

Tap, tap, tap. Barbie looked to the side to find a pretty older woman at her window. She rolled it down.

"You alright," the woman asked.

Barbie's adrenaline was still pumping wildly and she struggled to catch her wind. "I-I guess I'm alright. Was that you who pulled out under the light like that?"

"Yes, that's me." She stuck her hand inside the window for a handshake. It was a summer day but the woman had on white satin gloves. "I'm your stepmother."

# CHAPTER SIX: DIRTY HANDS

~

You would think that Genie would be used to the reaction people had to her face by now, but with the way the world was moving she was becoming more of a side show. Dealing with the stares and whispers of people when they saw the pretty little black girl with the face like a painter's canvas was one thing. Now days Genie couldn't go to the grocery store without somebody pulling out their phone to take a picture. Kids these days will come up and ask you rude shit like "Don't you feel ugly with your face like that?"

Walking into her mother's salon today was nothing different...

Dana's Salon had been the place for Cleveland's elite women to come and get their hair and nails done since 1988. Dana started doing hair in her kitchen when she was fourteen to pay for an underground abortion. The kind where they used coat hangers and such to do the job. It was then that she realized that she had a talent for doing hair and painting nails. She met Henry while she was in beauty school. His business smarts from running a gambling house mixed with her passion for beauty gave birth to a powerhouse conglomerate.

And a lifetime of mess.

~

The naked eye could never see the sour nature Genie carried within. She was a pleasure to know and fun to be around with the outside world. She slid through the salon smiling and greeting patrons in a Stepford Wife like fashion. She played her role like a Tony award winning performer.

You couldn't help but be in a good mood when you entered Dana's. The sweet smell of lavender and vanilla mixed with the tranquil R&B crooning softly from the sound system took you in immediately. She bypassed the stations with marble countertops and Nubuck leather seats on her way to the back of the building, which led to the second floor office space.

"Hey, Genie." Tarra, one of the newer stylists, called out to greet her. She had a woman in her chair that Genie didn't recognize, nor did she care to. Her face was twisted in a perplexed look.

"Hi, Tarra. How were you?" Genie went over to them.

"I'm good, girl. Busy as usual. I've been getting a lot of new clients."

"I see. I had to come closer so miss lady here could get a better look." She smirked at the twenty something year old who in turn looked away embarrassed.

"No, Genie..." Tarra looked down at her patron and gave her a chastising look. "I don't think she's trying to be rude or anything."

The girl looked up and forced a smile. "I just never seen nobody with a face like yours before. I mean, on TV yeah, but never in person. You're like the girl off Top Model. You remember that season don't you, Tarra?"

"Yeah, she was real pretty."

Genie shook her head and laughed. "You ladies have a good one" she said and continued on her way.

She would have fucked with them a little more if she had the time. Fortunately for the ratchet wannabes Genie had more important business to handle. Her mother was taking a brief hiatus from work for the week leaving a small amount of time for her to gather ammunition. She wanted to take over her mother's business while she was in prison but after the conversation they had she changed her mind. She didn't want to just take over while she was away, she wanted to take over for good. Sure, Genie could let her emotions get the best of her sometimes but she was nowhere near the weak individual the her mother made her out to be and she wanted to prove that to her.

She made her way back to the frosted glass double doors and pushed them open. She took the steps two at a time to the floor above. Genie slipped past the vacant receptionist desk and went up to her mother's office door. It was locked.

"Fuck," she grumbled. "Tarra can remember to run that mouth but she couldn't remember to pick this lock like I paid her to." She turned and went back down the stairs. She bumped into Tarra halfway down.

"I know. I know, Genie. I'm sorry." She lifted her hands in surrender. The petite woman was scared of what her boss' daughter would do to punish her for not doing as she was told.

~

Tarra was one of the few people in the outside world that had a glimpse of what Genie Cooper was really like under that happy, charismatic mask. The 21 year old mother of two was fresh out of beauty school hoping to build an entitled life for her and her children. She clawed her way through hundreds of applicants to get her stylist job at Dana's. Dana caught her sabotaging the other girls by exuding over-confidence and filling their heads with doubt. Her devious ways and slick tongue was what drew Genie to her. Now, six months later, Tarra was her unofficial flunky snitching and doing all of her dirty work around the salon.

~

"I've been swamped with clients all day. And about my client, please don't be mad at me about her."

Genie rolled her eyes. "Just get the fuck up there and open that door!"

"Okay!" Tarra smiled a nervous grin and ran up the stairs past her to Dana's office. Genie followed closely behind fuming like a killer bee.

"This will only take a second." Tarra took a debit card from her back pocket and stuck it in the door. After jiggling it around a few times she pushed the entrance open. "See, no signs of a break in."

Genie scoffed at the young woman and pushed her out of the way as a thank you. She entered the office and slammed the door behind her.

"Whatever..." Tarra breathed a sigh of relief that her work for Genie was done for the moment then went back to her station to finish up her work on her client's hair. Her next assignment was to keep an eye out for Twin.

Not sure what she was looking for, Genie took a seat in the antique chair behind the modern desk with a glass top and silver legs. The white vase on the desk was always filled with custom colored roses. She took one out and twirled it in her fingers. The minimalistic office space didn't have the traditional drawers and file cabinets that one was used to seeing.

"Where does she keep her paperwork?" Genie stared at the black screen of her mother's iMac and rocked back and forth in the chair. Genie was COO of her fathers company H&D Restaurants, Inc. Home of his chain of H&D Barbecue restaurants. Dana's was her mother's business and she was never concerned with it. One thing that Dana and Genie had in common was how to separate their personal issues from the work.

The sparkle of an elegant letter opener caught Genie's eye from over on the book shelf so she went over to explore. In a small baby pink wicker basket was a few pieces of mail addressed to Dana. Genie recognized the name of the sender on one.

"Lexington Fields. You son of a bitch!"

The energy between Dana and Barbie was intense as they were chauffeured to Blue Point Grille restaurant for lunch. Barbie sat picking at the skin on her lips, a nervous habit she'd had since a kid. She was quiet the entire ride there trying to process what was happening to her. The unfortunate events in Barbie's life were starting to pile one on top of the other.

~

I never understood how Henry could walk around the streets comfortably knowing that he was shitting on his children. Typical nigga. Once you stop fucking with the mother you don't be bothered with your kids either.

Barbie and her sister Redd have always known who their father was even though he could be standing in the same room with either one of them and wouldn't know it. For years Barbie had imagined the day she would finally meet her long lost rich daddy and the family he cherished so much. Especially his very polished and well respected wife, Dana. Barbie's had many a dream about the fair skinned beauty being her real mother. She wanted to be wealthy, beautiful, and loved by all just like her.

As she got older those feelings got mixed with bitterness and resentment. Now all she wanted to do was infiltrate the picture perfect Cooper family dynamic so she could take all she and her sister deserved and destroy their legacy.

~

"Are you going to answer that or not?" Dana could tell that Barbie was nervous. The near car accident that happened between the two wasn't a coincidence at all. Barbie didn't have the slightest clue that her sly stepmother had been planning this visit for almost a year. Her life was about to change drastically and Dana hoped that she was ready for the challenge.

Dana's voice halted Barbie's stoic stare out the tinted limo window. Her cellphone was ringing and buzzing in her purse and she didn't even realize it. "Oh..."

She pulled her phone from her bag with her shaky hand and checked the screen. She rolled her almond shaped hazel eyes. It was her sister Redd calling.

Shit, she thought reminded of her prior responsibility. Barbie was supposed to be at home helping her younger sister and her four bad ass kids settle into their new temporary home with her and Felipe. After being evicted for the millionth time, Redd needed some place to stay until she could find a new spot. With every other bridge burned Barbie was the only person left that was willing to help her. And that was only because she felt bad for her nieces and nephews. Including the new one that was on the way.

"Yes, Redd."

"Where are you? I done got dropped off at the house and nobody's answering the door."

"What you mean? Felipe should be there." Barbie could hear the commotion from the kids in the background.

"Honesty and Essence, stop before I slap the shit out of y'all! Hello? Yeah, well he ain't here from what I can tell. I rung the bell four or five times already."

"Let me call and see where he is. I'll call you right back."

"Wait! Never mind. Here he is now. He's pulling up don't worry about it."

"Cool. Tell him to call me please."

"You alright, sis?" Redd could sense that something wasn't right.

She glanced over at Dana who was watching her intently and holding on to her every word. It made her uncomfortable. Barbie didn't feel safe. She wanted to tell her sister about the accident but something begged her not to. "I'm... I'm fine. Just a little tired. I was up early this morning."

"You sure?"

No, she screamed in her mind. "Yeah, Redd. I'm good. I'll be home in a little bit. Tell Felipe to call me asap," she said and hangs up before her sister could question her any further.

"Is everything alright?" Dana's voice almost sounded like she was genuinely concerned.

"Not that it's any of your business but yeah, everything's alright."

The door Barbie was leaning on came flying open thanks to the driver and she damn near toppled out of the limo.

Dana had a chuckle. "Let's go inside and give you some time to calm down."

Barbie looked nervously around the mostly empty restaurant as the waitress filled her and Dana's blue glasses with water. She picked her lips while her thoughts painted pictures of the messy robbery gone wrong at her friend Ebony's house. She knew that Charity had called the police by now and soon they would be searching for her.

"Give us a minute, please. We're not quite ready to order," Dana said dismissing Hannah, her favorite waitress.

"Yes, Mrs. Cooper. I'll be back shortly."

As soon as Hannah was out of ear shot Barbie was the first to speak. "You could have just called me you know. Making me almost crash my car was completely uncalled for." She used proper speech and tone to hide the inferiority she felt sitting across from the powerful woman.

"You were driving like a maniac. How else was I supposed to stop you?"

"Like I said, call me. I know you have my number. We didn't just run into each other by chance."

Dana took a sip of her water and smiled. "We didn't. That you're right about. But your little accident wasn't my fault."

"What do you want, Miss Cooper?"

"It's Mrs. Cooper. And I want to give you the opportunity of a lifetime. I'm here to give you the chance to become a legend."

"A legend?" The ding of Barbie's text tone rang out so she grabbed her phone from her bag.

"I never liked the agreement that your mother and father made. Treating you girls like you were invisible wasn't right but there wasn't anything I could do at the time. Today is the day I make that right."

Barbie's womanhood got moist thinking of all she was entitled to inherit from her father. She wouldn't have to play so dirty if he was there for her like he was for the kids he had with Dana. "How do you plan on doing that?"

"By giving you a job. I need someone to fill a very important position while I'm away and I think you'll be perfect."

Barbie's eyes turned into slits and she spoke through gritted teeth. "A job? Are you serious? With all that man owes me you expect me to work for it?" She slammed her fist on the table. "Fuck you and your little offer! You can keep it!"

Dana matched Barbie's stare with unblinking, focused eye contact. "Don't ever mistake my understanding of your situation for pity. Even my children have to work for all that we provide for them. You will be no different. Accepting this job was not an option, Barbie. Unless you want to join me in prison for the scene you left back there."

Barbie slapped her hand over her mouth. If only the rosary tattoo on her hand could shield her guilt.

"Yes, I know all about Ebony and Charity... And I can make that go away. As my stepdaughter and the acting CEO of my Cleveland establishments, I'll make sure you're well taken care of, and you can get a little revenge on your father while you're at it."

Being backed in a corner didn't feel good at all but Barbie was defenseless. Dana proved to be a bigger threat than she realized. On the flip side she was an even bigger ally. "Alright... Alright. Tell me more about my new job description."

# CHAPTER SEVEN: INNER DEMONS

Honey rolled her eyes at her father as he rushed up the elegant stairway of his estate to the master bedroom. In the car on the way there she gave him clear instructions. Go apologize to Dana and stay glued to her side for the rest of her ordeal or else he would have another meeting with the ugly end of Honey's gun.

"And you're paying to get that sticky shit cleaned off my seat," she called out after him just as he disappeared out of sight. Even with his clothes on some of the mystery substance rubbed off on her interior.

She made her way to the large family room decorated with all cream colored furnishings and plopped down on the couch. She closed her eyes and massaged her temples. The vision of her father's syrupy body pounding into Candace from behind invaded her mental space making her nauseous. She squeezed her eyes shut tighter to push it away. That was to no avail so she opened them and sat up.

"No..." Honey shook her head in an attempt to ward off the hunger demon.

~

Honey and I have always had a special bond. Just like her, I know the pressures of trying to be the perfect girl all too well. I also know what it's like to be the baby of the family. But this isn't about me. This is about precious little Honey who never felt good enough to hold her own in a room full of Coopers.

The inner horrors this girl went through on a daily basis would make the strongest of independent Beyonce's breakdown. Yet, she's managed to control her self hate with Bulimia, reckless sexual affairs, and cliche' positive affirmations. With all of the bad luck plaguing her family as of late, will she be able to maintain her sanity?

~

Her mouth started to water as the mental demand to eat grew stronger. Honey rubbed her pudgy belly as a reminder that she couldn't afford to mess around with her weight. It'd been three weeks since she purged last and she was proud of that. She silently cursed her father for once again bringing up mess that should stay underground.

"Fuck this." Honey got up and stormed to the kitchen. Sheila, the house chef gave her a wide eyed look of surprise when she came in and headed straight for the refrigerator. Honey forcefully pushed the items inside around looking for the perfect edible to devour.

"I can have one of the servers bring you something, Honey. What can I get you?"

"I don't really know... Any cake around here?"

"Sure. We have your favorite. I made a German Chocolate cake this morning. One slice coming up." Sheila offered Honey a smile hoping to ease her tension.

"Give me the whole cake."

Sheila looked confused. "Okay... You have guests?"

Honey slammed the refrigerator closed. "Just give me the damn cake!"

"Fine. Fine. Just calm down. Jesus..." Sheila wobbled over to the pantry dragging her huge booty behind her. In her mid-fifties now, she was short and round with small, fat limbs and a face that was usually pleasant. She gave Honey a look of disappointment when she returned with the cake in tow on a crystal platter. She placed it on the counter before her.

"Fork please?" Honey pulled up a stool and sat down in front of her drug of choice.

Sheila got one from the drawer behind her and handed it to Honey. "Anything else" she asked sarcastically. The rest of the staff walked on eggshells around the Cooper family. Not Sheila. She was more than just one of the help. She was family. She practically raised the children and was like an aunt to them.

"Just some alone time. Please."

"I guess I can find something in this big ol' house to do. You sure you gonna be alright?"

Honey nodded and stabbed her fork into the baked good digging out a piece.

Sheila slipped away as she shoved it in her mouth.

Twenty minutes later, half a cake was gone and Honey's stressors were buried beneath the icing. She'd ignored a few thirsty texts from her new rapper boo but now she felt ready to talk to him. She took her phone out of her bra, it's normal safe place, and noticed a few Facebook notifications flashing on the screen. Her friends were commenting on some photos she'd been tagged in.

"I haven't posted pics in a few days," she said aloud to herself and opened the Facebook app on her phone. She went straight to her notifications and tapped on this picture that had everyone going crazy. Her brief feeling of internet fame came to an end with the sight of her naked body complete with her face covered in semen.

She gasped and grabbed her chest. "This cannot be happening!"

Further investigation showed that a fake profile using Honey's name, basic information, and nude photos had been created. Whoever did it added people that she really knew as friends starting the scandalous frenzy. Embarrassed and angry she ran to the bathroom to shove her fingers down her throat and purge the bad feelings away.

Knock, knock, knock...

Before she could get her digit in her mouth there was somebody at the door.

"What?!" She stood up from the toilet.

"You okay in there? I see you ate quite a bit of that cake."

"Why don't you mind your damn business, Sheila? I'm okay!"

The knob started to jiggle under Sheila's hand. "You unlock this door, now! You been being disrespectful since I laid eyes on you. Come out here and let me know what's really bothering you!"

"Sheila. I need you in the kitchen." Henry's voice came through the home sound system just in time.

"This is not over, young lady."

Honey breathed a sigh of relief when she was finally left alone with her porcelain God.

For the last two weeks Henn had been avoiding his parents and sisters like he owed them money. All of the drama of the last couple of weeks wasn't for him. He felt that his time was better spent doing what he did best: socializing and fucking with hoes. His favorite place to do both was The Cocktal e Lounge in East Cleveland.

Tonight was Sunday and the Cocktale was rocking like usual. All of the hood stars across the city knew that Sundays were the days to be seen in the spot so parking was nearly impossible. Impossible for everyone but Henn. One of the off duty police that did security there waved him into his normal space in the small parking lot behind the building. He dapped up the guard and went inside. Handshakes and hugs connected with the ghetto heir as he made his way to a seat near the corner of the bar. Caneshia, the bar maid that was obsessed with him, was already pouring up his regular drink.

~

Henn had always taken pride in portraying the image that he's a real nigga above all else. His life was his own personal reality show where he was the Stevie J. A better looking one with more money. Well, he had access to more money.

The lazy momma's boy had never done more than he had to in order to get by. He's a 35 year old college student who does odd jobs for his parents to keep money in his pocket. His responsibilities are minimal but he struggles to do those few things right. His charm got him by even with his parents so instead of pushing him out the nest and forcing him to be a man, they give him less and less to do as long as he stays in college. At least he's doing something.

Behind the handsome face and diamond jewelry gracing his neck and wrists, lies a man who had a sordid love affair with crack cocaine. He's been an undercover smoker for almost a year. He was introduced to the drug when he tried his hand at selling it for a brief period of time. One of his customers would exchange sex for stones with him. Before long, the pipe addicted beauty encouraged him to try it. She promised that it was just like smoking weed. Becoming a crack head was a choice. Any addiction could be controlled.

As he sat in his favorite hangout drinking and laughing with men who would ex-communicate him if they found out about his vice, he realized that she was wrong. He was burning for a hit of some dope. And he wished like hell that he wasn't.

~

Time passed slowly for Henn as he drank and did the same old same. Familiar faces bored him and he was tired of the scene after only about an hour and a half.

"Last round on you, bruh?" One of Henn's drinking buddies, Digga, slapped him on the back and leaned his drunken body over Henn's shoulder.

"Yeah, but this the last one for me. I got shit to do, man." It was close to last call and Henn was ready to go get high.

"Like what? That little thottie over there? She been staring all night."

Digga's head motioned towards the far end of the bar. Henn followed his gaze and took in a tall, high yellow chick with one of those genie ponytails that was a mile long. She was twirling it in her fingers and staring straight at Henn with lust in every blink. She reminded him of a taller version of Genie without the white splattered face. "She is eyeing a nigga hard..."

"Get at her then!" Digga waved the female over to them. She pushed through the crowd and forced her way in between the two drunkards. She placed a hand on Henn's shoulder.

"It's about damn time y'all asked me over," she yelled over the music bumping in the bar.

"Now that you're over here what you gon' do?" Henn upped the ante on her. He was only interested in stone cold freaks who fuck on the first night.

"I plan on doing a lot after you buy me a drink." She winked a slanted eye at Henn.

"Only if you drink what I drink."

"Sure. I'm about whatever. I'm Vanna by the way."

Henn grabbed Vanna's hand and kissed it. "Nice to meet you. We're drinking Don Julio."

"I'm a tequila girl so that works for me."

Caneshia peeped how Vanna slid next to her dream man to work her magic. She wasn't feeling that at all so Digga's frantic arm wave did nothing to hurry her over to them. She took her time coming back to Henn. The girl on his arm was not who she seemed and she was going to do her best to show him that.

"Give us six shots of my shit," Henn instructed Cameshia.

"Hey, Vanna. You working tonight?"

Vanna's eyes narrowed. "No, but you are so get our drinks, please."

Cameshia gave a sly smile. "You sure about that? Kraze came up in here earlier looking for you to pay out. But that's none of my business though. Six shots of Don Julio! Coming right up," she said and filled their order.

The three of them toss back their shots and said their goodbyes. Henn grabbed Vanna by the hand and she held tight as they maneuvered through the thickness of the partygoers. Cameshia shook her head and watched them make their exit.

Once outside Henn directed Vanna to his car. He pressed her up against the hood, grabbed her face, and stuck his tongue down her throat kissing her roughly. She wrapped her hand around his shoulders and returned the vile swapping of spit. Henn could feel his dick harden so he pressed into his mate a little harder pushing her down on top of the hood.

"Wait... Just..." Vanna did her best to talk in between breaths but Henn ignored her.

"Please... I... I gotta tell you something..."

Henn paused and stared her in the eyes. "I don't give a fuck about that shit Cameshia said in the bar. How you get your money is your business. I know all about Kraze and what he do."

"VANNA!"

Before she could respond an angry male voice came from behind them.

"Fuck," she whispered. "Get up."

Henn followed instructions and turned to see a tall, slim man with skin like coal giving them dagger eyes.

"So this is how you do me?"

"Do you how, Doug?" She stepped in front of Henn and folded her well toned arms.

"I thought you was going to work, Van!"

"I'm working! Now go back home!"

Doug's lips quivered and his breathing got deeper. His eyes were engulfed in disappointment. "After all we just talked about?! I been at home by myself waiting on you to get back and you're out here hoeing for free!"

Vanna stormed over to him as Henn watched in the wings. This was a lover's quarrel that had nothing to do with him.

"And you're sitting your broke ass at home doing nothing! Now bye!"

"Bitch!" Doug reached out and grabbed Vanna's arm. The same one that held her purse. She attempted to snatch away from him and the two began a tugging match.

Henn ran over and grabbed Doug by the throat. "Let her go, my dude."

Doug pulled away roughly causing Vanna's purse to fall to the ground. The contents flew across the pavement. Henn released Doug and he ran away crying like a scorned woman.

"You alright?" He turned and checked on Vanna.

"I'm good." She bent down to pick up her belongings. Henn bent down to help and noticed a stem. He reached out and picked up the glass crack pipe and stood. Vanna snatched it away from him. Her head hung low as she threw it in the bag and grabbed up the rest of her items. Once she was finished she waved Henn goodbye and turned to walk away.

"Wait. Where you going?"

"Home," she said, shoulders slumped.

"I thought you was coming with me?"

Vanna looked up at him with mist in her eyes. "I'm a prostitute, I just got into it with my man, and you saw my pipe. Why in the hell would you wanna take me anywhere?"

"I'm not the judgmental type, baby girl. Ain't nobody perfect. Let's go."

"So what made you start sucking the glass dick, Mr. Cooper?" The neon blue glow from the pool lights radiated off of Vanna's skin while her legs swayed back and forth in the water. Being in the private mini mansion with Henn was like a dream for the modest streetwalker.

"Watch your mouth."

"I'm sorry, Henn. I ain't mean to be rude or nothin' but I really wanna know. People would expect a bitch like me to be fucked up, but not you." She rubbed his wavy hair.

Henn's eyes closed and he leaned his head into the rub like a puppy eager to be pet. Vanna's touch was enchanting. He felt a magnetic connection with her. The only women that he had ever loved were his mother and sisters. Nobody other than them had ever conjured emotions within the misunderstood man.

Before now.

Women were nothing more than a vessel to deposit cum into. They weren't supposed to give you a yearning in your soul, or make you feel like nothing in the world existed but the two of you. One woman should never have Henn wanting to stop everything in life and give his all to her. His heart was off limits, and without realizing it, Vanna stole it.

"Talk to me. You can tell me anything." Vanna spoke freely.

"I know... I just met you but I already know that." Henn pulled Vanna close and kissed her. This time with passion as opposed to lust. He let his hands run over her body. A couple of squeezes to her breasts made way to handfuls of her ass cheeks. The tiny shorts she had on barely covered them.

"Let's go inside," Henn said feeling his nature rise.

"Why we gotta do that? I can get it turnt right here..." Vanna slipped off the edge of the pool into the water. Henn felt the vibe and took off his pants. When he sat back down Vanna made herself comfortable facing him as she stood between his muscular legs.

"I've been wanting to taste you all fuckin' night, baby." She grabbed his shaft and stroked it up and down.

Henn jerked from the electricity her fingers sent through him. "Shit... Take it then."

On command Vanna pulled his dick through the hole in his boxer briefs. She looked him in the eye as took him into her mouth gently sucking nice and slow. She wanted to take her time giving him her version of ecstasy.

The kisses paralyzed him. His eyes slammed shut tightly and his mouth was frozen in an "O". In his mind he was moaning like a blow job virgin. However, the sound couldn't seem to make its way out.

Taking even deeper control, Vanna intensified her mouth game. The melody of suction, saliva, and slurping played a symphony that made her lover's penis explode within minutes.

She swallowed the gift and said, "Let's get high."

Too amazed at the neck dinner Henn obeyed right away. "Yes, baby. Whatever you want."

# CHAPTER EIGHT: THE RETREAT

Henn exhaled the sweet smoke from the final hit of his crack pipe. He sat on the balcony right off the bedroom in the early morning hours alone while Vanna still slept. The view showed him why this was his father's favorite getaway place. He smiled at the memories of the night before filled with laughs and conversation. They shared a secret of cocaine use and sex played no part in what they were creating. Henn could still taste the kisses they shared all night long. She wanted to wait to make love and he believed that she was worth it. The things that the couple had in common were many. Henn couldn't believe the beautiful woman that had come into his life. He met his soul mate. There was no denying that...

~

When I found out that the Cooper Golden Boy was smoking dope I almost choked to death on my tea. He was raised with everything a young man could want. Money, popularity, and plenty of girls. Smoking crack was for people from the gutter.

What would lead a guy of his stature to that rock? Loneliness.

As the only boy in the Cooper Clan he was adored by his parents and was spoiled rotten to this day, but the special treatment made him an outcast amongst his sisters. Most of his life had been spent trying to find something to make him feel like a man. Something that would make him feel powerful. He found a drug more dominant than God to him. Now that he had Vanna he really felt like Superman. He could conquer the deadliest situations with his lady love by his side. True love is unconditional but I wonder if Henn can live up to the standard...

~

Vanna lay sleeping on the bed without a care in the world. Her beautiful face was relaxed and calm. Every secret Henn had ever held was now in her possession. He smiled at her hoping that he filled her dreams of the night.

She stirred a little and moved her position. She turned on her back revealing her round, supple breasts. The nipples were poking out at attention stimulating Henn's penis to do the same. He rubbed it and licked his lips. He knew that he agreed to hold off on sex for a while. But the feeling was too strong. He had to taste his queen.

No penetration. A little head shouldn't count, he reasoned with himself.

Henn pulled off his pants and boxers followed by his shirt. His chiseled body stepped over to the bed and climbed in gently. He grabbed the sheet with the tips of his fingers to pull the sheet back with a cat burglar's touch. His eyes followed as her flat stomach was revealed then the top of her boy shorts. He kept going...

"WHAT THE FUCK IS THAT!" Henn's eyes bulged open at the sight of a semi-hard dick pointing out the leg of Vanna's shorts. He froze in shock.

The screaming woke up Vanna who jumped up in a panic. "What?! What is it?!"

"That! You got a fucking dick?!" Henn pointed at her pelvis.

Vanna looked down horrified. "I... Henn, I was going to tell you..."

"When?! You sucked my dick a million times last night you had plenty of time!"

Henn wanted to get out of the bed and beat Vanna beyond recognition but he couldn't. He tore himself up inside for not noticing anything masculine about her. "Get the fuck out my house, man! NOW!"

"Wait! Henn, let me just explain everything to you!"

"Ain't shit to explain!"

"What about last night, huh?! You just wanna kick me out and act like all of that didn't exist. You can't erase it! It's too late, Henn! You fell in love with me!"

Those words gave him the strength to hop out of the bed and clutch Vanna's neck in his hands. "I'm not gay! I ain't fall in love with you!"

Tears poured from her eyes.

"I will NEVER love you, nigga! I should kill your motherfucking ass for trying to play me!"

Vanna attempted to squeeze out a plea but Henn was relentless. He drew back and slapped her with vicious momentum splitting her upper lip. "You ain't shit but a scheming ass faggot!"

Her face started to turn bright red so he released the tension on her neck. She immediately sucked in air and exhaled a terrified cry at the same time. Henn towered over her like King Kong complete with a heaving chest and flaring nostrils. He kicked Vanna in the stomach.

She wailed in return. "Baby! Baby please stop!" She put up a defensive arm.

"Don't call me that shit!" Henn kicked her again.

A small amount of vomit escaped her mouth this time and she was choking without control. Henn couldn't believe how much she favored his sister. His mind started to race.

How did she trick me?

Why couldn't I see through her?

Of all the niggas in the world why did she have to pick me to fuck over?

How could she?

She...

She...

She...

He?!

Henn shut his eyes closed tight and tried to shake away the idea that the pretty, fragile being before him wasn't a woman. Vanna staggered to her feet and backed up against the wall. "You don't have to do me like this..."

"SHUT THE FUCK UP," Henn screamed and bum rushed her. All he could see was red and betrayal as he landed swift punches everywhere on her body that he could connect them. He was taking every bit of anger he had stored inside out on her.

"No! Stop it! PLEASE!" Vanna did her best to block the blows to no avail. Henn kept on with the beating until he was out of breath. Once his wrath was over she collapsed to the floor screaming and crying.

Henn paced back and forth because he didn't know what else to do. The ass whipping that he just handed out did nothing for the pain he was feeling. His heart was still hurting and he ran out of solutions on how to fix it.

"I want to kill you," he growled at the injured Vanna. "I swear to God I do..."

"I'm sorry! I-I was gonna tell you!"

Henn scoffed at her plea. "You're going to stick to that bullshit ass story, huh? Get up and get the fuck out." He was so upset that logic was no longer present in his decisions. He didn't care about putting a bloody transgendered woman out of his home and the attention it could bring to him.

"Wait, Henry... Will you just calm down and wait." With all that he put her through she maintained her strength. She gained her composure and stepped towards him. "I don't want to fight you. I just want to love you... I know you feel the same way about me, too. This was a lot to take in and I don't blame you for what you've done to me. But I can't take much more so you have to stop."

Henn's eyes met hers and he crumbled. He broke down crying like a sweet toothed baby who got her candy taken away. His legs turn into wet noodles and he melted to the floor. He couldn't understand the sorrow that was pumping through his veins. This woman made him feel every emotion known to man all in about twelve hours.

Vanna pulled off her shirt and did her best to wipe her face clean before kneeling down next to Henn and joining him on the floor. She placed her hands on his cheeks and turned his face to hers. He didn't fight against her.

"I'm sorry," she whispered. "I love you." She leaned in and planted a kiss on Henn's full lips. He didn't turn against her adoration. He closed his eyes and kissed her back.

"Felipe, you're overreacting!" Barbie watched in agony as her fiance stomped around the room gathering up his belongings. "Where do you think you're going?!"

He stopped and stabbed his finger in her direction. "You need to decide who is more important! Me or your sister!"

"That's not fair! You said she could be here! I don't understand why you're so against her all of a sudden!"

"It's not all of a sudden, Barbie! You just been too into your own shit to notice that I NEVER wanted scandalous ass Redd or her bad ass kids in my house!"

"She's my sister, Felipe!"

"And I'm your finance! Oh, so my happiness don't matter around this bitch?!" He spread his arms and did a twirl as if to say he was the king of the world. "I pay every bill in this motherfucker and I have to come home to screaming and bullshit! You're always gone now so I'm stuck cooking for and cleaning up after a family that ain't even mine!"

Barbie's shoulders slumped at his response. "But-but we're getting married so it is your family," she said through quivering lips.

"Married, huh..." Felipe threw the last of his things in his duffle bag. "You sure about that?"

Before she could respond he was out of the room and she was left standing with her mouth hanging open.

~

Poor Barbie. Her picture perfect life was crumbling before her very eyes. There were two people that could stop it though and their names were Felipe and Redd.

While Barbie was been meeting with her stepmother in order to secure her and her sister's places among the Coopers, she had no idea that the baby that her sister was carrying belonged to her man. Felipe was feeling so ambitious as he was hitting two sisters until they were all together under the same roof. Shit got to be to complicated so Felipe and Redd's love affair ended the day she told him that she was pregnant and she's keeping the baby. He tried everything but no amount of money would send Redd to the preterm clinic. The only thing he had left to think of was to turn the sisters agains each other. Despite his actions, Felipe does truly love Barbie and he didn't want to lose her so he was willing to do just about anything to keep her from finding out what he's done. These ladies have no idea what kind of man they're truly dealing with.

~

Barbie threw up her hands and went inside of her large, boutique-like closet. She wanted to break down and cry from all of the stress going on inside her home but she couldn't. She had a very important meeting to get to and she needed to be focused for it. She swallowed back her tears and moved on.

"What do you wear to a family reunion for a family you never met?" She shuffled through the endless racks of high end fashions. Today was the day that Barbie would finally see her father and siblings face to face. Felipe was right about her barely being at home these days. For a little over a month Barbie's been attached to Dana's hip learning the ins and outs of the family and the business that she would be handling. Her new position was one of high responsibility, power, and best of all, pay. The grooming her stepmother was giving her opened her eyes to a whole new world and she was anxious to get out there and prove that she belonged there.

Dana was keeping her relationship with Barbie a secret for now. Barbie smiled when she thought about her. Her hands settled on a pretty lavender peplum dress. She pulled it out and went over to the mirror.

"This was something she would wear..." Barbie rubbed the soft material and imagined herself sitting in some fancy conference room handling big negotiations.

BOOM, BOOM, BOOM!

"Aaaah!"

The sound of children screaming drowned out her daydream. She turned around and was damn near trampled by her two nephews Boogie and Tristen. Barbie jumped out of the way and the 10 and 12 year old commenced to having a WWE title match.

"Get up! What the hell was wrong with y'all?!"

A few seconds later the boys stopped and stood before her. Tristen, the oldest, grabbed Barbie in a hug. "Auntie, we hungry. Can you fix us something to eat?"

"I gotta get dressed so I can go. Where was your mother?" She rubbed the child's back.

"She sleep. I tried to wake her up but she told me to get out her face." The little one scratched his elbow as he spoke. Both boys gave Barbie the saddest eyes and turned their little mouths into frowns.

"Please, Auntie. We're starving!"

"Whatever, Boogie." Barbie chuckled. "You don't know nothing about starving. Come on. I'll put something together for you really quick."

"Yes!" They slapped each other five and ran off towards the kitchen.

"Walk damn it!" She shook her head and followed behind them.

Fredireika, Barbie's sister who went by Redd, had turned her parlor into a bedroom. She was passed out on an air mattress with the TV blasting when Barbie walked in. The only thing covering her high yellow body was its freckles.

"Redd!" Barbie went over and shook her sister's shoulder. Empty Straw-Ber-Rita cans were strewn about the floor and the ashtray was full of ashes and plastic Black & Mild tips. "Redd, get up!"

"What," Redd moaned and sat up groggily. She rubbed her head of wild copper hair and squinted her eyes. "What, Barbie?"

"You need to put some clothes on and feed your motherfucking kids! That's what!"

Redd covered herself with a sheet and laid back down. After closing her eyes she said, "Tristen is old enough to make 'em some cereal."

"And your lazy ass was more than old enough to fix them a real breakfast!"

"You wanna be a momma so bad then you feed 'em."

That was a low blow. Barbie had been trying to get pregnant for ten years and she was starting to give up hope on becoming a mom. On the other hand, Redd was a sorry ass bitch that was blessed with four children. Barbie resented that deep down inside. That was the one thing that Redd could hold over her head but she wasn't about to let her jealousy ruin the day.

"You know what, you're right. Sleep your life away," Barbie said and left the room slamming the door behind her. She found the rest of the kids in the family room watching the Disney channel.

"Can you make panny cakes?" Honesty, the only girl, asked her question without looking up from the TV.

"I sure can. I make the best panny cakes in the world."

"My momma don't ever cook for us. She always make us eat cereal," the six year old replied.

"Shut up, Honesty! Dang! Mommy told you about always telling her business," Tristen snapped at her.

"It's alright, Tristen. She cool." Barbie scanned the room and noticed that there were only three kids there. "Where's Jayceon?"

The kids look around at one another confused. "He in the room with my momma."

"I was just in there with Redd and he wasn't in there with her."

"She was about to give him a bath earlier," Boogie said.

"How long ago was that?" Barbie started to back out of the room.

"I don't know... It was a while ago."

"Wait here. I'll be right back." Barbie turned and made her exit with quick feet. She ran to the parlor and shook her sister awake.

"Redd, where is Jay? Where was Jayceon?"

"He's in the bath-" Redd's hazel eyes shoot open.

Barbie was on her way to the bathroom at the end of the hall before Redd could finish her sentence. She slipped and fell on the wet tile floor upon entering. She looked up and Redd's nude body was rushing in after her.

"JAY!'

"No," Barbie screamed as she scrambled to her feet.

"OH MY GOD!" Redd jumped in the bath tub and scooped up the toddler who was face down in the large jacuzzi tub filled with water. She wrapped a limp and lifeless Jayceon in a hug.

"CALL 911!

# CHAPTER NINE: WITH FRIENDS LIKE THESE

"I don't know how much longer I can wait, Daddy." Candace gave Henry Sr. a sexy voice that would give a dead man a hard on as she stood in the hospital hallway on the phone with him. "I miss gagging on that dick." Two nearby nurses rolled their eyes at her dirty mouth as they did their random duties.

"I miss you too, baby. You have no idea what I've been going through over here. But we'll get together real soon, baby. I promise you that."

"You keep promising me that," she said with a pout.

"I know and I'll keep my promise. I have to go okay. I love you."

"I love you too, Daddy." Candace gave him kisses through the phone and hung up. She blew a kiss at the nosy eavesdroppers on her way back inside her friend's room to continue with her visit.

"Everything cool?"

"Yeah, we straight."

"When y'all gonna hook up again?"

"I don't know, Vanna. He still won't give me a straight answer."

"Don't you worry about that though. I know it'll be soon. That old pervert is in love with me for real. He'll come through."

"I wish it was that easy with his son." Vanna fought back tears at the mere mention of Henn...

~

Love can be a beautiful thing. Real, true love can make miracles happen when the right hearts collide. Unfortunately for Henry Cooper, his heart collided with Candace's and her heart is filled with everything but love.

Candace has made her living by draining the wallets of thirsty old men since she was 14 years old. After ten years in the game she's become a certified pro. Her clients get richer and richer with each conquest. Henry was her biggest fish yet. The crazy interaction she had with Honey almost made her chalk this trick up as a loss and move on. There's no room for drama like that in her business. But Henry called and professed his love for her promising that he would marry her when things die down at home. He even bought her a new car as a " be patient" gift. She could keep her distance from his family in return for the large payday. That's why she bought Vanna along for the ride. Loyalty means everything to her so it was nothing to share the wealth with her bestie. Too bad things between Vanna and Henn didn't work out.

Or so she thought...

~

"Don't even trip off that nigga, Van. Soon as you heal up you'll catch another one. You know how we do," Candace said. She pulled up the bedside chair and sat next to Vanna.

"Have you heard anything about him?"

"Who Henn? Girl, naw. He been laying low from what his father told me. You sure you don't wanna press charges on his ass?"

Vanna shook her head. "I don't wanna mess up things for you and Henry."

"I'll give that shit up if you want me to." The blatant lie slid through Candace's lips like Crisco.

"I wouldn't ever let you do that, sis. I got away with my life so I'm good. That nigga is dead to me." The truth was that she and Henn were very much together. After their fight he took her to the emergency room under the guise that she was attacked by someone else. He told her he couldn't let anybody know about their relationship. When the time was right he promised he'd tell the world. Vanna was more than willing to give him that as long as they can remain together.

He told her everything he had in his heart. That he was confused about his feelings right now but he loved her and he would stick with her. Vanna could never tell Candace this. A black hearted temptress like her didn't know the first thing about having a real relationship with a man. Besides, Vanna was breaking the number one rule of con-women everywhere: Never fall for the mark.

"Good," Candace continued. "'Cause if everything goes the way I planned Henry will be my last job. No more fucking random niggas to survive. I'll only have to deal with one!"

"This medicine they got me on was something else. I'm high as hell..."

Candace stood up and grabbed her purse. "You get some rest, girl. I'ma go. I'll be up here to visit same time tomorrow, okay?"

"Okay. Love you."

"Love you, too." Candace kissed Vanna on the forehead and left the room.

Once she was alone Vanna picked up the phone and dialed Henn's number. Just when she thought he wouldn't pick up his smooth voice came purring through the receiver.

"Hello."

"Henn, it's me."

He let out a sigh but stayed mute.

"Hello," Vanna gripped her end of the phone tighter. "Hello, Henn? Baby, you there?"

"I thought I told you I needed some time to get my head together."

"I know you did but I can't stop thinking about you. I'm... I'm just so glad that you're giving us a chance."

"Relax, Van. I'm not going nowhere. I told you that." He sounded calm but annoyed.

"You're right... I'm sorry, baby. I'll let you go."

"How you feeling? You sound better."

Vanna smiled relieved that he cared. "I'm better. Hearing your voice was what did it though."

"Let me know if you need a ride home, alright?"

"Alright."

"Have a good night, bae. I gotta go."

CLICK.

She slowly placed the phone back on the hook. She closed her eyes and lay back to relax. Her thoughts were prayers asking God to let this all be real. She could feel something different between her and Henn. There's no telling what she would do if she lost her soulmate.

The phone started to ring. She eagerly picked it up. "Changed your mind, huh?"

"You're gonna die," a voice whispered.

"What?"

"You're gonna die, bitch! And I'm gonna cut your little dick off!"

"Who the fuck was this?"

"Are you scared you dirty tranny?" The voice started to laugh. It was female.

Vanna realized that whoever was talking to her knew her personally. She struggled to figure out who it can be because the only two people that knew she was there were Henn and her best friend. "Candace? Bitch, quit playing with me."

"This ain't no fucking Candace, bitch. This was your worst nightmare."

"Honey, please. Ain't nobody scared of a muthafucka who talk crazy over the phone trying to disguise their voice and shit. If you gonna come for me come correct, hoe. Obviously you know where I'm at so come see me."

"This ain't a game. As soon as you hit the streets you're dead," the voice promised then hung up in Vanna's ear.

Lexington Fields answered the door looking like Shemar Moore with dreadlocs. Genie can't help but to lick her lips at the sight. "Well hello, Lex. Long time no see."

"A long time indeed, Miss Cooper. Come on in." He stepped aside allowing room for Genie to walk inside of his high end office in the sky. She walked over to the large windows and took in the view from the 20th floor.

"Beautiful office you got here."

"Thanks, Genie. Have a seat." Lexington took a seat on the small sofa in the corner of his office and she joined him.

"You have made quite a career for yourself. I'm impressed."

Lexington looked around his office with pride. "I worked my ass off to get here."

"I know you have. Word is you've been working hard for my mother."

He looked at her with a grin. "Something like that."

"You're her attorney aren't you?"

He moved himself closer to Genie and put his hand on her thigh. "Are you asking me to break client attorney privilege?"

"Let's see..." Genie spread her legs and took Lexington's hand and placed it on her panty-less lady friend. "I think I am."

~

If Genie wasn't such a conniving bitch she could have a promising career as a Hollywood actress. She's always been disgusted by Lexington's crooked, uncircumcised penis but to him she loves every inch. Faking an orgasm here and there was well worth having her ex-fiance on her team. Even with his sexual shortcomings Lexington was a good man to Genie. He spoiled and protected her the way a real man should. His political family ties and legal resources have come in handy for Genie over the years. If it wasn't for him she would be the one going to prison instead of her mother and she would never be released.

The relationship never stood a chance though because Genie was incapable of loving a man. She didn't trust them and she believes that no matter how loyal you stay to one he will always betray you in the end. Their connection was a strange one that was built on animal magnetism. It's a soul tie to the millionth power.

~

Lexington pulled off his necktie and unbuttoned his shirt. After pulling it off he dropped it to the floor and his lean, track runner's body made its debut. Genie pulled off her dress and stood before him. Her $10,000 titties were sitting up perfectly. He finished taking his clothes off and stepped up to her. He placed his hand on her stomach where a small ivory patch was. He rubbed it gently.

"You're so fucking beautiful..." He admired the pattern that vitiligo were left on her body.

She grabbed him by the back of the head and pulled him in to an aggressive kiss. He loved when she handled him rough. "Fuck me."

He spun her around swiftly and bent her over. Genie grabbed her ankles and braced herself for impact. Lexington grabbed her waist and slammed his rock hard dick inside of her.

"Mmmm..." She moaned as a result of pain and pleasure mixed together.

"I know... You like daddy's dick?"

"Yes..." This time she was actually telling the truth. For some reason, maybe it was the six years since they'd seen one another, the pounding Lex was putting on her was amazing.

"Yes, what?"

"Yes... Yes, daddy?"

He let out an all too familiar grunt and his penis started to pulsate releasing cum inside of her walls.

She pulled away from him with an attitude. His one minute man routine was usually just fine but today he left Genie pissed and wanting more. If this meeting wasn't more about business than sex she would give him a second to recover then got right back in the game.

"Damn, girl. It's feeling kind of tight. What's up with that?" He plopped down on the sofa to catch his breath.

She sat down next to him. "It's been a while."

"Wow..."

Genie cut her eyes at him. "Don't started."

"What? I didn't said anything."

She glared at him making sure he would keep his mouth shut about her loose, cheating ways for once. When she was sure he was going to be quiet she got down to the point.

"So what's up with you and Dana?"

"It's not anything serious. When did she tell you about us?"

"She didn't. A little birdie did."

"Come on, Genie. I know that nobody else knew about this. She had to be the one to tell you."

"I found out on my own."

"Being nosy." Lexington shook his head. "That's what you get. She wanted to tell you when the time was right but I guess that's over with now."

"I don't care about all that. I just want to know what the hell was going on."

Lex adjusted in his seat and cleared his throat. "Well, like I said, it's nothing serious right now. We're taking it slow until she files for the separation."

"Separation?"

"Yes. Once it's over between her and Henry can be open about the fact that we're seeing each other."

Genie jumped up from the couch. "What the fuck did you just say?!"

"I'm sorry, Genie..."

f"Sorry?! You just had sex with me a few minutes ago and now you're telling me you want to be in a relationship with my mother?!"

"You're the one the came strolling here giving pussy away! I didn't ask for that!"

"Fuck you, Lex!" Genie snatched her dress up off the couch and struggled to put it on. Her hands were shaking bad.

"Fuck me?! After all the dirty dog shit you've done you have the nerve to say fuck me?!"

"I have never done anything remotely this bad, Lex! My mother?!"

He spoke as he put on his clothes. "I bet you can't count how many times you've cheated on me. The STDs, the abortions... Look at how you ended our engagement."

Genie wanted to respond but the truth were rendered her silent.

"I was almost disbarred because of you. I risked my entire fucking career! And you left me with an empty house and no type of explanation! I may be dealing with Dana but this is the first time I've ever did you wrong! Ever! So don't try to make me into a monster!"

She held back the scream that was threatening to rush from her throat. Instead she calmly got dressed and headed for the door. Lex fastened the last button on his shirt and followed behind her.

"Genie. Genie, wait." He reached out and grabbed her arm.

She snatched away from me. "Don't you touch me!"

"I don't want you to leave like this... Calm down don't leave mad."

"Are you retarded or something? What the fuck is going on inside that brain of yours? You think that you're going to get away with this shit you're trying to pull?"

"I'm not trying to pull anything. I really have love for Dana."

Genie reached up and slapped him across the face. "You listen to me, Lexington. After all those years we spent together you should know me well enough to know that I am not going to allow you and Dana to be together. You just signed your death certificate."

She turned and stormed out the door slamming it behind her. When he was left alone Lexington went to his desk and picked up the phone. He dialed and waited intently for an answer.

"Hey, baby. Look... I fucked up. Genie knows everything."

# CHAPTER TEN: FAMILY REUNION

Barbie's day was already a long one and it was barely noon. She started the morning by visiting her nephew's grave to make sure the headstone she purchased was installed properly. That was followed by a meeting with her sister's lawyer to discuss the charges brought up against her. Now, she was leaving an uncomfortable visit with Redd at the Justice Center. They had her on psych watch because she'd been sucidal since the day she found her son drowned to death in the bathtub. She tried to kill herself the first night she spent in jail.

Redd swore that she didn't kill her baby boy. In fact, she blamed his accident on Barbie claiming her desperation for a child of her own caused her to kill the toddler in a jealous rage. This hurt Barbie to the bone but she didn't take it personally. She couldn't imagine the pain that her sister was going through.

When she arrived at home Barbie headed straight to the in-house gym to find Felipe. He was running on the treadmill while listening to his iPod. She studied his reflection in the wall of mirrors before him. His muscular body was covered in sweat and his face was twisted in a mean snarl. He hadn't said much to her since their last blow out about Redd and it was driving her crazy. She went up to him and tapped his shoulder.

Felipe pulled one of his earpods from his ear. "What," he growled at her.

"Can we talk?"

"About what?"

"Us, Felipe. Everything." Barbie looked at him with pleading eyes.

He pressed the button to bring the treadmill to a stop then stepped down. "Talk."

~

You would think that Felipe would want to comfort his grieving fiancee at such a tragic time instead of being an asshole. It looked like Barbie was under the spell of a master manipulator. While she searched for the perfect way to save her relationship he already had a plan to do just the opposite and it was nothing nice.

~

"Let's go sit down."

"No, Barbie. I gotta finish my workout so say what you have to say." He took a swig from the water bottle sitting on the treadmill.

She scoffed taken aback. "Well, damn... Okay. I just wanted to see if you're still in this or not. You act like you hate me and I don't know why. My sister and the kids are gone and you still seem upset with me. Do you even care about what I'm going through? I mean, my nephew died in our house, Felipe!"

"And that's your stupid ass sister's fault. What do you want me to do?"

"I want you to be my man! Act like a future fucking husband! Be there for me!" Tears formed in the corner of her eyes.

Felipe's face softened and he pulled Barbie into a tight hug. "I'm sorry... I'm sorry, babe. Don't cry."

"I'm trying my best, Felipe. My whole life was falling apart and I don't know how to stop it."

"I know, I know." He rubbed her back. "And I want you to know that I feel fucked up about what happened to the baby, man."

"Redd think I had something to do with it!"

"You know Redd ain't got 'em all. She knows that she hasn't been handling her business. None of this is your fault. All you ever tried to do was help her."

Barbie looked up into his pretty brown eyes. "Thank you, baby. I really needed to hear that."

"All this shit is going to be over soon, I promise. I'm here for you, babe."

The two leaned in and shared a delicate kiss. Felipe pulled her in closer and added his tongue to the party.

BZZZZZZ.... BZZZZZZ....

Barbie's vibrating cellphone stole her attention. "Shit," she said without answering. "I gotta go."

Felipe screwed his face up in confusion. "Where?"

"I have some stuff to take care of with Redd's case."

"Alright. Go handle that. I'll be here when you're done."

"Thank you. I love you."

"Love you, too. And I'm sorry... I mean that." Felipe got back on the treadmill and finished his his run as Barbie left the house.

She called Dana back as soon as she got in the car. "I'm on my way. I had to stop at home first."

"Hurry and get here. You don't want to make a bad first impression."

"Of course I don't. I'm on my way."

~

"Get up!" Henn shook Vanna who was still sleeping in his bed. "Vanna, get up!"

As promised, Henn was still seeing her despite her confession. To him, she was the same woman that he fell in love with and he couldn't get over that. Since she was released from the hospital this last time, they'd spent every night together. Usually their rendezvous took place at the rental home but this time he decided to bring her to his parent's estate to show off a little. His plan was to have her gone before the family arrived for their scheduled meeting the next day. Unfortunately, the night was a late one filled with sex and drugs so he overslept. He shook her one last time.

"Vanna, wake up! Time for you to go!"

"Okay..." She sat up and yawned. "What time is it?"

"I don't know but you have to leave. Now." Henn picked up her dress from the floor and tossed it to her.

"Damn! Can I at least pee first?"

"Yeah, but you gotta go right after. I have important family business to tend to." He went to his closet to choose an outfit for the day.

Vanna got up from the bed and slipped on her dress. "Cool. I finally get to meet my in-laws," she said and headed for Henn's bathroom. As she passed him she noticed the look on his face. "What?"

"There won't be time for that."

"I'm not asking to sit and stay. I just want to say hi on my way out."

"Not today, okay. Now hurry up so I can walk you out."

KNOCK, KNOCK, KNOCK!

Henn's eyes fixed on the door in shock. "Go in the bathroom!"

Vanna crossed her arms and shook her head. "You're not about to hide me."

"Don't you gotta pee?!"

"Nope. Not anymore."

Henn got down on his knees in front of her. "Please, just do me this one solid. I promise when the time is better I'll introduce you to everybody. Today is not that time but it will be soon. Trust me, bae."

"Okay... But this is the one and only time I'm doing this." She rolled her eyes and went in the bathroom.

Henn went and answered his bedroom door. It's Honey.

"Why aren't you dressed? We're waiting on you to start the meeting," she said.

"I just got up. I'll be down in a minute."

"What is that smell?" Honey wasn't partial to the odor of crack cocaine.

"What? I don't smell nothing. Gone somewhere and let me get dressed."

"Fine, sucka. Hurry up."

"Ten minutes at the most and I'll be down." He slammed the door in his sister's face before she could said anything else. Henn hurried to his closet and pulled on the first pants and shirt he laid his eyes on then retrieved Vanna from the bathroom. "You ready to go?"

"I guess." She slipped on her shoes and grabbed his hand.

Henn led her out of the bedroom and hurried to the nearest exit. He was careful to check every hall and corner before passing so nobody caught him with her. He handed her a $100 bill and kissed her goodbye. "I'll call you later"

"Bye." The disappointment was thick in her voice but Henn didn't have time to care. He shut the door and turned to go to the dining room for the family meeting. Honey was standing there when he looked up.

"Who was that?"

"None of your business."

Honey giggled. "You're gonna get enough of fucking with these randoms."

Henn hurried past her without responding.

"At least she's cute," Honey said and followed behind.

Dana, Henry Sr., Genie, Helyana, and Sparkle were already seated at the table when Henn and Honey get there to join the family.

Dana looked around the table at everyone and smiled. "Our family meetings have been filled with bad news lately but today is different. I have some amazing news to share with you all."

~

That Dana has some impeccable timing. On the eve of the day she was to turn herself into prison she decides to drop more bomb on her family. I've always admired how calculated and cunning she was. You don't see many women like her these days.

Leaving her family behind for a year in the Feds was just the beginning of Dana's well calculated journey.

~

"Our family has faced some challenges this last month and a half. We've been tested to our limits and I'm proud to said that we aced every one."

Genie rolled her eyes. "We have. And the amazing news is?"

Everyone at the table threw their hands up and groaned.

"Let her talk, Genie. Damn," Henn said.

"It's alright. I'll cut to the chase." Dana placed her hand on Henry's. "Your father and I would like to introduce you to your sister."

Henry cuts his eyes at her. "Really, Dana?"

"Yes, really. Barbie..."

All of the Cooper siblings looked in confusion at the dark skinned beauty that came into the dining room and walked up to the table. She took a seat in an empty chair next to Henry. He stared at her in awe.

"Hi, Daddy. You still look the same," she said with a smile. "A little older, but the same."

"This has got to be some kind of fucking joke..." Honey was pissed.

"Everybody I want you to said hello to Barbie. Your sister."

"Hi, I'm Helayna. You can call me Twin like everybody else."

Genie pointed at her mother. "You're an evil bitch, you know that! Who the fuck was she?!"

"And why is she here?!" Sparkle pointed at Barbie.

Henry put his hands up in defense. "Hold up, girls. I can explain all this."

Dana interjected. "No let me."

"You've done enough," he snapped at her. "I can take it from here. Barbie is one of two daughters I had before I met your mother. I'm not sure what she's doing here or why your mother didn't tell me she was coming, but that's who she is. I'm sorry you had to find out this way."

Barbie slammed her fist on the table. "So you're just going to talk about me like I'm not sitting right here?"

"Don't talk to my father like that," Honey yelled at her.

"Newsflash, idiot! He's my father, too!"

Genie started laughing hysterically. She grabbed her stomach and doubled over she was so tickled. Everyone looked at her like a crazy person.

"I'm sorry... Whew! I'm sorry," she said wiping tears from her eyes. "This whole situation is hilarious. Daddy got kids nobody ever knew about, Dana is fucking my ex-fiance, and Honey's naked ass is all over social media. This family was a joke!"

Gasps filled the room.

"Genie," Twin called out. "Quit talking crazy!"

"Oh, shut up and get mad for once! Look at this shit, Twin! Can you believe Dana is leaving Daddy for Lexington?!"

Henry hopped up from his seat. "Dana, you better get to explaining!"

"Sit down, Henry. You've known about my affair for months. And don't you ever think I don't know you've still been messing around with Candace."

"This is some twisted shit." Barbie shook her head and leaned back in her chair. "Dana, I know you want me to be acting CEO of you're company but I can't do it. I'm sorry." She stood up to leave.

"Sit down, please. You're going to do as I say or your sister will never see the light of day again. Your nieces and nephews will be sent with foster families far away from here. Don't try me, Barbie."

Barbie froze where she stood.

Twin got up from her seat and went over to her mother. "Mama, this is not like you. Look at all this turmoil you're causing. Why were you doing this to us? We're your family."

"Because she doesn't give a fuck about us. Never have," Genie told her.

"That's not true," Dana said in her defense. "I didn't want things to go like this. Everybody here is grown. I thought we would be able to talk this out."

"What is that," Honey asked with fright in her voice.

Everyone looked at her and followed her scared stare up to the ceiling. There was a large read stain right above the sparkling, crystal chandelier. Tiny drops of crimson liquid dripped from it. Each drop hit the center of the table. Henn got up and rubbed it with his finger.

"This... This is blood."

The ladies at the table hopped up from there seats and backed away from the table.

"Are you sure," Honey asked.

"Yeah, I'm sure."

"But, but where could it be coming from?! Why is blood coming from the ceiling?!" Sparkle rubbed herself all over as if she was covered in it.

"I don't know but I'm about to call the police." Henry dug his cellphone from his pocket.

"Don't!" Dana grabbed his hand. All eyes moved to her.

"Why not?"

"Hi, everybody!" Everyone turned to see a pretty light skinned woman standing in the doorway. She waved and came in to join them. "I'm Vanna."

Henn ran over to her and grabbed her arm. "What the fuck are you doing here?!"

"I wanted to meet your family."

"I told you today wasn't a good day," he said through a clinched jaw. "Let's go." He pulled her towards the door but she snatched away from him. Her strength reminded him that she really was a man under that dress.

"You don't have to hide me. We love each other. They'll understand."

Honey pointed at her. "Hey! It's the pretty girl from earlier."

"Vanna, please. Now was not the time for this. I'm serious." Henn grabbed her arm again and pulled with more force towards the door. Once again she snatched away from him.

"Henn and I were in a relationship. He's been scared to tell y'all about me because I'm a transexual female."

"A what," said Henry's booming voice.

"A transexual. I was born a man."

"Excuse me?" Dana clutched her chest. "Oh... Oh my God." She closed her eyes and winced at the pain. Her knees buckled but luckily Twin was there to catch her. She helped her stand back up.

"Ma, are you alright."

"N-no..." Dana's eyes fluttered then suddenly she collapsed to the floor.

The End.

Check out other titles by Really Rashida

Thirsty: An Unlikely Obsession

Rags To Riches Volume 2

Rags To Riches Volume 3

A Love Hate Thing

Follow @reallyrashida on Instagram

http://reallyrashida.com
  1. CHAPTER ONE: LEGACY
  2. CHAPTER TWO: LOYALTY
  3. CHAPTER THREE: WARNING
  4. CHAPTER FOUR: LIFE OR DEATH
  5. CHAPTER FIVE: PREY FOR HER
  6. CHAPTER SIX: DIRTY HANDS
  7. CHAPTER SEVEN: INNER DEMONS
  8. CHAPTER EIGHT: THE RETREAT
  9. CHAPTER NINE: WITH FRIENDS LIKE THESE
  10. CHAPTER TEN: FAMILY REUNION

