 
Reaching Forward

Bobby A. Troutt

Copyright 2015 by Bobby A. Troutt

Smashwords Edition

Thank you for downloading this free ebook. You are welcome to share it with your friends. This book may be reproduced, copied and distributed for non-commercial purposes, provided the book remains in its complete original form. Thank you for your support.

Table of Contents

Five Smooth Stones

God Will Guide You, but You Must Choose the Direction

Turning Impossibilities into Victories through Jesus Christ our Lord

Have You the Faith to Charge Hell with a Bucket of Water?

The Yoke of Bondage

For by Grace Are Ye Saved Through Faith

The Road to Hell is paved with Good Intentions

*****

Reaching Forward

Five Smooth Stones

Thought to Keep in Mind:

There are giants in our land and across our country. We need to be like David and stand up against the giants of drugs, alcohol, sex and suicide.

Scripture Reading – I Samuel 17:38-42 and I Samuel 17:48-51 (Read Scripture First)

Comment: David was a youth, a young shepherd boy, when he came against Goliath. God needs some young men and women, today, to stand against the giants in our land. We have giants in our land today: drugs, alcohol, sex and suicide. Young people, today, are faced with sin on every hand. They are faced with the sins of a dying world from past generations. The youth of today shall suffer tomorrow with the old. Sin is sin. I would like to use the five smooth stones as an illustration. You know David picked up five stones but only used one. I would like to talk about the first stone as the word of God.

John 1:1

In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.

John 1:2

The same was in the beginning with God.

If we are going to fight the devil it will be by the word of God. God spoke this world into existence. By his word we shall live and we shall be judged.

I Samuel 17:45

Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied.

I Samuel 17:46

This day will the Lord deliver thee into mine hand; and I will smite thee, and take thine head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the host of the Philistines this day unto the fowls of the air, and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.

I Samuel 17:47

And all this assembly shall know that the Lord saveth not with sword and spear: for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands.

David said and David did. The Lord delivered the enemy into his hand. If we will stand on the word of God, God can move in our lives. It makes all the difference. We need to study and read our Bible daily for direction, power and strength. The second stone is prayer. We need a strong fellowship with God through his son Jesus each and every day of our lives. Prayer is the key to a strong foundation with Christ. We need to keep a prayerful mind and prayerful attitude at all times. We need to pray for and listen to each other. So many times we do all the talking and we fail to listen to God. The third stone is the blood of the Lamb of God. We need it applied to our lives when we fall; we need to put it under the blood of Jesus and pick up the cross and go on. So many times, when we fail, we want to quit and give up but that is when we need to keep pressing forward and not backwards. Let the blood of Jesus Christ be applied to your life. The fourth stone is faith.

Hebrews 11:1

Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.

We must walk by faith, not sight. By grace we are saved. We must believe in our hearts and in our lives that God can do anything. One day, Jesus is coming back. When he does, will you still have giants in your life?

Isaiah 41:10

Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee: yea, I will hold thee with the right hand of my righteousness.

Isaiah 41:13

For I the Lord thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not; I will help thee.

Be not afraid. The fifth stone is patience.

Isaiah 40:31

But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary, and they shall walk, and not faint.

Always be ready. Be prepared when God calls; wait on him and let him lead you. He will make a way.

James 1:3

Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience.

James 1:4

But let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing.

James 1:5

If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.

James 1:12

Blessed is the man that endureth temptation: for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him.

James 1:13

Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God: for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man:

James 1:14

But every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed.

James 1:15

Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin: and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death.

Rejoice in your trials and troubles. Be patient and let Jesus move in your life. But, rejoice in trials for they are a shortcut out of the valley. For, through Jesus Christ, all things are possible. When you are tempted, pray and draw nigh to the word of God. Draw nigh to Jesus and hold fast to his words. Resist evil and the devil will flee. We are tempted with our weaknesses. However, we can overcome our weaknesses and be strong in them through the Lord. Blessed is he that endureth. Happy is that man. The church is a light to a dark and dying world, a world eaten up with sin. It only took one stone to bring down Goliath. It only takes one word to destroy drugs, alcohol and anything else and that is NO! God needs men and women to use these five stones to stand up and fight against sin. The church is the light of the world. If the world doesn't see the light from the church, how will it be?

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Matthew 6:24

No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.

Which one have you chosen to serve? Lost people need to be saved. Backsliders, you need to rededicate your life. Christians, we need to be a light. One stone was all it took to bring down Goliath. One word is all you need for sin. NO!

~~~~~

I will not let the enemy bring me down or defeat me. For, I will use the word of God against him and my prayers in the Lord to loose me from his stronghold and the Lord's spirit to conquer him, by and through the power of the Living God. Today is a day the Lord has made for me and I shall walk each day in the victory of Jesus Christ my Lord. I am free through his spirit, his word and in my prayers to him. There is victory in the blood of Jesus my Lord.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

Sometimes in life, the storms rage against us and come down so hard on us that we cannot see the end. We fall weak and struggle. We search for the light but darkness surrounds us. It gets so bad at times, we believe we're going down for the third time and all seems so hopeless; we believe we will never get through it. Then the light breaks through and pierces the darkness. The sky opens up; the storm moves out and peace from the Lord anchors in our hearts and minds, driving out all doubt and fear. And then we are able to find rest in the Lord and it feels so good.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Reaching Forward

God Will Guide You, but You Must Choose the Direction

Thought to Keep in Mind:

Matthew 7:13

Enter ye in at the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat:

Matthew 7:14

Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.

God is willing to guide you to eternal life, but you must choose the direction. The choice is Jesus Christ, the son of the living God, and the direction is a straight and narrow road. You must choose a holy way, a clean way, a way of repentance and a way without spot or blemish. Jesus Christ, the son of God, cared enough for you, me and the world to lay aside his glory that he was born of the virgin birth, came and walked among men and died for your sins, my sins and the sins of the world. Will you answer the call? Will you answer the knock of Jesus upon your heart's door? Will you be saved and born again unto the spirit of the living God?

Luke 23:32

And there were also two other, malefactors, led with him to be put to death.

Luke 23:33

And when they were come to the place, which is called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one on the right hand, and the other on the left.

Luke 23:34

Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do. And they parted his raiment, and cast lots.

We find here where Jesus was crucified between two thieves, one on the right and one on the left. Both thieves were guilty of their crime and was sentenced to death. Here was Jesus, an innocent man, who had done no wrong and there was no fault in him but he was still sentenced to death. For, Jesus had never sinned, not even once, and he was without spot or blemish. But, he loved us enough to bear our sins and the sins of the world that we could get forgiveness and walk in fellowship with God with the hope of eternal life. Here was an innocent man who had done no wrong, committed no crimes or broke any laws. But, yet, he died for you and me. Jesus hung there between those two thieves. Jesus paid the price we couldn't pay. He was spotless, sinless and the perfect sacrifice to die and shed his blood for the sins of the world. He was the son of the living God. By the shedding of his precious blood, we have the forgiveness of sin. If you will repent in your heart to Jesus and are truly sorry for your sins and accept by faith what Jesus has done for you at Calvary, God will forgive you. God will guide you. But, you must choose the direction. The choice is Jesus. The direction is the old rugged cross.

Luke 23:34

Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do. And they parted his raiment, and cast lots.

Jesus said, "Father forgive them for they know not what they do." Have you ever thought about a sinner coming to pray, seeking Jesus and God the Father? Jesus, his son and all the hosts of heaven are looking down from heaven at the sinner, praying at the altar, or wherever he may be and crying out to Jesus. Can you see Jesus sitting there upon the right hand of God looking over to the father and saying father forgive him? When the sinner rises up, that old sin-sick, heavy burden is gone and he is set free from death. He is washed in the blood of the precious Lamb of God, Jesus, and born again into the spirit of the living God. His sins are forgiven by accepting and believing by faith in Jesus Christ our Lord and what he did at Calvary and the empty tomb; his sins are washed whiter than snow.

Luke 15:10

Likewise, I say unto you there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth.

Do you remember the day when they shouted in heaven when you stepped out and came unto God?

Isaiah 53:1

Who hath believed our report? and to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed?

Isaiah 53:2

For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground: he hath no form nor comeliness; and when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him.

Isaiah 53:3

He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our faces from him; he was despised, and we esteemed him not.

Isaiah explained that he was a tender plant, a root out of dry ground. He hath no form or comeliness. There was no beauty that we should desire of him; he was despised and rejected. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. We hid, as if it were our faces, from him and we esteemed him not.

John 3:16

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

John 3:17

For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.

God will guide you. But, you must choose the direction.

Luke 23:35

And the people stood beholding. And the rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others; let him save himself, if he be Christ, the chosen of God.

Luke 23:36

And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him, and offering him vinegar.

Luke 23:37

And saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself.

Luke 23:38

And a superscription also was written over him in letters of Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.

They beat him, spit in his face, plucked the hair out of his beard, laid stripes upon his back, put a crown of thorns upon his head and then nailed him to the cross. These acts were done by his very own chosen people. He was rejected, mocked and scourged by his own. Are you rejecting him? Are you turning Jesus away? The Jews cried out, "Crucify him. Crucify him."

John 19:15

But they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar.

They cried out, "We have no king but Caesar." I ask you, whom will you choose to serve? Will it be Jesus? Your choice will determine where you spend eternity.

Isaiah 53:4

Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted.

Isaiah 53:5

But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed.

Isaiah 53:6

All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all.

He bore our grief and carried our sorrow. He was wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities and the chastisement of our peace was upon him. And with his stripes we are healed. God loved us so.

John 10:9

I am the door: by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture.

John 10:10

The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.

Christians, all you have become or all you will ever become is by the grace of God and through those who have helped you along the way.

Isaiah 53:6

All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all.

If your heart is not right with the Lord and you are lost and out of the will of God, you must make a choice. Will it be a straight and narrow way or will it be of the world? Will it be a straight and narrow way or will it be a broad way which leads to hell?

Luke 23:38

And a superscription also was written over him in letters of Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.

The Jews put a sign above his head written in Greek, Latin, and Hebrew. It read, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS. Little did the Jews know that, one day, when God says it is time, Jesus Christ the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, the son of God, shall split the eastern sky.

Philippians 2:10

That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of the things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth;

Philippians 2:11

And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.

There was a sign also at the resurrection of Christ.

Matthew 12:40

For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly; so shall the Son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.

That sign still stands today; the empty tomb. Can you believe? God will guide you, but you must choose the direction.

Luke 23:39

And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us.

Luke 23:40

But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation?

Luke 23:41

And we indeed justly; for we receive the due reward of our deeds: but this man hath done nothing amiss.

Luke 23:42

And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom.

Luke 23:43

And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, To day shalt thou be with me in paradise.

"If thou be Christ, save thyself and us," cried one of the thieves, tempting him. The thief, I believe, was selfish and using Jesus at his convenience. I wonder! Never before have I read where this man ever called upon Jesus before. Not until that moment, the point of death. Evidently, he must have never needed Jesus before. But, when he was at his end, look to where and to whom he had to turn to. Have you ever been there? Do you use Jesus at your convenience? Are you going to wait until the point of death before you call upon him? By then, it may be too late. When the Holy Spirit of God deals with you and your heart, it is time to answer. Don't let the devil cheat you out of eternal life. This thief called upon Jesus to save himself. I believe he was hard-hearted and thinking only of himself. He had no compassion for Jesus or himself. He just didn't want to die. Sounds like people today. People call upon Jesus when they are facing troubles and going through bad times but they forget him when times are good. The other thief was different. I believe he had seen something in Jesus. He had mercy and compassion; he asked Jesus to forgive him.

Luke 23:40

But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation?

He knew he was lost. He knew how he stood before God. He did something about it. I ask you, how do you stand before God? Today is the day of salvation, for tomorrow may be the judgment. Jesus told the thief that today shalt thou be with me in paradise. If you are lost and away from God, today, you can be in paradise by accepting Jesus in your heart and life in that born again experience. You can have joy, peace and love from Jesus in your life if you will accept Jesus and the way of the old rugged cross. Which thief, today, will you be? Will you be the one who accepted him or the one who rejected him? It is your choice. The choice you make will determine where you will spend eternity. I believe that, still to this day, the thief who rejected Christ still hears his voice in hell; if thou be Christ, save thyself and us.

Isaiah 53:7

He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth: he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth.

Isaiah 53:8

He was taken from prison and from judgment: and who shall declare his generation? for he was cut off out of the land of the living: for the transgression of my people was he stricken.

Isaiah 53:9

And he made his grave with the wicked, and with the rich in his death; because he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth.

Isaiah 53:10

Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him; he hath put him to grief: when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand.

He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth: he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter. God will guide you, but you must choose the direction.

Luke 23:44

And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour.

Luke 23:45

And the sun was darkened, and the vail of the temple was rent in the midst.

Luke 23:46

And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said thus, he gave up the ghost.

Jesus said, "Father into thy hands I commend my spirit." Can you give your heart to God?

Isaiah 53:11

He shall see of the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied: by his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many; for he shall bear their iniquities.

Isaiah 53:12

Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong; because he hath poured out his soul unto death: and he was numbered with the transgressors; and he bare the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors.

God has made the way, the only way, through his son Jesus Christ. It is up to you to choose.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Matthew 21:1-12 (Read Scripture First)

Jesus had entered into Jerusalem. The crowd was for him. They spread their garments in the way; others cut down branches from the trees, and strawed them in the way for Jesus to ride upon. The multitude that went before him and followed cried, "Hosanna to the son of David: blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord; Hosanna in the highest." Probably, the same people, just a few hours later, cried crucify him, crucify him and nailed Jesus to the cross. Jesus road into Jerusalem on a donkey and the crowd cheered him on. But, when he left, he left beaten with stripes upon his back, a crown of thorns upon his head and carrying a cross. What happened? God will guide you, but you must choose the direction. What is your choice? Will it be Jesus?

Luke 23:27

And there followed him a great company of people, and of women, which also bewailed and lamented him.

Luke 23:28

But Jesus turning unto them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves, and for your children.

Luke 23:29

For, behold, the days are coming, in the which they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bare, and the paps which never gave suck.

Luke 23:30

Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; and to the hills, Cover us.

Luke 23:31

For if they do these things in a green tree, what shall be done in the dry?

~~~~~

The break of dawn awaits a new day. On the horizon, troubles, trials and temptations appear at the morning light. I shall not fear nor be moved. I will not be shaken for I know in my heart the Lord is with me. And even the impossible seems possible to me. For, I love and serve a God that can turn the impossible in to possible and bring me through. I will not be afraid of the awakening of the unknown of the day. But, I will face it, believe in my Lord and rest in him in the light at the end at the day.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

I asked and then waited. After a while, I thought to myself that I had been patient about what I had asked. I thought it was time for it but yet it hadn't come. So, I waited some more. Time passed but still nothing. So, I thought it was not meant to be. So, I gave up. However, later it came. It wasn't in my time but in the Lord's time. It didn't happen like I asked or come like I expected. But, it happened in the Lord's way which was better than I ever could imagine. If it had not happened, I would have known it was not meant to be.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Reaching Forward

Turning Impossibilities into Victories through Jesus Christ our Lord

Thought to Keep in Mind:

Hebrews 12:1

Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us.

Hebrews 12:2

Looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith; who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.

Can you, today, as Christians, lay aside each and everything that hinders you from giving your all to God, from holding you back and from the total complete commitment to Christ? Lay everything aside that is keeping you from having the fullness of God and his blessing in your life. Jesus opened the eyes of the blind. He healed the sick and he saved the lost. He raised them from the dead and even died and raised himself from the dead. I want to talk a few minutes about me and you letting Jesus turn our impossibilities into victories. Those things you feel there is no hope for. Let Jesus speak to you through the power of God and through the Holy Spirit of God. Lay aside everything that is holding you back.

Luke 18:27

And he said, The things which are impossible with men are possible with God.

The impossibilities in your life are turned into victories through the blood of our Savior Jesus Christ.

Scripture Reading – John 2:1-11 (Read Scripture First)

We find here the first miracle that Jesus did. Upon the third day, there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee; Jesus and his disciples were there.

John 2:3

And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine.

John 2:4

Jesus saith unto her, Woman, what have I to do with thee? mine hour is not yet come.

John 2:5

His mother saith unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it.

The mother of Jesus said, "They have no wine." And Jesus said, "Mine hour has not yet come." So many times, in our Christian life, we have needs. So many times, we are like Mary; we try to rush the Lord. We try to get ahead of him and we expect him to jump when we ask him. But, it doesn't work that way. We as Christians need to stay humble before God, be patient, pray, wait upon the Lord and let the Lord work it out in his time and season. We need to search our hearts to do God's will, not our will. We need to anchor our full trust and love in Jesus with wholehearted obedience in our Christian walk with God.

Psalm 37:1

Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity.

Psalm 37:2

For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb.

Psalm 37:3

Trust in the Lord, and do good; so shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed.

Psalm 37:4

Delight thyself also in the Lord; and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart.

Psalm 37:5

Commit thy way unto the Lord; trust also in him; and he shall bring it to pass.

Mary told Jesus they had no wine and Jesus told her mine hour is not yet come. Mary saith unto the servants, whatsoever he saith unto you, do it. Let me ask you. Is Jesus speaking to you through the power of the Holy Ghost of God, knocking upon your heart's door and wanting you to make some changes in your life? Jesus turned water into wine. It is impossible for you, me or anyone else but through Jesus it is possible. Jesus changed water into wine. Do you think you can make some changes in your life through him? No one is perfect. We are all sinners saved by the precious grace of God through the virgin birth, the death and shed blood of Jesus Christ the son of the Almighty God. By and through his resurrection, we have the gift of eternal life. Praise God.

Jeremiah 18:1

The worth which came to Jeremiah from the Lord, saying,

Jeremiah 18:2

Arise, and go down to the potter's house, and there I will cause thee to hear my words.

Jeremiah 18:3

Then I went down to the potter's house, and, behold, he wrought a work on the wheels.

Jeremiah 18:4

And the vessel that he made of clay was marred in the hand of the potter: so he made it again another vessel, as seemed good to the potter to make it.

Jeremiah 18:5

Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying,

Jeremiah 18:6

O house of Israel, cannot I do with you as this potter? saith the Lord. Behold, as the clay is in the potter's hand, so are ye in mine hand, O house of Israel.

We are clay in the hands of the potter; the dust of the earth. I want to say, by and through Jesus Christ, our impossibilities can be changed into victories if we seek him and let him. Can you believe? Have you the faith? If you want these changes made, there is nothing impossible with God. No matter what, the Lord is dealing with you to make changes in your life. He can help you make those changes if you do like Mary told the servants. She said, "Whatsoever he saith to you, do it." Can you believe? Have you the faith? We as Christians are not yet perfect. There are a lot of mars in our lives. A lot of things seem impossible to us but through Christ, we can be victorious. Are there some changes you need to make in your life? If so, move up closer in your spiritual relationship with God. Seek God for his fullness in your Christian life.

John 2:6

And there were set there six waterpots of stone, after the manner of the purifying of the Jews, containing two or three firkins apiece.

John 2:7

Jesus saith unto them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim.

John 2:8

And he saith unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast. And they bare it.

John 2:9

When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, and knew not whence it was: (but the servants which drew the water knew;) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom.

John 2:10

And saith unto him, Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine; and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse; but thou hast kept the good wine until now.

Notice here what happened in the need of wine, the impossibility of turning water in to wine. With Jesus in the midst and in complete control, the impossibility became wine through our Lord and Savior. Jesus can make changes in your life if you let him have complete control of the problem and let him do it on his time and his way. His way was with six waterpots filled to the brim; the fullness of God's power through his son Jesus. No matter how full your life is with troubles, heartaches or trials, you can turn your impossibilities into victories through Jesus Christ our Lord. Surrender, today, it all in his hands. Notice, too, they drank up the other wine first and saved the wine Jesus made for last. A lot of times, we try everything else first. It isn't until we have tried everything else and all is over before we call on the Lord to help us out. Notice, too, the best was last. What Jesus did was perfect. It wasn't half done but precise. We need to let Jesus work in our lives. We need to make some changes, get the mars out of our lives and live for God. Would there be anything, today, that is standing in your way and keeping you from walking closer to God?

Scripture Reading – John 11:1-46 (Read Scripture First)

John 11:32

Then when Mary was come where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.

John 11:33

When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping which came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled.

John 11:34

And said, Where have ye laid him? They said unto him, Lord, come and see.

John 11:35

Jesus wept.

Jesus wept. He groaned in the spirit and was troubled. I say that Jesus is still concerned about you and me today. He wants to do to the sinner what he did for Lazarus. He wants to raise them up from the dead; raise them out of the grave of sin, hell and death. He wants to set the sinner free from their sins. Jesus wants to turn your death in to an eternal and everlasting life. Although you may think it is impossible, it isn't. Through the death, the blood and the resurrection of Jesus Christ, you can be born again in to the spirit of the living God.

John 11:36

Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him!

John 11:37

And some of them said, Could not this man, which opened the eyes of the blind, have caused that even this man should not have died?

John 11:38

Jesus therefore again groaning in himself cometh to the grave. It was a cave, and a stone lay upon it.

John 11:39

Jesus said, Take ye away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time he stinketh: for he hath been dead four days.

Jesus wept. But, he told them to take ye away the stone. Can you, today, sinners open up your heart to Jesus as liken to this stone and be rolled away so he can work in your life? Can you accept him in your life for what he did for you at Calvary? Will you let Jesus take that old carnal, sin-sick heart of yours which is impossible for us to do anything with? But, it is not impossible with God. You may feel like you are hopeless but you are not. And, you may feel like God doesn't love you but he does.

John 3:16

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

John 3:17

For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.

Jesus died for all of those who would come and believe. But, you must first take away the stone. What I mean by this is you have to open up your heart to the living God as humble as a child.

John 11:39

Jesus said, Take ye away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time he stinketh: for he hath been dead four days.

Mary said, "Lord by this time he stinketh: for he hath been dead four days." Impossible, you think. I don't care how much you stink with the sins of this world or how long you have walked in the hog pens of life, Jesus Christ can turn the impossible into victory through his shed blood. Just how clean do you want to be? I pray you will choose to be washed in the precious blood of the lamb and be washed whiter than snow. Lazarus laid four days in the grave and stinking.

John 11:40

Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thee, that, if thou wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God?

John 11:41

Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid. And Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me.

John 11:42

And I knew that thou hearest me always: but because of the people which stand by I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me.

John 11:43

And when he thus had spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth.

Jesus cried with a loud voice, "Lazarus come forth." Let me ask you. Does the Lord want to turn your life around and make it better? Is the Lord dealing with your heart to work an impossibility out of your life? Will you let him? Today, will you arise out of the grave of sin, hell and death to answer the call of Jesus speaking to you? Remember, Mary told them to do whatsoever he asks. Lazarus was dead; he had been dead for four days.

John 11:44

And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with graveclothes: and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go.

Lazarus came forth and Jesus told them to loose him and let him go. I don't care how dead in sin you are, how much you stink, how bound down in sin you are or how wrapped up in sin you may be. Jesus told them to loose him and let him go. Turn an impossibility into victory through Jesus Christ our Lord and Savior. Christians, I don't care how bound you are by Satan; Jesus can loose you and set you free. Christians, will you let Jesus turn things around in your life and be loosed from every weight and thing that so easily besets you to receive the fullness of God in your heart and life? Through prayer and patience, you can let Jesus work a work in your life. If you are out there, lost and undone before the face of God, listen to what Jesus said. Take away the stone, open your heart with heartfelt repentance as humble as a child and let Jesus turn your miserable and impossible life around through his precious blood. Accept what Jesus has done for you and come forth out of the sins of the world. Be loose and set free through the precious blood of Jesus Christ.

John 11:45

Then many of the Jews which came to Mary, and had seen the things which Jesus did, believed on him.

John 11:46

But some of them went their ways to the Pharisees, and told them what things Jesus had done.

Turn an impossibility into victory through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Scripture Reading – Exodus 14 (Read Scripture First)

We all know the story of Moses and the children of Israel crossing the Red Sea, impossible you think, on dry ground.

Exodus 14:13

And Moses said unto the people, Fear ye not, stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord, which he will show to you to day: for the Egyptians whom ye have seen to day, ye shall see them again no more for ever.

Turn an impossibility into victory through Jesus Christ our Lord. No matter how small or how big your impossibility may seem, from water to wine to parting the Red Sea, God loves you and wants to be in the fullness of your heart and life. He wants to help you. But, you must first take away the stone and open your heart. Pharaoh's army was destroyed and Moses led the children of Israel out of the Egyptian's bondage by the power of the Almighty God. They crossed over from bondage into the land of Canaan, the Promised Land, with God before them. We can live in the land of milk and honey, in the land of Canaan and in the Promised Land when we let God have the fullness of our hearts and lives.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

II Corinthians 12:1

It is not expedient for me doubtless to glory. I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord.

II Corinthians 12:2

I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago, (whether in the body, I cannot tell; or whether out of the body, I cannot tell: God knoweth;) such an one caught up to the third heaven.

II Corinthians 12:3

And I knew such a man, (whether in the body, or out of the body, I cannot tell: God knoweth;)

II Corinthians 12:4

How that he was caught up into paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter.

II Corinthians 12:5

Of such an one will I glory: yet of myself I will not glory, but in mine infirmities.

II Corinthians 12:6

For though I would desire to glory, I shall not be a fool; for I will say the truth: but now I forbear, lest any man should think of me above that which he seeth me to be, or that he heareth of me.

II Corinthians 12:7

And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure.

II Corinthians 12:8

For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me.

II Corinthians 12:9

And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me.

II Corinthians 12:10

Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake: for when I am weak, then am I strong.

Sometimes there are things in our lives we pray about or seek to have changed. But, they are not changed. However, they are still not impossible to God. Just as Paul with the thorn in his flesh; God knew. We, through the Lord, can let God use our infirmities to keep us where we need to be. I praise God for the thorn in my flesh that keeps me where I need to be with the Lord.

II Corinthians 12:10

Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake: for when I am weak, then am I strong.

Sometimes God doesn't change everything we ask.

II Corinthians 12:9

And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me.

My grace is sufficient for thee. Let God change the things he desires to change. The things God will not change, praise him. My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness.

~~~~~

The foundation of your life may be shaken and cracked. You may fall weak and your faith may be overrun by fear. All may seem so hopeless. And, you may feel like your life is crumbling out from under you and you can't seem to get all the pieces back together. Look up with your heart unto the true and living God. Seek peace in Jesus our Lord and surrender it all into his hands. Let it go and give it up. Give it to Christ our Lord because you cannot bear it on your own or without his help. He will deliver you but you must believe.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

The child was troubled and the Lord sent his breath upon the breast of the flower that moved it back and forth. Be not troubled, my child, for I am with you. He sent the rain upon the flowers of the field. His tears watered them to say be of good cheer, my child, for I am here for you. His spirit moved and the sunlight pierced through the dark clouds that hung over him. Take my hand, my child. Be not afraid and walk with me; I will bring you through. And the troubled child looked up with his heart and believed. The Lord moved and delivered him; he set him free. The child spoke from his heart and told the Lord he was the greatest of all.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Reaching Forward

Have You the Faith to Charge Hell with a Bucket of Water?

Thought to Keep in Mind – Matthew 17:14-21

Matthew 17:14

And when they were come to the multitude, there came to him a certain man, kneeling down to him, and saying,

Matthew 17:15

Lord, have mercy on my son: for he is lunatick, and sore vexed: for ofttimes he falleth into the fire, and oft into the water.

Matthew 17:16

And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not cure him.

Matthew 17:17

Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall I suffer you? bring him hither to me.

Matthew 17:18

And Jesus rebuked the devil; and he departed out of him: and the child was cured from that very hour.

Matthew 17:19

Then came the disciples to Jesus apart, and said, Why could not we cast him out?

Matthew 17:20

And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief: for verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you.

Matthew 17:21

Howbeit this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting.

How is your faith today? Have you the faith to charge hell with a bucket of water.

Background Scripture – Daniel 1-2 (Read Scripture First)

Scripture Reading – Daniel 3 (Read Scripture First)

Daniel 1:6

Now among these were of the children of Judah, Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah:

Daniel 1:7

Unto whom the prince of the eunuchs gave names: for he gave unto Daniel the name of Belteshazzar; and to Hananiah, of Shadrach; and to Mishael, of Meshach; and to Azariah, of Abednego.

Daniel's, Hananiah's, Mishael's and Azariah's names were changed. We'll find, by studying about the names, that in Hebrew Daniel meant God is my judge, Hananiah meant the grace of the Lord, Mishael meant he that is the strong God and Azariah meant the Lord is a help. Their names in Hebrew worshipped the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob; the God of Israel our God, the great one. Their names were changed and they were given the names of Chaldean Idolity. Daniel's name was changed to Belteshazzar which meant keeper of hidden secret. Hananiah's name was changed to Shadrach which meant inspiration of the sun which the Chaldeans worshipped. Mishael's name was changed to Meshach which meant the goddess Shach under which the name Venus was worshipped. Azariah's name was changed to Abednego which meant the servant of the shining fire which they worshipped also. They may have changed their names but they didn't change their hearts or their love for God.

Daniel 3:1

Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold, whose height was threescore cubits, and the breadth thereof six cubits: he set it up in the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon.

Daniel 3:2

Then Nebuchadnezzar the king sent to gather together the princes, the governors, and the captains, the judges, the treasurers, the counsellors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of the provinces, to come to the dedication of the image which Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up.

Daniel 3:3

Then the princes, the governors, and captains, the judges, the treasurers, the counsellors, the sheriffs and all the rulers of the provinces, were gathered together unto the dedication of the image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up; and they stood before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up.

Daniel 3:4

Then an herald cried aloud, To you it is commanded, O people, nations, and languages,

Daniel 3:5

That at what time ye hear the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, dulcimer, and all kinds of musick, ye fall down and worship the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king hath set up:

Daniel 3:6

And whoso falleth not down and worshippeth shall the same hour be cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace.

Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold and at the sound of the music they were to instantly fall down and worship the golden image.

Daniel 3:6

And whoso falleth not down and worshippeth shall the same hour be cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace.

We saw the consequences of those that didn't fall down and worship the golden image. How is your faith, Christians? Have you the faith of the three Hebrew children to charge hell with a bucket of water; to stand for God and fight for Jesus in the time of trials and tribulations?

Hebrew 11:6

But without faith it is impossible to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him.

I wonder, does the church world have the faith to stand for God against the enemy? A lot of times, you can hardly get anyone to raise their hand and praise God or to testify and even move for God and witness to a dark and dying world. Because, a lot of people are afraid of what someone might say or think. Here were three Hebrew children facing the fiery flames of the furnace. It is hard to get people, today, off the church pews to move for God. I thought about, in the story of the golden image, how Nebuchadnezzar made an image for them to worship. In Exodus 32, the children of Israel got Aaron to make the golden calf; he made it out of the golden earrings of the children of Israel. The Lord sent Moses back down off the mountain because God said they had corrupted themselves.

Exodus 32:1

And when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down out of the mount, the people gathered themselves together unto Aaron, and said unto him, Up, make us gods, which shall go before us; for as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.

Exodus 32:2

And Aaron said unto them, Break off the golden earrings, which are in the ears of your wives, or your sons, and of your daughters, and bring them unto me.

Exodus 32:3

And all the people brake off the golden earrings which were in their ears, and brought them unto Aaron.

Exodus 32:4

And he received them at their hand, and fashioned it with a graving tool, after he had made it a molten calf: and they said, These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.

Exodus 32:11

And Moses besought the Lord his God, and said, Lord, why doth thy wrath wax hot against thy people, which thou hast brought forth out of the land of Egypt with great power, and with a mighty hand?

Exodus 32:12

Wherefore should the Egyptians speak, and say, For mischief did he bring them out, to slay them in the mountains, and to consume them from the face of the earth? Turn from thy fierce wrath, and repent of this evil against thy people.

Exodus 32:13

Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, thy servants, to whom thou swarest by thine own self, and saidst unto them, I will multiply your seed as the stars of heaven, and all this land that I have spoken of will I give unto your seed, and they shall inherit it for ever.

Exodus 32:14

And the Lord repented of the evil which he thought to do unto his people.

The Lord repented of the evil which he thought to do unto his people. It came to pass that Moses came near the camp. When he saw the calf and their dancing, Moses' anger waxed hot. Moses took the calf and destroyed it.

Exodus 32:25

And when Moses saw that the people were naked; (for Aaron had made them naked unto their shame among their enemies:)

Exodus 32:26

Then Moses stood in the gate of the camp, and said, Who is on the Lord's side? let him come unto me. And all the sons of Levi gathered themselves together unto him.

Who is on the Lord's side? Let him come unto me. I believe we as Christians need to come out from among the filth of the world and be a separate people, a light to a darkened, dying world.

Exodus 32:28

And the children of Levi did according to the word of Moses: and there fell of the people that day about three thousand men.

It was all because they worshipped the golden calf. They put other gods before Jesus. Are you willing to suffer the consequences?

Nahum 1:2

God is jealous, and the Lord revengeth; the Lord revengeth, and is furious; the Lord will take vengeance on his adversaries, and he reserveth wrath for his enemies.

Nahum 1:3

The Lord is slow to anger, and great in power, and will not at all acquit the wicked: the Lord hath his way in the whirlwind and in the storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet.

God is a jealous God and the Lord revengeth. I wonder, how many gods do a lot of people have, today? I'm talking about the little gods that keep them from giving their all to Jesus; the gods that are put before the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. How many golden images will you refuse to worship? Are there any little gods in your life?

Exodus 20:4

Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth:

Exodus 20:5

Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I the Lord thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the feathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me;

Exodus 20:6

And shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love me, and keep my commandments.

How is your faith? Will you be able to reject the gods of the world and not bow down to them?

Daniel 3:7

Therefore at that time, when all the people heard the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, an all kinds of musick, all the people, the nations, and the languages, fell down and worshipped the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up.

Daniel 3:8

Wherefore at that time certain Chaldeans came near, and accused the Jews.

Daniel 3:9

They spake and said to the king Nebuchadnezzar, O king, live for ever.

Daniel 3:10

Thou, O king, hast made a decree, that every man that shall hear the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and dulcimer, and all kinds of musick, shall fall down and worship the golden image:

Daniel 3:11

And whoso falleth not down and worshippeth, that he should be cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace.

Thou, O king, made a decree that every man that shall hear the music shall fall down to worship the image or face the fiery furnace. Are you, church world, going to stand up and be counted for the cause of Christ? Are you going to join the bandwagon? Because everyone else does it, will you do it because you will be afraid you might be a little different? Have you the faith and the love of God to stand up for what is right? Will you stand against sin and place your life on the line for the testimony of Jesus Christ? When the O king, Nebuchadnezzar, said fall down and worship the image, there were three Hebrew children who stood their ground for God.

Daniel 3:12

There are certain Jews whom thou hast set over the affairs of the province of Babylon, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego; these men, O king, have not regarded thee: they serve not thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up.

Daniel 3:13

Then Nebuchadnezzar in his rage and fury commanded to bring Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Then they brought these men before the king.

Daniel 3:14

Nebuchadnezzar spake, and said unto them, Is it true, O Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, do not ye serve my gods, nor worship the golden image which I have set up?

Church world, Christians, how do you stand today? People are afraid to raise their hands to praise God or even to testify. How will it be for God's people in the latter days? Will they be like Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego? Will you search your heart out? Only you and God know what you will do. We need to stand up and be counted for Christ. The king told them to bow down and worship. We need to choose whom we will serve in our hearts and lives. I pray you will choose Jesus the son of the almighty God for there will come a time when God says it is time.

Philippians 2:10

That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth;

Philippians 2:11

And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.

That everybody's knee should bow and every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is King of Kings and Lord of Lords.

Daniel 3:15

Now if ye be ready that at what time ye hear the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and dulcimer, and all kinds of musick, ye fall down and worship the image which I have made; well: but if ye worship not, ye shall be cast the same hour into the midst of a burning fiery furnace; and who is that God that shall deliver you out of my hands?

The king asked who is that God that shall deliver you out of my hands. It is that same God, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob? Wasn't it the God of Israel who brought the children of Israel out of the bondage of Egypt and brought them across the Red Sea on dry ground?

John 3:16

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

John 3:17

For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.

That same God sent his only begotten son who was born of the virgin birth and born without spot or blemish by the shedding of Jesus' blood and by his death. Through Jesus Christ we are forgiven of our sins and have the gift of eternal life because of his resurrection. That same God made a way for you, me and all those who would come, believe and accept his son Jesus by faith and by the way of the old rugged cross. Sin brought death, hell and destruction. Jesus brought forgiveness, heaven and eternal life. That same God that delivered the three Hebrew children is still delivering his people today.

Philippians 1:21

For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.

How is your faith? Do you think you have the faith to charge hell with a bucket of water?

Matthew 17:20

And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief: for verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you.

The three Hebrew children said our God will deliver and even if he doesn't, we will still serve him. When God moves and works in our lives and he doesn't answer our prayer, will we still serve him?

Daniel 3:16

Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, answered and said to the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful to answer thee in this matter.

Daniel 3:17

If it be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of thine hand, O king.

Daniel 3:18

But if not, be it known unto thee, O king, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up.

Daniel 3:19

Then was Nebuchadnezzar full of fury, and the form of his visage was changed against Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego: therefore he spake, and commanded that they should heat the furnace one seven times more than it was wont to be heated.

Daniel 3:20

And he commanded the most mighty men that were in his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and to cast them into the burning fiery furnace.

Daniel 3:21

Then these men were bound in their coats, their hosen, and their hats, and their other garments, and were cast into the midst of the burning fiery furnace.

Daniel 3:22

Therefore because the king's commandment was urgent, and the furnace exceeding hot, the flame of the fire slew those men that took up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.

Daniel 3:23

And these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, fell down bound into the midst of the burning fiery furnace.

Daniel 3:24

Then Nebuchadnezzar the king was astonied, and rose up in haste, and spake, and said unto his counsellors, Did not we cast three men bound into the midst of the fire? They answered and said unto the king, True, O king.

Daniel 3:25

He answered and said, Lo, I see four men loose, walking in the midst of the fire, and they have no hurt; and the form of the fourth is like the Son of God.

Nebuchadnezzar, full of fury, heated the furnace seven times greater than normal. They bound the three Hebrew children and cast them into the fiery furnace.

I Peter 1:7

Then the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honour and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ:

Christians, have you ever been through a fiery furnace? The fires I am talking about are the trials of your faith in this walk of life. We have all been tried. We all walk through the fire, sometimes, in our Christian life. But, you notice, they cast three into the fire but the O king looked and saw there were four; one of them being like the son of God. They were loose and walking around in the midst of the fire. That is the same way it is with us. When we are in the heat of the battle, Jesus is there in the midst. Nebuchadnezzar said, "Who is this God that shall deliver you out of my hands." He was the one that was in the midst of the fire with his children. Have you the faith, today, to charge hell with a bucket of water? If you do, Jesus will be there with you. There is nothing that can come against you that Jesus can not deliver you from. Do you have the faith of a mustard seed?

Romans 8:35

Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?

Romans 8:36

As it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day long; we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter.

Romans 8:37

Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us.

Romans 8:38

For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,

Romans 8:39

Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.

If Jesus is with us, what shall we fear?

II Timothy 1:7

For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.

Jesus said, "Fear not, for I am with you."

Daniel 3:26

Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the mouth of the burning fiery furnace, and spake, and said, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, ye servants of the most high God, come forth, and come hither. Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, came forth of the midst of the fire.

Daniel 3:27

And the princes, governors, and captains, and the king's counsellors, being gathered together, saw these men, upon whose bodies the fire had no power, nor was an hair of their head singed, neither were their coats changed, nor the smell of the fire had passed on them.

Not a hair on their head was singed nor the smell of fire had passed on them. Can you believe that God can deliver? How is your faith today? Can you think of or ever read in the Bible where God half way did anything or Jesus half way did anything? You will not find it because my God is a total and complete deliverer.

Daniel 3:28

Then Nebuchadnezzar spake, and said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who hath sent his angel, and delivered his servants that trusted in him, and have changed the king's word, and yielded their bodies, that they might not serve nor worship any god, except their own God.

Daniel 3:29

Therefore I make a decree, That every people, nation, and language, which speak any thing amiss against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, shall be cut in pieces, and their houses shall be made a dunghill: because there is no other God that can deliver after this sort.

Daniel 3:30

Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, in the province of Babylon.

Have you the faith, today, to charge hell with a bucket of water? Here were three Hebrew children God did deliver. Will you let him deliver you?

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Matthew 17:14

And when they were come to the multitude, there came to him a certain man, kneeling down to him, and saying,

Matthew 17:15

Lord, have mercy on my son: for he is lunatick, and sore vexed: for ofttimes he falleth into the fire, and oft into the water.

Matthew 17:16

And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not cure him.

Matthew 17:17

Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall I suffer you? bring him hither to me.

Matthew 17:18

And Jesus rebuked the devil; and he departed out of him: and the child was cured from that very hour.

Matthew 17:19

Then came the disciples to Jesus apart, and said, Why could not we cast him out?

Matthew 17:20

And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief: for verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you.

Matthew 17:21

Howbeit this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting.

Will you, Christians, stand up and be counted for Jesus? Would you lay your life on the line for the testimony of Jesus Christ and for him? Remember, he died for you.

~~~~~

Life is sometimes like the handicapped that Jesus healed. We are blinded by things that hold us back. We are crippled and lamed by things that bring us down. We have issues that rob and steal us from our joys and blessings. We are deaf and dumb to things that hinder our closeness with the Lord. Sometimes, we are dead in our faith, weak and full of fear. We are liken unto the man with the withered hand. There are some things in our lives that are just not right or where they ought to be. Jesus can heal all of those handicaps in our lives and restore them whole again. All we have to do is give them to him and believe.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

As the rising sun from the east peeps through, I will not fear or be afraid. For, I know in my heart and spirit the Lord is with me. I will not be troubled. I will not be uneasy or doubt for this day because the Lord has blessed me another day. I shall walk with him humbly but yet steadfast in him. No matter what awaits me or when the sun rests upon the breast of the earth, at the close of the day, I know with him I can make it through. I know I have walked in the victory with him. As the sun slowly disappears and night falls, I can say it has been a good day with the Lord.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Reaching Forward

The Yoke of Bondage

Thought to Keep in Mind:

Galatians 5:1

Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free, and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage.

Christians, are you at liberty in Christ or are you bound down and entangled with the yoke of bondage? There are countless numbers of Christians, today, in the bondage of the devil. They have lost their liberty in Christ Jesus. They are in chains and shackles of the bondage of the devil which is keeping them from having the fullness of God and his blessing in their life. How is it with you?

Galatians 5:9

A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump.

Scripture Reading – John 11:1-46 (Read Scripture First)

We all know the story of how Lazarus of Bethany was sick and when Jesus heard he was sick, he abode two days and afterward went to him. When Jesus came, he found Lazarus had died and lain in the grave four days. Martha said unto Jesus, "Lord if thou hadst been here my brother would not have died." But, Jesus said unto her, "Thy brother shall rise again." I think about how easy it is for Christians, today, to be so entangled in the yoke of bondage. There are Christians, today, bound down in fear; fear from the devil. Fear that is robbing them from the fullness of God's blessings in their heart and life.

II Timothy 1:7

For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.

God has not given us the spirit of fear. There are Christians, today, walking in fear and bondage that is robbing them from the fullness of God and his blessings. It is stealing the joy of their salvation and crippling them in their walk of faith.

I John 4:18

There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear: because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love.

John said, "Fear haveth torment." Timothy said, "God has not given us the spirit of fear but of a sound mind." The Christian walking in perfect love walks not in fear. They are walking each day in a total, committed heart, mind and life with God and in the true obedience of God by faith and love in Christ.

Romans 8:15

For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear; but ye have received the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father.

Christians, are you walking in fear or perfect love? Will you, today, put your complete trust in the Lord? Will you cast your care upon him and put it all in God's hands through his son Jesus? Jesus said, "Lazarus shall rise again." Will you rise up beyond the yoke of your bondage and be at liberty, once again, in the Lord Jesus? There are Christians bound down in their hearts and minds by material things and little gods in their lives. By worshipping them, they are being robbed of God's fullness in their lives. Those little gods are stealing away the people's love of God.

I Timothy 6:7

For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out.

I Timothy 6:8

And having food and raiment let us be therewith content.

I Timothy 6:9

But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition.

I Timothy 6:10

For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.

I Timothy 6:11

But thou, O man of God, flee these things; and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness.

How many golden calves, Christians, have you bound down in the yoke of bondage? Is the dollar sign an idol in your heart? The Bible lets us know the love of money is the root of all evil. The love of it, not the money, is the root of all evil; the attitude toward it, the love.

Matthew 6:24

No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.

Maybe you need to change some of your loves and attitudes about some things. Come out from among the idol worshipping of this world and go back to the true and living God. Maybe, Christians, you have left your first love. However, I believe, you can arise up out of the yoke of bondage you are in and be resurrected into a newness of life in Christ Jesus. Choose, today, which one you love the most. Which one do you want to serve?

Matthew 6:19

Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal:

Matthew 6:20

But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal:

Matthew 6:21

For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

Find out where your treasures are and you'll find your heart.

I John 2:15

Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him.

I John 2:16

For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world.

I John 2:17

And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof: but he that doeth the will of God abideth for ever.

There are Christians, today, in the yoke of bondage of lust. They are bound in the lust of the flesh and are walking in a spiritual death because of the giving in to their flesh, walking not in the spirit of God but after the flesh.

Galatians 5:16

This I say then, Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfil the lust of the flesh.

Galatians 5:17

For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh: and these are contrary the one to the other: so that ye cannot do the things that ye would.

We as Christians need to crucify the flesh, come out from among it and walk in the spirit of the true and living God. We need to be set free of its hold and be delivered through the blood of Jesus Christ. We need to walk in a victorious life with the fullness of God unto a blessed and happy life. Jesus told Martha, "Thy brother shall live again." Christians, today, if we are in the yoke of bondage in our life, we can be free and victorious again if we come to Jesus and be set free through him. There are all kinds of bondages the devil uses against Christians, today. Prejudice, bitterness, ill will, holding a grudge, envy, strife and pride are just the beginning. What about you? Do you have bondages keeping you back from giving your all to Christ? Are you, today, in your relationship with God, at liberty? If you are not, you can be. Come to Jesus just as you are.

John 11:32

Then when Mary was come where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.

John 11:33

When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping which came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled,

The Bible says Mary came to Jesus and fell down at his feet. Christians, if things are not right in your spiritual walk with God and not like they used to be, I pray you reach up to Jesus, fall down at his feet beneath the old rugged cross and let him work a work in your life. Let him set you free from the yoke of bondage, whatever it may be. The Bible said, "Jesus groaned in spirit and was troubled." Jesus loves you today. He wants to do the same for you as he did for Lazarus and that is to set you free.

John 11:34

And said, Where have ye laid him? They said unto him, Lord, come and see.

John 11:35

Jesus wept.

Jesus said, "Where have they laid him?" Will you put your bondage down?

John 11:37

And some of them said, Could not this man, which opened the eyes of the blind, have caused that even this man should not have died?

John 11:38

Jesus therefore again groaning in himself cometh to the grave. It was a cave, and a stone lay upon it.

John 11:39

Jesus said, Take ye away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time he stinketh: for he hath been dead four days.

John 11:40

Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thee, that, if thou wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God?

Notice here Jesus said, "Take ye away the stone." Will you, Christians, do away with that which causes you to be a slave unto your bondage? Will you open up your heart and let Jesus work a work in your heart and life?

Hebrews 12:1

Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us,

Hebrews 12:2

Looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith; who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.

Jesus said, "Take ye away the stone." You must first recognize your bondage, open your heart to him and let him set you free.

Romans 12:1

I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service.

Romans 12:2

And be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God.

If we are to make heaven our home, we must walk a clean, holy and honest walk with God. And, have a full, devoted and dedicated life with God. Too many Christians, today, are crippled and handicapped by the bondage of Satan. It keeps them from fully committing themselves to Christ because they have given in to their weak desires. They are letting those things rule over their spiritual life instead of being in liberty and walking with Christ Jesus in a blessed life. But, yet, they are walking in a defeated life of bondage. They need to come out and rise above the bondage of the devil and hold fast to God. For, if we are saved and born again, we are not a slave unto the flesh but a child of the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords.

Psalm 23

The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies: thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life: and I will dwell in the house of the Lord for ever.

Don't be defeated, Christians. Walk in the power of the Almighty God through the Holy Ghost of God in all power and strength through his living word, through the blood of Jesus and through his spirit. Be free and at liberty in the Lord. Draw nigh unto God and resist the devil. Whatever stronghold the devil has on you, take it to Jesus. Be victorious through him and walk in his spirit. Crucify thyself and the flesh. Get away from the carnal mind. Dwell your mind and thoughts upon spiritual things which are good and not of the things of this world. Maybe you have some problems with dirty language, dirty jokes, smoking, lying, jealousy, vanity and vain glory. There are many bondages the devil uses to rob Christians from God's full blessing. Search them out through his spirit. Conquer them through his blood and be at liberty with the Lord in every aspect of your walk with God. It is not always the big things that destroy. The little things that work in your life slowly tear you down from the foundation that you stand upon. Over a period of time, the slow decay will do more damage than sudden destruction. Some of the greatest empires in the world were slowly destroyed from the inside out. They failed to get the victory over the little things because their eyes were upon the big things. It is the same way with you. Be steadfast and be unmovable in the power of the living God. Be in control. Be at liberty in Christ Jesus and the finished work at Calvary. Search out your bondage and be set free through Jesus, today. The Lord wants to be the fullness in your heart and life. He doesn't want the devil to have any stronghold on you. He wants you free and at liberty to worship and serve him in spirit and truth. The devil has strongholds. Where there is the yoke of bondage, there is no liberty. What, today, would rob you of God's blessings? What would be the defeat in your life? Give it to Jesus. Roll away the stone. Open your heart and cry out unto God for his fullness in your heart and life.

John 11:41

Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid. And Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me.

John 11:42

And I knew that thou hearest me always: but because of the people which stand by I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me.

John 11:43

And when he thus had spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth.

John 11:44

And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with graveclothes: and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go.

John 11:45

Then many of the Jews which came to Mary, and had seen the things which Jesus did, believed on him.

They rolled away the stone and Jesus cried with a loud voice, "Lazarus come forth." Christians, those that are in bondage, is Jesus dealing with your heart to come forth unto him beneath the old rugged cross and be set free? Will you receive liberty, once again, back into your heart and life? Jesus said, "Lazarus come forth." It is time for you to take a step forward unto liberty, unto the Lord Jesus Christ? Will you come? Will you step forth? And the Bible said in John 11:44 – And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with graveclothes: and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go. Come, today, just as you are. Bring the bondages to Christ Jesus and walk, today, toward the light; the eternal light of the world. Walk out of the dark bondages of Satan and that which has you bound hand and foot with graveclothes and your face covered with defeat. Jesus said, "Loose him and let him go." Will you come? Will you be set free from the yoke of bondage in your life until the fullness of God's blessings come through his son Jesus Christ?

Romans 8:1

There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit.

Romans 8:2

For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me free from the law of sin and death.

Romans 8:3

For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh:

Romans 8:4

That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.

Romans 8:5

For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh; but they that are after the Spirit the things of the Spirit.

Romans 8:6

For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace.

Romans 8:7

Because the carnal mind is enmity against God: for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be.

Romans 8:8

So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God.

How is it with you? Are you ready and prepared, this very moment, for the second coming of Christ? Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead, a man who had been dead for four days and stinking. Jesus went on to suffer and die for your sins, my sins and the sins of the world. He rose up from the dead. Do you believe, today, Jesus can set you free from the yoke of bondage? Can you believe? Will you let Jesus loose you and set you free?

John 11:45

Then many of the Jews which came to Mary, and had seen the things which Jesus did, believed on him.

Will you, today, be one of those who will believe?

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Romans 8:35

Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?

Romans 8:36

As it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day long; we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter.

Romans 8:37

Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us.

Romans 8:38

For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,

Romans 8:39

Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.

Do you want out of that yoke of bondage the devil has you entangled in? Do you want the complete fullness of God in your heart and life through his son?

1. Jesus said, "Roll away the stone." (Open your heart unto him.)

2. Jesus said, "Lazarus come forth." (Jesus is calling. You must take the next step forth.)

3. Jesus said, "Loose him and let him go." (Put it all in Jesus' hands.)

~~~~~

Sometimes, when storms arise in my life or even when things are good, I can't help but look up toward the sky and find peace. Although I may see only clouds, I know in my heart that my Lord Jesus is up there. I know because I feel him in my heart and his spirit moves gracefully within my mind and so much unspeakable joy fills my soul. He is alive and living.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

The rim of darkness may linger around the edges of my life and the hope of tomorrow may be weak. My dreams of a new day linger about me. I count it all joy. For in my heart, I know and believe. When my time comes, I am ready for my call home with my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, God's son. In Christ Jesus, I have gained true peace of mind and I'm overflowing with the joy of life. For, I have accepted him and he has accepted me. I have walked with him in faith, step by step each day and mile by mile. My time may linger but my departure is near. When he calls, I am ready to depart from here.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Reaching Forward

For by Grace Are ye Saved Through Faith

Thought to Keep in Mind:

Matthew 5:17

Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets: I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill.

Matthew 5:18

For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled.

I want to talk to you, today, about Jesus Christ and the fulfillment of the Law of God. I want you to think on this thought; for by grace are ye saved through faith.

Scripture Reading – John 8:1-11 (Read Scripture First)

John 8:1

Jesus went unto the mount of Olives.

John 8:2

And early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came unto him; and he sat down, and taught them.

John 8:3

And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery; and when they had set her in the midst,

John 8:4

They say unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act.

John 8:5

Now Moses in the law commanded us, that such should be stoned: but what sayest thou?

John 8:6

This they said, tempting him, that they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not.

John 8:7

So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her.

John 8:8

And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground.

And, early in the morning, Jesus came again into the temple and he sat down and taught them. The Scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery. And unto him they said, "Master, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act." Now Moses, in the law, commanded us that such should be stoned but what sayest thou.

John 8:6

This they said, tempting him, that they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not.

Jesus lifted up himself and said unto them, "He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her." Again, Jesus stooped down and wrote on the ground. I don't know what Jesus wrote that day upon the ground but I want to go back to the beginning where there was war in heaven.

Isaiah 14:12

How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! how art thou cut down to the ground, which didst weaken the nations!

Isaiah 14:13

For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God: I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation, in the sides of the north:

Isaiah 14:14

I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will be like the most High.

Isaiah 14:15

Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell, to the sides of the pit.

Isaiah 14:16

They that see thee shall narrowly look upon thee, and consider thee, saying, Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did shake kingdoms;

Lucifer and a third of the angels were cast out of heaven and cast down into hell. The Bible asks, "Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did shake kingdoms?" In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth and all things that is and was. God said that it was good.

Genesis 2:8

And the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he put the man whom he had formed.

Genesis 2:9

And out of the ground made the Lord God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.

Genesis 2:15

And the Lord God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it.

Genesis 2:16

And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat:

Genesis 2:17

But of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.

The Lord God said, "It is not good that the man should be alone." So, the Lord God made woman.

Genesis 2:25

And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.

Now, the serpent came unto the woman and said unto her, "Yea, hath God said, ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?" And the woman said unto the serpent, "We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden."

Genesis 3:3

But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die.

Genesis 3:4

And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die:

The woman saw that the tree was good for food and it was pleasant to the eyes. She took of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil and gave it to Adam. Adam took of the fruit and they did eat.

Romans 5:12

Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:

Romans 5:13

(For until the law sin was in the world: but sin is not imputed when there is no law.

Romans 5:14

Nevertheless death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression, who is the figure of him that was to come.

Because of the fall of Adam, sin entered mankind. For, until the law, sin was in the world. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses (from sin and death unto the law). Even over them that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression, which was the figure of him that was to come. It's talking about how Jesus Christ was to come and fulfill the law by grace, mercy and forgiveness, by and through his virgin birth, the shedding of his blood, his suffering death and by the power of his resurrection. In the beginning, sin came because of Adam's disobedience and then the law. The law is the total complete obedience to God. All disobedience would bring sin and sin would bring death. Only through Jesus Christ will a man receive the forgiveness of sin.

Ephesians 2:4

But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us.

Ephesians 2:5

Even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ, (by grace ye are saved;)

Only by and through the precious blood of the true and precious lamb of the living God will a man be set free from death.

Romans 5:19

For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous.

Romans 5:20

Moreover the law entered, that the offence might abound. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound:

Romans 5:21

That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord.

Moreover, the law entered that the offense might abound. That offense is Jesus Christ by and through grace, mercy and forgiveness, by and through his suffering for you and me upon that old rugged cross. He died for all of those who would come and believe. That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord. Jesus fulfilled the law by his virgin birth, his death, his blood and by the power of his resurrection with grace, mercy and forgiveness. Example: In the Old Testament when someone would sin and transgress the law of God, a lot of the time, they would be put to death (by stoning, immediately) with no mercy or forgiveness. But, Jesus Christ came not to destroy the law but to fulfill it. His fulfillment was in his brutal death; he died for the sins of the world, your sins and mine. That same man, under the law, would be put to death. Now, the same man, through Jesus Christ, can cry out unto repentance, unto Jesus and unto God. A God who is rich in mercy through his son Jesus came with grace, mercy and forgiveness (this I believe is the fulfillment of the law). We are forgiven by and through God's love toward us through his son Jesus. For by grace are ye saved through faith. Faith is fully believing and accepting what Jesus has done for you at Calvary. You must accept by faith in your heart, mind and soul with all your strength. Be washed and cleansed in the precious blood of the Lamb of God so you can be set free from sin, death and hell by the finished work upon Calvary's Hill through repentance.

Romans 6:14

For sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not under the law, but under grace.

No, we are not under the law as far as when we sin or are disobedient that we would be stoned to death. But, the law has not changed. It has only been fulfilled through Jesus Christ with grace, mercy and forgiveness. We are living under the speculation of grace. We are living under the fulfillment of God's law.

Romans 6:15

What then? shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but under grace? God forbid.

We are not under the law unto death but under the fulfillment of the law, under grace.

Romans 6:23

For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

The Bible says in Romans 3:23 – For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God;

How is it with you? Are you saved by grace through faith today? Can you accept the finished work at Calvary?

I John 1:5

This then is the message which we have heard of him, and declare unto you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all.

I John 1:6

If we say that we have fellowship with him, and walk in darkness, we lie, and do not the truth:

I John 1:7

But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin.

I John 1:8

If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.

I John 1:9

If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.

I John 1:10

If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.

Because of the fall of Adam and sin, everyone walks in darkness until they make peace with God through his son.

II Peter 2:4

For if God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell, and delivered them into chains of darkness, to be reserved unto judgment;

II Peter 2:5

And spared not the old world, but saved Noah the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness, bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly;

II Peter 2:6

And turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrha into ashes condemned them with an overthrow, making them an ensample unto those that after should live ungodly;

When we accept Christ and are forgiven, we walk then in the light for Jesus is the light; the light of the world.

II Corinthians 4:6

For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.

Have you, today, seen the light? If not, will you give your heart to Jesus?

Romans 6:6

Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin.

Romans 6:7

For he that is dead is freed from sin.

If you as a person can say or believe in your heart, you can live good enough to make heaven your home.

Romans 3:10

As it is written, There is none righteous, no, not one:

The Bible says our righteousness is as filthy rags. A person who believes that decides for himself. We all must come by and through the way of the old rugged cross through repentance unto God through Jesus Christ. No other way will a person be able to live eternally. No other way will a person be saved and born again; it is only by and through the Lord Jesus Christ. I am afraid hell is going to be filled with many good people, along with the bad, simply because they died without Jesus Christ in their heart and life and because their sins were not forgiven and under his blood. It is not God's will that anyone should perish but that all would come to repentance. Would you want the fulfillment of the law of God in your heart and life? Do you want to make heaven your home? Do you want to be saved by grace? Will you come to Jesus just as you are? Will you believe?

Ephesians 2:8

For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God:

God's love, grace and mercy came through his son.

Galatians 3:22

But the scripture hath concluded all under sin, that the promise by faith of Jesus Christ might be given to them that believe.

Galatians 3:23

But before faith came, we were kept under the law, shut up unto the faith which should afterwards be revealed.

Galatians 3:24

Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ, that we might be justified by faith.

Galatians 3:25

But after that faith is come, we are no longer under a schoolmaster.

Galatians 3:26

For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus.

We, today, are not under the law but under grace.

Galatians 3:11

But that not man is justified by the law in the sight of God, it is evident: for, The just shall live by faith.

For by grace are ye saved through faith. How is it with you? Are your sins forgiven? The Scribes and Pharisees brought unto Jesus a woman caught in the act of adultery.

John 8:7

So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her.

How is it with you? Are you covered under the blood of Christ?

John 8:9

And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst.

John 8:10

When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? hath no man condemned thee?

John 8:11

She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT:

Romans 10:13

For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.

Are you prepared for the second coming of Christ? Are you ready, today, to stand before the judgment? If not, I pray you will come to Jesus. Repent, accept and believe in what he has done for you, for me and for all who would come and believe by faith. For, by grace you are saved through faith.

~~~~~

The blessing of being in heaven with Jesus is one the greatest of all miracles that no earthly human words could ever describe. The mansions, the crowns and the rewards are great within themselves; that, too, no words could ever describe. But, to me, the things I so long for my words cannot begin to say. The peace, joy, no more burdens, no more tears, no more trials or troubles, no more parting, no more heartache, no more sickness or pain and no more hurt or sorrow are all the things that mean so much to me and I so long for. Just to be there with Jesus means it all, what a day that will be.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

The morning dew glittered like diamonds as the sun rose up in the east. The light of a new day began to gleam from over the breast of the horizon as the blue sky began to appear and as the fluffy white clouds appeared like mountains and slowly moved across the heavenly blue sky. A gentle breeze began to stir. All of this worked together from the master's heart. The Lord blessed us with a new morning and a new day. As I watched across the heavens, a few birds passed by and a new day began. With hope from our loving heavenly Father, in my heart I will enjoy his blessings and I will not let the enemy get me down. If the Lord can do all of this for me, I know he can bring me through anything that lies ahead. In my heart, I will trust in him.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Reaching Forward

The Road to Hell is paved with Good Intentions

Thought to Keep in Mind:

James 4:13

Go to now, ye that say, To day or to morrow we will go into such a city, and continue there a year, and buy and sell, and get gain:

James 4:14

Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapour, that appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away.

For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanished away. I wonder, have you made preparation for your final destination of where you will spend eternity? Will it be heaven or hell? For what is life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time. How do you stand before a Holy and righteous God? Are you prepared to die and stand before the judgment? Are you saved and forgiven? Are your sins washed in the blood of Jesus Christ the son of God or are you unprepared to die and stand before the judgment?

Hebrews 9:27

And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment:

For what is life? It is even a vapor. What about it, today? Are you prepared to die? The road to hell is paved with good intentions. What about it, today? Have you made plans to die and stand before the judgment?

Scripture Reading – Luke 16:19-31

Luke 16:19

There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day:

Luke 16:20

And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of sores,

Luke 16:21

And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table: moreover the dogs came and licked his sores.

Luke 16:22

And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom: the rich man also died, and was buried;

In the Bible, there was a certain rich man clothed in purple and fine linen and fared sumptuously every day. And, there was a certain beggar named Lazarus which was laid at his gate full of sores. Here was a certain rich man and here was a certain beggar who laid at his gate full of sores. Are you a maybe person? I ask you these questions. Do you keep telling yourself that maybe you'll get right someday? Do you keep saying maybe I will or I know that I need to? Do you keep telling yourself that you are too busy and don't have the time? The road to hell is paved with good intentions. You must first come to the realization that you are lost and undone before the face of God.

Romans 3:10

As it is written, There is none righteous, no, not one:

Romans 3:23

For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God;

Romans 5:12

Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:

Romans 6:23

For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Romans 5:8

But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.

How is it with you, today? How do you stand before God? Here was a certain rich man who probably thought he had it all together. He was probably all wrapped up within himself and his riches but failed to be prepared for his death and the judgment. Maybe he thought within himself that he was just as good as everyone else. He probably thought he had what he needed and didn't need God right then in his life; he assumed everything was real good. There was a certain beggar named Lazarus who somewhere and sometime made peace with God. First, you must realize you are lost, a sinner undone and unprepared to stand before the judgment. Next, you should be drowned by the Holy Spirit of God. Let me ask you, is Jesus knocking upon your heart? Is Jesus dealing with you to be saved and for you to give your heart and life to him? Today is the day of salvation. Will you, today, come? Will you answer the call or are you going to be a maybe person who rejects him and turns him away? Are you constantly saying that maybe you'll get right or you'll get right someday? What is life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time. The road to hell is paved with good intentions. I wonder, when you come to the end of your life's road, will you be prepared? Will you be ready to die or will you have said maybe too much or put the Lord off too long?

Luke 16:21

And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table: moreover the dogs came and licked his sores.

Luke 16:22

And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom: the rich man also died, and was buried;

Lazarus desired to be fed with the crumbs from the rich man's table. Moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores. It came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried.

Luke 16:23

And in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.

In hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments. Hell was created for the devil and his angels. It wasn't created for man or woman. You could probably say, today, that hell is increased every day with people with good intentions. Those who meant to get right with God but failed to do so.

Matthew 3:1

In those days came John the Baptist, preaching in the wilderness of Judaea,

Matthew 3:2

And saying, Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.

And in those days came John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ, preaching repentance for people to repent of their sins and give their heart and life to God.

Matthew 4:17

From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say, Repent: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.

From the time Jesus began to preach, he preached repentance. That same message is true to us this day. Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. The world is full of people with good intentions but the world lacks repentance.

Luke 13:5

I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish.

No other way will you be saved. No other way will you make heaven your home unless you come by and through the blood, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ the son of God. You have to come through repentance unto God, be forgiven and set free of sin, hell and death. The rich man also died and was buried. In hell, he lifted up his eyes being in torments. Maybe he had good intentions, I don't know, the Bible doesn't say. This certain rich man is like a lot of people today. Maybe he had good intentions. Maybe you have good intentions. I don't know the intentions of the rich man and I don't know yours. But, I'll tell you one thing. I don't think it is a very good idea to play games with God. I believe, today, if a survey was taken of all those in hell who had good intentions, the world would shake and tremble. The road to hell is paved with good intentions.

II Peter 3:9

The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness; but is longsuffering us-ward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance.

II Peter 3:10

But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also and the works that are therin shall be burned up.

Are you one of the ones on that road? I wonder, what are your maybes and intentions in your life, death and final eternity? I hope and pray you are heaven bound.

Luke 16:24

And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame.

The rich man cried in hell, "Father Abraham have mercy on me." He cried, "For I am tormented in this flame."

II Peter 3:8

But, beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing, that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.

II Peter 3:9

The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness; but is longsuffering to us-ward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance.

II Peter 3:10

But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also and the works that are therin shall be burned up.

It is not God's will that any should perish but all should come to repentance. God's intention is that all would be saved. I wonder, today, what are your intentions? Are you willing to come? Will you accept God's love in your heart and life?

Matthew 18:11

For the Son of man is come to save that which was lost.

How is it with you? If the trumpet sounded this day and the eastern skies split and Jesus Christ the son of God appeared with the angels proclaiming time shall be no more, will you be left behind with good intentions or will you be carried up with him? Will you meet him in the air unto eternal life? Are you still saying after this or that, I'll get saved? Or, are you saying maybe when I have enjoyed life a little more, I'll get saved? It could be you think you're still young and you have your whole life ahead of you before you'll get right with God. I don't know your intentions and I don't know your heart but I wouldn't put off today for tomorrow because tomorrow may not come. God has made a way for everyone and that is by and through his son Jesus Christ.

John 3:16

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.mk

John 3:17

For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.

By and through the virgin birth, the suffering, the death of His son, by his blood and his resurrection, we'll have the gift of eternal life, if we come. We have to come by God's way, through his son and through repentance. We have to accept by faith the finished and completed work of Christ on the cross at Calvary.

Matthew 7:13

Enter ye in at the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat:

Matthew 7:14

Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.

Will you come? Will you believe? Will you accept? I wonder, what are your intentions? The rich man said, "I am tormented in this flame."

Romans 10:13

For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.

I believe it is a way of repentance; a humble, honest, sincere and Godly sorrow. Lay it all at the foot of the cross and make a complete change in your heart, mind and life. Believe with a whole heart and walk the walk of faith each and every day.

Romans 10:9

That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved.

Romans 10:10

For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation.

Revelation 3:20

Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me.

Jesus said, "Behold, I stand at the door and knock." Will you lay aside your intentions, take action and do something about it? Accept God's love, his son Jesus Christ, in your heart and life right where you are. Don't be one of many on the road of good intentions. But, be a child of God who was bought with the price of the death, blood and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Be ye ready for the second coming of Christ. Be ye ready for the judgment.

Luke 16:25

But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things: but now he is comforted, and thou art tormented.

Luke 16:26

And beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed: so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot; neither can they pass to us, that would come from thence.

Whenever our time shall come, no matter how rich or how poor, how famous or unknown we shall be or how many good intentions we may have, when one dies, it will be too late for good intentions.

Ecclesiastes 11:3

If the clouds be full or rain, they empty themselves upon the earth: and if the tree fall toward the south, or toward the north, in the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be.

However we die, will be how we stand before the judgment. If we die lost, we will stand lost. If we die saved, we will stand saved.

Revelation 20:11

And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away; and there was found no place for them.

Revelation 20:12

And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works.

Revelation 20:13

And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them: and they were judged every man according to their works.

Revelation 20:14

And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death.

Revelation 20:15

And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire.

Is your name, today, written in the Lamb's book of life? I want to say, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. Either it is written or it is not. Either you are saved or you are lost. How do you stand?

Luke 16:27

Then he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou wouldest send him to my father's house:

Luke 16:28

For I have five brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment.

The rich man told Abraham he had five brothers. He asked him to send someone to tell his five brothers lest they also come into this place of torment. Although the rich man had good intentions for his five brothers, it was too late.

Luke 16:29

Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them.

Luke 16:30

And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent.

Luke 16:31

And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead.

My question is, have you made plans to die and stand before the judgment? I wonder, which road have you chosen to travel? Is it the road made of streets of pure gold or is it the road paved with good intentions?

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Revelation 21:1

And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away; and there was no more sea.

Revelation 21:2

And I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.

Revelation 21:3

And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God.

Revelation 21:4

And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away.

John saw a new heaven and a new earth. Will you be a part of it? John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. Will you be a part of it? God shall wipe away all tears. There shall be no more death, sorrow, crying nor pain. Will you be a part of it?

Revelation 22:1

And he shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb.

Revelation 22:2

In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river, was there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month: and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.

Revelation 22:3

And there shall be no more curse: but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it; and his servants shall serve him:

Will you be a part of it? The road to hell is paved with good intentions. Will you be a part of it?

*****

Discover other titles by Bobby A. Troutt at Smashwords.com

Beyond the Truth

A Cry in the Wind

Thistles and Thorns

Dead Limbs and Leaves

Troubled Waters

When Autumn Falls

When Time Was

Bittersweet

Sycamore Tales

Stepping Out on a Limb

Odds n Ends

Turning Point

The Fall of Night

In Times of Quitting

Still Wind, Forgotten Days

In Times of Trouble

Special Moments

The Fall of Autumn

Bobby A. Troutt is a southern writer who writes a variety of short stories, spiritual books and children's books.
