 
## Reading the Fine Print

## A Collection of Short Stories and Poems

## By

## A. M. Reed

## M. L. Reed

## C. L. Reed

## L. M. Reed

## Smashwords Edition

## Copyright

## A. M. Reed

## M. L. Reed

## C. L. Reed

## L. M. Reed

## 2012

Thank you for downloading this free e-book. You are welcome to share it with your friends. This book may be reproduced, copied and distributed for non-commercial purposes, provided the book remains in its complete original form.

Thank you for your support.

### Titles

Chain of Wisdom (A Teenage Story) By L. M. Reed

Love (A Special Kind of Love Poem) By A. M. Reed

Spinning (A Short Story) By C. L. Reed

Lady and Buckshot: The Wright Ruff (A children's story) By M. R. Reed & L. M. Reed

Fit or Fitty? (A Rhyme of Old-ish Proportions) By L. M. Reed

Potted Plants and Wedding Bells (An Unusual Love Story) By L. M. Reed

Who the Heck Decided? (Tongue-in-cheek Poem) By A. M. Reed

Time and Space (A Paranormal Short Story) By C. L. Reed

Death of a Dream (A Creepy Conversation) By L. M. Reed

The Decision (A Paranormal Short Story) By A. M. Reed

The History Lesson (A Political Short Story) By L. M. Reed

Wake up Little Lucy (A Teenage Story) By L. M. Reed

### Chain of Wisdom

### By L. M. Reed

"I can't believe I blew that test," Jesse wailed as we exited the classroom.

"Well, if you hadn't left _it_ at home..." I suggested mischievously.

"Yeah, right," he replied, "if I'd had my all-powerful 'Chain of Wisdom' with me I would have aced that sucker."

"I had mine and I did just fine," I pointed out.

"And it had nothing to do with the fact that you're smart and I'm not," Jesse said shortly.

"Don't underestimate the power of the 'Chain of Wisdom'," I intoned, shaking my head at him in mock warning.

"I refuse to carry around some girly knitted thingy on the off-chance that it's good luck," he whispered furiously in my ear as we arrived at our lockers.

It's crocheted," I reprimanded him, "besides the fact that I made it with black yarn _and_ I put stones on yours instead of beads so I resent your implication that it's a girly thingy."

"I didn't _imply_ anything," he corrected me. "I stated it uncategorically."

"The word is _categorically_ ," I wrinkled my nose at him. "No wonder you didn't do well on our English test. You really _do_ need the 'Chain of Wisdom."

Jesse stuck his tongue out at me as he slammed his locker shut and headed off for football practice. I smiled after him.

_He's such a child sometimes_ , I admitted ruefully, but I knew I wouldn't have changed him in any way, even if it were possible. He was perfect.

We had been best friends ever since kindergarten when some huge first grade boy had pushed me off the swings and Jesse had gallantly come to my rescue. Helping me off the ground, he calmly dusted me off then proceeded to push the first grader off the swing and then held it still while I climbed back into it.

Jesse had always been large for his age so the first grade bully had taken one look at him and run for the hills. Actually he had run for a teacher whose name was Mrs. Hill and, even though I had stood up for Jesse, she had kept both of them in at recess for the next few days. Once he had regained his freedom, Jesse and I had become practically inseparable.

The funny thing was that you couldn't have found two more different people.

Jesse was the All-American boy: a clean cut good-looking hunk with blonde hair and blue eyes. By the time we hit junior high, he was already almost six foot tall and Mr. Athlete. Every coach at the school fought over him, wanting exclusive rights to his talent. He had different ideas. Because he enjoyed every sport, he refused to pick just one and because the coaches wanted him desperately, they agreed to share him.

Even when we started high school, Jesse still refused to make a decision. He did, however, agree to cut out baseball, tennis, and soccer, only playing those sports in the summer leagues, and begin concentrating on football, track, and basketball. There wasn't much overlap in the three he chose to stick with and, as in junior high, the coaches were more than willing to give him plenty of lee-way as long as he continued playing for them.

I attended every one of his events, he liked to call me his own private cheering section, unless it was during school hours and I couldn't get away. High school was much easier since he was down to three school-sponsored sports. I was relieved. His stuff had taken up so much of my time over the past ten years that I'd learn how to combine my favorite pastimes with my perfect attendance at his athletic contests.

Over the years, I would have thought he would get tired of asking me before every one of his events if I was coming, but apparently it never got old for him. I didn't understand why it was so important to him that I be there, but I knew it was, so I went.

I, on the other hand, was a nerd of epic proportions.

My loves were reading, writing, scrap-booking, and crocheting and Jesse had helped me out by giving me a camera for my birthday our seventh grade year saying jokingly that it was to take pictures of him for a special scrapbook he expected to get from me our senior year. I took him very seriously, and meticulously took pictures during every one of his events and just as meticulously put artistic pages together in his scrapbook. I had to admit, he always looked good in the pictures.

Ironically, my memory was photographic and Jesse's face was photogenic, and we would have willingly swapped places if it had been at all possible.

I had zero athletic ability, walking a semi-straight line was a challenge for me, and my understanding of sports was directly inline with my ability, or lack thereof, but that wasn't the part of him I would have swapped for. I wanted his good looks and popularity...well, the female equivalent of his good looks.

With my photographic memory, I knew all of the fundamentals and rules but sports were still all confusing to me. That didn't bother me a bit. Why should anyone care that much about putting a silly ball though a ring ten foot above the floor or kicking a weirdly shaped ball into the middle of a U-shaped pole or running home or having a touching down—I thought touch downs were for astronauts and pilots anyway—or any of the numerous strange rituals athletes go through? The objectives were what mystified me the most. They just seemed so...useless. What was so exciting about any of it? I had given up trying to figure it out a long time ago.

It wasn't that I was against games—I loved a good game of chess or checkers, pitting my wits against someone else's and coming out on top—I just couldn't figure out how anyone could get so excited about things that were totally irrelevant in life. Especially things that would mean nothing to anyone in ten years like throwing or catching or kicking.

My parents had been pressured by the counselor at school to send me to a special school once my 'brilliance' was discovered, but not only could they not afford it, I didn't want to go. Even after they were assured of at least a partial scholarship for me, none of us wanted me to have to move hours and hours away to live a solitary, lonely life in a dormitory.

We were a close family and besides I would have missed Jesse terribly. I never told him, figuring that was something he didn't need to know, and I wasn't sure how he would have reacted. If he had pushed me to go, I know I would have been crushed, thinking he was trying to get rid of me.

Of course, when we entered junior high Jesse was instantly popular, one of the coolest guys in school. Girls were always making what he disgustedly called goo-goo eyes at him and hinting around for him to call them. One girl even wrote her phone number on the sleeve of his shirt before he realized what she was doing.

I laughed to myself as I remembered how angry he had been. She had defaced his favorite shirt. I recalled reading something about how hairspray, vinegar, and/or alcohol could remove ink stains and finally managed to get the stain out for him. My mother hadn't been happy about my using all of her hairspray, but she got over it. Jesse had been pathetically thankful, offering me a lifetime of servitude in exchange.

I told him I'd think about it.

I, on the other hand, was practically invisible. My parents had discovered I was almost blind the summer before I began seventh grade so I had acquired thick glasses, and even though Jesse said I had pretty green eyes, no one could see them through the magnifying lenses I was forced to wear. My non-descript brown hair was singularly unspectacular, I always wore it in a ponytail to keep it out of my face, and I never felt at home in anything other than jeans, tennis shoes, and a t-shirt. Add all of that to the fact that I was extremely intelligent and my fate as the classic geek...dork...nerd—pretty much any and every word available meaning the total opposite of cool—was sealed

By the time we started high school, I decided to try to hide the fact that I was smarter than almost anyone else at school, even some of the teachers, and attempt to fit in. I refused to take any advanced classes, so Jesse and I were able to schedule all of our basics together, and made sure my grades were good but not too good. Although he was glad about that, Jesse said I was nuts and that if he had my brains he would be shouting it to the world saying I should be proud to be so special. I just wanted to be considered normal. In the teenage world, special is only good if it means beautiful, athletic, or rich.

I was none of those things. Jesse was all three. Well, handsome—he would object to being called beautiful saying it was another girly thing—but same difference.

The fact that we had made it to our freshman year in high school and were still best friends was amazing to me. Senior girls, _gorgeous_ senior girls, were asking Jesse out on a regular basis and he was _turning them down_. I constantly told him he was nuts, but he would just shrug, say he wasn't interested, and change the subject.

Odd how people seemed to admire and desire what they can't have; I yearned for physical beauty and popularity while Jesse seemed to want my brains, which I would have gladly given to him no strings attached if I could have. It wasn't that I wanted to be _stupid_ ; I just didn't want to be a stinking genius. I would rather be a raving beauty. Although my new glasses were a definite improvement over my last pair, they still didn't prevent me from being the nerdiest kid in school...and that was saying a lot.

~**~

"So, you comin' to my game tonight?" Jesse ventured casually, the same question in the same tone as all the other times he had asked.

"Wouldn't miss it," I responded, the same answer with the same smile I had used for the past three years.

"Great."

"Great."

We both laughed uproariously at ourselves as we always did.

"Hmm..."I pondered, "we may be in a rut."

"Ya think?" he asked with faked thoughtfulness.

"Nah," we said simultaneously and went back to eating, or in my case _trying_ to eat what passed for lunch.

Jesse devoured food like it there was no tomorrow, but my taste buds were more delicate and I usually picked at the cafeteria food, any food really, which would account for my general boniness and lack of any hint of a feminine curve.

"You gonna finish that?" he asked eyeing my food hopefully.

Glancing at my plate in distaste, I pushed the whole tray towards him.

"Knock your self out," I sniffed.

Watching Jesse devour the starchy contents, I shivered.

_Ignorance was definitely bliss_ , I decided silently not for the first time cursing my brain that made it hard if not impossible for me to forget anything.

I could easily picture what those carbohydrates were doing to the inside of Jesse's body. Even the pineapple he was merrily chomping down on was questionable. Just a few days before I had read an article online about how much mold was allowed by the FDA in canned pineapple and it had freaked me out. Digging a little deeper I discovered that all sorts of things were allowed in different foods, even peanut butter, my mainstay in life. I was going to have to try to avoid thinking about what was hiding in food or I would never eat again.

"Hi Jesse," a female voice said from somewhere behind me. I rolled my eyes at him and stifled a laugh.

"Hey, Mitzi," Jesse replied amiably. "What can I do for you?"

"Could we talk?"

Since she was behind me, I couldn't see her face but I could picture it perfectly from the pointed tone in her voice. She was obviously hoping to lose the eavesdropper...me.

"Sure," Jesse leaned back in his chair, making him self more comfortable, deliberately misunderstanding her. "Shoot."

"I meant... _alone_ ," she emphasized the last word meaningfully.

"Oh," he replied faking confusion, "You mean Janey? Don't worry she won't remember anything we say. Like a leaky faucet," he used his index finger to tap his head a couple of times.

I kicked him under the table, coughing to cover up the noise as well as my amusement. Mitzi came around to sit beside him.

"Okay, well..." she began hesitantly "I'm having some trouble in history and..."

"You're a junior," he reminded her. "I can't help you with that since I'm only a freshman."

"No, I know that," she said dismissively, "but I heard through the grapevine that you have something special that helps you make better grades and I was wondering if..."

"What do you mean I have something special?" Jesse's eyes narrowed and he practically glared at poor Mitzi. "I don't cheat."

"I didn't mean _that_ ," Mitzi was quick to reassure him. "I mean your..." she lowered her voice and whispered "Chain of Wisdom."

"My..." Jesse looked bewildered for a moment then I saw his face clear. "Oh...my Chain of Wisdom," he nodded, the wheels in his head obviously turning. "That's supposed to be a secret. How did you find out about it?"

"Well, I heard if from Stan who heard it from Chucky who heard if from Liz who heard it from Melissa whose sister Julie is in your English class," she finished almost breathlessly. "She overheard you talking about it yesterday after the test."

"I see," Jesse nodded. "I have to tell you I'm not the one to ask. I have one, but I don't know much about them, not sure I even believe in them. Janey here is the expert. She brought back the ritualistic secrets of the Chain of Wisdom from her trip to China last year."

That was news to me.

True, my dad had been sent to China by his company the year before, and Mom and I had been allowed stay with him at the hotel as long as we paid for our own tickets to get there, but as much as it had been a trip worth remembering, I didn't remember anything about bringing home secret ancient Chinese rituals. I'd totally made up the Chain of Wisdom thing.

"You mean... _her_?" Mitzi asked incredulously pointing at me.

I could well believe her incredulity. Jesse had just gotten through convincing her that my brain was a leaky faucet so selling me as the guru of wisdom was going to be rather difficult. I wondered idly what he was up to.

"Yes... _her_..." I could hear some irritation creeping into Jesse's voice. "Since she has been using the Chain of Wisdom her grades have been steadily getting better. Just a few years ago she was practically failing everything."

"Really," Mitzi's interest was piqued "that's exactly what I need. If I flunk out of history, I'll be kicked off the cheerleading squad. Becky would love that," she muttered. "I can't let that happen. You _have_ to help me," she turned to me in a pleading tone.

"I know you don't like to give out your secrets, Janey," Jesse began conspiratorially, noticing the look on my face that screamed liar at him "but I think you may want to reconsider. Mitzi really needs help."

"You know good and well..." I tried to interject only to be interrupted by Jesse.

"I know...I know...the secret cannot be sold, but it _can_ be traded," he suggested winking at me. "What would you have to bargain with, Mitzi?"

"Well," she eyed me thoughtfully "I'm great with makeup and hair, I could give you a makeover," she finished excitedly.

"I'm not..." I began, but once again Jesse interrupted.

"That sounds like a _great_ idea," Jesse enthused. "She'll do it."

My eyes widened in horror as I took in Jesse's eagerness. Was I so hard on the eyes that he felt like he had to find me a makeover in order to stay friends? I could feel the sadness settling inside of me. I always knew the time would come that Jesse would start being ashamed to be seen with me in public, but I hadn't realized how devastated that would make me feel.

_If that's what he wants_ , I told myself fiercely, _that's what he'll get_.

Throwing myself into the spirit of the thing I turned to Mitzi "There are a few things I will need to know about you," I began, thinking fast and furiously, making things up as I proceeded in order to outline what she would have to do.

I pulled out a sheet of paper from my notebook and started a list. "I will need you to answer all of these questions as honestly as you can. The Chain of Wisdom has to be customized for each individual or it will not work correctly," I finished gravely. "I will also need a few drops of your favorite perfume, scents are soothing and help one to concentrate, as well as some small personal items like beads that can be strung onto the Chain of Wisdom to make it your own."

Noticing Jesse's puzzled frown I shrugged, I had read something about scents once and thought it made a nice addition. The beads, well, I didn't want to be buying beads for someone else, I was too cheap. I would explain it to Jesse later.

"Okay, I will get all of this to you tomorrow," Mitzi said looking over the short list of questions.

"Tomorrow is Saturday," I objected "can't it wait until Monday."

"No, I have a test on Monday," she replied adamantly. "I need it this weekend."

"Oh, alright," I agreed ungraciously. "What about after the football game tonight?"

"Great," she nodded enthusiastically. "Where do we meet?"

"I'll be in the stands after everyone else clears out," I sighed heavily.

"You don't mind if I wait to do your makeover until I see if it works do you?" she asked a bit skeptically.

"Doesn't matter," I replied heavily.

If Jesse was hoping for miracles, he was doomed to disappointment. What did it matter if it was sooner or later?

"See you after the game then," she took off just as the bell rang for the end of lunch.

"Gee thanks," I said sarcastically as I stood and picked up my tray.

"Anytime," Jesse grinned in return.

~**~

"I did it," Mitzi exulted, "and I owe it all to you, Janey. I will give you your makeover whenever you say. How about tonight?"

"So I take it you passed the test," Jesse asked ironically.

"I got a B," she could hardly contain her excitement. "I never get anything higher than a C and sometimes I flunk out. My parents were so thrilled they've promised me a shopping spree."

"I'm glad for you," I said smiling ironically. A shopping spree sounded more like torture than a reward to me but to each his or her own I supposed. "You must have followed all of the rules to the letter."

"I did exactly what you said," she assured me. "I put the Chain of Wisdom under each line as I read it and I remembered almost everything. It was amazing."

"Amazing," I echoed.

Although it was hard to keep a straight face, Jesse and I managed it, albeit not well.

"I can be free tonight or tomorrow," Mitzi offered "You can decide."

"Not tonight," I stalled "I'm busy. Tomorrow will be soon enough."

"Okay," she agreed gaily. "You have my number if you change your mind. Otherwise, I'll see you tomorrow."

"What was _that_ all about?" Jesse asked perplexed as he closed his locker. "You aren't busy tonight."

"I have...stuff," I said a tad defensively slamming my own locker door shut.

"If you say so," he conceded shrugging.

I watched him head to football practice with mixed emotions. He was right; I didn't have anything planned, just my usual Monday evening of reading and writing. I had already done my scrapbook page from Friday's football game and ever since I'd crocheted Mitzi's Chain of Wisdom on Saturday, I couldn't bring myself to even pick up my crochet needle.

My primary emotion seemed to be anger, but it was mixed with a bit of sadness. Why couldn't Jesse just come on out and say he wanted me to look differently? Why did he have to hide behind a...scheme...in order for me to be the girl he wanted me to be?

My anger didn't subside all the way home. I ignored everyone on the bus, but that was normal as well as mutual, and as I let myself into the house I felt thankful for the silence and emptiness. Both of my parents worked and never got home from work until around six so I always had the house to myself for over an hour.

Usually, I would pick up a snack from the kitchen, an apple and a glass of milk, but I was so upset I knew I wouldn't be able to swallow anything. Running upstairs, I threw my books down on the bed and then myself right down beside them. Lying there, staring at the ceiling, I tried to analyze why I was so upset with Jesse.

Actually, I knew why, I was just desperately trying to avoid admitting it to myself. I had a huge crush on Jesse and had since fifth grade. I cursed the day I'd experienced jealousy for the first time. Jesse and I were pretty oblivious of the opposite sex at that point, which was an odd thing really when you consider that we were different genders, but our relationship was basically neuter up until that time.

Jesse hadn't changed, I had.

I would never forget that day; the day a sixth grade girl had cornered Jesse and invited him to a party at her house. Jesse had of course asked if I could come, too and been immediately told 'no'. When he told me the story later, in a very confused voice, not understanding why I wasn't invited, I realized for the first time that Jesse was a boy and that there were girls who wanted to take him away from me.

My jealousy wasn't so much boyfriend/girlfriend at that point, but within a year I began feeling differently about Jesse. I never told him, never even really admitted it to myself, but I couldn't hide from my emotions any longer. The fact that Jesse thought of me as a sister had never really bothered me before, but suddenly it bothered me a lot. If Jesse wanted a new me, perhaps I should give it a try.

~**~

"Janey?" the wonder in Jesse's voice was so obvious as to be painful.

"Hey," was all I could get out.

"I guess the makeover was a success," he said superfluously.

"Yeah, I guess so," I echoed hollowly.

We were suddenly stilted with each other, neither knowing what to say. I could feel my heart breaking into a thousand tiny pieces at the thought of what we had lost in just the last couple of minutes. I wondered hopelessly if our relationship would ever recover.

"Hey Jesse," a masculine voice captured our attention "Who's the new girl?"

"Oh, hey Jerry," Jesse said dully. "This is Janey."

"Hi Janey," Jerry and a couple of other football players moved to within inches of me. "Are you new here?"

"Yeah," Jesse acknowledged "Janey is new here," he mumbled turning to leave.

I had the urge to throw myself after him, but controlled myself. After all, the whole thing had been _his_ idea in the first place.

What was his problem?

Angrier than I had ever been in my life, I turned back to the other guys, trying to imitate the flirty behavior I had seen in other girls. I was surprisingly successful. I had two date invitations for the next Saturday before the first bell: one from Jerry and another from a guy named Steven. I really had no desire to date either one of them so I made up an excuse about some family thing I had that weekend and hastily made my way to class.

Jesse pretty much ignored me the rest of the day. He showed up for our mutual classes right before the tardy bell and didn't show up at all at lunch. By the end of the day, my normal calm was history and my anger knew no bounds.

Ironically, my popularity with everyone else grew larger by the minute. Mitzi had spread the word about my Chain of Wisdom and all of the cheerleaders wanted one. I spent the entire lunch period bagging and tagging all of their offerings, Mitzi having shared with them what I would need in order to make their customized Chain. Each of them had some type of service to trade, everything from pedicures to manicures to different hairstyles.

I refused any trades unless the Chain of Wisdom actually worked for them, and they all readily agreed.

The next day ran along the same lines as the first. Jesse ignored me while the rest of the school couldn't get enough of me. I was so ticked off at Jessie I decided to accept a date with Jerry. When Friday rolled around, the pain inside of me intensified with every tick of the clock as I waited all day for Jesse to find me and ask me his usual question.

I waited in vain.

Every day I became more popular, and every day Jesse and I grew further and further apart. We had no more communication, never even looked at each other. I tried to bury my pain, as months passed and we moved into basketball season.

Christmas passed without any acknowledgment from Jesse. We had always spent Christmas Eve day together, just hanging around, talking, not doing much, but...nothing. I finally had to admit that we were done...our friendship was over.

_How did this happen?_ I asked myself hopelessly. _Is it all worth it? Is being beautiful and popular worth losing my best friend in the whole world?_

Months stretched into years. We graduated from high school, went our separate ways to college. I never married, unable to forget Jesse, unwilling to let any other guy get close enough to me to establish any type of lasting relationship, scared of the pain that might follow.

At twenty-eight, I debated about going to our ten-year high school reunion. Would Jesse be there? Had he married? Did he have kids? All of the questions going around in my head were giving me a headache. I didn't want to know, didn't want to care, didn't want...

~**~

Wiping the tears from my eyes, I got up off the bed and moved over to my desk. Picking up the phone, I dialed.

"Mitzi," I said carefully emptying my voice of any emotion, "I've changed my mind, I don't want a makeover."

The End

### Love

### By A. M. Reed

I will carry you with me wherever I go...

I will murmur softly to you before I sleep...

I will love you, though I have not met you...

When you finally arrive, I will be in pain...

But that will not make me forget the love we will already share...

Once you are here, I will hold you in my arms...

I will sing you to sleep when you cry...

I will rock you gently while you dream...

When you grow, I will take you to the zoo and hold your hand...

I will punish you when you pull an entire drawer onto the ground...

And later give you an ice cream cone and a kiss...

I will sneak into your room just to watch you mumble in your sleep...

I will gladly get out of bed to rid the monsters from your closet when you wake me...

I will wave you off to your first day at school with tears in my eyes...

I will congratulate you when you get a good grade...

I will comfort you when someone bullies you...

When you become a teenager, I will suffer through your moods...

We will have many arguments, but nothing will make me forget the love I have for you...

I will tell you that you deserve better when you come home with a broken heart...

And I will cry with you as we watch a sad movie...

I will attempt not to panic as you learn to drive...

I will pay for the damages you cause...

Once you are grown, I will cry as you walk down the aisle...

I will give you my blessing as you start your new life with your love...

And one day, not too long after, you will know the love I feel for you...

And it will repeat...

Into eternity...

### Spinning

### By C. L. Reed

As I spun around my chair, I began to wonder the purpose of this school assembly. We had had many assemblies before, but it was the principle himself who had done the arrangements for today. And why on earth schedule a high ranking church official for our school. We were not a church sponsored school, just a small public school in the middle of nowhere.

Today they had brought in a grand platform for the speaker. The platform had been built in the middle our gymnasium several layers high, with a staircase leading to the very top. The speaker would be at least 20 feet above the floor. Whoever this guy was, he must be very important. I had never seen such preparations made for any other guest to our school. However, I gave very little attention to the gallantry of it all. I was just enjoying the spinning chair. They had brought in extra chairs for the event. This one must have come from one of the offices and I was not about to give it up.

As the speaker made his grand entrance, he was led in by many other officials. I assumed they must have been official since they all wore a variety of white and crimson red robes. Each made their way to the platform taking their place on each level of the platform. They must have done this all before, because they all knew exactly their place. I can only assume that the higher their place on the platform, the greater their importance. Important to whom, I did not know.

The speaker climbed the steps to the very top. He was wearing a white robe covered by a white cape. Assistants helped him remove the cape and it hung it behind him. As they gently hung the cape, they began to spread it out as if it were a large curtain hanging on a rod. The cape spanned at least ten feet to each side of the speaker. The spreading cape revealed golden inlays. As each crease unfolded, more and more gold began to gleam from the bright spotlight that had begun to focus on the speaker.

As the program proceeded, I grew more and more dizzy. The spinning chair had begun to take its toll on my head. At that point, I could not tell you what the speaker even said. To this day, I don't believe that he was even speaking English. It was all a big blur and all these grand arrangements seemed to be wasted. But again, I was very glad to have my chair. It was very comfortable. I could lean way back and, with the tips of my toes, I could give a slight push and it would revolve several times. I began my own little contest – How many revolutions could I make with just one push. As I counted, one, two, three, three and a half, three and three quarters, three and seven eighths --- it was then that I could see that the speaker was looking right at me. Uh oh – big mistake.

At the end of the assembly, everyone began marching out. Basically reverse order that they had entered. As the speaker was led out through the crowd, many people were trying to get his attention. They were waving their hands in an attempt to get him to glimpse in their direction. That was the least of my desires. I just wanted to remain anonymous, but somehow I just knew that he was looking my way.

As the grand procession came closer to me, the more I retreated. By this time, I had left my spinning chair. I just wanted to get lost in the crowd, but as I moved so did the procession. The bodyguards kept pushing through the crowds and at this point, I could tell they were following me. I had to decide what to do. Should I make a break for it and run, or stop and accept the punishment. Surely, the punishment could not be too bad. All I had done was spin a few times in a chair. So, as I stood there the speaker made his way towards me. As he grew closer, it was almost as if he had grown smaller, at least shorter. He could not have been taller than 5 foot. As he stood in front of me, I looked into his face. His skin was milky white, very soft looking, and in some way very kind. As I looked into his eyes, I could tell that he was not seeking me out for punishment, but he had something else in mind. He gently reached out his hand and put it behind my back. He then pulled me close. I could feel a very odd tingling. The tingling began in my back then down my legs to my toes, then through my arms, hands, and fingers. Did this short little man have some powers of healing? Was it a healing that I did not know that I even needed?

\---- As the doctor looked up from his clipboard and over his glasses, I asked him what he thought this dream might mean. He stared straight at me and said, "It doesn't matter what I think it means, but what does it mean to you?"

The End

### Lady and Buckshot

### The Wright Ruff

### By L. M. Reed

### &

### M. L. Reed

Hi! My name is Lady. I'm a German Shepherd. I live in a log house in the mountains with my owner, Jake Wright. He started training me about 5 years ago when I was just a pup. I call him The Boss.

The Boss decided I needed a companion. He found a yellow Labrador retriever puppy that we could train.

That puppy changed our lives.

At first, The Boss just called him Dog. After a while, The Boss decided to name him Buckshot.

The Boss and I figured we could train him, but boy were we wrong. Instead, Buckshot began training _us_. And so my story begins...

As soon as I heard The Boss call me to come, I knew Buckshot was in trouble again.

I sat in front of The Boss, waiting for the next command.

I heard him muttering something about "That dog" under his breath and knew that Buckshot had escaped. Buckshot did that a lot.

After leading me to the spot where Buckshot had squeezed under the fence, The Boss gave me the command to track him. I took off running.

I found Buckshot a few miles from the house, playing with a lizard. The poor lizard didn't know that Buckshot wouldn't hurt him and kept squeaking "Help me!" over and over again.

"Buckshot," I barked sternly "Leave that poor lizard alone."

"Oh hey, Lady," Buckshot greeted me as enthusiastically as he always did everything. "Do you hear him? He's in trouble. He needs my help. I'm like super dog coming to the rescue."

"The only thing he needs rescuing from is _you_ ," I placed myself between Buckshot and the unfortunate creature he was trying to 'help'. "Run along lizard, as fast as you can."

"He'll chase me," the lizard whined.

"I've got him now," I sighed in resignation. "Go quickly."

The lizard scampered away.

That was the beginning of one misadventure after another. Every night I would follow Buckshot out through his secret hole in the laundry room and drag him back home before The Boss noticed.

Buckshot was out to rescue the world one creature at a time whether the creatures actually needed his help or not. Needless to say, my time was mostly spent saving the poor things from _him_.

Then, one night, as I led Buckshot home, we heard a terrible howling. Buckshot didn't stop to think about the possible danger as he took off loping towards the sound. I quickly followed.

"Look Lady," Buckshot said in excitement, once I reached him "there's a puppy in trouble. What _is_ that thing?"

"It's a type of animal trap. Probably set by some poacher."

"What's a poacher?"

"A poacher is someone who takes wild animals without permission."

"That's not nice."

"No, it's not. It's against the law, too."

"Wow! Then it's a _real_ rescue this time. We have to get that puppy out of there."

"Yes we do. Hmm...but how?"

"It's okay, little puppy," Buckshot walked over to the cage and began talking to the scared prisoner "We'll get you out of there. What's your name?"

"Demon..."

Buckshot laughed and said, "You don't look much like a demon."

"I'm a Rottweiler," the puppy whispered. "My owner says I'll be big one day."

"Where's your owner?"

"I don't know. I was in my backyard and this cat came. He made fun of me and I got mad and chased it under the fence. Then I got lost and I was hungry. I smelled food and then this thing trapped me here."

"You know, Buckshot," I said coming up with an idea "you're pretty good at digging out of places. Do you think you could dig _into_ this one?"

"You bet!"

Buckshot slowly walked around the cage, testing the ground carefully with his front paws. Suddenly, he began to dig.

I had to admit, he'd chosen the best spot, where the ground was the softest. It was no wonder he was such a great escape artist.

It wasn't long before Buckshot had a huge hole under one side of the cage and the puppy was free.

"Now we just have to get you home," I said. "I think I can sniff out the way. Follow me, please."

After returning the puppy to the backyard and warning him not to stray again, Buckshot and I hurried home. It was getting light outside. The Boss would be awake soon.

The whole way home, Buckshot was very excited.

"I am _Super_ Dog."

"I'm sorry, but I think that name is already taken."

"Wonder Dog...?"

"Nope."

"Rescue Dog...?"

"There are whole packs of rescue dogs."

"I know...how about 'I'll-Save-You Dog'?"

"I have one for you. How about 'I-always-call-a-grown-up-when-I'm-in-trouble Dog'?"

"Aw, come on...admit it...I did good."

"You mean you did _well_ ," I corrected.

"I'm glad you agree."

"I was simply correcting your poor English skills."

"You liked helping that puppy though, didn't you?"

"I am happy the puppy is safe."

"So next time..."

"There will be no next time. If The Boss ever finds out about your nighttime escapes he will not be happy with you."

"But there are tons of animals out there that need my help."

I knew Buckshot would continue his nightly escapes, more determined than ever to play the hero. I also knew there was nothing I could do to stop that.

All I _could_ do was be there for him. After all, he was _my_ responsibility.

"I know," Buckshot said in excitement "you can call me Mega Digger!"

"Why don't I just call you Buckshot?" I sighed wearily as we trudged home...well, _I_ trudged while Buckshot frolicked.

Buckshot didn't bother to answer, shooting ahead of me eagerly searching for another poor creature to endanger...I mean, to _save_ from danger.

With a shake of my head, I smiled. Life would certainly never be dull.

The End

### Fit or Fitty?

### A Poem of Old-ish Proportions

### By L. M. Reed

A simple little ditty

'Bout when I turned fitty

And my body fell apart

It was rotten from the start

The snow atop my head

Wasn't temporary, instead

I was steadily going gray

And I couldn't keep it at bay

While my hair began to thin

Oh, except around my chin

Which I no more recognize

As it's doubled up in size

And those folds of extra skin

I don't know where they've been

But they suddenly appeared

As my jaw line disappeared

Adding insult onto injury

I'm sagging everywhere I see

And, kinda like my tush,

My brain has turned to mush

I'm forgetting everything

Where _did_ I put that key ring?

But the one thing I _can't_ lose

And it's giving me the blues

It's what's living on my hips

From the kisses on my lips

Cuz they're the chocolate kind

Not the Be My Valentine

Those horrid sweets I've found

As I gain pound after pound

Taste too good to resist

So they're always on my list

The sugar and caffeine

They kinda treat me mean

Make it hard to sleep at night

Or awake when e'er it's light

And there's never enough stalls

To get me through the malls

Whenever I'm out shopping

Boy, that really keeps me hopping

Now you young'uns listen well

To the story that I tell

Cuz the stuff that I been feelin'

Well, it really sends me reelin'

And you think you can escape it

But there's no way you can fake it

When reality sinks in

And you realize that you've been

Simply living in denial

And thinking all the while

You would be young forever

So in your mind you never sever

The connection to your youth

I thought the same...forsooth

But now, I must admit it

Though, I still don't seem to fit it

I guess I have to say

I'm turning fifty today

### Potted Plants and Wedding Bells

### By L. M. Reed

"Hey, find your own potted plant, this one's taken," I partially turned to glare at the man who had ducked behind me.

"Who are we hiding from?" the man whispered conspiratorially.

" _We_ aren't hiding," I replied irritably. "Now if you don't mind..."

Presenting my back to him once more, I peered out through the branches, but the group had already disappeared.

"Rats!" I exclaimed in frustration.

"You shouldn't do that, you know."

"Do what?" I asked crossly facing him with my hands planted firmly on my hips.

"Abuse those poor animals in that manner."

"Poor animals...?" I repeated impatiently. "What are you talking about?"

"Rats," he replied easily. "My niece and nephew have a few as pets, and they are actually quite personable. Perhaps you should find some other term to express your...er...aggravation."

"Quite personable, huh? Too bad _you_ haven't learned from them," I said nastily. "Now if you'll excuse me..."

I tried to move out from behind the huge plant, but a hand on my arm stopped me.

"Why are you stalking my cousin's wedding party?"

"Your _cousin_...? _Jerald_ is your _cousin_...?"

"Not Jerald," he contradicted. "Heidi, the bride..."

"Oh."

For a moment, I was speechless.

I'd been furiously planning how to get to Heidi Whitehall for the past twenty-four hours, ever since I'd learned that Jerald was getting married, but without success. Heidi's parents were well-known as well as wealthy, and the security surrounding them had proven impenetrable.

Then, out of nowhere, one of her relatives practically falls into my lap and suddenly I get cold feet.

"You know Jerald...?" the man prompted expectantly, his tone at least twenty degrees chillier than before.

"I...I..."

My firm resolve was fast turning into jelly as I met the man's frosty blue eyes, the scorn in them obvious even to my quickly melting brain.

Taking my elbow, the man led me out from behind the potted plant towards the lobby.

"What...what are you doing?" I asked in panic as we stopped in front of the elevators.

"We are going somewhere we can talk in private," the man replied as he hit the button for the penthouse.

"But...but..." I stammered as he hauled me into the elevator. "No...I can't. Please... _stop!_ "

The elevator was empty and as the door shut us in together, my panic turned into full flight hysteria.

" _Let me out! Please don't do this! Stop..."_

I knew I was babbling as I struggled to free myself from the man's grasp, but I couldn't help it. The whole scene had turned nightmarishly familiar as it sent me back in time to another hotel and another elevator and another hotel room...and I knew how it would all end.

"Jerald _, please..."_ I begged, _"Please...I don't want to do this!"_

Strong hands grasped my upper arms and I began to kick and claw and bite...all of the things I should have done before, the other time, but was too young and scared and intimidated to do so.

" _Ow!"_ a male voice exclaimed as my teeth made contact with his hand.

A second later, I felt a hard stinging slap across the face and as my hand came up to cradle my check, I felt my lower lip tremble.

I will not cry...I will not cry...

"I'm sorry I had to do that," a kind voice said from above my head. "Let me look at it."

"It's _fine_ ," I protested truculently as a gentle hand removed mine and examined my face.

"What's your name?"

I couldn't answer right away. The tenderness and understanding in the voice, two things that had been in short supply over the past five years, brought a lump into my throat that I couldn't seem to dispel.

"I won't hurt you," he insisted. "Well, if you can discount the fact that I slapped you," he continued with mild humor in his voice before the seriousness returned. "I'm sorry I had to do that. Please tell me your name."

"Shannon," I whispered.

"Shannon," the man placed a finger under my chin and tilted my head up so he could look into my eyes. "I'm Garrick."

The elevator dinged and the doors opened.

"I think we need to talk, Shannon," Garrick said softly, "and the family penthouse is the only place I know where we can speak in private."

I tried to stifle the whimper, but only partially succeeded.

"I won't hurt you, Shannon, or let anyone else...I promise."

I nodded tentatively and reluctantly allowed him to lead me off the elevator and into the living area.

For some reason, even though he'd slapped me, I believed him. After all, I had been hysterical and had actually _bit_ the man. All in all, I thought he'd shown considerable restraint.

"I would offer you some type of refreshment, but I fear we are rather short on time," Garrick said apologetically. "Am I correct in assuming that you know something about Jerald that you feel my cousin should be made aware of before she commits to him for life?"

For a moment, I hesitated. What I was about to do would change more than one life and in drastic ways. Was it really any of my business? What if I spilled my guts and it turned out that Heidi already knew, or worse, didn't care? Why put myself through that? Why relive what was indisputably the worst night of my life?

"Shannon," Garrick firmly pushed me down onto the sofa and sat next to me, taking one of my small cold hands into his large warm one while the other hand once more tilted my head back forcing me to meet his gaze, "I know this is difficult, but I need to know what _you_ know. In less than one hour, my cousin, whom I love dearly, will commit herself for life to a man that she apparently doesn't know as well as she thinks she does. Tell me what you know and together we'll deal with this."

"I tried to find Heidi alone," I whispered, "but I couldn't and I can't risk...I can't..."

I trailed off miserably. As much as I wanted to feel brave, I knew I wasn't. The only thing that had gotten me on that plane and forced me into flying halfway across the country was empathy...empathy for a woman who had no idea the type of man she was marrying...the mistake she was about to make.

But facing Jerald again...

"You don't want to see him again," Garrick said in sudden comprehension. "That's why you were hiding behind the potted plant."

I nodded.

"Tell me," he urged.

"He date raped me," I said in shame, bowing my head, refusing to meet his eyes.

There was no need. I knew what I would see there: the disgust, the ridicule, the anger. I'd face those and many more in the months following the 'Incident.' That was what it had become known as...the 'Incident.'

"How old were you?" he asked quietly.

"Seventeen..."

"Why didn't you have him arrested?"

" _I tried!"_ I replied vehemently, lifting my head, eyes shooting sparks. "His parents were rich, I was a foster child...how do _you_ think it went?"

Tears streamed down my face as I glared at him defiantly, not really seeing _him_ , but rather every single person in town that had pointed an accusing finger at the scarlet woman that had seduced the town's golden boy and then had the audacity to cry 'rape.'

Lowering my eyes once more, I mumbled, "No one believed me."

" _I_ believe you," Garrick said firmly as he pulled out a cell.

"Tawny...?" he spoke into the phone. "Put Heidi on...no it _can't_ wait. I need to talk to her _now_."

"Garrick..." I began, "what if...?"

Holding up a hand, he silenced me as he continued.

"Heidi...I know you only have forty minutes, sweetheart, but I have to talk to you...No, this _can't_ wait...you know I wouldn't bother you on your wedding day if it weren't important...the Penthouse...and don't tell anyone other than Tawny...she can cover for you, that's why you have a maid of honor...good, see you in a few."

Garrick hung up and closed his eyes for a brief moment.

"I'm sorry," I mumbled miserably, burying my face in my hands. "I shouldn't have come."

"Shannon, look at me," he ordered.

Lifting my head, I meet his warm blue eyes, nothing like the icy blue from earlier, and knew that he would protect me from Jerald just as he would protect Heidi from him. He was everything that Jerald wasn't...kind, good, gentle, yet strong...and he believed me. For once in my life, someone other than Maggie believed me.

"You have undoubtedly saved one of my favorite people in the whole world from a miserable marriage with a lowdown, scum-of-the-earth bastard and you have my eternal gratitude. I know it took a lot of courage for you to come, and I think you are very brave."

"I'm not brave...and what if she doesn't believe me?"

"As hard as it will be for her, she'll eventually believe you. The important thing is for her to postpone the wedding until she can make an informed decision about the rest of her life."

"I hope so."

"May I ask you a question?"

I nodded.

"Once you realized you were...that no one believed you...what did you do?"

"I ran away," I admitted reluctantly. "I used the little money I'd saved from babysitting to take a bus as far away from Chicago as I could. Since I was already seventeen, I'm pretty sure people were just glad I was gone."

"And..." he prompted.

"And I ended up in a small town in Nebraska. The woman who ran the diner there, Maggie, hired me and rented me a room. She had a son, but he was killed in Iraq so we became close...like family I guess. Eventually, I got my GED and then trained to become a nurse."

"And the child...?"

"Child...?" I repeated fearfully.

"You were pregnant when you ran away, weren't you?" he prodded gently.

"How did you...?"

"Educated guess," he shrugged. "Where is the baby now?"

"Michael is with Maggie at the hotel," I answered mechanically. "He's almost five now."

My greatest fear was realized. Someone knew about Michael. What if Jerald or his parents found out? Would they try to take him from me?

"You kept him."

"He's _mine_ ," I said fiercely, "and I won't let..."

The knock on the door interrupted the rest of my sentence. Lapsing into silence, I waited on the sofa while Garrick answered the door, my thoughts in a confused jumble.

As Garrick guided Heidi over to me, I stood nervously and smoothed my dark blue suede skirt with shaking hands.

"Heidi, this is Shannon.

Heidi was the epitome of every fashion model bride I'd ever seen in a wedding magazine with her beautiful blonde hair, tiny waist, off the shoulder neckline that showed off her glowing skin, and that million dollar smile. I felt the tears spring to my eyes as I realized I was about to wreck her world...her beautiful and perfect world. For a moment, I lost my nerve.

I wanted nothing more than to find a hole and crawl into it.

Then I looked up into the most understanding blue eyes I'd ever seen on a man and, instead of running away, I held out my hand.

"It's nice to meet you Shannon," Heidi said sincerely taking my hand in both of hers. "I had no idea you were seeing someone, Garrick. I'm so pleased. It's been too long."

"Oh, I'm not..." I began, withdrawing my hand.

"Shannon has something she needs you to know, Heidi," Garrick broke in, "but before she speaks, I want to tell you how important you are to me and how much your friendship has meant to me all these years. After Julia died, I'm not sure I would have survived without you."

"Garrick," Heidi whispered, tears glistening in her eyes as she lifted a hand and placed it on his cheek, "I _so_ want you to be happy."

"As I do you," he smiled tenderly and, leaning forward, placed a kiss on her forehead. "That's why, as much as I hate to do this, I have to ask you to postpone your wedding."

Heidi's smile faltered.

"There are some things about Jerald I'm fairly certain you don't know..."

"But that's true of all marriages, isn't it..." Heidi asked uncertainly.

"It is," Garrick admitted, "but Jerald has at least one thing in his past you have the right to know beforehand."

"And Shannon knows what it is," she deduced as calmly as she could.

"Yes she does...Shannon...?"

"I'm so sorry, Heidi," I rushed to speak. "If there were any other way..."

"It's okay, Shannon," Heidi attempted a smile, "we no longer behead the bearer of bad news."

"Jerald date raped me when I was seventeen," I closed my eyes and blurted it out before my courage failed me.

Heidi's sharply indrawn breath pierced my soul.

"I think I should sit down now," Heidi said shakily. "What's a few wrinkles when the whole wedding is at stake."

After collapsing on the couch, Heidi asked, "Are you sure it's the same Jerald?"

Sitting down next to her, I recited, "Jerald Wharton, age 23, born June 21st in Chicago to parents Lillith and George Wharton, 5'11"...although he always claims to be six foot...around 175 pounds give or take, played quarterback in high..."

"It's the same Jerald," Heidi admitted reluctantly.

"I saw Jerald and his father for a brief moment in the lobby," I said dully. "I hadn't seen him since I was seventeen, but I would know him anywhere."

"You were only seventeen when he...?"

"If I'd only known sooner..." I began unhappily, tears forming in my eyes. "I just couldn't let you marry him not knowing..."

I took a deep breath and stood.

"He'll tell you I agreed to...to..." I faltered for a moment before continuing determinedly, "but I didn't. I said no and then I begged...and...and...I tried to fight him off, but he was too strong and...and...he _hurt_ me..." I finished in a whisper. "I have to go."

Turning blindly towards where I thought the door should be, tears streaming down my face, I was stopped before I could take a step by two arms sliding around me.

" _No_...I have to _go_..." I cried as I struggled to free myself.

Ignoring my desperate attempt to escape, Garrick pulled me close and held me there as sobs wracked my body. He never said a word, just held me.

Finally, as my wild sobs slowed to mild hiccups, I pulled back swiping at my tears with the back of my hands.

"I'm sorry," I sniffled. "I didn't mean to let loose on you like that."

"I don't mind," Garrick smiled.

"But your shirt..."

"It's not important."

Glancing around to see how Heidi was taking my outburst, I noticed we were once again alone in the room.

"Where's Heidi?" I asked in alarm. "She isn't..."

"She won't marry Jerald...not now...not _ever_..."

"But you should be there with her," I said in panic, "when she tells him. He won't take it well..."

"Heidi has three brothers, two of which can't stand Jerald anyway and all of which are _truly_ six foot tall...not just 5'11" wannabees. I'm sure they'll be able to handle it."

"I'm so sorry..."

"Do you always apologize this much?"

"Bad habit," I admitted with a watery smile. "I should get back to my hotel. Michael will be missing me and Maggie will be worried."

"Give me a few minutes to change, and I'll escort you."

"There's no need..."

"For me there is," Garrick replied mysteriously. "Promise me you won't leave the suite without me."

"But..."

"If you don't, I'll just have to wear this makeup and tear stained used-to-be-white shirt, out in public," he warned humorously. "I'm afraid that wouldn't reflect too well on either of us."

"I promise," I said dutifully.

Garrick was back within five minutes wearing jeans and a polo shirt in place of his suit and tie. For the first time since we'd met, I noticed how nicely built he was with his broad shoulders, muscular arms, and narrow hips...and my heart skipped a beat.

_Stop that,_ I berated myself.

I'd quite successfully avoided men for years, but all of a sudden I realized what I'd been missing...and my heart ached...ached for all those years of sadness and loneliness...and denial that I _was_ sad and lonely.

But Maggie knew...Maggie had lived a long time and knew _everything_...and she was always on me about finding some nice man and going out, but I knew there was no such thing...that men were bad news.

Somehow, though, I couldn't find it in me to lump Garrick with Jerald in the same bad batch. Even in the short amount of time that had elapsed since we'd met, it was obvious even to me that Garrick was different.

That thought scared me.

"You don't have to walk me back to the hotel, you know. I'm fine...really," I said nervously. "You should go down and be with your family. Heidi needs you."

"Do you know why I joined you behind that potted plant?" Garrick asked casually.

"N...n...no," I stammered.

"I was just getting off the elevator, when I saw this gorgeous brunette enter the hotel, and I said to myself...'Self'...that's how I usually start conversations when I'm talking to myself...anyway...I said 'Self, you haven't been attracted to a woman in a long time so you probably shouldn't let that one get away without at least introducing yourself'. So naturally, I followed you. Imagine my surprise when you ducked behind that huge potted plant and began peering through the leaves."

He chuckled and I couldn't help but smile, even though it was a cautious smile.

"Who's Julia?" I asked tentatively.

"My wife," he replied suddenly serious again. "She died eight years ago from ovarian cancer."

"I'm so sorry," I said, trying desperately to control the trembling of my bottom lip.

I'd already cried all over _one_ shirt, I thought it hardly appropriate to cry all over another. The way I was going, he'd have no shirts left.

"Thank you," he smiled. "You have a very tender heart."

"That's your way of saying I'm a big cry baby," I snorted and then promptly hiccupped. "Leftover..." I shrugged ruefully.

"You've had a rough time of it," Garrick moved to stand right in front of me while I craned my neck to keep eye contact.

I loved his blue eyes. They warmed me. I couldn't imagine how I ever thought they were cold.

He continued, "And I realize you need to take things slow, for Michael's sake as well as your own, but I'd like the chance to be part of your life...if you'll let me."

"But...but...we just _met_."

"And I'm not asking for a life time commitment," Garrick said, "but I want to get to know you better, and I want the chance to show you that not all men are evil."

"Why?"

"Because I feel something for you that I haven't felt in a long time...not since Julia...and if I let you walk out of my life, I may never feel that again."

"Do I remind you of her?" I asked hesitantly.

"Physically...? Not at all," Garrick grinned. "She was a redhead...hot temper and all...and a bit of a control freak. But deep down, you _are_ very similar. She was warmhearted, just like you are and strong and brave and..."

"I'm not brave," I protested, feeling the familiar lump in my throat.

No matter what, I had to tell Garrick the truth...a relationship based on a lie was no relationship at all...even if it meant he never wanted to see me again.

"I'm scared all the time and paranoid and neurotic and a total emotional mess..."

"And yet you've managed to find a family in Maggie and raise an almost five year old boy all on your own. You could have caved, Shannon, when Jerald did that to you, you could have taken the easy way out, but you didn't. You survived, and not only survived, but you _flourished_. You found a career, you raised a family, and you managed to save a wonderful young woman from making the worst mistake of her life, all while you were terrified. That's bravery...that's courage...and that's what I admire most about you."

"I don't know what to say."

"Just say you won't shut me out of your life. That's all I'm asking for right now."

"And my son...?" I asked uncertainly.

"My greatest regret is that Julia couldn't have children," Garrick admitted. "She would have made an amazing mother and I would have had a part of her to keep with me forever. If you'll let me, I'd love to get to know Michael...and Maggie. She must be an incredible woman to do what she did for you."

"She is," I agreed misty-eyed. "I wouldn't have made it without her."

"So...?"

"You won't rush me into anything...?"

"Slow and steady wins the race," Garrick grinned holding out his hand. "Do we have a deal?"

Feeling the first tentative stirrings of hope that I'd experienced in a long time, I reached out and took Garrick's hand.

"We have a deal."

The End

### Who the Heck Decided?

### By A. M. Reed

Who the heck decided girls had to wear dresses?  
Who the heck decided that it was bad to make messes?

Who the heck decided that diamonds were worth a thing?  
Who the heck decided to propose with a ring?

Who the heck decided that disco was dead?  
Who the heck decided that black was the new red?

Who the heck decided cats ruled while dogs drooled?  
Who the heck decided before you eat let it cool?

Who the heck decided vampires burn in the sun?  
Who the heck decided that there had to be none?

Who the heck decided that poetry should rhyme?  
Who the heck decided that it had to keep time?

Who the heck decided to use cursive to write?  
Who the heck decided it had to be left to right?

Who the heck decided to work and not play?  
Who the heck decided that you couldn't just lay?

Who the heck decided poetry had to be dark and depressing?  
Who the heck decided that some need redressing?

Who the heck decided life was unfair?  
Who the heck decided that you shouldn't walk on air?

Who the heck decided that anything was the way it was?  
Who the heck decided? It must've been just 'cause.

### Time and Space

### By C. L. Reed

Meet Charles Limburg. Charles is a reporter for the local newspaper. He writes a column about different events around town and human-interest stories. A job that has kept him out of fights, and out of jail. You see Charles has a very unique ability. If you ask Charles he might not call it an ability, but rather a disability. Charles is what is known in some circles as a Seer and Protector.

As Charles awoke, he knew that this was not going to be an ordinary day. The cool breeze blowing over his face was his first clue that he was not in his own bedroom where he had gone to sleep. Rising up and looking around, he found that he was on the front porch of an older but remodeled home. The porch was large and furnished with a swing and a small table. The trees were large and alive with the sound of birds. Charles had two questions: Why and Where? You see part of Charles' ability also brought him into the lives of people rather unexpectedly. Whether he had walked here in a trance, or was transported, he never knew. He only knew that he was here for a reason.

Charles knew that this mission was going to be different. Usually his visions showed him definitively who was the good guy and who was the bad guy. However, on this morning the vision was not so clear. So, before hitting this one head-on, he decided he had better do his research. Better to be prepared than be dead. As he scribbled down the address, he headed to work where he knew that he could make certain inquiries without revealing exactly why.

Benjamin Whitman was his name. A professor at the local university. A professor of anthropology. No criminal record. Not even a parking ticket. Ok. So this must be the good guy.

Instead of going back to the home of Benjamin, Charles decided that is would be much less invasive if he would just call the university and setup an appointment. 2 pm. That would be fine.

Benjamin Whitman was not a tall man. Rather thin, but definitely not skinny. You could tell from the fit of the suit that he was well built. Dark, almost black hair with a beard to match and eyebrows that almost met in the middle. As Charles interviewed the man he tried to find how in some way there may be trouble lurking for such a mild mannered individual. Again, nothing stood out as anything that could put him in danger. So finally the question: Has anything happened recently that has been out of the ordinary? The answer was not as expected. Ben described how he had seen someone or something in his house. He could not give much detail and he had only seen a glimpse of it in the mirror. As he gave the vague description, Charles began to get the picture that it was an animal. But what kind of animal, as the questions persisted. Finally, Ben revealed that what he had seen was a werewolf. Odd for most people, but not for Charles as he had seen many things stranger.

With this information, Charles headed back to do more research. Had anyone else reported animal sightings in the neighborhood? If not, then why would Ben have been the lucky one? Ben had traveled recently. Germany, South America, Africa... Black Forest, Rainforest, jungles. Yes, so maybe he had come in contact with a werewolf.

Charles decided that he should go back to Ben's home for a little more info. As Charles approached the slightly lit house, he could see a movement in the basement window. Crouching down and looking in the window, Charles could see Ben. But wait, was it really Ben. As Charles watched, it was Ben transforming into a werewolf.

Case solved. That was the reason the vision had been so unclear. Villain and victim – one and the same.

The End

### Death of a Dream

### By L. M. Reed

"What a shame!"

"A crying shame..."

"It just seems so...final."

"Yes, it does."

"Don't get too close...it's hot."

"I'll miss you...my creation."

"I'm sorry it didn't work out."

"No more than I am."

"What will you do now?"

"I don't know...I feel so empty inside...all used up...and... _hopeless_."

"Will you try again?"

"Perhaps...someday..."

"If it's any consolation, I thought it was good, if a bit...creepy."

"Thanks, but after a decade of rejection...I just don't know if I can do it anymore."

"So all those months...years...of hard work are gone...burned up...just like that..."

"Well...not exactly."

"What do you mean...not exactly?"

"I still have it saved to my hard drive."

"Then what the devil are we doing with a bonfire out here in the middle of nowhere at midnight in thirty degree weather burning a manuscript one page at a time?"

"I told you, I got a rejection letter today and was feeling low."

"But why ask _me_? We've only known each other a week."

"Oh, that, well...my other friends were...unavailable this time."

" _This_ time...you've done this before?"

"Maybe once or twice..."

"You know what? It's time to go. I'm freezing and this is just plain _nuts_."

"So I've been told. You know what my rejections used to say?"

"I'm more concerned with frostbite right now."

"That my book was unrealistic...that it lacked believability. Go figure. I mean it's based on fact...how much realism do they want."

"I think you should take me back to town now."

"Then they had the nerve to criticize my plot...said it was weak."

"I don't..."

"After that they said my supporting characters were one-dimensional."

"That's too bad. Could we...?"

"Now they tell me my main character is...well...isn't likeable or nice enough. That no one could ever identify with her. I'm likeable...aren't I?"

" _You're_ Francine...? The girl in your book...?"

"Of course, didn't you see the resemblance? No, of course not, you haven't known me long enough. Unfortunate that..."

"You mean Francine _looks_ like you...right...? I mean, she _is_ rather insane...what with the murders and the cannibalism and...stuff..."

"Yeah, right, of course that's what I mean."

"I really need to get home. We _both_ do...tomorrow's a work day."

"I'm not going into work tomorrow."

"Well _I_ am...so if you don't mind..."

"You're right. We should get this show on the road. Are you ready, then?"

"Ready...? Ready for _what_...?"

"The best part of the evening...the grand finale..."

"Which is...?"

"Time to prepare the food."

"Food...? I didn't see any food in the car. You never mentioned food."

"That's okay, I have it covered. Another chapter for my book..."

The End

### The Decision

### By A. M. Reed

What a choice...

Earlier, Kyla-Ann had watched as a human man and human woman were joined together "forever" in the bonds of holy matrimony. They had agreed to love each other for "as long as they both shall live."

And Kyla-Ann had the ability to decide exactly how long that would be.

"Beautiful wedding, wasn't it?" a teary-eyed woman joined Kyla-Ann's side, dabbing her eyes as she watched the happy couple swaying on the dance floor.

"Quite," Kyla-Ann replied shortly.

"Are you a friend of the bride or groom?"

"A friend of a friend," Kyla-Ann lied smoothly. "Pleasant day for a wedding, is it not?" she continued, steering the conversation away from dangerous channels.

"Yes, it is a nice day... Though, they picked such an odd date," the woman commented curiously, "December twenty-first... You know, the Mayans predicted that the world would end today."

"So I heard," Kyla-Ann allowed herself a ghost of a smile.

"The bride said she decided on this date because she didn't believe in such rubbish," the woman's tinkling laughter filled the air briefly, "She said that today would be a day of hope, not the end of the world."

"Charming."

"What do you think of it, dear? All of this end of the world business..."

"The Mayans simple ended a calendar," Kyla-Ann gave a small shrug, "That is not to say the world will not end today, however. One never knows..."

Aside from _me_ , she added silently.

"True," the woman nodded, "Quite true..."

"Tell me," Kyla-Ann finally turned to face the woman, "Mayan nonsense aside... what do you think of the end of the world?"

"Well, I have no doubt that it is coming... Some believe the sun will kill us, others believe we will cause our own destruction... and then" she laughed to herself, shaking her head, "the crazies believe aliens will come take over and destroy the human race! Can you believe it? Aliens! Ha!"

"Very amusing," Kyla-Ann agreed tonelessly, "Can you think of a reason these... aliens... would not wish to destroy the human race and the world along with them?"

The woman wiped away a tear of laughter as she looked at Kyla-Ann, jaw agape.

"You are joking, right? That is..."

"What redeeming qualities does the human race possess?" Kyla-Ann reasoned, "Each person pretends that their existence has meaning when in reality even the entire human population are no more than a speck in the universes. Of what importance are they?"

"I have... to... um... go over there," the woman pointed in a random direction and quickly disappeared into a small crowd of people.

"It was a simple question," Kyla-Ann sighed heavily, shaking her head, "Humans are so easily frightened."

She turned towards the dance floor again, watching the newly wed couple dance slowly, gazing into each other's eyes as if they were the only two people on Earth.

What a plethora of emotions these functions evoke, she thought wryly to herself, pleased she had stumbled upon such a large gathering of humans. All of the talk of happily every after when, with merely a call, Kyla-Ann had the ability to make their happily ever after extremely short.

Even after the music faded and everyone else sat, chattering away, the couple stayed on the dance floor, isolated in their own little world. Kyla-Ann remained standing, watching the couple as well as the guests with rapt interest, though her expression gave the impression of boredom.

She listened as a group of young woman whispered to each other jealously about their friend's marriage. At a table cattycorner from them, several young men were eyeing the girls appreciatively. Older ladies gushed about how beautiful the bride looked, comparing the wedding to theirs.

Around Kyla-Ann, life went on, completely unconcerned.

"Strange," she murmured to herself.

The happy couple finally stopped dancing and moved across the dance floor, hand in hand, to a table. They passed by Kyla-Ann and though the bride did not spare her a glance, the groom looked straight into her eyes.

His serene smile disappeared in an instant and his expression matched Kyla-Ann's.

"Colter?" The bride questioned worriedly, seeing his change in expression, "Are you okay?"

"Yes," he replied hoarsely, his eyes still glued to Kyla-Ann's, "Millie, I believe your friends wish to speak to you. I shall join you shortly."

"Okay," she smiled up at him as he kissed her forehead before she flitted off towards a group of chattering girls.

"Why are you here?" he questioned in a low tone as soon as his wife was out of earshot, "There is a treaty—"

"We were not aware your kind kept residence here," Kyla-Ann interrupted, "Our records show that only humans native to Earth reside on this planet."

"Your records are outdated, apparently. I have lived here for nearly one hundred Earth years."

"How many human wives have you taken in that time?"

"Counting Millie?" he chuckled wryly, "One. Is that relevant?"

"Curious," Kyla-Ann shrugged.

"Now answer my original question."

"You know why I came to this planet."

"No," he growled, "The treaty—"

"Is null and void on this planet," she interrupted coolly, "As I said, we were not aware that your kind resided here."

"And now you are aware," he replied simply, "Therefore any further action against Earth will be seen as an act against my people... and we both know what that would mean."

Kyla-Ann inhaled deeply and nodded.

"It seems my decision has been made for me. The Earth cannot be destroyed today due to our treaty."

"Perfect," he smiled, "Now, if you will excuse me, I have a wife waiting.

The End

### The History Lesson

### By L. M. Reed

"World History Lesson 27564-A," the mechanical voice intoned. "Connect headset and press any key to continue."

The glassy eyed youth seated in a black vinyl armchair in front of a console automatically pulled the sound-proofed headphones over his ears, plugged it into the correct port, and dutifully pressed the space bar. Next to him, his sister did the same.

A different type of voice took over once the headsets were in place, a smooth silky persuasive female voice, instructing the two young teenagers further.

"Please push the 'enter' button on your console, relax, lie back, and close your eyes," the soft feminine voice crooned.

As the youths simultaneously pushed enter, the black armchairs became recliners and both youngsters immediately shut their eyes.

"Today's lesson is perhaps one of the most important lessons in the history of the world," the pleasant, dreamlike voice continued. "In the early twenty-first century the world was in financial disaster. Health care was available only to the extremely wealthy, people all over the world were jobless, homeless, starving, and terrorism reigned supreme. Thanks to the aforethought of President Harock Bartoma and his followers those problems no longer exist."

"Once in office, President Bartoma began a health reform campaign that changed the whole world for the better. By leading the way with government-run insurance President Bartoma was able to control the spiraling costs of health care. Greedy private insurance companies were forced out of business, unable to compete with the low cost of government insurance, thereby effectively controlling the price of all health services."

"Although the waiting period for a doctor appointment was longer than anticipated at the beginning of the program, by allowing nurse practitioners and physician assistants to see patients unsupervised by a doctor, the span was reduced to a mere 3 months insuring prompt medical attention, and of course any patients with actual life threatening problems were still able to use the emergency rooms."

"The government—instead of money grubbing medical professionals— then began to decide which procedures were necessary according to a prescribed formula which took into account the patient's age, general over-all health which included a diet analysis as well as their status as a smoker and/or drinker, projected life-span, and future earning potential. Because of this formula, health care costs were not only cut by more than half, but the public's general health has improved dramatically with a drastic reduction in numbers of the medically fragile, the acutely ill, the elderly, and the mentally and physically handicapped."

"Because of the intervention of the government, now patients can visit an automated doctor by simply using a home console furnished to each member of a family. By placing the attached medical vest over your clothing and the armband around your bare upper arm, the console reads all of your vitals, and checks your blood for signs of infection. The slide out at the base of the console provides x-ray capability when necessary. Health care made simple. Any medicines needed are delivered through the tubing systems, which will be touched upon later in this lesson. In the event of an acute illness, the information is sent to the central office and processed in due time in order to determine a treatment plan.

"The importance of the emergence of a government-run insurance program cannot be overstated. With the passing of this bill the floodgates opened which gave rise to the numerous other efficient and cost-saving government run programs that followed."

"One such program dealt with the high unemployment rate of the early twenty-first century. The government's first attempt to find jobs for everyone forced employers to hire a certain percentage of the unemployed in order to meet a quota. Although it worked for a time, many businesses began to fail, having to pay for more employees than their businesses could sustain. As the businesses began to fail, the government interceded in an attempt to bail them out and help keep the economy stable."

"Within a few decades the government owned and ran 90% of the businesses thereby ensuring that everyone was employed."

"Another efficient federal program which arose after the Freddie May and Fannie Mack disasters had to do with home mortgages, an outdated method of potential home ownership by individuals. The government began looking at long-term fixes for home owners in order to ensure that no one was homeless. Realizing that more government control was needed in order to protect the financial security of every constituent, the government began slowly taking over banks and loaning institutions, generously bailing-out these institutions."

"More and more people were living in government funded housing and that spurred the extremely well thought out living facilities that we all enjoy today. Unlike those uncertain times, people no longer need worry about where they will live since the government assigns each family living quarters. In order to be fair to all walks of life, each family unit now occupies a pod consisting of a living area, food consumption area, three bedrooms and one bathroom each resplendent with stationary furniture."

"Because of the space each family is allowed it made sense to limit each family size to four individuals. A family might be defined in many different ways, allowing for personal lifestyle choices, but once a family unit is in place switching pods with someone in another family is the only legal manner in which a change can be made."

"To ensure adherence to the family limits placed on each pod, all females above the age of ten are required to take a pregnancy test once a month. The console is fully equipped with all the essentials for such tests and the results are automatically sent to the center for processing. Once a female has birthed two children, she must report to the center for a hysterectomy."

"No one in any pod is allowed to marry until there is an empty pod available for them to occupy unless there is space in one of their respective families' current pods for both of them. Newly married couples are not allowed to have children until a space in their pod becomes available."

"Once the government had the medical, job, and housing situations under control their next move was to create a society where every one would be physically fit and no one would suffer from starvation. Since the government was paying people to work, furnishing them houses, and keeping them healthy it only made sense to ensure the continuation of good health by requiring everyone to maintain a regulated lifestyle which included a wholesome nutritional diet as well as an exercise schedule."

"To avoid the horrid obesity of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries each family member must exercise on the treadmill attached to their personal console for twenty minutes every day. Every individual is required to wear the vest attached to the treadmill which monitors all activity and sends the report to the central office."

"The tube system mentioned earlier in the lesson became a necessary part of daily living by the late twenty-first century in order to distribute proper nutrition to all parts of the country. Every thriving metropolis was required to build a tube system much like the water and sewer systems already in place. Through this tube, meals and stainless steel water bottles are sent to each pod on a set schedule. Everyone is required to eat three meals and drink 8 bottles of water each and every day. This guarantees that no one will go hungry or thirsty or become overweight by eating the wrong foods or too much of the right foods."

"With the tube system in place, the government was able to begin supplying every individual with all of their personal needs including clothing, items of hygiene, as well as facial tissues and toilet tissue. All rations were based on formulas developed for an average person's daily needs. Every morning each family member receives their cleaned and pressed uniform for the day and sends their nightclothes down the laundry chute to be cleaned. Every evening the uniforms must be sent down the laundry chute for cleaning and each member receives their night clothes."

"Because the government was already paying the cost of keeping each and every individual supplied with food, clothing, shelter, as well as all personal items, it only made sense for the government to garnish wages in order to pay for all expenses incurred by each family. With this system in place currency eventually became obsolete with all wages going to the government which was in charge of seeing that every individual was supplied with the necessities of life."

"Transportation is another thing that has changed for the better since the turn of the century. Once President Bartoma managed to pass laws limiting the type of vehicles made in the USA, it was a short jump to requiring everyone not driving an alternately fueled vehicle to turn in their old gas guzzling clunkers and only use public transportation and enforcing the regulation that all public transportation must use only renewable resources for fuel thus cutting down on emissions."

"These requirements were made easier once the law stating that all children under the age of 18 must spend eight hours a day in front of their home school consoles came into effect and all young people between the ages of 18 and 25 attend and reside at the militia academy to train for future use as civilian peacekeepers. The savings on transportation and greenhouse gases has been enormous."

"Eventually all private transportation gave way to public transportation. Now the only privately owned vehicles on the road are for governmental use."

"Also, to conserve energy, utilities are limited to daylight hours only. All lights are turned out by the central office within thirty minutes of sundown and turned back on thirty minutes before sun up. All showers or baths are limited to 5 minutes of flow time and toilets may only be flushed during daylight hours. The use of intercom communication between pods is limited to twenty uses a day and may not be used after dark."

"Kitchens, an unnecessary use of space many years ago, are now called food consumption areas. All food items sent to family pods arrive in that room packaged in biodegradable wrap which are sent down the trash chute located in that same area after each meal. There is no longer any need for food storage, cooking, or washing dishes therefore kitchens have become obsolete."

"In order to assure that each living space is kept dust-free, once a day all members of the family are required to either exit the premises or stand in their specified airlock for 15 minutes while the entire pod is suctioned out of all dirt and debris by the central vacuuming system."

"Your history lesson for the day is now complete. It is now time to hydrate. Enjoy your bottled water and a bathroom break. Return for your science lesson in ten minutes. Please remove your head set and press the red button on your chair now."

The two youths simultaneously took off their headphones and pressed the red button. Both chairs moved into the upright position. Standing mechanically both children stood and moved towards the bathroom. Like characters in a well-rehearsed play the young girl entered the bathroom first and, after she had emerged, the boy took his turn.

Extracting their stainless steel water bottles from the tube, the two drank the water and then sent the empties down the recycle shoot to be sterilized, resealed, and reused. Silently the children moved back to their consoles ready to begin their next lesson.

The End

Wake Up Little Lucy

### By L. M. Reed

"Come on Lucy, it's just a movie," Eddie cajoled.

"My mom isn't gonna let me go anywhere with you for a long, long time," the girl replied in irritation. "You're lucky my dad didn't shoot you. I told you we didn't have time to go up to the Pointe, but you wouldn't listen."

"We were only thirty minutes late," he protested defensively "nobody has an eleven o'clock curfew on the weekends."

"Well I did, but thanks to you I have no curfew now," Lucy replied angrily.

"No curfew..." Eddie began in excitement.

"Because I'm grounded you idiot."

"Oh."

"So no movie, no Pointe, no nothing," Lucy said in disgust. "I can't even go to the Library because of you."

"No Pointe?" he repeated morosely.

"You are so...so...ugh," Lucy got up from the cafeteria table and made her way to the nearest exit leaving her tray for Eddie to take care of muttering furiously under her breath "It's a good thing we have chemistry because otherwise you'd be history."

~**~

"Mom...please," Lucy begged "we were only thirty minutes late and Eddie's watch stopped working and it wasn't our fault..."

"Stop the whining, I've got a splitting headache," her mother complained.

"I have a paper due on Monday and I really need to go to the public library to do my research," Lucy wailed. "I just need a couple of hours...that's all. I promise I'll be back by eleven this time."

"Oh no you don't," her mother shook her head and then grabbed it abruptly between her two hands "my poor aching head," she moaned.

"But Mom..."

"Now you listen to me young lady, we've already tried the eleven o'clock curfew and you couldn't handle it so you will be back her by ten o'clock tonight, before your father gets off his shift, or you won't see the outside of your room except for school until you're twenty-one...do we understand each other?"

"You're the greatest!" Lucy enthused kissing her mother on the cheek. "I won't be late...I promise."

As Lucy bounced from the room, her mother rose slowly from the couch where she'd been reclining in a futile attempt to rid herself of the pounding in her head and moved slowly towards the kitchen.

"I'm never volunteering for Den Mother duty again," she muttered as she pushed open the swinging door to the kitchen.

~**~

"Whaddya bring him for, Spence?"

"It's my cousin," Spence shrugged "he wants in."

"We don't need no kids messin' things up."

"I won't..." the kid in question piped up only to be interrupted abruptly by a slap on the back of the head.

"Lesson number one, Stupid, don't talk unless I say you can."

The kid nodded obediently, resisting the urge to rub the back of his head.

"What's your name, kid?"

"Hal Reid...and I promise I won't be..."

Whack! The slap was harder and Hal couldn't stop himself from rubbing the back of his head tenderly.

"I tole you to keep your trap shut."

"Look, Vinnie, the kid's sixteen and he has his license."

"His license, huh? Well maybe we could use you after all," Vinnie eyed Hal with more interest. "You like to drive, kid?"

Hal nodded eagerly, afraid to say anything, still smarting from the previous two smacks on the head.

"And you want to be part of our gang?" he continued.

Again, Hal silently signaled his fervor.

"Great, then here's what you gotta do. You see we got this, you might call it an adventure, planned for tonight and we need you to..."

~**~

"Oh come on," Felix begged. "We never have any fun."

"You think that's fun," Mick's lips twisted sardonically.

"Well, it's better than sitting around here watching you mess with your stupid motorcycle all the time."

"I'm sorry you feel that way," Mick replied quietly. "I didn't realize you thought spending time with me was so boring."

Mick stood up and closing his small toolbox, left the garage without another word.

"I didn't mean it like that," Felix called after him "Aw, man...Mick...come back...I'm sorry..."

His words faded as Mick entered the kitchen of the old ranch house.

"Did you figure out what was wrong with your motorcycle?" the middle-aged woman sitting at the table peeling potatoes asked curiously.

"Nah, I'll have another look at it tomorrow," Mick bent down and planted a kiss on the woman's forehead. "I'll go get cleaned up. Do you need any help?"

"I'm fine. You're a good boy, Mick, I just wish Felix..." she trailed off unhappily.

"He's alright, Ma, just feeling his oats."

"I don't know," his mother replied worriedly "I used to think so, but ever since he started hanging out with that Reid kid he's been getting into trouble at school."

"Well, I'm home now, so maybe that'll help."

"But you'll be starting college after Christmas..."

"Yeah, about that, I thought maybe I should stay around here and start at the community college in town...you know, get my basics in. I've been gone a long time and I've missed you and Felix."

"You don't have to do that, you know," his mother smiled tremulously.

"I want to," Mick assured her. "Since Uncle Sam will be paying for school, I'll be able to get a job and help with the bills and things."

"Mick, I don't want to take anymore of your money..."

"You're not taking...I'm giving," Mick interrupted firmly.

His mother sighed heavily as she stood up and moved to the sink to rinse the potatoes.

"Where's Felix?" she asked changing the subject.

"He's still out in the garage...he wanted me to borrow your car and take him to the drive-in, but..."

"You're welcome to go, there's plenty of gas."

"Yeah, but it's such a waste of..."

"That's great Mom," Felix enthused as he joined them, allowing the back screen door to slam shut "See Mick, Mom even wants us to go. Please...it'll be fun...I promise."

"Mom almost has supper ready," Mick objected.

"We can pick up hot dogs at the movie," Felix countered.

"Go, Mick, enjoy yourself for once," she insisted. "I'll feed you meatloaf tomorrow night. It'll keep. Please...for me."

"Alright, but I have to clean up first," Mick grumbled.

~**~

"Mom, I'm leaving now," Lucy called as soon as she hit the foyer, eager to be gone.

There was no answer. Peering curiously into the living room, Lucy saw that her mother was fast asleep on the couch, a half-empty shot glass on the coffee table in front of the sofa.

"Wow, she must have one heck of a headache," Lucy muttered eyeing the glass.

Shrugging, Lucy turned to leave, stopping suddenly as she hit the foyer as if changing her mind about something. Determinedly she returned to the living room and picking up the shot glass, sniffed the contents.

"Bottoms up," she grinned wickedly to herself as she tipped the contents into her mouth and downed the whole thing in one swallow.

"Ugh...that is vile!" she exclaimed in disgust as she set the glass back down onto the table. "No wonder my parents don't drink much."

Her musings were interrupted by a soft moan and, after casting an anxious glance at her mother, she hastily left the house.

~**~

"You made it!" Eddie swept Lucy up in his arms and swung her around.

"Put me down you idiot!" Lucy hissed, pushing at his broad shoulders and glancing around to assure no one was watching. "I told you I would be able to talk my mom into it," she continued haughtily as she smoothed her hair and clothing.

"Let's go, the movie starts in ten minutes and we're gonna be late," he urged her towards the exit of the library.

"Fine...whatever," Lucy yawned unconcernedly as she was hauled away.

~**~

"You didn't tell me we were making this a threesome," Mick growled. "I don't know why you and your friend needed me along."

"Hal doesn't have a car and I don't have my license yet," Felix shrugged.

"So basically I'm just your glorified chauffeur...nice."

"C'mon, Mick, give me a break. Mom's been on my case all year, grounding me for everything."

"I'm guessing you deserved it."

"Here comes Hal...please cool it, okay Mick."

"Fine," Mick agreed irately as Hal opened the back door of the old sedan.

"Hey Mick, I'm Hal," the tall, thin, red-headed teenager greeted him enthusiastically. "Thanks for giving us a ride."

"Yeah, that's what I'm here for," Mick replied sarcastically as he pulled away from the curb.

~**~

"I can't find a parking place," Eddie whined in frustration, "I told you we were gonna be late."

"Park anywhere," Lucy replied disinterestedly without opening her eyes. "We've already seen the movie."

"True," Eddie laughed, appeased "doesn't matter where we make out."

Lucy sighed and made herself more comfortable in her seat while Eddie found a dark empty corner of the drive-in by the restrooms where he could safely park.

After shutting off the engine, he moved over towards Lucy eagerly and began pulling her towards him, but the steering wheel kept hitting him in the side every time he turned and his companion didn't appear to be actively participating, refusing to meet him halfway, not even willing to open her eyes.

"Hey, I've got an idea..." he hopped out and moved around the car to open Lucy's door.

"What...?" Lucy asked, eyes widening in surprise. "Is the movie already over?"

"Nah," Eddie replied confidently "we're just getting started. Come on, Sleepyhead, let's get in the back where there's more room."

"Okay," Lucy yawned allowing her self to be guided out of the front seat.

"Now that's more like," Eddie said in satisfaction as he put his arms around Lucy finding her lips with his.

"Hmm..." Eddie murmured, repeating "now that's more like it. How long do we have?"

"I have to be home by ten," Lucy answered more energetically hands eagerly exploring his broad chest and muscled arms.

As Eddie lips began nuzzling her neck and earlobes, Lucy's passion seemed to cool and her body slackened until her arms fell away from him and her head lolled backwards limply.

"You smell so good," Eddie murmured in her ear, oblivious of her lack of participation. "Do you want to...you know...go all the way?" he asked hopefully, his hungry hands moving over her lifeless body as he continued raining kisses on her. "We have plenty of time."

At her non-response, he pulled back a bit and reassuringly offered "If it's too soon, that's okay...I just thought...since we been going together for a while..." he stopped abruptly finally noticing that her eyes were closed and she was not answering.

"Lucy...Lucy...?" he repeated laying her head gently on the seat. "What's wrong? Lucy...?" he began to panic, shaking her in his alarm, his voice growing louder in proportion to his rising hysteria. "Lucy...wake up! Lucy...don't be dead! Oh please don't be dead. What do I do?"

Sitting up and away from her, terror in his eyes, he fumbled with the door handle and stumbled out of the car, slamming it shut behind him. Unsteadily, he made his way into the men's bathroom and, bending over the toilet, he promptly lost his supper.

~**~

"I've gotta visit the head," Mick informed the two teenage boys who were lying on the hood of the car.

"Hey, would you mind stopping by and grabbing us some more popcorn and cokes?" Hal asked casually.

"No problem," Mick grumbled as he pocketed his car keys and strode away. "I'm made of money."

As Mick stood in front of the urinal, he could hear what sounded like someone puking his guts out in one of the stalls. He hurriedly zipped up and moved over to the sink to wash his hands, eager to be out of there.

"Sorry," a shaky voice from beside him apologized as the unfortunate guy liberally splashed his face with water.

"I've seen worse," Mick shrugged, drying his hands.

He emerged from the bathroom just in time to see Hal and Felix hop into a strange car about fifty feet away.

" _Hey! That's my car!"_ the guy from the bathroom yelled at the two kids as Hal shoved the car in drive and spun out, heading towards the exit.

Mick immediately grabbed the previously puking guy, hauling him over towards his own car.

"Whaddya think you're doing? Hey! Let go of me. I gotta go after..."

"That was your car," Mick interrupted without breaking his stride or releasing his hold on the guy's sleeve "and my brother was one of the idiots who took off in it."

" _Your brother!"_ he exploded.

"I'm Mick, by the way."

"Eddie," he answered distractedly.

"So, Eddie, I'm going after them. Are you coming with me or not?" Mick asked as he relinquished his hold and jumped into the driver's seat of his mom's car.

"Yeah, I'm coming," he grumbled as he joined Mick in the car. "They mess up my paint job and I'll mess up their faces."

"We have to find them first," Mick reminded him. "When Mom finds out that Felix is involved in Grand Theft Auto his butt is so grounded."

"Grounded...oh no...Lucy..."

"You named your car Lucy?"

"No, my girlfriend Lucy, I think she's dead."

"You think she's dead?"

"She seemed okay when we got in the back seat, but then she suddenly went limp and I couldn't wake her."

"Wait a minute...your girlfriend is in the back of your car...the one that just got stolen?" Mick asked incredulously.

"Yeah."

"And you were concerned with your paint job?"

"Hey, I paid a lot of money for that striping."

"Can you spell 'idiot'?" Mick muttered as he turned onto the highway.

~**~

"Wait over there in those bushes."

"Why can't I go in with you? What's going on?"

"Look, I'll explain later, but right now I can't let Vinnie or my cousin Spence see you...especially Vinnie," Hal shuddered. "Hurry up...I'm late and I don't think they're gonna be happy about it. I can't believe how anal your brother is that he would take his car keys to the bathroom with him and force me into finding another car."

"Hal, I don't like the way this is going," Felix said doubtfully. "You said we were just gonna take it for a spin."

"And we are...now get out," Hal reached over and opened Felix's door and shoved him out. "I'll be back in a flash.

As soon as Hal honked, the huge warehouse door swung open and Hal drove in.

"Sweet ride," Spence whistled through his teeth as Hal emerged from the car.

"Yeah...sweet...and conspicuous," Vinnie frowned.

"It'll be fine, Vinnie, we'll be in and out before anyone knows what we're doing," Spence murmured to him.

"Here," Vinnie handed Hal a small wad of bills, "now get lost."

"But..."

"I told you to shut it. I don't like 'buts'. Your part is done now amscray before I change my mind and take back the dough."

"How do you expect me to get home?" Hal whined.

"Do I look like I care?"

"But..."

"There's that word again. If you're still here in five seconds I'll be kicking your butt."

"B..."

"Don't push him," Spence hissed furiously in his ear. "Get out of here while you still can," he finished as he shoved him towards the door.

~**~

"Wonder where he's going in such a hurry," Eddie commented idly as he watched the police car in front of them hang a U-turn and speed back towards the downtown area.

"No telling," Mick replied absently, craning forward over the steering wheel as his headlights picked up two figures by the side of the road.

"Isn't that...?"

"Looks like it," Mick sighed in resignation as he pulled over.

"Mick...!" Felix exclaimed in surprise as his brother emerged from the car. "What are you doing here?"

"I think there is a different, slightly more important question here."

"I'm just gonna go now..." Hal began inching away.

"Oh no you don't," Eddie appeared next to Mick and grabbed a handful of Hal's hair. "You jacked my ride...where is it?"

"I think you have me confused with someone else," Hal whimpered.

"Where's my car you...?"

"I'm telling you I don't know what you're talking about."

"I saw you, you stupid punk..."

"Hal," Mick interrupted calmly "there is a girl in the backseat who may or may not be injured..."

"Or dead," Eddie put in.

"Or dead," Mick conceded "and we need to find that car right away."

"I didn't see a girl," Felix replied in alarm.

"Aha, so you admit you stole my car," Eddie said triumphantly.

Ignoring him, Mick continued, "Where did you dump the car?"

"We didn't dump it..."

"Shut up, Felix," Hal ordered angrily. "There was no girl in the car; they're just trying to trick us."

"Felix, you know I don't lie," Mick reminded him sternly.

"He gave the car to Vinnie and his cousin Spence at an empty warehouse on the west side of town."

"Felix, you wuss..."

"Shut up, Hal," Felix retorted furiously. "You've gotten us in enough trouble. You said we were just taking it out for a spin. I didn't know you were planning to actually steal it, much less sell it. If something happens to that girl..."

"You sold my car? Eddie asked incredulously.

"Why did they want it?" Mick redirected the conversation.

"I think they were going to use it for a getaway car or something."

" _My car!"_ Eddie wailed.

"That police car we passed..." Mick began speculatively then stopped abruptly and ordered, "Get in, both of you. Eddie, why don't you ride in the back with our reluctant friend in order to keep him in line and Felix, you hop in the front. We have some things to discuss."

"Aw...man," Felix muttered as he collapsed into the front seat "I'm gonna be grounded for life."

"Go ahead and try something, punk," Eddie taunted as he shoved the hapless Hal into the back seat "then I'll have an excuse to pound you into the dirt you scumbag."

~**~

"Alright!" Spence crowed as he dumped the money out of the bag. "Not bad."

"Don't go spending it yet," Vinnie warned "we still have a few more places to hit before we dump the car."

"Where to next?"

"I was thinking about that hardware store a couple of blocks from here. The cops will be busy for a while with the five and dime so we should have plenty of time. Throw the money in the back seat. We'll need the bag to empty the cash register again."

"Think we'll make enough to buy a ride like this?"

"Maybe we'll just keep this one...change the license plate and repaint it. It drives nice."

"Yeah, we could do that."

"There it is. Everything's closed and it looks dark and deserted. Let's do this."

As the doors slammed shut, the figure in the back moaned and turned over, falling onto the floorboards.

~**~

"You pig!"

"Give me a break, Valerie, I didn't mean for this to happen."

"That's what they all say," Valerie folded her arms and averted her face.

"No, really...."

"Look, Stewart, I didn't want to go on this date in the first place, but our mom's insisted. I can't wait to throw this in their faces. 'Stewart claims he ran out of gas'. They won't believe you any more than I do."

"Fine," Stewart huffed getting out of the car "switch with me and you get the stupid thing started. It's not even my car. How was I to know the gage was broken. It says it's still half full."

Valerie got out and as they passed each other in the headlights, Stewart's face was set angrily and Valerie's was smug.

"I'll get myself home," she said condescendingly as she attempted to start the engine.

A few minutes later, after growing more frantic with each try, she turned to Stewart and accused angrily "You did something under the hood."

"Right...I'm a magician and I waved my wand and voila...it wouldn't start," Stewart's lips curled derisively. "Just admit you were wrong and get over it already. If I'd wanted to make out with you...which I don't...I'd have taken you up to the Pointe, not pretended to run out of gas in the emptiest, creepiest part of town. Now as I see it, you have two choices; you can stay here and pout or you can come with me to find a phone and call our parents. At this point, I couldn't care less what you do."

"You wouldn't really leave me here alone?" Valerie asked, suddenly afraid.

"I'm seriously considering it."

~**~

"Looks like someone robbed the five and dime," Mick commented.

"Oh, man," Eddie scrunched down in the back seat.

"What?"

"Officer Jenkins..."

"You know him?"

"That's her dad."

"Whose dad...?"

"Lucy...that's her dad."

"You misplaced a cop's daughter?" Hal laughed. "I'd hate to be you right now."

"Correction: you are the one who misplaced her and I think being you is bad enough right now without adding to it by making your captor angry," Mick pointed out. "Stay here."

Mick got out of the car and had a short conversation with Officer Jenkins and then returned to the car.

"Well, it looks like the only witness saw two men leaving the store carrying a bag and taking off in a car that could have been yours. They parked in the alley and it was too dark for them to see clearly."

"My poor car," Eddie moaned.

"You're a moron," Felix pronounced in disgust.

~**~

"Piece of cake," Vinnie crowed as he and Spence exited through the broken glass window.

"Um...Vinnie...where did you park the car?"

"Right there, Dumbbell...Hey! Where's the car?"

"I asked you first."

Vinnie slapped him on the back of the head "Shut up and help me find it."

~**~

"Valerie, this is wrong, we need to take this car back immediately," Stewart demanded angrily.

"No! We've been walking for hours and still no phone...everything around here is closed and my feet ache."

"We've been walking for exactly fifteen minutes and you just committed a felony."

"You got in the car, too," she pointed out.

"To try to talk some sense into you, stupid," he said in disgust. "You stole someone's car. Stop now!"

"They shouldn't have left it in a deserted alley with the motor running. It might as well have had a sign on it that read 'take me'."

"I can't believe I ever agreed to go out with you. This is a nightmare."

"You are such a goody-two-shoes."

"Valerie..." Stewart began warningly.

"Fine," Valerie huffed and pulled over as they approached the park "I'll stop and let you drive and you can take the silly thing back to where we found it."

They both opened their doors and as Stewart shut his and started around the car Valerie slammed hers shut without getting out and stomped on the accelerator.

"Valerie..." Stewart yelled futilely after the receding taillights.

~**~

"Hey, I know that guy," Eddie frowned. "He's in my homeroom."

"He looks like he needs help," Mick slowed down as he approached the solitary figure attempting to wave them down. "Should we stop?"

"His dad's a minister I think, so yeah...we need all the goodwill we can get."

Felix rolled down his window as the car pulled up level with the guy.

"Thanks for stopping," he panted.

"You're Stewart Simpson, right?" Eddie asked from the back seat.

"Yeah, do I know you?"

"Eddie Finch, we're in the same homeroom."

"Oh yeah, you're the football player who sleeps most of the time."

"That's me," Eddie replied with a grin. "And you're the smart dude that makes the rest of us look bad."

"Guilty as charged," Stewart smiled back. "Look, I know this is a lot to ask but the girl I was on a date with has...well...borrowed someone's car without asking...long story...and I was hoping you could take me to her house so I could return the car to the alley where we found it."

"We're kinda in the middle of something..." Eddie began.

"Where exactly did you find the car?" Mick interrupted.

"It was in an alley behind some stores a couple of blocks off of Main Street," Stewart explained. "Some idiot left it running and Valerie was...well...I'd run out of gas and..."

"Score," Eddie grinned.

"It wasn't like that," Stewart grimaced. "I borrowed my brother's car and the gage is apparently broken and we ran out of gas in the part of town that totally shuts down after six and I couldn't find a phone."

"What did the car look like," Mitch asked suspiciously.

"It was an unusual shade of blue and it had pin stripes..."

" _My car!"_ Eddie shouted.

"Your car...?" Stewart asked in confusion.

"Hop in the back, no not that side, go around, and we'll explain on the way," Mitch ordered. "Give me your girlfriend's address," he continued as soon as Stewart shut the door.

"Definitely not my girlfriend," Stewart muttered before giving Mick directions.

~**~

"Freeze! Hands in the air," Officer Jenkins barked.

"Oh man," Spence moaned as he lifted his hands over his head. "My mom's gonna kill me."

"Don't say nothin'," Vinnie commanded. "They ain't got nothin' on us."

"Right," Officer Jenkins offered sarcastically from behind "except for the money falling out of that bag your friend is holding."

"Oh man," Spence repeated as one of the cops confiscated the bag and a couple of others patted them down, handcuffed them, and read them their rights.

"Oh shut up already," Vinnie ordered irritably.

~**~

"My car's not here," Eddie groaned "my poor car."

"Shut up about your car, you idiot," Stewart snorted in disgust. "Your girlfriend is in the back seat and all you can do is moan about the stupid car. Why didn't I even look back there? I would never have..."

"Not your fault," Mick broke in impatiently. "I'm guessing Valerie's already home. Do you know which window is hers?"

"No, I don't know her that well, as I said our parents set up the date."

"Come with me," Mick ordered as he got out.

"Mick, my car..." Eddie whined.

"She probably ditched it somewhere close," Mick cut him off. "We'll see if we can find out. Be right back."

Mick and Stewart circled the house and found a light on in one of the upstairs rooms.

"I'm thinking that's probably hers," Mick whispered. "See if you can find something to throw at the window to get her attention."

They searched the area and found a few small pebbles from the flower bed.

Mick began showering the window until the curtain opened.

"That's her," Stewart said excitedly. "Valerie, open the window," he called as loudly as he dared.

She didn't appear to hear so Mick tossed a few more pebbles.

The window flew up and an angry voice asked, "Who's there?"

"Valerie, it's me, Stewart."

"Go away," she commanded as she moved to shut the window.

"Where's the car?" Mick asked quickly.

"Who's that?"

"A friend of mine," Stewart answered hastily. "I found the owner of the car and..."

"I don't know what car you're talking about," Valerie replied haughtily. "Go away."

"Listen you witch, I'll report your theft if you don't help us."

"You were there, too."

"Just tell us where you ditched the car and we'll leave...I swear that's all we want."

"Okay but if you..."

" _The car..."_ Mick interrupted abruptly.

"It's one block over," she answered airily as she began to close the window.

"Which direction?" Stewart asked in frustration.

"I don't know directions, I parked it in front of Old Man Greer's house," and with that the window closed decisively and Valerie pulled the curtains.

"I guess that's better than nothing," Stewart muttered.

"So where's my car," Eddie asked excitedly as soon as Mick and Stewart made it back to the others.

"One block over, but we're not sure which way so we'll spread out and look," Mick instructed.

The three occupants of the car got out and while Mick was assigning directions, Hal took off running.

"Hey, come..." Eddie began only to be halted abruptly by Mick.

"Quiet," Mick hissed. "Let him go. I know where he lives. We'll each take a street and then meet back here. One of us is bound to find it. All of us have seen the car, so it shouldn't be hard to recognize. Okay, go."

Mick found the car right away and jerked the back door open expectantly, but it was empty.

Perplexed he searched the front and back seats and popped the trunk, but there was absolutely nothing there; not even the keys.

He returned to his mom's car and rejoined the others.

"Well...?" Eddie was chomping at the bit.

"I found the car..."

"Yippee," Eddie yelled and started in the direction he'd seen Mick take.

"Wait," Mick called.

"What?" Eddie stopped and turned fearfully. "Is it...wrecked?"

"No, but..."

"Alright...I'm outta here."

"Lucy isn't in the car and I couldn't find the keys, either."

"No keys?" he repeated in disappointment

"Why should I expect anything better from him?" Mick asked himself rhetorically.

"Where's the keys?"

"I don't care," Mick growled "I'm more concerned with what happened to your girlfriend."

"Yeah, that too," he returned impatiently "but where's the keys?"

"I think it's time we called the police," Mick sighed in resignation.

"No...no way..." Eddie panicked. "Lucy's dad'll shoot me."

"That would be no more than you deserve," Stewart put in.

"Mick, you don't want Felix in trouble either do you?" Eddie pleaded.

"No, but I think he should pay for what he's done."

"Mick...I promise I won't ever do anything like this again," Felix swore. "Please, can't we just try to find her on our own?"

"She may be hurt...or worse...and I can't believe I've been this irresponsible. I should have told Officer Jenkins when I talked to him at the five and dime. I was trying to protect you, but I was wrong. There are consequences when you break the law and you should have to face them. Besides the fact that we are all out of clues."

"You're right," Felix admitted head bowed. "I'm sorry."

"Officer Jenkins is probably home or on the way home by now," Eddie said in resignation. "His shift ended fifteen minutes ago. We should probably head there first."

"Let's go," Mick sighed.

~**~

"I think I have something that belongs to you," the middle-aged man greeted the wide-eyed boy amiably.

"Lucy...is she okay...what's wrong with her?"

"So she lives here?" the man persisted.

"Yeah, she's my sister. What's wrong with her?"

"She is simply asleep, although I am fairly certain that it is an unnatural sleep. And what is your name, young man?"

"Timothy...Tim for short."

"Well, Tim for Short, if you would be so kind as to take your sister's purse and lead me to her room...she is a bit heavy."

"Oh, yeah, sure thing," the boy moved towards the stairs. "Follow me."

"Of course there would be stairs," the man muttered as he trailed after the boy, the sleeping girl slung over his shoulder in a fireman's lift.

~**~

"Hey, Squirt," Eddie absently rubbed Tim's head as he stood in the doorway. "Is your dad home yet?"

"No, there were some robberies and he's still processing the suspects," Tim answered importantly. "Who're they?" he asked curiously pointing to the three standing behind Eddie.

"What about your mom?" Eddie asked ignoring Tim's curiosity.

"She's still asleep on the couch. I can check and see if Lucy's awake yet."

"Lucy...Lucy's here?"

"Yeah, some old guy brought her home. It was weird. She never woke up. He said to let her sleep it off and she would be fine."

"Can we look in on her?" Mick asked quietly from behind Eddie "Just to make sure she's okay?"

"I guess," Tim answered doubtfully. "I wasn't even supposed to answer the door with Mom asleep and Dad not here, but the guy was carrying Lucy and since I recognized Eddie..." he trailed off.

"Don't worry," Mick smiled reassuringly. "We won't tell anyone. You're secret is safe with us."

~**~

The large Victorian house was dark as the man pulled up into the driveway. He stuffed the keys into the glove box along with the registration papers he had perused earlier and closed it decisively.

He stood on the sidewalk for a moment and then shaking his head, he began the long walk home.

"Kids..." he muttered under his breath.

~**~

"Thanks for the lift...and the gas," Stewart offered gratefully as he shook hands with Mick over the back of the seat.

"No problem," Mick replied as he popped the trunk of the car.

Stewart retrieved the gas can and moved towards his brother's car, thankfully sitting exactly where he'd left it.

"I'll make sure you can get it started and then we'll take off."

Mick waited until Stewart had the car started before pulling away.

"Thanks again," Stewart called out the window as they drove off.

The trio rode in silence, Eddie morosely staring out the window, wondering how he would retrieve his car with no key...he had no spare...Felix, head bowed, dreading the thought of facing his mother, and Mick, lost in his own thoughts, yearning for the simplicity of army life again and wondering if he should reenlist.

As they pulled up in front of Eddie's house Mick asked in surprise "Isn't that your car, Eddie?"

"My car..." Eddie's head jerked up and he was out and running before Mick had come to a complete halt.

Mick and Felix watched in wonder as Eddie planted kisses on the car and stroked it tenderly, finally laying his head on the roof, hugging it.

"They make a nice couple," Mick murmured in amusement as he put the car into gear.

~**~

"I didn't know it was a sleeping draught I drank," Lucy whined. "It wasn't my fault."

"Yeah, well, I'm not risking it again."

"Eddie, come on, my mom is fine with me going to the library. We could go straight to the Pointe this time and skip the movie," she coaxed.

"No way! When you're not grounded anymore let me know. I'm not sneaking around like that ever again. It isn't worth it."

"You are such a drama queen," Lucy accused. "So I fell asleep...what's the big deal?"

"You don't know the half of it," Eddie hung up abruptly adding to himself "and hopefully you never will."

~**~

"So did you and Felix have a good time?"

"I wouldn't go straight to 'good' but it was an most enlightening evening," Mick replied carefully.

"Felix seemed...different this morning...more cooperative and...well...nicer."

"We reached an understanding last night and I don't think you'll have to worry about him anymore."

"You are such a good boy, Mick," his mother kissed his cheek and returned to her knitting. "Thank you."

"That's what I'm here for."

~**~

"So your cousin didn't turn you in?" Felix asked in disbelief.

"Nah, Spence said that Vinnie didn't want to add Grand Theft Auto to their crimes so I'm home free," he laughed, "unless your brother decides to turn me in and you know, if I go down I'm taking you with me."

"Don't worry. My brother and I struck a deal and I'm good with it."

"What kind of deal?" Hal asked suspiciously.

"I have to get a job."

"Is that all?"

"Well, that plus I agreed to dump you."

~**~

"Valerie's mom called me this morning."

"Oh...what did she say," Stewart asked warily.

"Valerie had such a good time last night that she's agreed to go out with you again."

"No way, Mom," Stewart replied vehemently.

"You didn't have a good time?"

"Valerie is a bit wild for me."

"Wild?" his mother asked in alarm.

"Yes, so if you don't mind...I'd like to make my own dates from now on."

"Of course, Dear, whatever you say..." she replied absently heading towards the phone. "How am I going to explain...?"

Stewart left her, mumbling to herself, relieved that she had taken it so well. He wasn't sure if he was up for dating anyone anytime soon...but there was that red-head in Calculus...and she was smart...she wouldn't be so bad...maybe he could...

~**~

"We're still missing the money from the first robbery," Officer Jenkins frowned at the report in his hand.

"Someone else could've pulled that job," his partner suggested.

"But it's the same MO, Sam, and their fingerprints are all over the place..."

"Well, those two aren't talking."

"At least we caught them red-handed at the hardware store."

"What do you think that stupid one meant when he said somebody stole their car? The other guy shut him up real quick."

"I'm guessing they were using a stolen car and probably left it running and then someone else came along and took it while they were inside."

"Poetic justice," Sam chuckled. "Maybe that's where the money is...in the stolen car."

"And nobody got a good look at the vehicle," Officer Jenkins shook his head. "The money is probably long gone by now...spent on cigarettes or alcohol or something."

"At least those two punks aren't getting out any time soon. The judge was pretty hard on them."

"Officer Jenkins?" a young voice interrupted. "This just came for you."

"Thanks, Jimmy," Officer Jenkins smiled kindly at the teenager who worked part time for the department as a gopher.

"Secret admirer...?" Sam suggested humorously.

"Yeah, right, we all know how popular I am."

As Officer Jenkins opened the brown paper wrapped shoebox and lifted the lid, Sam exclaimed "Wow! I wish someone would send me a box of money."

"There's a note in here," Officer Jenkins pulled it out and unfolded it.

" _I read about your collar last week and that some of the money was never recovered. I recently found these bills and I believe it may be connected. To the best of my ability, I have returned all things to their rightful owners and hopefully that will be the end of it._

PS The fingerprints on the money will most likely match the two you already have in custody."

"I wonder who..." Sam began.

"I don't know and I'm not going to delve into it too deeply. We have the criminals behind bars and now we have all of the money. If the fingerprints match...I'll be a happy camper."

The End

We hope you enjoyed our book of short stories and poems. For paranormal romances, check out A. M. Reed and L. M. Reed on most e-book retailers and at Amazon.com for the printed versions.

Also, check out L. M. Reed for Christian fiction, action/adventure, and a touching Christmas short story.

