

1

The Reflector by Joseph Emmanuel © Copyright 2020

This novel is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents are either the product of the author's imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual events, locales, organizations, or persons, living or dead, is entirely coincidental and beyond the intent of either the author or publisher.

Cover Design by Unitrix Resources Nigeria

Published Digitally by Unitrix Resources Nigeria. Website: www.unitrixresources.com.ng Facebook: www.facebook.com/unitrixresources Phone: +234 (0) 70 6724 0506, +234 (0) 80 2304 7602

Contents

DEDICATION

 STORY OF THE YELLOW BEAST.doc%23_Toc31200566)

THE DESTRUCTION OF THE CITY  OF.doc%23_Toc31200567)

CALAMBA AND THE COMING OF  THE.doc%23_Toc31200567)

 REFLECTOR.doc%23_Toc31200567)

 THE FALL OF YELLOW BEAST.doc%23_Toc31200568)

About The Author

DEDICATION

Dedicated to Sister Elfrida Onuora, a woman who had gone through many pains but did not let her pains define who she is. She made her pains bring out the beauty inside of her. Thank you very much for your labour of love for humanity. I really love and celebrate you ma.

1

STORY OF THE YELLOW BEAST

T he sun was shining beautifully, sending its sparkling gem of colours to the green grasses at the countryside of Calamba; a popular city in the western region of Africa. The birds were flying swiftly, sending their beautiful sounds around the old fashioned house which lie at the edge of the city. This house belongs to the Emeka's. In this house lives a little boy known as Musa who is chubby in appearance but with slim legs which seem conjoined to his body.

His head which is round, houses eyeballs that seem fixed to their sockets. He was running down the staircase of his home jumping happily to the garden to play his usual game and his mum- Bisola was upstairs trying to prepare some food when she heard a loud scream coming from the garden. She dropped the knife which she used in chopping vegetables and ran down the staircase only to see her son bleeding from the bite of a deadly insect known as the yellow beast. This insect is silvery in appearance with beautiful wings that it uses to fly. It radiates yellow energy from its body with an antenna that has the ability to feel the environment and release its venom to its victim. Bisola quickly carried him upstairs, trying to stop the bleeding by the use of the First Aid. The blood kept flowing and this made her become sorrowful, sending waves of panic over her. She quickly took her son to her car and zoomed off to the central hospital, located in the middle of the city, in order to save his life.

The nurses who were on duty quickly carried Musa into the hospital, trying to save his life, while Bisola sat outside panicking and lost in thought on how she met Emeka- Musa's father, who was in his early twenties, and average in height with muscular stature. His hair was carved in such a way that it seemed to spread at the edges of his head. He was the love of her life. He

would hold her gently, muttering his love for her and her son, promising to always be there for them no matter what happened. He never lived to fulfil this one desire, due to the cold hands of death, which snatched him from her, when he took his family out for some fun. He met some young men fighting and shouting at each other. He wanted to separate them. Unexpectedly, one of the young men hit him on the spinal cord with a big stick, causing severe damages to it. He began bleeding internally and coughing out blood from his mouth, which eventually led to his death. She ran to him screaming, calling him all the pet names they shared when it finally dawned on her that Emeka was gone forever. The loss of her husband made life bitter and sorrowful for her and her son Musa. As she was thinking and trying to recover from the fear of losing her son, Doctor Akpan walked up to her and said, 'Mrs Bisola, your son has stopped bleeding and is responding well to treatment, you can come and see him'. When she heard this, she quickly walked ahead of him to the ward where Musa was. On entering the ward, she saw him lying down, put on a drip. She began patting him, with tears dripping from her eyes. One of the nurses said to her 'Please madam you have to cheer up, your son will be alright, it's just a matter of time. I believe he was bitten by an insect. We will do

all we can to remove the venom from his body'. On hearing these words, she stopped crying and cheered up, attending to her son's needs in the hospital.

After a few days, Musa felt better and stronger and was discharged from the hospital. He went home with his mum. Musa lived a healthy life for a few years, but one evening, he started coughing and throwing up, his mom was not home at that time. He tried taking some drugs to get better, but his temperature kept rising. Later on, he heard the sound of his mum's car engine moving towards the garage. He tried to pretend that he was strong by putting on a smile and walking down to greet her. On hugging her, he fainted. Bisola was confused at the incident, but she immediately carried him into the car and raced to the hospital because he was her only child and the strength of her joy. She arrived at the hospital with tears dropping from her eyes, calling on the nurses and doctors to come and save her son. The nurses who were on duty quickly ran down to her and carried Musa on a stretcher to the ward. Bisola was panicking while waiting outside to get a report on the condition of her son. After waiting for a long time lost in sobering thought, Doctor Mike who was on duty that day walked up to her and said, 'Mrs Bisola Emeka, I would like to see you in my office, please'. She answered him saying 'Doctor what is

wrong with my son? Is he alright?' The doctor smiled, assuring her that all will be well. They walked gently together to his office. Upon entering the office, the doctor asked her to sit down and then said to her, 'Madam, we have done our possible best to know what is wrong with your son, but it seems it is beyond us. His blood coloration is not like normal human or animal blood; it is yellow in colour. I am confused myself at what is happening because he is the first human I have seen in all my years of practice with such kind of blood'. Bisola who became confused at hearing this said, 'Doctor, what can be done to my son? will he live for me?' The doctor shook his head, smiled and said to her 'Madam don't be scared, he is responding to treatment. We ran a series of tests on him to find out what is wrong with him, but you can go and see him yourself'. She thanked the doctor, stood up and walked out of the office. When she got to the ward, she met Musa breathing perfectly. She was so glad to see her hope alive again.

A series of tests were run on Musa to see what happened to his DNA. They discovered that his body organs were functioning as an advanced insect. The laboratory attendant was shocked at discovering this. He took the report to doctor Mike who examined it gently, nodding his head, thinking and trying to crack open the science and mystery behind this. He decided to write a note, inviting Mrs Bisola Emeka to his office. He sent the message to her through a nurse. On getting the message, she quickly arrived at the doctor's office. She knocked on the door and the reply came; 'Please come in'. When she entered the office, the doctor smiled at her and said, 'Take your seat madam, Your son's laboratory report is a huge mystery. I, as a medical practitioner, have found it difficult to figure out what happened to him. The molecular structure of his blood has been transformed into tiny waves of energy, with colours of yellow light, emitting out of it, but he is still alive and doing well. It means he has something in his body, which an ordinary human does not have, which causes so much amusement to me'. Bisola, who had never heard such words before, looked confused and said to him, 'But doctor, my son is getting better and his health is being restored. I want him to be discharged because all I see you do is put so much fear in my heart, which I don't need. For the fear of a thing is the beginning of sorrowful days. One has to be free from fear, in order to win the battles of life.' The doctor, who was thinking and smiling at the same time, suddenly regained consciousness and said to her 'Madam, you do not understand the risk you are about to take. What I am trying to explain to you is that you give us more time to understand the possibilities of the existence of your son's complex molecular blood structure. This might help us to save him and many others in the world too.' When she heard this, she became furious, stood up from her seat, fixed her gaze on the doctor and said, 'Doctor, my son is not a lab rat. He is a human being. You can't carry out such research on him. I am going to discharge him today.' On saying this, she walked out of the office and headed straight for the unit where bills were paid and discharged her son.

Doctor Mike's mind couldn't rest at the mystery of the science which he found living and working actively in the body chemistry of Musa. He sat in his office, thinking about the economic gains and the breakthrough he would have around the world if he were able to get the working principle of this science. He picked up Musa's file and took the latter's home address and headed home as soon as he was done for the day. Immediately he got home, he rushed to the mini-laboratory which he had built inside his house. Using his computer keyboard, he typed 'blood colour and their structure'. The computer system started searching for the information, and after a while, the results were displayed on the screen, showing different animals and insects that exist. He discovered that all animals have the red coloration of blood due to the presence of iron in their blood cells. He also discovered that insects were totally different. They do not have the red coloration of blood, due to the absence of iron in their body. Their body secretes a fluid that is of different types of colour. He clicked on it with his mouse and discovered that the yellow beast has the same bonding energy and the same structural molecular DNA as that of Musa. He became shocked at his findings and continued to research more on the yellow beast, studying the working principles of its body. He worked for a long time, trying to solve the puzzle.

Musa arrived home with his mum. She tried to get him to rest, but his head was banging because there was a fusion in the centre of intelligence of his body with his environment. His mum said to him 'My sweetheart, I believe in you and I know you will live long and will survive this.' He nodded his head and said to her 'Mum, it's going to be alright. What did the doctor say is wrong with me?' She smiled and said, 'The doctor said you are a very strong and unique breed of a human.' 'Wow', he exclaimed, 'meaning I am special mom?' 'Yes honey', she answered. She started singing a beautiful song of love and affection to him until he dozed off.

Dr Mike woke up in the middle of the night, thinking and trying to figure out what to do about the discovery. He took a walk to the balcony of his house and paced up and down, thinking of what to do. The desire to become known and popular overwhelmed him and brought out the devil in him. This made him unable to discern right and wrong. He came up with a devilish plan; to take his mini-laboratory outside the city and into the forest, then kidnap Musa in order to run a test on him, which will enable him to discover the structural DNA that makes up his cells. This will enable him to get answers to his questions. He smiled to himself. Feeling satisfied with his decision, he walked back to his bedroom to catch some sleep.

Musa became healthy and soon realised that he could feel vibrations with his eyes, and anytime he went around electrical materials, energy would begin to flow from him into those substances. He could direct the energy by focusing his mind on the substance. He also had the ability to fly in the air, due to the ability of the yellow beast to fly with its wings, for its wings derive their energy from the yellowish substance in its body. Musa's brain began to resonate at the same frequency with his breathing system. This sometimes made his heart stop beating, but he would restart it with the energy flowing in his body.

Dr Mike drove down one sunny Monday afternoon to Musa's home and observed that his mum does not stay at home during the day. He sat in his car and observed the security conditions of the environment before executing his plans. He discovered that there were no security cameras around and every house in the environment was built separately, making everyone mind their business. He left for his office after taking note of all the information needed. The following day he drove down to Musa's home, parked his car outside the house and knocked on the door. Musa thought it was one of his friends. He sluggishly opened the door and saw Doctor Mike standing outside and smiling at him. He became so excited about seeing him and said to him 'Doctor, thank you for coming to my house, please come inside. A lot of strange things have been happening to me ever since I left the hospital'. Doctor Mike smiled and said to him, 'My boy, I am so glad that you are alright'. They walked into the house chatting as they went. After some time, he said to Musa 'I want us to go to the forest outside the city, I want to show you my laboratory and some of the researches I have conducted.' Musa became uncomfortable and started scratching his head, then he said to him, 'It would really be an honour to go with you, but let me call my mummy to seek her permission.' Fixing his gaze on him, he replied, 'There is no need to call your mum, we are not going that far and you won't stay there for long. In just two hours, you will be back home. You do not need to call mummy for a little thing like this. You are a man, a defender of the family and a protector to your mum. So come on boy and let's take a stroll out of town'. When Musa heard this, he went into deep thought and then said in a stammering voice, 'No problem doctor, I will go with you.' They left in his car and soon arrived at the laboratory. They both began to chat happily, pointing out one equipment and the other as he showed Musa around. Then Musa said to him 'I normally sense vibrations and waves passing through the soil and air as I fly sometimes. He lifted his hands up and was suspended in the air and his eyes became yellowish. Some materials in the laboratory that could contact electricity began to conduct and charge from the energy streaming out of his body as he focused his heart on them. Seeing this, Doctor Mike was amazed and said to him 'That is enough for now. Come and stand in this suit machine, which is fixed to the centrifugal and other machines. Let me measure the waves of energy in your body.' He entered into the suit and Doctor Mike pressed a remote button and trapped him inside the suit. He waited in the suit for some time, but when he discovered it was taking too long, he asked, 'Can I come out of the suit?' Doctor Mike burst out laughing and said, 'I have trapped you in my laboratory. Even if you die here, nobody will come to save you. I can now run my experiment on you and become a global renowned doctor who the whole world will listen to. You and your foolish mum will rot in hell.' These words made him so angry that his eyes began to glow with yellow light. He began channeling his energy to break down the suit. There was a hollow tube connected to the suit, which trapped the energy he released, discharging it to the water bodies in the forest. Doctor Mike laughed at him, closed the door of the laboratory and went back to the city.

Bisola returned home and knocked on the door, but there was no one at home to open the door for her. After some attempts at screaming her son's name, she used her spare key to open the door. Walking in, she ran up to her son's room to check if his health had failed him. She didn't see him in his room. She searched all round the house, checking every room, trying to figure out where her son could be, all to no avail. She called the police to inform them about her missing son. The police quickly sent some officers to search for Musa. They searched all round the city, trying to figure out his whereabouts. After many unfruitful attempts, they gave up the search. One of the officers known as Alex Osapolor, who's average in height, with a slender body structure, a flat face and cheeks that seem swollen as if air was blown into them went to Bisola's house to report the result of the investigation to her. He knocked on the door and she opened sluggishly with different thoughts roaming through her mind. She greeted him and led him to the sitting room. When he was seated, she asked if she could offer him some tea. He replied with a voice that sounded in a rattling fashion, 'No need for that madam.' Sitting up in his chair, he said, 'Ma, your son's whereabouts cannot be ascertained. We have searched every nook and cranny of this city, we took the picture you sent to us around and the people we asked said that they do not have any clue as to his whereabouts.' When she heard this, her blood pressure increased and her heart began to beat so fast that it was unable to regulate the other body organs. She collapsed on the ground, muttering the words, 'My son is my only hope and he is lost from me'. When he saw this, he quickly called the emergency unit and an ambulance was sent to carry her to the hospital. She was rushed to the ward and oxygen was being fixed on her.

Back in the forest, Musa became highly infuriated and this made more energy to flow from him. With his light, he tried to use the energy trapped in his blood to open and disfigure the suit which he was being caged in. He tried increasing the energy flowing from his body, but all to no avail, it could not distort the suit. Doctor Mike would usually go at night to work and carry out his research, jotting them down in a note pad. He discovered that the venom of the yellow beast had spent a long time in his body combining with the nucleic strand of chromosome in his DNA, changing the functioning power of his body organs. If he intended to reproduce such activity, he must be able to reproduce the same kind of structural chromosome. In the suit was a thin tube that Dr Mike used to draw Musa's blood and supply it to the outside of the cage through a vacuum hole. This he would collect and spin at high speed with a centrifugal machine, trying to study the different layers of his blood component. He took his plasma, trying to see its reaction with some of the energy he collected from Musa. The plasma shrank and broke into tiny pieces which condensed into air vapour. He was so surprised at the chemical reaction that he took some specimen of the plasma, trying to observe it with the use of natural light. The plasma began to react by producing yellow flames. Musa began to scream from the pains inflicted on him by the suit. And in his pains, he told him, 'Doctor Mike, If I come out of this suit, I will end your life in a speck of a second.' When Dr Mike heard this, he laughed and said to him, 'Your mum is in the hospital, very soon, she will be dead and you too will follow suit.' These words made Musa even angrier, making all the energy in his body to flow at a higher range. Doctor Mike laughed harder and continued his research.

Bisola began to jerk on her hospital bed. The nurses and doctors tried hard to save her life. They tried all they could, but she ended up dying. They took her body to the mortuary to prepare it for burial.

Musa was still releasing his energy. He filled the hollow tube with it to be able to crack it when it reached its elastic limit in order to break open the suit. The energy started to stream forth around the hollow tube which was discharging his energy to the water bodies. The energy of his light began to form solid particles which blocked the tube, channeling the energy to flow around the suit, producing a huge bang which cracked open the suit. Seeing this, Doctor Mike became scared and started pleading for mercy. Musa laughed out loud, saying to him, 'Your days on earth have been numbered. I will kill you for making me suffer.' He released the energy from his blood and focused it on Doctor Mike. The energy moved in a waveform, releasing a sound. This made his heart beat at a very fast rate. He struggled to breathe as it cracked his heart. Musa discovered that the energy flowing from his body gave him strength, making him move as he released the wave vibrations of his body with the resonance of the ground. He took Doctor Mike's body and dumped it on the main road leading to the city. He flew back home quickly, using his wave vibration.

On arrival, he met uncle Tim and his aunt sitting and discussing how to go about the burial of his mum. When they saw him coming down from the stairs, they were shocked. They began to question him, asking where he had been. He gave no answer and this made them very angry. Uncle Tim, out of anger, cleared his throat and said to him, 'If you refuse to tell us your whereabouts, we won't force you, but know that your mum is dead. There is no one who will take you in as family except us, as written in your parent's will. So I'm advising you to open up to us.' On hearing this, tears streamed down his cheeks and soaked his face. He looked at both of them, one after the other and without saying a word, he walked away. He used his energy power to leave the house. After some time, his aunt made a decision to take him. They called his name, he was nowhere to be found. They searched all round the house but could not find him. They called the police and reported the incident to them. The police officer who answered their call was confused because it sounded weird to him. He told Uncle Tim who was on the call with him, 'I don't believe you all saw Musa, I believe it was an illusion. We are still trying to know his whereabouts and when we do so, we will notify you.' He hung up the call. This incident brought fear and anxiety to both of them.

Uncle Tim and other members of the family took Bisola's body for burial. It was a sad moment for the family. Everyone was keeping a watchful eye to see if Musa would eventually show up at the burial, but he never showed up. He went back to Doctor Mike's laboratory to continue with the research. Holding a test tube that contained his blood sample, he remembered all that befell him. He muttered to himself, 'I have superpowers, now the whole city will pay for making me suffer and for making me lose my family.' Musa was working on different potentials that can be achieved by the different colorations of blood. He discovered that the red blood is the natural blood. It doesn't make one become a superhuman, it allows the human function as a normal human being. He discovered the green blood has superpowers, it has a very great potential in a nuclear reaction, it has the ability to fly and disappear at the frequency of wave vibrations and can be used as a healing therapy. He discovered that it moves on the frequency of sound which the body can produce by little exercise. He decided to experiment this by kidnaping a fourteen-year-old boy from the city whose name was Efe; dark in complexion and leaped as he walked. He was playing outside his home when Musa vibrated his yellow wave at the frequency of the yellow light, covering his face with the light and absorbing the screams of his victim. He captured him and dumped him in the forest. Efe was lost in the forest, trying to figure out his way while Musa kept a watchful eye on him. A lion came along his path trying to hunt him down. He began to shiver as the lion approached him roaring. When Efe noticed no one was coming to save him, he banished fear from his heart and tried to stand his ground. All of a sudden Musa arrived. Releasing the wave energy of his body and focusing the energy which streams from his blood system, jolting the Lion. Due to the intensity of the light which was released to it, the lion roared in pain and eventually died. He turned to Efe and said to him, 'What brought you to this forest?' Efe began to stammer, and then answered, 'I was taken from my home in a strap of light.' He looked at him with concern and asked him 'Do you know who did that to you?'. He began to think, trying to figure out an answer to Musa's question, he opened his mouth gently and said, 'No'. On hearing this, Musa said to him 'I have lived in this forest for the most part of my life. All the people in the city are wicked and evil. They don't care about anyone but themselves'. On hearing this, Efe replied 'My daddy loves me.' Musa smiled to himself and said, with his eyeball dancing around, 'What if your dad never comes to get you from this dangerous forest, what will you do?' Efe was confused and answered him 'If he doesn't come, I don't know what to do with my life.' To this, Musa nodded his head and said to him, 'You can come and stay with me and I will turn you to a superhuman with great abilities.' Efe was happy when he heard this. He held Musa's hand and they leaped together to the laboratory.

Efe's step mum was relaxing in the bedroom. Then, she stood up and decided to prepare dinner for the family. She called his name. He would usually answer within a second to assist her with the cooking, but today was different. She kept calling his name, but no answer was coming forth. She went downstairs to check on him and discovered that he was missing. She got angry and went to his friend's house to check if he was there, but she couldn't find him. She decided to go back home, saying in her heart with great patience, 'He will surely come back to me.' Musa and Efe got to the laboratory and Musa started showing him around, warning him never to tell anyone about him and the laboratory. He said to him, 'If you know you are not interested, speak up now, for you will do nothing outside my will.' Efe was confused, he looked at him, trying to understand and grasp all that Musa was saying. After giving it some thought, he agreed to it and said 'I will do your will and be a law-abiding fellow. This I promise to do as long as I live.' On hearing this, he asked him to lie down on the bed prepared for the operation. He took a syringe that contained the green venom that transforms one into a superhuman and injected him with it. Efe began to shake and vibrate because the green substance was changing his blood to green and his body began to dance, producing different sounds and vibrations. His leg immediately grew to become normal, this ended his days of leaping. Efe slept for hours without waking up, Musa was happy on seeing this. He continued to work on the black coloration of his blood which has the capacity to produce dark wave vibrations. The black blood disrupts the molecular composition, producing dark fluids, which sends its secretion to the haemoglobin, causing a chain of reaction in the heart, which produces a dark spot. This dark spot is the 'powerhouse' of anyone who possesses the black blood. Such has the ability to release darkness from the eye, taking away the electrical potential from any substance it comes in contact with. Musa was happy with his achievement so far. As he was carrying out the experiment, Efe woke up to discover that he was no longer leaping, his eyes could see very far and distant objects. As he vibrated his body and released sound waves, energy flowed from him and he was filled with joy at this. He decided to return home, promising Musa to always come back. Efe went back home using his new-found abilities. He arrived home. Walking inside the house, he met his step-mum angrily waiting for him with a cane. She asked him, 'Where did you go?' Efe looked at her as if he was hearing a ghost. He said to her 'Mum, I was at my friend's place.' This answer vexed her so much that she began to say nasty things to him, 'Is it because I am not your biological mum? Your father and I couldn't have a child. Your father went to have a child with a foolish lady who never had self-control and you this idiot were brought forth. I have been patient with you. I was happy that you were leaping, but now you are walking fine. How did it happen? I knew you were lying all this while'. After saying this, she took her cane to flog him and discovered that she was beating the empty air because Efe had used his vibration to appear at her back. He said to her, 'He is right, the people of this city are evil. I am returning to where I came from.' She turned to beat him but he vibrated his body releasing some green light that choked her until she fainted. He returned to the laboratory and narrated his ordeal to Musa. Musa smiled and said to him, 'I told you that people of the city are greedy and self-centered. Stay with me, someday we will rule the city and your step mum will be dealt with.'

Efe's dad returned from work and parked his car at the garage. He brought some gifts for Efe as he had promised in the morning. He walked upstairs but everything seemed odd. He had an odd feeling that something had changed for Efe usually came down to take his briefcase. He met his wife crying and wailing. He was surprised because it had been a long time since he had ever seen her in that state. He ran to her and asked, 'sweetheart, what is wrong?' She answered, 'Efe ran away because I was trying to correct his bad behaviour.' It was like a heavy drop of water fell on his chest as he heard these words. He replied 'Where is he now?' She seemed lost in her pains, trying to gain composure with great attention, looking like one who had been beaten from a long work. Finally, she answered 'I can't tell'. He picked up his phone and called the police, informing them about his missing son.

Efe's dad was not happy at what happened. He comforted his wife and cheered her up, but his heart didn't trust her.

Musa said to Efe one cool evening, 'I need someone who will be able to carry the superpower of the black blood. I want you to play a role in helping me find someone who is willing to take this ability. For if we are many, it will be difficult for us to be defeated, but when we are few, it is going to be dangerous for us all.' Efe nodded his head. Then he remembered the little girl called Osato whom he normally played with. A light-complexioned girl with a round face and smile that's as beautiful as the sun. She lives with an aunt who never intends to sponsor her education but always makes her go through child labour. Osato would work all day with little or no rest. She would confide in Efe, telling him about the pains and maltreatment she goes through in the hands of her aunt. He quickly cut in 'I have someone who can do the job, but how to convince her to come with me to this place is the problem. Musa smiled and said to him 'Let's go and get her.' I will capture her and put her in the little island in the forest, you will use your superpowers to save her and bring her back to me. They agreed on this and set out together for the mission. Musa sent out some vibrations from his body, causing the motions of his body to quickly move at a speed that could clear anyone on its path. He saw Osato from a distance, then covered her face with the yellow light and captured her. He returned to the forest and dropped her on the little island. She tried to run away by entering the water, but she couldn't swim. Efe released his sound waves quickly, entered into the water, captured her and took her to a safe haven. She was shivering from the cold, so he used the green light vibration to make her warm. When she regained consciousness, she turned and saw Efe smiling at her. She was confused and said to him 'how did you do that?' He took a deep breath, laughing harder, then he held her hands and said 'My master Musa helped me and has changed my life, I am now a superhuman.' She looked at his legs and noticed a transformation. She said to him with desire 'I want such powers too so that I won't suffer anymore. The city has been unfair to me due to the loss of my parents. He patted her on the back, assuring her that all would be well in due time. He held her hand and released his green light wave vibrations, they flew until they arrived at the laboratory. Musa who was waiting for them, on seeing her, said 'welcome Osato, I have been expecting you.' She greeted him with so much fear and anxiety, Musa then smiled and said to himself, 'Her fear will be the greatest weapon to use, Efe chose right'.

He said to her 'I will make you powerful and great, but you must swear that you will be loyal to me. I will make you rule the city of Calamba.' She became more anxious on hearing this and her mind raced back to moments when her aunt used to tell her that she is nothing and nothing good would ever come out of her, how she had stayed hungry for days, she replied without thinking 'I accept your offer master Musa.' He smiled, shook his head and asked her to lie down as he injected her with the black venom. In a few minutes' time, she began to jerk up and down as the chemical was transforming her blood to black, creating a black spot in her heart and also changing her. She fell asleep for a long time.

Osato's aunt was glad that she never returned, she went about doing her normal daily job, not even bothering to call the police or inform anyone about it, she hated Osato because the company which her sister had was willed to her. It was under a committee set up to manage it, until she is of age and is able to manage the company. Meanwhile, Efe's dad became bothered about his son. He said to his wife 'my son is supposed to have returned by now, the police can't get any substantial information concerning him. I'm beginning to doubt you, you must have said something mischievous to him that made him leave the house.'

She answered him, 'I don't know what you are talking about, but one thing I know is that you are just as mischievous as your son, he insulted me and you never bothered about what he did to me, but you are so concerned about finding him so that you will have an heir to your hard labour.' These words vexed him, he picked up his phone and called the police, asking them to invite his wife for questioning, because it seemed she knows something about the whereabouts of his son. The policeman drove in a hurry to the house with the police van. He knocked at the door and was welcomed into the house. The policeman said to her 'I am here to invite you to the police station because according to the report of your husband, you have information about the whereabouts of Efe.' She followed him and they drove up to the police station, while Efe's father looked on.

After some time, Osato woke up and discovered she could feel streams of energy flowing through her body. As she was looking at the electrical materials in the mini-laboratory, they were all transformed into insulators. She smiled at herself, saying to Musa and Efe 'I want to go back to the city to punish my aunt for her mischievous deeds to me.' Musa said to her, 'My dear, you can't do that for now until we are complete, then we will all go down and take the city for ourselves.

You have to learn how to use your powers first, for if you don't master it, we can't do anything. For now, we must find one more person to join us, to take on the last superpower which is the blue wave. You two should cooperate in finding the last person while I will be waiting for you both.' They said to him in chorus 'Yes master, we will find the person and bring him or her to you .'

Arriving at the police station, Efe's step mum was taken in by the policeman who interviewed her. He asked her, 'Efe was under your care before he got missing, can you tell me what happened?' She began to stammer and in a quaking voice, she answered 'I was sleeping in my bedroom, when I got up to prepare some food for my family, I discovered he was gone, I went to his friend's house to check if he went there to play, but he was not there. I waited for him and then later, he appeared from nowhere, insulted me and disappeared again.' The policeman whose eyes were fixed on her said 'Madam I don't believe you, but we have no evidence to prove that you are guilty.' The policeman appreciated her, asking her to go home as more investigations would be carried out.

Efe and Osato began to practise the use of their energy. Efe released light, sending waves of vibration to the atmosphere, releasing currents with a greenish appearance. This current was causing photosynthesis to occur in plants, he kept increasing it until he noticed the ground began to produce waves of green spots which transformed into energy, shooting into the air and causing an explosion. It ignited the flame, burning the green grass. He noticed as he shook his body that his organs began to rejuvenate. Osato opened her eyes, causing dark light to flow from it due to the dark spot in her heart. This made the atmosphere become so toxic that when it reacted with animals, they began to choke and die. She released more waves, causing the light of the sun not to shine in that environment. Her breath was absorbing and removing electrical ability from nature, taking all the electrical energy and placing them before her. She could control these waves of energy and bend them to travel miles, causing mass destruction without going there herself. She could produce thick darkness that had a sweet smell. This darkness was known as the healing spot. After practising for a while, Osato said to Efe 'Can you remember Enebong, the young blind girl, who normally sits outside in the cold, in the city street?' He answered with concern, 'Yes I do, what do you think about her?' She smiled saying 'she is a tall and fair young lady, with beautiful cheeks. She walks like one of the royal guards of the Roman Empire, I believe she will join us.' He asked, 'what plan do you intend to use to capture her?' She smiled and answered 'I will choke her with the darkness in my eye, then I will need you to use the green light to vibrate her, so she can wake up.' Wow, he exclaimed 'This plan is so good, let's go and carry it out.' She vibrated her body, moving to the city street of Bendel where Enebong normally sits. She released her darkness, capturing her in it and transporting her to the forest. Getting there, she began to vibrate her heart. Efe screamed out with a loud voice from a distance, saying Go away you murderer and let my friend live.' Hearing this, she quickly fled. Efe released his green healing light, streaming from his blood and she regained consciousness from the darkness which Osato released which made her faint. When she woke up, he went close to her and said, 'My name is Efe, I saved your life.' On hearing this, tears streamed forth from her eyes and she said to him 'You would have to let me die, life has been unfair to me. I was abandoned and poisoned and was about to go and rest from these sufferings but you stopped it.' Efe who was listening to her said to her, 'I too was hated by my step-mum but I never let that get over me to the point of loving death. Life is so beautiful and without it, one ceases to be relevant on earth. No matter what we go through, it is not to destroy us but to make us a better version of ourselves. My friend, death is never an option.' She was listening with rapt attention, then she asked, 'Then why must one keep living?' He smiled, moving his mouth, trying to think of what to say in a low tone. 'I met a man who changed my life, he gave me superhuman abilities, we call him master Musa. I believe if you met him, he would help you. When Enebong heard this, she screamed out with all excitement, saying, 'Take me to him, I want to be a superhuman too so that I will be stronger than what I am now.' He carried her and vibrated his body, releasing sound and disappeared to the laboratory. He met Osato and Musa waiting for him. When they arrived, Master Musa said to her 'Welcome Enebong, I am glad you are here.' She asked, 'Are you Master Musa?' He smiled, tapping his left toe on the ground and said 'I am Musa.' She quickly chipped in saying 'Please, I want to be superhuman, I will obey all you ask me to do.' He answered her, 'The blue blood venom is one of the most powerful venoms, it works by the principle of air. When you allow your body to flow with the air, you will begin to generate charges and waves of energy will stream forth from your body. You will be able to move at the speed of air, you will be able to enter places without being seen, the same way those who have the red blood can't see air. They only feel it blowing and know if it is cool or hot.' She exclaimed, 'Wow, I'm interested in it.' He asked her to lie down on the bed and then injected her with the blue venom. After some minutes, she began jerking, the blue venom transformed her blood colour to blue, destroying the poisonous cells in her body and transforming her blood. Her eyes were opened, she noticed she could feel the sound of the air. She opened her eyes and saw Musa and Efe. She wanted to stand up and hug them, but could not because the venom was still working in her blood.

Master Musa said to them, 'We will soon strike the city of Calamba, but you will identify yourselves. Efe will be known as the green wave, Osato will be known as the black wave and Enebong will be known as the blue wave. I will be known as the yellow beast.' He said to them, 'Take these clothes and use them as a disguise when going into the city.' He gave them green, yellow, and blue clothes, forged from the chemical reactions of their blood and wave vibrations.

2

THE DESTRUCTION OF THE CITY OF CALAMBA AND THE COMING OF THE REFLECTOR

G reen Wave, Black Wave and Blue Wave were practising how to use their energy in the forest when yellow beast walked up to them, with the power

of the yellow energy streaming from him. He said to them, 'It is time we paid a visit to the citizens of Calamba city for we have been hiding here for long. They all answered him in a chorus, 'Yes master, but what shall we do?' He smiled and said, 'The water

supply in the city should be infected with a disease which will reduce the pump pressure of their heart. I have devised the gamma poison beam. It would not affect us because we have blood which is neutral to its effect. If it gets into us, it produces energy in us, causing our powers to grow.' 'Wow', they exclaimed. 'When shall we go to carry out this assignment?' He smiled and said 'Blue wave, you have to use your power and the energy in your body to vibrate green wave and black wave to be invisible.' She answered, 'No, I can't do that master'. He answered 'You can do so, all you need to do is vibrate your energy using the current in the air.' He asked Green Wave and Black Wave to stand before Blue Wave. She was quietly feeling the air. As she felt the air, her body began to glow out blue colour of light due to the energy she was generating with her vibrations. The energy immediately became so large that Black Wave and Green Wave were glowing their different colours of light until they became invisible with her. Seeing this, he lightened up his face using the light energy to communicate with them, saying 'this is enough for now, all of you must work together as one for you to be an unbeatable team. Without oneness, you won't be able to achieve your plans and dreams. A house divided against itself cannot stand.' After saying this, Blue Wave stopped her vibration and everything returned back to normal. He gave them the chemical and the map of the water supply staton. As they read it, they felt the location of the water supply through the energy flowing in their body. They started releasing vibrations together until their sound became one. They vanished into the air and Blue Wave made them invisible. They arrived at the water supply station and discovered that the place was heavily guarded with security cameras that were connected to the water supply resources office of the city. Black Wave released her dark energy and it misconfigured the satellite connections of the cameras breaking its linkage with the water resources office. They quickly went to the pipe that supplies the whole city and fused the poison into it. When they were done with that, they discovered that the place was also guarded by a robot. They decided to destabilise the robot releasing energy individually, but they couldn't break the chemical composition that was used to build the robot. Meanwhile, in the water resource office, the man in charge of the security apparatus of the water supply was surprised to discover that they lost connection with the water supply channel. He raised an alarm to the security personnel to quickly draft information from the robot who was in charge of the place. Black Wave, Green Wave and Blue Wave discovered they couldn't do it individually, they decided to unite their energy force together. Blue Wave released her energy and they became invisible, their energies combined together and they channeled it to the memory chip of the robot. They released vibrations that penetrated the clothing foil that was used to build the robot and then destablised it. Immediately they were done, they left the water supply station through the window, penetrating the glass without breaking it.

The water resource security personnel tried to connect to the robot but failed. He and his team decided to go to the station with engineers to fix the place. They drove in the official cars of the water resources ministry given to them by the government of the city. They arrived at the place and saw that the satellite had stopped functioning and replaced it with a new one. The memory chip of the robot was badly damaged by the waves released, they couldn't do anything to fix it so as to get the information they needed. They had to fix in a new memory chip. After fixing everything, they decided to employ humans to serve as security guards to the place, alongside the robot. The gamma beam poison began to react with the lead pipe, producing radiation in the water which caused damage to the metallic part of the robot and the humans employed to watch over the water supply. They all began to fall sick one after the other. The entire city became filled with people with infected blood vessels. This became a serious health hazard to all who lived in the city. The government organised a team of medical practitioners to detect what was wrong and to discover its source. They conducted a research and discovered that the disease was due to water poison. They went to the water supply to carry out further investigation and found out that the water was poisoned. They took this report to the government, advising that another water supply should be quickly built for the city.

Yellow Beast was watching everything that went on in the city. He built a satellite which has the potential to trap all information of the city using the air. He discovered that sound travels through air and when he connected the satellite, he put a photographic screen which captures pictures. The satellite works by releasing its light electrons from the plate, allowing it to travel at the speed of light, forming a dense polarity with the air on top of a building or structure, capturing the events in a video format and sending all information concerning that particular region to him. With this, he could know everything that was going on in the city. He decided to destablise and frustrate the government by hacking into her account and discovering her new project. He asked Black Wave to go to the river bank where the government decided to build the new water supply and release the poisonous black energy so that anyone who came around that environment will choke to death because their blood is normal blood and does not have the immunity to overcome the environmental condition. Black Wave vibrated the dark spot in her heart and travelled to the river bank. She released the black energy, making the environment uncomfortable for the engineers who were working at the new water site. After doing that, she returned to the forest. The engineers and workers who came to build the water station were surprised and confused at the darkness in the region, they tried to understand what went wrong but could not. As they prepared to start working, they inhaled the toxic waves produced from the dark cloud. This energy reacted with their lungs, causing them to suffocate. They began to die one after the other. The government agency who was sent to supervise the work later in the day came to that environment and met the engineers and workers dead. She quickly left the river to the government house to report the incidence. This was a surprising and shocking moment for the president and the people of the city. It was announced over the radio and in different newspapers. People began to come out to the streets to protest against the government. The president had to resign from his position because the situation was beyond him.

Yellow Beast was happy with himself. He called Blue Wave, Green Wave and Black Wave and gave them the report. They were so glad and decided to pay a visit to the city to show their power. Yellow Beast was happy with this and gave them his apporval. They vibrated their energy to the centre of the city where they generated their different shades of waves. This was very dangerous to the citizens. The citizens were surprised to see blue, green and black colours of light energy flowing round the city, electrocuting and killing people in their sleep, and infecting others with various kinds of diseases. The news agency and medical experts were confused at this happening. The new president too was confused. He said in the news media that he would love to meet with the individuals who possess such ability and that no harm will be done to them if they agree to show up. That instead of using their powers to destroy the city, they will be assisted by the government and made to see that using it to help the city is the best thing they can do for the city. Yellow Beast who was watching this on the news smiled to himself and decided to come up with a plan. He vibrated his body at night and appeared at the president's bedroom. He introduced himself saying 'Mr President, I am Yellow Beast, leader of the Green Wave, Blue Wave and Black Wave. I watched you on the news today and I realised you desire to see me and my fellows.' When the president heard this, he called in the security guards, asking them to come and capture him. He released his energy vibration and it caused their heart to beat beyond the normal rate and this led to their death. He turned to the president and said 'Be warned!!! You cannot arrest me and my group. If you try that, you will be numbered among the dead. You better agree with my deal, or watch your city suffer.' The president who was already shaking answered 'I will do as you say.' They discussed for a while after which he vibrated his body with the speed of the yellow energy in his blood back to the laboratory in the forest.

The president called for a meeting with all stakeholders and ministers. It was structured to discuss the political situation of the city of Calamba. It was a meeting that was dominated by arguments and complaints against the lack of development in the military system of the city. As they were discussing, Yellow Beast led his fellows and appeared in the meeting. One of the ministers who was a chubby man with a big stomach that moved as he spoke, said 'Who are these little idiots and what do they want here?' Then turning to them he said, 'Don't you know that this is an important meeting for the welfare of the city?' Yellow Beast became angry and said to him 'You call us little idiots but you are a big fool and a minister of the office of foolishness. My boy the president, I am here to speak to you and the people of this city, I need the press to be here so that what I'm about to say may be duly recorded.' The president quickly ordered the pressmen to come and interview him and his fellows. He spoke with a calm voice 'People of Calamba, I have come to punish the sinners and those who offended me and my group in this city. I am Yellow Beast and I do not take nonsense. I can take away your electrical supply and everything you have all in a second. To show you how strong I am, I have stopped your water. I want to inform you all that the government of this city is dissolved by me from now henceforth.' He and his fellows drove the leaders of the city away from the government house and assumed authority over the city.

One of the citizens of Calamba known as Mr Eze Hassan; a lanky short man with big eyeballs and voice that echoes miles away as he spoke was displeased at the happenings in the city and decided to stage a protest against the yellow beast. He gathered the youths of the city and invited important dignitaries to the protest against the government. Many of them rejected the invitation, he then decided to protest with the few who were with him. They walked to the government house with placards, challenging the yellow beast to step down. Yellow Beast was seated inside the presidential office in the government house, watching the protest. He laughed to himself and said to his fellows 'That fool will die tonight.' Green Wave asked him 'should I go and scatter the protest?' He answered him saying 'No, you don't need to do that now because of the people. We will do that tonight.' During the protest, Yellow Beast decided to go and address the people protesting. He said to them 'I have heard your complaints and pains, I will do a quick clean up of the city and hand over the government to somebody else soon. All I want from you all is patience, it is not easy to find someone who will be nice and have a heart for the people like I do. All I am doing is to overthrow the wicked government of this city.' The crowd who came out to protest was cheering him up saying 'We believe you Yellow Beast to keep your word.' He smiled, raising his hands up and asking everyone to go home, promising to fix everything soon.

In the middle of the night, Yellow Beast picked up his fellows vibrated their bodies and arrived at Mr Eze's home. They passed through the door without opening it, woke every member of the family and made them all lie down on the ground. Yellow Beast then said 'You are a fool Mr Eze, your president saw my powers and decided to hand over the city to me. But a little church rat like you woke up one morning and gathered the people to protest against me and my fellows. I want you to know this, the people of Calamba do not have a voice and so will it be forever'. He and his fellows released the energy of the vibration of their bodies and killed every one of them. They left for the government house and the following day, this incidence became a major news headline on the television stations and newspapers. Everyone was afraid to mention who was responsible for the killings. Yellow Beast even gave a speech concerning Mr Eze, promising that he will fish out all those who killed him and his family. From that day henceforth, no one ever came out openly to protest against Yellow Beast or to even talk about him.

In the city was a young man named Okorie, who's dark in complexion and has a white set of teeth, his feet moved gently as he walked. He was aware of the present situation in the city of Calamba. He is very knowledgeable in chemistry, physics and biotechnology. He wanted to know the cause of the happenings in the city. And as he lost his parents and siblings to the calamity. He decided to pay attention to every detail of the situation. He was working on a research in physics in his private laboratory and came across a research work carried out by Sir Isaac Newton. Sir Isaac Newton stated that all colours are the product of white light. From his popular white light prism experiment, he noticed that yellow beast, green wave, blue wave and black wave all produce wave energy of different colours just as their names imply. He discovered that white light is the pure source of all created things. Every living thing on earth contains a certain amount of white light energy. He found out that during the building up of life, white light sprung up in all matters, dividing itself into its different colours, releasing the colour of light the matter needed for its survival. He decided to carry out an experiment secretly by building up a high voltage of ultra-multiple waves of white light. He discovered that the light was breaking into different colours of light and it went into the material substance he placed around it. The material substance absorbed the light, producing high quality and potential of life. He used this experiment to build a machine with which he carried out the experiment, using himself as the material substance. The light streamed out, reacted with his blood and spun it at a high speed. This caused his DNA to be transformed, he noticed the reaction was slow, but it continued until his whole body was no longer sustained by blood but was now sustained by white light. The blood molecule vibrated to become light in a high radiative index. He discovered he could feel vibrations and reflect his own vibration, distorting other vibrations. He could be invisible by combining with matter. This ability made him not to be seen. He had all the combinations of the superpowers of the yellow beast, green wave, blue wave and black wave. He could move at the speed of light, separating himself into different wavelengths of light, due to the combination of colours. His organs which couldn't rejuvenate began to rejuvenate due to the presence of light in him. He decided to keep it a secret, not letting anyone know about it.

One evening, Okorie was walking around the street and saw a little boy gasping for air in the midst of a black light generated by the black wave. He began thinking of what to do, then he decided to reflect light from his body and different colours of light began to emit from his body. The black light which was contained in his white light, combined with the poisonous black light from the black wave, swallowing and cleaning up its venom. He picked up the little boy who was already dying and made the boy vibrate with the light streaming forth from him. He then disappeared from his sight using the principle of the spreading nature of light when he noticed the boy was saved. The pains of the people were sounding in his ears because the light in his body was combining with the air, trapping the sounds of the people in his ears. He knew it would be dangerous if the yellow beast got to know about him because they would search for him and try to take his life. He decided to be on a low key and avoid the happenings around the city of Calamba.

Yellow Beast was tired of many of the people in the city. He was angry because he felt they were not civilized and couldn't pay their taxes due to the poor economic condition of the city. He decided that all offenders would be punished by death through the black poisonous light. He asked Black Wave to instruct the police to arrest offenders and bring them to the open country so that they would serve as an example to other citizens of the city, claiming it to be an act of discipline. His fellows who were drunk with power never questioned Yellow Beast about his actions. Black Wave instructed the police division of the city to arrest the offenders. All offenders were arrested and gathered together to be killed at the open countryside and it was to be broadcast on all media platforms. Okorie who was watching the news was moved with compassion, he decided to produce a disguise dress, which was produced from white light. The dress could reflect the energy which he reflects from himself. He quickly dressed up and moved with the energy of light flowing through his body. He met Black Wave releasing her black poisonous light, he vibrated his different reflections of light, challenging her. This action was being displayed on various news media. She decided to fight back by releasing her energy in all its variation, Okorie reflected his light, capturing and absorbing her energy waves and channeling it back to her. This action disfigured her and she fainted. The pressmen ran towards him to interview him, asking him who he was and he said to them 'I am the reflector, one with the different shades of light.' After saying this, he zoomed off.

Yellow Beast who was watching what was happening from the presidential villa became angry and said to Green wave 'Go and help Black wave before the citizens of the city kill her'. He immediately vibrated his body and appeared at the countryside, he spotted Black wave and carried her, then disappeared because he met the crowd ready to kill her. He returned to the government house and took her to her room to rest for a while. Yellow beast decided to go into the new laboratory which he built in the government house to search for the identity of the reflector. He searched round the city, trying to figure out who the reflector was but his connection couldn't capture the reflector.

The reflector arrived home and knowing the yellow beast would be searching for him because of his actions decided to go and train in preparation for the times ahead. He wore his clothes and raced into the city releasing different reflections of light. Green Wave was chilling at the city ballroom when he felt reflections of light zoom past him, so he decided to follow up with the vibrations. He disappeared, following the reflections but couldn't see anything, meanwhile, the reflector saw him because the green light in him was glowing more and more and he decided to release it to reflect towards the green wave. This reflection sent a large amount of energy into his heart, causing him to pause and stop chasing after him. Seeing this, the reflector combined with the charges present in the air and went back home. Green Wave returned back to the government house, generating energy within himself, trying to heal himself from the great shock the reflector caused in his body. Green Wave reported to Yellow Beast his discoveries about the reflector. They decided to map out a plan by producing different harmful radiations, with the intention of using the radiations to trap the reflector.

They decided to create an opportunity to do that which will attract the reflector's attention. They decided to go to the city dance hall. They entered using the power of Blue Wave which made them invisible to those who possess the red blood. They waited until everyone started getting excited in the dance, then green wave released his energy potential, causing the air in the atmosphere to become hot. People's skin began to burn, reducing the water level in their bodies. Reflector who was in his room noticed the yellow, blue, green and black waves of energy and decided to quickly put on his clothes. He combined with the air and travelled to the dance hall. He saw the wave vibrations produced by Green Wave, the people were already fainting and dying by the charged air. He decided to release his light of green reflection, reflecting it towards the energy produced by Green Wave, absorbing it and carrying it as charges. He was not seen by any of them, they just noticed that the energy produced by Green Wave was no longer working. Yellow Beast became confused at what he saw. Blue wave decided to release her vibration in order to keep them invisible. The reflector's colour chamber was reflecting all their colours and he could see them. He began to laugh. They could hear the sound of his laughter and this vexed Yellow Beast, prompting him to speak out, saying 'Reflector show yourself, you coward.' Reflector replied with confidence 'one who is strong doesn't live by the command of falsehood. What you are saying about me is not true. A coward is one who is afraid of a known danger and not doing anything to stop it.' His blue, yellow, green and black reflection of light went towards them. The light spread like a curtain around them, trapping them in it. The blue light began to penetrate Blue Wave, causing her blood pressure to rise and making her weak. The yellow light was breaking the chemical composition of Yellow Beast, the black light entered into Black Wave's heart causing different reactions and the green reflection began to form powerful molecular structures with different radiations around Green Wave. They began to scream for help. Reflector dragged them with his light energy outside the city, dumped them there and returned to the city. The reflector became surprised that in a matter of seconds, he was back home. He discovered that he is present in three realms of man, which are the past, present and future. He doesn't need to journey to the past or journey to the present or future. He could reflect himself to these realms because white light is the original source of all the realms. It is the light that forges matter, giving them their existence.

Yellow Beast and his crew were so weak as a result of the power channelled on them by the reflector, breaking and humiliating them before everyone. Green Wave, Blue Wave and Black Wave vowed to search for the reflector and bring him down because he was nothing but a reproach to them. Yellow Beast said to them 'We must quickly do something to keep the people of the city of Calamba busy while we try to capture the reflector. We will create a high reflective index material which will have the ability to stop his reflections while the people are battling with radiation produced by us.' They decided to carry out this plan by sending Blue Wave to release the radiation while Black Wave was to release the black poisonous radiation which will attract the reflector. Black Wave moved into the air channelling her wave energy to the air molecules. The reflector was in his home trying to practise when he felt a distortion of the air molecule. He decided to go and correct it because it was dangerous to those with red blood. As he was moving, releasing his own black wave and trying to distort the black poison, he moved towards the high reflective index trap. Reflector knew that for him to be able to stop the effect of the black poison, he must destroy the source. Hence, he kept channeling his reflections of light, moving at a high speed. Before he knew it, he was trapped in the high reflective index material. Meanwhile, Blue Wave had released the ultraviolet poisonous radiation over the city of Calamba. This radiation caused their skin to react and get damaged. Many were rushed to the hospital for treatment. It was a day of great pain in the city. Yellow Beast, Green Wave and Black Wave were happy at their work. Yellow Beast said to the reflector 'You have caused my crew and I a great deal of trouble, we have been planning on how to capture you, but you seem to be made of a higher technology beyond our sciences. This trap will prevent you from stopping our rule over the city.' The Reflector laughed out loud, saying 'You are no rulers but a bunch of bitter folks who were privileged to have the advantage of high technology implant. I am the Reflector and I am stronger than you are. I can leave this place if I want to do so.' Yellow Beast stared at him, saying 'Whatever! Reflector of death, you can never get out of here! You are stupid and confused at the same time. No matter the reflection you release on this reflective material, its structural molecules will remain intact, nothing will change that.' Blue Wave arrived to announce the success of her mission and saw the reflector captured in the reflective index material. When the reflector heard of their wicked plan, he had to do something to save the people.

He decided to vibrate the reflective index material, but it could only reflect his white light which was bouncing back at him. The molecular structure was built in such a way that he couldn't pass through it. He wasn't happy about this. Yellow Beast said to him 'Reflector, you can't go anywhere. You will stay here and watch the city perish.' The reflector was calm, thinking of what to do to escape the trap. He decided to change to different states of matter; solid, liquid and gas. He began to reflect his light at the different states at the same time and this led to vibrations in the reflective index. He cracked the molecular structure and broke the reflective material. He came out and said 'Yellow Beast, you are foolish, you can't trap white light and keep it with you, for white light is the source of all matter.' He quickly released his reflections, dividing himself by the polarity of the air. One part of him went to the city to trap the ultraviolet poison by releasing burning light which consumed the poison and also broke its complex molecules. He cast it into the deep earth and followed it up by killing its poisonous ability by the use of water and light. The other part of him which was present with the yellow beast and his fellows began to play with them using his reflections. He would trap the energy they send to him, reflecting it in another direction and making it bounce and join the new waves of energies they were sending. The other part of him which was in the city fighting the ultraviolet poison produced a light sound which he would use to cure everyone in the city affected by the poison. He produced it using water and shot it into the atmosphere of the city. It reacted with the air and healed everyone who was affected by the poison. When he was done, he returned to fuse himself together using the power of the merging light through heart to heart connections of his light, for he was conscious of the two activities going on at the same time. When he was through with the merging of himself, he said to Yellow Beast and his fellows, 'I'm done playing with you all, wisdom is greater than strength, that is what you and your fellows lack. He immediately left them in a speck of seconds.

Yellow Beast became sad because of the potentials of the reflector, he tuned to the news station and heard that there was a bang of light in the city and everyone who was affected by the ultraviolet poison was healed. He decided to use this opportunity to gain the trust of the people. He called the pressmen for an interview with him. He went with his fellow and said to the people 'We have faced terrible times as a people in this city. The poison that killed many of our citizens brought pains to my heart, but if we stand together in unity we will overcome. The reflector is an enemy of our city. He is made up of harmful materials and does nothing but evil. These harmful materials which he releases cause sickness to us as a people. The politicians could not handle him, that was why we took power from them to deal with him. So I'm announcing and passing it as a law that the reflector is an enemy of the government. We will use every possible means to capture him and bring him to face the full weight of the law.' A woman among the media team asked him 'How will you capture the reflector?' He smiled and said, 'Leave that to me and my fellows, we will map out a plan to capture the reflector.' Another member of the team asked him saying, 'The people have never seen your face, you have always disguised yourself when speaking to them, don't you think its high time the people knew their leader?' He laughed out loud and said, 'There is no need for that. I am known as the yellow beast, a terror to politicians and everyone around. In due time, everyone will know who I am.' After saying this, he refused to answer any more question but walked away.

Reflector was watching the news and saw Yellow Beast branding him as an enemy of the government. He was lost in deep thought, his mind became conscious of the past due to the white light which has a high carbon dating material and also the capacity to detect the past. His heart was connected to the white light stream energy in his body. He used its power to navigate the past, present and future. He saw a man's name- Ucehenna in the past; dark in complexion, with big feet and a small waist, he walked as if he were in a hurry. The man was trying to save a woman who was being molested by her boyfriend, this attracted the people of the community. The woman wanted to save her boyfriend because she had feelings for him, so she lied to the people that her boyfriend was trying to save her from Uchenna who wanted to molest her. This made the people tie Uchenna up and beat him mercilessly. They later handed him over to the police. This left him devastated for many days, until a friend of his, named Damola came to visit him while he was in the custody of the police. Seeing his friend, Uchenna began to cry and was not able to express himself. He spoke with his voice stuttering 'I am innocent of this crime. I was accused of what I did not do. I haven't done anything to deserve this.' Damola said to him 'My friend clam down and stop crying, it's going to be fine.' He paused and waited for him to stop crying and then continued, 'Sometimes when we do the right thing, we see those who try to do evil take advantage of it, using it to enrich themselves and waxing stronger and stronger. That doesn't mean the truth will not surely win at the end of the day. Truth can be hidden and trampled upon, but with time it shall be known.' Uchenna became calm, trying to ponder what he just heard. He decided to cheer up, waiting for the verdict of the truth to be revealed. They chatted happily together, after a while, Damola left him in great hope. Some months later, the lady was admitted to the hospital because she was beaten and molested by her boyfriend. A policewoman who was doing an investigation questioned her on her sickbed, she said to the policewoman 'Madam I would have saved myself this trouble if I had not covered up my boyfriend's sin when he first tried to molest me. Mr Uchenna is innocent, my boyfriend is a beast. He beats me and tries to take advantage of ladies. Please arrest him and free the innocent man.' This was how Mr Uchenna regained his freedom. The reflector became conscious of his present state, he encouraged himself saying, 'Truth will always prevail. No one can ever water it down or try to stop it.' From then on, he never gave his attention to the negative things being said concerning him.

Yellow beast and his fellows began to work on how to capture the reflector. They started to carry out research on the effect of dark particles on white light.

They watched white light being compressed in an area enclosed by darkness and no matter how the light tried to escape, the dark particles kept absorbing the penetrating power of the white light. They were so glad and satisfied with this research of theirs. They agreed on how to capture the reflector with the dark particles because he was becoming a great threat to their mischievous plans and catalogue of evil. The yellow beast created a path using high speed accelerated particles to draw a focal point where the reflector can be captured. After arranging it, they decided to go to the city traffic jam and cause some trouble. Black Wave who was sent ahead of them went there, releasing her dark energy and sending her dark poison to choke and destroy the people. Reflector who was sitting at the garden of his house began to hear the screams and vibrations going on at the traffic jam. He immediately got his clothes on with the energy ability and moved very fast to the traffic jam in order to save the people. He moved with an acceleration that was at a constant speed, sending signals to Black Wave. Black Wave decided to confuse him by spreading the black poison like a curtain in order to shield herself from being penetrated by the black reflection released by the reflector. Reflector arrived, releasing his different reflections of light. He saw her tricks and decided to release five different colours of light in order to break open the thick cloud of darkness surrounding her. He sent purple, violet, grey and brown reflections of white light in order to break open her shield with black light as the powerhouse which will make the black poisonous wave to be free of its poisonous content. He was releasing it and moving in the direction of the dark particles. He noticed that his reflections began to bounce back as he was being trapped inside a dark region of high concentrated matter. He was shocked because he never expected it. He was drowned until he was being captured completely inside the dark particles.

Yellow Beast and his fellows celebrated their victory over the reflector because they were finally able to capture him. The people whom the reflector tried to save died in their numbers at the traffic jam. Meanwhile, Yellow Beast decided to give news to the people of Calamba city. He invited the media team who quickly came to take his speech. He started his speech with all the citizens watching through their various devices. He spoke in a low, sober tone, saying, 'Today is one of the days when something unfortunate has happened in our city. The reflector who has decided to use his dangerous powers to afflict the citizens will be brought to justice soon. I want all the people to cheer up and all those who have lost their loved ones in this attack to accept the government's sincere condolence. We are going to do our best to capture the reflector and make sure that he does not go unpunished.' A young lady among the media crew asked a question, saying 'Please sir, can you tell us more about who the reflector is?' He turned and looked at her with anger in his voice, saying 'No one has any idea who the reflector is. He is a masked fellow who does nothing but release reflections that are hazardous to our citizens. Someday, I believe that the reflector's identity will be made known and we will hand him over to the police.' A man among them said 'But some individuals are saying that the black poisonous wave released during the incident at the traffic jam is the same as the one released by the black wave when you wanted to punish those who could not pay their taxes.' Yellow Beast was taken aback but he quickly framed up an answer to the man's question, saying 'I am a scientist, I can prove to you that all the reflector does is produce reflections with different colours of radiation and those reflections are only owned by the reflector.' After saying this, he dismissed the media crew, refusing to answer any more question from them. Yellow Beast went to the dark particles pit where the reflector was trapped in and said to him 'Welcome my friend the reflector, you claimed you were very powerful and that no one could stop you, now I have proven to you that white light can be stopped. The people you are trying to save are stupid and they have believed that you are the bad person causing destruction to the city and nothing can change that. You will never leave the dark particles again, you will forever be there, while my fellows and I will wax strong in this city and no one will be able to stop us again.' Reflector was quiet, he was pondering on what to do in order to escape the dark particles which he was being trapped in. Yellow beast said to him 'Since you have nothing to say, please enjoy yourself in the dark particles while I carry on with my normal daily business.' He left the reflector who began to release his different colours of white light trying to break and escape from the dark particles. He discovered that no matter how hard he tried, he couldn't escape. He decided to transform himself into a different state of light. He discovered that his gaseous self escaped the dark particles, but his liquid and solid states were captured in the dark particles. He decided to go to his laboratory in his home in his gaseous state to experiment on how he can free his solid and liquid states from the dark particles. Later on, Green Wave came down to meet him, laughing and boasting of the abilities of the yellow beast, he said to him 'You can be free from this trap if you promise to serve my master who is very wise and loving.' On hearing this, he replied, 'Wisdom is not demonstrated in doing evil, it is best demonstrated in love. Bitterness and self-pity has beclouded your master and your fellows.' Green Wave laughed out loud, saying to him 'You are not serious and not ready to leave these dark particles. When you are ready, you will submit to my master.' He walked away, leaving the reflector in thoughts.

The reflector's gaseous self was working in his laboratory on the dark particles and how his other selves will be able to escape the trap. He discovered that black matter was able to break down the captivating power of the dark particles and let light flow away. He arranged the black matter and moved with it to the dark particles trap. Getting there, he couldn't enter with the black matter, only his gaseous state could pass through. He kept trying for hours with no success. He later decided to fix the black matter to himself, and immediately, the molecular structure of the dark particles opened up, allowing him to pass through. He fused himself back to his solid and liquid states, placing the black matter in his body. The dark particles could not hold him any longer, he broke through and came out. He saw Blue Wave approaching. Sighting her, he released his blue reflection and she fainted. Yellow Beast came to check on him as usual and discovered he was gone and Blue Wave was lying on the floor. He was pissed off. With tears dripping from his eyes, he vibrated her back to consciousness. When she stood up, she promised to deal with the reflector, telling her master to leave the task to her.

3

THE FALL OF YELLOW BEAST

T he company's managing directors were having a circle meeting in the board room located on the top floor of the company building. They were

discussing how to move the company forward. Then a sharp dispute arose at the point of making a decision among them. They argued among themselves over the sales and purchasing power of the company's wares. They decided to search for the boss's kids in order to seek their opinion as well as their permission to manage the company without the violation of the will written down by their mother. They decided to pay a visit to Osato's aunty to inquire about their boss's children. They arrived at her home and requested for Osato and Enebong, for they were stepsisters. Osato's mum was married to someone else and they had Enebong together before she got married to Osato's father. Her first husband died after some time and she couldn't continue alone, so she decided to marry Osato's father who promised to take care of Enebong as well. With the new husband, they had Osato. When Osato's father realised that his wife had become so attached to him, he decided to ask her to put away Enebong claiming that he doesn't want to train another man's child. They argued and fought about it for a while but in order to maintain peace, she decided to take Enebong to her sister, giving her monthly allowances. After some time, Osato's father died and the wife (Osato's mother) was found to live with a deadly ailment that could only allow her to live for a few days. When she finally died and the will was read to the sister(Osato's aunt), she became very bitter that the sister did not will anything to her. Because of this, she decided to maltreat the poor girl(Enebong) and eventually poisoned her. This made her go blind and she later cast her to the city street. For Osator, she turned her into a child labourer making her perform all forms of hard labour. Her sister willed the company to her daughters. The company's managing directors arrived at her house and she was very surprised to see them. She thought they had taken full possession of the company. They greeted and stated their request for wanting to see the two girls. She said to them 'The two girls travelled to another city and they don't want to be disturbed, but they will be back in two months' time.' The company directors were surprised at the words of their aunty but they didn't want to argue with her for fear that she might manipulate the children and they would lose their job. They appreciated her and left to discuss among themselves. They decided to continue with the other method adopted by their mother, pending the time the children would return.

Blue Wave took on research to trap the reflector, she studied the abilities of light as a metallic substance and its ability to be attracted by a magnet. She developed a complex magnetic structure that can keep light to itself. She decided to plan with Black Wave and Green Wave to capture the reflector and bring him down. She organised a seminar for the young adults in the city which was to develop them technologically. The meeting was fixed at the green water reserve area of the city. Black Wave built a vessel that would be able to capture her dark poison, keeping it in the vessel, making the particles of the poison move in the direction she wants. These particles can cause destruction when released. Reflector who was trying to get information about the city by studying the light reflection of the past, present and future of mankind using the high condense light device in his laboratory felt a vibration passing through the earth, moving at a speed which was similar to that of the black wave. He decided to reflect his black light, scanning around the vessel. All he could detect was a dark cloud hidden inside of it. He suspected the vessel and decided to allow his black light to accompany it. The vessel moved and stopped at the centre of the conference building, waiting for the right moment. Blue Wave came up on stage, displaying the different developments that the government has been working on concerning the human brain. She showed a lot of cells spreading and moving at high speed and some other cells moving slowly. She began to deliberate on the potentials that will arise if all the cells move at a high speed. When she was done speaking, the other speaker came up to speak and she sent a signal to Black Wave by releasing her vibrations in the air and channeling her thoughts to Black wave whose atmosphere became thick with blue cloud of light. She released her wave, bending the structure of the blue cloud of light and the thoughts of Blue Wave began to sound like words, asking her to release the vessel. Black Wave sent her wave vibrations to the vessel. It broke and the dark poison in it spread like wildfire around the building, choking the young adults. The black reflection which was sent to monitor the scenario began to glow, releasing sounds that resonated with the reflector's chambers of light. Seeing this, the reflector immediately left what he was doing and went to get the vessel and destroy its poisonous content by using the spreading principle of light. Blue wave knew the reflector will come at anytime, so she decided to allow him to save the young adults by removing the poison from the dark cloud. The reflector arrived and began dealing with the dark cloud while Blue Wave spread her magnetic beam around the building, waiting for him to move out. Getting out of the building after destroying the poison, reflector was captured by the magnetic beam.

He noticed he could not detach himself from the magnet. Blue Wave vibrated her energy, trying to make the reflector and the magnetic beam become invisible but it was not possible because the chemical composition that makes up the reflector was higher than hers. She tried her possible best to do that but could not. She immediately sent words to the yellow beast, asking for help. When the request got to Yellow Beast, he decided to use his power to stop the conference, asking that the environment be sealed up and everyone driven away. Yellow Beast, Green Wave and Black Wave came down to the green water reserve area of the city. They decided to combine their power together and fight the reflector, channeling it in one focal direction. The reflector who was attached to the magnet saw their vibrations of energy coming. He immediately started reflecting his full colour of light which was bouncing off the vibrations and bringing them to the ground. This continued for a long time. At a point, the reflector got tired and decided to escape with his gaseous and liquid states, but he couldn't because they contained magnetic properties. He began to wonder and finally said to himself 'Anything that can keep you to itself without separating itself from you is actually you.' Coming to terms with this, he released all his reflections and it absorbed all the magnetic beams into himself. When he was done, he stood his ground. Looking at them, he said 'bitterness produces strife and tries to harm everyone, thinking only of itself. One who is rid of this is a king in his own world.' After saying this, he left for his home, refusing to fight them despite the vibrations they sent against him trying to get him to fight back.

Blue Wave became shocked at the ability displayed by the reflector. She said to Yellow Beast, 'Just give me another chance and I will do all I can to bring him down.' Yellow Beast who was equally stunned by the powers displayed by the reflector kept shaking his head in disappointment. Finally he spoke up and said to her 'I believe you will find a way to conquer the reflector. He is nothing but a reproach to us all.' They quit talking and used the power of their energies to return to the government house. Immediately they arrived, Blue Wave went to the laboratory to study the polarity of water with light charges. She decided to build an insulator that would have enough strength to stop the movement of charges. After doing this, she called Green Wave and Black Wave to discuss how to build this on the water bank outside the city and how they can attract the reflector to the place. Green Wave released his vibrations, ran to the city, captured Miss Chichi who was working in her office and took her to the centre of the city. He lifted her, trying to remove all the energy in her body through the use of the green light. Reflector who was taking a walk down the street, saw the chambers of his light energy colours begin to glow its greenish hue. He immediately used the spreading energy of the white light and appeared at the place she was. Green Wave tried using his energy to remove all the water content in her body which contained charges. Seeing him, Green Wave began to move towards the river outside the city. Reflector sent his green reflection to capture and stop the green wave. Green Wave immediately released his green vibration, putting her inside of it and directing it to the river. The green reflection sent by the reflector hit Green Wave who created a wave to attack the reflection. The reflection he sent only attacked green wave but the lady was captured and taken to the river through the green wave vibration energy. Before he could notice that the reflection he sent didn't save her, it was already late. He quickly released his spreading light, went straight into the water and left green wave to battle the green reflection he sent. Immediately he entered the water, he captured her and put her in his light chamber, making it more suitable for one with the red blood. He tried moving away from the river but noticed that all his reflections were generating charges inside the water and a very strong insulator that couldn't conduct charges was preventing him from leaving the water. Blue Wave and her fellows arrived at the river. They were so glad to have captured the reflector. Blue Wave said to him 'Reflector of light, your goodness and kind gesture has led you to be trapped in this river of death.' Reflector who was busy trying to free himself answered her, saying 'Kindness and goodness produce true champions who will always bring joy to mankind, but a heart which is set to do evil will end up in shame. Many are the troubles of a man of love, but love will win at the end of it all.' Black Wave quickly chipped in, saying 'These same people you are trying to save hate you, but you keep helping them. One day, you will die trying to save them.' He answered her by saying; 'The kisses of love implanted in the hearts of men speak louder than the consciousness of evil ruling it. Bitterness has blinded you from seeing that man is not a product of good and evil, but a product of love.' They began to laugh at and to make jest of him, and Black Wave said to him 'This place was built with materials that will never allow you to pass through; it has the capacity to resist your light energy. All you will try to do is waste your time attempting to escape. Our master will be so happy to hear about your capture and final exit from the city of Calamba.' They left the environment with joy and reported all the happenings to Yellow Beast. Yellow Beast left what he was doing and together they went back to the river. On arrival, Yellow Beast screamed out with so much confidence and power, saying 'You alone art the reflector, but I shared my powerful ability with others. No one will ever save you unless you pledge to be loyal to me.' Reflector began to laugh and said to him with the power of the energy within him, 'Never will love bow to hate; love and bitterness can't be friends. Being loyal to you would mean denying my integrity.' Yellow Beast became angry at the kind of confidence displayed by the reflector and said to him 'You think you are powerful and strong, you are nothing but a speck of dust which I can crush. I may not know how to end you for now, but with time I will figure out how to do so.' He left angrily to the government house, making up his mind to work on a plan to bring an end to the reflector.

The company's managing directors were surprised that for a long time the children had not called them to come for the meeting. They discussed among themselves in one of their meetings that there was something fishy about that woman. So they decided to invite the lawyer who facilitated the will and discuss the issue.' They deliberated for a while and agreed to invite Barrister Aminu; a short man with a big tummy, known for his low tone of voice, sluggish walk and a pair of glasses which makes him look like an ancient monk. They welcome him, thanking him for staying with the company when their boss was alive. He thanked them for inviting him and they went down to business immediately. One of the company's managing directors said to him 'Sir, we have been trying to contact our boss's children whom she willed the company to but it has not been funny at all. The sister has prevented us from seeing them.' His mouth became wide open on hearing this and he waited patiently for him to finish speaking before he said a word. When they were all done speaking he said to them 'There is no need going back to meet the aunt of those children. We should get the police to investigate secretly on what is going on in the house. We need information. From there we can find out what skeleton she has in her cupboard.' The mangers all agreed to this and decided to commit the job into his hands. They appreciated him for coming to their aid at a time of need.

Efe's dad was trying all his possible best to track down his son. He had resolved to divorce his wife as a result of this. He tried all his best to have another child through several other women but all to no avail. It never worked out. He began to drink different types of strong drink in order to keep himself whole. One day, as he was drinking, some policemen knocked at his door. He was so drunk that he staggered to the door and opened it. He met the policemen, his mouth smelling very bad. He began to speak like one who was running mad, this made the policemen call the health emergency agent to come pick him up. The health emergency agency vehicle arrived, blowing its siren.

They marched upstairs to carry him, he struggled with them for a while, shouting and saying all manner of words. After many attempts, they succeeded in carrying him to the vehicle and taking him to the rehabilitation centre for treatment.

After a few days, he became better. The policemen arrived and greeted him saying 'Mr Oghene Ochuko, we have found a young man who resembles your son, we want you to come and see if he can recognize you as his father.' 'He was so happy to hear this and said 'Take me to him, I can't wait to see my son.' The policemen told him to calm down that they have put everything in place. He quickly dialed a number and communicated with them asking them to bring the young man to him. After a few minutes, the door was opened and a young man entered. He was dressed in prison wears with some guards leading him. Seeing the young man, he stood up to hug him. The young said to him Old man, I am not your missing son. I am just here to tell you to go and fix your life. I have committed crimes and I have decided to go to prison to pay for it. My parents taught me to do the right things, but I decided I was wiser than they and could do whatever I want. So dear old man, you need to stand up and fix the remaining pieces of your life. There is still more to life than it seems. When I get out of this prison, I promise to follow what my parents have taught me.' At this statement, tears began to flow down his cheeks. He picked the small picture of Efe in his pocket, stared at it and decided to sit down. He said to the young man 'Thank you for giving me hope again. I thought all was lost. I just wish you were my son, but I will give heed to your words.' The young man hugged him and they both cried on each other's neck. The policemen and guards were surprised at this. After a while, they led the young man away. He stayed in the Rehabilitation Centre for some months, when he was finally healthy, he was free to go home. He stopped drinking and decided to fix the remaining piece of his life, with hope beaming in his heart for the future.

Barrister Aminu decided to meet his long-time friend named Chisom, a tall police sergeant with a huge body. Very good in carrying out investigations and had won many national awards for his success in carrying out investigations. He gave him a call, saying to him 'Hello secret finder' Chisom began to laugh and said to him 'The legal winner, this one you are calling me today, hope all is fine?' He replied with seriousness in his voice, saying 'There is a job I want you to carry out, I believe this job will boost your career and help you save some innocent people.' They finally agreed to meet at the relaxation centre of the city to discuss further the following day. The following day, Barrister Aminu walked in and saw Chisom sitting at a distance, he walked up to him and they shook hands together. They spoke in a low tone for some hours and he finally agreed to carry out the investigation.

The day after the meeting at the relaxation centre, Chisom paid a visit to Osato's aunt. He knocked at the door and one of her children named Afebua answered the door. He greeted the stranger who was smiling at him and said 'Good morning sir, how may I help you?' He looked at him and asked 'Is this Mrs Sharon Babajide's home?' He became shy, and answering with discomfort in his voice, he said 'Yes sir, mummy is at home.' He ushered him into the sitting room and offered him a seat. After a few minutes, his mum walked out of her room and greeted him, 'Good evening sir, my child informed me that you are here to see me.' He replied with full assurance in his face, saying 'Yes Mrs Sharon Babajide. I have a business deal worth billions of Naria. I have been searching for someone with a trusted reputation to do this business with; one who can keep secrets. Her mind began to run through many things, trying to figure out the type and possibility of this business working out. She finally replied, saying 'What kind of business is this and where do I come in?' He smiled at her, saying 'Madam, don't worry about that, I am here to invite you for a meeting where we can talk about this properly.' She shook her head and said 'No problem, I will come for the meeting.' They discussed for a while, then he gave her the address and date for the meeting and left the house.

On the day of the meeting, she dressed beautifully, walking into the famous memorial bounce building, which was built in the memory of freedom fighters, who fought for the peace of the city. She sighted him sitting with some other men and a lady in their midst and she walked down to them, taking the extra seat reserved for her. They welcome her to the meeting and then they all stood up to introduce themselves. Among them was a handsome man in his early forties named Tor who was busy staring at her from the onset of the meeting. Chisom started the meeting saying, 'We have a business deal to carry out, this business will bring forth billions of Naria. We have found a company that will supply the product. The government has put a ban on the importation of this product, but this company only deals with people who are interested.' He paused, took a deep breath for a while and then continued, 'The product is cocaine, we smuggle this to the distribution channel and make our money.' When she heard this, she became alarmed, and her heart began to pound within her. She quickly interrupted him saying, 'Won't the security agency find out?' He laughed out loud, saying 'Leave that to me, I will handle them. All we need is one person among us that can serve as our representative.' She became lost in deep thought and was tried to figure out what to do afterward as she listened to them deliberating. After a while, she said to them all 'I will do the job.' Tor quickly responded, saying 'But Mrs Sharon, it will be risky for you to carry out such a task, this is your first time.' She answered him with an expression of confidence, 'Don't worry Mr Tor, I am able to do this, I'm used to risky businesses.' He tapped his feet on the ground and looked her in the eye while Chisom continued the meeting. They finalised everything on how to carry out the business. After the meeting, Tor said to her 'Please can I give you a ride home?' She smiled and told him not to worry. 'A beautiful woman like you should not be seen alone. I would be glad if you allowed me to drop you off.' She gave in to his request and he drove her home, chatting and discussing many things on their way. From that day onward, she became very close to Tor, opening up to him many of her deepest secrets and they arranged on how she would meet the boss of the group for business transactions as agreed by them. It was not an easy job because the boss was heavily guarded by thugs. She walked into the building and met a young slender man with black hair, the frontier part of his teeth broken and his tone of voice very high. 'Welcome Mrs Sharon Babajide, I am known as the Lord of business. Hope you were not sent by the government to trap me?' She grinned her teeth, saying 'Oh no way. I am here for business and that's all.' They discussed business for some time, then she brought out the money given to her by her team and handed it over to him. As she was doing that, the police surrounded the building, cracking down the thugs. The police quickly surrounded her and the man, arresting them both. The man began to rain down curses on her but it was already too late as they were both being carried away for further investigation by the police. The police released her after a while, telling her that she was not involved in this, but was used to trap the criminal. She became relieved and left for her home.

The following day, she was relaxing on her sofa when she heard a gentle knock on her door. She stood up to open the door and met Tor and Chisom dressed in their police uniform. She was surprised at first and then Chisom said to her 'Mrs Sharon Babajide, sorry we disguised ourselves at first in order for you to help us carry out an operation, but now we have come to invite you to the police station to answer some questions.' She became mad at them both, shouting at the top of her voice, 'So you both think you can walk to my house with your uniform and demand me to come over?' Tor became serious and said to her 'Don't waste our time, you are going to answer some questions concerning the children who were under your care' She became scared and followed them. On their way, she whispered to Tor saying 'I trusted you and told you all about my life, don't betray me please.' He nodded his head and said 'I am just doing my job.' They arrived at the police station and began to question her. She refused to open up at first, but Tor brought out recordings where she told him the stories. Tears began to run down her cheeks and that was when she opened up and told them everything, pleading for mercy. Chisom smiled and said to her 'I heard you were tough to get, but your love for money made you fall victim to the trap. Greed and self-centeredness made you do this, now you will have to face the wrath of the law. Anyone who loves to gain the world through crooked means must know that he or she is set for a journey of lies and evil. One doesn't have to gain the world through that means, love gains the world.' She was asked to write her statement, after which she was led away by the police.

Later that day, Chisom called Barrister Aminu and told him everything that had transpired between them. He sent the recordings to him which he communicated to the managing directors of the company. This information made them so angry. They were frustrated and didn't know what to do towards moving the company forward, for there was an amount of money they couldn't access without the children's signature.

Back in the city, things became worse as Black Wave, Blue Wave and Green Wave decided to destroy the city of Calamba. They began to release their waves, creating thick, condense gases in the atmosphere which are cancerous to the people, melting their skin away. It created a barrier that stopped oxygen from circulating. Reflector was still in their trap trying to figure out what to do when all the light in his body began to reflect at a sudden phase. He immediately checked it and discovered that the city was in great danger. He quickly began to reflect his light downward, entering into the soil and combining with the charges in it, creating a light passageway and moving out of the trap using the charges of the soil. When he finally got out, he looked to the sky and saw the terrible damage their waves were about to bring to the city. He began to reflect his light towards it, breaking the energy levels that combined to form it and allowing oxygen to flow freely once again. Blue Wave, Black Wave and Green Wave noticed that their energy was breaking, they looked and saw the reflector. This alarmed them and made them fuse their waves together, determined to take him down. He was bouncing back the waves they released, using his reflected energy. When he became tired of doing that, he said to them 'I think its time I put some sense into you all.' He reflected his light and trapped them in his energy chamber. When he was done, he released Miss Chichi, opening up his energy chamber which was made of high potentials of light. His energy chamber stopped them from using their wave energies. He said to them 'Bitterness and anger have corrupted you all, Yellow Beast has been using you to play his game of hate. He has fed on it for a long time, using you to carry out his agenda.' He brought out some pictures and showed it to them, Black Wave said to Blue Wave, 'The woman who was in my picture as my mother, she is the same person in yours too.' Reflector looked into their eyes and said to them 'Osato and Enebong, both of you are half-sisters.' When they heard this, they asked him, 'How did you know our real names?' He laughed out loud, saying 'White light is the source of all matter, the past, present and future are all present inside of it. All matter came into existence by it, so I used the ability of its different shades and colours to collect information from the past.' Blue Wave said to him 'But you have no proof that Yellow Beast is as evil as you claim.' He looked into her eyes and said 'Proof itself is not evidence for one to know the truth, the heart is the greatest treasure that knows what is true or false.' He brought out another picture that captured Green Wave's step-mum, their aunt and Yellow Beast's mum together. He showed it to them, saying 'Yellow Beast had all the information he needed before he captured you all and gave you these abilities. He decided to feed on your pains and use it to hurt others. The reason you do not see anything lovely about the city of Calamba is that bitterness has filled your heart. You must all cast it out and see this city from the standpoint of love. There might be some among them that are wicked, but we can't judge and conclude that every one among them is bad. Sometimes the bad ones cover the beauty of the good ones.' At this statement, Blue Wave, Black Wave and Green Wave all broke down in tears, saying 'Thank you reflector, our eyes were blinded by hate but we now understand that pains are never supposed to lead one to hate others, but are meant to lead one to become stronger and have a larger heart to help others.' This confession moved the reflector to sympathy and he released them from the chamber of light. Black Wave said to him 'What should we do about Yellow Beast?' He laughed out loud, saying 'We get to give him a chance to turn a new leaf.' Black Wave quickly chipped in, 'What if he refuses to turn a new leaf?' Blue Wave answered 'Then we have no other choice than to kill him.' The reflector said to them 'Don't worry about killing him, I will handle him myself.' They said to him in one voice 'Reflector please stay out of this, it's not your fight but ours.' After saying this, they took the pictures and used the energy of their waves to transport themselves to the government house and met Yellow Beast working in the laboratory. Blue Wave said to him, 'So you tricked us to do your evil bid.' Then she brought out the pictures and showed them to him. On seeing those pictures, he laughed out loud, saying 'Blue Wave, Green Wave and Black Wave, I made you what you are today. I picked you all up when you were nothing and gave you hope and a future. Today you all stand in my presence saying I tricked you all?' Black Wave replied 'Yellow Beast, you had all the information about our lives. Your mother, Efe's step-mum and my aunt were all friends. You took advantage of our ignorance and turned us into beasts like you. We are not here to fight you, but to ask you to repent and leave Calamba city alone. It's all in the past, we all can amend our ways.' Yellow beast groaned under his breath and said to them 'So you intended coming here with your stupid, shady sermon, expecting me to accept your opinion. You all are no match for me.' Green Wave quickly chipped in, 'Together we can take you down if you insist on going otherwise.' At this statement, Yellow Beast vibrated his body, releasing yellow energy, they too vibrated their bodies trying to fight back. They joined their energy vibrations together hitting Yellow Beast and making him lose control of himself. Yellow Beast began to receive different energy wave vibrations which broke him down. He immediately released different colours of vibrations, attacking and breaking the bond of their energies and making them fall to the ground helplessly. He said to them 'I am not a fool, I gave you only one colour of vibration power. I knew that someday I would be betrayed by you all, so I have been expecting it. Today, I'm going to end you all and pick up a new set of persons who will be loyal to me.' He vibrated all his energy colours, attempting to kill them. All of a sudden, some powerful shades of light reflected his vibrations back. He turned around to see who it was and saw the reflector standing and staring at him. He said to him 'So they released you to come here and challenge me. They have committed treason which I can never forgive.' Reflector said to him 'Forgiveness is divine and a thing of the heart, you have wronged me by killing all members of my family. The night you attacked Mr Eze, I hid under my bed praying to stay alive. I am the only surviving one now.' When he heard this, he laughed, mocking him and said to him 'You are now the reflector, did you come to seek revenge for your family?' He answered 'Revenge is for those who don't have a heart of love. I came to extend a hand of friendship and to ask you to turn a new leaf. You lost your mother, so did I, but you shouldn't have allowed grief to consume you and make you what you are now. Love is the healing power that brings out the beauty in our world.' Yellow Beast said to him 'Never and never shall it be. I love what I am now.' He quickly vibrated his full energy, knocking down the reflector to the ground. He released his vibrations, trying to raise him up and shatter him. Reflector immediately released his full power and the whole place became filled with flashes of light. Reflector regained consciousness and captured Yellow Beast inside his chambers of light. He said to him 'I will take you out of this world, you will live in my darkness of energy, where you will never be able to use your powers again.' He released reflections of light, pushing him into the dark energy chamber where he will live forever.

Blue Wave, Black Wave and Green Wave all knelt down to thank the reflector, he said to them 'It's all over now, but Osato and Enebong, show the same mercy to your aunt. Your mum owns a company and the managing directors are looking for you both. As for you Efe, go back to your father, his heart has been longing for you. Hand back the city to the people.' He gave Black Wave and Blue Wave the address of Barrister Aminu and took his leave. Blue Wave immediately called for a press conference with the media to hand over the government to the people of Calamba. In his speech, he said 'People of Calamba, the reflector was never an enemy to this city but the Yellow Beast who wanted to destroy the city using us. We have realised our mistakes and have turned a new leaf. We are returning the government to the people and we plead for forgiveness. We hope the incoming government will understand.' The media team wanted to ask them more questions, but they refused to answer and left the government house for their various homes.

Efe got back home and met his dad sitting outside trying to relax. Seeing him, he screamed out with joy 'Daddy!' His father who recognised his voice stood up and ran to hug him. His father's joy was restored immediately he saw his son. Meanwhile, Osato and Enebong met Barrister Aminu who helped them to meet with the company managing directors and request for their aunt's release, dropping all charges against her.

The city of Calamba had a new government and peace prevailed ever after.

About The Author

Joseph Emmanuel Joseph Emmanuel is a young, vibrant and gifted creative writer. He hails from Edo state in the South southern region of Nigeria. He was born and raised in the city of Zaria in Kaduna state. Growing up was a challenging experience for him, he encountered a lot of oppositions, struggles and set backs, but learnt to be strong and to fight, in order to rise above his limitations and become the best version of himself. He learnt to look within himself and to discover the wonderful potentials and creative abilities vested in him by God. He took his mind on a journey within and began to explore the infinite dimensions and the world of creativity, which he discovered existed in him and was a part of him. He learnt to believe in himself and through faith, broke through the limitations of fear and doubt shadowing his mind, becoming the powerful and creative writer he is today in our blessed country Nigeria, with a voice that speaks volumes to the nations of the world, inspiring it to further advance on the pathway and journey of change and global transformation. He is a gifted story writer and has successfully written several fictions and novels

93

that cuts across the various spheres of life. His works capture several societies, races, languages, tribes and ethnic groups in the world. He is a catalyst for global change, unification and reformation.

94
