# Resonating System

### What To Perceive So You Can Receive!

## Rinzen Joye

Copyright

* * *

© Rinzen Joye 2019

All rights reserved. No portion of this book may be reproduced in any form without permission from the publisher, except as permitted by copyright law.

Publisher: Omnipion Publishing

For permissions contact: Omnipion Publishing PoBox 240 SANDBACH CW11 5EA

Edition: 1st

ISBN 978-1-911655-19-0

Edited by: Omnipion Publishing

# Introduction

* * *

Download your free Mp3 and you will automatically be entered into my killer competition to win one of four prizes worth a total of £1949!

* * *

Hi, my name is Rinzen, and for the past thirty years after religion causing a great sense of repression in my vibration, and ending up with a fear of success due to a poor family who believed the rich and famous were somehow corrupt, I've been on a quest. I called it my spiritual freedom mission. The first aim of this mission was to free myself from all negative energies, including ones I held due to enduring years of being bullied at school, so I could manifest and live out the best version of me, the one I had always dreamed of.

This led me to read every self-help book, from authors like Louise Hay, to then finding practical teachers with a "work hard" ethic like Jim Rohn, Tony Robbins, Les Brown, and Paul Mckenna who have given me the motivational pep talks I needed, and helped me gain the confidence to reach for my dreams.

The second aim of my mission was to find spiritual truths that resonated with every part of me, one that would help and not limit this new confident mindset I was cultivating, and one that would agree with the intelligence inside my heart.

Don't get me wrong, some parts of religion resonated, one being to live a good life and good will follow and the other that there's an omnipotent force out there that, if trusted, we can use to assist us in life. But I needed to eliminate the "God fearing" side of what religion had tried to instil into me and find a faith that rang true. This was when I found Buddhism, and then the Law of Attraction, both of which had terrific snippets of what I felt deep within. Sadly, even some parts of these teachings can hinder us. For example, I like that the Law of Attraction states that the more we believe, the more we can achieve, but I'm not happy nor resonant that it says that _all_ people who are suffering have caused it themselves through their thoughts. I will elaborate on this misleading dimension of the Law of Attraction in this book. Stuff can simply happen as well, magnetised to us by a force or for reasons unknown. Also if you're disabled, it's not necessarily because you did something terrible in a past life!

We should all know that the reasons for encountering life's challenges are as diverse and complex as the people that have them - yes, we are all interconnected and co-creating, but things unfold on a bigger scale than just the Law of Attractions version of a "negative vibration" or a Buddhists version of severe "karmic consequence".

This "knowing" didn't matter at that point; I was using the best aspects of Buddhism and the Law of Attraction to my advantage, learning how to manifest while being able to handle the things that started to fall apart around me because of it, like my car being stolen. I shrugged it off, as it was material, and realised I'd manifested the situation because I had wished I no longer had to pay car insurance. I instantly shared my mum's car, saving me lots of money... which was just what I'd been hoping for.

I knew there were real magical gifts of this universe and that they were all around us, waiting for us to tap into their powers so we could make significant improvements in our lives. I also knew that us human beings could create alternate universes and paths in life for ourselves through our thoughts, actions, and beliefs. That there was a way to make everything we want work out for us, a way all possibilities we envision may be brought to us, and a way we can enhance our lives so much it seems like we do have magical powers. I knew I'd tapped into that "something" out there, an omnipotent nature.

So I carried on with my journey, completed courses on Buddhism, achieved levels of Reiki, studied the Law of Attraction at large, and I was becoming great at manifesting. I then dove into more ancient spiritual texts from across the globe, including the Tao Te Ching, Mayan wisdom, the Upanishads, the Torah, and Pagan literature. I also listened to and took in knowledge from the minds of great philosophical thinkers, gurus, and modern day spiritual leaders and I found many who are great at guiding people into seeing what the ancient teachers have always known, and they're teaching us these things in ways we can resonate with and appreciate today, and best of all, most of these teaching are backed by science as well.

The likes of Wallace Wattles, James Allen, Napoleon Hill, Claude M. Bristol, Carl Jung, Gregg Braden, Joe Dispenza, and Wayne Dyer helped me push even further along my spiritual "must find a way the universe works" path. I was also into quantum physics around this time, finding out about the energies we have inside of us, and how we're _really_ connected to all things.

That's when everything I'd ever learned was brought together and when I knew there are two principal gifts inside us: our heart and our mind, and how, with this understanding, we could communicate with the forces outside of us by using these vessels in the right way. I found that it wasn't our thoughts and actions that attracted things to happen, it was our feelings. Thoughts and actions cause emotions, which are the catalysts for manifestation and attraction. It is emotions that push out your thoughts into the aether, and it is the emotion that the aether resonates with.

Once I knew this, I did such a good job of resonating with the universe and sending out the right signals, that my whole life fell apart. I was so good at putting a clear vibration into the universe that at the age of 40, I was homeless, and had just one bag to my name.

What on Earth had I discovered?

I've come across the esoteric, omniscient and omnipresent field out there, a quantum network with mirror-like fibres, that can sense what we are transmitting into it neurologically and electromagnetically. This mystical zone reacts to this "communication" of ours by spinning in all directions, searching for the closest particles that will bring us the results it thinks we are seeking. Once it has gathered the matching frequencies, it reflects them back to us in the form of lining up the things, people, situations, circumstances, and events that will lead us to our goal. And, most of all, it does so without bias, regardless of whether what we put out is true or false, sometimes even stripping us of things we're not quite ready to let go of in order to find us the fastest way of bringing us this new frequency!

But it didn't matter. I knew this thing, this responsive body, was out there... heck, the thing had just booted me out on the street because I had a definite "thoughtling" (a thought with a strong feeling). I knew that I could find a better life. It was a breakthrough, an epiphany; I'd figured out the secret to everything! I moved into my mum's house, telling her it would take me a month to sort my life out now that I'd discovered the "Resonation Realm".

As soon as I gave it a name and tested it a little more, attracting the flat of my dreams, the job I was after, and unique furniture that I was told was no longer being made, I decided to try and manifest my soulmate. It took me two days!

I then knew I had to show others how to manifest their desires too.

My mission is to show you that this responsive field that can bring us everything we could ever want, exists. I wish for everyone to be able to awaken their true, spiritual selves. I want us all to feel at ease regularly via the tools that the ancients have given us, and for us to use them in ways that resonate in our lives today. I want us to empower ourselves, and bask in the knowledge of what magical beings we are, ones which quantum physics is now just coming to understand. As a result, we will liberate ourselves from our repression, free ourselves from the guilt, fears and other energy-blocking vibrations in our systems, and manifest our alternate, preferred realities once and for all.

Once you know about the Resonation Realm, you can apply it in a tangible and long-lasting way.

By the end of these books, I hope to have inspired you to heighten your frequency consciously and awakened you to your own power of creation to help you see we are vibratory organisms, capable of communicating with this omniscient net. I want you to realise that you are a powerful being and that you can attract your desires with ease. I want you to feel liberated and free from a "law" you can't control, while understanding what's really out there in the quantum realm and how you can tap into it with your own "thoughtlings". I want you to see that the Resonation Realm always gives you what you communicate with your heart, no matter what you wish with your mind.

Neil Donald Walsh in his book, _Conversations with God_ , states that the universe always agrees with you, it will say "yes, that's right, that's true". This was a great analogy to get people to think about not saying I want or I wish, since the universe will say "yes, I agree, you do". But I assume the Resonation Realm picks up your signal and, if it could speak and ponder, would more likely say "Oh, I see you want to find such and such, well, let me just gather and send you the many ways for you to get more of that". It doesn't really "agree" like it's confused, or it's patronising you; it merely responds to what you've tapped in with and finds you stuff impartially, not giving thought to whether you're right or wrong, or agreeing, much like a search engine. I will give you the tools you need to "tap in" to this very engine.

I hope you find the topics in my Resonation Realm series interesting, insightful, and helpful on your spiritual journey. I hope they resonate with you in a way you can trust instead of just blindly believe, as this will help you attract a better life quicker than you've ever found before. I hope that by putting this new spin on these old techniques, it will accelerate your innate magical powers and turn you into a manifesting genius, enabling you to achieve the life of your dreams once and for all.

# Disclaimer

Before you read this book, or any of the books in the Resonation Realm series, and take any of the advice from my teachings, I must point out that everything you are about to read is just my opinion. I'm merely sharing my discoveries and my findings and what works for me. Therefore, my advice and the tools for aligning your system should only be taken and used if you feel there's truth enough in what I say to make your own mind up. I can advocate that the mindset I suggest you need will be of benefit to you, but it is still your mind that will conclude whether what I say feels right to you. In other words, my words must resonate with you first.

Even if you fully trust enough to take everything I say and suggest on board, the things you want may still not come, so please be aware that I am only the messenger. I can reason why the things you wanted to happen, didn't (i.e. because your heart and mind weren't adequately aligned or because there was some underlying contradiction) but in the end, all empowering information must be worked with in resonance with your own beliefs and life circumstances. Some people may even believe they have done everything I suggest, but things may still not happen.

Sometimes things just don't work out for people!

No, it doesn't mean you can then start believing that you're unlucky; it just means you either have an unresolved or unknown energy blockage, or you're sending mixed signals. That's what this book aims to overcome but there may well be other factors at play. Whenever I've not received something I wanted, and I knew my communication was clear, I received something better. Whenever it was taking a while for something to come, I realised I had to get either more relaxed and unblocked, or more precise with what I was communicating.

You should always come to your own conclusion upon discovering things like this along your path. If I help you on the road to finding a quirky way of getting the universe to work for you much better than it did before and hence help you to create a wonderful life, then great! If you find that using my tools or following my thought process isn't for you, then that's great too because you've learned something that doesn't work and can then eliminate it from your life once and for all. When you find all the things that don't work, it will also lead you to things that do.

Listen to your heart; it knows what's right or wrong for you. As you read this book, see if it agrees or disagrees with what I'm saying. Your heart and its inner knowing makes more decisions for you than you realise. Don't just analyse my words with your logical brain, try to _feel_ what I'm saying. Your heart will give you a "yes" or a "no" feeling, a "do" or a "don't" feeling, a "trust" or a "doubt" feeling.

If something is really right for you, based on what you've learned and have acquired in your system previously, your heart will feel lighter, expand out and open with a giddy, joyous, excited and appreciative feeling that it will be freed with this light.

If something is really wrong for you, based on what you've learned and have acquired in your system previously, your heart will feel heavier, shrink inwards and tighten, with a fearful, painful feeling of dread that it will get hurt by this dark.

Does it resonate or separate?

If your heart doesn't give you an answer, but you want to give them a try because your brain thinks there's _some "_ truth" to what I say, then that's great too. Just know that you are only using the tools and information because of your own reasoning and the fact that your heart hasn't given you a resounding "no". Your path led you to this book for a reason. So take all the advice, take some, or throw it in the bin and take none. You will still be using it as another stepping stone in your discovery of what works best and what doesn't work best for you. You will still be wiser by the end of this book because of this knowledge.

I think of my path like this: I have one backpack to accompany me on my journey, and I'm only allowed to put into it the things I know will benefit me. I have the teachings of the Buddha, my Reiki principles, the Law of Attraction parts I like, and my own, unique meditation, mantra and affirmation techniques. When I'm not working, and I am enjoying my free time, I still do things that aid in my relaxation, joy, peace and happiness.

For example, I'll have bubble baths, I'll create art and music, I'll invent meditations and mantras that resonate with me and benefit me, or watch things on YouTube and listen to audiobooks that help my spiritual development. Sometimes I may watch anything to do with fantasy on Netflix. I can't say I'm procrastinating because I can class the time as research since I'm writing (in a pen name), my own fantasy novels that I will sell on this network at a later date.

Anything I gather and put in my bag, and anything I do for pleasure, benefit me. As I am an ever-evolving being, some things stay, and some things don't. As long as I keep learning from and forgiving myself for my mistakes along the way, I'll be okay.

So try my tools, contemplate my words. If they create peace, joy, positivity, a sense of wellbeing, if they eliminate self-limiting mindsets as you reprogram your brain, and help you tap into the Resonation Realm, then put them in your backpack! If they don't suit your nature, leave them be. You only have room for what works best.

One saying of the Buddhas that always resonated with me upon the matter of his teachings is that they are nothing but a finger pointing to the moon. The finger is useful because of what it points to, but you only need to see the moon. He also said not to go by reports, legends, traditions, scripture, logical conjecture, inference, analogies, agreement through pondering views, probability, or thought; it's contemplating which is our teacher! When you know for yourself that these qualities are skilful, blameless, praised by the wise, or these qualities, when adopted and carried out, lead to welfare and happiness, then you should enter and remain in them.

I'm asking you to do the same.

# Chapter 1

**The System**

So, first thing first, what do I mean by system? I mean all the stuff that goes on inside us that makes us run right. From our seven chakras to our brains and our hearts in-between them. We need all of them to be working together in alignment. We need our brain cogs running in the right order, our chakra wheels spinning in the right direction, and no sticky restrictions blocking the flow of our hearts.

So why is it so difficult to get our system running in harmony so we can vibrate in perfect alignment? All anyone wants when they desire things, no matter what items they desire, is to be happy, right? Apart from bills that we have to pay and basic needs that have to be met, all of our money is spent on and saved for what we believe will make us happy, safe, confident, loved, honoured, respected and admired. So we just have to get happy and that's it, isn't it?

Yes, if there's no underlying, hidden, or apparent opposing feeling in our systems that we shouldn't have these things. You see, the only reason we haven't yet manifested what we desire is because of our faulty, hardwired programming, blocking it from coming in one way or another. We can do this through fear, as we shrink inwards and tighten the strands of our DNA, not allowing it to come forth; there's a reason we call it resistance. We can also do this by constant conflicting thoughts and feelings towards our desire, which doesn't allow the Resonation Realm to pick up a clear signal.

Your perception affects your wellbeing, your programming, your whole internal structure; it determines whether you manifest your fears or your dreams, or nothing at all.

We can't open ourselves up to have a look, use a tool and dig out thought processes that have become neurologically wired into our brains, but we can clean our energy fields with our conscious minds. We must analyse what's going on, note that the software had been downloaded without our approval or our true agreement when we weren't paying attention to what was happening, and make a continued effort to override that original program.

As this book investigates all the possible areas where you have blockages due to old programs that don't serve you, it will be like installing an anti-malware program to update and reboot your system. It will be like giving your car a service; you'll feel brand new and raring to go. You may feel that you understand the "laws" of this universe, or what you must think and feel to manifest your desires, but unless you clean your system, you won't manifest things as quick or as exactly as you'd like.

Our first investigation is to look for signs of repression.

"We are what we think.

All that we are arises with our thoughts.

With our thoughts, we make the world."

_Buddha_

"Change your thoughts, and you can change your life."

_Tao Te Ching_

Some religious people can have more of an aversion to achieving the things they want than others. There are a few reasons for this. First, some feel they shouldn't be greedy; they should be satisfied with what they have, and not crave for more. Second, they are repressed, indoctrinated into feeling they shouldn't seek success, fame or riches because that's only about satisfying the ego. So most of the things they desire will come with a counter-thought about what effects this wanting and striving for things will have on their spiritual natures, or worse still, an underlying sense of guilt and self-foreboding.

No matter what counteractive thoughts we may have, deep down, we know our nature will always wish for us to grow, expand, flourish and receive the sweet things in life. We know we shouldn't have to work so hard to suppress our natural selves... unless they are harmful, of course. We know we were not put on Earth to lay low, suffer, struggle, stay quiet and small. That's why Buddhists chant and revere artistic talents, and Evangelists sing from the rooftops "Oh, happy days."

We're here to sing, to be seen, to evolve, to expand, to grow, to celebrate, to live in joy, and to have beautiful, wholesome desires - that will benefit not only ourselves, but everyone around us! We sometimes have to separate ourselves from strict religious beliefs and realise that we are "spiritual" beings instead of "religious" beings, while acknowledging that all of us, no matter what faith we start from, should thrive... we're supposed to 'think right' after all, aren't we?

So, how can we resonate with desiring and purposely concentrating on attracting whatever it is we want, when we hear so many things like...

_"Peace comes from within... do not seek it without!"_

_"Do not dwell on the past, do not dream of the future; concentrate the mind on the present moment."_

_"Sorrow cannot touch the man who is not in the bondage of anything, who owns nothing."_

_"If whether for his own sake, or for the sake of others, a man wishes neither for a son, nor for wealth, nor for lordship, and does not wish for his own success by unfair means, then he is good, wise and virtuous."_

_"The gods even envy him whose senses, like horses well broken in by the driver, have been subdued, who is free from pride, and free from appetites: such as one who does his duty is tolerant like the earth, or like a threshold: he is like a lake without mud: no new births are in store for him."_

_"The man who is free from credulity, but knows the uncreated, who has cut all ties, removed all temptations, renounced all desires, he is the greatest of men."_

_"Fools follow after vanity. The wise man keeps earnestness as his best jewel. Follow not after vanity, nor after the enjoyment of love and lust! He who is earnest and meditative obtains ample joy."_

These things were taught to make you feel settled within, settled without the things you crave, not that you shouldn't also desire things alongside this feeling. They were meant to enlighten us so that we could live in peace and joy, no matter what.

This is why, when the Law of Attraction teaches us to concentrate on our desires through visualising, affirmations, and trying to act now like you would if you had the thing you wanted, we can also feel the contrast of what Buddhism teaches us. We think we should go beyond desires and live mindfully in the moment accepting what is, instead of this constant shifting of focus on what is wanted in the future or what has gone in the past.

That's why meditation is so important to Buddhists. But you mustn't get mixed up by what they mean when they wrongly say "desires" because what they mean is "craving" — and there's a massive difference.

**To desire something is natural and beautiful and fills you with gladness, excitement, hope, and joy at the very thought of having it!**

**To crave something is not natural; it fills you with anxiety, worry, greed, desperation, depression and sometimes jealousy towards others who have what you want. It fills you with a sense of lack!**

The Sanskrit word that means "thirst," and is commonly translated as craving or desire, is taṇhā _,_ which is defined as the craving to hold on to pleasurable experiences, to be separated from painful or unpleasant experiences, or to gain neutral feelings. The Buddhist tradition identifies it __ as a self-centred type of desire that is based on ignorance. This type of desire is the opposite of wholesome kinds of desires, such as the desire to benefit others and follow the Buddhist path.

The opposite of taṇhā is upekkha, peace of mind, pure mental state, equanimity.

We need to understand deep within us the difference between the two words 'craving' and 'desire' and think logically to establish which would create suffering.

So, if you read or hear anywhere that Buddhists want you to stop desiring, they mean craving! Craving is suffering; desiring is natural and beautiful. In trying to manifest something into your life, the key is to want it in a natural, relaxed, non-attached way, like it doesn't matter if you get it or not, as if either way, you're happy, then this is fine and won't harm you in any way. If you can desire for happiness for yourself and others, with a feeling of peace and equanimity, of pure love, with no counteractive, underlying guilt, we'd not only be blessed by the Buddha, we'd be a manifesting genie!

One thing the Buddha did say about desires that may have been meant as desires was...

_"Those who are slaves of desires, run into the stream of desires, even as a spider runs into the web that it made."_

I'm sure we can agree that if you are a _slave_ to desires, then this could have adverse, karmic effects. We wouldn't give in to sexual misconduct, i.e. sleep with someone else's partner or sleep with someone else while we had a partner for example, but we are allowed to have sex with a consenting partner when we feel the urge, while honouring our morals and other people's values and desires as well. Just don't let desires control you; the trick is to know that you're okay with or without them. Desiring for the wrong reasons creates attachment issues. If you think that the only way to be truly happy and make your life better is to get your desired thing, then this will make it hard for you to manifest it since your desire is coming from a place that feels like your life is rubbish without it, which makes it more of a craving. It helps to realise that all things are impermanent and all things are unsatisfactory anyway.

To align your desires in the right way, sense how they feel to you when you think about them. If they feel bad, then it is a sign that deep down, you feel in lack and are possessed by your desires. The desire will feel like it has an emotional hook into you which will make you feel clingy or as if you are grasping for it desperately. Desperation repels your desires and hinders manifestation. But if you can visualise what it's like to have it now, feeling love and appreciation for it, you will energise beautiful thoughtlings (thoughts and feelings together) that will end up attracting your desire.

The Buddha also said...

" _To live a pure, unselfish life, one must count nothing as one's own in the midst of abundance."_

So there... you can live in abundance! The Buddha only challenged us to not grasp and cling, or feel the negative, possessive stuff that comes with a physical craving but instead to share your wealth with those who are needy. Feel how nice it would be if you had it, but not because you lack it. If you can't do this, try not to think of it at all, just sit being mindful and accepting and appreciating what is while clearing all thoughts to find peace.

Desire is beautiful and natural; we all have hopes arising in us in each moment as we learn and take note of the beauty around us and how we wish to serve the world better. You desire to love someone for the connection, so you can share and give back the love you have in you. You naturally want to give it and share it and procreate. If you crave it, it means you are coming from a desperate sense of lack. You are focussed more on the fact that you don't have it and feel sad that you don't have what others have. This makes you repulsive to pure, beautiful love, and manifesting a relationship.

We desire individual careers because we're naturally skilled or interested in one thing over another. We wish to visit other countries to learn about different cultures and the expansion of mind it would harness. We desire to meditate and find stillness, comfort and inner peace; the desire to do these things can't be seen as suffering. To try and stop desires arising is unnecessary and, in the end, futile. Desiring cannot be stopped completely. Even the desire to stop desiring is a desire!

Craving for things, however, can be and should be stopped. Craving is suffering! Craving is the difference.

Don't get the two confused... _feel_ the difference, even when there's a fine line, reach for the questioning: would I feel better or worse if I could let go of this? Not allowing yourself to be who you want to be because you think you shouldn't desire it, is suffering! The Buddha didn't want us to suffer.

Some craving, of course, can't be helped; if we were to go without food or water for a substantial amount of time, our instinct for survival would kick in. Just like if we're ill, we'd want to be well, we can't help that. The trick is not to crave wellness from a desperate point of view, not to question 'why me' or ask over and over why there's no cure. Don't dwell in thoughts that can harm you— live in peace, feeling calm and blissful by clearing all thoughts; you attract what you feel after all. Ponder on the idea that others have been able to get better so maybe you can too or, if you have a terminal illness, think of what a great life you've had so far and how grateful you are for the experiences you've had.

I know it can be challenging to get from feeling bad about your illness to suddenly having thoughts of gratitude about it or about life, but you can reach for a better feeling with each thought. After I read the book _Ask and It Is Given_ by Esther and Jerry Hicks, I understood the concept of their emotional guidance scale which provided comfortable steps so we can heighten our vibration one emotion at a time until we get where we need to be. So I made up my own scale. The reason for this is, although the concept is good, some of the 22 baby step emotions I feel can be grouped in a similar base field, and they also didn't include a neutral, none emotion. So I simplified the scale into my Seven Emotional Realms (I like to do things in sevens).

1. LOVE, APPRECIATION, JOY, GLORY, BLISS, MERCY, FREEDOM, ELATION, EMPOWERMENT.

2. PASSION, ENTHUSIASM, GIDDINESS, HAPPINESS, EAGERNESS.

3. OPTIMISM, HOPEFULNESS, SATISFACTION, ENCOURAGED, RELIF.

4. NEUTRAL, EQUILIBRIUM...

(Not thinking and feeling, and therefore creating; just in a state of allowing/going with the flow)

5. PESSIMISM, DISCOURAGED, DISAPPOINTMENT, FED UP, WORRY.

6. HATE, RAGE, ANGER, JEALOUSY, REVENGE, DOUBT, FRUSTRATION, BLAME.

7. FEAR, GREIF, DESPAIR, DEPRESSION, POWERLESSNESS, GUILT, UNWORTHINESS

Or an easier way is to say there are three states of being:

1,2,3= Harmony

4= Balance

5,6,7= Disharmony

The Buddha inspired us to conquer ourselves and our natures by keeping our minds in the present moment and teaching us how to live in a compassionate, wise, joyful and noble manner. He wanted us to create happiness all around us, in every aspect and avenue of our lives and found a way to do so and hoped that by teaching it to others, we could achieve the same liberation. He knew that by having the right view a person could be freed from the realms of suffering and taught us a path in which we could do so, a way for us to "gain" a bright and radiant mind.

Many people think the Buddha just wanted us to be happy and content with nothing, and the fact is he did want us to be satisfied and content with nothing, but not with an added caption "or else you're not a good Buddhist!". Buddhists across the globe have taken this concept to be so; the Buddha himself suffered starvation and loss for a while on his path to find enlightenment, but realised this was the wrong way. What he really wanted was to guide us away from suffering.

The Buddha awakened us to being at peace with nothing, but the nothing he was referring to was an esoteric one. Being at peace with nothing is like being at peace with everything, both what you receive and what you do not receive. Love the hunger and the food. Love the vessel and the empty space inside it. Being at peace with nothing means you can have that feeling of pure, comforting satisfaction anytime you like. This feeling will give you much more joy than anything you could ever get from receiving what you crave, or even desire, that you'll be a radiant magnet for all good things to flow in, and all bad things to dart from you, like you were wearing a repellent coat. His idea of nothing gave such a feeling of inner peace that no 'thing' could ever bring. The feeling you'll find in that nothing, that _void_ , is so distinctive it could reduce you to tears of joy. He wanted us to feel an excitement more passionate than passion, more comforting than real security, more loving than egotistical love, more blissful than euphoria, more satisfying than anything you could ever achieve, desire, or crave all through being in touch with your inner being, your true self.

Having said that, there must also be a balance. I feel that once we realise we can go back to this true feeling and sense of being in times of loss or when life takes us too far in the opposite direction of our true natures, we can also accept and embrace that we came here to experience life and all it has to offer too.

We are spiritual beings, but we are living in physical bodies having physical sensations to experience all that this human life can bring. The food, music, nature and beauty. The sex, textures, and smells of flowers. We came to use all of our senses and find enjoyment in this physical life. If we can do all this whilst simultaneously being at peace with the inner stillness of our souls (which possess nothing) then we have achieved a lot. The Buddha didn't want us to renounce physical life, he tried that as he walked his path to find enlightenment and realised that causing himself suffering didn't work. He wanted us to live with understanding as we use this incarnation to expand. And we can still have a great understanding while also creating art, relationships, achieving goals, protecting the Earth, planting seeds and enjoying everything the Earth has to offer.

I see it as this: when you can feel great without the things you desire, then all good things will fly to you. When you can feel good with nothing, it won't matter when you lose them; you realise only your sense of being matters and therefore can find great things again. The item you want will never satisfy you more than that real feeling which is always inside you, not without. The emotion is so powerful that all bad things will fall from you like melting snow from a warmed mountain. There's no clinging in the void; just the feeling of bliss you embody towards the things you desire.

With meditation and right thought, you can feel that way yourself, without the actual physical thing. It is the feeling you take with you when you die, the sense of total relief, which is what we're all looking for when we "crave". With this pure feeling, any manifestations you're seeking can be found for you, but they won't matter as much as your true sense of being matters. With or without your desires, whatever they may be, if you find the pure feeling of what you suppose they would bring while realising the impermanence of the thing first, they will come... and go... without any attachment. So, even if your desire were to be taken from you, you'd be okay with letting it go, because you would realise that _you_ are the ultimate power, not the things you have. You can give yourself permission to feel good without having the things first, or at all. The desired thing once manifested wouldn't give you as much of a pure feeling as the authentic one you conjured because the actuality of the item comes with many conditions, and is unsatisfactory and impermanent.

**_Here are some additional essential gems from the Buddha..._**

_"They who imagine truth in untruth, and see untruth in truth, never arrive at truth, but follow vain desires."_

_"They who know truth in truth, and untruth in untruth, arrive at truth and follow true desires."_

True desires? He wanted us to have _true_ desires! How liberating! Let's go forth and find those!

Remember the Buddha wanted us to be happy with what is! He didn't want us to crave... craving is suffering. If you can feel the same with or without the things, or how good having your desire would make you feel now, then it will be yours. The Resonation Realm cannot help but get to work, finding you things that will match the frequency of what you're communicating, and there's no reason whatever that your desire shouldn't be yours... unless of course, you desired to harm others. I doubt someone with bad intentions would be reading a spiritual book but, just in case you were wondering what happens to people who have wicked intentions towards others in their thoughtlings, making the Resonation Realm send them ways in which they can carry out those intentions, unpreferable things will happen to them too. You create the universe you want to live in. If you wish to create a world where you can cause harm to others, then that's the kind of world you will create for yourself.

The fact is, for whatever it is we desire, we want the feeling the desired thing would give us. For example, we want to feel free, loved, liberated, happy, content and secure. Sometimes we think that by getting stuff, we will obtain these kinds of joys, but the Buddha knew that just getting 'stuff', whatever that stuff may be, won't do that. It may work for a while, sure, until it is taken or withers away, then we feel worse because of the loss.

How comforting would it be if we could feel brilliant with or without the stuff? Much more than having the sofa or car you want since they are just material objects. Even the love you'd attract won't be repelled by your desperation and would, therefore, last longer. The best kind of love is the one where you still feel free.

All the Buddha wanted was to point to the moon, the moon being the best way to live to cease suffering by seeing the real nature of things. His words were to enable people to see that happiness comes from within, first and always. If you were consistently happy, then how could things not fly to you? Even the things the Buddha didn't want himself (like notoriety and his Dharma to made into a religion) couldn't be kept away with a radiant mind such as his. He just wanted to make people feel content. If having desired things would make you feel content, as long as while not having them you still felt content, then how can that not be part of the Dharma?

Some people think if they don't complain, or don't state out loud what they're not happy with, that the universe will believe they are satisfied with what they've got and not send them any more. They don't appreciate what they've got, in case that's all they'll ever get. They think if they are content, then that will be it forever. This is craving in disguise and inherently wrong— the more content and happy you are, the more you will have to be content and happy about... because physical reality is a mirror - it gives you more of what you feel and think about.

We have all come here with unique gifts, talents, and qualities, and we are growth seeking beings, interconnected, working together and bouncing off of one another. We make the world go round through our interdependence and connection with one another.

Recognise the feeling of pure desire. It's that fresh, eager, delicious feeling— the one filled with excitement at its prospect. Craving has a sense of lack attached to it... it feels heavy. It often comes with a timestamp too. Also, when people are envious of other people getting what they want, it means they are craving those things (or sometimes unconsciously feel unworthy of receiving them) and don't purely desire them.

The Buddha wanted us not to suffer, but he also wanted all beings to be happy, joyful and content. The fact is, he was the one who realised the concept of our thoughts creating things, long before the Law of Attraction made an appearance. This concept and the tools he gave us to create the perfect feelings in our hearts and hence radiate thoughtlings into the cosmos, is more logical than the Law of Attraction, and is so brilliant that he even tells us not to believe his Dharma if it doesn't agree with our own logic!

The Buddha taught that every action by way of body, speech, and mind has karmic results or reactions. He explained that wholesome and unwholesome actions will produce results and effects that correspond with the nature of that action, logically.

Here's some more logic he delved into:

" _All that we are is the result of what we have thought: it is founded in our thoughts; it is made up of our thoughts. If a man speaks or acts with an evil thought, pain follows him, as the wheel follows the foot of the ox that draws the carriage."_

_"All that we are is the result of what we have thought: it is founded in our thoughts; it is made up of our thoughts. If a man speaks or acts with a pure thought, happiness follows him, like a shadow that never leaves him."_

_"One who delights in earnestness, who looks with fear on thoughtlessness, moves about like fire, burning all fetters, small or large."_

_"He is able who thinks he is able!"_

_" The mind is everything. What you think you become."_

_"Those who are free of resentful thoughts surely find peace."_

_"You are your own master; your future lies within you."_

_Heck, Tony Robins could have written that last one!_

Sometimes I think some of these quotes would have been helped if they said "thoughtlings" instead of just thought. It's easy to see that "resentful" thoughts means they have created a bad feeling. When we act out an evil thought, surely it's because we have had feelings that have caused hateful emotions for us to act this way. It's not just about thinking. It's more like the thought in these teachings refers to a form of belief; a belief has feelings attached to the thought intrinsically, creating a thoughtling. A belief can be caused in an instance such as during a shocking event (instant feeling together with the thought) or it can form through thoughts and opinions that have been perpetuated over time, creating attached feelings.

When you begin to understand and believe that everything around you is there because of your thoughtlings, it can be quite liberating. It's good to know that if you can control your thoughtlings as the Dharma teaches us, you can create a great life. It's also good to know that, if you're mindful and living in the moment, appreciating what is, or 'mind empty' as in the state of meditation, you can release all resistance and any negativity that comes from past regrets. You can vibrate higher by releasing bad memories or future worries and desperate cravings. Both techniques can work to tap into the Resonation Realm and manifest you a better life... as long as you learn how to feel right too.

Thoughts do make transmitting vibrations on their own, but it's our hearts that push them outside of ourselves and into the Resonation Realm. Thoughts that are persistent, focussed, or obsessive will become beliefs and turn into thoughtlings on their own. We can purposefully make our hearts feel in preferable ways so we receive better things. How great is it to know that at any time we please we can change our vibration by deliberately thinking better thoughts and conjuring blissful and joyful feelings?

In my book, _Resonation Affirmations: The Declarations Required to Manifest Desires_ , I talk about the Heartmath Institute who have demonstrated beyond a doubt that our heart has a field of energy surrounding it, shaped like a doughnut. It's a measurable field of energy that radiates out 5-8 feet, which they've concluded is the limit of their equipment. They believe it goes on for miles around us, just like the ancient texts tell us.

They can also see how different the frequencies are when we feel love and compassion, compared to hate and fear, and that what we send out in the form of these emotions relaxes or tightens our DNA, which helps us block what we perceive to be negative from being created around us, and, simultaneously, lets us attract with ease all that's flowing towards us to be created in our lives.

We need to make sure they're giving off the right signals, ones that align with our thoughts in ways we wish to see come back to us. We need to make clear, definite lines of communication with the Resonation Realm, or all our efforts will be for nothing.

We can't just think of things while releasing resistance if there's stuff going on in our subconscious we don't know about (unless assisted by guided meditations and mantras with particular frequencies to drown it out) and we can't just try to feel appreciation, love, and joy if our hearts have some underlying fear either. Hearts have their own neurones and know when you're trying to fool them! If these blocks are apparent while we're trying to manifest our desires, it won't matter how hard we try to concentrate our thoughts on a subject or our hearts on happy, joyful, loving feelings that please us. It won't even matter if, as Buddhism teaches us, we try to stop, rise above, and detach from our _unhealthy, attachment-causing_ thoughts and stabilise our unwanted emotions. All of this won't help manifest your desires until you feel at ease about your specific desire under the surface.

The concept of thoughts creating things was supposed to be nothing but liberating and make us feel empowered to know that we can create on purpose. But, due to the Law of Attraction gurus who advocate that _we are the cause of all the bad stuff_ that has happened in our lives, it can also make us fearful and create an aversion to the Law of Attraction. Who wants to believe we've been the cause of our demise thus far, or that when future things go wrong for us, it is because we forgot to think right, especially now that we "know" better? Who wants to panic that our unconscious thoughts are like time bombs, waiting to go off if we forget to remain mindful at all times?

It's helpful for some people to think things happen for a reason, for a higher purpose than just to reflect our thoughts. For example, if you have been in a great state of being all day yet attract a negative person around you, it could be because that person needed your light and inspiration. Or, life sent you a test to see if you are caring and attentive in difficult situations. But again, it can hinder us if we don't know "why" and begin to guess or question the injustice of things and why they were "done" to you. This can lead us to thinking we are at the whims of the universe. Some people still associate this with God or the universe individually picking us out for the perceived bad situation and it can leave us feeling like a victim, rather than a powerful being who came here to experience the Earth and all of its offerings, warts and all.

Another thing that can confuse us is the concept of karma. The idea can be exaggerated with extreme Buddhists, as they think you will come back disabled if you've been evil in a past life. We fear that what we think, say, and do will come back and bite us. Don't get me wrong, science and logic prove that there's a cause and effect for everything, this is logical, but sometimes we receive an impact from some external reason. It's not all our doing, our interconnection has multiple effects on our lives. You didn't cause bad things with your mindless thoughts like you have some magical way of putting a hex on yourself. These concepts must be taken lightly and we must use our logic to navigate our inner and outer reality.

We can only attract things into our life through our thoughts if we have "feelings" and "emotions" about them. Sometimes the world and the people in it disrupt our path; as long as we accept life happens of its own accord sometimes, then we will be fine. If we can find the good in the bad then great, if not, don't worry— the experience itself will help you grow, learn, and toughen up. You can at least feel proud of yourself when you get through your life challenges.

Even the simple saying "like attracts like" can trip us up! This doesn't mean if you have bad things in your life, that you're a bad person. If you have unwanted things in your life, you've not always "created" them or "attracted" them. If you're confused as to why you've attracted something you didn't want, even through a fleeting thought, then you were probably not fully responsible for its creation. You only create unwanted things in your reality if you obsess over something or have focussed thoughts that cause you to have a feeling and an emotion in your heart. This makes your heart bubble expand and permeate that thought into the Resonation Realm.

Whether you have attracted them, or whether they come due to outside circumstances, once they come, it doesn't matter why. The point then is to concentrate on what you would like instead— but make sure you're ready to watch things fall out of your life because sometimes, inevitably, they will. The universe will always match your "like" feelings.

Law of Attraction experts say we can create on purpose with our thoughts because they are like magnets; what we think about, we bring about. But this is not correct — it's what we _feel_ about, we bring about. Persistent thoughts will generally lead to feelings. It's this alchemical process that then acts as an attraction force. The Resonation Realm reflects back to us any similar frequencies we transmit from our thoughts, only as our electromagnetic hearts have pushed them out from us.

Don't let Law of Attraction experts frighten you into believing that the attractive force within you is at work just through your "mindless" thoughts. Yes, we can look around and see all those who've never even heard of the Law of Attraction reaping what they sow. Those who speak most of illness and hate have it, those who talk most of wellness and kindness are surrounded by it, but their thoughts have been laced with either pure feelings and emotions or constant fear as well.

It's healthy to realise you may have created bad things through your chronic fearful thinking, causing unhealthy thoughtlings, and also good to know you've manifested your desires through pure appreciative thinking, causing healthy thoughtlings. This way, you understand whether you're reaping benefits or living with unfortunate circumstances because of your thoughtlings. But you must also realise that sometimes things also happen because of other conditions and circumstances in this life that are outside of our own doing.

Like what, you ask?

Well, we can also get dragged into other people's thoughtlings, their circumstances and events, and even caught up in the Earth's movements and shifts, all of which have nothing to do with our personal thoughts. Sometimes we create and sometimes we just go with the flow of what others have created. Don't be afraid of those random, odd thoughts you have that aren't attached to your true feelings and intentions, or those odd fleeting emotions you have that aren't in line with your true views; those DON'T create your reality, like the Law of Attraction advocates would have you believe.

I wouldn't say events we don't prefer are "random" because we are still interconnected and therefore we are part of a co-creation; but you can think you were just in a wrong or right place as someone else, or the collective, was creating. The sun will still rise in the East, whether we vibrate in particular ways or not. There will still be evil in the world, whether we're good or not.

We came here to create, to live, to choose, but we also came to experience it all, including the serendipity, pain, old age, and death. We came for the lot, the pleasure and the pain, the good and the bad because we knew we would learn, experience, grow and understand... not SO we can learn, experience and grow and understand. Experiencing bad isn't a condition of our coming here, we don't HAVE to go through a certain amount of crap to justify our stay, we just came for it all. So, even though it's good to know we can create, it's also liberating to know that sometimes stuff just happens... it's how we shine our light on the dark times that counts.

When we figure out how to get through what this life can throw at us, we feel proud. When we can help others get through it, help them shine their light in spite of it, we will have truly come here to help others.

**—Manifesting Takeaway—**

We came here to create and experience all life has to offer. If going with the flow has presented you with something you don't prefer, then you can create something you do prefer. To attract whatever it is you want, think about it with nothing but pure love, in a relaxed and serene manner, as if you have it already. Act like you're already content with whatever it is you desire, like it doesn't even matter if it comes or not. Feel how you would feel if you had what you wanted, as excited as you would feel, and don't let any conflicting thoughts or feelings of lack enter your state, no worries about not having it. And so it will be!

# Chapter 2

**The Liberation**

Once we have eliminated religious repression, we need a second investigation into our system to search for other hindering factors in our manifesting efforts, namely, our fears.

Let's start with the easiest; the fear of failure.

**Fear of failure 1**

**What if I'm laughed at, seen as a fake, not good enough, not attractive enough, and criticised anyway - even if I was successful.**

When I was a little girl, I used to say I wanted to be in the TV! Not on it... _in_ it! I wanted to make people smile in all the ways the 'TV people' made me smile. I used to get my best friends to sit in my garden and watch me perform to them, and make some of them join my pop group, even the ones who said 'But, Rinzen, I don't want to sing!' I really couldn't understand how anyone wouldn't want to.

As lonely as it was, I went to acting school, dreaming of becoming an actress. During my time there, I was okay acting in front of people who were there, for the same reason, but I never had the confidence to audition for parts. This was because I was bullied all through school, and believed I was ugly, scruffy, not important, and a person whom people don't choose to be friends with. It didn't matter that Kathy Burke was an idol, I was told I looked like a witch and hated the fact that this may be all I'd be typecast for. I look back at this idiocy now and wish I had the experience in me for when they carried out the casting for the Harry Potter films! If I could go back in time and command that I take myself lightly and play to my strengths instead of living in fear of what people would think, I would certainly do so. In an alternate universe, I'm in the Harry Potter films, I just know it!

Back then, I may have wanted success, but I knew, and therefore believed, that I wasn't tough enough to not give a rat about the haters (I really did, and always had given a rat about what people thought). This held me back time and time again, for years.

I used to sing in an indie band, but would literally poo myself before going on stage. Why? Because I knew people would be looking at me and judging me. I did push myself through years of "feeling the fear and doing it anyway", like the good book of the same title tells us, and I was even able to imagine the nervous energy as it being my soul dancing in response to the fact that I was doing what I came to the Earth to do, but I still ended up choosing to became just a songwriter. Why was I easily able to score deals in Nashville, but the deals the band were offered always had some form of complication tied to the contract? Because, most of the time, we have the wonderful feeling that comes with the thought of succeeding, but we fear something else. And what you resist, persists. I couldn't trick my heart and my true thoughtlings; the Resonation Realm knew it would be easier for me to hide behind the words and music and let someone beautiful and slim sing them.

For this reason, I was confident in thinking I could become a scriptwriter because I wanted my idea of an omnipotent boy coming to Earth to save the afterlife (the concept which has now been weaved into my novels), to be a film. I also thought, and therefore believed, that I couldn't write a novel. This was until I found out scriptwriters wouldn't take me seriously, which lead me to write the books and also led me to the next fear.

**Fear of failure 2**

**What if you try, put 101% into it, and fail?**

I found a lot of self-help books to get me over this one. It's pretty easy to resonate with the logic that no one ever succeeded without first failing. It doesn't matter if you fail; it only matters that you tried. When you try again, it shows the universe that you're persistent, and it will start to listen and give you evidence of what you're focussed on.

I believe with true conviction that you live and learn, and I have certainly discovered my fair share and carried on thus far. I love people who take each failure, and turn it into a lesson and move forward from there, each time getting better and better; it's what has helped me do the same.

As Thomas Edison said on his one thousandth try, "I am not discouraged, because every wrong attempt discarded is another step forward." He also said, "I have not failed one thousand times; I have learned one thousand ways in how not to do it and, when I have found _all_ the ways of how not to do it, I will find the way to do it!" It wasn't long after that, that he did.

I love Will Smith's story of building his father's brick wall, he said he could never have made the full wall, but his father insisted he could lay one brick perfectly, and take one brick at a time until it was done. Once finished his father said to him, "Don't ever say you can't do anything again." What a brilliant upbringing, which turned him into one of the most humble and inspiring actors, and human beings, out there.

Or the saying Tony Robbins likes, "Success is the result of good judgement, good judgement is the result of experience, and experience is the result of bad judgement."

The fear of failure doesn't bother me. I've done all sorts of things I've failed at, learnt something, and moved on from. It's the things you don't do in life that you most regret so I will "try and try again and never give up," as Winston Churchill said!

* * *

**Fear of failure 3**

**What will happen to your belongings, possessions, and family if you're risking yourself financially and fail?**

It's natural to fear losing all your money and belongings if you're investing, risking your assets, or have a family to think about, but are you really risking so much that you'd end up on the streets in your venture? If so, could you not downsize or move to a cheaper area if you failed and still be happy in the end?

I left my husband with one bag! I was 40, no mortgage, no assets, nothing... but I'd never been happier to set off on my new journey.

I didn't care that people would say "I told you so". I also didn't fear shame. I'd already told (or prepared) people when I gambled everything to try the marriage, that I could quickly get a flat if it all went wrong, and that's precisely what I did. I reckon it's the things we didn't do, not the things that we did do, that we will regret most when it comes to our death beds. We have to make mistakes to evolve, learn, and grow. A golf ball flies better through the sky!

* * *

**Fear of failure 4**

**What about your reputation?**

**What will the neighbours say if they see you fail?**

Really, you're not that important! Give them something to gossip about for a day, and then they'll get bored and move on. Who are we trying to impress? Blow them a raspberry and move on! They secretly admire you!

Then there's the fear of success, a more complicated little mistress that needs to be put in her place.

* * *

**Fear of success 1**

**Who am I to be successful?**

Marianne Williamson, in her book, _A Return to Love_ , sums this one up:

_" Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate, our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure, it's our light, not our darkness that most frightens us, we ask ourselves who am I to be brilliant, gorgeous, talented and fabulous? Actually, who are you not to be? You are a child of the universe. Your playing small doesn't serve the world. There is nothing enlightening about shrinking so that other people won't feel insecure around you. We are born to make manifest the glory of the universe that is within us. It's not just in some of us: it is in everyone. And as we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same. And as we are liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically liberates others."_

When I first read these words, they brought tears to my eyes. It seemed to unearth a vast chunk of the negativity debris that I'd been holding deep within, and some false beliefs that weren't meant for me and my empathic mind. The words resonated! They really spoke to me. I _am_ a child of this universe! I was inspired to come here, all the way from my creative star cluster, to breathe freely and abundantly in this bodily form. I came to embrace and express beauty, and be a joyful expression of my true self. I came here to love, sing, paint, write, and dance in this form. And I came here to share all that with others, like the artistic people I appreciate who were liberated enough to inspire in me a wish and desire to do the same, those who showed me I was just as free to be, if I would only liberate myself. It was when an ordained member at my Buddhist centre told me that I was a dancing Dakini (a female embodiment of enlightenment) that I knew Marianne's words were taking effect. And they made me carry on digging further, to the rest of the negativity that lay like a solid stone inside my being.

* * *

**Fear of success 2**

**What if I get what I want and then it's taken away, or something goes wrong, won't I feel worse?**

Examples of this are if you wanted a new partner, but also feared they will not love you for you, or that after you fell in love, they could leave you and break your heart. If you wanted huge success but feared you would lose all your friends through jealousy, or when you moved into a mansion with a swimming pool the wealthy people around you wouldn't like you because you came from poverty and you could end up being shunned. Or you want that new career, but you fear that during your interview they will tell you they want someone more qualified, or when you got the job other workers wouldn't like you.

Those are just a few ways you can confuse the Resonation Realm and counteract your manifesting efforts. When I feel like this about my books, that people won't like them or me, or that they will give me bad reviews, I start to procrastinate because my heart wants to protect itself.

The list of things we want is endless, but the feeling we need inside for all of them to come to us is the same: natural, comfortable, peaceful, at ease— in other words, no conflict inside you about having it. You want it to make you feel only the good feelings it will bring like joy, bliss, comfort, and gratitude. Realise the nature of its reality and stop making it something it's not. Instead of fearing that what you want may go wrong, accept that all things can go wrong anyway and be okay about it.

There is a Chinese Proverb that I love that goes something like...

A farmer named Sāi Wēng lived on the border and raised horses for a living. One day, he lost one of his prized horses. After hearing of the misfortune, his neighbour felt sorry for him and came to comfort him saying "your horse ran away, what terrible luck". But Sāi Wēng said "Maybe so, maybe not. We'll see." And asked, "How could we know it is not a good thing for me?"

After a while, the lost horse returned and with another beautiful horse. The neighbour came over again and congratulated Sāi Wēng on his good fortune saying "your horse has returned, and brought another horse too, what great luck.' . But Sāi Wēng simply said "Maybe so, maybe not. We'll see." Then he asked, "How could we know it is not a bad thing for me?"

One day, his son went out for a ride with the new horse. He was violently thrown from the horse and broke his leg. The neighbours once again expressed their condolences to Sāi Wēng, saying "Your son broke his leg, what terrible luck!" But Sāi Wēng simply said, "Maybe so, maybe not. We'll see." Then asked, "How could we know it is not a good thing for me?"

Some time later, the Emperor's army arrived at the village to recruit all able-bodied men to fight in the war. Because of his injury, Sāi Wēng's son could not go off to war and was spared from certain death. His neighbours once again said "Your boy was spared, what tremendous luck!" And the farmer simply said "Maybe so, maybe not. We'll see."

This story can have so many different meanings for different people but for me it backs up my famous saying: "Good always comes out of bad". It also tells me to never take things for granted and to go with the flow as it all works out in the end. It also gives us hope, knowing that we can just allow without judgement and go with the flow, not grasping not clinging, just trusting and experiencing life as it comes to us.

So, just have a natural, healthy feeling of 'I know my desire will come' in the back of your mind, with only good feeling emotions. This trust-feeling is with us many times for the small things, we believe is our right or doesn't conflict with our other beliefs, and that's why we expect they will happen with no conflict. The big stuff also needs the same trust-feeling, no conflict, and no other thoughts that produce doubt-feelings, other than the ones where you believe you will get it. All will be well, and even if it weren't, you'd be able to handle it. It's as simple yet as tricky as that!

Take, for example, the urban fantasy novels I write under a pen name. When I finally release them at the end of this year, I know I will love for them to become hugely successful, which would give me the income that would enable me to continue doing what I love, writing and creating. I will love it if the novels are picked up by big-time filmmakers, who will (with my persuasion) let me have active involvement in the script writing, casting, and overall say of the film-making process. I dream of all the joys that will bring without conflict now. But, for a long time, I didn't advertise them and eventually took them down because they needed more work, which meant I had to continue being an employed and extremely underpaid support worker. I also didn't want to be 'famous' because of all the negative aspects I perceived came with the role.

For example, growing up, my mum would shout at the TV when she saw a famous person she hated; this gave me fear that if I were famous, or on TV, I would be hated for reasons I couldn't even control.

So my mindset used to be that if I'm rich and famous lots of people will hate me! I used to sit and wonder "how am I ever supposed to succeed when I'm so empathic"? And I'm glad for this kind of questioning because asking yourself questions will always lead you to finding an answer.

Also, back in my "I'm so ugly because people told me I am" days, I couldn't stand having my photo taken. I also felt uneasy about the fact that people would want to interview me, and not just because I knew I'd come across like the naturally daft idiot I am and make a complete fool of myself, I can live with that, but because I didn't want other people to think of me as more important than they are. I believe we are all equal, so the thought of gaining lots of attention or having people around me treating me like I'm something special when I'm as ordinary as anyone else made me feel uncomfortable. Marianne's poem also helped me with this. I am as much light as others —and all I'll be doing is showing them they, too, can embody their light!

One of the worst turn offs for the past insecure version of me was the fact that my books (which are like actual children that I feel I've given birth to and love and cherish with all my heart), will be out there for people to criticise and scrutinise, and basically be torn to shreds if people saw fit. This thoughtling was enough to have me backtracking and procrastinating with my novels for 12 years and picking up as much overtime at my day job as possible. And, as rewarding being a support worker was, I was sometimes hit, pushed, shoved, kicked, pinched, scratched, smacked and bit at that job!

Like I say in my book, _Resonating Affirmations: The Declarations Required to Manifest Desires_ , until the day I could get a strong backbone, talk to myself like I'm my own best friend and believe that I've done everything I could to make these novels the best read for people, then I'd be in the same situation. I'm glad to now be in a place where this backbone is beginning to form. I make myself sit straight and feel the confidence each time I achieve a new draft. And I state "these novels have had more time and effort put into them than any other novels on the planet'. This makes me feel like I've done all I can so if it turns out not to be good enough, then I can at least bless my heart for the effort.

I also think our conscious brains feel that if we concentrate and dwell on the bad then you can somehow help prepare yourself for it. Maybe in this sense, it's logical to do so. But we can ponder on a way we could handle a bad situation if it happened and then move on. Don't continue to think of it until it causes emotions, otherwise your heart and subconscious mind will try to protect you each time you think of what you want. This happens because you've attached a fear to it and, as a result, your DNA will tighten so it will be harder for you to let your desire in. That's a good thing in the case in which you've allowed the thoughtling to bring you both the thing you wanted with the thing you feared. This is the dilemma we have to actively try to correct because whatever it is you're not manifesting has to be because of some conflict or resistance within you. The desire to act and people laughing at me or thinking I wasn't good enough was my mixed conflict for years, making sure I never got myself an agent until I woke up, realised life was too short, got myself an agent, had a photoshoot, and immediately got a call for Coronation Street! They loved me and I loved every minute of it.

Our hearts need to believe our minds; there can't be any doubts. The feeling must be pure and clear. I can now take myself lightly. I understand there are hateful people out there who want to criticise you no matter what. I know now that it's more about them than about you. I also love the saying, "If you're not both loved and hated, then you're not anything". I understand that some people won't give you a five-star rating even if you've helped them. Also, I don't have to know why so I can change them; I have to change me and my response to it.

It took a lot of work to get me to this place, talking to myself like I was my own best friend, telling myself off, telling myself not to be scared, to go for it, that I deserved it after my 12 years of hard work. We have to remind ourselves that we're strong, that we've handled so much in life. We have to tell ourselves we are tough enough to handle anything, even being successful.

I simply reminded myself I could deal with haters who didn't have a clue how much time and effort I'd put into the novels to get them as good as they can be. We all have a capacity for strength that is well beyond what we have been taught to believe in, and our awakening relies on our knowledge of how to tap into it.

People like to be critics and that's okay! They don't have to take into consideration the fact that I chose not to go on holiday for 10 years so I could afford to take every course out there so readers could get the best experience when reading the novels as I could produce.

People don't have to know that you have a good, charitable heart or that you would make such a lovely difference in the world if a position of power ever came to you if _you_ know you've tried your best. You don't have to let dream squashers bother you! Good, kind, decent, wise people, people who know and see the real you will always wish you well.

And I can, without being big headed, believe all that... because I know it's all true! Therefore, it resonates! It took years of work to get me to this point but sometimes our journeys unfold at a slower pace than we expect them to and that's okay. As I claimed my inner power, I wanted to share it with the world and empower others... that's when I told the Resonation Realm I wanted to write these books and it lined up the means for me to give up work to do so. I followed my heart to write these books because I believe humanity needs guidance and insight into their power. And I'm giving it my best because the process of it gives me joy, not because I expect a certain type of acclaim.

**I can even turn to quotes from the Dhammapada (the verses made from the spoken words from the Buddha during his journey to enlightenment) that help ground me:**

_" If a man's thoughts are not dissipated, if his mind is not perplexed, if he has ceased to think of good or evil, then there is no fear for him while he is watchful."_

_" As a solid rock is not shaken by the wind, wise people falter not amidst blame or praise. Wise people, after they have listened to the laws, become serene, like a deep smooth, and still lake."_

_" Good men indeed walk warily under all circumstances: good men speak not out of the desire for sensual gratification: whether touched by happiness or sorrow, wise people never appear elated or depressed."_

Once I knew and understood all this, the conflict inside me shifted. I now understand that when I'm in my happy, visualising land, and I imagine my novels making it big and a filmmaker wanting to make use of them (one who doesn't mind me having a cameo part in and being actively involved with the music and casting side of things), I should only feel the bliss of it. Because one thing I do know about the fame game is that if I do end up with any of the bad, I'll at least be able to afford the counselling!

My eldest son helped me too, as he usually does with his brilliant mind. He said "fame is just a word, just a thing, just an inevitability of success. It is neither good nor bad, it just is and it's just a word."

From my son's point of view, and from a Buddhist point of view, fame can just be fame, neither good nor bad, just a consequence of success and hard work and dedication, nothing to feel proud of and nothing to be feared, it just is. It's what emotion you put to a word that makes it become something other than what it is; you can make your own reality of anything. I can make my own idea of fame. If I simply concentrate on self -worth, self-value, and self-love, if I shine my light and pay no mind to the criticism or judgement of others, I will be fine.

We should be centred in ourselves and thus need no validation from the external world or opinion of others. If some people find my novels entertaining and some find my spiritual books useful then I've done something right. And I can again let a quote from the Buddha help me.

_" Let him admonish, let him teach, let him forbid what is improper! He will be beloved of the good: by the bad, he will be hated._"

Like Abraham Lincoln said " _You can't please all the people all of the time_." And no one ever has. Some of my most admired and favourite people have been slated. It's just life, the nature of things, and some things are unsatisfactory.

I like Missy Elliot's line in one of her songs ' _I'm least hated by the haters_!' She says it like she is so proud that just a few hate her. It just goes to show what having a great perspective can do.

This helped me practice a light-hearted feeling towards what I once feared would come, and gave me a way of knowing that I would be fine if that situation arrived. It also helped me concentrate on the preferable thoughtling that most people on the planet are kind and supportive and wish people well, so now I know that anything like what I feared will be so few and far between that it won't matter. I'm going to create my own spiritual practice, have my own view of the moon. I hope you can too, we're interconnected after all.

Who wants friends who would end up jealous of you anyway? Or neighbours who shun you? Move to the country and have none! Who cares about hateful people who will hate on you when you've provided value to others?

If I've helped anyone, if one person out of every hundred finds what I've done useful and informative, then that's great. The rest can find something helpful elsewhere. There are many teachers out there saying pretty much the same thing, but we naturally take to one person over another for all sorts of reasons. Someone may take to me and my spin on things and find it helpful and be able to manifest quicker than possible using my formula, others may prefer to believe the Law of Attractions positive and negative sides, and that's fine too. Even if you find what you don't want, it will help you find what you do so you can concentrate more on that. Thus, I will have even inadvertently helped the people who don't like me if I want to see it that way!

* * *

**—Manifesting Takeaway—**

You must feel the love of success and only love for you to attract it. Ignore the fears, they've not happened, and if they did, you'd be okay. Think about it, haven't you always gotten through everything life has ever dealt you? Of course you have, or you wouldn't be here, stronger than before and willing to learn and grow more. It's natural to think of everything possible that could go wrong so that you can prepare for it in your mind. But then, once you've weighed up possible outcomes and how you would handle them, quickly release the counteractive feeling and let your heart know you'll be fine if that happened and move on.

Don't let fear stop you for any reason. Your playing small and worrying doesn't help anybody. Dig out your concerns, chuck them over your shoulder, and move on. Be your own best friend! Inspire others to do the same. Feel only the love or go with the flow.

Ask yourself questions when what you're trying to manifest isn't coming. "What's in my system that's blocking my desire from coming?" You will always be given an answer.

Listen to your heart— does it expand or shrink? The answer will always come. Then rinse and repeat. "What conflict is going on inside me? What are my true feelings towards this wanted desire?" Be mindful of what work you need to do to get your heart to relax, stop thinking of the bad that comes with the good and this way you can tune yourself to allowing the good to come through.

# Chapter 3

**The Freedom**

Once we have rid our system of religious repression and confusion, fear of success and failure, we must try to be aware and do all we can to eliminate all other remaining malware embedded in the synapses of our system, ones that stem from our subconscious minds. We have to thank and appreciate our subconscious mind for being so clever that it can breathe for us so we don't have to remember to do so, but it also likes to help us out with many things in which we don't need its intervention. Once it has learned something, whether that is true or false, it will hardwire what we've learned into the synapses of our brains, making new connections that allow us to form habits so that we don't have to use our conscious mind with those things. These are the programs that were wired into us when we weren't paying full attention and were running on auto pilot, namely in our undervaluing ourselves, our beliefs, our upbringing, and our environments.

**So, when do we, and why do we, undervalue ourselves?**

Another blockage I found was the fact that charging for things has always been troublesome for me. I'm a hairdresser by trade, and always felt uncomfortable when someone asked: "How much do I owe you?" I always give discounts and freebies, which undervalued my abilities. I have my level 1 and 2, which is what you need to work anywhere. And level 3 from the Wella Hair Institute so I could work in Vidal Sassoon if I wanted. I also have my Afro Caribbean qualification. Yet, when my customers wanted their hair done "properly", they went and paid top dollar in places that haven't had as much training as I have. They soon realised I "somehow" and "strangely" cut their hair right, but they still went back to other salons. Why? Because people like to feel they have bought something of value, not had something done on the cheap. Even realising this, I couldn't seem to bring myself to charge what's classed as the norm; I like to do people favours.

Yet, for some reason, I would feel comfortable taking a huge, six-figure film deal from filmmakers. Maybe because I know they can afford it and will be making more money from me than they paid me for my idea and hard work, so it would be a fair deal. Also because I could do so much good with that much money, for all those around me and beyond, I can imagine getting a high paying film deal with no irksome feeling inside me for the money or for the active involvement I'd ask for. I just have the pure, exciting feeling it would bring. It's just all the rest before that I needed help with because I also knew to get that film deal my books would have to be hugely successful first, which would initiate all the other fears.

Is there some way you undervalue yourself? Do you put your partner's needs before your own? Do your friends demand too much from you yet you can't demand anything from others because you feel that would make you seem selfish? Do you realise that it's okay to be selfish and that a certain type of selfishness is really just self-love? I actually don't use the word selfish anymore when I say no, or explain I have got to get back to what I was doing for myself, towards my goals, ambitions, and dreams. Instead, I use the word self-love. This means we can and should wrap ourselves up and nurture our own needs, because we all need someone to be this kind to ourselves, especially since others cannot tend to our needs the way that we can.

You have to believe you are worth it! You can't truly make others happy until you're happy yourself, which leads me into the second thing to look for.

**And, what about our beliefs?**

We must also ask ourselves what we truly believe. The Law of Attraction teachers are right to place much emphasis on beliefs because they _matter,_ i.e. turn energy into matter! Beliefs are ingrained inside us so deeply that our subconscious can manifest things even while our conscious mind tries to force in new thoughtlings because a deeply rooted belief has many feelings already attached to it. A belief is a thought with intrinsic emotions attracted so, even if you thought about it or spoke about it briefly, the thing you believe would radiate out and penetrate the Resonation Realm, and what you've communicated will begin to manifest into your reality.

A belief can be both beneficial and detrimental regardless of whether it's true or false. That's why I state that we must "resonate" with what we're thinking, speaking, and doing for us to tap into the Resonation Realm with what we'd prefer to get back.

Take placebos for instance. If you don't already know, a placebo is an ineffectual treatment for a disease or other medical condition that is intended to deceive the recipient. Sometimes patients given a placebo treatment will have an actual improvement in a medical condition, a phenomenon commonly called the placebo effect or placebo response. The placebo effect is related to the perceptions and expectations of the patient; if the substance is viewed as helpful, it can heal, but if it is considered to be harmful, it can cause adverse effects, which is known as the nocebo effect.

In 1985, Irving Kirsch hypothesised that the effects are produced by what the persons' expectancies, such as the belief that one will feel different, leads a person to feeling different. According to this theory, the notion that one has received an active treatment can produce subjective changes thought to be provided by the real cure. Those that thought it would work displayed stronger placebo effects than those that didn't. Also, a placebo presented as a stimulant will have an impact on heart rhythm and blood pressure, but when administered as a depressant, it will have the opposite effect. Perceived performance-enhancing drugs can increase endurance, speed, and weight-lifting ability, even leading to the question of whether placebos should be allowed in competitive sports.

Even just the matter of visualising rather than doing has stronger effects. There was a study done on basketball players in America with two teams. One physically practised every day, trying to get the ball in the net; the others sat and imagined, or visualised, the ball going in the net. Guess who won? The ones who envisioned it, of course. They saw the ball going in each time, therefore had more feelings of winning!

So, placebos show us what your brain can do on its own. Placebos are also dependent upon perception and expectation. Various factors that change the perception can increase the magnitude of the placebo response. For example, studies have found that the colour and size of the placebo pill makes a difference, with "hot-coloured" pills working better as stimulants while "cool-coloured" pills work better as depressants. Capsules rather than tablets seem to be more effective and size can make a difference as well. One researcher has found that big pills increase the effect while another has argued that the effect is dependent upon cultural background.

In the opposite effect, a patient who disbelieves in a treatment may experience a worsening of symptoms. This effect, the nocebo, can be measured in the same way as the placebo effect. When members of a controlled group receiving an inert substance report worsening symptoms, the recipients of this substance may nullify the placebo effect intended by merely having a negative attitude towards the effectiveness of the content prescribed, which often leads to the nocebo effect. This is not caused by the substance but by other factors, such as the patient's mentality towards their ability to get well, or even purely coincidental worsening of symptoms.

So if studies prove beliefs affect you whether they are true or not, how can we get ourselves to believe in what we want rather than what we don't?

We need to create real, beneficial, resonating truths within us so that we can have genuine faith that what we're doing will work. Jesus said that if we have faith, even a small as a mustard seed, we can say to the mountain "move" and it will move! To have this kind of faith, we have to make sure there's no conflict within us.

Make sure there are no deep rooted and therefore more powerful beliefs left inside your mind. The subconscious has to agree. You'll know the difference yourself when someone explains something to you and even though your mind can sort of 'get it', something else inside you is saying "Hmmm, really?" You not only have your subconscious fighting against what you want to believe because of its history of being proved otherwise (even if you can rationally see it's correct), you also have your ego trying to fight "new beliefs" and protect itself from proving itself wrong. All aspects of you have to be in line.

The psychologist, Abraham Maslow, told a great story about the power of beliefs. He said a patient had no regard for himself because he believed he was a corpse, and his psychiatrist spent many sessions trying to convince him he wasn't a corpse. Finally, one day, the psychiatrist asked the patient if corpses bled. The patient was adamant. "Corpses don't bleed," he insisted, "all their bodily functions have stopped." The psychiatrist then persuaded the patient to partake in an experiment where he would prick his hand with a needle to see if it bled. Sure enough, as the needle pierced his skin, he began to bleed. With a look of amazement, the patient said: "Well, I'll be darned... corpses _do_ bleed!"

A belief is nothing more than what you think and feel about a certain thing, and you can change that at any time you wish.

The placebo effect proves what the power of our thoughts can do. It's actually our own mind that heals us. In fact, when the experiment was carried out, the ones with the placebo, and not the ones taking the medication, improved faster. I've heard of healers who can shrink tumours into nothing and I have watched scientific studies show that thought, energy, and matter are not separate. Just go and watch some quantum physics videos on YouTube; the observer effect is an excellent place to start. (I go into more detail about quantum particles and energy in my book Resonating Mantras: Make The Universe Dance To Your Chant.)

**Once we've looked at our beliefs, we must look back at our upbringing.**

There are lots of things that happen to us as children that can affect us and stay with us for life unless we get in there, find them, deal with them, dig them out and evict them from our system. Lots of habits are neurologically wired into our brains, including lots of negative input that doesn't serve us and that is still affecting us in some way. There are major ones we can get counselling for and there are other subtle ones we don't realise.

For instance, I know my weight problem is partially due to being told regularly "you can't waste food, don't you know there are starving people in the world?"... even if the adults around me piled my plate up too much! Overeating was something I had to do out of respect. So, just like the "if I'm famous people will naturally hate me" thoughtling I obtained, I also felt that if I scraped food in the bin, I'm disrespecting starving people. Bonkers!

I've read lots of self-help and spiritual books, listened to motivational speakers to overcome the brainwashing I knew about and could label, but I could still feel other blocks, laying underneath waiting to call me out each time my mind drifted or was taken by other priorities. This still happens now with this one last ingrained habit of mine that I'm battling with each week. I'm forever asking myself and challenging myself to ponder:

1. Does this weight serve me in any way?

2. Does it make me feel like the national average so I can say "look, I'm still as average as you" when I'm super successful and therefore my friends won't think I'm superwoman... the only way to stay small in fat form?

3. Does it make me feel grounded so I won't fly too high?

4. Does it make me look like I'm a bundle of fun, even though I'm serious about my career? Fat women are all fun, aren't they? Bonkers!

You can see me battle these habits and mind on my weekly Resonation blog on my website spiritualjoye.com if you're interested.

I was also told by my mother, because she no doubt believed it was true, that I shouldn't study drama at collage as I wasn't going to make a living from that and I should, instead, pick a career to fall back on first, and try for drama in my spare time. My mother was a single parent with two mouths to feed and three jobs. My job was to clean the house and look after my sister while she managed these three jobs to bring in the money, which was always tight. She somehow, even though she had a "career" of being a secretary during the day but still had to find two more jobs alongside this career in the evening, convinced me to go for hairdressing instead of drama, and go to a theatre workshop in my spare time (until a boyfriend convinced me to spend that time in the evenings with him instead.)

If only you could go back and slap your daft self?

It wouldn't have made a difference though. The school system was exactly the same. I'm sure the career advisers were all took to one side by the government at one point and told "make them all believe that they need to stay in the rat-race and that they need to pick a career from this specific list. Anyone suggesting anything outside this list should be scowled at". I'm also sure they employed only the people who had the thickest eyebrows, so they could make sure it was more of a dramatic frown as they looked over their glasses at you with a confused mock smirk when you suggested anything other than what was on that list.

"Where's the option to be an entrepreneur, sir"?

"Oh, no, that's too risky! There's only enough room for so many of those in the world, and you can't gamble that you'll be one of them".

And, at just the right impressionable age for us to be considering our "options", the lie drifted easily into our belief system. This lie went from a subtle fear to a simple belief that was hardwired into us forever.

Until we realised there were more options out there, that is. But even then, as we look at the people who were doing it, we can still believe they are the elite, the rare few, the lucky ones or the ones who have a knack for it.

We have to _know_ that our initial feelings were right, that we can be, do, or have any job we like. There are plenty of people working for themselves, doing what they love, living free and independent from the hourly wage and instead earning when the universe provides. And we can do this too!

**Then there's our environment, of course**

We need to surround ourselves with beautiful, inspiring things that remind us of our light and our power and intentions. Anything that doesn't do this has to go, including the people in our lives!

This is a hard topic and a tough wake up call for some people because our hearts may shrink, our DNA may tighten, but we still know that this is true. The reason your heart is trying to protect you is because it will hurt to cut people loose, those who have helped you grow, even if indirectly, but go they must, if you can be strong enough to do it. Obviously we can't get rid of family and we can't avoid who we have to work with if we're choosing to stay in the rat-race or let clients we don't resonate with return out of necessity — but we should definitely make a conscious effort to see what we _can_ eliminate, hence what we can live with, what won't be so painful after all. Please remove the toxic, energy draining, unsupportive, dream squashers, and passive aggressive people that you can out of your life, and replace them with new uplifting and encouraging friends if you have to. Find friends who are like you, who have things in common and shared interests with you, people who help you feel validated, appreciated, and worthy!

You know who the toxic people are. If it's your partner, this can be the worst to admit because you may lose more than your partner; you may lose the house, the status, and joint friends, but if your logic knows this is right, even if your heart shrinks with fear for the rest of the loss, you need to tell your heart you're strong enough until you feel it expand enough to believe you.

After I split from the father of my kids, who I was with for 17 years, I was on my own purposefully for four years, one, so I knew I could be and two, because I didn't want my kids to see me with anyone else, like I had to with my mum.

It took a hell of a lot of toxic years to separate from this relationship because he was the father of my kids and I wanted to make it work, in spite of myself. I made many other reasons and excuses that prolonged the pain and unhappiness. In the end, after I decided that I'd rather be lonely on my own than feel lonely when I was in a partnership, I made a pact that I would never put up with anything remotely unhealthy again.

It was only when my son told me I was abnormal and to "get a life" that I felt it was okay to date again.

After manifesting the "friendly man" who was "care free" (another word for a scruff who didn't tidy up after himself) which I wanted at the time, I then manifested a "clean and tidy man" who was "fun" (who turned out to be Mr obsessive compulsive disorder with a drink problem). After three months we were living together, after a year married, totally swept of my feet and then he began to cause argument after argument and pick holes out of me and question everything I did, he caused an argument one day about me not buying him meat, yet he always bought me vegetarian food, and said "you need someone from the Buddhist centre, you!' And, I smiled, thanked the universe for the answer I was looking for and said "You know what, you're right!'

I found my soulmate in two days! Three and a half years later (longer than my then- husband and I lasted) my current relationship is still fantastic. Once I decided to find a spiritual man, one who was positive and supportive like me, my life totally changed. Sometimes we have to let go of what we know and embrace what we feel would be better.

Once you know how positive and negative influences affect you and the world around you, you can't afford to let yourself be around negative people. In my book _Resonating Meditations: Attract Something While You Do Nothing_ , I mention how, during an experiment by a group of meditators in an area affected 1% of the population. There's also another experiment that suggests it only takes a few positive individuals to affect quite a few dozen negative ones. It also suggests that positive people have the same impact on negativity in the world in general, while it takes a lot more negative people to have negative impacts on the world.

This has to make us wonder if maybe this is also due to the contraction and expansion of DNA in our bodies during our positive and negative emotions. Positive emotion is plus—togetherness, inclusivity, cohesiveness. Negative is minus— separation, exclusivity, the taking away of something. The phrase "better together" makes perfect sense then!

We need positivity in our lives any way we can. If we can't rid ourselves of all the negative and toxic people in our lives, just make sure you're surrounding yourself with more positive ones and in the meantime pouring as much of our positivity and light on the negative people to counteract their influence. Sending kindness and love out of you will always come back to you, just as a tide comes back to the shore. What goes out always comes back in. The more you send out, the faster it will come back, like a swing.

You can also protect yourself with a Reiki bubble so negativity bounces off of you and you can also blow out your soul, your light and love into the negative person and visualise it cleansing and healing them, which can neutralise their negative energy. You can also remind people that they're usually lovely or kind or anything that reminds them they can be in preferable states. And sometimes when we change the way we look at things, the things we look at change! Tell them they're good, see them as so and they might reflect this back to you.

We can also cleanse the areas where these people are with rituals such as pagan blessings, opening all the windows and doors to let out stagnant air and negativity, burning sage, and placing salt in the corners of rooms to name a few.

You should also surround yourself with beautiful symbols. Art, flowers, spiritual artefacts and imagery remind us to stay positive, no matter what negativity surrounds us.

I focus a lot on the energy of my inner and outer surroundings. For example, I take into consideration the principles of the ancient Chinese art of Feng Shui when placing my furniture and choosing my décor. Obviously, it's not possible to always have a beautifully situated house halfway up a hill facing the sun, but you can create the best flow of energy in your home with what you have.

I also have crystals in every room, which I call my "resonating rocks". I charge them with Reiki energy and let them heal my past, present, and future. They can also influence negative people around them and suddenly transform or have a big impact on their attitude.

I believe in the strength and energy of crystals and have created many talismans for myself; granted they may not contain the magical powers of light that I describe in my novels, but I believe they have healing powers nonetheless. Each crystal has unique properties and therefore gives out different energies and healing powers of their own, which makes my frequency for specific goals even higher.

I don't watch the news, I don't read newspapers; I only watch what I want to see more of and what I want to learn. I no longer keep old things; there's something about order and tidiness that makes us feel calm and clear, like if our things are in order then we are in order. How many old books have you got that you'll never read again? How many clothes are cluttering your wardrobe? We only use about 20% of them. If you stood outside of your home and someone said you could only keep inside that home everything you can name, how much of it could you name? And how much of what you would lose because you forgot to name it would you be upset about forgetting, and hence loosing, once you were back inside the home?

Have in your home only things that lift you up and the things that would be too painful to get rid of. Pick up an item and say to yourself "how would I feel if I no longer had this item? How good would it make me feel to give it to charity? How good would it feel knowing that what I give out comes back? If your heart expands give it away, if it shrinks, put it in a box for another day.

Here's a ritualistic poem I chant when I'm getting rid of stuff that no longer serves me:

**Clearing clutter of all non-serving kinds**

**Leads to clarity of heart and mind**

**Out with the old and in with the new**

**Creates a serenity inside of you.**

Our conscious minds must play an effort in trying to overcome the negative input we've experienced and come to believe over the years, so the subconscious doesn't take over. If you learn something for one hour, you double the connections in the mutual pathways, but if you don't review the new information, keep up with it and repeat it, you will revert back to that old conditioning. We need to maintain and keep up the learning, keep asking questions, keep an eye on our surroundings and influences and overrule our subconscious habits once and for all.

I call it Maintenance. Now you've given your system a reboot, now the anti-malware has done it's work, keep it up. Life is too short to have the oil in your engine running on anything but premium! We need to make sure we're operating from a system that's filled with nothing but light and love.

* * *

**—Manifesting Takeaway—**

We need to make sure our surroundings are benefiting us!

Stay conscious of your surroundings, environment and influences, and cleanse negativity regularly with rituals and Reiki so that the malware doesn't sneak back into the pathway it once made, because it will run on auto pilot when you're not aware.

If you find it hard to say no, going to a Reiki practitioner to heal your throat chakra will help, as well as getting the rest of your chakras in alignment too. Treat yourself! Do some yoga, get a gong bath, anything that stretches your scrunchy system and bashes out old blockages.

The fabric of this universe is responding to your vibration, and you can easily change your vibration by cleansing your system. You must focus, keep asking yourself questions, keep looking for those wired-in, negative influences, eliminate all subconscious crap we're unaware of and set ourselves free once and for all.

For you to attract something with ease, there cannot be any conflicting thoughts and feelings. If your heart feels two opposing things when you think of your desire, the mirrors will keep spinning and spinning and not be able to find a likely match, or it will bring you the mixture you're feeling will come, but don't want. You must only feel one thing to make it easy and pure. Focus on a good thing. If you think of something you don't want and have an attached fear with it, don't panic. This happens every now and then. Thankfully for us, the emotion of fear makes sure the strands of our DNA tighten so that what we're feeling doesn't manifest right away, meaning you'd have to persist in this line of thinking and feeling to manifest it.

A thought planted in the brain and spoken about with feeling will take root in the heart, which sets off the electromagnetic fields surrounding it. This then supercharges the transmitting neurones of the brain, setting in motion a clear line of communication with the Resonation Realm, which will bring us more of the same things to feel. We literally tap into and shop for with our minds, whatever we feel, just how we would type keywords into a search engine and the internet brings up many ideas for us to browse. Our very own net will bring us evidence of what we've tapped in.

Make sure you know what signal you're sending out when you're focussing. If things are going well, then focus on those things as they will cause the well-being to continue, but if things are not going well, you need to take your attention away from those unwanted things. Detect all underlying factors that contradict your wish and work on clearing your vibration by calming your mind, accepting and appreciating and loving what is, changing your beliefs to become like a peaceful, wise, smiling Buddha, no matter what your circumstances.

Set your home surroundings to create a better flow and scatter a few crystals around, which will be of most benefit to you. If you do Reiki, imbue them with your healing ability. When you focus upon beautiful surroundings, you lift, invoking a feeling of appreciation. Appreciation is the presence of everything that feels good and is at the top of mySeven Emotional Realms list, the best place to be to manifest desires.

There are three more tools for us once we have done this, tools provided by ancient civilisations across the globe for many years, tools that we Westerners have come to understand and appreciate today: affirmations, meditations, and mantras. Synchronistically, they are also the topics of my next three books! _Resonating Affirmations, Resonating Meditations_ and _Resonating Mantras_ , all of which will help you instal new software that helps you manifest like a pro. I like to tweak these gifts so they resonate in ways we can get to grips with today and use them with special music that unwinds the tight strands of our DNA.

For now, remember, once you've ridden yourself of all the negativity and contradicting forces within you, you must think of your desire with a loving, joyful, elated, appreciative feeling inside you that all is well to be able to let in what you desire. It's your feelings that matter. It's your feelings that bring you or stop you from getting what you want. If possible, find a way to feel even better than what having your desire would make you feel.

And one last thing to ponder... how great would it be if the world's high achievers, those in power, those who make decisions for us, were mindful, spiritual people?

So, let us be.

# Note from the author

Thank you for purchasing Resonating System. I hope the information has been as useful to you as it has been for me. I hope I've unlocked something inside you that stops you from manifesting your desires and that it has helped you to enter the Resonation Realm.

If you feel you still have "other" issues inside you that this book was unable to uncover, then I suggest hypnotic regression therapy, which has been successful in digging into to places we've completely forgotten about but are still playing their part on our system nonetheless.

And, if you suffer with anxiety or depression, you may need to seek counselling to overcome these issues. Anxiety and depression is a complex subject but, having gone through it myself and having worked with people with a full range of mental illnesses, I'm sure I can help soothe most of your issues. If the anxiety and depression is mild to moderate, then my skills may be all you need to help you think clearly and help you sleep at night and to keep your system operating in alignment with the Resonation Realm, alongside your usual medication and therapy.

Once you have cleared away limiting thoughts, you will be ready for the next books in my Resonation Realm series which aim to take ancient spiritual knowledge and make it work for us in ways we can understand today. Resonating Affirmations: The Declarations Required To Manifest Desires, Resonating Meditations: Attract Something While You Do Nothing and Resonating Mantras: Make The Universe Dance To Your Chant. The three books give you wise tools to aid your entry into the Resonation Realm, which will turn you into a manifesting genie.

If you are interested to know more about the tools, there are lots of free resources on my website you can benefit from, including some of my Resonating Meditations and Resonating Mantras. The reason I give a lot away on my website is so everyone can benefit, and in the hopes that, just like this free eBook may entice you to buy the next books in the series, once you see that the free tools are of immense benefit, you may like to purchase the more in-depth, premium Resonating MP3s at a later date. I have lots more valuable products on my website for people who wish to delve deeper.

And, if you haven't downloaded it already, don't forget to grab your free gift!

My Resonating Affirmations MP3 has 49 Declarations Required To Manifest Your Desires, which have been designed in a way to resonate with what you can already believe so you can quickly get into alignment with universal forces. Also, the unique music is imbued with specific frequencies, designed to open your heart, and release the tight strands of your DNA, hence helping you attract faster than ever. And, at the moment, when you download the MP3, you will automatically be entered into my killer comp to win prizes worth £1949!

In the vein of staying transparent, I will state that I am giving you this MP3 so I can stay connected with you via email. But please rest assured, I will only email you when I have interesting and helpful things that will assist _you_ in tapping into the Resonation Realm and hence help you manifest all your dreams. I will class you as a friend once you are on my Resonation Realm Readers list. I'm devoted to my quest to find the real magical gifts of this universe and how they can benefit our lives today, and only wish to share with you all the best ways that we can vibrate higher so we can attract all we want in life. And, I will always remain honoured and respectful of your privacy while sharing this journey with you.

Hopefully, this book has awakened something inside you so bright it will dispel those deep fears, allowing the lotus flower to open inside your heart, freeing whatever debris has gathered inside so that you can start to see results.

I hope you find everything you want and more, and hope you're just as happy even if they don't come... therefore they will. I hope you strive to be mindful at all times about what you are doing, saying and thinking and live in the now as often as possible.

I would love to spread the Resonation Realm message around the world, even hold Resonation Realm retreats where all fans and advocates could meet all up and send out positivity signals into the aether, so we can heal the world and simultaneously get back the same love we put in. I'd love these retreats to be in beautiful locations all over the world, with like-minded people who want to embrace meditation, mantra, Reiki, yoga, gong baths, art, poetry, dance, and in the evening we could sing songs by a camp fire under the stars, or have silent time, where we can share ethical, healthy (resonating) foods and discussions, and where, after we'd finished, we would leave with a higher vibration and radiating positivity, wherever we went — like it was infectious.

I believe if just 1% of the population attended these events, and sent light and love into the universe, a spiritual shift would occur on the whole planet. (I explain more about the Mashurachi effect in my book _Resonating Meditations; Attract Something While You do Nothing_.) I believe, if the whole world knew how to use their power, then our planet could heal better and it would be a more beautiful place to exist in. If you would like to help these places manifest into our world, I have a donation page on my website. All those who donate will have their name carved into a Reiki imbued art wall at each centre.

And, if you can't help via a donation right now, but enjoyed the book and would like to help in a way that is free to you but extremely valuable to me, I would really appreciate you leaving me a review. Some people won't buy a book without validation from others so your review will not only help spread the love and light so that others may find the information, but also help me as an author, which will help all I envision to come into fruition. My success will enable me to give to more to the charity "Mind" too, so you will certainly be a great help to make a happier, healthier, and more positive planet for us all.

If you need any more help to stay in alignment with the universe, I have 2 premium Resonating Affirmation packages for Love and Money (the most popular topics) on offer at the moment.

I also have 1-1 services if you're interested. I want to help keep you vibrating at a high level no matter what funk you're in and teach people how to use my tools. My mission is to do my best to help you manifest your dreams.

You can find everything I've mentioned above and more on the menu bar at my website spiritualjoye.com

And, if we don't stay connected after this book, I would like to bid you a good farewell, and wish you the best health, spiritual growth and happiness this life could possibly bring you in this life and beyond. I genuinely wish you much abundance and lots of love around you. Peace and everlasting joy. And above all, a powerful, attracting mind. There's so much out there for you to manifest and it is waiting for you as much as you are waiting for it. Just appreciate and feel it now, for then, as we know, it is yours!

Blessings, Rinzen x
