
Romans Revisited

Copyright 2015 Darryl Barton

Published by Darryl Barton at Smashwords

"Scripture taken from the NEW AMERICAN STANDARD BIBLE®,  
©Copyright 1960, 1962, 1963, 1968, 1971, 1972, 1973, 1975, 1977, 1995 by The Lockman Foundation  
Used by permission." www.Lockman.org

Smashwords Edition License Notes

This eBook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This eBook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your enjoyment only, then please return to Smashwords.com or your favorite retailer and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author. 
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Foreword

Romans - Overview Outline

Romans 1:1-7

Romans 1:8-17

Romans 1:18-32

Romans 2:1-11

Romans 2:12-29

Romans 3:1-20

Romans 3:21-31

Romans 4:1-8

Romans 4:9-25

Romans 5:1-11

Romans 5:12-21

Romans 6:1-14

Romans 6:15-7:6

Romans 7:7-12

Romans 7:13-25

Romans 8:1-13

Romans 8:14-30

Romans 8:31-39

Romans 9:1-5

Romans 9:6-13

Romans 9:14-33

Romans 10:1-21

Romans 11:1-10

Romans 11:11-32

Romans 11:33-36

Romans 12:1-2

Romans 12:3-8

Romans 12:9-21

Romans 13:1-7

Romans 13:8-14

Romans 14:1-12

Romans 14:13-23

Romans 15:1-13

Romans 15:14-21

Romans 15:22-33

Romans 16:1-27

Appendix 1

Appendix 2

About The Author
Foreword

The following outlines are not intended to be a commentary so much as they are a guide to understanding the general flow of thought in this very important epistle of Paul. And yet, very obviously, they do comment on the intended meaning of the text. Any outline of the book of Romans, apart from that one which might someday be offered by the Apostle Paul himself, or by the Spirit of God who led Paul in the writing of this part of God's Word, is by nature both subjective and artificial. Outlines are subjective because they depend upon an individual's own perception of what he feels the main ideas to be. They are artificial in that they try to fit the material of the text into a framework of these ideas.

Some Scriptures are very difficult to outline. Most of the epistles fall into this category simply because the writer himself probably had little or no outline in mind when he penned the letter. If you try to outline a personal letter written to you by someone, it will become evident that topics are discussed as they come to mind and often in very little logical order.

Other Scriptures are somewhat easier because the writer did have an agenda to follow at least mentally. Such is the case with the book of Romans. While it is a personal letter, it was written to introduce the Apostle Paul and his gospel to those at Rome, a place he had never visited in his Christian ministry. It is to be expected then that Paul would carefully and logically present the message he proclaimed. And such he does.

In addition to this, there is another characteristic of the Epistle to the Romans which greatly aids one in outlining the book. Paul used a very common teaching technique of that day and culture. He asked questions. One has only to casually study how Paul used questions to realize how important they are in understanding the flow of thought in this great treatise about our faith. Briefly stated, Paul asked a question, usually in anticipation of a question or objection that a listener or reader might ask. Then he very briefly answered the question, followed by a discussion of that question and answer.

All too often outlines and discussions of the book of Romans have been based upon one's theology rather than on the text itself. This is not to say the theology is wrong in many cases. Often the theology is accurate. The problem is simply that Paul did not follow our theology texts when he wrote this epistle. In our thinking today the logical progression in our redemption is sin, salvation and then sanctification. Therefore this is how many therefore see the development of Romans. They fit the text into this framework.

Paul however, if one follows the ideas as suggested by his questions and answers, is following a different progression of thought. There were issues in his day that are not nearly as important to us today. It is these issues he develops rather than following our theological progressions.

All outlines are artificial as has been stated, even this one, for it attempts to fit the text into a framework as perceived by this writer. The writer did try as much as possible to derive the outline from the text itself, and hopes he succeeded in doing this. These outlines are neither inspired nor exhaustive. It is freely admitted that much work and study remains to be done. It is hoped that these outlines will aid the student in understanding in some small way the Book of Romans. There are other outlines and any serious student ought to consider them as well.

An overall outline of the book of Romans is given first followed by individual outlines of various sections. Note that the outlines are of a mixed sort. The overall outline contains both sentences and phrases. The section outlines are mostly made up of phrases. The overall outline contains the scripture references while the sectional outlines actually contain the scripture text itself. There are also two appendices which deal with two important translational issues.

To Table of Contents
Romans - Overview Outline

SALUTATION AND INTRODUCTION 1:1-1:17

I. The Salutation (Rom. 1:1-7)

II. The Introduction (Rom. 1:8-17)

THE WRATH OF GOD REVEALED 1:18-3:20

I. The Statement of the Main Idea: God's wrath (His just punishment of sin) is revealed against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of mankind. (Rom. 1:18-32)

II. The Explanation:

A. God judges all men impartially by their actions. (Rom. 2:1-11)

B. God judges all men by the standard of righteousness they possess. (Rom. 2:12-29)

C. Questions raised about the Jew's special position (Rom. 3:1-20)

THE RIGHTEOUSNESS OF GOD REVEALED 3:21-8:39

I. Introduction: Man is justified through faith in Jesus Christ apart from the Law. (Rom. 3:21-31)

II. The Discussion of Justification:

A. The First Issue: Justification is by faith, not works. (Rom. 4:1-8)

B. The Second Issue: Is justification by faith just for Jew or for the Gentile as well?

1. The Answer: Justification by faith is for Jew and Gentile alike. (Rom. 4:9-25)

2. The Application: We should be at peace with God and rejoice

C. The Third Issue: Does justification by faith nullify the Law?

1. Introduction to This Issue: The Relationship of Sin, Grace and the Law. (Rom. 5:12-21)

2. Four Questions Which Arise in Dealing with This Issue:

a. QUESTION: Should we continue in sin so that God's grace can increase?   
ANSWER: No! Since we have died to sin, let us no longer live in it

b. QUESTION: Then should we sin because we are not under Law but under grace?   
ANSWER: No! We have been released from the law to serve God. (Rom. 6:15-7:6)

c. QUESTION: Then does this mean that the Law itself was sinful?   
ANSWER: No! The law itself is not sin; it is holy, righteous and good. (Rom. 7:7-12)

d. QUESTION: Then did the Law cause my spiritual death?   
ANSWER: No! It was sin to which I am a slave, not the law, that caused my death. (Rom. 7:13-25)

3. Conclusion to the Third Issue:

a. There is no condemnation to those that are in Christ Jesus, so live that way

b. What is more, those who live by the spirit are the children and heirs of God. (Rom. 8:14-30)

III. Conclusion to Section Three: We are eternally secure in Jesus Christ. No one can ever condemn us or separate us from His love. (Rom. 8:31-39)

THE PROBLEM OF THE NATION OF ISRAEL (9:1-11:36)

I. Introduction: God's plan for Israel has not failed.

A. Paul grieves for his brothers, the nation of Israel. (Rom. 9:1-5)

B. God's plan for Israel has not run aground for not all who are Jews by birth are the elect of Israel. (Rom. 9:6-13)

C. God, whose sovereign right it is to do so, elected just a remnant of Israel so that the Gentiles also might become His children. (Rom. 9:14-33)

II. Israel's Failure of Faith: Israel failed in faith to obey the gospel although she both heard and understood the message. (Rom. 10:1-21)

III. God's Election of Grace:

A. QUESTION: Has God rejected His people?   
ANSWER: No! God has not rejected His people Israel; a remnant is reserved by grace. (Rom. 11:1-10)

B. QUESTION: But has Israel's unbelief resulted in her fall as a nation?   
ANSWER: No! Israel's failure now results in salvation for the Gentiles; but one day all Israel will be saved. (Rom. 11:11-32)

C. Conclusion: Praise God

THE PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF THE GOSPEL 12:1-15:13

I. Introduction: because of God's mercy we ought to live a life of sacrificial and sanctified worship. (Rom. 12:1-2)

II. This sacrificial and sanctified life is one in which:

A. We must honestly evaluate and exercise the gifts which God has given us. (Rom. 12:3-8)

B. Love is not hypocritical. (Rom. 12:9-21)

C. We live in obedience to those in authority. (Rom. 13:1-7)

D. We love our neighbor, but do not lust. (Rom. 13:8-14)

E. We live in harmony with those of differing opinions:

1. Do not scorn those who do not exercise the freedom you exercise, nor condemn those who exercise a freedom you do not. (Rom. 14:1-12)

2. Do not flaunt your freedom of faith. (Rom. 14:13-23)

3. Follow the example of our Lord Jesus Christ. (Rom. 15:1-13)

CONCLUSION 15:14-16:27

I. As a minister of Jesus Christ, Paul was used by God to proclaim the gospel where no one had ever heard. (Rom. 15:14-21)

II. Paul declares his plans to visit and requests their prayers. (Rom. 15:22-33)

III. Paul concludes his letter with a commendation, greetings, a warning and a doxology. (Rom. 16:1-27)

To Table of Contents
Romans 1:1-7

**SUMMARY:** The Apostle Paul declares his name, his office, his ministry and the Gospel he proclaims; states the recipients of this letter and then greets them.

I. The Identification Of The Writer (Verses 1:1-6)

A. The Writer:

1. His Name:

1a: Paul,

2. His Position:

a. In General Terms:

1b: a bond-servant of Christ Jesus,

b. In Specific Gift:

1c: called as an apostle,

c. In Area of Service:

1d: set apart for the gospel of God,

B. The Ministry (The Gospel of God):

1. Its Prior Declaration:

2a: which He promised beforehand

a. The Agents:

2b: through His prophets

b. The Location:

2c: in the holy Scriptures,

2. Its Subject:

3a: concerning His Son,

C. The Subject of the Gospel (His Son):

1. His Physical Qualifications:

3b: who was born of a descendant of David according to the flesh,

2. His Appointment:

4a: who was declared ***** the Son of God

a. Its Manner:

4b: with power

b. Its Inauguration:

4c: by the resurrection from the dead,

c. Its Basis:

4d: according to the Spirit of holiness,

3. His Name and Title:

4e: Jesus Christ our Lord,

D. The Ministry of Paul as an Apostle:

1. Its Source:

5a: through whom we have received grace and apostleship

2. Its Immediate Goal:

5b: to bring about the obedience of faith

3. Its Field:

5c: among all the Gentiles

4. Its Ultimate Goal:

5d: for His name's sake,

5. Its Inclusion of Those at Rome:

6: among whom you also are the called of Jesus Christ;

II. The Identification Of The Recipients (Verse 1:7)

A. The People:

7a: to all who are

B. Their Position:

1. They are Loved:

7b: beloved of God in Rome,

2. They are Called:

7c: called as saints:

III. The Greeting (Verse 1:7)

A. The Substance of the Blessing:

1. First is Grace:

7d: Grace to you

2. Second is Peace:

7e: and peace

B. The Source of the Blessing:

1. From the Father:

7f: from God our Father

2. From the Lord Jesus Christ:

7g: and the Lord Jesus Christ.

__________

***** Or "who was appointed..." See Appendix 1

To Table of Contents
Romans 1:8-17

**SUMMARY:** Before he begins the main treatise, Paul takes time to praise those to whom he wrote, inform them that he continually prays for them and let them know that although he has never visited them, he has really desired to do so because it is part of his debt and obligation to God.

I. Paul's Praise, Prayer and Purpose (Verses 1:8-12)

A. Paul's Praise:

1. The Action:

8a: First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all,

2. The Reason:

8b: because your faith is being proclaimed throughout the whole world.

B. Paul's Prayer:

1. The Witness:

9a: For God, whom I serve in my spirit in the preaching of the gospel of His Son, is my witness

2. The Prayers:

9b-10a: as to how unceasingly I make mention of you, always in my prayers making request,

3. The Reason:

10b: if perhaps now at last by the will of God I may succeed in coming to you.

C. Paul's Purpose:

1. The Desire:

11a: For I long to see you

2. The Reason:

a. Initial:

11b: so that I may impart some spiritual gift to you,

b. Final:

(1) For Them:

11c: that you may be established;

(2) For Himself:

12: that is, that I may be encouraged together with you while among you, each of us by the other's aith, both yours and mine.

II. Paul's Prior and Present Plans (Verses 1:13-17)

A. Paul's Prior Plans:

1. The Plan:

13a: I do not want you to be unaware, brethren, that often I have planned to come to you

2. The Hindrance:

13b: (and have been prevented so far)

3. The Reason:

13c: so that I may obtain some fruit among you also, even as among the rest of the Gentiles.

B. Paul's Present Desire:

1. The Debt:

14: I am under obligation both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to the wise and to the foolish.

2. The Desire:

15: So, for my part, I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome.

3. The Attitude:

a. The Statement:

16a: For I am not ashamed of the gospel,

b. The Explanation:

(1) First:

16b: for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek.

(2) Second:

17a: For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith;

(Habakkuk 2:4)

17b: as it is written,  
"BUT THE RIGHTEOUS man SHALL LIVE BY FAITH."

To Table of Contents
Romans 1:18-32

**SUMMARY:** The Apostle Paul states the main idea of the first major section of this book (1:18-3:20), namely, that God's wrath, that is His just punishment of sin, is revealed against all ungodliness and unrighteousness. This is so because God has revealed Himself to the world, but the world rejected this revelation. As a result God's response is to allow the world to reap the natural results of this rejection of Himself; idolatry, sexual perversion and a reprobate mind.

I. The Declaration of God's Wrath (Verse 1:18)

A. The Action:

18a: For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven

B. The Object:

18b: against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth in unrighteousness,

II. The Reason for God's Wrath (Verses 1:19-23)

A. The Revelation Given:

1. The Statement:

19: because that which is known about God is evident within them; for God made it evident to them.

2. The Explanation:

a. The Evidence:

20a: For since the creation of the world His invisible attributes, His eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly seen, being understood through what has been made,

b. The Guilt:

20b: so that they are without excuse.

B. The Revelation Rejected:

1. The Starting Point:

21a: For even though they knew God,

2. The Steps Downward:

a. Step One:

21b: they did not honor Him as God or give thanks,

b. Step Two:

21c: but they became futile in their speculations,

c. Step Three:

21d: and their foolish heart was darkened.

d. Step Four:

22: Professing to be wise, they became fools,

e. Step Five:

23: and exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image in the form of corruptible man and of birds and four-footed animals and crawling creatures.

III. The Results of God's Wrath (Verses 1:24-32)

A. Idolatry:

1. The Judgment:

24a: Therefore God gave them over in the lusts of their hearts to impurity,

2. The Result:

24b: so that their bodies would be dishonored among them.

3. The Reason:

25: For they exchanged the truth of God for a lie, and worshiped and served the creature rather than the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen.

B. Sexual Perversion:

1. The Judgment:

26a: For this reason God gave them over to degrading passions;

2. The Reason:

a. Lesbianism:

26b: for their women exchanged the natural function for that which is unnatural,

b. Homosexuality:

27a: and in the same way also the men abandoned the natural function of the woman and burned in their desire toward one another, men with men committing indecent acts

3. The Result:

27b: and receiving in their own persons the due penalty of their error.

C. A Reprobate Mind:

1. The Reason:

28a: And just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer,

2. The Judgment:

28b: God gave them over to a depraved mind, to do those things which are not proper,

3. The Results:

a. Their Character:

29-31: being filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, greed, evil; full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice; they are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, arrogant, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, without understanding, untrustworthy, unloving, unmerciful;

b. Their Hardness:

32: and although they know the ordinance of God, that those who practice such things are worthy of death, they not only do the same, but also give hearty approval to those who practice them.

To Table of Contents
Romans 2:1-11

**SUMMARY:** In explaining God's just punishment of unrighteousness, Paul declares that we condemn ourselves when we do the same things that we condemn in others, because God judges impartially based only upon a person's actions.

I. Our Self Condemnation (Verses 2:1-5)

A. The Declaration:

1. The Guilt:

1a: Therefore you have no excuse, every one of you who passes judgment,

2. The Proof:

1b: for in that which you judge another, you condemn yourself; for you who judge practice the same things.

B. The Discussion:

1. The Principle:

2: And we know that the judgment of God rightly falls upon those who practice such things.

2. The Mistakes:

a. The First:

3: But do you suppose this, O man, when you pass judgment on those who practice such things and do the same yourself, that you will escape the judgment of God?

b. The Second:

4: Or do you think lightly of the riches of His kindness and tolerance and patience, not knowing that the kindness of God leads you to repentance?

3. The Conclusion:

a. The Cause:

5a: But because of your stubbornness and unrepentant heart

b. The Result:

5b: you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God,

II. God's Judgment (Verses 2:6-11)

A. The Principle Stated _(Psalm 62:12)_ :

6: who WILL RENDER TO EACH PERSON ACCORDING TO HIS DEEDS:

B. The Principle Developed:

1. It is based upon one's deeds:

a. The Positive Case:

(1) The Deeds:

7a: to those who by perseverance in doing good seek for glory and honor and immortality,

(2) The Judgment:

7b: eternal life;

b. The Negative Case:

(1) The Deeds:

8a: but to those who are selfishly ambitious and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness,

(2) The Judgment:

8b: wrath and indignation.

2. It is Impartial:

a. The Negative Case:

(1) The Judgment:

9a: There will be tribulation and distress

(2) The Deeds:

9b: for every soul of man who does evil,

(3) The Persons:

9c: of the Jew first and also of the Greek,

b. The Positive Case:

(1) The Judgment:

10a: but glory and honor and peace

(2) The Deeds:

10b: to everyone who does good,

(3) The Persons:

10c: to the Jew first and also to the Greek.

C. The Reason Given:

11: For there is no partiality with God.

To Table of Contents
Romans 2:12-29

**SUMMARY:** In explaining God's just punishment of unrighteousness, Paul declares that God judges everyone, Jew and Gentile alike, on the basis of the standard of righteousness that a person possesses.

I. The Statement of the Principle (Verses 2:12-13)

A. For the Gentiles:

1. The Person:

12a: For all who have sinned without the Law

2. The Result:

12b: will also perish without the Law,

B. For the Jew:

1. The Person:

12c: and all who have sinned under the Law

2. The Result:

12d: will be judged by the Law;

3. The Reason:

13: for it is not the hearers of the Law who are just before God, but the doers of the Law will be ustified.

II. The Explanation of the Principle (Verses 2:14-24)

A. For the Gentile:

1. The Person:

14a: For when Gentiles who do not have the Law

2. Their Condition:

14b: do instinctively the things of the Law,

3. The Result:

a. The Statement:

14c: these, not having the Law, are a law to themselves,

b. The Explanation:

(1) The Witnesses:

(a) Implanted Law:

15a: in that they show the work of the Law written in their hearts,

(b) Conscience:

15b: their conscience bearing witness

(c) Thoughts:

15c: and their thoughts alternately accusing or else defending them,

(2) The Judgment Day:

16: on the day when, according to my gospel, God will judge the secrets of men through Christ Jesus.

B. For the Jew:

1. Their Boasts: **(IF)**

17a: But if you bear the name "Jew"

a. Having the Law:

17b: and rely upon the Law

b. Boast in God:

17c: and boast in God,

c. Knowledge:

18a: and know His will

d. Discernment:

18b: and approve the things that are essential, being instructed out of the Law,

e. A Guide:

19a: and are confident that you yourself are a guide to the blind,

f. A Light:

19b: a light to those who are in darkness,

g. A Corrector:

20a: a corrector of the foolish,

A Teacher:

20b: a teacher of the immature,

i. Truth and Knowledge:

20c: having in the Law the embodiment of knowledge and of the truth,

2. Their Failure: **(THEN)**

a. First Example:

21a: you, therefore, who teach another, do you not teach yourself?

b. Second Example:

21b: You who preach that one shall not steal, do you steal?

c. Third Example:

22a: You who say that one should not commit adultery, do you commit adultery?

d. Fourth Example:

22b: You who abhor idols, do you rob temples?

e. Fifth Example:

23: You who boast in the Law, through your breaking the Law, do you dishonor God?

3. The Result:

_(Isaiah 52:5)_

24: For "THE NAME OF GOD IS BLASPHEMED AMONG THE GENTILES BECAUSE OF YOU," just as it is written.

III. The Case of Circumcision (Verses 2:25-29)

A. For the Jew:

1. The Positive Case:

a. **THEN:**

25a: For indeed circumcision is of value

b. **IF:**

25b: if you practice the Law;

2. The Negative Case:

a. **IF:**

25c: but if you are a transgressor of the Law,

b. **THEN:**

25d: your circumcision has become uncircumcision.

B. For the Gentile:

1. First:

a. **IF:**

26a: So if the uncircumcised man keeps the requirements of the Law,

b. **THEN:**

26b: will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision?

2. Second:

a. **IF:**

27a: And he who is physically uncircumcised, if he keeps the Law,

b. **THEN:**

27b: will he not judge you who though having the letter of the Law and circumcision are a transgressor of the Law?

C. True Jewishness and Circumcision:

1. Not Outward Appearance:

a. Jewishness:

28a: For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly,

b. Circumcision:

28b: nor is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh.

2. But Inward Reality:

a. Jewishness:

29a: But he is a Jew who is one inwardly;

b. Circumcision:

29b: and circumcision is that which is of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter;

c. Praise:

29c: and his praise is not from men, but from God.

To Table of Contents
Romans 3:1-20

**SUMMARY:** Having stated that God judges everybody on the basis of the standard of righteousness that they posses, Paul now deals with the questions inevitably raised about a Jew's special position. He declares that, while there is a great an advantage in being a Jew, it does not make that one any more righteous than a Gentile, because all men, Jews and Gentiles alike, stand condemned before God.

I. Is There Any Advantage in Being a Jew? (verses 3:1-8)

A. The Main Questions: Is there an advantage? **Yes!**

1. The Questions:

1: Then what advantage has the Jew? Or what is the benefit of circumcision?

2. The Answers:

2: Great in every respect. First of all, that they were entrusted with the oracles of God.

B. The Resulting Questions:

1. Is God's faithfulness negated? **No, not at all!**

a. The Question:

(1) **IF:**

3a: What then? If some did not believe,

(2) **THEN:**

3b: their unbelief will not nullify the faithfulness of God, will it?

b. The Answer:

(1) The Statement:

4a: May it never be! Rather, let God be found true, though every man be found a liar, as it is written,

(2) The Scripture _(Psalm 51:4)_ :

4b: "THAT YOU MAY BE JUSTIFIED IN YOUR WORDS,  
AND PREVAIL WHEN YOU ARE JUDGED."

2. Is God unrighteous to judge then? **No, Not at all!**

a. The Question:

(1) **IF:**

5a: But if our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God,

(2) **THEN:**

5b: what shall we say? The God who inflicts wrath is not unrighteous, is He? (I am speaking in human terms.)

b. The Answer:

(1) The Statement:

6a: May it never be!

(2) The Reasoning:

6b: For otherwise, how will God judge the world?

3. But why should the Jew be judged?

a. The Question:

(1) **IF:**

7a: But if through my lie the truth of God abounded to His glory,

(2) **THEN:**

(a) First:

7b: why am I also still being judged as a sinner?

(b) Second:

8a: And why not say (as we are slanderously reported and as some claim that we say), "Let us do evil that good may come"?

b. The Answer:

8b: Their condemnation is just.

II. Is the Jew Any Better Than the Gentile? (Verses 3:9-20)

A. The Question: Are Jews better then? **No!**

1. The Question:

9a: What then? Are we better than they?

2. The Answer:

a. The Statement:

9b: Not at all;

b. The Explanation:

9c: for we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin;

c. The Scriptures:

as it is written,

_(Psalm 14:1-3 & 53:1-3)_

10-12: "THERE IS NONE RIGHTEOUS, NOT EVEN ONE;  
THERE IS NONE WHO UNDERSTANDS,  
THERE NONE WHO SEEKS FOR GOD;  
ALL HAVE TURNED ASIDE, TOGETHER THEY HAVE BECOME USELESS;  
THERE IS NONE WHO DOES GOOD,  
THERE IS NOT EVEN ONE."

_(Psalm 5:9)_

13a: "THEIR THROAT IS AN OPEN GRAVE,   
WITH THEIR TONGUES THEY KEEP DECEIVING,"

_(Psalm 104:3)_

13b: "THE POISON OF ASPS IS UNDER THEIR LIPS";

_(Psalm 10:7)_

14: "WHOSE MOUTH IS FULL OF CURSING AND BITTERNESS";

_(Isaiah 59:7-8)_

15-17: "THEIR FEET ARE SWIFT TO SHED BLOOD,  
DESTRUCTION AND MISERY ARE IN THEIR PATHS,  
AND THE PATH OF PEACE THEY HAVE NOT KNOWN."

_(Psalm 36:1)_

18: "THERE IS NO FEAR OF GOD BEFORE THEIR EYES."

B. The Conclusion - The Place of the Law:

1. To whom the Law speaks:

19a: Now we know that whatever the Law says, it speaks to those who are under the Law,

2. Why the Law speaks:

19b: so that every mouth may be closed and all the world may become accountable to God;

3. What the Law Accomplishes:

a. What it does not do:

20a: because by the works of the Law no flesh will be justified in His sight;

b. What it does accomplish:

20b: for through the Law comes the knowledge of sin.

To Table of Contents
Romans 3:21-31

**SUMMARY:** In introducing the second major part of his treatise, Paul first declares the main idea, namely, that a person is made just by God through faith in Jesus Christ apart from keeping the law. Then he outlines the three main ideas he will take up in this part of his treatise: justification comes by faith not by keeping the law, justification is for Jew and Gentile alike, and justification by faith fulfills the law rather than nullifying it.

I. The Statement of the Idea (Verses 3:21-26)

A. The Righteousness God Requires of Man:

1. Its Relationship to the Law:

a. Negatively:

21a: But now apart from the Law the righteousness of God has been manifested,

b. Positively:

21b: being witnessed by the Law and the Prophets,

2. Its Relationship to Faith:

a. The Object of Faith:

22a: even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ

b. The Recipients of Faith:

(1) Who:

(a) Statement:

22b: for all those who believe; for there is no distinction;

(b) Explanation:

23: for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,

(2) How:

(a) Manner

24a: being justified as a gift by His grace

(b) Basis:

24b: through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus;

B. The Righteousness God Requires of Himself:

1. The Action:

25a: whom God displayed publicly as a propitiation in His blood through faith.

2. The Reason:

a. In the Past:

(1) Statement:

25b: This was to demonstrate His righteousness,

(2) Explanation:

25c: because in the forbearance of God He passed over the sins previously committed;

b. In the Present:

26a: for the demonstration, I say, of His righteousness at the present time,

c. Conclusion:

26b: so that He would be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus.

II. The Outline of the Coming Discussion (Verses 3:27-31)

A. First Issue: Faith or Works? (Discussed in 4:1-8)

1. Part 1:

a. Question:

27a: Where then is boasting?

b. Answer:

27b: It is excluded.

2. Part 2:

a. Question:

27c: By what kind of law? Of works?

b. Answer:

27d: No, but by a law of faith.

3. Summary

28: For we maintain that a man is justified by faith apart from works of the Law.

B. Second Issue: For Jew only or Gentile Also? (Discussed 4:9-25)

1. Questions:

a. First:

29a: Or is God the God of Jews only?

b. Second:

29b: Is He not the God of Gentiles also?

2. Answer:

29c: Yes, of Gentiles also,

3. Summary:

30: since indeed God who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith is one

C. Third Issue: (Does Faith nullify the Law? (Discussed 5:12-8:13)

1. Question:

31a: Do we then nullify the Law through faith?

2. Answer:

31b: May it never be!

3. Summary:

31c: On the contrary, we establish the Law.

To Table of Contents
Romans 4:1-8

**SUMMARY:** The Apostle Paul takes up the first of the three ideas he deals with in declaring our justification, whether or not it is by the law or by faith. He demonstrates that it is by faith by showing that both Abraham and David were justified by faith, not by keeping the Law.

I. The Example of Abraham (verses 4:1-3)

A. The Question:

1: What then shall we say that Abraham, our forefather according to the flesh, has found?

B. The Answer:

1. **IF:**

2a: For if Abraham was justified by works,

2. **THEN:**

a. Positively:

2b: he has something to boast about,

b. Negatively:

2c: but not before God.

C. The Scripture:

3a: For what does the Scripture say?

_(Genesis 15:6)_

3b: "ABRAHAM BELIEVED GOD, AND IT WAS CREDITED TO HIM AS RIGHTEOUSNESS."

II. The Principle (Verses 4:4-5)

A. Concerning Works:

1. The Person:

4a: Now to the one who works,

2. The Result:

a. Negatively:

4b: his wage is not credited as a favor,

b. Positively:

4c: but as what is due.

B. Concerning Faith:

1. The Person:

a. Negatively:

5a: But to the one who does not work,

b. Positively:

5b: but believes in Him who justifies the ungodly,

2. The Result:

5c: his faith is credited as righteousness,

III. The Example of David (Verses 4:6-8)

A. The Main Idea:

1. The Author:

6a: just as David also speaks

2. His Subject:

6b: of the blessing on the man to whom God credits righteousness apart from works:

B. The Scripture _(Psalm 32:1-2)_ :

7-8: "BLESSED ARE THOSE WHOSE LAWLESS DEEDS HAVE BEEN FORGIVEN,  
AND WHOSE SINS HAVE BEEN COVERED.  
BLESSED IS THE MAN WHOSE SIN THE LORD WILL NOT TAKE INTO ACCOUNT."

To Table of Contents
Romans 4:9-25

**SUMMARY:** The Apostle Paul takes up the second of the three ideas he deals with in declaring our justification, whether it is just for the Jew or for Jew and Gentile alike. He shows that Abraham was justified by faith alone before he was a "Jew," that is before he was circumcised and before the law was given.

I. The Introductory Question (Verse 4:9)

A. The Question:

9a: Is this blessing then on the circumcised, or on the uncircumcised also?

B. The Subject _(Genesis 15:6)_ :

9b: For we say, "FAITH WAS CREDITED TO ABRAHAM AS RIGHTEOUSNESS."

II. Circumcision Was Not a Factor (Verses 4:10-12)

A. The Questions:

1. First:

10a: How then was it credited?

2. Second:

10b: While he was circumcised, or uncircumcised?

B. The Answer:

10c: Not while circumcised, but while uncircumcised;

C. The Explanation:

1. The Gift:

a. A Sign:

11a: and he received the sign of circumcision,

b. A Seal:

11b: a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had while uncircumcised,

2. Its Purpose:

a. For the Gentiles:

11c: so that he might be the father of all who believe without being circumcised, that righteousness might be credited to them,

b. For the Jews:

12: and the father of circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision, but who also follow in the steps of the faith of our father Abraham which he had while uncircumcised.

III. The Law Was Not a Factor (Verses 4:13-15)

A. The Statement:

1. The Subject:

13a: For the promise to Abraham or to his descendants that he would be heir of the world

2. The Predicate:

a. Negatively:

13b: was not through the Law,

b. Positively:

13c: but through the righteousness of faith.

B. The Explanation:

1. The Supposition:

14a: For if those who are of the Law are heirs,

2. The Results:

a. Concerning Faith:

14b: faith is made void

b. Concerning the Promise:

14c: and the promise is nullified;

3. The Reasons:

a. With the Law:

15a: for the Law brings about wrath,

b. Without the Law:

15b: but where there is no law, there also is no violation.

IV. Faith Is the Only Factor (Verses 4:16-25)

A. The Statement About Faith:

1. The Assertion:

16a: For this reason it is by faith,

2. The Reason:

16b: in order that it may be in accordance with grace,

3. The Result:

a. Generally:

16c: so that the promise will be guaranteed to all the descendants,

b. Specifically:

(1) Jews:

16d: not only to those who are of the Law,

(2) Gentiles:

16e: but also to those who are of the faith of Abraham,

B. The Person of Faith, Abraham:

1. His Position:

a. The Statement:

16f: who is the father of us all,

b. The Scripture _(Genesis 17:5)_ :

17a: (as it is written, "A FATHER OF MANY NATIONS HAVE I MADE YOU")

2. His God:

17b: in the presence of Him whom he believed, even God, who gives life to the dead and calls into being that which does not exist.

3. His Faith:

a. The Action:

18a: In hope against hope he believed,

b. The Results:

18b: so that he might become a father of many nations

c. The Promise:

18c: according to that which had been spoken,

_(Genesis 15:5)_

18d: "SO SHALL YOUR DESCENDANTS BE."

C. The Process of his faith: (He knew...)

1. The Circumstances:

a. Himself:

19a: Without becoming weak in faith he contemplated his own body, now as good as dead since he was about a hundred years old,

b. Sarah:

19b: and the deadness of Sarah's womb;

2. The Promise of God:

20: yet, with respect to the promise of God, he did not waver in unbelief but grew strong in faith, giving glory to God,

3. The Character of God:

21: and being fully assured that what God had promised, He was able also to perform.

4. The Justification by God _(Genesis 16:6)_ :

22: Therefore IT WAS ALSO CREDITED TO HIM AS RIGHTEOUSNESS.

D. The Application of His Faith:

1. For Abraham:

23: Now not for his sake only was it written that it was credited to him,

2. For Us:

a. The People of Faith:

24a: but for our sake also, to whom it will be credited, as those who believe

b. The God of Faith:

24b: in Him who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead,

c. The Savior of Our Faith:

(1) His Death:

25a: He who was delivered over because of our transgressions,

(2) His Resurrection:

25b: and was raised because of our justification.

To Table of Contents
Romans 5:1-11

**SUMMARY:** Now that he has shown that everyone, Jew and Gentile alike, are justified by faith apart from the Law, Paul declares what our response ought to be. He exhorts us to be at peace with God (stop striving by our own efforts to be acceptable to God) and rejoice in hope, in tribulation and in God Himself.

I. The Statement of the Reason (Verse 5:1)

1a: Therefore, having been justified by faith,

II. The Exhortation to Be at Peace (Verses 5:1-2)

A. The Exhortation:

1b: we have* peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ,

B. The Explanation:

2a: through whom also we have obtained our introduction by faith into this grace in which we stand;

III. The Exhortation to Exult in Hope (Verse 5:2)

2b: and we exult* in hope of the glory of God.

IV. The Exhortation to Exult in Tribulation (Verses 5:3-10)

A. The Exhortation:

3a: And not only this, but we also exult* in our tribulations,

B. The Explanation:

1. The End Result:

a. Step One:

3b: knowing that tribulation brings about perseverance;

b. Step Two:

4a: and perseverance, proven character;

c. Step Three:

4b: and proven character, hope;

2. Its Certainty:

5a: and hope does not disappoint,

a. Reason one:

5b: because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts through the Holy Spirit who was given to us.

b. Reason Two:

(1) The Statement:

6: For while we were still helpless, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly.

(2) The Explanation:

(a) First Case:

7a: For one will hardly die for a righteous man;

(b) Second Case:

7b: though perhaps for the good man someone would dare even to die.

(c) Our Case:

8: But God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.

c. Reason Three:

(1) The Statement:

9: Much more then, having now been justified by His blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through Him.

(2) The Explanation:

(a) **IF:**

10a: For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of His Son,

(b) **THEN:**

10b: much more, having been reconciled, we shall be saved by His life.

V. The Exhortation to Exult in God (Verse5:11)

A. The Command:

11a: And not only this, but we also exult* in God

B. The Means:

11b: through our Lord Jesus Christ,

C. The Reason:

11c: through whom we have now received the reconciliation.

__________

***** Or "let us have peace" in verse 1 and "let us exult" in verses 2, 3 and 11. See Appendix 2

To Table of Contents
Romans 5:12-21

**SUMMARY:** The Apostle Paul takes up the third and most complex of the three ideas he deals with in declaring our justification, whether or not justification by faith nullifies the Law. He introduces the ideas by explaining the relationship of sin, grace and the law. He states that sin and death entered by Adam and spread to all of us. In contrast to this grace and life came through the life and work of Jesus Christ. The Law was given, not to justify, but rather to show the sinfulness of sin.

I. The Coming of Sin and Death (Verses 5:12-14)

A. The Entrance of Sin:

12a: Therefore, just as through one man sin entered into the world,

B. The Entrance of Death:

12b: and death through sin,

C. The Spread of Death:

1. The Statement:

12c: and so death spread to all men, because all sinned—

2. The Explanation:

a. The Principles:

(1) First:

13a: for until the Law sin was in the world,

(2) Second:

13b: but sin is not imputed when there is no law.

b. The Proof:

14: Nevertheless death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of the offense of Adam, who is a type of Him who was to come.

II. The Coming of Grace and Life (Verses 5:15-19)

A. The Contrasts:

1. Sin — Grace:

a. The Statement:

15a: But the free gift is not like the transgression.

b. The Explanation:

(1) Adam:

15b: For if by the transgression of the one the many died,

(2) Christ:

15c: much more did the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one Man, Jesus Christ, abound to the many.

2. Condemnation — Justification:

a. The Statement:

16a: The gift is not like that which came through the one who sinned;

b. The Explanation:

(1) Adam:

16b: for on the one hand the judgment arose from one transgression resulting in condemnation,

(2) Christ:

16c: but on the other hand the free gift arose from many transgressions resulting in justification.

3. Death — Life:

a. Adam:

17a: For if by the transgression of the one, death reigned through the one,

b. Christ:

17b: much more those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the One, Jesus Christ.

B. The Conclusion:

1. First:

a. Adam's Transgression:

18a: So then as through one transgression there resulted condemnation to all men,

b. Christ's Righteousness:

18b: even so through one act of righteousness there resulted justification of life to all men.

2. Second:

a. Adam's Disobedience:

19a: For as through the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners,

b. Christ's Obedience:

19b: even so through the obedience of the One the many will be made righteous.

III. The Purpose of the Law and Grace (Verses 5:20-21)

A. The Purpose of the Law:

20a: The Law came in so that the transgression would increase;

B. The Purpose of Grace:

1. The Strength of Grace:

20b: but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more,

2. The Result of Grace:

21: so that, as sin reigned in death, even so grace would reign through righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

To Table of Contents
Romans 6:1-14

**SUMMARY:** After explaining the relationship between sin, law and grace, Paul will now deal with four issues that arise from this. He anticipates the questions and answers them. The first question is since grace increases when sin increases, should we sin so God's grace may increase even more? The answer is certainly not! We have died to sin so we should no longer live in it.

I. Introductory Question and Answer (Verses 6:1-3)

A. The Questions:

1. First:

1a: What shall we say then?

2. Second:

1b: Are we to continue in sin so that grace may increase?

B. The Answer:

1. The Denial:

2a: May it never be!

2. The Rhetorical Questions:

a. First:

2b: How shall we who died to sin still live in it?

b. Second:

3: Or do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into His death?

II. Discussion (Verses 6:4-11)

A. Our Identification with Christ:

1. Its Purpose:

a. The Statement:

4a: Therefore we have been buried with Him through baptism into death,

b. The Reason:

4b: so that as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we too might walk in newness of life.

2. Its Promise:

a. **IF:**

5a: For if we have become united with Him in the likeness of His death,

b. **THEN:**

5b: certainly we shall also be in the likeness of His resurrection,

B. Into His Death:

1. Our Identification:

6a: knowing this, that our old self was crucified with Him,

2. The Purpose:

a. First:

6b: in order that our body of sin might be done away with,

b. Second:

6c: so that we would no longer be slaves to sin;

3. The Explanation:

7: for he who has died is freed from sin.

C. Into His Life:

1. Our Identification:

8: Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with Him,

2. The Resurrection of Christ:

a. The Statement:

9a: knowing that Christ, having been raised from the dead,

b. The Results:

9b: is never to die again; death no longer is master over Him.

c. The Explanation:

(1) His Death:

10a: For the death that He died, He died to sin once for all;

(2) His Life:

10b: but the life that He lives, He lives to God.

3. The Exhortation:

a. To be dead:

11a: Even so consider yourselves to be dead to sin,

b. To be Alive:

11b: but alive to God in Christ Jesus.

III. Application of the Truth (Verses 6:12-14)

A. Negatively:

1. First:

12: Therefore do not let sin reign in your mortal body so that you obey its lusts,

2. Second:

13a: and do not go on presenting the members of your body to sin as instruments of unrighteousness;

B. Positively:

1. First:

13b: but present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead,

2. Second:

13c: and your members as instruments of righteousness to God.

C. The Explanation:

1. The Statement:

14a: For sin shall not be master over you,

2. The Reason:

14b: for you are not under law but under grace.

To Table of Contents
Romans 6:15-7:6

**SUMMARY:** The next question Paul deals with is shall we take advantage of the fact that we are not under the Law, but under grace? The answer is certainly not! We have been released from the Law's power so that we might serve God.

I. Introductory Question and Answer (Verse 6:15)

A. The Question:

15a: What then? Shall we sin because we are not under law but under grace?

B. The Answer:

15b: May it never be!

II. The First Argument (Verses 6:16-23)

A. The Rhetorical Question:

1. The Query:

16a: Do you not know

2. The General Principle:

16b: that when you present yourselves to someone as slaves for obedience, you are slaves of the one whom you obey,

3. The Specifics:

a. The Negative:

16c: either of sin resulting in death,

b. The Positive:

16d: or of obedience resulting in righteousness?

B. The Declaration of a New Master:

1. The Praise:

17a: But thanks be to God that

a. The Old Master:

17b: though you were slaves of sin,

b. The Obedience:

17c: you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were committed,

c. The Change in Masters:

(1) The Old:

18a: and ha ving been freed from sin,

(2) The New:

18b: you became slaves of righteousness.

C. The Exhortation:

1. Explanatory Note:

19a: I am speaking in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh.

2. The Past:

a. The Actions:

19b: For just as you presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness,

b. Their Results:

19c: resulting in further lawlessness,

3. The Present:

a. The Actions:

19d: so now present your members as slaves to righteousness,

b. Their Result:

19e: resulting in sanctification.

D. The Benefits of Our Service:

1. The Old Service:

a. Our Condition:

(1) Our Slavery:

20a: For when you were slaves of sin,

(2) Our Freedom:

20b: you were free in regard to righteousness.

b. Our Benefits:

(1) The Question:

21a: Therefore what benefit were you then deriving from the things of which you are now ashamed?

(2) The Outcome:

21b: For the outcome of those things is death.

2. The New Service:

a. Our Condition:

(1) Our Freedom:

22a: But now having been freed from sin

(2) Our Slavery:

22b: and enslaved to God,

b. Our Benefits:

(1) The Immediate:

22c: you derive your benefit, resulting in sanctification,

(2) The Outcome:

22d: and the outcome, eternal life.

3. The Summary:

a. The Wages of the Old:

23a: For the wages of sin is death,

b. The Gift of the New:

23b: but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.

III. The Second Argument (Verses 7:1-6)

A. The Principle Stated:

1. The Query:

1a: Or do you not know,

2. The Addressees:

1b: brethren (for I am speaking to those who know the law),

3. The Principle:

1c: that the law has jurisdiction over a person as long as he lives?

B. The Principle Illustrated:

1. The Law Concerning Marriage:

a. Case One:

2a: For the married woman is bound by law to her husband while he is living;

b. Case Two:

2b: but if her husband dies, she is released from the law concerning the husband.

2. The Application of the Law:

a. Case One:

3a: So then, if while her husband is living she is joined to another man, she shall be called an adulteress;

b. Case Two:

3b: but if her husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she is not an adulteress though she is joined to another man.

C. The Principle Applied:

1. The Statement:

a. The Action Taken:

4a: Therefore, my brethren, you also were made to die to the Law through the body of Christ,

b. Its Purpose:

(1) The Reason:

4b: so that you might be joined to another, to Him who was raised from the dead,

(2) The End Result:

4c: in order that we might bear fruit for God.

2. The Explanation:

a. The Old Marriage:

(1) The Service:

5a: For while we were in the flesh, the sinful passions, which were aroused by the Law, were at work in the members of our body

(2) The Result:

5b: to bear fruit for death.

b. The New Marriage:

(1) Release from the Old:

6a: But now we have been released from the Law, having died to that by which we were bound,

(2) Service in the New:

6b: so that we serve in newness of the Spirit and not in oldness of the letter.

To Table of Contents
Romans 7:7-12

**SUMMARY:** There would be those who would be temped to conclude at this point, especially some Gentiles, that the Law was a bad thing, that it was sinful. The Apostle therefore deals with the question is the Law sin? He declares certainly not! It is holy righteous and good.

I. Introductory Question and Answer (Verse 7:7)

A. The Questions:

1. First:

7a: What shall we say then?

2. Second:

7b: Is the Law sin?

B. The Answer:

7c: May it never be!

II. Discussion (Verses 7:7-11)

A. The Law Defines Sin:

1. The Principle Stated:

7d: On the contrary, I would not have come to know sin except through the Law;

2. The Example Stated _(Exodus 20:17)_ :

7e: for I would not have known about coveting if the Law had not said, "YOU SHALL NOT COVET."

3. The Example Expanded:

a. The Subject:

8a: But sin,

b. The Means:

8b: taking opportunity through the commandment,

c. The Result:

8c: produced in me coveting of every kind;

4. The Conclusion:

8d: for apart from the Law sin is dead.

B. The Law Empowers Sin:

1. The Conditions Contrasted:

a. Before the Law:

9a: I was once alive apart from the Law;

b. After the Commandment:

9b: but when the commandment came, sin became alive and I died;

2. The Discussion:

a. The Results Contrasted:

(1) The Intended:

10a: and this commandment, which was to result in life,

(2) The Actual:

10b: proved to result in death for me;

b. The Reason Given:

(1) The Subject:

11a: for sin,

(2) The Means:

11b: taking an opportunity through the commandment,

(3) The Result:

11c: deceived me and through it killed me.

III. Conclusion Verse 7:12)

A. Stated:

12a: So then, the Law is holy,

B. Restated:

12b: and the commandment is holy and righteous and good.

To Table of Contents
Romans 7:13-25

**SUMMARY:** The last question that Paul deals with in his discussion of the relationship of sin, grace and the Law relates to the previous question. Having concluded the Law is holy, righteous and good, someone is bound to ask, "But, Paul, how can that be? The Law caused my spiritual death, didn't it?" "Certainly not!", the Apostle answers. "Sin to which I was enslaved caused my death, not the Law!"

I. Introductory Question and Answer (Verse 7:13)

A. The Question:

13a: Therefore did that which is good become cause of death for me?

B. The Answer:

1. The Denial:

13b: May it never be!

2. The Declaration:

13c: Rather it was sin,

3. The Reason:

a. Statement:

13d: in order that it might be shown to be sin by effecting my death through that which is good,

b. Amplification:

13e: so that through the commandment sin would become utterly sinful.

II. Discussion (Verses 7:14-25)

A. I am in Bondage to Sin:

1. The Principle Stated:

a. The Law:

14a: For we know that the Law is spiritual,

b. The Person:

14b: but I am of flesh, sold into bondage to sin.

2. The Principle Demonstrated:

a. The Quandary:

15a: For what I am doing, I do not understand;

b. The Behavior:

15b: for I am not practicing what I would like to do, but I am doing the very thing I hate.

3. The Conclusion:

a. **IF:**

16a: But if I do the very thing I do not want to do,

b. **Then:**

16b: I agree with the Law, confessing that the Law is good.

B. Indwelling Sin is to Blame:

1. The Principle Stated:

17: So now, no longer am I the one doing it, but sin which dwells in me.

2. The Principle Demonstrated:

a. Statement:

18a: For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh;

b. Explanation:

(1) First:

18b: or the willing is present in me, but the doing of the good is not.

(2) Second:

19: For the good that I want, I do not do, but I practice the very evil that I do not want.

3. The Conclusion:

a. **IF:**

20a: But if I am doing the very thing I do not want,

b. **Then:**

20b: I am no longer the one doing it, but sin which dwells in me.

C. Summary and Conclusion:

1. The Principles:

a. Indwelling Evil:

21a: I find then the principle that evil is present in me,

b. Good Intentions:

21b: the one who wants to do good.

2. The Explanation:

a. The Inward Confession:

22: For I joyfully concur with the law of God in the inner man,

b. The Law of Sin:

23a: but I see a different law in the members of my body, waging war against the law of my mind

c. The Bondage:

23b: and making me a prisoner of the law of sin which is in my members.

(*The Hope:

a. The Lament:

24a: Wretched man that I am!

b. The Question:

24b: Who will set me free from the body of this death?

c. The Deliverance:)

25a: Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord!

3. The Conclusion:

a. The Wish:

25b: So then, on the one hand I myself with my mind am serving the law of God,

b. The Reality:

25c: but on the other, with my flesh the law of sin.

__________

* Verses 24-25a are parenthetical, foreshadowing the victory brought by Jesus Christ (8:1 and following). **The last part of verse 7:25 does not speak of the struggle a believer has with sin** but the best an unbeliever can do under the law. Note the context of the whole section from 7:13 to 25 and also the first two verses of chapter 8 where Paul declares what Christ has done for a believer. Believers are free from the law of sin and death, which tightly grips the person speaking in 7:22 and 23. The wretched man in verse 24 is an unbeliever trying to live by the law which he cannot do.

To Table of Contents
Romans 8:1-13

**SUMMARY:** The Apostle Paul concludes this discussion of whether or not grace and faith nullify the Law with the triumphant assertion that there is no condemnation to those who by faith are in Jesus Christ. The debt is paid and the law is fulfilled. Now we are free to live in the Spirit and not by human effort.

I. The Statement (Verse 8:1)

A. The Condition:

1a: Therefore there is now no condemnation

B. The Qualification:

1b: for those who are in Christ Jesus.

II. The Reason (verses 8:2-11)

A. The Reason Stated:

1. Freedom from Sin and Death:

a. The Subject:

2a: For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus

b. The Action:

2b: has set you free from the law of sin and of death.

2. Righteousness Fulfilled:

a. The Failure:

(1) What:

3a: For what the Law could not do,

(2) Why:

3b: weak as it was through the flesh,

b. The Success:

(1) Who:

3c: God did:

(2) How:

(a) The Agent:

3d: sending His own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh

(b) The Means:

3e: and as an offering for sin,

(3) What:

3f: He condemned sin in the flesh,

(4) Why:

(a) The Law:

4a: so that the requirement of the Law might be fulfilled in us,

(b) The Life:

4b: who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the Spirit.

B. The Reason Expan ded:

1. The Contrast - FLESH and SPIRIT:

a. Their Orientation:

(1) The Flesh:

5a: For those who are according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh,

(2) The Spirit:

5b: but those who are according to the Spirit, the things of the Spirit.

b. Their Results:

(1) The Flesh:

6a: For the mind set on the flesh is death,

(2) The Spirit:

6b: but the mind set on the Spirit is life and peace,

2. The Explanation:

a. The Failure of the Flesh:

(1) Toward God:

7a: because the mind set on the flesh is hostile toward God;

(2) Toward the Law:

7b: for it does not subject itself to the law of God, for it is not even able to do so,

(3) Conclusion:

8: and those who are in the flesh cannot please God.

b. The Success of the Spirit:

(1) The Qualification:

(a) Positively:

9a: However, you are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you.

(b) Negatively:

9b: But if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to Him.

(2) The Results:

(a) Spiritual Life:

10: If Christ is in you, though the body is dead because of sin, yet the spirit is alive because of righteousness.

(b) Physical Life:

11: But if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through His Spirit who dwells in you.

III. The Conclusion (Verses 8:12-13)

A. The Statement:

12: So then, brethren, we are under obligation, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh—

B. Reason:

1. Stated Negatively:

a. **IF:**

13a: for if you are living according to the flesh,

b. **THEN:**

13b: you must die;

2. Stated Positively:

a. **IF:**

13c: but if by the Spirit you are putting to death the deeds of the body,

b. **THEN:**

13d: you will live.

To Table of Contents
Romans 8:14-30

**SUMMARY:** Paul continues the conclusion by declaring that not only is the debt paid and the law fulfilled in us who are in Christ, we are also adopted as God's child and heir. This sonship has yet to be consummated, but it is certain and it is eagerly anticipated.

I. The Declaration of Our Sonship (Verses 8:14-30)

A. The Statement:

1. The People:

14a: For all who are being led by the Spirit of God,

2. Their Position:

14b: these are sons of God.

B. The Explanation:

1. The Agent of our Adoption:

a. The Negative:

15a: For you have not received a spirit of slavery leading to fear again,

b. The Positive:

15b: but you have received a spirit of adoption as sons by which we cry out, "Abba! Father!"

2. The Witness to our Adoption:

a. The Statement:

16: The Spirit Himself testifies with our spirit that we are children of God,

b. The Implication:

(1) First:

(a) **IF:**

17a: and if children,

(b) **THEN:**

17b: heirs also, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ,

(2) Second:

(a) **IF:**

17c: if indeed we suffer with Him

(b) **THEN:**

17d: so that we may also be glorified with Him.

II. The Anticipation of Our Sonship (Verses 8:18-25)

A. The Comparison:

1. The Present:

18a: For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared

2. The Future:

18b: with the glory that is to be revealed to us.

B. The Creation's Anticipation:

1. The Statement:

19: For the anxious longing of the creation waits eagerly for the revealing of the sons of God.

2. The Explanation:

a. Its Bondage:

20a: For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of Him who subjected it,

b. Its Expectation:

20b-21: in hope that the creation itself also will be set free from its slavery to corruption into the freedom of the glory of the children of God.

c. Its Suffering:

22: For we know that the whole creation groans and suffers the pains of childbirth together until now.

C. The Children's Anticipation:

1. The Statement:

a. Who:

23a: And not only this, but also we ourselves, having the first fruits of the Spirit,

b. What:

23b: even we ourselves groan within ourselves,

c. Why:

23c: waiting eagerly for our adoption as sons, the redemption of our body.

2. The Explanation:

a. The Statement:

24a: For in hope we have been saved,

b. The Principle:

24b: but hope that is seen is not hope; for who hopes for what he already sees?

c. The Conclusion:

(1) **IF:**

25a: But if we hope for what we do not see,

(2) **THEN:**

25b: with perseverance we wait eagerly for it.

III. The Certainty of Our Sonship (Verses 8:26-30)

A. The Present Work of the Spirit:

1. The Statement:

26a: In the same way the Spirit also helps our weakness;

2. The Explanation:

a. Our Inability:

26b: for we do not know how to pray as we should,

b. The Spirit Prays:

26c: but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words;

c. The Father Hears:

(1) Who:

27a: and He who searches the hearts

(2) What:

27b: knows what the mind of the Spirit is,

(3) Why:

27c: because He intercedes for the saints according to the will of God.

B. The Sovereignty of the Father:

1. The Statement:

a. The Subject:

28a: And we know that God

b. His Works:

28b: causes all things to work together for good

c. Its Object:

28c: to those who love God, to those who are called according to His purpose.

2. The Explanation:

a. Step One:

(1) Who:

29a: For those whom He foreknew,

(2) What:

29b: He also predestined to become conformed to the image of His Son,

(3) Why:

29c: so that He would be the firstborn among many brethren;

b. Step Two:

(1) Who:

30a: and these whom He predestined,

(2) What:

30b: He also called;

c. Step Three:

(1) Who:

30c: and these whom He called,

(2) What:

30d: He also justified;

d. Step Four:

(1) Who:

30e: and these whom He justified,

(2) What:

30f: He also glorified.

To Table of Contents
Romans 8:31-39

**SUMMARY:** These verses are the conclusion to the second major section of this letter in which Paul declares the righteousness demanded by God has been made available by faith in Jesus Christ apart from the Law. Paul asks, in light of all God has done, what more could we ask. We are eternally secure; no one can ever condemn us or separate us from His love.

I. The Question (Verse 8:31)

31a: What then shall we say to these things?

II. The Answer (Verses 8:31-39)

A. No One Can Oppose Us:

1. The Condition — **IF:**

31b: If God is for us,

2. The Question — **THEN:**

31c: who is against us?

3. (The Implied Answer — **No one!** )

B. God Will Grant Us All Things:

1. The Condition — **IF:**

a. Negative:

32a: He who did not spare His own Son,

b. Positive:

32b: but delivered Him over for us all,

2. The Question — **THEN:**

32c: how will He not also with Him freely give us all things?

3. (The Implied Answer — **He will!** )

C. No One Can Condemn Us:

1. The Initial Question:

33a: Who will bring a charge against God's elect?

2. The Condition — **IF:**

33b: God is the one who justifies;

3. The Next Question — **THEN:**

34a: who is the one who condemns?

4. (The Implied Answer — **No one!** )

D. Nothing Can Separate Us From the Love of God Through Christ:

1. The Condition — **IF:**

a. His Death:

34b: Christ Jesus is He who died,

b. His Resurrection:

34c: yes, rather who was raised,

c. His Ascension:

34d: who is at the right hand of God,

d. His Intercession:

34e: who also intercedes for us.

2. The Questions — **THEN:**

a. First:

35a: Who will separate us from the love of Christ?

b. Second:

35b: Will tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?

c. The Quotation: _(Psalm 44:22)_

36: Just as it is written,  
"FOR YOUR SAKE WE ARE BEING PUT TO DEATH ALL DAY LONG;  
WE WERE CONSIDERED AS SHEEP TO BE SLAUGHTERED."

3. The Stated Answer:

a. The Statement:

37: But in all these things we overwhelmingly conquer through Him who loved us.

b. The Explanation:

(1) The Conviction:

38a: For I am convinced that

(2) The List:

(a) One:

38b: neither death, nor life,

(b) Two:

38c: nor angels, nor principalities,

(c) Three:

38d: nor things present, nor things to come,

(d) Four:

38e: nor powers,

(e) Five:

39a: nor height, nor depth,

(f) Six:

39b: nor any other created thing,

(3) The Security:

39c: will be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.

To Table of Contents
Romans 9:1-5

**SUMMARY:** Now that Paul has explained justification by faith apart from the Law for both Jew and Gentile, there are going to be some troubling questions for the readers of this letter, especially Jewish believers, concerning the place and the future of the nation of Israel. What about Israel? Has God given up on her? What about all the promises He made to the nation? Paul now deals with these questions in this third major section of the book of Romans. He introduces this section by reminding his readers of his deep grief and concern for his people, the nation of Israel.

I. Paul's Grief for His People (Verses 9:1-2)

A. The affirmations:

1. The Positive:

1a: I am telling the truth in Christ,

2. The Negative:

1b: I am not lying,

3. The Witness:

1c: my conscience testifies with me in the Holy Spirit,

B. The Statement:

2: that I have great sorrow and unceasing grief in my heart.

II. Paul's Wish for His People (Verse 9:3)

A. The Sacrifice:

3a: For I could wish that I myself were accursed, separated from Christ

B. The Benefici ary:

3b: for the sake of my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh,

III. Paul's Description of His Brethren (Verses 9:4-5)

A. First:

4a: who are Israelites,

B. Second:

4b: to whom belongs the adoption as sons,

C. Third:

4c: and the glory

D. Fourth:

4d: and the covenants

E. Fifth:

4e: and the giving of the Law

F. Sixth:

4f: and the temple service

G. Seventh:

4f: and the promises,

H. Eighth:

5a: whose are the fathers,

I. Ninth:

1. The Person:

5b: and from whom is the Christ according to the flesh,

2. The Praise:

5c: who is over all, God blessed forever. Amen.

To Table of Contents
Romans 9:6-13

**SUMMARY:** The Apostle now states a very important truth. God's plan for Israel is on course, it has not run aground. In order to understand this concept we must understand that not everyone who is Jewish by birth is truly part of the elect spiritual people of Israel. Look at the children of Abraham and Isaac for example.

I. The Idea Stated (Verse 9:6)

6a: But it is not as though the word of God has failed.

II. The Idea Explained (Verses 9:6-13)

A. The Principle Stated:

1. Stated:

6b: For they are not all Israel who are descended from Israel;

2. Restated:

a. The Idea:

7a: nor are they all children because they are Abraham's descendants,

b. The Scripture: _(Genesis 21:12)_

7b: but: "THROUGH ISAAC YOUR DESCENDANTS WILL BE NAMED."

B. The Principle Explained:

1. Those who are not:

8a: That is, it is not the children of the flesh who are children of God,

2. Those who are:

8b: but the children of the promise are regarded as descendants.

C. The Principle illustrated:

1. Isaac not Ishmael: _(Genesis 18:10)_

9: For this is the word of promise:   
"AT THIS TIME I WILL COME, AND SARAH SHALL HAVE A SON."

2. Jacob not Esau

a. The Circumstances:

(1) The Parents:

10: And not only this, but there was Rebekah also, when she had conceived twins by one man, our father Isaac;

(2) The Children:

(a) When:

11a: for though the twins were not yet born

(b) What:

11b: and had not done anything good or bad,

b. The Reason:

(1) God's Choice:

11c: so that God's purpose according to His choice would stand,

(2) Not Man's Works:

11d: not because of works but because of Him who calls,

c. The Promise:

(1) First: _(Genesis 25:23)_

12: it was said to her,   
"THE OLDER WILL SERVE THE YOUNGER."

(2) Second: _(Malachai 1:2-3)_

13: Just as it is written,   
"JACOB I LOVED, BUT ESAU I HATED."

To Table of Contents
Romans 9:14-33

**SUMMARY:** Now that Paul has raised the issue of God's election in the example of Jacob and Esau, two important questions are raised. Paul anticipates these and answers them. First, does this not make God unfair to elect some and not others? Answer: No, it is His divine prerogative! Second, How can God condemn someone He did not elect? Answer: Who are we to question God? God's plan all along was to choose a remnant of Israel so that the Gentiles might find God's righteousness.

I. Question: Does This Make God Unjust? (Verses 9:14-18)

A. The Question and Answer:

1. The Questions:

a. First:

14a: What shall we say then?

b. Second:

14b: There is no injustice with God, is there?

2. The Answer:

14c: May it never be!

B. The Discussion:

1. First Argument:

a. The Scripture: _(Exodus 33:19)_

15: For He says to Moses,   
"I WILL HAVE MERCY ON WHOM I HAVE MERCY, AND I WILL HAVE COMPASSION ON WHOM I HAVE COMPASSION."

b. The Conclusion:

(1) Negatively

16a: So then it does not depend on the man who wills or the man who runs,

(2) Positively

16b: but on God who has mercy.

2. Second Argument:

a. The Scripture: _(Exodus 9:16)_

17: For the Scripture says to Pharaoh,   
"FOR THIS VERY PURPOSE I RAISED YOU UP, TO DEMONSTRATE MY POWER IN YOU, AND THAT MY NAME MIGHT BE PROCLAIMED THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE EARTH."

b. The Conclusion:

(1) Positively:

18a: So then He has mercy on whom He desires,

(2) Negatively:

18b: and He hardens whom He desires.

II. Question: How Can He Then Judge? (Verses 9:19-21)

A. The Question:

1. The Objection:

19a: You will say to me then, "Why does He still find fault?

2. The Reason:

19b: For who resists His will?"

. The Answer:

1. Rhetorical Question One:

20a: On the contrary, who are you, O man, who answers back to God?

2. Rhetorical Question Two:

20b: The thing molded will not say to the molder, "Why did you make me like this," will it?

3. Rhetorical Question Three:

21: Or does not the potter have a right over the clay, to make from the same lump one vessel for honorable use and another for common use?

III. God's Purpose in His Election (Verses 9:22-29)

A. The Principles:

1. Rhetorical Question — God's Actions:

a. His Judgment and Power:

22a: What if God, although willing to demonstrate His wrath and to make His power known,

b. His Patience:

22b: endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction?

2. The Statement — God's Purpose:

a. His Purpose:

23a: And He did so to make known the riches of His glory

b. The Recipients:

(1) Their Preparation:

23b: upon vessels of mercy, which He prepared beforehand for glory,

(2) Their Calling:

24a: even us, whom He also called

(a) Jews:

24b: not from among Jews only,

(b) Gentiles:

24c: but also from among Gentiles.

B. The Scriptures:

1. The First Reference: _(Hosea 2:23)_

25: As He says also in Hosea,   
"I WILL CALL THOSE WHO WERE NOT MY PEOPLE, 'MY PEOPLE,'   
AND HER WHO WAS NOT BELOVED, 'BELOVED.' "

2. The Second Reference: _(Hosea 1:10)_

26: "AND IT SHALL BE THAT IN THE PLACE WHERE IT WAS SAID TO THEM, 'YOU ARE NOT MY PEOPLE,'   
THERE THEY SHALL BE CALLED SONS OF THE LIVING GOD."

3. The Third Reference: _(Isaiah 10:22-23)_

27-28: Isaiah cries out concerning Israel,   
"THOUGH THE NUMBER OF THE SONS OF ISRAEL BE LIKE THE SAND OF THE SEA, IT IS THE REMNANT THAT WILL BE SAVED;   
FOR THE LORD WILL EXECUTE HIS WORD ON THE EARTH, THOROUGHLY AND QUICKLY."

4. The Fourth Reference: _(Isaiah 1:9)_

29: And just as Isaiah foretold   
"UNLESS THE LORD OF SABAOTH HAD LEFT TO US A POSTERITY,   
WE WOULD HAVE BECOME LIKE SODOM, AND WOULD HAVE RESEMBLED GOMORRAH."

IV. Conclusion (Verses 9:30-33)

A. First:

1. The Question:

30a: What shall we say then?

2. The Answer:

a. Gentiles Attain Righteousness:

30b: That Gentiles, who did not pursue righteousness, attained righteousness, even the righteousness which is by faith;

b. Israel did not:

31: but Israel, pursuing a law of righteousness, did not arrive at that law.

B. Second:

1. The Question:

32a: Why?

2. The Answer:

a. Their Lack:

32b: Because they did not pursue it by faith,

b. Their Self Efforts:

32c: but as though it were by works.

c. Their Failure:

32d: They stumbled over the stumbling stone,

3. The Scripture: _(Isaiah 28:16)_

33: just as it is written,   
"BEHOLD, I LAY IN ZION A STONE OF STUMBLING AND A ROCK OF OFFENSE,   
AND HE WHO BELIEVES IN HIM WILL NOT BE DISAPPOINTED."

To Table of Contents
Romans 10:1-21

**SUMMARY:** The Apostle has emphasized God's sovereignty. God is God. He can choose or not choose whom He wills; who are we to question Him! Now he declares the flip side of the coin, namely man's responsibility. He tells his readers that Israel is judged because they rejected the message that righteousness came by faith. Israel both heard the message and understood it; yet they rejected it.

I. Introduction (Verses 10:1-4)

A. Paul's Prayer & Desire:

1: Brethren, my heart's desire and my prayer to God for them is for their salvation.

B. Paul's Testimony for Israel:

1. The Statement:

2a: For I testify a bout them that

a. The Positive:

2b: they have a zeal for God,

b. The Negative:

2c: but not in accordance with knowledge.

2. The Explanat ion:

a. Their Ignorance:

3a: For not knowing about God's righteousness

b. Their Goal:

3b: and seeking to establish their own,

c. Their Failure:

(1) The Statement:

3c: they did not subject themselves to the righteousness of God.

(2) The Explanation:

4: For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes.

II. The Testimony to the Message of Faith (verses 10:5-13)

A. To the Righteousness of the Law:

1. The Author:

5a: For Moses writes that

2. The Subject:

a. The Person:

5b: the man who practices the righteousness which is based on law

b. The Requirement:

5c: shall live by that righteousness.

B. To the Righteousness of Faith:

6a: But the righteousness based on faith speaks as follows:

1. It Does Not Come by Doing Great Works:

a. First:

(1) The Scripture: _(Deuteronomy 30:12)_

6b: "DO NOT SAY IN YOUR HEART, 'WHO WILL ASCEND INTO HEAVEN?'

(2) The Explanation:

6c: (that is, to bring Christ down)

b. Second:

(1) The Scripture: _(Deuteronomy 30:13)_

7a: or 'WHO WILL DESCEND INTO THE ABYSS ?'

(2) The Explanation:

7b: (that is, to bring Christ up from the dead)."

2. But It Comes by Faith:

a. The Scripture: _(Deuteronomy 30:14)_

8a: But what does it say? "THE WORD IS NEAR YOU, in your mouth and in your heart"

b. The Explanation:

8b: —that is, the word of faith which we are preaching,

3. This Faith is in the Lord Jesus:

a. The Statement:

(1) First Part:

9a: that if you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord,

(2) Second Part:

9b: and believe in your heart that that God raised Him from the dead,

(3) Result:

9c: you will be saved;

b. The Explanation:

(1) Second Part:

10a: for with the heart a person believes, resulting in righteousness,

(2) First Part:

10b: and with the mouth he confesses, resulting in salvation.

c. The Scripture _(Isaiah 28:16:)_

11: "WHOEVER BELIEVES IN HIM WILL NOT BE DISAPPOINTED."

4. And It Is for Jew and Gentile Alike:

a. The Statement:

12a: For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek;

b. The Explanation:

12b: for the same Lord is Lord of all, abounding in riches for all who call on Him;

c. The Scripture _(Joel 2:32:)_

13: for "WHOEVER WILL CALL ON THE NAME OF THE LORD WILL BE SAVED."

III. The Failure of Israel to Believe (Verses 10:14-21)

A. Background to the Objections:

1. The Progression to Faith:

a. First:

14a: How then will they call on Him in whom they have not believed?

b. Second:

14b: How will they believe in Him whom they have not heard?

c. Third:

14c: And how will they hear without a preacher?

d. Fourth:

(1) The Question:

15a: How will they preach unless they are sent?

(2) The Scripture: _(Isaiah 52:7)_

15b: Just as it is written, "HOW BEAUTIFUL ARE THE FEET OF THOSE WHO BRING GOOD NEWS OF GOOD THINGS!"

2. Israel's Failure:

a. The Statement:

16a: However, they did not all heed the good news;

b. The Scripture: _(Isaiah 53:1)_

16b: for Isaiah says, "LORD, WHO HAS BELIEVED OUR REPORT?"

3. Summary:

a. First:

17a: So faith comes from hearing,

b. Second:

17b: and hearing by the word of Christ.

B. The Objections:

1. The First Objection:

a. The Question:

18a: But I say, surely they have never heard, have they?

b. The Answer:

(1) The Statement:

18b: Indeed they have;

(2) The Scripture: _(Psalm 19:4)_

18c: "THEIR VOICE HAS GONE OUT INTO ALL THE EARTH,   
AND THEIR WORDS TO THE ENDS OF THE WORLD."

2. The Second Objection:

a. The Question:

19a: But I say, surely Israel did not know, did they?

b. The Answer:

(1) The First Scripture: _(Deuteronomy 32:21)_

19b: First Moses says, "I WILL MAKE YOU JEALOUS BY THAT WHICH IS NOT A NATION,   
BY A NATION WITHOUT UNDERSTANDING WILL I ANGER YOU."

(2) The Second Scripture: _(Isaiah 65:1)_

20: And Isaiah is very bold and says, "I WAS FOUND BY THOSE WHO DID NOT SEEK ME,   
I BECAME MANIFEST TO THOSE WHO DID NOT ASK FOR ME."

(3) The Third Scripture: _(Isaiah 65:2)_

21: But as for Israel He says, "ALL THE DAY LONG I HAVE STRETCHED OUT MY HANDS TO A DISOBEDIENT AND OBSTINATE PEOPLE."

To Table of Contents
Romans 11:1-10

**SUMMARY:** The question now arises, has God rejected His people? Paul answers this, certainly not! He explains that just as He did in Israel's past history so now God has chosen to preserve a remnant by grace to be faithful.

I. Introductory Question and Answer (Verse 11:1)

A. The Question:

1a: I say then, God has not rejected His people, has He?

B. The Answer:

1b: May it never be!

C. The Personal Proof:

1c: For I too am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.

II. A Remnant Is Reserved by Grace (Verses 11:2-6)

A. The Statement:

2a: God has not rejected His people whom He foreknew.

B. The Past Example:

1. Introductory Question:

2b: Or do you not know what the Scripture says in the passage about Elijah, how he pleads with God against Israel?

2. Elijah's Complaint: _(I Kings 11:14 & 19)_

3: "Lord, THEY HAVE KILLED YOUR PROPHETS, THEY HAVE TORN DOWN YOUR ALTARS, AND I ALONE AM LEFT, AND THEY ARE SEEKING MY LIFE."

3. God's Answer:

a. The Question:

4a: But what is the divine response to him?

b. The Scripture: _(I Kings 19:18)_

4b: "I HAVE KEPT for Myself SEVEN THOUSAND MEN WHO HAVE NOT BOWED THE KNEE TO BAAL."

C. The Present Time:

1. The Remnant:

5a: In the same way then, there has also come to be at the present time a remnant

2. Their Election:

a. The Positive:

5b: according to God's gracious choice.

b. The Negative:

(1) The Statement:

(a) **IF:**

6a: But if it is by grace,

(b) **THEN:**

6b: it is no longer on the basis of works,

(2) The Reason:

6c: otherwise grace is no longer grace.

III. Conclusion (Verses 11:7-10)

A. The Statements:

1. Israel's Failure:

7a: What then? What Israel is seeking, it has not obtained,

2. The Elect's (of Israel) Success:

7b: but those who were chosen obtained it,

3. Israel's Hardening:

7c: and the rest were hardened;

B. The Scriptures:

8a: just as it is written,

1. First: _(Isaiah 29:10)_

8b: "GOD GAVE THEM A SPIRIT OF STUPOR,

2. Second: _(Deuteronomy 29:4)_

8c: EYES TO SEE NOT AND EARS TO HEAR NOT,   
DOWN TO THIS VERY DAY."

3. Third: _(Psalm 69:22-23 - LXX)_

9-10: And David says, "LET THEIR TABLE BECOME A SNARE AND A TRAP,   
AND A STUMBLING BLOCK AND A RETRIBUTION TO THEM.   
LET THEIR EYES BE DARKENED TO SEE NOT,   
AND BEND THEIR BACKS FOREVER."

To Table of Contents
Romans 11:11-32

**SUMMARY:** Paul anticipates the question or objection that will arise at this point. Someone might say, "Granted there is a believing remnant, but is Israel not finished as a nation?" Paul clearly answers. Certainly not! Israel's failure now has brought salvation to the Gentiles. God can and will reinstate her. Someday all Israel will be saved!

I. Introductory Question (Verses 11:11-12)

A. The Question:

11a: I say then, they did not stumble so as to fall, did they?

B. The Answer:

11b: May it never be!

C. The Explanation:

1. Salvation for the Gentiles:

11c: But by their transgression salvation has come to the Gentiles, to make them ealous.

2. Fulfillment for Israel:

12: Now if their transgression is riches for the world and their failure is riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their fulfillment be!

II. Salvation Has Come to the Gentiles (Verses 11:13-24)

A. The Introduction:

1. The Address to the Readers:

a. The Readers:

13a: But I am speaking to you who are Gentiles.

b. The Writer's Ministry:

13b: Inasmuch then as I am an apostle of Gentiles, I magnify my ministry,

c. The Writer's Motive:

14: if somehow I might move to jealousy my fellow countrymen and save some of them.

2. The Principles Stated:

a. Their Rejection and Acceptance Completes our Salvation:

(1) **IF:**

15a: For if their rejection is the reconciliation of the world,

(2) **THEN:**

15b: what will their acceptance be but life from the dead?

b. Our Holiness Comes through Israel:

(1) The Idea Stated:

(1) **IF:**

16a: If the first piece of dough is holy,

(2) **THEN:**

16b: the lump is also;

(2) The Idea Restated:

(1) **IF:**

16c: and if the root is holy,

(2) **THEN:**

16d: the branches are too.

B. The Warnings to the Gentiles:

1. The First Warning:

a. **IF:**

(1) First:

17a: But if some of the branches were broken off,

(2) Second:

17b: and you, being a wild olive, were grafted in among them

(3) Third:

17c: and became partaker with them of the rich root of the olive tree,

b. **THEN:**

18a: do not be arrogant toward the branches;

2. The Second Warning:

a. **IF:**

18b: but if you are arrogant,

b. **THEN:**

18c: remember that it is not you who supports the root, but the root supports you.

3. The Objection:

a. The Objection:

19: You will say then, "Branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in."

b. The Reply:

(1) The First Point:

20a: Quite right, they were broken off for their unbelief,

(2) The Second Point:

20b: but you stand by your faith.

(3) The Warning:

20c: Do not be conceited, but fear;

(a) **IF:**

21a: for if God did not spare the natural branches,

(b) **THEN:**

21b: He will not spare you, either.

C. The Conclusion:

22a: Behold then the kindness and severity of God;

1. The Statement:

a. His Severity (Israel):

22b: to those who fell, severity,

b. His Kindness (Gentiles):

22c: but to you, God's kindness,

2. The Conditions:

a. For the Gentiles:

(1) **IF:**

22d: if you continue in His kindness;

(2) **ELSE:**

22e: otherwise you also will be cut off.

b. For Israel:

(1) **IF:**

23a: And they also, if they do not continue in their unbelief,

(2) **THEN:**

23b: will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again.

(3) Explanation:

(a) **IF:**

24a: For if you were cut off from what is by nature a wild olive tree, and were grafted contrary to nature into a cultivated olive tree,

(b) **THEN:**

24b: how much more will these who are the natural branches be grafted into their own olive tree?

III. All Israel Will Some Day Be Saved (Verses 11:25-32)

A. The Introduction:

1. Paul's Desire:

25a: For I do not want you, brethren, to be uninformed of this mystery

2. Paul's Reason:

25b: —so that you will not be wise in your own estimation—

3. The Mystery:

a. The Hardening:

(1) What:

25c: that a partial hardening has happened to Israel

(2) How Long:

25d: until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in;

b. The Salvation:

26a: and so all Israel will be saved;

c. The Scriptures:

(1) _(Isaiah 59:20 LXX)_

26b: just as it is written, "THE DELIVERER WILL COME FROM ZION,   
HE WILL REMOVE UNGODLINESS FROM JACOB."

(2) _(Isaiah 59:21)_

27: "THIS IS MY COVENANT WITH THEM,   
WHEN I TAKE AWAY THEIR SINS."

B. The Present State of Israel:

1. First:

a. The Viewpoint:

28a: From the standpoint of the gospel

b. Their Status:

28b: they are enemies for your sake,

2. Second:

a. The Viewpoint:

28c: but from the standpoint of God's choice

b. Their Status:

(1) The Statement:

28d: they are beloved for the sake of the fathers;

(2) The Reason:

29: for the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable.

C. The Comparison:

1. Gentiles:

a. The Condition in the Past:

30a: For just as you once were disobedient to God,

b. The Condition Now:

(1) The Change:

30b: but now have been shown mercy

(2) The Reason:

30c: because of their disobedience,

2. Israel:

a. The Condition Now:

31a: so these also now have been disobedient,

b. The Condition to Come:

(1) The Reason:

31b: that because of the mercy shown to you

(2) The Change:

31c: they also may now be shown mercy.

3. The Conclusion:

a. The Judgment:

32a: For God has shut up all in disobedience

b. The Reason:

32b: so that He may show mercy to all.

To Table of Contents
Romans 11:33-36

**SUMMARY:** This is the conclusion to the third major section of the letter to Rome in which the Apostle Paul discusses questions which relate to the nation of Israel. What else can he do at this point except break out in praise of God? Praise Him for His immeasurable wisdom!

I. The Praise (Verse 11:33)

A. First:

33a: Oh, the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God!

B. Second:

33b: How unsearchable are His judgments and unfathomable His ways!

II. The Scriptures (Verses 11:34-35)

A. _(Isaiah 40:13 LXX)_

34: For WHO HAS KNOWN THE MIND OF THE LORD, OR WHO BECAME HIS COUNSELOR ?

B. _(Job 35:7 & 41:11)_

35: Or WHO HAS FIRST GIVEN TO HIM THAT IT MIGHT BE PAID BACK TO HIM AGAIN ?

III. The Benediction (Verse 11:36)

A. First:

36a: For from Him and through Him and to Him are all things.

B. Second:

36b: To Him be the glory forever. Amen.

To Table of Contents
Romans 12:1-2

**SUMMARY:** Paul now introduces the last major section of this great treatise on our faith. It is our response to what God has done for us. Because of God's mercy we should respond by living a life of sanctified and sacrificial worship. The remainder of this section explains how we are to do that.

I. The Reason (Verse 12:1)

A. The Plea:

1a: Therefore I urge you, brethren,

B. The Basis:

1b: by the mercies of God,

II. The Action (Verses 12:1-2)

A. Sacrifice:

1. The Command:

1c: to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice, acceptable to God,

2. The Explanation:

1d: which is your spiritual service of worship.

B. Sanctification:

1. The Command:

a.The Negative:

2a: And do not be conformed to this world,

b. The Positive:

(1) The Action:

2b: but be transformed

(2) The Means:

2c: by the renewing of your mind,

2. The Purpose:

2d: so that you may prove what the will of God is, that which is good and acceptable and perfect.

To Table of Contents
Romans 12:3-8

**SUMMARY:** Paul begins to explain how to live a life of sanctified and sacrificial worship by telling his readers that they should honestly evaluate the gifts that God has given them and exercise them accordingly.

I. We Must Honestly Evaluate Our Gifts (Verses 12:3-5)

A. The Exhortation:

1. Introduction:

a. The Means:

3a: For through the grace given to me

b. The Action:

3b: I say to everyone among you

2. Negatively:

3c: not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think;

3. Positively:

a. First:

3d: but to think so as to have sound judgment,

b. Second:

3e: as God has allotted to each a measure of faith.

B. The Explanation - A Comparison:

1. The Physical Body:

a. First:

4a: For just as we have many members in one body

b. Second:

4b: and all the members do not have the same function,

2. The body of Christ:

a. First:

5a: so we, who are many, are one body in Christ,

b. Second:

5b: and individually members one of another.

II. We Must Exercise Our Individual Gifts (Verses 12:6-8)

A. The Exhortation:

1. The Reason:

6a: Since we have gifts that differ according to the grace given to us,

2. The Command:

6b: each of us is to exercise them accordingly:

B. The Specific Examples:

1. Prophecy:

a. **IF:**

6c: if prophecy,

b. **THEN:**

6d: according to the proportion of his faith;

2. Service:

a. **IF:**

7a: if service,

b. **THEN:**

7b: in his serving;

3. Teaching:

a. Who:

7c: or he who teaches,

b. What:

7d: in his teaching;

4. Exhortation:

a. Who:

8a: or he who exhorts,

b. What:

8b: in his exhortation;

5. Giving:

a. Who:

8c: he who gives,

b. How:

8d: with liberality;

6. Leadership:

a. Who:

8e: he who leads,

b. How:

8f: with diligence;

7. Mercy:

a. Who:

8g: he who shows mercy,

b. How:

8h: with cheerfulness.

To Table of Contents
Romans 12:9-21

**SUMMARY:** This sanctified and sacrificial life is one in which our love is not hypocritical.

I. The Central Exhortation (Verse 12:9)

A. The Subject:

9a: Let love

B. The Quality:

9b: be without hypocrisy.

II. The Explanatory Exhortations (Verses 12:9-21)

A. Clear Moral Positions:

9c: Abhor what is evil; cling to what is good.

B. Brotherly Kindness:

10a: Be devoted to one another in brotherly love;

C. Unselfishness:

10b: give preference to one another in honor;

D. Diligent:

11a: not lagging behind in diligence,

E. Fervent:

11b: fervent in spirit,

F. Serving God:

11c: serving the Lord;

G. Rejoicing:

12a: rejoicing in hope,

H. Persevering:

12b: persevering in tribulation,

I. Prayerful:

12c: devoted to prayer,

J. Giving:

13a: contributing to the needs of the saints,

K. Hospitable:

13b: practicing hospitality.

L. Gracious under Persecution:

1. Stated:

14a: Bless those who persecute you;

2. Restated & Amplified:

14b: bless and do not curse.

M. Empathetic:

1. In Joy:

15a: Rejoice with those who rejoice,

2. In Sorrow:

15b: and weep with those who weep.

N. Humility:

1. First Positive:

16a: Be of the same mind toward one another;

2. First Negative:

16b: do not be haughty in mind,

3. Second Positive:

16c: but associate with the lowly.

4. Second Negative:

16d: Do not be wise in your own estimation.

O. Not Vindictive:

17a: Never pay back evil for evil to anyone.

P. Honorable:

17b: Respect what is right in the sight of all men.

Q. Peaceable:

18: If possible, so far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men.

R. Not Vengeful:

1. The Exhortation:

a. Negative:

19a: Never take your own revenge, beloved,

b. Positive:

19b: but leave room for the wrath of God,

2. The Scriptures:

a. _(Deuteronomy 32:35)_

19c: for it is written, "VENGEANCE IS MINE, I WILL REPAY," says the Lord.

b. _(Proverbs 25:21-22)_

20: "BUT IF YOUR ENEMY IS HUNGRY, FEED HIM, AND IF HE IS THIRSTY, GIVE HIM A DRINK; FOR IN SO DOING YOU WILL HEAP BURNING COALS ON HIS HEAD."

3. The Summary:

a. Negatively:

21a: Do not be overcome by evil,

b. Positively:

21b: but overcome evil with good.

To Table of Contents
Romans 13:1-7

**SUMMARY:** This sacrificial and sanctified life is one in obedience to those divinely placed in authority over us.

I. The Exhortation (Verse 13:1)

A. Who:

1a: Every person

B. What:

1b: is to be in subjection to the governing authorities.

II. The Explanation (Verses 13:1-5)

A. Authority is divinely established:

1. The Principles:

a. First:

1c: For there is no authority except from God,

b. Second:

1d: and those which exist are established by God.

2. The Applications:

a. First:

2a: Therefore whoever resists authority has opposed the ordinance of God;

b. Second:

2b: and they who have opposed will receive condemnation upon themselves.

B. Authority exists to judge evil:

1. The Principle Stated:

3a: For rulers are not a cause of fear for good behavior, but for evil.

2. The Positive:

a. The Question:

3b: Do you want to have no fear of authority?

b. The Answer:

3c: Do what is good

c. The Result:

3d: and you will have praise from the same;

d. The Reason:

4a: for it is a minister of God to you for good.

3. The Negative:

a. The Condition:

(1) **IF:**

4b: But if you do what is evil,

(2) **THEN:**

4c: be afraid;

b. The Reason:

(1) Stated:

4d: for it does not bear the sword for nothing;

(2) Explained:

4e: for it is a minister of God, an avenger who brings wrath on the one who practices evil.

III. The Application (Verses 13:6-7)

A. Be in Subjection:

1. The Necessity:

5a: Therefore it is necessary to be in subjection,

2. The Reasons:

a. The First:

5b: not only because of wrath,

b. The Second:

5c: but also for conscience' sake.

B. Pay your Taxes:

1. The Statement:

6a: For because of this you also pay taxes,

2. The Explanation:

6b: for rulers are servants of God, devoting themselves to this very thing.

C. Summary:

1. Generally:

7a: Render to all what is due them:

2. Specifically:

a. Taxes:

7b: tax to whom tax is due;

b. Customs:

7c: custom to whom custom;

c. Fear:

7d: fear to whom fear;

d. Honor:

7e: honor to whom honor.

To Table of Contents
Romans 13:8-14

**SUMMARY:** This sacrificial and sanctified life is one in which we love our neighbor because it is the fulfillment of the Law but abstain from the lusts of the flesh.

I. We Must Love (Verses 13:8-10)

A. The Exhortation:

1. The Negative:

8a: Owe nothing to anyone

2. The Positive:

8b: except to love one another;

B. The Explanation:

1. The Reason Stated:

8c: for he who loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law.

2. The Reason Explained:

a. The Commands:

(1) _(Exodus 20:14)_

9a: For this, "YOU SHALL NOT COMMIT ADULTERY,

(2) _(Exodus 20:13)_

9b: YOU SHALL NOT MURDER,

(3) _(Exodus 20:15)_

9c: YOU SHALL NOT STEAL,

(4) _(EXODUS 20:17)_

9d: YOU SHALL NOT COVET,"

b. The Condensation:

(1) **IF:**

9e: and if there is any other commandment,

(2) **THEN:**

(a) Statement:

9f: it is summed up in this saying,

(b) _(LEVITICUS 19:18)_

9g: "YOU SHALL LOVE YOUR NEIGHBOR AS YOURSELF."

3. The Summary:

a. The Reason:

10a: Love does no wrong to a neighbor;

b. The Statement:

10b: therefore love is the fulfillment of the law.

II. We Must Not Lust (Verses 13:11-14)

A. The Explanation:

1. The Statement:

11a: Do this, knowing the time,

2. The Description:

11b: that it is already the hour for you to awaken from sleep;

3. The Explanation:

a. First:

11c: for now salvation is nearer to us than when we believed.

b. Second:

12a: The night is almost gone, and the day is near.

B. The Exhortations:

1. First:

a. Negatively:

12b: Therefore let us lay aside the deeds of darkness

b. Positively:

12c: and put on the armor of light.

2. Second:

a. Positively:

13a: Let us behave properly as in the day,

b. Negatively:

(1) Alcoholism:

13b: not in carousing and drunkenness,

(2) Immorality:

13c: not in sexual promiscuity and sensuality,

(3) Violence:

13d: not in strife and jealousy.

3. Third:

a. Positively:

14a: But put on the Lord Jesus Christ,

b. Negatively:

14b: and make no provision for the flesh in regard to its lusts.

To Table of Contents
Romans 14:1-12

**SUMMARY:** This sacrificial and sanctified life is one in which we live in harmony with those of differing opinions. Paul is writing to a church that has both Jewish and Gentile segments. These segments often clashed, especially in regard to the observance of Jewish ceremonial law. Therefore the Apostle instructs some (Gentiles) not to scorn those (Jews) who did not exercise the freedom they had, and others (Jews), not to condemn those (Gentiles) who exercised freedoms they did not have.

I. The General Exhortation (Verse 14:1)

A. The Positive:

1a: Now accept the one who is weak in faith,

B. The Negative:

1b: but not for the purpose of passing judgment on his opinions.

II. The Specific Exhortations (Verses 14:2-5)

A. Case One:

1. The Issue:

a. One Man:

2a: One person has faith that he may eat all things,

b. Another Man:

2b: but he who is weak eats vegetables only.

2. The Instructions:

a. Non-vegetarian:

3a: The one who eats is not to regard with contempt the one who does not eat,

b. Vegetarian:

(1) Exhortation:

3b: and the one who does not eat is not to judge the one who eats,

(2) Explanation:

(a) Statement:

3c: for God has accepted him.

(b) Question:

4a: Who are you to judge the servant of another?

(c) Principle:

4b: To his own master he stands or falls;

(d) Promise:

4c: and he will stand, for the Lord is able to make him stand.

B. Case Two:

1. The Issue:

a. One Man:

5a: One person regards one day above another,

b. Another Man:

5b: another regards every day alike.

2. The Instructions:

5c: Each person must be fully convinced in his own mind.

III. The Explanation (Verses 14:6-9)

A. The Specific Examples:

1. First:

Who:

6a: He who observes the day,

What:

6b: observes it for the Lord,

2. Second:

Who:

6c: and he who eats,

What:

6d: does so for the Lord, for he gives thanks to God;

3. Third:

Who:

6e: and he who eats not,

What:

6f: for the Lord he does not eat, and gives thanks to God.

B. The General Principles:

1. Negatively:

7: For not one of us lives for himself, and not one dies for himself;

2. Positively:

a. First:

(1) **IF:**

8a: for if we live,

(2) **THEN:**

8b: we live for the Lord,

b. Second:

(1) **IF:**

8c: or if we die,

(2) **THEN:**

8d: we die for the Lord;

3. Conclusion:

a. The Statement:

8e: therefore whether we live or die, we are the Lord's.

b. The Reason:

(1) What:

9a: For to this end Christ died and lived again,

(2) Why:

9b: that He might be Lord both of the dead and of the living.

IV. Conclusion (Verses 14:10-12)

A. The Questions:

1. First:

10a: But you, why do you judge your brother?

2. Second:

10b: Or you again, why do you regard your brother with contempt?

B. The Explanation:

1. The Statement:

10c: For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God.

2. The Scripture _(Isaiah 45:23):_

11: For it is written, "AS I LIVE, SAYS THE LORD, EVERY KNEE SHALL BOW TO ME, AND EVERY TONGUE SHALL GIVE PRAISE TO GOD."

3. The Conclusion:

12: So then each one of us will give an account of himself to God.

To Table of Contents
Romans 14:13-23

**SUMMARY:** In instructing his readers how to live in harmony with one another, Paul exhorts some (Gentiles) not to exercise their freedom of faith in such a way that it harms other believers (Jews).

I. The First Issue (Verses 14:13-15)

A. The Initial Exhortation:

1. The Negative:

13a: Therefore let us not judge one another anymore,

2. The Positive:

13b: but rather determine this--not to put an obstacle or a stumbling block in a brother's way.

B. The Relevant Principles:

1. First:

a. The Certainty:

14a: I know and am convinced in the Lord Jesus

b. The Issue:

14b: that nothing is unclean in itself;

2. Second:

14c: but to him who thinks anything to be unclean, to him it is unclean.

3. Third:

a. **IF:**

15a: For if because of food your brother is hurt,

b. **THEN:**

15b: you are no longer walking according to love.

C. The Concluding Exhortation:

15c: Do not destroy with your food him for whom Christ died.

II. The Second Issue (Verses 14:16-20)

A. The Initial Exhortation:

16: Therefore do not let what is for you a good thing be spoken of as evil;

B. The Relevant Principles:

1. First:

a. The Negative:

17a: for the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking,

b. The Positive:

17b: but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.

2. Second:

18: For he who in this way serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men.

3. Third:

a. The Action:

19a: So then we pursue

b. The Objects:

(1) First:

19b: the things which make for peace

(2) Second:

19c: and the building up of one another.

C. The Concluding Exhortation:

20a: Do not tear down the work of God for the sake of food.

III. The Conclusion (Verses 14:20-23)

A. The Principles Restated:

1. First:

20b: All things indeed are clean,

2. Second:

20c: but they are evil for the man who eats and gives offense.

B. The Applications Made:

1. First:

21: It is good not to eat meat or to drink wine, or to do anything by which your brother stumbles.

2. Second:

a. The Action:

22a: The faith which you have, have as your own conviction before God.

b. The Attitude:

22b: Happy is he who does not condemn himself in what he approves.

3. Third:

a. Conclusion:

23a: But he who doubts is condemned if he eats,

b. Minor Premise:

23b: because his eating is not from faith;

c. Major Premise:

23c: and whatever is not from faith is sin.

To Table of Contents
Romans 15:1-13

**SUMMARY:** Finally in his instruction on how to live in harmony with one another he instructs both groups (Jew and Gentile) to follow the example of the Lord Jesus Christ to bear each other's weaknesses and to accept one another.

I. The First Example (Verses 15:1-6)

A. The Exhortation:

1. The Ethical Principles:

a. The Positive:

1a: Now we who are strong ought to bear the weaknesses of those without strength

b. The Negative:

1b: and not just please ourselves.

2. The Exhortation:

2: Each of us i s to please his neighbor for his good, to his edification.

B. The Example of Christ:

1. The Statement:

3a: For even Christ did not please Himself;

The Scripture _(Psalm 69:9):_

3b: but as i t is written, "THE REPROACHES OF THOSE WHO REPROACHED YOU FELL ON ME."

3. The Explanation:

a. What

4a: For whatever was written in earlier times was written for our instruction,

b. Why

4b: so that thr ough perseverance and the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope.

C. The Prayer:

1. The Description:

5a: Now may the God who gives perseverance and encouragement

2. The Request:

5b: grant you to b e of the same mind with one another according to Christ Jesus,

3. The Reason:

a. How:

6a: so that with one accord you may with one voice

b. What:

6b: glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.

II. The Second Example (Verses 15:7-13)

A. The Exhortation:

1. The Action:

7a: Therefore, ac cept one another,

2. The Standard:

7b: just as Christ also accepted us to the glory of God.

B. The Example of Christ:

8a: For I say that Ch rist has become a servant

1. In Respect to the Jews:

a. The Statement:

8b: to the circumcision

b. The Purpose:

8c: on behalf of the truth of God to confirm the promises given to the fathers,

2. In Respect to the Gentiles:

a. The Statement:

9a: and for the Gentiles

b. The Purpose:

9b: to glorify God for His mercy;

c. The Scriptures:

(1) _(Psalm 18:49):_

9c: as it is written,   
"THEREFORE I WILL GIVE PRAISE TO YOU AMONG THE GENTILES,   
AND I WILL SING TO YOUR NAME."

(2) _(Deuteronomy 32:43):_

10: Again he says,   
"REJOICE, O GENTILES, WITH HIS PEOPLE."

(3) _(Psalm 117:1):_

11: And again,   
"PRAISE THE LORD ALL YOU GENTILES,   
AND LET ALL THE PEOPLES PRAISE HIM."

(4) _(Isaiah 11:10):_

12: Again Isaiah says,   
"THERE SHALL COME THE ROOT OF JESSE,   
AND HE WHO ARISES TO RULE OVER THE GENTILES,   
IN HIM SHALL THE GENTILES HOPE."

C. The Prayer:

1. The Description:

13a: Now may the God of hope

2. The Request:

13b: fill you with all joy and peace in believing,

3. The Reason:

a. What:

13c: so that you will abound in hope

b. How:

13d: by the power of the Holy Spirit.

To Table of Contents
Romans 15:14-21

**SUMMARY:** Paul has finished the fourth major section of the book of Romans. Now he concludes this letter with some personal notes, plans and greetings.

I. The Apostle's Praise and Purpose (Verses 15:14-16)

A. Paul's Praise:

1. The Conviction:

14a: And concerning you, my brethren, I myself also am convinced

2. The Qualities:

a. First:

14b: that you yourselves are full of goodness,

b. Second:

14c: filled with all knowledge

c. Third:

14d: and able also to admonish one another.

B. Paul's Purpose:

1. His Action:

15a: But I have written very boldly to you on some points

2. His Goal:

15b: so as to remind you again,

3. His Authority:

a. The Grace Given:

15c: because of the grace that was given me from God,

b. The Position Obtained:

16a: to be a minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles, ministering as a priest the gospel of God,

c. The Sacrifice Rendered:

16b: so that my offering of the Gentiles may become acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Spirit.

II. The Apostle's Boast (Verses 15:17-19)

A. The Introductory Statement:

17: Therefore in Christ Jesus I have found reason for boasting in things pertaining to God.

B. The Explanation:

1. The Lord's Work:

a. The Affirmation:

18a: For I will not presume to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me,

b. The Results:

18b: resulting in the obedience of the Gentiles by word and deed,

c. The Manner:

19a: in the power of signs and wonders,

d. The Means:

19b: in the power of the Spirit;

2. The Servant's Success:

a. The Area:

19c: so that from Jerusalem and round about as far as Illyricum

b. The Action:

19d: I have fully preached the gospel of Christ.

III. The Apostle's Aspiration (Verses 15:20-21)

A. The Statement:

1. The Desire:

20a: And thus I aspired to preach the gospel, not where Christ was already named,

2. The Reason:

20b: so that I would not build on another man's foundation;

B. The Scripture _(Isaiah 52:15):_

21: but as it is written,   
"THEY WHO HAD NO NEWS OF HIM SHALL SEE,   
AND THEY WHO HAVE NOT HEARD SHALL UNDERSTAND."

To Table of Contents
Romans 15:22-33

**SUMMARY:** The Apostle Paul informs them of his desire and plans to visit them at Rome and requests their prayer for his upcoming trip to Jerusalem and then his journey to see them on his way to Spain.

I. The Apostle's Plans (Verses 15:22-29)

A. The Past Hindrance:

22: For this reason I have often been prevented from coming to you;

B. The Future Plans:

1. His Circumstances:

a. His Ministry:

23a: but now, with no further place for me in these regions,

b. His Desire:

23a-24a: and since I have had for many years a longing to come to you whenever I go to Spain

2. His Hopes:

a. First:

24b: —for I hope to see you in passing,

b. Second:

24c: and to be helped on my way there by you,

c. Third:

24d: when I have first enjoyed your company for a while—

C. The Present Plans:

1. The Statement:

25: but now, I am going to Jerusalem serving the saints.

2. The Explanation:

a. The Contribution:

26: For Macedonia and Achaia have been pleased to make a contribution for the poor among the saints in Jerusalem.

b. The Attitude:

27a: Yes, they were pleased to do so,

c. The Debt:

(1) The Declaration:

27b: and they are indebted to them.

(2) The Explanation:

(a) **IF:**

27c: For if the Gentiles have shared in their spiritual things,

(b) **THEN:**

27d: they are indebted to minister to them also in material things.

D. The Summary:

1. The Intentions:

a. Initially:

(1) First:

28a: Therefore, when I have finished this,

(2) Second:

28b: and have put my seal on this fruit of theirs,

b. Secondly:

28c: I will go on by way of you to Spain.

2. The Conviction:

29: I know that when I come to you, I will come in the fullness of the blessing of Christ.

II. The Apostle's Request (Verses 15:30-33)

A. The General Request:

1. The Appeal:

30a: Now I urge you, brethren,

2. The Basis:

a. First:

30b: by our Lord Jesus Christ

b. Second:

30c: and by the love of the Spirit,

3. The Request:

30d: to strive together with me in your prayers to God for me,

B. The Specific Items:

1. First:

31a: that I may be rescued from those who are disobedient in Judea,

2. Second:

31b: and that my service for Jerusalem may prove acceptable to the saints;

3. Third:

32a: so that I may come to you in joy by the will of God

4. Fourth:

32b: and find refreshing rest in your company.

C. The Blessing:

33: Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen.

To Table of Contents
Romans 16:1-27

**SUMMARY:** In these last verses of Romans Paul concludes his letter with a commendation of Phoebe, who was bringing this letter to those at Rome, greetings to persons known personally by Paul and those with him and a warning to watch out for those who would cause dissension.

I. The Commendation (Verses 16:1-2)

A. The Commendation:

1a: I commend to you our sister Phoebe,

B. The Description:

1b: who is a servant of the church which is at Cenchrea;

C. The Instruction:

1. First:

2a: that you receive her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints,

2. Second:

2b: and that you help her in whatever matter she may have need of you;

D. The Reason:

2c: for she herself has also been a helper of many, and of myself as well.

II. The Greetings from Paul (Verses 16:3-16)

A. Prisca and Aquila:

1. The Instruction:

3a: Greet Prisca and Aquila,

2. The Description:

a. First:

3b: my fellow workers in Christ Jesus,

b. Second:

4a: who for my life risked their own necks,

c. Third:

4b: to whom not only do I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles;

B. Their Church:

5a: also greet the church that is in their house.

C. Epaenetus:

1. The Instruction:

5b: Greet Epaenetus,

2. The Description:

5c: my beloved, who is the first convert to Christ from Asia.

D. Mary

1. The Instruction:

6a: Greet Mary,

2. The Description:

6b: who has worked hard for you.

E. Andronicus and Junias:

1. The Instruction:

7a: Greet Andronicus and Junias,

2. The Description:

a. First:

7b: my kinsmen and my fellow prisoners,

b. Second:

7c: who are outstanding among the apostles,

c. Third:

7d: who also were in Christ before me.

F. Ampliatus:

1. The Instruction:

8a: Greet Ampliatus,

2. The Description:

8b: my beloved in the Lord.

G. Urbanus:

1. The Instruction:

9a: Greet Urbanus,

2. The Description:

9b: our fellow worker in Christ,

H. Stachys:

1. The Instruction:

9c: and Stachys

2. The Description:

9d: my beloved.

I. Apelles:

1. The Instruction:

10a: Greet Apelles,

2. The Description:

10b: the approved in Christ.

J. Household of Aristobulus:

10c: Greet those who are of the household of Aristobulus.

K. Herodion:

1. The Instruction:

11a: Greet Herodion,

2. The Description:

11b: my kinsman.

L. Household of Narcissus:

1. The Instruction:

11c: Greet those of the household of Narcissus,

2. The Description:

11d: who are in the Lord.

M. Tryphaena and Tryphosa:

1. The Instruction:

12a: Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa,

2. The Description:

12b: workers in the Lord.

N. Persis:

1. The Instruction:

12c: Greet Persis

2. The Description:

12d: the beloved, who has worked hard in the Lord.

O. Rufus:

1. The Instruction:

13a: Greet Rufus,

2. The Description:

13b: a choice man in the Lord,

P. His Mother:

13c: also his mother and mine.

Q. A Group of People:

1. The Instruction:

14a: Greet

2. The People:

14b: Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas and the brethren with them.

R. Another Group:

1. The Instruction:

15a: Greet

2. The People:

15b: Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them.

S. Each Other:

16a: Greet one another with a holy kiss.

III. The Greetings from the Churches (Verse 16:16)

A. The People:

16b: All the churches of Christ

B. The Greeting:

16c: greet you.

IV. The Warning (Verses 16:17-20)

A. The Appeal:

17a: Now I urge you, brethren,

B. The Exhortation:

1. First:

a. The Action:

17b: keep your eye on those

b. The Object:

17c: who cause dissensions and hindrances contrary to the teaching which you learned,

2. Second:

17d: and turn away from them.

C. The Explanation:

1. Their Master:

18a: For such men are slaves, not of our Lord Christ but of their own appetites;

2. Their Methods:

18b: and by their smooth and flattering speech they deceive the hearts of the unsuspecting.

D. The Commendation:

1. The Report:

19a: For the report of your obedience has reached to all;

2. The Rejoicing:

19b: therefore I am rejoicing over you,

3. The Wish:

19c: but I want you to be wise in what is good and innocent in what is evil.

E. The Conclusion:

1. The Promise:

20a: The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet.

2. The Prayer:

20b: The grace of our Lord Jesus be with you.

V. The Greetings from Others (Verses 16:21-24)

A. The Greetings:

1. From Timothy:

21a: Timothy my fellow worker greets you,

2. From Lucius, Jason and Sosipater:

21b: and so do Lucius and Jason and Sosipater, my kinsmen.

3. From Tertius:

22: I, Tertius, who write this letter, greet you in the Lord.

4. From Gaius:

23a: Gaius, host to me and to the whole church, greets you.

5. From Erastus:

23b: Erastus, the city treasurer greets you,

6. From Quartus:

23c: and Quartus, the brother.

B. The Benediction:

24: [The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.]

VI. The Doxology (Verses 16:25-27)

A. The First Dedication:

1. His Power:

25a: Now to Him who is able to establish you

2. Its Present Revelation:

a. First:

25b: according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ,

b. Second:

25c: according to the revelation of the mystery

(1) First Hidden:

25d: which has been kept secret for long ages past,

(2) Now Manifested:

26a: but now is manifested,

(3) And Proclaimed:

(a) The Basis:

26b: and by the Scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the eternal God,

(b) The Action:

26c: has been made known to all the nations,

(c) The Result:

26d: leading to obedience of faith;

B. The Second Dedication:

27a: to the only wise God, through Jesus Christ,

C. The Praise:

27b: be the glory forever. Amen.

To Table of Contents
Appendix 1

While the NASB text reads "who was declared the Son of God..." as do many other versions similarly, the Greek text is better translated as "who was appointed the Son of God...."

The prevalent view of the two descriptive statements in verses 3 and 4 of Romans chapter 1 is that they describe the human and divine natures of Christ. In this view, the first of these descriptive statements "who was born of a descendant of David according to the flesh," is taken to be a reference to our Lord's human nature. Likewise, in verse four, the second statement, "who was declared the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead, according to the Spirit of holiness," is seen as a reference to His deity. If this were Paul's intent, he is saying that the subject of the gospel is perfectly human, a descendant of David, and fully divine as proven by the resurrection from the dead.

While one must hold unreservedly to the full deity and perfect humanity of our Lord, it is better to see Paul's purpose to declare Jesus as the Messiah, the fulfillment of the promises made beforehand in the Scriptures. Let it not be doubted or questioned that our Lord is completely and perfectly human and at the same time fully divine. This truth must not be compromised. It is glimpsed in these verses, but only indirectly for it is not the apostle Paul's intention to declare this particular truth. His purpose rather is to declare that the subject of the gospel is the person of the Messiah, that He is qualified both physically and spiritually, that He has been appointed to this office, that He is in fact none other than Jesus Christ our Lord.

For a much fuller discussion of this issue, especially how it relates to the book of Romans, see the discussion by the author in the section entitled, _The Sonship of our Lord and Our Adoption as Children of God_ found on the author's website, D. Barton's Bible Notes.

To Table of Contents
Appendix 2

Almost all translators of the New Testament translate verse 1 of chapter 5 of Romans as a statement rather than an exhortation. The Greek texts at this verse contain two major variant readings. One reading has the subjunctive mood εχωμεν, which would be translated as an exhortation "let us have peace..."; while the other has the indicative εχομεν, which would be translated as "we have peace...." Even though the external manuscript evidence supports the use of the subjunctive far more than the indicative, editors of these texts usually opt to use the latter.

In _A Textual Commentary on the Greek New Testament_ , page 511, Bruce M. Metzger states,

_Although the subjunctive εχωμεν... has far better external support than the indicative εχομεν..., a majority of the Committee judged that internal evidence must here take precedence. Since in this passage it appears that Paul is not exhorting but stating facts ('peace' is the possession of those who have been justified), only the indicative is consonant with the apostle's argument._

The internal evidence which is used at this point is primarily the conviction that Paul would not have exhorted his readers to be at peace, but instead declared to them that they had peace. This is a decision which arises from one's theology. It is to be noted that this is itself strong internal evidence arguing against the use of the indicative. In his book, _An Introduction to New Testament Textual Criticism_ , J. Harold Greenlee states on page 115,

_The harder reading is often preferable. The reading which at first sight seems more difficult to explain in the context is likely to be the correct reading if further study shows that it makes sense. In other words, a scribe is more likely to change a word which gives difficulty into a word which seems easier to understand — changing either intentionally, or unintentionally to a word which is similar in appearance, or intentionally to a word which is related in meaning._

If the indicative is a stumbling block to the scholars of this day, it was certainly a stumbling block to the copyists in the early years of the transmission of the text. While it would be easy to see why a copyist would change from the subjunctive to the indicative, it is much more difficult to see why one would change from the indicative to the subjunctive. This along with the fact that the better and earlier manuscripts contain the subjunctive rather than the indicative lead to the conclusion that this must be what Paul originally wrote. The task at hand is not to change the text, but to understand what the Holy Spirit is saying at this point. On page 200 of his book, _A Grammar of the Greek New Testament in the Light of Historical Research_ A. T. Robertson states,

_...εχωμεν is supported by all the best documents and gives a difficult sense at first, though a better one on reflection than εχομεν._

While it might seem unusual at first glance that Paul would exhort us to something that we already possess, it is something that he clearly does later in this selfsame book. Note the argument in chapter 6:4-10 where Paul declares that we are dead to sin if we have indeed been baptized into the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord. Having developed that great truth, the apostle then exhorts us in verse 11, "Even so consider yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus." What is legally true must become a present reality in our lives.

There are several verb forms which are logically tied together in verses 1 through 11 of chapter 5: εχωμεν in verse 1, καυχωμεθα in verses 2 and 3 and possibly καυχωμενοι in verse 11. If the subjunctive reading is taken in verse 1 then the form καυχωμεθα represents a subjunctive form of the contract verb καυχαομαι; if the indicative is taken in verse 1, then καυχωμεθα represents an indicative form. It is best to take the best supported reading of the subjunctive in verse one and to understand this whole section is our response to the truths that Paul taught in the preceding chapter, namely that justification is by faith and that justification by faith was available to both Jew and Gentile alike. Because we have been justified by faith we can stop struggling trying to keep the law in order to please God. God has done it all! Let us continue to rest in that peace He has established; and not only that, let us exult in the hope of the glory of God, in our tribulations, and indeed in God Himself through our Lord Jesus Christ.

To Table of Contents
About The Author

The author is a graduate of Dallas Theological Seminary, a former pastor of Trinity Bible Church in Gulfport, Mississippi, and a former teacher at Muncie Christian School in Kansas City, Kansas.

The author still teaches Sunday School and occasionally fills in for his pastor at Calvary Bible Church in Bonner Springs, Kansas. He also has a Bible Study website, D. Barton's Bible Notes.

This book can be found online at the author's website.

To Table of Contents
