 
SMASHWORDS EDITION | COPYRIGHT 2019 Razor Blade and Lucian D. LaLuna.

THIS EBOOK IS LICENSED FOR YOUR PERSONAL ENJOYMENT ONLY. THIS EBOOK MAY NOT BE RE-SOLD OR GIVEN AWAY TO OTHER PEOPLE. IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SHARE THIS BOOK WITH ANOTHER PERSON, PLEASE PURCHASE AN ADDITIONAL COPY FOR EACH RECIPIENT. IF YOU'RE READING THIS BOOK AND DID NOT PURCHASE IT, OR IT WAS NOT PURCHASED FOR YOUR USE ONLY, THEN PLEASE RETURN TO SMASHWORDS.COM AND PURCHASE YOUR OWN COPY. THANK YOU FOR RESPECTING THE HARD WORK OF THIS AUTHOR.

# Ronaldo

# 

# Chapter 1

# Ronaldo

For most people five in the morning was way too early to be on the treadmill at the gym, but since Cindy had discovered Ronaldo working out in the weight room two months ago she never missed a day. The six foot four tanned well-muscled hulk of a man spent an hour benching, lifting and pulling weights and Cindy always used the treadmill closest to him to see the show. She would sometimes fight with other women to get them to let her use the machine of her choice. In the months she had been going to the gym she hadn't shed a pound off her two hundred and fifty pound frame but she didn't care. She ate all she wanted and it gave her an excuse to gawk at the man of her dreams.

Like clockwork, Ronaldo would saunter to the water fountain for a drink after benching and would pass Cindy on his way. She would try not to make it obvious that she was staring at his well-formed sweat dripping body and tight butt, but she knew somehow he could tell. But today was not like every day when her Greek God stopped at her treadmill on his way back and asked her a question. "I see you like to watch me in the when I lift," Ronaldo said in a sexy Italian accent.

Cindy was shocked that he would speak to her and almost stumbled as she tried to keep pace on the treadmill. "Oh, I don't know," was all she could come up with.

Ronaldo looked down at Cindy's massive bosom as it bounced up and down with each step she took "You are a very sexy women, I thought you should know that."

"Uh, thank you?" Cindy replied. She didn't know why he would say that and was surprised at his compliment.

"I see you work hard every day on this machine, I thought someone should tell you how desirable you are. You don't need to work yourself to death to please anyone. I like large women and you are perfect to me. Any man would be pleased to be with you. You are a sexy mama."

"I don't know what to say," Cindy replied avoiding his eyes. She was not shy but embarrassed that he had noticed her staring.

"Are you married?" Ronaldo asked. He didn't see a ring on her finger.

"Yes, but my husband is a piece of shit."

Ronaldo looked disappointed. "I am so sorry, I didn't want you..."

"That's ok," Cindy replied looking into Ronaldo's deep brown eyes. "I'm available."

"But how?"

"My husband is a loser––forget I mentioned him."

"But I could not with good conscience implicate you in an affair."

Cindy stopped the treadmill and hobbled off with her good leg. She stood before Ronaldo in her white skin tight workout top and bright pink leggings. Her cleavage down to the tops of her nipples. "Can we talk in private?" she asked.

"Why certainly," Ronaldo replied. "Where would you like to go?"

Cindy looked around the gym through the glass to the pool. "The hot tub, do you have time?"

"I have several hours available," Ronaldo replied. "But I did not bring a swimming suit."

Cindy cursed in her mind that she couldn't get the hot man in the tub with her. It was thirty degrees outside and too cold to sit in her car with him. "Let me think," she replied.

"Maybe we can go to the lounge and have some coffee while we chat."

Cindy preferred to rub her hand on his crotch under the water in the hot tub but the lounge would suffice for now. "That would be ok I guess," she replied disappointed.

Ronaldo led Cindy down the path from the treadmills, past the ellipticals to the lounge and opened the door for her like a gentlemen. She watched his butt as he walked and smiled as the other women watched her gawking at him like he was a Popsicle. As Cindy stepped through the glass door she looked back at all the housewives glaring at her. She smiled and smirked at them and the door closed.

"They only have regular and decaf coffee," Ronaldo stated. "They do have some French vanilla creamer though, it does look like a cheap store brand. I apologize. You would think a gym that cost's this much would have better to offer."

"I'll take the regular with creamer and two fake sugars," Cindy replied. She stared at the bulge in Ronaldo's shorts as he poured her coffee trying not to make it too obvious.

Ronaldo handed Cindy the coffee and sat down. "So what did you want to talk about?"

Taking a long sip on the rim of her Styrofoam cup Cindy replied. "Are you seeing anyone?"

"Yes, but it is not serious," Ronaldo replied.

"How serious?"

"She abuses me, on a regular basis."

"That is awful, why don't you leave her?"

"She pays for all I have. Because of her I don't have to work."

Cindy was surprised. "You don't have a job?"

"No, that is how I can spend so much time in the gym working out. The membership here is very expensive."

"I know," Cindy replied. "So you stay with her for the money? That is so wrong!"

"I agree, but it is the way it is."

"Why don't you get a job and leave her?"

"I am lazy, very lazy. All I like to do is work out, watch YouTube video's and play video games."

"Really?" Cindy replied droll. "Do you guys have sex?"

"Unfortunately yes," Ronaldo replied. "She is very old and disgusting and forces me to sleep with her."

"How old is she?"

"She is seventy nine years old. But very rich, don't forget that."

"So you are basically her 'boy toy?"

"I suppose you could say that," Ronaldo replied. "But she isn't happy with me now. I haven't been very good in bed she says."

Cindy was enthralled. "How can you not be good in bed?"

Ronaldo looked around the room ashamed, like he didn't want to discuss his sex life. "She is too skinny," he replied.

"How skinny is she?" Cindy asked.

"She is probably one hundred pounds. Like a skeleton. Not sexy like you."

Cindy perked up when Ronaldo gave her the compliment.

"You have nice large breasts and a wonderful round buttocks."

"Why thank you," Cindy replied with a smile.

"I would love to make love to a woman like you, but I can not because of the money."

The last of Cindy's coffee was gone and she set the cup on the side table. "What if she didn't find out?"

"She would know," Ronaldo replied. "She makes me wear a tracker on my ankle," he replied pointing to the band at his feet.

"What a cunt," Cindy replied. "That's so wrong."

"She wanted me to wear a camera but I refused," Ronaldo stated. "She is afraid I will cheat on her."

"Would you?" Cindy asked.

Silence.

"There must be a way to get around that thing" Cindy replied.

"I'm sure there is but I don't want to get in trouble. I don't want to find a job. I like my life, or at least most of it. I live in a very nice home, with a maid and servants. I can't afford to screw that up."

"So you have sex with an old lady so you can play video games on the couch all day?" Cindy asked.

"Yes, it is the burden I must contend with. Sometimes I feel I will break her in two, and those are the times she likes it the best. I don't understand her. One day I will kill her with my body."

Ronaldo stood up and grabbed Cindy's coffee cup. He turned and stepped over to the coffee pot and poured her another drink. As he turned Cindy noticed the bulge in his pants was now erect and she couldn't keep her eyes off his crotch. Ronaldo saw her eyes glaring at his privates and it made him happy. "You like?" Ronaldo asked. "I have a very large penis."

"Yes, very much," Cindy replied. "If you want to take care of that I can help."

With a wide grin Ronaldo replied, "I appreciate your offer, but where would we go? It is cold outside and the gym is now packed."

Disappointed Cindy shook her head. She had to be at work in two hours distracted at the thought of making love with her obsession. "Let me think," she replied.

"No, there is no way," Ronaldo replied. He turned so his erection was no longer visible, but now his ass was in full view. "Not as long as I am with her."

"What's her name?" Cindy asked.

"Helga Adler," Ronaldo replied.

"What the fuck?" Cindy asked.

"Are you familiar with Helga?"

"Is she the owner of Double Down Christian Publishing?"

"Yes she is, you must know her," Ronaldo replied.

"She is my boss, or should I say my boss's boss."

"Oh, so are you friends with her?"

Swallowing hard Cindy replied, "No, she's a fucking cunt. Everyone hates her."

"I see,"

"She is the most passive aggressive asshole I've ever met. She won't say anything to anyone until she carts you into her office and fires you."

"She fired you?" Ronaldo asked.

"No, but she fired my best friend last year. For nothing," Cindy replied.

"That would not surprise me. She likes to use her power over others. She does it to me."

"What do you mean? You get to play video games all day and lay on the couch."

"Yes, but she makes me parade around in the nude, massage her bony ass and treats me like a slave," Ronaldo replied.

"Gross."

"Yes, she is very ugly. And when I don't perform the way she wants she ignores me and makes me feel like a fool."

Cindy looked at her watch. She had two hours before she had to be at work and needed to shower and get ready. She usually left from the gym straight to her job.

"Do you need to get going?" Ronaldo asked.

"I have a little bit. Now I'm depressed. My department is near to her office and I see her all the time. She is always commenting on my weight and making back handed digs on me. If she knew I met you she'd probably fire me so don't say anything to her.

# Chapter 2

# Princess

Cindy finally relented and continued with their unofficial coffee date with her sexy demi-god that pervaded her wildest dreams. For the last couple of months she learned of his life; how he came over here last year, that he couldn't get a job because while he could stay here as a citizen it was hard for him to get a job as an immigrant and not possessing any feasible skills. He told her of his life back home in Catania, his parents whom sent him over here to find better opportunities, why he liked working out so much, that he actually wanted to get a job as a male model and how Helga half-way promised that she would do that for him.

He surprised her with a few truths of his own, that while she was looking at him, he would steal a glimpse or two at her round well-figured and voluptuous curvaceous bodice. He let it slipped in a Freudian kind of way that her running, which made her boobs bounced and her butt sway always made him hard and that many times he felt as though he couldn't contain himself.

To him, Cindy was perfect, and so many times he wished that he could get the courage to ask her out, talk to her, but then he remembered Helga and all thought of being with her was crushed. While Cindy was initially pressed for time, she had lost all care for that as she listened to him talk and pay her compliments and flirty nothings that made her swell inside with a passion that, if not for the unfortunate circumstances would have made her mount him like she had done so many times in her dreams.

She looked at the clock and saw that it was five minutes before she needed to get to work.

"Fuck." she breathed heavily as she noticed the time. "I'm so fired! My boss is going to fire my fat stupid ass as soon as I get there. I mean I took the bus here."

"Do not fret my princess. I can take you there. If you want?" Ronaldo offered.

She looked at him a little hesitant. She really didn't want to take advantage of him but she saw no other choice. However, a creeping disparaging thought attacked her last vestige of restraint as she realized that she would be in his car alone, just the two of them for fifteen minutes. Fantasizing, she looked down at his pants to see the bulge between his legs and in another thought ripped his manly meat out of his pants taking his shaft into her mouth and then in-between her legs. The idea tortured her mind. Could she really have survived being in the same car with the guy, for fifteen minutes?

Whatever restraint she had inside of her was finally crushed as she replied, "Sure," with an embarrassed smile and a need that overcame her previous recalcitrance.

They gathered her things and got into Ronaldo's car. As they drove she couldn't help herself from staring at this Adonis sitting next to her driving her to her work. She remembered what he told her about Helga making him walk around naked in her house and tried to imagine how he must look. Muscular arms, perfectly tanned skin, a cock that probably went down to half-way of his thighs and those abs that she was sure were perfectly cut and washboard. All of that couldn't stop her from getting aroused.

"So, Helga makes you walk around naked all the time when you're in her house?" she asked him, but immediately felt a shamed that she could even ask him that.

Ronaldo looked at her and then away beet red and unable to answer her. He lightly nodded his head in affirmation not giving her a response. Then the impossible happened. The last thing that Cindy ever thought would pass her lips.

"Do you think I could––see your cock?" she asked him.

Ronaldo stopped at a red light and looked at her a little off put.

"Is that what my princess wishes?" he asked in a not-so slightly submissive tone.

Cindy automatically turned away in shame and regret cursing herself for even asking him such a stupid and absurd request. However, the dreadful tantalizing horrific desire to see what's in-between his legs caught her in a web of shame and need. Then another impossible happened as he unfastened his belt buckle, undid his zipper, and fished into his pants to reveal his cock. Already hard, thick, standing erect, and wanting, making Cindy's heart leap in even more need. He was bigger than her husband and thicker too.

A nervous gulp wet her parched desert like throat and her pounding heart kept her from hearing herself think for even a second.

"Does it please you princess?" he asked. "Lady Helga usually make me stay hard for hours while I massage her feet and her shoulders. She likes feeling me on top of her and even though she is often displeased with me she does like how I could stay hard for so long."

All that Cindy could hear over the pulsating eroticism of her god's meat stick. She nodded and turned away from him.

"J-just put it away." she said quietly. "Sorry for even asking you to do that." She couldn't look at him or move her eyes up from her lap. How could she ever look him in the eyes or even be near him again knowing that she had taken advantage of him so callously?

He did as she said and they drove for the next couple of minutes in silence as they reached her job. She looked at the building and then at Ronaldo whom was now looking at her with a "so, what's next" look.

"I guess I'll see you tomorrow?" she said to him.

Ronaldo, without even thinking or really realizing what he just did, planted a kiss on her lips. The kiss ripped her breath from her and she looked at him.

"See you tomorrow my princess." The way he called her his princess drove her into insanity. She wished that she could just rip the damn ankle monitor off of him and take him far away from that capricious, violating, monstrous harpy who held him prisoner. She felt a seething rage but kept it to herself as she only nodded a reply and got out of the car to her job, her office, and to her company's waiting president, Helga, meanly, and frustratingly waiting for her in her office.

# Chapter 3

# The prior day

Helga Adler sat in her second story office that looked down upon a huge industrial printing bay. Massive printers churned out thousands of books a day while workers assembled, boxed and shipped them out. From the view of her window, the workers looked like ants scurrying around the machines and conveyors and she felt like the Queen.

Today she did like most days staring at her computer monitor watching her investments grow in real time. She had no reason to be at the factory, she inherited the publishing company from her father and was already rich enough to never work when she took her office twenty years ago. She ran the company for the sheer thrill of the power it gave her.

As she did many times throughout the day she walked over to the huge window and looked down upon her slaves as they moved her product across the floor. Christian books is what they specialized in but they would print anything for cash. She didn't know many of the workers as she preferred to stay away from the uncouth smelly laborers but occasionally she needed a thrill to keep her satisfied, and today was one of those days. She took her phone and called the human resources department and asked for them to send up a woman from the production floor, any woman, it didn't matter who.

Satisfied, she sat back down and put her feet up on a chair as she stared at her computer screen. Her office was custom furnished with white and pink colors and expensive art hung on her walls. In the corner she kept an exercise bike she never used but it made her feel healthy. Then the buzzer on her desk rang and her personal assistant called. "Your appointment is here," the man called.

"Send her in," Helga replied and put her feet down on the floor.

A woman in her forties opened the door and stepped inside Helga's office. She was avenge looking, dark hair, nervous and had no idea why she had been summoned.

"Have a seat," Helga stated motioning for the woman to take the chair opposite her desk. On Helga's phone the name of the woman appeared. It said, 'Angela Bartok.' "How are you today?" Helga asked. She didn't give a shit, the greeting was mechanical.

"I'm a little nervous, I've never been called into the boss's office before. Am I in trouble?"

"Do you think you're in trouble?"

"No," Angela replied.

Helga picked up a sheet of paper from her desk and pretended to read it to make Angela sweat. "How long have you worked for us?" Helga asked.

"Three months."

"What is your position?"

"It doesn't say on that paper?" Angela asked.

"It does, but I want to hear it from you."

Angela took a deep breath and let it out. "I work on the production line. I box books."

"I see," Helga stated and set down the paper. "Do you like working here?"

"It's hard work, but yes, I like it," Angela replied.

"I've been hearing some comments about you lately and I wanted to talk to you in person," Helga lied. "I hear you have been asking some of the men for sex while on duty."

Angela was shocked at the accusation. "That is not true!" she replied.

"I also heard you have been stealing from the company."

"No! I have never stolen anything!"

"Why should I believe you?"

"I am happily married, and I don't need to steal. My husband and I both have good jobs," Angela replied.

"What does your husband do?"

"He works the fork lift here."

"What's his name?"

"John," Angela replied.

"Is he the tall one with the big arms?" Helga asked.

The question struck Angela funny. "Big arms?" Angela asked.

"Yeah, with the biceps that don't quit."

"I don't understand."

"It's a simple question, does he have big arms or not?"

"Yes, he does," Angela replied.

"How does he feel when you ask other men for sex?"

"Miss Helga, I don't ask other men for sex. I am happy with John."

"I bet," Helga said with a smile. She knew who John was and indeed he was a hot man.

"I brought you in here to let you go," Helga said leaning over her desk to make her point more strong and clear. "But I think there is a way I can justify keeping you on."

"But why would you let me go? I didn't do anything wrong," Angela pleaded.

"You are a distraction to the men on the floor and you know it. From what I hear you can't keep your legs together and have been caught behind the building screwing whoever will let you. Don't deny it."

In tears Angela replied, "But I have to deny it, I would never..."

"Never what?"

"Have sex with a man that wasn't my husband," Angela replied.

"That's between you and Jesus," Helga stated. She leaned back in her chair and picked up the paper again. "Do you want to keep your job?" Helga asked like an alpha lioness.

"Yes," Angela replied.

"I want you to tell your husband he needs to make me happy," Helga stated.

"Make you happy how?"

"We are both grown women, I think you know what I mean when I say I want him to make me happy," Helga stated. Unconsciously she was rubbing herself between her legs behind the desk under her skirt.

Angela was stunned and didn't know what to say. Then she said it, "I will not allow my husband to be with you, not for this job, not for anything."

The reply was not what Helga was expecting. She always got her way. "Are you sure? I'm a very powerful woman. I can make your life very difficult."

"There are more jobs than boxing your books ten hours a day for minimum wage," Angela replied.

"Yes there are, but you won't get any of those either. I know everyone of importance in this town and you will never work again if I say."

"You, you bitch," Angela said.

"I've been called worse," Helga replied. "Do you want to keep your job or not?"

Angela wanted to reach across the desk and beat Helga to death with her coffee mug. But she couldn't. She had four children, a mortgage and two car payments to make and couldn't afford not to work. "I can't make John have sex with you, you do realize that."

"You will have to convince him," Helga replied tapping on her computer keyboard. "I just contacted your mortgage company online. I know the manager. Seems you owe a lot on your house."

Angela knew she had over a hundred thousand left to pay and without a job would surely lose it. "I will talk to him."

"I want him in my office tomorrow by ten, washed and ready," Helga stated.

Angela looked around and saw only tables and chairs. "What? Are you going to fuck him on your desktop?"

"No, I have a bed that drops down from the wall, it's over there by the exercise bike."

"You fucking whore," Angela said quietly.

"You can go now," Helga stated and leaned back folding her arms. She knew she won and was going to spend the rest of her day fantasizing about screwing Angela's husband on her drop down bed.

Satisfied she had made someone very miserable and was now expecting free sex the next day Helga smiled from ear to ear. She couldn't afford to make up lies about employees all the time because eventually it would undermine her made up authority and she wouldn't be able to keep doing it for long. So she had to find new ways to relieve her boredom. She was bored with Ronaldo and ready to kick his lazy ass out of her house but couldn't bring herself to do it. He was a boy toy and an occasional romp but no more. Then she had an idea.

"Roger, come in here," Helga called on her phone to her personal assistant. In a moment Roger was at her desk with a pen and paper in hand.

"What may I do for you?" Roger asked pen and paper ready.

"I'm bored, I want you start a fight on the work floor."

"You want me to go down there and fight with someone?" Roger asked. He was confused.

"Not you personally, I want you to make two employees fight so I can watch."

"And how am I supposed to do that?"

"Go down to the break room, ask around to see if there are anyone who doesn't get along and find a reason for them to fight."

"I'm not sure I can do that," Roger replied. "I'm not good with people."

"You're my personal assistant, how can you not be good with people?" Helga asked.

"I spend most of my time on my phone at my desk. I don't do much here," Roger replied.

"How much do I pay you?"

"Sixteen dollars an hour," Roger replied.

"To play on your phone?"

"What else am I supposed to do, you spend most of your time in here staring at your stock reports."

Helga knew Roger was right. She had no life other than making others miserable. "Fine, go back to your desk and play with your phone," Helga said waiving Roger away like a fly.

Roger turned and walked out the office closing the door behind him. Helga grew tired of waiting to die and needed something else to do, but what?

# Chapter 4

# Helga

Cindy fought to calm herself down from her first experience with Ronaldo. He was more than she could ever dreamed of but the idea that he was a boy toy, more like a sex slave, for that evil witch Helga drove her mad with rage. As she walked through the hallways of the upper factory and walked passed the many office rooms of the upper floors. She came to her room. Her job was meager at best, she would get samples of new books, read them, and see which one could possibly get to go to print. Many a hopeful writer sent in their first fifty or so pages, on for their dreams to get crushed by a substandard first paragraph, or a mediocre first chapter. And worse yet was when something truly gripping came her way and she loved every bit of it, only for her boss to throw it in the trash for quote, reasons.

She opened the door of her office to see Helga sitting down at her desk. A memory of what happened to her best friend, Angela, crept into her mind as she remembered how Helga debased her. She made up some nonsensical rumor about her stealing and making passes at other guys. Angela was one of the most devout Christians and wife and mother anyone could ever hope to meet. She was happily and lovingly married to her husband, which she heard he threatened to divorce her, when he found out she was ready to pimp him out to their boss all so she could keep her job. But what John was even more furious with was Helga abusing his wife into trying to talk him into having sex with her.

John had decided to do it, they couldn't really afford Angela losing her job, and he needed to do what he could to help Angela out of this mess they were in. The sex was horrible, Helga was old and wrinkly, and the sides of her face littered with crowfeet and her body were so bony that he could see her ribs. The whole thing made him sick to his stomach and then even when he did what she said, Helga fired both of them, and publically humiliated John saying that he came onto her and forced her to have sex with him. The old witch was devious and monstrous and it made Cindy sick to even stand in her presence.

But what was she doing in her office, she wondered, surely she wasn't that late and even if she was, why would the president of the largest Christian publishing company be in her office? Helga looked at her and threw her a twisted smile of mock pleasantries.

"Cindy." she said in this wispy, low, and decrepit tone of voice that made her skin crawl with disgust. For some strange reason, her mind went back to Ronaldo, their conversation, and––and his meat stick that he unabashedly showed her in the car. Surely Helga was going to question her about her tardiness and if she did, she would have to tell her––about Ronaldo.

If Helga found out that she and Ronaldo talked to each other, and that was why she was late, then it would be bad for both of them.

"You smell like a trash compactor, my dear, what were you doing? Rolling through garbage?" she asked.

"No, ma'am, I was at the gym from five and I lost track of time. Could not even take a shower or do my hair." Cindy told her.

"Must be so tragic, being so hefty?" she said with a snark that made Cindy want to break down. "Well, do make sure to keep better track of time, hmmm?" Helga rose to her feet.

"Yes ma'am." Cindy said lowering her eyes and quieting her voice as to come across as being a bit submissive.

Helga walked towards the door and pass her. She turned to her and leaned in taking a whiff of the girl's musky scent.

"The gym, eh?" she asked.

"Yes ma'am." Cindy turned to her.

"Perchance, you wouldn't happen to have been there earlier this morning, say around five o'clock?" she asked her.

"Um, yes ma'am, that's usually when I go. I work out for an hour or two and then I come here, usually with time to shower." Cindy said raising her eyes to meet the woman's.

"I have a friend who usually go that hour, tall, muscular, an Italian piece of meat that would make any woman wild with lust." Helga said, lightening up a bit and leaned in to whisper in her ear. "And let me tell you, the tail in-between his legs, would make any woman scream for the high heavens." she smirked as she thought about Ronaldo and caught a hint of a blush on the girl's face.

"I-I usually stay by myself and not pay any attention to the other members so I wouldn't notice." Cindy said sheepishly trying not give it away that she knew exactly what she was talking about.

"Come to think of it, I heard him say that he had a thing for the big girls, usually around your size." Helga said. "Methinks you would be a perfect specimen of the type of woman that would drive him wild with lustful inclinations."

Cindy lowered her eyes and turned away from her.

"You wouldn't know anything about that, would you?" Helga said, her tone predatory and vicious, in a way that belied her lithe and frail body.

"No ma'am, I don't. I do have a husband." she told her.

"Yes, indeed, well must just be me." Helga said with a smile and Cindy raised her eyes. "Color me a little bit cautious, or suspicious, I just don't know what I would do if he ever leaves me. I love him after all."

Her words were like venom seeping out of a snake's mouth poisoning what manner of life it touched. Cindy knew that, that was a complete and total lie, and for the head of a Christian publishing company, it was very unbecoming of her. But, Cindy bit her tongue, and carried on with the charade.

"Well, put your mind at ease, ma'am, he's all yours." Cindy said and hung her head again.

"Good." Helga said. "Well, I do believe you have samples to read, do be sure to bring me something moderately printable today. Not another awful existentialist musing on the dichotomy of good an evil. One more of those and I'll rip my hair out."

Helga left the room. Cindy knew that it was a farce, she knew that Helga cared nothing about the books or the writers or even her own workers that were under her. All she cared about was living lavishly and comfortably.

Cindy walked to her seat and sat down. She thought again about her Adonis and felt her rage build inside of her again. It drove her made to think that such a nice, charming, and beautiful young man would be with someone so disgusting and vile. The rest of her day went by with her mind preoccupied with thoughts and fantasies of Ronaldo and how she wished she could help him.

Ronaldo walked into the room of his benefactor, later that night, wearing nothing but boots and a bowtie. Helga sat in her large couch in front of the open window as many other maids and, similarly dressed, or undressed men stood and walked around her waiting on her hand and foot. Ronaldo walked over to her and sat down next to her as he began to massage her feet and get himself ready for their night. Helga laid back on the couch and enjoyed her boy toy servicing her. She had gotten bored of him prior to, but now she made a promise to herself, as long as Ronaldo's financials and living was in her control, he could never leave her. He was hers and she would keep him that way.

Her mind trailed back to this morning with Cindy. With her being that close to Ronaldo unsupervised, and the fact that she had blatantly lied to her face, seeing as she knew that Ronaldo drove to her building. Usually Ronaldo would have no reason to drive there, but today he did. And then she saw Cindy walk out of his car that she bought, and that made her suspicious. Ronaldo was hers, plain and simple, and there was nothing anyone could do to stop her. She would see to it that those two children were kept in line, one way or another.

# Chapter 5

# Jealous

Cindy was anxious. Usually Ronaldo was at the gym before she got there but the weight room was empty except for two skinny guys taking turns on the cable machine. She was dressed in a yellow leotard instead of her usual leggings because she wanted to show Ronaldo more skin than usual. The other women in the gym looked at her like she was a freak dressed like a stripper ready to jump on the pole and take dollar tips.

The more time that passed the more disappointed she became until she caught a glimpse of Ronaldo entering the front door. His massive ripped arms pushed the door open and her mood changed instantly as she perked up and started to glow. As he passed by her treadmill he caught her eye and winked.

"Oh God," one woman said from behind. "Get a fucking room."

Cindy tried to turn around but walking on the treadmill and turning made her lose her balance. So she turned it off and stepped on off the platform onto the ground and turned to the woman behind her. "What's your problem?" Cindy asked. She had her hands on her wide hips and her head cocked to the side like a rooster.

"Why don't you go chase him into the locker room and fuck him, it's obvious that's what you want to do."

"Jealous?" Cindy asked.

"Fuck no, I get guys like that all the time. He's probably the first decent looking guy that paid attention to you. You know he's looking for a free blow job and wants to use you."

Stepping up to the other woman's treadmill Cindy pointed her finger at the woman and stated, "I'll let you know I don't give it away to anyone."

"I bet, who would want it from you?" the woman scoffed. The women around joined in laughter and joked among themselves. "If you don't give it away, why would I be jealous?"

"Because he pays attention to me, that's why," Cindy replied.

"Guys like that pay attention to every woman they see. He's playing the odds and most fat chicks will do whatever guys like him want. You are fuck meat. Look at how you're dressed."

"What's that supposed to mean?" Cindy asked.

"You look like a billboard for a prostitute."

Cindy backed up and shook her head. "I'm done with you," she said and turned around. Her fat ass in full view of the other women laughing at her. Then she saw Ronaldo walking in the weight room from the locker. His long brown hair and tight firm chest in full view of everyone. In defiance of all the bitches who were making fun of her, Cindy decided to walk into the weight room and chat with the Greek God.

Ronaldo saw Cindy walk into the weight room and all the women could see through the Plexiglas walls. She stopped short of the bench press and watched Ronaldo put on his leather lifting gloves. "How are you this morning?" Ronaldo asked. Cindy was a little over five foot tall and Ronaldo had to look down to speak to her.

"I was doing fine until those bitches started on me. They think you're too good for me that you hit on every woman you see."

Laughing, Ronaldo replied, "Those silly women, they have no idea who I am or what I'm about. I only hit on the sexiest women, like you."

Cindy blushed as she looked at Ronaldo's legs. She wanted those legs wrapped around her. "You flatter me," Cindy replied.

"I am so jealous of your husband, that he has his way with you anytime he pleases."

"No, not really, we haven't had sex in years," Cindy replied. "He is skinny and gross."

"I'm sure he has good qualities."

"He does, just not in bed," Cindy replied. "Why were you late today?"

"I don't want to say," Ronaldo replied.

"Why? Did something bad happen?"

"You can say so, Helga made me make love to her this morning."

"Oh, sorry," Cindy replied. "Is that unusual?"

"Yes, we don't usually do it so early. It was as if she was trying to make me late. Like she was trying to punish me. She made me do things we've never done before, and it disgusted me."

"I wonder why she would do that?" Cindy asked.

"I think she knows I gave you a ride to work yesterday. I don't know how but she seemed paranoid."

"But I don't know how she could, I didn't see the light on in her office when you dropped me off," Cindy replied.

"I don't know either, but now my mouth tastes like ass and I don't like it."

"Gross," Cindy said. The thought of Ronaldo eating a seventy nine year old woman's ass was disgusting. "That does sound like punishment."

"Only with her, I would do the same to you in a second."

"I guess it does depend on context," Cindy stated.

"I dream of burying my face in your ass all the day long, it fulfills me."

"Your meat stick fulfills me. We should find a room here where we can be alone," Cindy replied.

"Maybe there is a laundry room, or the basement?"

"I can ask around," Cindy replied. "But for now you can give me another ride to work and we can do what we can in the car. I know it's tight in there, but I have ways."

Cindy walked back to the treadmill and left Ronaldo to his weights. For the next thirty minutes they both worked out, individually and worked up a sweat. Nothing would have satisfied Cindy more than to shower with Ronaldo after the workout but that was not an option. It was not a coed gym. But today Cindy did want to take a shower so Helga would leave her alone so after forty five minutes on the treadmill she headed to the women's locker room. In there she met the same woman that had been heckling her from behind. Only now this woman was locked in a lesbian kiss with another woman in the shower.

"You wanted me to get a room?" Cindy yelled over the shower spray. "This is a gym, not a hotel."

The woman stepped out of the shower leaving her girlfriend behind. "What's your problem now you fat cow?" the woman yelled. "You don't like girls?"

"Not my thing," Cindy replied as she undressed from her leotard.

"You don't know what you're missing," the woman said as she stepped back into the spray.

"Yeah, I do. I tried it and it was gross," Cindy replied. "Very unsatisfying if you know what I mean."

"Cocks are underrated," the woman said as she groped her girlfriend. "Maybe you didn't do it right, maybe you should join us."

Disgusted, Cindy replied, "I don't have time."

"You should make the time. You will convert, I promise."

Finding a different shower head, Cindy turned on the hot water and let the water spray all over her. She took some soap from a nearby dispenser and ran it through her hair letting the water splash on her chubby face. Then she felt hands sliding across her breasts from the woman standing behind her. For a moment if felt good and she allowed this woman to use the slick soapy water to run her hands across her breasts.

"You like?" the woman asked.

Cindy turned to face the woman and kissed her passionately on the lips. She was as surprised as the woman who she kissed but pressed hard entering her mouth with her tongue. When the kiss was done Cindy stepped away and pushed the woman back. "I told you it would be gross, get away from me."

"What? That was awesome, why stop now?"

"Cause you don't have a cock," Cindy replied. "What am I going to do now? You got me horny and now I have to go to work."

"I have a dildo in my bag," the woman replied.

"Rubber? No thanks," Cindy replied and finished her shower. "I like my meat stick hot, stiff and real."

# Chapter 6

# Play with it

Ronaldo waited at his car for Cindy to come out of the building. His cock was aching in his pants anticipating for what would come with Cindy. Many times when he daydreamed he saw Cindy, lying on a bed, naked, her arms up and to the side of her head, her breasts hanging to the side, and him between her legs eating her out. So many times he tried to imagine the smell of her sex and how sweet it must taste on his tongue. Then he imagined her taking him into her mouth and succulently slurping at his meat forcing him to hold himself back as to not erupt just yet. As he imagined that, his mind went back to Helga, and how she forced him to lick her arsehole this morning. How wrinkly and disgusting it tasted and how he felt as though she did it out of spite for whatever reason she might have had.

Cindy walked over to him, her bag on her shoulder, and looking at him sweetly and warmly. Suddenly all thoughts of what Helga imposed on him went away. He was happy and he wanted to be happy with the woman he loved more than anything.

"Well, are you ready to go?" he asked her.

"What, no princess?" she asked him.

"I thought that, that displeased you and you did not want me to call you that." he told her.

Cindy for a moment didn't care about anything else and wanted him to call her his princess again. She leaned in to him and gave him a kiss on his lips. The kiss that he gave to her was paid back and he could not believe how sweet and soft her lips felt. It was strange yesterday, he didn't notice that, but today, he could feel it in a way that made his every fiber leap in joy.

"Well ready to go princess?" he asked her.

"Only if you drive with your cock out, so I can play with it while we drive." she whispered to him. She led him to the passenger side of the car so he could open it for her. He got into the car and did what she said. His cock stood upright in the air allowing Cindy to grab hold of his meat multiple times throughout the car ride. She noticed a side street that was mostly deserted.

"Turn down there." she told him.

"Why?" he asked.

"If Helga suspects something, you can't drop me off at my job, it would be better if we did what we wanted there and not have you drive me to work." she told him. "As long as you have that ankle bracelet on you it would cause problems.

"Ok." he told her and turned down the side street.

Cindy looked down at his erect cock and mischievously smiled at him.

"Take off your shirt." she told him. "I want to see those muscles in all their rippling glory." she cooed and ran a hand down his chest. He did as she commanded and took off his muscle shirt to reveal his rippling muscles and what she imagined so many times in her dreams.

"Next your pants, all the way." she told him.

"Y-you want me to get n-naked? Here?" he asked her a little bit scared.

"What will you do for me?" she asked him. "I want to feel my Greek Adonis in all his glory and give him the fucking of a lifetime. So, I don't want something stupid like clothes getting in my way. Do it."

Her brazen request and demeanor insanely turned on Ronaldo. She was so forceful with him that it sent him into a mad primal lust. He didn't care if they were in a public street. He wanted his goddess, right then and right there. He would do what she said and he would give her everything she demanded of him. Cindy looked at the clock and saw that if they took fifteen minutes to have sex then she would be able to get to work with time to spare. But, Ronaldo needed to hurry up and get naked for them to start.

Ronaldo lifted himself up out of the seat and undid his pants and pulled them down along with his underwear and he was sitting in the car naked. A familiar feeling of being with Helga filled him but it was different than with her. With Cindy he genuinely felt as if he wanted to do this. He wanted to please her and he wanted to give her everything she wanted. He moved his seat back as far as it could go and laid the back of the seat back. His cock laid in his lap and he waited for Cindy to get on top of her.

She bent over him and took him into her mouth sucking him down to the base of his cock. With a rhythmic motion she brought him to the very edge of orgasm but did not let him go over. Ronaldo's hand moved to the back of her pants and he moved his hand into her panties to reach around to feel her sex. It was already wet and ready for him to fuck her.

Cindy lifted her head up and with a plopping sound brought his free hand to her right breast allowing him cop a feel. Her husband never made her feel this way. She would have to talk to him when all of this was over. He wasn't a bad guy, a little bit of a workaholic who didn't really have any time for her, and he was skinny so she was always afraid of breaking him in to.

Also, he was a total nerd who enjoyed Game of Thrones and Dungeons and Dragons than physical activities. She could never talk him into going to the gym with her and working out or going out for a run. Sometimes it made her feel unwanted when he rather play games with his friends or watch the game than be with her. She felt this for a while, her marriage had reached a point where it was just stagnant and it did nothing for her. She needed more, she needed Ronaldo, and one way or another she would have him.

Ronaldo took off her shirt and then her work pants followed that. Now all she had on was her panties and her bra, which she quickly did away with. Ronaldo lowered his chair a bit more so no one would see them as Cindy mounted him and took him inside her. He was big, huge, and he filled her out in a way that her husband never could.

She rode him until she felt him erupt but breathed a caution letting him know that he wasn't allowed to cum while he was inside of her. He held himself back and she rode him until she felt her orgasm approach. With his hands on her breasts and his cock inside of her, she orgasm on his cock, which made her body shake and spasm in pure ecstasy.

Cindy got off of him and sucked him off until he came down her throat. As she got up, she fixed herself and wiped the droplets of semen from her mouth.

"Well, that was fun." she told him and got dressed.

Ronaldo preceded to get dressed but was stopped by Cindy. He looked at her wondering what she wanted.

"Here's a weird request, but do you think I can hold on to your underwear, I kind of want to smell you while I finger myself off tonight." she told him. "And the idea of you driving home without them because of me is ridiculously hot."

Ronaldo lightly smiled at the little minx. How could he have said no? She had just given him the sex of a lifetime and he would give her anything she wanted. He handed her his underwear and got dressed in just his jeans and his shirt. Cindy placed it in her bag and got out of the car.

"I can walk from here. I'll be sure to give them back to you tomorrow and, oh yeah, I'll be sure to find someplace quiet and out of the way for us to have more fun tomorrow." she told him. "And one way or another, I'll see to it that you are free from Helga."

She closed the door and walked away to her job. Ronaldo took off to home. When he got to Helga's house, he saw that Helga was still home, and with a naked butler whom was pleasing her on his knees.

"Ronaldo." she said. "Hurry up and get undressed and come over here. I need you to suck on my nipples while I'm getting eaten out."

"I haven't showered yet, I still smell." he lied to her.

"Oh, I don't care about that, I love the musky smell of a well worked out man, it smells like productivity, and that's always a good thing." she told him.

"Um, Miss. Helga." he said.

"Please, Ronaldo, after all this time you can call me Helga. There's no need for such pleasantries anymore. Come on hurry up and get undressed. I'll even let you place your dick in-between my breasts. It'll be the least I can do for holding you back this morning." she said.

"Miss Helga, what are you doing here, when you should be at work?" Ronaldo asked nervous.

"Oh, I have a board that handles the day to day minutiae of my business, I don't need to be there." she told him. "And, I also took the liberty of making a few calls whilst you were away."

"Calls?" he asked confused.

"About your goal to become a model. I know a few people and so I made a call with a very influential agent in this city. Truth be told, if we are going to continue this, then I will need you to find something to do with your time. And well, what better thing to do than to become a model, that way you will be plenty occupied with your work that you will forget about going to the gym so early in the morning." she told him. A dreadful chill ran down his back as he heard his benefactor speak.

"Um, Miss, that is all right, I don't think I want to become a model anymore." he told her.

"Oh, don't be daft, it's what you came over here to do, it's what all those hours in the gym was for, was it not?" she asked him. "Or was I wasting my time with a good for nothing loafer who wastes his time and more importantly mine, with play video games and going to the gym?"

"No, miss." he said submissively looking away.

Helga fell silent for a moment but then spoke up after a while.

"You're still dressed." she said.

"May I go and change in the backroom?" he asked her.

"Oh please, I've seen you naked plenty of times, get undressed before I rip those clothes off of you." she barked authoritatively and with finality.

Ronaldo took off his shirt and then followed through with his shoes and finally his pants. Helga noticed that he wasn't wearing underwear.

"Going commando, are we?" she asked him.

"Um, yes, the underwear it can be a bit tight so it makes it hard for me to move around in the gym." he told her.

"I see." she said. "Well, get over here, on your hands and knees."

Ronaldo moved to his hands and knees and crawled as his cock moved from left to right. He felt a little scared as to whether she would smell something off on him. When he got to the couch he moved to sit beside her. Helga removed her shirt and followed by her bra.

Ronaldo's lips moved to her nipples. He took one in his mouth and played with the other. The naked butler was still pleasing her as Ronaldo pleasured his mistress.

As he did what he was told, Helga moved to grab hold of his balls, and played with them.

"Now, Ronaldo, on the topic of your job, I expect you to go to that meeting this Thursday and give it your best. If you don't then I will have to make sure that you are not allowed to the gym whenever you want. Understand me?" she said.

"Yes Miss. Helga." he replied.

"Good, also, do you see anyone there while you're working out?" she asked him. "Maybe a girl, round, a little plump, relatively big breasts and a big behind."

His cock twitched with what she said.

"No mistress." he said.

"I see." she said. "Ronaldo, what were you doing at a side street today?"

"I was having problems with the car. It started to start and stop on me." he told her, he lied.

"Well then, we should be sure to get that looked at, all the more reason for you to get a good paying job, don't you think?" she said.

"Yes Miss. Helga." he said.

"You know, it would just kill me if I found out that you were fooling around with someone else behind my back." she told him.

"No Miss, of course not, I would never." he told her.

"I know dear, I know, just knowing that you are there, alone at that gym prey for any little vixen who looks your way. It disturbs me some." she said.

"No Miss, you are all I long for." he told her.

"Well, if there was someone, I would want you to be truthful with me." she told him. "I wouldn't get angry." she lied and she knew that she lied. "I just want you to tell me the truth."

"Yes ma'am." he said and continued to lick her nipple.

"Sit up." she told him. "On your knees."

He did as he commanded. Helga kneeled down to his cock and began to take him in her mouth but stopped when he smelt the smell of another woman's sex on it. He was with someone, and she knew the truth, every ounce of her told her that it was that fat bitch at her company. She would be sure to make sure she pays for this. And as for Ronaldo, he needed to learn that he was hers, one way or another.

# Chapter 7

# Three days later

Cindy stepped into her office and noticed a light blinking on her desk phone. She had a message so she punched in her code and listened to the human resources director ask her to come to the conference room as soon as she arrived at work. A hot flash ran up her spine as a panic attack ensued and she sat down for a moment. Why would human resources want to talk to her?

Gathering her courage she got back up and headed out the door, down the hall to the H.R. department. There she found Susan, the director behind her desk typing on her computer. She didn't notice Cindy at first but raised her head as the large girl approached.

"You wanted to see me?" Cindy asked.

"Yes, we need to head down to the conference room," Susan replied as she stood.

"What's this about?" Cindy asked.

"I can't say, you'll find out when we get there," Susan replied. She led Cindy down the hall to the conference room and opened the door. She let Cindy in first and was greeted by six men sitting around a huge walnut table with Helga at the head.

"What's going on?" Cindy asked.

"Have a seat," Helga said flat and droll.

Cindy sat at the opposite side of the table and swallowed hard. All the men in the room were from the board and she knew most of them. To the side, mounted on the wall was a huge flat screen television with the company logo sliding back and forth on the display. "Am I being fired?" Cindy asked.

"That depends on how this meeting goes," Helga replied.

"What do you mean?"

"I have a question for you, think hard before you reply," Helga said. She was trying to make Cindy as nervous as possible. "Why have you been late for work this last week?"

"Late? I was only a few minutes," Cindy replied. "I had car trouble."

"Car trouble?" Helga asked.

"Yes, I had to get a ride."

"From whom?"

Scrambling for an answer Cindy blurted out the first thing she could think of. "Some guy from the gym."

"Some guy?" Helga asked.

"Are you going to fire me for being late a few times? I know staff who are late every day."

"So your answer is car trouble." Helga repeated. "And who is this guy from the gym?"

"Some guy, I don't know him that well," Cindy replied lying her ass off.

"Does this guy have a name?"

Silence.

"Did you hear me?" Helga asked.

"I think his name is Ronaldo, or something like that. I'm not sure. He's not American."

"Ronaldo, that's not a common name is it?" Helga asked.

"I don't know," Cindy replied.

"How long have you worked for me?"

Cindy thought for a moment. "Three years," she replied.

"I have your personnel file here in front of me. From what I have read you have been an adequate employee. Would you agree?" Helga asked.

"Adequate? I think I'm better than that. What's going on here?"

"In the last three years you must have got to know about me haven't you? You do realize I have servants on my personal staff."

"That's what I hear," Cindy replied. "I've never been invited to your house."

"And for a good reason," Helga replied with a grin. "So you don't know about my personal man servant."

"I don't believe so," Cindy replied.

"He is quite handsome, tall and good looking with long brown hair. Like a model."

"No, never heard of him."

"He works at my home, does my bidding when I can't be there," Helga replied. "He goes to the gym every morning to keep up his body. One day he will be a super model, if I have my way."

"What does this have to do with me?" Cindy asked.

"I know that you go to the gym as well in the mornings. Have you met my servant?"

"I may have run across him once or twice, there are a lot of guys that use the weight room," Cindy replied.

"You would know him, he has an Italian accent."

"Sorry, I can't help you," Cindy replied.

Helga looked around the room at the men who were either engrossed in the conversation or bored to death. "I think you are fucking my man servant," Helga stated.

"No, I am not," Cindy replied. "And if I were why would that get me fired?"

"I can fire you for any reason, you do know that."

"Yes, I do."

"I don't like to share Ronaldo with anyone, especially with a fat hussy like you."

Pissed, Cindy replied, "Fat hussy! Who are you calling fat you old bitch! You have no proof I did anything wrong!"

With a smile as wide as her face Helga picked up a remote, pointed it at the big screen and pressed a button. What Cindy saw made her jaw drop as she saw a video of her mounted in Helga's car, pounding Ronaldo in the passenger seat. The outside was dark but there was enough light from a street light to make out Cindy's huge breasts bouncing up and down as she fucked Ronaldo who was smiling with his eyes closed and his hands planted firmly on her breasts.

"Do you recognize him now?" Helga asked.

Eyes glued to the screen and jaw agape Cindy sunk down in her seat as all the men in the room watched her fuck Ronaldo. Now she knew why there were there, to make the humiliation six times worse. "I've seen enough," Cindy stated fighting off tears.

"No, this goes on for twenty six minutes and you will sit there and watch for the entire time. I had cameras installed three days ago and that was a very good investment. If you leave I will take that as your resignation."

"You can't do this to me, I have rights," Cindy pleaded.

"That is my car, that is my servant and you fucked him on my time. You were twenty minutes late that day and I'm getting all those minutes back."

Cindy laid her head on her arms avoiding the screen.

"You look at that!" Helga yelled from across the table. "I want you to see the blow job coming up. I have five cameras mounted in there and you can see every sick detail."

"I'm not going to let you embarrass me," Cindy stated.

"You have two choices then, you can get the fuck out or put on a show for the board," Helga yelled.

"Show? What show?" Cindy asked.

"Take off your clothes and dance on the table," Helga replied with a smile. "That's if you can get up there you fat pig."

Looking at the men's faces around the table Cindy shook her head. "I'm not putting on a show for anyone. I don't need this job that much."

"Then get out, you're fired," Helga stated and pointed to the door.

"No, there must be another way, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to hurt you."

"Are you saying Ronaldo didn't tell you about me?" Helga asked.

"No, he did."

"What did he say about me?" Helga asked.

Cindy hesitated. "He said you made him eat out your asshole. He said you're disgusting."

"He did you say," Helga replied. She was shocked to hear this.

"He says you make him have sex with you and that he thinks he will break you in two. He says your body is gross and he wants to see a phycologist. He thinks he has post-traumatic stress syndrome."

"You're lying," Helga barked back.

"Have you looked in the mirror? You're old and wrinkled. Like one of those pug dogs," Cindy replied. "The only way you can get a man to have sex with you is if you pay him. Ronaldo is basically your personal prostitute."

Helga stood up and stopped the video. On the screen was Cindy with Ronaldo's mouth on her tit. "I don't pay for sex, I never have and I never will you stupid fat cunt. What he sees in you is beyond me."

"He likes girls with curves. You're curves were gone years ago."

Now frustrated and pissed Helga began to pace back and forth. She wanted Cindy gone but was now thinking of a way to get back at Ronaldo for lying to her. But how? Cindy would report anything back and would never go along with any plan she came up with. She was willing to lose her job over her man servant and that put her in a corner. Helga didn't lose any battle but now for the first time in a long time she had no recourse.

"If you do anything to me I'll hire a lawyer and sue the shit out of you, you can't blackmail me like this," Cindy replied.

"I have more lawyers on retention than you know of, good lawyers," Helga replied. "Go ahead and try to sue me. I'll make sure this video is put out online for everyone to see. You will never work again."

"You know if you do I'll win!" Cindy snapped.

"You'll have to prove it. Someone call security and make sure she isn't recording this."

One of the board members pulled out his phone and called the security guard. As he set the phone down he said to Cindy, "You'd be best quitting while your ahead, or getting up on this table and doing a little dance so you can keep your job."

For a moment Cindy considered stripping and dancing for all the old men at the table, then she saw Helga glaring at her with a smile and flipped her off. "You fucking bitch," Cindy said.

"Come on Cindy, we've already seen you naked, what's the difference if you do a little naked dance for us?" Helga asked.

"I like Ronaldo, you are a bunch of perverted old men."

"I'm not a man," Helga replied.

"No, you just want to humiliate me and watch and I won't give you the satisfaction!" Cindy yelled.

"Admit it, you're too fat to get up on the table. Get out before I have you thrown out," Helga stated.

Security entered the room and waited for instructions. "Check her phone, make sure she isn't recording us," Helga said.

"You touch me and you'll regret it," Cindy stated clutching her phone in her pocket.

# Chapter 8

# Gym Lovers

Cindy sat at her kitchen table as her husband briskly walked back and forth carrying his things out into the front room. Her head was hung and she said nothing as he quietly got his things together.

"You don't have to go." she told her husband. "I can go and stay with a friend or something." He continued to move his things without responding to her.

"Can we just talk about this, please?" she pleaded with him.

"What's there to talk about?" he stopped suddenly turned to her. She looked at him. "I––I have to get a call at my work? Hearing that my wife was fucking some other guy at her gym. Your boss, your boss, had to call me at my work and she called me to her office and showed me everything when I picked you up. God damn it do you have any idea how humiliating that was for me?"

"For you? I nearly had to strip naked and dance on the table for a bunch of old perverts and you're saying how humiliating it was for you?" she moved to her feet and hurried over to him. Cindy placed her hands on the sides of his face and brought his gaze to her.

"Yeah, well, not like it matters now, huh." he said. "It's done."

"I never wanted to hurt you." she told him.

"Then you should've thought about that before giving it up to some guy at your gym like a cheap whore." he said and broke away from her.

Cindy lowered her head and for the first time in months, she felt destroyed, ashamed and humiliated that she hurt her husband like that. For so long she had lost all interest in her husband but now, she wanted to be with him, to have him so she could feel safe. She needed to feel safe. She needed someone to keep her calm and tell her that everything was going to be ok. But, she knew that it was selfish of her to ask that of Rob after what she did to him. She deserved every ounce of his anger and more.

"I'm sorry." She broke down before him and fell to her knees. "I'm sorry. I never wanted to hurt you."

"Then what did you want?" he asked. "Was it the sex?"

She didn't respond and simply sat there with her eyes transfixed to the floor.

"Are you in love with him?" he asked. "Am I not enough? Or did you just not give enough of a shit to let me know that you don't love me anymore." He could barely contain himself as he felt his body shake in reaction to his rage.

"Ronaldo, he makes me happy, he pays attention to me and he calls me princess." she told him and looked at him. "That makes me happy. It makes me happy that he doesn't care how I look or how much I weigh. Actually, he loves me because of that. Because I have curves and a body and I'm not a twig and that makes me happy." Cindy rose to her feet wiping her tears away. "Rob when was the last time you paid me a compliment? When was the last time you told me how beautiful I am? When was the last time you ever surprised me by kissing me out of nowhere? What about dropping me off to the gym and taking me to work? Huh, why is it that I have to take the damn bus every morning, but you can't even give me a lift? Why is it so easy for you to care about anything else but me? What's wrong with me?"

"Why am I now hearing this mea culpa? Why didn't you tell me you felt this way months ago? Huh, why is it that my wife feels like she can't tell me what's troubling her?" he asked her. "What about to have and to hold, in sickness and in health, to trust and confide in each other for everything?" He moved in close to her. "Or did you forget your vows when you got some male model dick."

Cindy's tearful expression turned to one of rage and disgust as she slapped him across the face. Rob turned to her and grabbed her by her arms and pushed her back into the table. Cindy fought to break free but she had never realized just how strong her husband was.

"You wanna be a whore? Ya wanna give it up to whatever dick comes your way?" he asked her. "Then why didn't you act like one and save your job?"

Cindy spat in his face. This forced Rob to slap her across her face and unto the ground. He grabbed her by her arm, turned her around, and bent her over the table. With one swift motion he pulled down her pants and her panties revealing her sex.

"What are you going to do?" she asked. "Are you going to rape me? Are you really that small of a man that you can't handle your wife that you have to do this?" Her words stopped him from doing what he was about to do and pulled her up. He came in close to her ear and wrapped his arm around her waist.

"You did this, don't forget that dear." Rob left the house leaving Cindy to fall to her knees, alone, crying, and broken.

What she wanted more than anything in this moment was Ronaldo, she wanted her Adonis, keeping her safe and holding her closely. She cried as she felt her life destroy itself and crumble down around her.

Ronaldo was stripped of his ankle brace, his belongings, and everything else but the clothes on his back as Helga's butlers threw him out of her house. He felt destroyed as he looked up at her and she looked down coldly and unforgivingly at him. Without uttering a word, Helga closed the door, leaving her former boy toy alone, bleeding from the beating he had taken, and with nothing to his life. Ronaldo rose to his feet and walked through the streets broken, alone, and longing for one thing, his princess.

He walked through the city streets unsure of where to go or what to do. Cindy went out as the night was bizarrely cold and dark. She didn't know where she was going but she knew she had to go somewhere. Perhaps, perhaps the gym, she always felt safe there and although it was unlikely that she would see Ronaldo. She still held out hope for the slim chance that maybe he would be there.

The gym was mostly empty, save for one or two people working out on treadmills, at weight stations, and so on. No one paid her any mind letting her know that her tryst had not gotten out to the public, yet. Whatever Helga was planning, she knew that she didn't destroy her like that, she entered the pool area and sat down at the side of the pool. Her reflection was shown in the pool water and the sight of her disheveled appearance broke her down bringing tears to her eyes. She closed her eyes and let out a pained scream of despair as she felt her heart break into pieces.

"Princess?" he said.

Cindy looked up shocked and turned to see her Adonis crouching beside him. His eyes were to the pool and his head was turned slightly to the side as to not look at her.

"Ronaldo." she said breathlessly.

"I'm sorry." he told her sullenly.

Cindy's hopeful expression was turned to dread as she saw the battered and bruised shape of his face. He had bruises, cuts, and was bleeding from his forehead.

"Did she do this to you?" Cindy asked.

"I do not want you to worry. I'm fine." he told her and stood up.

Cindy rose to her feet. "This is horrible. How could she do this to you?"

"She doesn't want me anymore." he told her.

"Come on, I know a place." she told him.

Cindy walked passed him, turned to him, and held her hand for him to take. Ronaldo took her hand and followed her to the place. It was a broom closet, small, cramped, but away from people and private.

She lightly brushed her hand over his face but he stopped her with a hand on hers.

"Don't." he told her.

She gave him a kiss on his lips. Ronaldo grabbed her and held her tightly close to him. For the second time tonight, but for the first, Cindy broke down crying into the arms of the man who made her feel special. She fell to her knees and Ronaldo fell with her. At this point, Cindy was sobbing, crying, balling her eyes out at the unfairness of the whole situation.

"What are we going to do?" she asked him.

"Stand up, turn around, don't look until I say so." Ronaldo told her.

She did as he told her and faced the other direction. Ronaldo removed his shirt and then his pants followed by his underwear and his shoes.

"Turn around." he told her.

Cindy did as he told her and turned to see him naked standing there.

"I want you to know, I'm here, with you, fully, not hiding anything and not keeping anything from you." He moved in closer to her and grabbed her arms. "I'm yours. Always and forever."

With that, Cindy kissed him on his lips, her body molded into his own and she felt the warmth emanating from him.

"Turn around." she said. "Don't look until I tell you so."

Ronaldo did as he was told and turned around. First her shirt came off and then her pants and followed by her bra and panties.

"Turn around." she told him and he did as she commanded to see her in all her naked glory.

"The worse thing, is that I felt like I was taking advantage of you, you give me everything and I gave you nothing." she told him. "So, here I am, giving you everything."

Cindy walked in towards him. Their bodies molded into one and they became whole. There was nothing else but them. One mind, one body, one soul, existing in that space together and nothing could break them apart, as Cindy felt for the first time whole, just her and her man, a woman and her man, as it should be.

When it was over, Ronaldo held her close. "I love you." he told her.

Cindy looked at him stunned. Her heart raced as the words passed his lips. "I'm in love with you and I'll always be in love with you, Cindy, you're beautiful, and you don't need this gym or anything to make yourself beautiful. I, I try my best to make myself look presentable for a woman that didn't even love me, but you don't ever have to feel like that."

"I love you too." she told him.

"What are we going to do about Helga?" he asked her.

"She's going to pay." she told him. "I'm taking her skinny old ugly ass to task and I'm going to make her pay for what she did to us. Ronaldo, I might need you to testify, all of the things she did to you and show evidence. Because this, this is wrong."

"Or we can just run away?" he told her. "Cindy, run away with me. Let's leave this place and never come back."

"I can't. I can't run away from this." she told him. "I want you to be here with me, but I won't force you to stay in a place that you don't want to. Ronaldo if you want to leave, leave, and know if I make it out of this, I will find you and I will be with you."

Cindy kissed her man and he kissed her back. They felt secure with each other, as each thought about what their next move would be.

# Chapter 9

# Abandoned

Cindy plopped her tray on the foot court table in front of Ronaldo and fought back tears. She closed her eyes and tilted her head back before burying her face in her arms on the table. Ronaldo looked at her in bewilderment. "What's wrong?" Ronaldo asked.

"Rob canceled my debit card," Cindy replied. "I got our food and when I went to pay for it the card was denied. I had to use cash to pay for it and now I only have a hundred and ten dollars to my name."

"That asshole" Ronaldo stated.

"And he texted me that he was changing the locks on the house."

Ronaldo didn't know what to say.

"What are going to do? Sit there and watch me cry?" Cindy asked.

"You must not worry princess, things will work out."

Cindy pushed Ronaldo's bag over to him and set his diet drink within arm's reach. "That might be your last meal," Cindy said shaking her head. "Unless you get a real job."

The words pounded in Ronaldo's head like a drum. "Princess, I have something I need to tell you."

Cindy perked up as her mascara dripped down her face. "What?" she asked chewing on an onion ring.

"I've had a job all along."

Silence. "What do you mean you had a job? Going to the gym isn't a job, watching YouTube isn't a job and playing video games isn't a job."

"Actually, it is, in a way."

"Don't play games with me Ronaldo," Cindy said sipping on her drink. "What are you hiding from me?"

Hanging his head faking shame Ronaldo replied, "I am an industrial spy, I was working for your competitor. The video game console was a communication device I used that Helga wouldn't understand. The more she told me about the company, the more I sent to my employer through the game controller."

"What?" Cindy asked. "A spy?"

"My employer thought with my looks I could gain access and I did. I sent a lot of information that hurt the Double Down Christian Publishing Company. Were you aware of the loss of sales your company was enduring?"

"No, I read manuscripts, I didn't work in the business office," Cindy replied.

"Really? I thought you were in management?" Ronaldo asked.

"Why would you think that?"

"Helga said something about you being in everyone's business."

"I think she was making fun of me," Cindy replied.

Shocked, Ronaldo pushed his food away and leaned back. He looked very disappointed.

"What's wrong?" Cindy asked looking at the expression on Ronaldo's face.

"I think I may have been wasting a lot of time for nothing," Ronaldo replied.

"Wasting time on what?"

"Not what––who."

"I'm confused," Cindy replied. "Who are you talking about?"

A long moment passed before Ronaldo replied. "I am talking about you."

"Are you actually trying to hurt my feelings?" Cindy replied. Her tears were now raining down her chubby cheeks.

"I spent many mornings in the gym grooming you. Grooming you for future information that I now realize would never come. You were some sort of copy girl, not management."

"Are you saying you only paid attention to me because you wanted information from me?" Cindy snapped.

"You are quite a chubby girl, do you think a man of my looks would stoop down to someone who looks like you?"

Cindy dropped her soda spilling it on the table. She didn't know what to say.

"I know this is hard to hear, but I can't lie any longer. I no longer have a use for you."

"You fucking piece of shit," Cindy stated cold and slow. Her voice no louder than anyone around her. "I could kill you," she added and threw her burger at Ronaldo's face.

Shaking it off Ronaldo replied, "But there is a way you could be a use to me and I to you. If you are willing."

"Why would I want to do anything for you?" Cindy asked. She was ready to reach across the table and rip Ronaldo apart.

"You are basically homeless and have no access to any money. I can help with that."

"What do you want me to do? Suck your dick for money?" Cindy asked.

"I can get any woman to do that," Ronaldo replied. "I can still use you to get information from the company."

"Do you recall that I quit that place?" Cindy asked.

"I do, but I think with proper persuasion Helga would take you back," Ronaldo stated.

"Why would I want to work for that cunt?"

"Would you rather live on the streets and beg for money?" Ronaldo asked.

It was obvious that people were listening in on the conversation and Cindy didn't like the glares she was getting. "Can we discuss this somewhere else?"

"No, we will discuss this here and now," Ronaldo demanded.

"Fine, tell me what you want me to do?"

Satisfied he got his point across Ronaldo smiled and let forth his plan. "You beg for your job back, steal classified corporate information and give it to me to report back to my employers. For that I will pay you a percentage of my fee."

"What do they pay you?" Cindy asked.

"Depends on the quality of the information. Can be as high as a thousand dollars a message or as little as a few hundred."

With a little over a hundred in her wallet any money sounded better than none. She still didn't know what to do with Ronaldo's lying ass and didn't know if she could trust him now either. "How do I know you aren't lying to me now? I'm just a stupid fat girl that fucked you because you're hot."

"You are not stupid, I manipulated you. There is a difference," Ronaldo replied.

Later that afternoon Cindy took an Uber to her old job and took the elevator to Helga's floor. She was dressed in blue/grey a skirt suit combo with low teal heels and her hair and make up the way she liked it. She intentionally passed the human resources department and stopped at Helga's personal assistant's desk.

"May I help you?" Roger asked.

"I need to see Helga," Cindy replied.

"I know you don't have an appointment, would you like me to make you one?" Roger asked.

"Can I make it for now?"

The assistant looked at his computer screen and tapped on his keyboard. "Her calendar is open until five," he stated looking up at the chubby girl across his desk. "May I ask who's calling?"

"We've met," Cindy replied, "My office was below the graphics department."

"I thought you looked familiar, but can I get a name?"

"Cindy Penney," Cindy replied.

"Oh yes, I think we met once at the company Christmas party."

"Probably, can I see Helga?"

"Yes, let me ring you in," Roger said and pushed a button on his desk. "You have a Miss Cindy Penney here to see you."

A long pause.

Cindy looked up at the camera that Helga was watching her through mounted above the door. "Let her in," Helga stated and the door clicked as it unlocked.

"You may go in," Roger stated holding out his hand as if he was opening the door.

Cindy opened the door and was met with the image of Helga at her desk leaning back with one hand on her phone and the other down between her legs. Cindy imagined Helga had been masturbating to porn and didn't bother to stop when she opened the door, but who knew for sure.

"Look who's back," Helga stated. She pulled her finger from under the table and sucked on the tips. "What do you want? I only had one servant to fuck."

"I would like my job back," Cindy replied. She was quick and to the point.

"And why should I give you your job back?" Helga replied.

"Because I'm adequate at it," Cindy replied.

"Yes, yes you are."

For a long time the room was silent except for the sounds outside Helga's large bay window. "

"I could see maybe taking you on packing books in the production department."

"Packing books?" Cindy asked. She was surprised that Helga would suggest such a demotion. "I read manuscripts, not pack books."

"If you want to work for me you will need to start at the bottom, do you understand?" Helga asked.

Without realizing it Cindy shook her head from side to side. "It's over a hundred degrees down in the production bay," Cindy said. "I wouldn't last a day."

"It would be temporary," Helga replied. "Until I felt you have repented for your sins."

"How long?" Cindy asked.

"Thirty days, five to five Monday through Friday and five to noon on Saturday," Helga replied. "The exercise would be good for you, maybe you could lose some weight."

Cindy wanted to lash out at Helga and Helga knew it. But she kept silent.

"But you won't have to dance naked before the board like I asked before," Helga stated. "But you will have to work in the nude while you're on the packing floor."

"You're insane!" Cindy snapped back.

"If you want the job you have to honor the dress code."

"No one else works naked," Cindy replied.

"Not until now," Helga replied with a shit eating grin.

# Chapter 10

# Nightmare

Cindy walked through the bottom floor completely naked as the leering eyes of the other workers stared at her. Many of the men looked at her lusty and with passion clouding their eyes. She tried to ignore their looks as she did her job but couldn't help but feel conscious of the predicament she was in. The lights began to dim and she found herself falling deeply into some unknown void that she couldn't understand.

Back in her bed, she woke up in a start, and looked over at Ronaldo as he slept in pretty much nothing. It had been three weeks since their little episode in the broom closet at the gym and he had taken to stay in her house. Rob had left the house, and her, and she had not seen him except to finalize the divorce papers. When Rob met Ronaldo he wanted to bash his face in but seeing the hulking form of the man decided against it or else he would be the one to get his teeth mashed in.

It was the same recurring dream she has had for the last three weeks. Ronaldo was some industrial spy and he was using her to get at Helga. The dream then turned to her working naked in her own job for less pay and doing menial work. She laid her head back down on the pillow and tried to get some sleep as she cradled next to her Adonis. She was thankful that it was only but a dream and that she wouldn't be subjected to such horrifying ordeals.

Morning came and Ronaldo walked in with breakfast in hand to a still sleeping Cindy. He sat down on the bed and lightly nudged her awake. Cindy sat up, covers covering her breasts, and trying to wipe the sleep from her eye.

"You woke up again last night." he told her. "Was it a bad dream again?"

Cindy drank some of the coffee and wiped the sleep from her eye. "Same dream. I begged Helga for my old job back and she made me work naked surrounded by a bunch of smelly men."

"Sounds sexy." Ronaldo quipped much to Cindy's anger and admitted arousal.

"Shut up you." she said. "But that wasn't the worst part. The worst part was you were some spy from a rival company trying to bring Helga down. And that you didn't even love me anymore, or you never did. Honestly, these three bitches from the gym heckled me for trying to get with you. They were saying that you were only after me for easy sex or some other bullshit reason."

"A spy?" Ronaldo asked suddenly off guard and very serious, a hint of worry and fear in his voice.

"Yeah." Cindy said finishing off her coffee. "Why?"

"Are you sure you're not psychic?" he asked her not even looking at her.

Cindy laid her cup down on the table and looked at him with a serious expression on her face.

"Why?" she asked.

"Because, that's what I am." he told her.

Cindy grabbed him tightly by the arm. "What?"

"Cindy, I do work for another, rival company, and I was sent to spy on Helga." he told her.

"And what about everything else? The video game council being a communication device, you not loving me?" she asked frantically.

"The video games are somewhat true. I have a device in there that was recording everything and before I got kicked out I took the hard drive that have everything about Helga's dealings. Truth is, Helga's been blackmailing and embezzling money from other companies for years, driving many competitors out of business." he told her. "I used to work for the CIA and had training in espionage before I came to work for my current employer. The Excalibur Publishing Company."

Cindy jumped out of bed still naked and not covering anything. The look on her face was one of shock and awe. Of course she had heard about Excalibur. They were the top publishing company in the state and even one of the top ten in the nation. Her company was nothing in comparison but why would they feel threatened by Helga? She had no power over them.

"And, what about you not loving me?" she asked him desultory.

"Originally, I tried to get close to you, so I could gleam some information out of you about Helga. I was hitting a snag and I couldn't figure out what to do so I started coming to the gym where you frequented." he told her, which made Cindy wince in pain a little at the idea that her Adonis really was only after her for information. "But then I got to spend some time with you. I got to know you and see how you were and damn, I was so in love, and then I remembered how much I would've hurt you if this was to come out. So, I kept it to myself. I never meant to let this escalate so much. I'm sorry."

"So, you really was only after me to get at Helga." she said. "But you love me?"

"More than anything princess." he told her and rose to his feet. He stripped off his clothes and walked over to her. His hand lightly caressed her cheeks. "You are the only person I will ever love. Now and forever."

Hearing him say that brought tears to her eyes. She was in love with him and he was in love with her. She kissed him as her hand touched his abs. Ronaldo picked her up and led her to the bathroom. After a shower sex and some breakfast. They sat and talked for a little while.

"What are we going to do?" she asked finally calmed down from her dream.

"I have to get this information to my boss and then we can take down Helga." he told her.

"What about me?" she asked. "What'll happen to me? All I've been through over the last couple of weeks. All you've told me. What am I supposed to do with this?"

"Do you love me?" he asked her.

She looked at him with tears in her eyes and nodded her head in response without saying a word.

"Then trust me that I will take care of you." he told her.

"You do this, you take her down, and you're putting so many people out of business." she told him. "There must be another way."

"You can always run away with me like I suggested in the closet." he told her.

"No, I can't run away." she told him.

"When we take down Helga, and we will, we'll need someone to step up. Someone who can properly run a company like yours." he told her. "We need a contingency when this goes down. So, how about it then, Excalibur has the power to put you in control of the largest Christian publishing company in this city. Under you the company can thrive and do good and finally get out of the bad stench that Helga brought to it. Will you stand with me?"

Cindy didn't say anything. She sat there and thought about it for a moment as she came to the truth. Helga needed to be taken down and they were the only ones to do it. Cindy smiled and nodded her head in response. She was going to take this bitch down one-way or another.

# Chapter 11

# August 14, 1944

A single light illuminated the huge office desk of the co-publisher of Double Down Christian Publishing Robert Paliakov It was late into the evening and as his norm stayed late into the night fretting over financials. He along with his partner Gustave Adler established the company fourteen years earlier in the back of a bookstore owned by Gustave's father. Together they had grown the company into fifty employees and a state wide distribution.

A knock on the door let Robert know someone arrived to visit which was unusual at this hour. He looked up from his desk across the massive room and called out, "Come in."

The door opened and a young Helga Adler stepped through the door dressed in a brown Victory suit and matching hat. She had a long thin cigarette dangling between her thin fingers with a glowing ash tip that danced along with each step from her two inch heels. As she clip clopped across the wood floor, Robert leaned back in his chair and took a sip of his whiskey.

"Helga, what are you doing here?" Robert asked.

Helga stopped short of the desk and tapped her ash into the ashtray on Robert's desk. "I'm here to make you an offer."

"An offer? What do you have to offer me? Did your father send you here?"

"No, he has no idea I'm here."

"Tell me Helga, how old are you? Twenty two, twenty three years old?" Robert asked.

"Nineteen," Helga replied. "Do I look older?" she asked annoyed.

"I am sorry, I didn't mean to offend you."

Helga tapped her foot and regained her composure. Her looks meant a lot to her. "I want you to leave the company."

Taken aback Robert smirked before he replied. "Why would I do that?" he asked.

"I want my father to be the sole owner of the company."

"Your father can't afford to buy me out, hell I can't afford to buy me out," Robert replied.

"I don't expect my father to buy anything, I expect you to hand it over and for you to be gone."

Robert squinted his eyes and shook his head. He didn't even realize he was doing it. "That is absurd," Robert replied. "What makes you think I would do that?"

"If you don't I will tell everyone of your affair, you will be ruined."

"Affair? What affair?" Robert asked. He took another sip of his whiskey and set the glass down on his desk.

"With me, a nineteen year old girl and the daughter of your partner," Helga replied with a grin.

"You little bitch," Robert replied. "No one would ever believe you."

"Oh, I'm sure they would," Helga replied. "I made sure people saw me enter the building. I made sure I spoke to everyone you knew that I was coming here tonight to talk to you."

"Talking is one thing," Robert replied. "An affair is something completely different."

"Then how about rape?"

Robert knew he was alone with the young woman and there was no witnesses to back him up if she made an accusation. "You would have to explain why you were here. No one would believe your story."

"I left my panties in your bedroom. I'm sure your wife has found them by now."

"How would you get into my house? The door is always locked," Robert replied.

"The company has copies dumbass," Helga replied. "I made sure to leave some stains on them so your wife would have reason to suspect you."

"Did you sign your name on them as well?" Robert asked.

"I didn't have to, when I accuse of you rape she will put one and one together."

"So you want to put me in jail and let your father take over the company?" Robert asked.

"That would be too much work, I'd prefer you sign over your partnership and go away. Then you and your wife and fight over the panties and move on as well."

"And how would I explain why I gave our company to your father?" Robert asked.

"That's up to you," Helga replied. She took off her jacket and set it on Robert's desk. She unbuttoned her shirt and set it atop the jacket and worked on her bra.

"What are you doing now?" Robert asked.

"You can't rape me with my clothes on," Helga replied.

"You are insane, your plan will never work. How will you fake the injuries? If you don't look beat up no one will believe you."

"Touché," Helga replied. "See, you are a smart man. I don't think it will be too hard to make a few cuts and bruises."

"Do you plan to strip me as well?" Robert asked.

"No, when the police find me in the street naked and bleeding they will believe anything I say. You will go to prison and my father will own your company. If you sign over the company tonight, I will let you keep a small amount of money."

"How small?" Robert asked.

"Ten thousand dollars, in cash," Helga replied.

Robert knew ten thousand wasn't a lot of money, but to the average worker it was a fortune. "Let me think on this."

Helga dropped her bra to the floor and unbuttoned her skirt. "You have five minutes."

"Do you think I have the documents to sign over this company here in my office? This would take weeks, with lawyers and bankers getting involved."

The skirt hit the floor and Helga stood in her panties and hose before the desk. "Take out a sheet of paper and write a note stating you are handing over your partnership to my father and sign it."

"It would need to be notarized, are you a notary?" Robert asked.

"I'm growing tired of your stalling," Helga stated slipping her panties to the floor. She stood back upright exposing her hairy crotch to Robert.

"Fine," Robert stated and pulled a sheet of paper from his desk. He scribbled down on the sheet what Helga wanted him to write and signed the paper. He slid it over to Helga and she picked it up and read it. As she set the paper back down she saw Robert holding a pistol at her and it shocked her.

"You asshole," Helga stated looking Robert in the eye. "I should have known you'd keep a gun in your desk."

"I spend a lot of evenings working alone, I have to protect myself."

"Yeah, I know, my father tells me all about it, about your gun and where you keep it."

Robert didn't like Helga's tone. It was as if she knew more than she should have.

"I also have keys to your office and your desk. You might want to check your gun."

Robert looked at the revolver and saw the bullets were missing. Then he pulled out his drawer and saw his box of ammunition was missing.

"Do you think I'm stupid?" Helga asked. "I had this planned for months. Now that I see you were willing to kill me I think I should go with plan B."

"You remind me of your father, an egotistical asshole. Always scheming a new plan. Most of them never work."

"But some do, you are living on his success."

"We are half a million dollars in debt young lady. Don't think for a moment that your father is some sort of genius. If he does get sole ownership of the company he will also get all the debt that goes along with it."

"Plan B fixes all that," Helga replied. "In case of death your company insurance will pay a million dollars. That is more than enough to pay off any debt and the company will grow to the largest Christian book publishing company in the five state region."

"And how do you plan to kill me? You're naked," Robert stated. "Are you going to kill me with your naked body?"

Helga leaned down and fished a pistol from her skirt pocket and stood up. She pointed it at Robert and smiled. "Mine has all the bullets."

"Does your insurance cover murder? Did you check the policy? Killing me may void the coverage."

Helga didn't think of that. She never read the full policy and what Robert said did make sense. What if killing him did void the policy? Now she was back to plan A. "I guess we're back to you raping me," Helga stated disappointed.

"If you're going to accuse me of having sex with you, the least you could do is let me fuck you."

"I bet you would like that," Helga replied. "I've seen the way you gawk at me when I'm around. I bet you fantasize about fucking me on your office desk all the time. Wouldn't you like to get some nineteen year old pussy."

"I've had younger than that," Robert bragged. "A lot younger."

Helga was a bit surprised at his response. "How much younger?"

"Ten, eleven maybe?" Robert replied. He leaned back in his chair and crossed his hands behind his head looking to the dark ceiling. "I like them young."

"You sick bastard," Helga replied.

"You're standing naked with your hairy bush holding a gun at me making up a bogus rape story and you call me a sick bastard?" Robert asked. "That's the pot calling the kettle black."

"Child molestation is different," Helga snapped. "You should be in prison."

"So should you, bitch," Robert replied. "Put your clothes back on and get the hell out of here."

"No, I should kill you right now for what you did to those children!" Helga barked. She held the pistol closer to Robert and shook as she yelled.

"They deserved it," Robert replied. "They all did."

"They? How many were there?"

"I don't recall," Robert replied smug. "I suppose you were molested as a child as well. What? Did your father read to you at night before a good night fuck?"

Helga leaned against the front of the desk and pointed the barrel of the gun between Robert's eyes. She was ten inches away before she pulled the trigger and shot a hole in his head. He slumped backwards and fell off the chair onto the floor. The backsplash of blood sprinkled Helga's naked body and she backed up.

She noticed the paper that Robert had signed giving her father sole ownership of the company had small red drops along the upper right corner. She quickly got dressed, folded up the paper and slid it inside her skirt pocket. A quick scrub of bleach would remove the blood stains and now her father would own the company outright.

Into the night she fled, into the foggy darkness back to her home.

# Chapter 12

# Angela

Helga sat in her living room quiet and alone as she watched the blanks screen on the television and looked down at the game station that Ronaldo used to play all the time. A hint of concern and doubt crept into her as she wondered. Ronaldo had spent a great deal of time, when he was not at the gym, playing that stupid thing, and she always dismissed it as boys being boys. Men loved their stupid games and even though he was a ridiculous hot and fit guy, he was still a guy, and so she paid no mind to it.

She called in two of her butlers. They entered, wearing bowties, men's g-string, and boots and nothing else. Their fit and firm asses were hanging out of the back and their bulges were evident for her to see. They stood there waiting for her to address them. Helga finished her drink and sat it down on the table.

"Get rid of that stupid game for me." she commanded of them. "Throw it in the fucking incinerator, sell it on EBay, I don't give a good goddamn. I just don't want to see the fucking thing ever again."

"Yes ma'am." The butler on the right said and walked over to disconnect it. Helga turned to the guy on the left and slowly made a come hither motion with her finger. He slowly approached her but quickly stopped as he realized her eyes trained carefully on his crotch and quickly and without questioning, took it off, letting his cock free. The man walked over to her and got on his knees. Helga fixed herself and spread her legs. The Butler pulled down her panties and he set about bringing her off.

Helga had felt a little morose over the whole ordeal. She was not the type of woman whom men would cheat on. Usually, due to her power, her wealth, and even despite her looks, men would often want to be with her. She was the talk of the high-class echelon and she was someone that people both feared and often times admired. The woman was cutthroat, brutal, a devious and manipulative bitch who no one missed with.

There was a time when some guy tried to play her. He came off as being a young guy who got his rocks off going after old broads and he played her. Gave her compliments, bought her flowers, massage, walked around naked at the house, took her to Fiji, Cancun, fucking Bali, and she didn't even know where Bali was. Of course, she had him arrested once they got to Bali, when they found three kilos of heroin on him. He said that he had never seen that in his life but they didn't buy it. The police strip-searched him that last for two hours and when it was finished, he was carted off to prison. Helga found out that the motherfucker was the grandson of her bastard Father's old business partner and that he was trying to get back at her for killing him when she was nineteen. He was only twenty-five and due to a successful acting and modeling career, he had accumulated a sizeable fortune, and he was aiming for some payback.

Little did he know that she had the runt investigated and found correspondences with someone else. That was when she was sixty-five and admittedly, she was in love with him, even though she was too old. She was willing to believe in all that fairy tale love at first sight bullshit. But, she learned an important lesson. Love, companionship, marriage, it was all bullshit, just stuff that people use to handle the loneliness of life. She enjoyed the independence. She wanted it. No one could hold her down, no one could tell her what to do, she didn't need any fucking man to make her happy. She was power and she had everything that she ever wanted.

Helga felt her orgasm approach as her Butler took out the game station but clumsily tripped and threw it on the ground crashing it on the floor. Helga sighed heavily and rolled her eyes throwing the guy off of her and fixing herself before rising to her feet.

"You fucking idiot." she said. "Do you know what you did? How fucking worthless can you be?" She walked over to him and slapped him in the face. "Pick this shit up and take it to the trash––naked."

"Y-yes ma'am." The butler said and removed his outfit. He began collecting the system and Helga looked down. When she did, she noticed something interesting, a little machine that looked to be a communication device.

"Wait." she said. She pointed to the device. "Pick that up and hand it to me."

The Butler picked it up and handed it to her. Rage, fury, indignation, and horror crept into her as she realized what it was. Helga looked at her Butler.

"Find that goddamn cunt licker and bring him to me now!" Her right eye twitched as she allowed her rage to take her away to thoughts of what Ronaldo used this device for. She knew one thing for damn sure, it wasn't for no fucking games, and she would make him pay. Both him and that stupid fat ugly cunt, they would pay for their actions, and she'll get her vengeance.

Ronaldo walked into the kitchen wearing shorts and a shirt. He wrapped his arms around Cindy as she prepared a meal for them and gave her a kiss on her cheek. Two days had passed since she found out about her spy boyfriend and even though he lied and kept secrets from her. He was the man she loved and he was hers, now and forever.

"When's your contact going to be here?" she asked.

"She should be here in fifteen." he told her.

"Time for a little romp or what?" she said with a smile on her face.

"We already did it twice this morning." he told her.

"What can I say, you bring out the beast in me." she said.

Ronaldo kissed her on her cheek and leaned his head against hers.

"Maybe, we got time for one thing." he told her. "Do you think you can turn around? Face me."

She did as he asked and looked up at him as she waited for what he had to say.

"I wanted you to come with me three weeks ago." he told her.

"Ronaldo." she said.

"I get why you stayed and I love you even more for that." he told her. "You're a brave, strong, terrific woman, who's unafraid of doing what her heart says and you love hard. And now, I'm asking again, I want you to come away with me. But not to run away."

Ronaldo got on one knee much to Cindy's shock and awe. He took out a ring and showed it to her. "As a celebration. That is if you'd want to go."

Cindy said nothing, but nodded her head, tears in her eyes and her hands in front of her mouth barely able to breathe right.

"I'll start looking for airline tickets." she said, her eyes filling up with tears, and her stumbling over her words. Ronaldo's mouth shaped into a grin and he stood up grabbing hold of her as he gave her a kiss on her lips.

The doorbell rang fifteen minutes later while Ronaldo and Cindy were talking and enjoying each other's company. It was like their first date, but better, and she couldn't believe that this was her life.

The doorbell rang again and Ronaldo left to open it.

"Hey." he said letting a woman in. She walked in to the kitchen and Cindy saw that it was Angela. Her eyes opened wide and her mouth dropped in awe as she saw her best friend standing in front of her as realization crept in knowing that she was the contact. Ronaldo walked into the kitchen and saw the two of them.

"Cindy, this is..." Ronaldo said.

"We know who we are." Angela said. "Been a long time girl."

"A–Angela? What are you doing here?" Cindy said finally.

"Let's talk." she said.

Angela and Cindy sat down at the table as Ronaldo made them all coffee and took a seat next to Cindy. Angela looked at Ronaldo intently.

"I'm surprised to see you wearing clothes, after all I've heard Helga put you through." Angela said with a hint of biting criticism in her voice.

"I was trying to not draw too much attention and be undercover." he said.

"You do know oftentimes, undercover, means 'under cover.'" she told him. "You're supposed to be a professional, not a gigolo. And what are you doing with Cindy while I'm left in the wind? You're supposed to be my partner in all this."

"Partner?" Cindy asked.

Angela turned to her. "Cindy, I'm not into books, or making them, at least. Truth is, I'm a spy, a private investigator and this lummox came to me a few months before it started and asked me to do this. He knew that my husband was working for Helga and that I could get a job at Double Down. I did and I came on as a ground floor worker. In that time I tried to get information on our boss and whatever I found, I sent to Ronaldo, whom was working Helga's home. He sent files, information, recordings, papers, everything, and enough to put Helga away for the rest of her life." Angela tapped her briefcase. "It's all here. In this bag. All I need is the hard drive and we can take down Double Down and Helga's whole regime, put them away for good."

"Wait, what do you mean take down Double Down? It's just about taking down that bitch Helga?" Cindy asked.

"Helga is just one part of it. Truth is, her whole board of directors and constituents are in on the operation. Nearly sixty percent of Helga's higher ups are in on this and they all have stake in Helga's dealings. Both legal and illegal. We come after Helga, we're essentially, coming after everyone who controls Double Down." Ronaldo said. "Shareholders, lawyers, financial experts, everyone, will go to jail for this."

"And what about the employees?" Cindy asked. "The regular working sons of bitches who just wants to make a living and support themselves?"

"Cindy, it's anarchy in there, a tyrannical rule helmed by a decrepit and monstrous woman. You know what she did, in 1944, killed her Father's best friend and cofounder of your company. Shot him in cold blood in the dead of night and then went after his family. His children, his wife, his grandchildren, took them all down. Some were put in the ground, the others had to flee for other countries in fear of their lives." Angela said. "Helga was nineteen when she committed her first murder."

"First?" Cindy asked fearful.

"She killed three more men, pretended to be sexually interested in them, slept with them, and then whilst they enjoyed their breakfasts. She poisoned them." Ronaldo said. "Right there in the kitchen. But not before having them sign over everything they had. These were guys who never had any children or all their children were gone. So, they had no one to hand over their assets."

"Except to her." Angela said as she took a sip of her coffee. "She needs to go down. For them and for everyone in that company. Cindy, John, you remember, my husband, he knew about me but he didn't know why I had to do this. So when he found out who I was, why I had him do what he did, what was needed, he couldn't take that his wife was going to this length and was willing to put him through this. He shot himself, a month before, my kids saw it and they still can't talk to me about what happened."

"I––Angela I'm so sorry." Cindy said.

Angela leaned in and grabbed Cindy's hand. "Ronaldo tells me that when we take down Helga, you'll step up, good. We need someone who can run this company properly. Especially since Excalibur will be buying out ownership of the company and signing over legal run of it to you."

"You're serious?" Cindy asked. "I mean, I said I would it, but how?"

"It's already done." Ronaldo said. "Excalibur finalized papers yesterday and all they're waiting for is your signature."

"Ok so what are waiting for?" Cindy asked them.

"For Ronaldo to hand over the hard drive and then we'll go to the police and have her arrested." Angela said.

"I don't think so," said Helga, coming out from the bedroom, hard drive in one hand and a gun in the other. Everyone stood up from the table and stepped back from him.

"Helga?" Cindy said. "How'd you find us?"

"You're bug linked straight to a phone, which I traced to here, to Angela my scheming little bitch of an ex-employee." She turned the gun to Angela. "Shame I heard about John, he was great." she said with a smile on her face.

"Helga don't do this." Cindy said.

"God damn all of you fucking snakes." she said seething in rage. She pointed the gun at Ronaldo. "Especially you, you, you, you, you made me love you. You made me want you and I fell for it like a fucking idiot." Helga cocked the gun. "I'm going to destroy this thing and burn every ounce of information you have but not before killing you."

"Helga." Cindy said.

Helga quickly pointed the gun at her. "Don't move! Don't you move one muscle. None of you will take me down."

"You're a monster." Cindy said. "All the things you've done, the people you've hurt, how could you?"

"You don't know." she said. "You have no idea how cruel and vicious life could be. How unforgivingly monstrous people are deep down."

Helga's mind drifted back to her childhood home as her Father entered her room and closed the door. Her shaking and frightened body planted firmly on the bed as she looked up at him, as he laid a hand on her shoulder. Her mind came back to the present.

"I am owed. Everything." she said. "And I will not let anyone take that from me."

"Kill me." Ronaldo said. Helga turned the gun back on him. "Helga, I tricked you, like you said, I tricked you, so kill me, take the files and the hard drive and leave Cindy alone."

Helga lightened up a bit but quickly fired at him hitting him in the arm causing him to fall to the ground. In that moment, Cindy rushed at Helga, and the combination of her weight and the training she had done in the gym made her strong enough to take down the old wretch down. The fall had broken Helga's back and she laid on the ground writhing in pain as she screamed obscenity after obscenity at the three of them.

The police showed up after that and carted her away in an ambulance. Ronaldo was taken out on a stretcher with Cindy beside him. They got into the ambulance and rode to the hospital.

Days later, they heard about the indictment of all of them, lawyers, judges, members of the upper class, all of them taken down and put in prison. Anyone who was connected to Helga in any way were put in jail and the papers that Excalibur wrote were delivered to the hospital, and given to Cindy to sign.

"Finalize here, and initial here, and once more on this page." The lawyer said as he closed the large stack of papers. "And we're done. Congratulations Miss, you are now the sole proprietor and owner of the Double Down Christian Publishing Company. Congrats." The man took his leave as Cindy looked at a still unconscious Ronaldo.

She gave him a kiss on his cheek and he opened his eyes to see her.

"You crazy son of a bitch, you nearly killed me too with that crazy stunt. Don't ever do that again." she told him.

"But why not, it makes you so worried about me." he said as Cindy laughed and kissed him again on the lips.

Ronaldo was released the day after and three months later, they were married. Cindy was the head of the largest company in the state and now, was one of the greatest, with fifteen best sellers, a large pool of clients, and appearing on the front of Forbes magazine.

They went to Italy for their wedding and took a condo near the beach. Cindy stood at the balcony of her room as a barely dressed, wearing nothing but a male stripper g-string and bowtie, walked out onto the balcony. As his lovely, and moderately big, wife stood staring at the clear sky, the nightly ocean, and the beauty of Italy. He wrapped his arms around her as she stood wearing a nightgown and she turned to him. She kissed him and he took off his underwear as he got on his knees and kissed her up her legs and went to eat her out. Cindy enjoyed the feel of his lips and the warmth of his skin between her legs.

She thought back to the first time they talked in the gym. The coffee, the drive, him calling her a princess, treating her like one, all the crazy stuff that happened between them and with Helga, it seemed so far away now. But, none of that mattered now, all that mattered was she used to go to the gym at five a.m., who the fuck went to the gym at five a.m.?

The End
