 
# Room Service

### (Good Girls Gone Bad Volume 1)

## Mindy Wilde

This is a work of fiction. All characters and events portrayed in this work are either fictitious or are used fictitiously. Any similarity is purely coincidental

This book contains mature content and is solely for adults.

* * *

No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, transmitted in any form or by any means without prior written permission of the publisher. The rights of the authors of this work has been asserted by him/her in accordance with the Copyright, Designs, and Patents Act 1988.

* * *

Cover Photo provided by Big Stock Photo

* * *

Copyright © 2018 Mindy Wilde

All rights reserved.

### Contents

Free Books

Room Service

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Chapter 9

Chapter 10

Chapter 11

Chapter 12

Chapter 13

Chapter 14

Chapter 15

Chapter 16

Chapter 17

Chapter 18

Crave Part One

From The Author
Dear Readers,

Thank you for purchasing this ebook. Hopefully you will enjoy reading it as much as I enjoyed writing it!

For all of my books you can visit my website www.mindywilde.com.

* * *

XOXO,

Mindy Wilde

* * *

**Find me at:**

www.mindywilde.com

www.facebook.com/mindywilderomance

twitter.com/mindywilde

instagram.com/mindywilderomance

* * *

**You can sign up for my monthly new release mailing lists:**

Mindy Wilde Mailing List

* * *

**For More Stories By Mindy you can click on the tab in the table of contents or see the page in the back of this book.**

# Free Books

**Steamy Contemporary Romance**

Room Service (Good Girls Gone Bad Volume 1)

Erotic Romance Starter Pack (7 Story Bundle)

Desires Part One

Crave Part One

Friend's With Benefits (Sin City Secrets Vol. 1)

The Bet (Billionaire's Bed Vol. 1)

Private Island (Sexy Summer Vol. 1)

Training (Billionaire Submission Part One)

Billionaire Starter Pack

My First Time (Sexy Secrets Volume 1)

Erotica Starter Pack

Tempt Me (Annie's Backdoor Fun Story)

* * *

**Paranormal Romance**

Paranormal Romance Starter Pack

Lust (Immortal Desires Vol. 1)

Paranormal Pleasure (A Vampire's Tale Vol. 1)

Virgin Blood (Erotic Vampire Tales Vol. 1)

# Room Service
# Chapter 1

"God I am fucking broke," I yelled to no-one in particular.

* * *

My state of affairs lately had gotten rather bleak, which was quite apparent from the wrappers laying around the room. Specifically, they were all wrappers from the dollar menu since I was currently trying to live off of just a couple of dollars a day in food.

It was depressing but on a pure calorie for calorie basis there was nothing quite as cheap as the fast food restaurants. With just a couple of dollars I was able to muster a thousand calories a day which at the grocery store, despite my best efforts, had proven far more difficult.

I had tried a depressing array of methods to stretch the food budget from noodles to peanut butter and jelly but nothing packed quite the economically efficient punch of the local burger joint. Now I had no idea what this was doing to my health but I was just going to have to worry about that later.

The bitch of it was that all of this sacrifice was because of him. It's all because of that stupid no-good mother-fucker that I somehow blindly fell for.

Why the hell had I blown all my money trying to save his ass? He was a small-prick guitar player of a band that wasn't even all that good.

Somehow the asshole had swept me off of my feet. I got caught up in the romance of it. It all seemed so perfect at the time and for some reason his mountain of debt and horrible habits with money didn't set off any red flags.

I was nothing special. I came from a pretty fucked up household as a kid and moved out as soon as I could. My battling parents provided a particularly toxic environment which did nothing but help toughen me up. From the first day on my own after leaving their house I took responsibility for my life. I worked my ass off to provide for myself because I knew that no-one else would.

I never went to college and I didn't have any connections. Pure grit scored me that first job and determination built up my savings. I was in a really good place went that train-wreck of a man crashed into my life.

Somehow he convinced me that it was my own idea to pay off his debts. I then worked my ass off to allow him to live rent free while he pursued his musical dreams. All of this while he fed the fantasy in my head of him taking me away from my decidedly difficult and grinding blue-collar life.

He was going to pay me back ten-fold. He was going to give me a life a luxury. It would all be worth it in the end.

What a sucker. What a chump. I am such a fucking idiot.

Amazingly an opportunity eventually did come their way and they were offered the chance to go on the road and open for a pretty popular up-and-coming band.

He didn't even have the decency to lie to me. He just packed up his shit and left.

I had served my purpose. He had gotten his free-ride.

I swore to myself that I would never, ever, be anyones free ride ever again!

# Chapter 2

"I'm so sorry Lucy but I have to let you go."

The words hung in the air as I tried to process what I was hearing.

No. It can't be. It can't.

"It's nothing personal Lucy, you're great. It's just that the restaurant hasn't been doing so well for the past couple of years and it's getting to the point where I am having trouble paying the bills."

"But Andy...," I replied without knowing how to end the sentence.

"To be honest, I will probably be out of business soon enough and we will all be looking for jobs. In the meantime I have to try and cut expenses and you were the last one hired so you have the lowest seniority. It's only fair."

It was hard to argue with sweet simple Andy. I loved him and he had been good to me. Although I felt like I was a better worker than some of the others in the restaurant, none of them were bad and no-one deserved to be let go. I couldn't argue with his seniority logic. However, given my current circumstances I didn't have the luxury of being agreeable.

"Andy, I understand, I really do. But...um...can you keep me on just a little while longer? Just while I look for a new job? Please?"

I was begging at this point and I hated the sound of my own voice. This was not like me. I was the strong independent girl who made it all on my own and now I was reduced to begging for a handout.

The truth of the matter was that the job market around us sucked for a girl like me and I barely had two pennies to rub together. I wasn't sure if I would starve first or be kicked out onto the streets.

My mind drifted as I considered that maybe before I starved I would have just enough time to hunt down that guitar playing limp-dick pussy and cut off his...

"I am sorry Lucy, I really am. I wish that I could help but I have to think about my family and the families of all the other employees. Every extra day that I keep you on means we are that much closer to shutting our doors for good. I am truly sorry.

My entire body slumped as my eyes drifted from his down to the floor. I was done fighting. After losing all my money, the man I thought I was in love with, my family, and now my job...I was just...done.

"If there is anything else I can do Lucy please let me know. If you need a reference or anything I will tell them that you are one of the greatest hardest working women I have ever met.

Andy hugged me and I let him. I hated what he was doing but I had no hatred for the man. He had been nothing but good to me over the years. Eventually, as the tears started to gather in the corners of my eyes, I pulled away from his embrace.

"Is it ok if I go ahead and close out my tables before I go?"

"Of course it is Lucy," Andy responded with a pained tone in his voice. I could tell that he wanted to take it all back and that he would if he could. Instead, Andy reached up and wiped away some wetness from his own eyes before returning to the kitchen.

I spent the next twenty minutes making sure that all of my customers had their food and settling the checks when they were done. There was always an interesting mix of people in Andy's diner. Today I had a family that looked like they had gotten dressed up in their Sunday best for something. I had a young hopeful couple flirting away while another couple in their seventies sat silently in the booth behind them, holding each others hands without a word needing to be said.

My eyes lingered on the sweet older couple. I wondered about their life. I wondered about the stories they could tell. I wondered if I might someday ever be able to find that same thing. Would I ever find someone who I could sit across from without a word said, feeling completely content?

"Lucy, order up," Derek shouted from the kitchen. This plate was for my last official customer. The man whom I would be delivering it to definitely didn't seem like he belonged here. The dark haired man with the penetrating blue eyes looked to be wearing a suit that was worth more than I could make in five years. He was impeccably groomed but had a confident relaxed low-maintenance feel about him.

He looked like he would be just as at home modeling for a famous fashion line as he would running some multi-billion dollar company. People like him did brunch in fancy hotel restaurants, they didn't stop into diners like this. He seemed out of place but I couldn't complain about the view. He almost had me forgetting about the fact that my life had just completely exploded.

"Here ya go," I said with a trembling voice. "Is there anything else I can get for you?"

I was having a hard time keeping it together and it was obvious that I had been crying.

"Are you ok," the stranger asked with a look of true concern in his eyes.

"Yes...um...well...no to be honest."

With little left to lose I found myself opening up to this complete stranger.

"I just got fired actually. I just got fired right after my previous boyfriend ran off with all of my money so actually today is turning out to be a real shitty day."

My own words shocked me and I looked around to see if anyone was staring. Why was I telling this stranger about my problems? This sexy-model of a man had just stopped in for something to eat and now he had to listen to his waitress babble on about her fucked up life.

I decided to cut myself off and go hide in the back until all the tables had turned and I could leave.

"Um sorry, I shouldn't have said that. I gotta go."

As I was turning to run away I could see him open his mouth in an attempt to say something. I didn't give him the chance and instead headed straight for the bathroom where I spent the next ten minutes crying.

When I finally emerged from my personal pity party I looked around the restaurant and saw that all of my tables were empty. I hadn't even brought the dapper man his check yet. Did that asshole dine-and-dash? Is that how he afforded such expensive suits. That cocksucking motherfuck...

Before I could finish the though Andy walked up to me. "It looked like you could use a moment so I went ahead and closed out your checks. There was one...well...there was one guy that left you a rather large tip.

I looked up from the floor into Andy's eyes.

"The man in the corner booth, he left this for you."

Andy handed me a huge wad of cash that made my eyes go wide. I couldn't help but start counting it and almost forgot to breathe when I realized that the sexy man in a suit had left me a $1000 tip on his $32 bill.

"Is this real," I asked Andy.

"Yes, this is real and it is yours. I love you Lucy and thank you for being such an excellent person to work with."

Andy pulled me back into his bear-like grip and gave me one last hug.

With my last shift over it was time to leave. I pushed the cash into my pocket and shuffled out of the restaurant, not sure exactly where I was heading. I must have walked for hours before finally heading home with sore burning feet.

My body collapsed onto the bed and I didn't even take the time to undress. I was exhausted, mentally and physically exhausted. I just didn't have the energy to even take off my shoes.

As my eyes slid shut I knew that I would need to spend the rest of the day on the internet looking for new work. I still had internet at my apartment for the moment so I may as well use it. That was another bill that I was not going to be able to pay after the mysterious man's money ran out. Soon I would need to lug my computer around town looking for free wifi, that is of course if I wasn't kicked out of my apartment first for not being able to pay my rent in which case wifi could end up being the least of my problems.

With that last wonderfully painful thought my eyes finally sealed shut and my brain closed down operations from complete and utter depletion.

I had nothing left. I needed to sleep.

# Chapter 3

What was meant to be a nap turned into an entire day in bed. I was asleep for most of the time but when I did awake I could not summon the energy to confront the world that lay before me.

The next morning I did finally slid reluctantly out of my warm sheets and took a long hot shower. Today was going to be a long day.

I needed employment, like right now! Because of my former resident music shit-head I was left with no cushion to get me by while I looked for another job. Every day that ticked off the calendar was another bill that was not going to get paid.

After running through most of the hot water I eventually got out and dried off. It was now time to sit my butt in the chair at the computer and spend as many hours as it took to find someone, anyone, that would hire me.

The biggest problem these days was that it was hard to find a job for someone like me unless you knew somebody. Most of the openings online were for college graduates or for special skills that I didn't have. The other option was to drive around town and knock on doors but that could be a huge waste of both time and gas which of course meant money...which I didn't have.

I clicked through several of the traditional job sites spending hours getting more and more depressed. With each description I tried to fit my square peg into the round hole of their job description but in the end it seemed useless. There just wasn't anything that remotely fit my " _resume_ " and it would be a waste of my time and their's for me to apply.

Eventually I found myself moving on from the traditional job boards and onto the more local online bulletin board that was more famous for selling your old shit and casual hookups then for finding a good job.

As I scanned through the job listings I at least started to see some that might consider a girl like me. I right clicked and sent each of the possible jobs to a new tab in my browser. None of these listings were anything I would normally look at but the fact is that I was desperate and not too proud to work hard at any job. I just needed to find something that could pay the bills and hopefully get me out of this financial pit that the asshole had left me in.

Then I saw it.

House-keeping. Not exactly an exciting job title but the hourly pay listed was incredible. I blinked my eyes a few times just to make sure I was seeing things correctly. How the hell could a house-keeper make so much money per hour?

Well I didn't care if they had me cleaning up dead bodies at a crime scene. For what they were offering to pay I was willing to clean up just about anything and despite the current state of affairs in my apartment I was actually a normally very tidy person.

I clicked on the email provided and sent along my resume with the best possible letter I could put together explaining how exactly a recent waitress would make an excellent housekeeper.

After rereading what I had written probably twenty times I finally pressed send and crossed my fingers. As luck would have it, I didn't have to wait long.

A red notification bubble popped up just an hour later letting me know that there was an unread message. It was from a woman named Mrs. Stark. I had scored an interview and she wanted me to come by tomorrow if I was available. Little did she know just how available I was.

I spent the rest of the evening trying to focus on other job listings but always coming back to tomorrows interview.

"How the hell do they pay so much money for that job?"

I just couldn't figure it out. Was this whole thing some sort of scam. I mean the earnings were almost in-line with something I would have expected to make with a newly minted engineering degree. I just didn't understand.

The thought also occurred to me that if that was on a public bulletin board and others could see the pay rate then there would probably be a line a mile long for interviews tomorrow. What were the odds that I could score something like that, especially without any direct experience?

Eventually my frazzled brain tired of the guessing games and urged me to sleep. I shut down the computer and slid back into the bed I had spent so much time in already. Tomorrow was going to be a big day and I needed some rest.

# Chapter 4

"What the hell?"

I looked down at the phone in my hands again to check the address.

Yup, this was it. The job listing had not said exactly what kind of business the housekeeper was for but this was not what I had been expecting. When I think of housekeepers I think of hotels or the cars that drive around to peoples homes. From this looks of it, this was neither.

I was now parked in front of an old sprawling mansion that was located about forty-five minutes outside the city. The house, if it could be called that, was enormous and sat privately nestled in the middle of a gigantic wooded estate. I had no idea this part of town even existed before.

The driveway had been long and meandering and once I finally arrived a young good looking man met me at the car before it even rolled to a stop. I rolled down the window, feeling quite intimidated by my surroundings.

"Good afternoon, you must be Lucy. Mrs. Stark is expecting you."

This was not exactly the welcome I had been anticipating for a housekeeper interview.

"If you will leave your keys with me I will be happy to take care of your car for you. There is someone just inside the doorway who will show you were to go."

"Um...ok," I said timidly as I put the car into park and slowly slid out of the front seat. I looked back several times making sure that I had not forgotten anything, or more likely, that I had not left anything embarrassing out for the valet to find.

Steadying myself, I then proceeded to the large massive front doors of the building. I grabbed the handle and pulled expecting to meet the weighted resistance of massive solid core wooden doors but instead they were perfectly balanced in such way as to make them almost weightless. The door accelerated at quickly and I almost hit myself in the face as I pulled far too hard. Luckily I was able to react and stop the door before making a complete ass of myself.

"Ok Lucy, just breath you idiot," I told myself as I walked through the doorway threshold and into the large ornate foyer of the well appointed mansion.

After closing the door a sound startled me and I yelped.

"Hello Ms. Edwards. I hope that you had a pleasant drive in."

I spun around to see a slightly older woman with a kind look on her face and I couldn't help but blush in embarrassment at my less than graceful entrance.

"Yes, thank you," were the only words I could seem to muster at the moment.

She smiled and motioned for me to sit down in a well-cushioned chair sitting just opposite of her reception desk. As the woman picked up the phone my eyes drifted around the room and I took in all the amazing art and decorations that surrounded me.

My eyes moved from one object to the next and it soon became apparent why they might pay so much for this job. The value of each item in this room is probably more than I would make in a lifetime and I would imagine that they want a housekeeping staff that is not going to break the priceless artifacts.

There was absolutely no way they were going to give this job to someone like me. I had exactly zero experience with anything like this. Quite frankly, as I looked around the room I wasn't sure that I wanted the job anymore. I couldn't imagine how nervous I would be day in and day out knowing that one clumsy act might destroy some million dollar piece of art.

"Ok Ms. Edwards, Mrs. Stark is ready for you now."

My stomach dropped.

Fuck. I needed a job and this position paid so well. My gut started to tie in knots as the urge to run away from this scary looking mansion battled with the urge to earn enough to eat.

I took a couple of deep breaths before pushing myself up and off of the chair. The muscles in my legs flexed to propel me forward as my doubts fought to keep my feet firmly planted to the floor.

"Fuck, come on Lucy. Pull yourself together. You are stronger than this," I said quietly inside my own head as I mustered the courage to let my legs take me down the hall and towards the dark mahogany door that the receptionist had pointed to.

One foot slowly swung in front of the other until finally I had arrived. I knocked before I had time to reconsider and after a three-second pause there was a response.

"Come in..."

# Chapter 5

I turned the door knob and pushed the heavy door forward. The office was beautiful and looked as if it might be the showpiece of some high-end interior decorator.

My eyes darted from the wall art to the beautiful ornate rug before moving up and connecting with the smiling face of Mrs. Stark.

I froze. I suddenly felt way out of my depth. This place was way too classy for me. For fuck's sake just a couple of days ago I was a waitress working for a second rate diner in the shitty end of town.

"Hello Lucy, please come in."

Mrs. Stark's voice shook me from my stupor and I finally snapped back to reality.

"Um...yes...of course. Hi."

"Strong start you fucking idiot," I scolded myself as I entered the room and shut the door behind me.

"Please have a seat," she said in an extremely pleasant and disarming voice.

I proceeded to take the desk in front of her chair and tried as hard as I could to focus on not fidgeting.

"So Lucy, tell me about yourself," she asked as she leaned back in her chair.

The atmosphere in the room seemed to instantly get less formal and I found myself feeling almost comfortable. Mrs. Stark let off an air of friendliness that was almost hard to describe. She was very disarming and her smile forced you to have one of your own when you looked at her.

I started going over my background in the most curated way possible. I skipped over the thief boyfriend, the financial hardships, the train wreck of a family, and the firing. I tried to highlight myself as a hard worker and evening tried to spin my firing as me looking for better opportunities. Mrs. Stark, in her very polite manner, was having none of it.

Lucy, my first impressions of you are good. I like you. However, there is one thing that I value above all others...honesty. I do my homework and know more about you than you probably realize.

I already spoke with your previous boss.

My heart skipped a beat as I realized I had just been caught in a lie. She had already talked to my boss? How, why? Don't they normally call references after the fact? I had just assumed for a job like housekeeping I didn't have to worry about providing references.

She continued, "Now I know that you did not quit but that you were let go. I also know that your boss spoke very highly of you and your work ethic."

I sat silently and listened, not sure exactly where she was going.

He said you could always be trusted to not only get the work done but to always do it to the best of your ability. In fact, he sounded pretty torn up about letting you go and that speaks more to me than any spin you want to put on the situation.

I flushed, feeling guilty for the little white lies.

We are quite selective about who we hire here and I need to know that I can trust you. We have some very important clients and your discretion is paramount.

Discretion? What the hell was she talking about?

"So, before we go any further why don't we start again. Lucy, why don't you tell me about yourself."

I paused for only a moment before letting the floodgates open. Mrs. Stark was so easy to talk to and one story led to another. Before long she knew more about my life than almost anyone ever had.

During my info-dump my eyes had drifted to the floor in shame. I still felt so stupid for letting a guy do that to me. I felt like an idiot for some of the other choices I had made along the way. Although I knew that I was a hard worker I was sure that anyone who worked as hard as I did and had half a brain should be miles ahead of where I was in life.

"Lucy, look at me."

It was then that I realized I had been looking at the floor for the last several minutes and again felt like a moron.

My eyes slowly drifted upwards until they met hers and I saw that damned infectious smile still on her face.

"Lucy, I am very impressed with the obstacles you have overcome. You sound exactly like the kind of girl we like to employ here."

I was shocked. This was officially turning into the weirdest interview I had ever heard of.

"Now before we go any further, do you have any questions for me?"

I couldn't believe it. I might actually get this job. All my troubles might actually be coming to an end. I did have a question for her but I was afraid to ask it. I begged myself not to.

"Just be grateful and move on you idiot," I scolded myself.

But my curiosity got the better of me and Mrs. Stark's disarming demeanor made it all too easy to be bold.

"Um, yes...I...I have one question."

I pause for a moment thinking about how exactly to frame the question. Eventually I realized there was just no delicate way to ask it and so I just pulled the trigger.

"Why are you paying so much money for a housekeeper?"

# Chapter 6

Mrs. Stark laughed and then responded, "I was wondering when you might ask that."

Things then turned more serious as she pulled up her chair closer to the desk. I straightened up in response and braced for the serious news she looked ready to impart.

"Well Lucy, we run a very particular kind of business here. Had you heard of us before the job listing?"

"No," I responded.

"Exactly," she replied.

"We provide a place of respite and fantasy fulfillment for a very well-heeled clientele."

"Fantasy fulfillment," the words rolled off my tongue in a questioning tone?

"Yes. Some of the most rich and powerful men in the world come here and we provide them with privacy, anonymity, and a staff of woman who provide them with a service they desperately require."

I thought that I understood what she was trying to say but I couldn't bring myself to believe it.

"These men could have just about any woman in the world and those woman might even be willing to give into their particular kinks or desires but the man will always be left wondering if there is an ulterior motive."

Yup, this place is exactly what I thought. I was now sitting down for a job interview in some super high-end brothel.

"These men need a safe place where they can explore a more vulnerable side of themselves with professionals that won't judge them and can keep a secret."

I now looked at Mrs. Stark in a whole new light. She looked to be in her forties or maybe fifties with blond hair, an excellent figure, and a powerful presence that seemed to make her ten feet tall. I had no doubt that she could stand toe-to-toe with any CEO and I was spellbound by the air of excellence that seemed to emanate from her.

"So you asked about the pay. The fact is that you would be a housekeeper and you would be cleaning up some rather elaborate messes after the client sessions. But more importantly, you will be a professional and a secret-keeper which is why the pay level is set where it is."

My mind raced.

"This job is not for everyone but I think for someone like you it might be a good fit. However, now that you know the full details I completely understand if you would like pass on the opportunity. Just know that if you accept you will be all-in. The secrets you keep will need to go to your grave with you. We take this vow very seriously."

Mrs. Stark now seemed to relax and leaned back in her chair.

"While I give you a moment to think it over can I get you something to drink?"

I tried to speak but the surge of nervous adrenaline had dried out my mouth and I had a difficult time forming the words.

I licked my lips and once the moisture had returned I finally responded, "Um, yes, a water would be great."

Mrs. Stark smiled at me and then with a quick wink she pushed up from the chair and left me in her office to ponder the offer.

Prostitution, or was it an escort service? Was I really willing to cross this line? I wasn't even sure how I felt about it. I had always been pretty liberal in my views that people should be able to do whatever they want with their own bodies but now that I was actually here...and being offered a job in the industry I felt like I was somehow doing something wrong.

Panic started to rise inside me as I wrestled with the ethics of the situation. The more I thought about it the more I thought there was nothing wrong with what they were doing here but the fact of the matter was it was still illegal. Did that mean I would be a criminal? Would the police come kicking down the door and slap handcuffs on me?

I knew that Mrs. Stark would not be gone long and I needed to come to some sort of conclusion quickly. This was not the kind of job offer I could ask for days to think about. If I walked out that door I was sure that they would offer it to some other more eager girl who was not tied up in existential knots.

Fuck I really needed this money. It was such a great opportunity and I really liked Mrs. Stark.

I could hear footsteps growing louder in the hall as the sand began to run out on my decision hourglass.

The jiggle of the doorknob signaled her return and I knew that my time was up.

Mrs. Stark walked into the office and handed me a bottle of water.

"So Lucy, what do you think? Would you like to join our little family?"

I sat silently for a few seconds reconsidering the decision I had already made but there would be no changing it.

"I'm in."

# Chapter 7

It was explained to me as we walked through the halls of the mansion that our clients came from around the world to partake in our particular services. These were powerful men from many different walks of life and we were as likely to encounter a prince as we were a CEO.

The men knew the rules and the punishments that could be dealt to them if they stepped out of line. The fact of the matter was that each man that visited was powerful to destroy Mrs. Stark's operation but they were not powerful enough to withstand the focused fury of all the other patrons. In the past when a man had dared to get out of line Mrs. Stark used the combined influence of the rest of her customers to destroy him.

It was actually quite amazing how much power this rather unassuming woman wielded. For this devotion she provided her clients with absolute privacy and a stable of girls that could fulfill almost any fantasy that her clients could dream up.

No one was judged here. Everyone had their desires and it was Mrs. Stark's job to facilitate the fulfillment of those desires.

The staff was made up of reception, security, housekeeping, and "room service".

Room service was the coy term that was used to refer to the girls that did the real work. It was their job to learn their clients, to know their wants and needs, and when appropriate to submit to these men.

From what I could gather the girls were very well compensated for turning their bodies over to the paying clients. Sometimes the men wanted a girlfriend experience and to feel loved. Other times they wanted the things that they would not and could not ask their prim and proper wives for in the bedroom.

Then there were other times when the men needed something more. Having to restrain themselves in the rest of their lives some of these alpha men needed a release...an animalistic, primal release.

This is when the security became important. Although they were most often hidden out of sight behind closed doors, both the girls and their clients knew that security was always only seconds away.

There were panic buttons placed strategically throughout the room as well as a portable one carried by each girl. Mrs. Stark pointed out that these buttons had almost never been used in the history of her establishment because the men knew that they would be immediately banned and possibly worse.

However, since I would be cleaning these rooms I needed to know where the buttons were so I didn't accidentally push them and also so that I could properly conceal them after each cleaning.

As we walked through the facility I was introduced to various members of the staff. Everyone seemed incredibly kind and I couldn't help but smile. The nerves were draining from my body and the excitement of my new paycheck began to take hold. In addition, if I was being honest, there was something extra exciting about working a job for such a taboo employer.

As we passed several closed doors Mrs. Stark noticed me quietly leaning towards them and chuckled.

"Yes there is some serious fucking going on behind those doors but you are not going to hear anything. All of our rooms are completely sound-proof."

I blushed a little at being caught snooping. Eventually, as we were heading down a long red-carpeted hallway a young girl appeared from around the corner and started walking towards us.

The girl could not have been any older than me and although beautiful, was not the bombshell knockout I had imaged. I had assumed that the richest and most powerful men in the world would desire nothing but supermodels but instead she had a very girl-next-door kind of vibe.

Her face lit up into a big smile as she approached.

"Jessica, this is Lucy. She is going to be joining us."

"It's great to meet you Lucy," Jessica said as I reached out my hand but she instead came in for a hug.

As she pulled away her eyes scanned me up and down and then she said, "Damn, you are going to be in high demand. Those boys are going to eat you up."

A look of shock spread across my face.

"Oh no, actually Lucy is not room service. She will be joining us on the housekeeping staff," Mrs. Stark said correcting Jessica's assumptions.

Jessica looked me up and down again and then looked back at Mrs. Stark.

"Well ok, but I think that is a serious misallocation of resources."

I now blushed uncontrollably. I wasn't sure whether to be horrified or flattered but if I was being honest it was much more of the latter.

"It was great to meet you Lucy. See you around."

Jessica then passed us and proceeded down the hall with a prideful swagger I couldn't help but be jealous of.

Mrs. Stark and I continued the tour including all of my duty areas. She told me that I could start tomorrow and that I would shadow a girl named Kelsey for the first day to get my bearings.

As we approached the front-door of the mansion the doors swung open and I found my car already parked at the bottom of the stairs with the valet holding my car door open. I had absolutely no idea how Mrs. Stark had signaled my exit but it was obvious that this business ran like a well-oiled machine.

"Lucy, it has been a pleasure meeting you. Now go home, relax, and get a good nights sleep."

I shook her hand and exited the house, descending down the stairs to my car.

"Congratulations," the valet said as I slid into the drivers seat and he shut my door. How the heck did he already know?

I pulled away from the house and down the drive. Eventually when I reached the street I took a right and proceeded about a mile down the road until pulling off on the grassy shoulder.

After the car was in park I put on my hazard lights, closed my eyes, and took several deep breaths. The day had been a complete whirlwind and I had not yet processed everything that had happened.

I still wrestled with the taboo nature of the job I had just accepted but as I sat there in the car I realized that it didn't matter. I had no family I had to explain myself to. I really liked all the people that I was going to be working with. Most importantly, my financial future was about to have more security than I had dared hope.

This was a good decision. This was the right decision.

I stayed parked for a few more minutes as the butterflies in my stomach settled. Once I felt calm and collected I clicked off the hazard lights and proceeded to pull back onto the road. It was time to go home.

# Chapter 8

The next day rolled around and I was actually able to sleep in for the first time in a long time. Although I was told that the work hours could vary, generally my shift would be later in the day.

This new schedule would normally be difficult as I was used to being an early riser but after the events of the past week I was physically and mentally exhausted so sleeping-in ended up not being a problem whatsoever.

I was told that my uniform would be waiting for me when I arrived so I spent some time standing in my closet debating what the hell to wear. I knew that I would be changing before going on shift but I wasn't sure if that meant I could show up in casual clothes or if I should dress up to look a little more professional.

Images of the beautiful mansion and million dollar table trinkets danced through my head and I decided to error on the side of dressing up too much. This place just didn't seem like the kind of job you could show up in your street clothes to. Plus, I wasn't sure when or if I might run into guests while on my way to change and I didn't want to embarrass Mrs. Stark or risk losing my lucrative new gig.

I ended up selecting the nicest blouse I had in the closet without a stain on it and a black skirt that I hadn't worn in an eternity. Hopefully this would be appropriate but I made a mental note to ask Kelsey what the protocol was for future reference. I was sure that before the day was over I would end up having a lot of questions for her but I also decided that I was going to do my best to keep my mouth shut and pay attention for most of my first shift.

I knew that my nerves may get the better of me and that if I started asking questions I might not stop. I wanted so badly to make a good impression for my first shift. Last night I had started to have dreams about the money and all the things I was going to be able to do now that I finally had a respectable paycheck.

There was going to be no more worrying about getting a second or third job. I was going to be able to replenish the savings that the asshole took before the year was even out if I lived frugally. Hell, if I was smart I might even learn how to invest this shit and turn a little money into a lot more so that I could finally buy my financial freedom.

I had read online all about a community of like minded people that were able to live a frugal life style and stash away a large percentage of their paycheck into stock index funds. These were mostly people of modest means that never even made that much money but by saving half of their paycheck and investing it every year they were able to grow their net-worth into the millions by the time they were in their forties and retire.

I had always been jealous and mad at myself that I hadn't been able to follow in their footsteps. I felt like I lived a severely modest lifestyle and yet I was always living paycheck to paycheck, never having even a penny left over to invest. It had taking me many years and tons of hard work to save up the little I had before mister guitar dip-shit blew it all.

But now...now I could see the light. The paycheck this job offered was a lot more than I had made before, even when I was working two jobs. As long as I was smart and didn't start spending it on stupid things I should be able to save and invest just like all those stories I had read about on those internet forums. I could still secure my financial independence and never have to worry about working to cover the bills again.

The idea of taking a job because I enjoyed it and not because I had to seemed like a pipe-dream. Yet now I was within sight of that goal. It would take lots of hard work and many years living below my means while saving money like never before but I finally felt like it was all possible. I finally felt like my "uneducated" blue-collar ass could reach for the brass ring. I vowed that once I got it I would make damn sure that no-one could ever take it away from me.

The conversation in my head finally came to a halt as I pulled up to the valet at the my new place of employment. I thought it was amazing that even after taking the job they still treated me like some rich high-flying guest. What other housekeepers do you know that were greeted with valet service when they arrive at work to clean up other peoples...messes!

# Chapter 9

"Good morning Lucy," the receptionist said in a cheerful voice as I walked through the doorway for the second time.

My mind raced for a name and suddenly I realized that I had rudely forgotten to ask her. This super nice cheerful woman knew my name and I had absolutely no idea who she was other than the pleasant woman who sat behind the desk in the foyer.

"Hi," I responded meekly as I debated what to say next.

My impulse was to pretend that I knew her name and to proceed from here on out using tricks of grammar to disguise the fact that I was an inconsiderate bitch.

Luckily my senses got the better of me and I realized that if I was going to be working here for the long term I really needed to learn her name and not be too proud to admit the things that I did not know.

"Hi," I said again awkwardly.

She looked back up from the papers on her desk.

"I am really sorry but I don't know if I ever got your name yesterday. I was so nervous about the interview I am afraid I forgot to ask."

The nameless lady smiled at my awkwardness.

"Oh don't worry honey. It's ok. My name is Bonnie."

The knots in my stomach began to subside.

"If you need anything at all please feel free to ask me," Bonnie said to me in a bit of a whisper.

"I know this place can be a little intimidating but don't you worry. Everyone that works here is great and Mrs. Stark...well Mrs. Stark is just absolutely one of a kind."

Her smile forced me to relax and I couldn't help but smile back.

"Well then I do have a question for you," I said as she leaned in closer, looking eager to help.

"Where can I find my uniform and change? In all the excitement yesterday I don't remember if Mrs. Stark told me where to go."

Bonnie chuckled a little and responded, "Of course honey. If you take that hallway over there and head down to the third door on your left there is a changing room which should have everything ready for you. Good luck on your first day."

"Thanks," I said as I followed her directions and wandered down the hall until I reached the third door. I pushed it open and was immediately hit by the scent of lavender. There was an ante-room and another door to open which then led into the actual changing room.

The room itself reminded me of what locker rooms looked like in the fancy country clubs that I had seen in movies. The only difference was that this room definitely seemed to have a feminine touch. The lighting was also a little dimmer providing an almost romantic mood to the place.

I proceeded in a few more steps, past the sinks, and towards what looked like the sectioned off area with fancy wooden lockers. Just as I turned the corner around the first set of lockers I heard the door to the changing room swing open and the voices of two other woman echoed against the walls.

The nerves returned as my stomach tied itself into knots. I wasn't sure why the other women made me nervous but somehow knowing what they were here to do or just as likely, what they had already done made the situation very unusual and I wasn't quite sure how to act.

The voices continued closer until eventually they turned the corner as well and I could see that one of the two woman was Jessica.

My body allowed me to unclench my teeth and relax just a little bit.

"Hey Lucy," Jessica said as she proceeded to jog towards me and then sweep me up into a hug.

"How's it going?"

I couldn't help but answer honestly.

"Well, to be honest, I am actually feeling a bit nervous."

Jessica's face showed a brief look of concern before breaking back into a smile. She used her hand to simulate wiping away any concerns I might have and then gave me a wink.

"Don't worry Lucy, you're going to do great. Although I do apologize in advance for the mess."

Both her and the other girl burst out into laughter and I couldn't help but chuckle a little myself. I had thought about what exactly cleaning up at a place like this might be like and needless to say it was a little overwhelming. Having these girls make light of it helped relieved some of the tension that anticipation had brought.

"We try to keep it clean but some of those damn boys and their fantasies are downright disgusting."

Another laugh shared.

"By the way Lucy this is Melissa."

I reached out my hand to introduce myself to the unknown red-head. Just as before this girl also ignored my hand and swept me up into her arms. It was becoming very obvious to me that everyone who worked here was more like family than coworkers. As she squeezed me tightly I reveled in the intimate touch and couldn't help but smile. I knew that I was going to like it here.

Melissa eventually let go with a squeeze of my arm.

"Well I don't want to make you late for your first day," Melissa said also giving me a sly wink.

"Your name should be on one of the lockers in here."

She turned around scanning the ornate nameplates that adorned each storage cubby.

"There you are," Jessica said first as she found my name.

I followed her pointing finger and saw the beautiful etched golden name plate with my name on it. I was impressed. I had just accepted this job the other day. How the hell had they found time to do this already? Also, I had to admit that the treatment I was receiving so far was much classier than anything I had expected to receive as a housekeeper.

"We are going to go take showers. Did you need anything before we go," Jessica asked with earnest kind eyes?

"No...I don't think so," I responded in a somewhat timid voice.

"Well ok then. We'll see you later," Jessica said as the two of them turned and walked away towards the hidden shower section of the locker room. I pulled open the door to my locker and saw a beautiful neatly pressed uniform hanging on the hook.

The uniform was a bit different than the usual outfits I'd seen on modern housekeepers. This looked a bit more formal, and rather sexy at the same time. It is what I would picture some fancy french maid in an old romance movie wearing. This outfit was as much decoration as it was practical. Although, as I thought about the house, the girls, and everything else in it the entire operation was as much decoration as it was practical use.

I was just slipping on the last of the outfit when I heard the door to the locker room swing open again and someone else walked in. The footsteps drew closer until finally a pretty woman that looked to be in her early thirties rounded the corner and entered the changing area.

"Hi, you must be Lucy," the woman said as she approached.

"My name is Kelsey," she said extending the first handshake I had received since starting employment here.

"Looks like you are going to be with me today. Are you ready?"

I looked into the locker and didn't see anything else to put on. I looked down at the rather elaborate uniform and just prayed that I had put everything on correctly. To the best of my knowledge everything seemed to be in the right place and I hadn't missed any buttons or straps.

"Um...yes, I think so."

"Great," Kelsey responded. "Because we have a room ready for cleaning and this particular guy likes it dirty so it will be a good introduction for you."

My eyes went wide as the reality of the situation hit me. I knew, or at least thought I knew what they were doing behind those closed sound-proof doors and now I was about to go walk into the after-effects of it.

It's not that I was a prude by any means. Somehow the idea of cleaning up the sex of a man I had never even met and another woman's wetness took things to another level.

Kelsey turned and proceeded out of the dressing room and I quickly followed. We walked up a hidden staircase in the back of the property and then headed down the hall with absolutely nothing in our hands.

"Do we need to get some new sheets or cleaning supplies," I asked, breaking my own rule to keep my mouth shut.

"Nope. Every room is stocked with extra linens and all the cleaning supplies we could need. It makes everything a lot easier and classier if we don't have to wheel a cart down the hall everywhere we go. Mrs. Stark likes to keep a certain illusion going on.

We proceed past two more doors before finally stopping in front of a door with a gold name plate and the number 4 on it.

"Do you see this right here," Kelsey said to me as she pointed to a small light on the door. This light right here lets us know if the room is vacant. With the soundproofing that Mrs. Stark put in there is no point in knocking on the door because we would not be able to hear them answer.

If the light is white it indicates that the room is vacant and needs to be cleaned. If the light is red that means that it is occupied and when we are done with the room we will change the light to green which means that it is ready for use again.

The tiny light that she was pointing to was barely visible unless you knew exactly where to look. I doubted any of the clients had ever even noticed. The whole thing seemed like a pretty good system and I was glad that there was some idiot proof way to prevent me from walking in on some rich dude getting his ass spanked.

Kelsey turned the knob and opened the door. My nose knew immediately what that room had been used for.

# Chapter 10

We walked through the scent of lust and found a room that had been well used.

The sheets on the bed were all twisted into knots and multiple wet spots were visible across the bed.

"Well it looks like Gina had a good time."

Kelsey's words took me aback. I hadn't considered the possibility that the woman might actually enjoy the appointment as well. In my experience men had always been mostly concerned with their own orgasm and I figured that some rich guy shelling out a bunch of cash wouldn't much care if the girl was taken care of.

I had so many questions but forced myself to just keep my mouth shut and ears open. It was time to listen and learn, there would be plenty of time for questions later.

There were pops of bright color spread across the otherwise neutrally painted room. As I looked closer it became obvious that these splashes of color indicated a sex toy that had been used.

There were several vibrators, a ball gag, a whipping crop, and what looked to be a large black strap-on.

Obviously my look of astonishment was quite visible as I heard Kelsey start laughing at my expense.

"Yup, it looks like Richard was here."

I looked across the array of toys and back up at Kelsey.

"How do you know that," I asked?

"He has a real thing for that big black dildo. I think he is the only client that can take something that big."

My mouth fell open.

"You mean...that was used on...him?"

Kelsey laughed again. "Yup, although I am not sure whether it is pleasure or pain he is after with that one. Maybe both."

I tried to act normal but I was coming to realize that this job was going to be anything but normal. Kelsey walked over to the corner of the room and unlocked a doorknob that led into a closet. Inside the closet were the linens and cleaning supplies we would need.

Kelsey pulled out a box from the shelf and held it towards me.

"Here, these are disposable gloves. Although all the clients have to regularly test clean to come here I figured you might not want Gina and Richard's cum all over you hands.

She winked and I pulled out two clear disposable gloves. Kelsey then returned to the closet and pulled out a basket from the bottom shelf. The basket had a cover around it that hide anything inside from view. She took the basket and handed it to me.

"Here, use this to gather up all the toys. We have a special steam-cleaning machine downstairs that we use to sanitize all of these."

I took the basket and opened the top to find nothing inside. I then set about gathering the bright-colored toys and pilling them in. There had to be at least ten different gadgets that they had used during the course of their...activities. Lastly I picked up the huge black strap-on and put it on top of the rest of the toys.

My mind couldn't help but wander as I placed this huge silicon dick into the basket. I wondered what it would be like to use that on a guy. I started to imagine wearing it, sliding it into a man, feeling the power of thrusting into someone.

All of a sudden I noticed myself starting to get wet and flushed in embarrassment. I quickly shut the lid on the basket and set it aside.

"What should I do next," I asked Kelsey?

Go ahead and strip the bed. There a laundry chute behind the painting over there. The painting is on hinges so just pull it open and slid the soiled linens down the chute.

I looked over at the painting she had been pointing to and was amazed that anything could be hidden behind there. I did as I was told, stripping the bed down to the mattress and then taking the crumpled ball of sheets over to the hidden laundry chute. The painting swung open easily and I slid them down in one small push, making sure to be gentle with the painting as I moved it back into place.

Kelsey proceeded to lead me through the routine of cleaning the room and exactly where everything was located. They even had a checklist in the closet that I could use for reference to make sure that I didn't mis anything.

Then, once the room had been completely sanitized and the mood-lighting was back in place we turned the light to green and set off downstairs to deliver the rather sticky toys.

After everything was done Kelsey showed me to the housekeeping control room. It was a small office located not far from the kitchen area of the house. Inside the room there were two nice plush sofas, a bookshelf full of nice looking hardbacks, and in the corner of the room there was a desk.

Kelsey led me straight towards the desk and the computer that sat on top of it. There were two monitors set up. One looked to be linked to the rooms and showed the white, red, and green dots on the screen in a grid. I was surprised by the number of red dots currently on the screen. There was a whole lot of fucking going on upstairs and the fact that I could see that sitting on the screen in front of me made me laugh. I also realized that it was going to be a busy and rather sticky day.

# Chapter 11

The rest of the day was a bit of a blur as Kelsey and I moved from one room to the next. It was absolutely fascinating walking in after the fact and trying to figure out exactly what had happened. I felt almost like a detective in a crime procedural trying to figure out the mystery by looking through the clues that were left behind.

Some of the men seemed to have rather vanilla tastes while others required whips and chains. Throughout the day we ran into all the girls from room service and I was shocked by how relaxed and level-headed they all seemed.

In general the girls that were working here were all very pretty but few of them could be considered bombshells. However all of them walked with absolute confidence and were rarely found without a smile on their face.

I found myself wondering more and more about these girls. They all looked so...normal. How did they end up here? Were their stories like mine or was there some secret market for professionals like these?

After the last room for the day had finally been cleaned I changed back into the nice clothes I had worn on my drive here. At least now I knew the dress code. It was definitely a good idea to error on the side of too dressed up but I had definitely been a bit over-dressed. The way things were set up at the mansion the guests rarely saw the staff except when they were meant to be seen. There was a back-door to enter and hidden hallways throughout the facilities so that we could slip in and out undetected.

After getting dressed I decided to head up front and say goodbye to Bonnie. She had been really kind to me ever since I first arrived and I wanted to make sure I said thank you.

I pushed open the door of the locker room and proceeded down the hallway towards the front of the mansion. Just as I was approaching the turn at the end of the hall I felt my phone vibrate in my pocket.

"Stupid spam," I mumbled to no-one in particular. I was not receiving much in the way of phone calls or emails these days, however the spammers seemed to love me as I received endless messages from them.

I pulled the phone out of my pocket and looked down to confirm that it was something I could quickly delete.

THUMP!

"OH SHIT," I yelled out as I bounced off the rock hard surface and began to tumble backwards, my phone flying from my hands.

I had been looking down at my stupid screen when I struck whatever the hell it was and as I careened backwards my eyes looked up only to be met with the penetrating gaze of a living Greek adonis.

My center of gravity was completely gone now and I was going down hard. The man who had captured my stare quickly sprang into action leapt towards me like a tiger, snatching me up into his powerful arms before my head struck the hard surface of the floor.

We sat there motionless for several seconds just staring at one another.

...And then it hit me.

This was a guest. But it wasn't just any guest...it was him. The man who left me a $1000 tip on probably the worst day of my life. I was not supposed to interact with guests like this and I sure as hell wasn't supposed to run into them full-steam ahead while looking down at my phone like some teenager.

I felt mortified. Not only had I plowed into this man like a complete idiot but he now saw me working in a place like this. This amazing man who had done such a nice thing for me when I was his waitress now saw me as the housekeeper in a whore-house.

"Oh my god...I am so sorry," I blurted out as I attempted to scramble to my feet.

This man's arms held me in place and despite my scramble I was unable to move without his permission. He slowly picked me up and set me back down onto my feet. The man's strength was amazing and I could feel the rock hard muscles pushing through his suit.

"It's no problem Ms....?"

It took me a second to realize he was asking for my name.

"Oh, um, just call me Lucy."

"Well Lucy, it is a pleasure to see you again," he said as his eyes continued to be locked onto mine.

"My name is Adam," he said extending his hand to me.

I shook it and then quickly tried to extract myself from the situation. I had a good first day and I didn't want to ruin it now by messing with the guest's experience.

"Good to meet you Adam. Sorry but I am running late. Have a good stay."

With those parting words I quickly ran back down the hall from which I had just come and exited out the back. It was time to go home and collect myself before starting another shift tomorrow. I just hoped that no-one else saw my bonehead move and that Adam would check out before tomorrow so that I never had to see him again.

I couldn't believe that I just ran away without thanking him for the money. What a horrible thing to do. I was just so confused in the moment, I hadn't known what to say or how to respond.

The more I thought about it now the more I wished I had said something. He at the very least deserved a thank-you and instead I had run-off like some ungrateful bitch.

"Oh well," I thought. Hopefully he would be gone and I could do my best to put the whole incident out of my mind. I did vow to myself that if I ever ran into him again I would not let my nerves or my pride get the better of me. Next time I would thank him, that gorgeous deliciously sexy man that saved me in my hour of need.

# Chapter 12

"Fuck, I'm tired," I mumbled to myself as the alarm clock rang. Thank god I had set it before falling asleep last night.

With the hours of my new job typically starting late I normally didn't require an alarm to get up. However, last night I had one hell of a time trying to fall asleep. Every time I closed my eyes all I could see was him.

That chiseled jaw with just a hint of whiskers outlining his gorgeous face. His rock hard body that I had felt while it was pressed up against my own. Last night Adam had saved me over and over, sweeping me up into his arms before I hit the floor.

This man had me all hot and bothered inside and I realized that it had actually been a long time since I felt the strength of a man holding me. If I was being honest, mister guitar playing dick-head was always a bit scrawny and never really held me like that. The truth was that I didn't know if I had ever been held the way that Adam had cradled me in his arms.

Over and over I tried to shake him from my mind but the fight was useless. Eventually, as the clock continued to tick, I realized that more drastic measures were needed. That is when I closed my eyes one final time and let my fingers travel down my stomach towards the heat that had built between my legs.

An unexpected bolt of pleasure shot up through my body at the first gentle touch of my finger and I realized that I was a little more primed than I had expected.

One finger started to swirl around the tingling bundle of nerves between my legs as my other hand reached for the hardened nipples of my breasts.

"Mmm..."

My body was already ahead of my mind and I knew that this would not take long.

I increased the pressure against my wetness slightly while gradually increasing the speed of my fingers flick.

Images of Adam holding me in his arms filled my fantasies although this time he was not setting me back onto my feet. Instead, he gently laid me down on the floor and pressed his lips against mine.

"Ohhh..."

His kiss was just as amazing as the rest of him and I melted in his hands.

"Mmm....fuck..."

I was getting close. My body shook the bed as my fingers furiously worked to pull the orgasm from my body.

Adam was inside me now, thrusting his huge hardened cock against my eager wet walls.

"Oh fuck...oh....oh..."

My fantasy was now filled with images of my naked skin pressed against his. Our sweaty, slippery bodies sliding against each other as I squeezed around his girth inside me.

Then...release.

The wetness poured over my hand and I bit my lip. I could feel the bedsheet beneath me become damp and was shocked by what this fantasy man had done to me.

Exhausted, never opening my eyes, I rolled off of the wet-spot "we" had created and rolled over into a blissful slumber.

# Chapter 13

I headed back into work the next day with the radio blasting all the way there. My head was still swimming with confusing thoughts and the best way to drown them out was to turn the radio dial to ten.

When I did finally arrive I took a moment to steady myself and shake off the events from the day before. Today was a new day and I was going to show Kelsey and Mrs. Stark that they were right to hire me and that I was not afraid of working hard.

Feeling pumped up I exited the car and headed into the mansion. I entered through the backdoor and didn't see anyone until I pushed open the door to the locker room.

"Hey Lucy," Kelsey said as she saw me enter. "Mrs. Stark is looking for you. I will go ahead and get started on the rooms and you can just catch up after you see her."

Fear. Paralyzing fear. My feet felt as though they were encased in blocks of concrete. What did Mrs. Stark want? Did Adam say something to her? Was he pissed at me for not thanking him? Oh god no, I couldn't afford to lose this job.

Part of me just wanted to run. I wasn't sure what this was going to be about but I just knew it was going to be bad. Why wouldn't it be? With the shit-show that is my life of course I would lose the perfect job just days after getting it. I was officially fucking cursed.

I had now been standing awkwardly in one place for too long and Kelsey began to look at me strangely.

"Everything ok Lucy," she asked?

"Um...yes...sorry," were all the words I could muster before reddening from embarrassment and turning to face the music.

The walk to Mrs. Stark's office seemed long and I couldn't help but ponder what I would do next. I had already seen that there were not many jobs for someone like me out there and I didn't have anyone left to lean on. I was officially and completely fucked.

I arrived at the door and it took almost a full minute for me to gather the courage to knock. Finally, I was able to coordinate my muscles enough for two softs raps on the door.

"Come in," said the disembodied voice behind the door.

Well, this was it. It was time to go lose the best job I had ever had. Now I was just pissed at myself for being hopeful in the first place.

# Chapter 14

I pushed the door open slowly and entered the room to see a serious looking Mrs. Stark sitting behind the desk.

"Come in and sit down Lucy," she said in an ominously serious tone. "I have something I want to talk to you about."

"Fuck, fuck, fuck," the words echoed inside my head with every step.

I made my way over to the chair and sat down. Mrs. Stark brought her hands together in what appeared to be a moment of contemplation.

"Lucy, I have a situation here that I have never had before."

Shit, was I the first employee to ever get a complaint? That thought made the entire thing worse. I hoped that she would get this over with quickly.

"We have a guest staying with us name Mr. Palmer."

Was that Adam's last name? I had no idea.

"...And well, he has a rather unusual request."

Request? What was this about? Was it his request that I be fired...or was it something else.

"Mr. Palmer said that he ran into you yesterday and, well, he said that he was quite taken with you."

My heart skipped a beat.

"He personally came to speak with me and request you for his room service this evening."

My breathing stopped.

"I explained to him that you were not part of the room service staff and that you were not available for such a request."

My heart sunk a little as the fantasies from last night flashed through my mind.

"However, he was fairly persistent and wouldn't let the matter go. He seems fairly taken with you and has offered to pay twice the going rate if you will agree to be with him tonight."

I was now completely frozen in my seat. My skin began to sweat as my heart began to race. A tornado of emotions tore through me and I honestly wasn't sure what to say or what to think.

"Normally I would take care of these matters but in this case I felt it was only fair to bring it to you. I know that this is not what you signed up for but Mr. Palmer is willing to pay the equivalent of twenties-times your average hourly rate. It didn't feel right for me to make that kind of decision for you."

HOLY SHIT! Did she just say twenty-times my normal pay? All to be with one of the most beautiful men I had ever seen.

"So Lucy, I would actually like you to take a little time and think about it. I am going to go make the rounds to give you some privacy. When I return you can let me know your answer and please know that there is absolute no obligation to do this. If you say no I will take care of it and you will never have to interact with Mr. Palmer again."

Mrs. Stark rose from her chair and walked over to me. Her hand rested on my shoulder and she gave it a good squeeze before letting go and walking out of the room. I heard the door click closed behind me and then I was left all alone with nothing but my thoughts.

"HOLY SHIT," the words echoed through my brain again. Was this really happening? The whole thing seemed like an elaborate and totally implausible dream. I mean come on, how could this be real?

I get fired and some random good looking guy leaves me a huge tip in sympathy. Then I accept this crazy new job in a secretive high-end brothel and just as I start the job I run into that same stranger in the hallway. All of this only to be followed up with that same stranger propositioning me to sleep with him for a crazy sum of money that I could never have dreamed of earning.

What the fuck was going on here?

I sat in the quiet room trying to settle my mind and think about things rationally. Did I really want to cross that line? Was I really willing to become a call-girl for the right amount of money?

The fact of the matter was that it didn't feel like becoming a call-girl. This was a guy that assuming his personality was anything like his looks I would have eagerly sleep with for free. What was so bad about making a little money while doing something I would enjoy doing anyways?

Then another thought occurred to me. What exactly was this guy into, and what exactly was he expecting me to do for so much money? I wasn't a prude by any means but looking at the after-effects of some of the rooms yesterday I wasn't sure that I was up for handling some of the kinks these guys were into.

What if Adam wanted something painful, twisted, or downright disgusting? Was the money enough to take that risk?

My mind wandered back to the fantasies of last night. Adam was definitely not twisted in any of those memories, at least not in a bad way. He was powerful and sexy, showing my body the kind of attention I had never received from any other man.

As I sat in the chair I could tell that just the idea of those dreams was making me wet again and I instinctively crossed my leg. The truth was that the idea of being with Adam excited me and I couldn't deny that. Why shouldn't I take him up on the offer?

In the end was this really any different than a man buying a fancy dinner, jewelry, or any other gift for a woman in hopes of getting in her pants? This just cut out the pretense. It was a pure exchange of money for a service.

Just as my mind was starting to accept the justifications I had come up with a twinge of doubt crept back in. This was different. If I crossed this line there would be no going back. I would officially be a woman that was willing to accept money for sex. Was I willing to be that girl?

The sound of the doorknob turning snapped me out of my trance and I turned to see Mrs. Stark reenter the room.

"So Lucy, have you made a decision?"

I took a long deep breath and then responded, "Yes. Tell Mr. Palmer that I accept his offer."

# Chapter 15

After my acceptance Mrs. Stark had given me the rest of the shift off to prepare. Preparation involved a long hot shower, a razor, and attempting to not throw up from the nerves which had completely taken control of my body.

Mrs. Stark filled me in on the specifics about being a room-service girl, even if it was just a one off. We went over the rules, the toys, and the panic button. She also took time to make sure I was comfortable and felt empowered before walking into that room. Mrs. Stark was incredibly caring and by the time I had left her office I more confident that I could actually pull this thing off.

The biggest challenge was changing my mindset and remembering that this was a job. It was natural to feel like a girl getting ready for a first date but that would just lead to a bad experience for both myself and the client. It was important to drop the normal games of courtship and to have open communication. I needed to set my own boundaries and to ask if he liked the way I was doing things.

One problem was that I had no idea what my boundaries were. I had always had rather vanilla sex and had never used ninety percent of the gadgets I had seen in those rooms. I had also been with only a few men and none of them had been kinky at all. I worried about what Adam would ask of me. I was scared that I would have to say no to him, or even worse, that I might not have the skill to do what he asked.

For all I knew I might be terrible at sex. Up until now it had mostly required me just lying on my back and letting someone else just stick it in me. Now that I knew how much the girls were making here I imagined that the clientele had a different expectation of what sex looked like. I couldn't imagine shelling out that much money for anything and the thought of what that was supposed to buy terrified me.

At the same time, the thought of my impending appointment with Adam kept me permanently moist. This was a man that I would have chased after if I had thought I had any chance and now he was paying to be with me. I hoped that even a fraction of my fantasies may be accurate. The thought of his naked chiseled body pressed against mine made me tremble. Imagined visions of his huge hard throbbing cock in my hands was intoxicating. Oh god how I hoped that this went well and that he didn't ask anything of me that I couldn't provide.

For the amount of money he was paying me I really wanted to make him happy.

The time quickly flew by and now the clock read fifteen minutes until nine. It was time for me to head to the room. The waiting was over. It took all of my self control to keep from vomiting all over the changing room.

Jessica had joined me in the locker room for that last hour of my wait and had been very comforting. She was my biggest cheerleader and with a chuckle in her voice had presented me with an outfit for the night.

"Since this guy seems to have a thing for housekeepers, I think you should wear this," Jessica had said as she handed me over a skimpy french maid outfit that looked like it was straight out of a porno.

We both laughed hysterically for a long time before I finally slipped into the tight fitting get-up and looked in the mirror. Although the outfit was ridiculous I couldn't help but actually feel a little proud. I looked damn sexy in this stupid outfit and it made me see myself in a way I never had before.

"DAMN GIRL," Jessica said in a very theatrical tone. "You looking fucking hot."

I couldn't help but blush at her words. I didn't brush them off or act self-deprecating. I did look hot and for the first time in my life I actually felt hot.

"Ok Lucy, you got this," I said to myself as I took one last look at the clock, hugged Jessica, and set off for room six.

# Chapter 16

The room was warm and dimly lit when I entered. There was the scent of lavender in the air and several candles burning on one of the shelves. There was a note on the bed and I walked over to see what it said.

* * *

_Lucy,_

_You got this you sexy bitch. Remember that you are in charge. Relax, have fun, and just think about all the fun ways you are going to spend this guys money when your done!_

_\- The Room Service Staff_

* * *

I couldn't help but tear up as I folded the note and slipped it into the pocket of the robe I was wearing. These girls were amazing.

After wiping my eyes and gathering myself I slipped off the robe and put it over the back of the over-stuffed chair in the corner. I then made my way back to the bed and tried to find a sexy pose to lay in while I waited for him to arrive.

Lying down in a sexy way proved to be harder than I thought and I continued to roll back and forth, feeling ridiculous with every new position.

"Come on Lucy, get it together," I mumbled as continued to struggle with the simple job of lying down.

Eventually I gave up and sat up against the headboard with a pillow behind my back. My nerves were starting to get the better of me again. How the hell was I going to do this if I couldn't even figure out how to pose in a sexy way?

Nerves quickly turned into panic and my breathing quickened. I could feel my heart pounding against my chest and I was starting to feel light headed.

It was during the height of my nervous breakdown that I heard the metallic sound of the doorknob turning and suddenly I forgot how to breathe.

He was here.

# Chapter 17

The door slowly opened and Adam emerged from behind it. He was dressed just as specularly as he had been every other time I had seen him.

He proceeded to enter the room and shut the door behind him. He then stood in place, staring at my exposed sexy maid form sitting on the bed without saying a word. I had never felt so self-conscious in my whole life and it took every ounce of self-control I had not to dive under the sheets for cover or to run out of the room and hide.

Adam's eyes traced my body from head to toe and back up again until his eyes locked on mine.

"Hello Lucy. Thank you for agreeing to see me this evening."

I wasn't sure exactly how to respond. _Your welcome_ didn't seem right but I couldn't think of anything better to say and so I sat there silent, trying to look like the sexy "call-girl" he had ordered.

Adam removed his suit jacket and tie, setting them down on the same chair that held my robe as my pulse began to quicken. He then unbuttoned the top two buttons on his crisp white dress shirt and now I began to feel that wetness building between my legs again.

My body trembled uncontrollably as I worked hard to maintain some sense of composure.

Adam walked towards me.

Oh my god. This was it. It was going to happen.

Three steps away, then two, then one. Adam stopped at the end of the bed, never taking his eyes off mine. He sat down on the end of the bed as I started to move towards him.

He held up his hand to stop me.

"You look very beautiful in that outfit Lucy. I appreciate you putting that on for me."

My skin flushed.

"Now, I would like to watch you remove it."

I didn't speak, but following his instructions I slowly stood up from the bed, positioning myself in front of him. Then, like a baby deer first learning to use it's legs, I flailed around trying to figure out the sexiest way to remove this tight fitting maids outfit.

"Come on Lucy, you got this," I said to myself inside my head as I slowed down my amateur efforts and focused on taking off one piece at a time.

Adam's face never changed expressions as I rolled down my tights and removed the rest of my sexy little costume. His eyes had an intensity to them and although I couldn't tell exactly what he was thinking, it was clear that I had his full attention.

"Now I want you to lie down on the bed," he commanded me.

I did as I was told and lowered my now naked form back onto the softness of the bedsheet. I waited for Adam to approach me but he did not move.

"Now I would like you to show me how you like to be touched."

Wait, what was he asking me to do? I sat there for a moment trying to process the request, wondering if he literally wanted a tutorial on how to touch my body before I realized I was being a complete idiot.

He wanted me to "touch" myself while he watched.

With a deep breath my hands rose from the bed and just like the night before traveled across my skin, first touching my breasts before traveling to the freshly trimmed mound between my legs. It didn't take long for the same fantasies to come rushing forth and I instinctively closed my eyes.

The fingers on my left hand traced the curves of my chest, stopping occasionally to pull at my now rock hard nipples. The fingers on my right hand slipped in and out of my wetness, alternating between circles and pulls against my clit.

My body surged with adrenaline as my eyes briefly opened and I watched Adam watching me. The feeling of being seen, especially by him, was thrilling and intoxicating. My eyes closed again as my fantasies became more vivid and much more explicit.

"Mmm...," I couldn't help but moan as my excitement built.

I kept waiting for him to stop me, or to join me. The more I built towards an orgasm the more I wanted to be touched by him. Why was he just sitting there?

"Ohhh..." the sounds involuntarily rolled across my lips. This orgasm was building much faster than the one had last night

My eyes flickered open as the pressure of pleasure built inside me. Adam hadn't moved. He sat, staring intensely.

"Oh Adam," I cried out as the wetness between my legs started to gush forward against my tired hand.

My movements tightened and now my middle finger rested firmly against the swollen bulge of my clit.

Small circles. Faster. Faster.

"OH ADAM," I cried out at the top of my lungs as the floodwaters burst through the damn and I came forcefully against my fingers.

My body trembled, my eyes slid shut again and I slowed my movements, drawing out the last of the self-induced orgasm.

When my fingers finally came to an exhausted rest, my mind began to consider the man sitting at the end of the bed and the nerves came rushing back in. I was afraid to open my eyes. I just laid there, naked, waiting for the man to take what he had paid for.

Instead,I felt a release of pressure from the mattress as Adam stood up. I opened my eyes to find Adam walking over to the chair to retrieve his suit jacket.

What? What was he doing? Had I done something wrong?

My nerves were now in complete control as I worried about him walking out of the room to complain.

"Um...where...where are you going," I asked timidly?

Adam flashed me a smile and then walked back over to the bed. He leaned over my flushed exposed body and gently kissed my forehead.

"Lucy, I know that you are not a room service girl. I am not going to make you do anything more to earn the money."

I was confused.

"The truth was that when I saw you at that restaurant...well there was just something about you."

Adam trailed off in thought as he stood back and looked me over again from head to toe.

"I was attracted to you instantly and after I left the restaurant that day I couldn't get you out of my mind. That is usually not a problem I have but there was just something about you."

His eyes were now resting on my still exposed wet mound.

"So when I saw you here I couldn't help but take advantage of the opportunity. I hope that you are not mad at me. I just wanted this image in my head so that when I go home my fantasies can be much more...accurate."

My skin flushed even more which I was surprised was possible.

"Lucy, you are something special. I hope that the money from this night will help you find your happiness."

He started to put his arm in the sleeve of his jacket when the words came rushing out of my mouth.

"Wait...Adam...don't."

I felt intoxicated by the moment and by the emotions that this man elicited from me.

"Don't go," I said as Adam looked at me confused. He stopped putting on the jacket and turned towards me.

"What if...what if I want you to do it?"

Adam's eyebrow lifted. "Do what Lucy? What do you want me to do?"

My breathing quickened and my heart started to pound against the wall of my bare chest.

"Anything you want to," I said as I spread my legs and invited him inside me.

# Chapter 18

"Are you sure?"

Adam's face was hopeful but cautious.

"Yes, I am sure."

Finally convinced that he was not taking advantage of me, Adam proceeded to put his suit jacket back onto the chair and then began to remove the rest of his clothing.

First to come off was his shirt and I couldn't help but gasp at just how well defined his gorgeous chest and abs were. The man must have been some sort of athlete because there was no fat to hide his chiseled sculpted form.

After quickly kicking off his shoes and socks, he slowly undid his belt. I thought I could see a bulge pressing against the fabric of his pants and as soon as his waistband began to fall towards the floor my suspicions were confirmed. His excitement was obvious, and huge!

My lips moistened as I imagined them around his girth. He continued to remove the last of the fabric covering him as I began to crawl out of my skin in excitement. Finally, I could not take it anymore.

I leapt from the bed and crossed the distance between us in the blink of an eye. My hand wrapped around his hardened shaft as his lips came in to meet mine.

I pulled at his length as our tongues met and danced around each others. Fuck he was a good kisser.

He wrapped his arms around me as my body melted into his powerful grip. I could feel his flexed muscles pressing against my skin and I knew that there was absolutely nowhere I would rather be at this moment.

After several minutes of drowning in his kiss I pulled away and worked my lips down his neck and chest.

Adam relaxed his grip.

My mouth continued down his stomach before joining my hand around his well-endowed erection. I licked my lips in anticipation as I stared at his huge beautiful dick. The light reflected off it's tip as the gleam of cum showed his excitement.

I moved towards him, meeting his body first with my tongue. I traced his length, circling over the tip to grab a taste of his salty excitement.

"Oh Lucy," Adam moaned as I figured out exactly where his points of pleasure laid.

My own excitement got the better of me and I couldn't continue the teasing any longer. I opened my mouth, pulled him inside of me, and pressed my tongue against the base of his cock as I slid it as far down my throat as I could take.

"OH FUCK LUCY," Adam's words of encouragement were now getting much louder.

I fell into a rhythm around his throbbing erection as I worked him in and out of my warm mouth.

The salty taste increased and I could tell that he was not going to last long.

Just as that thought was running through my head I felt Adam pull away from me. I looked up to make sure everything was ok.

"Fuck Lucy, you are going to make me explode and I am definitely not done with you yet."

Just as the last of the words crossed his lips Adam pulled me up into his arms, cradling my weight as though it was no more than a feather's.

He walked me over to the bed and gently laid me down on the mattress. Adam followed, his mouth wasting no time in returning the favor.

His tongue met my still sensitive clit and I couldn't help but yelp. Adam was gentle as he slowly worked my sensitive folds in erotic ecstasy.

His hands wander up and down my body, circling my hardened nipples and caressing each curve of my naked form.

"Oh Adam," I moaned as he expertly fanned the flames of excitement in my body.

"Mmm..." my wetness increased as orgasmic feelings began to refill my brain.

I reached down and ran my fingers through his hair, still not entirely believing what was happening.

His tongue flicked and swirled around the heat between my legs and I knew that, like him, I wouldn't be able to last long.

My hands now grabbed his hair into a fist and I pulled his magical tongue away from my bucking hips.

"I want you inside me. Please," I begged as I looked at him with wanting eyes.

Adam, with hormones also raging out of control, quickly slid up my perspiring skin until his lips met mine and I could feel the huge swollen tip of his cock pushing against my tingling entrance.

My nails dug into his back as I waited impatiently for his penetration.

One...two...three...the seconds seemed to take forever until finally Adam slowly thrust forwards and my wet lips parted to allow him inside.

His thickness pressed against the walls of my secret passage and I just about came all over him. I tried so hard to focus on something, anything to help me last. I wanted to stay here, right in this moment forever.

Adam slid his hips back and then thrust back into me, deeper this time.

"Oh Adam...OH MY GOD!"

I couldn't contain myself.

Adam's thrusting slowly picked up speed as he continued to bury himself deep inside me.

His lips wrapped around mine and his kissed sealed it. I was going to come and there would be no stopping it.

"Oh Adam...oh my god...oh fuck...oh...oh...OH FUCK!"

My walls tightened around him and he continued his steady motion pulling more come with every thrust.

Adam didn't stop even when my orgasm finally did. Instead, as he continued his efforts I found my body quickly rising to the challenge.

I was exhausted, but a third orgasm was not going to be denied. Adam felt too good inside me. If he never stopped, my body seemed as if it was ready to continue indefinitely.

"OH MY GOD. Adam, I am going to come again."

This time Adam seemed ready as well. His pace quickened as every muscle in his body flexed. I wasn't sure who would reach the finish line first but there was little doubt that we would both be there soon.

"Oh Lucy..."

"Adam..."

"Oh..."

"Oh my god..."

The words devolved into grunts and moans as he now pounded away at my slippery passage. Then, just as I was about to come I felt Adam's heat explode inside me.

His hot come was like a trigger. My walls closed around him and a surge of warm wetness poured out of me all over his penetrated shaft.

We both held our final positions until the last twitch of orgasmic pleasure had been released. Then, and only then did he withdraw himself from me with a look of worry on his face.

"Oh my god. I forgot to put on a condom. Lucy, I am so sorry. I...I..."

The look of concern only made me love this mysterious rich man more.

"It's ok, I'm on birth control unless there is something else you need to tell me about," I said with a sly smile on my face and a sassy tone.

Adam looked slightly relieved at my humor but I could tell he was still concerned.

"Seriously Adam, it's ok. Too be honest, I wanted to feel you come inside me."

I reached up and grabbed his face, pulling him in for a soft gentle kiss.

I wasn't sure exactly what the hell was going to happen when Adam got up from this bed and I didn't want to know. I was happy right here, I was happy with him.

I had no idea if I was a room service girl or not. What I did know is that I was Adam's room service girl and I wasn't ready to be done servicing him quite yet.

I pulled away from the kiss and grabbed his shoulders. With a surge of sexual adrenaline I flipped him over onto his back and took control.

* * *

_It was time for me to let out my inner room-service girl and make sure that Adam got his money's worth!_

* * *

Continue the series with **Adam's Request (Good Girls Gone Bad Volume 2).** Otherwise continue to the next page to read the bonus story **Crave Part One.**

* * *

**To stay up to date on the latest releases you can sign up to receive my newsletter:**

**Mindy Wilde Mailing List**

* * *

**Connect with me on:**

**www.facebook.com/mindywilderomance**

**twitter.com/mindywilde**

# Crave Part One

"Holy shit" the words echoed through my mind as I contemplated the situation I was now in.

"I can't believe that I let her talk me into this."

Marci had been rather insistent and as usual I caved to her persistence. She was always a little more adventurous than I was which had led to some rather crazy nights well outside my comfort zone. Although I had to admit, this was different. I was curious.

It had been quite some time since I had felt the touch of a man and my body ached for a little attention. The last string of "boys" I had been with were much more into themselves and paid little attention to my wants. There was that one guy...Eric...but that was so long ago now.

The building I had entered only ten minutes ago was nondescript and could have housed just about any business. But this was not just any business. This...service...catered to a very specific clientele. Their customers had a very specific need and for the right price they were more then willing to fill it.

The idea of paying for sex felt icky and I tried not to think about it too much. Somehow, in my own head I had justified this as...something different. I wasn't hiring a male prostitute, I was paying for a needed service...an experience.

Well technically I wasn't paying for it, Marci was. It had been quite the fight when she first told me about the gift. There was no way that I was going to use it. But like usual, Marci wore me down and I eventually, reluctantly agreed. I wasn't sure if it was the glow that she had after trying it herself, the enthusiasm of her sales pitch, or my own sex-starved libido that finally won out but I was committed now and more then a little curious.

The interior of the building was filled with earth-tones and soft colors. It very much felt like entering a spa rather than a corporate office building. My shyness was quickly overtaken by the incredibly kind staff that whisked me away to a changing room. I slipped out of the ridiculously conservative clothes I was wearing and into the soft plush robe that had been provided.

I had subconsciously been afraid that everyone would take one look at me and know what deviant act I was up to so I had literally worn the most concealing outfit I owned. I had pulled my hair up in an attempt to look professional which seemed silly now. No one had looked at me twice during my travels to this appointment. I was just another typical woman heading off on another typical errand. What they didn't know was that my errand was anything but typical...

"Hello Ms. Johnson, my name is Erin and I will be your personal attendant today. Would you like to use the sauna or steam-room while you wait for your appointment?"

The experience was getting a bit surreal now. Was I here for a spa appointment? Was I really set to be ravaged by some professional lover thirty minutes from now? I could feel the butterflies building in my stomach.

"Um...yes...sure...a steam sounds nice. Oh and you can call me Dawn."

"Well ok then Dawn, follow me."

Erin guided me out of the changing room and down a short hallway. As we rounded the last corner a beautiful ornate room filled with soft music, plunge pools, and my steam-room came into view. This really was feeling more and more like a trip to the spa.

"The steam room is right over there" Erin said as she pointed to the glass door with beads of water dripping down it's interior.

"You can hang your robe on this hook right here and I will come back to get you when it's time. This is your private retreat and no one else will come in here until I return so please relax and enjoy. Is there anything I can get for you before I leave?"

I sat silent taking in my luxurious surroundings until finally muttering a timid response.

"Um...no...no, I'm good. Thank you."

Erin smiled, turned, and walked away briskly back down the hall. It took me a moment to get my bearings but then a thought snapped me back into reality.

"Fuck...I wonder how much Marci paid for this?"

I felt bad instantly. This must have cost her a fortune. I wasn't sure how I was going to return the favor but my head was starting to spin and I though it best to go sit down. Heading directly towards the steam-room I sat on the bench just outside the door and tried to collect myself.

When I felt sufficiently grounded again I took off the slippers and robe and now stood naked in the middle of what looked like a Roman Emperor's chamber. It felt naughty to be walking around so openly with every bit of my skin showing but Erin had told me the room was mine alone so the risk was modest.

When I opened the door to the steam-room my skin was greeted by a hot moist wonderfully scented blast of air. It had the scent of lavender and...eucalyptus I think? Whatever it was...it was heavenly.

I stepped into the fog and shut the door behind me. I could see there were dials to control the heat, steam, and scent but I decided not to adjust a thing. Everything was just perfect and I settled onto the bench and closed my eyes.

The next half hour slowed down and I almost forgot the reason I had come. It wasn't until some beads of sweat gathered into a large hot ball of water and rolled over my exposed nipple that the reality of my situation returned to my mind.

It was exciting and yet it was completely terrifying. I still wasn't sure if this was something I wanted or if it was just something I was doing to appease Marci.

My nipple hardened as the sensation of the sweat stimulated the nerve endings.

Whether my mind wanted this or not there was no doubt about what my body craved.

"Dawn, it is time for your appointment."

I had been so lost in my own dreamland that I hadn't heard Erin open the door. Instinctually my arms wrapped around my body trying to hide the excitement that was now so visibly showing. Erin just smiled and held open my robe.

I pushed my arms through the sleeves and she wrapped it softness around my moist skin.

"Do you want to rinse off first or are you ready to begin?"

I thought about it for a moment. Showering off my sweaty body was probably the right thing to do but I was afraid that if I did I would never have the nerve to come out. A fear was rising inside me and my mind started screaming to run away. If I didn't go now I might not go at all.

I took a deep breath, grabbing the lapels of my robe to steady myself, and then answered.

"I'm ready."

There was just a brief moment of silence and then Erin took charge.

"Ok then...follow me."

Erin led me out of the spa area and down a silent hallway. The lighting was dim and soft, setting a very specific mood. The walls were adorned with beautiful erotic artwork, like the kind you would find in the home of art appreciating millionaires.

I could now see the door where Erin was leading me. It was just a normal nondescript wooden door. I don't know why but I was surprised. I am not sure exactly what I was expecting but knowing what goes on behind this door I expected something more dramatic.

A few moments later we had arrived.

"Ok Dawn. It looks like you ordered the sensory depravation experience. That is a very popular choice for our first timers. I think you are really going to enjoy it."

I let out a small gasp as my body finally remembered to take a breath.

"There will be blindfold mask and a set of wireless earbuds on the bed inside. When you are ready just slip off you robe, get into bed, and put them on. Once you are lying down and ready your experience will begin. The most important thing to remember is to relax and enjoy it."

My heart was now beating out of my chest.

"If at any time you are uncomfortable with what is happening or want to stop just say the word "red". Have fun and I will be there to get you when you are done."

I tried desperately to steel my resolve as I grabbed the bronze doorknob. I did want this...I needed this.

After a deep breath in and a slow exhale I turned the knob, pushed open the door, and proceeded across the threshold.

The room was softly lit just like the hallway had been. I closed the door behind me and scanned the room to take in my surroundings. There was a large king size bed pushed up against the far wall. I was a bit surprised by just how plush and luxurious the linens appeared. A thick fluffy comforter covered the bed and at least ten pillows made for an inviting lounge.

The walls were not the sterile white I had expected and instead were a rich mocha color with more exotic artwork complimenting the colors of the room. I felt more like I was in someone's home rather than a brothel chamber.

There was an off white leather chair in the corner where I assumed I should lay my clothing. I had come here with a purpose and it was now or never.

"Come on Dawn...you can do this..."

I untied the white fabric belt from my robe and let it drape toward s the ground. The front of my robe slid open and my skin met the warm air of the room. Despite the warmth I could see goose-bumps forming on my arm. Adrenaline was surging through me and it took a concerted effort to keep my body under control.

After sliding the robe from my shoulders I laid it across the leather chair. My soft spa sandals followed and I proceeded to the bed as instructed.

On top of the comforter was the blackout mask and a pair of wireless earbuds unlike anything I had seen before. I grabbed them off the comforter and moved them to the table beside the bed.

When I pulled back the comforter I noticed the sheets had a slight sheen to them. My fingers caressed it's surface and the smoothness felt amazing.

"Those must be silk or something..." I said as I tried to identify the soft buttery fabric.

The decorative pillows were tossed aside as I slid my trembling naked body between the sheets. This was it, the thing I had been thinking about nonstop ever since Marci had talked me into it.

I began to worry that it wouldn't be good or that I would be too nervous to enjoy it. What about my body? I could definitely stand to lose some weight. What if he is disgusted by me?

My nerves were getting the better of me and my mind was now louder then ever telling me to run.

I reached over to the table beside the bed grabbing the mask and earbuds. I quickly slid the dark fabric over my head until my vision was nothing but blackness. I then moved to put in the wireless earbuds they had provided. The first slid in easily and I heard a faint static sound. As I pressed the second bud into place The sounds of the room went silent and the crackle of static was gone.

I couldn't hear anything. The hum of the lights, the ruffling of the sheets, the sounds of my own breath...they all disappeared.

Laying down between the sheets, I explored my new world, a world without sight and sound. It was fascinating, the longer I laid in my oblivion the more my other senses came to life. The nerve endings of my skin explored the intricacies of each and every linen fiber while my mouth tasted the lavender scented air.

My mind was lost in a world of exploration as I probed the darkness. It was strange just how much the removal of ambient noise affected me. My own respirations were not something that I had ever actively listened to before but now that they were gone their absence was profoundly noticed.

The air moved across my exposed face...or I think it did. Was he in the room with me now? I had forgotten why I was here but feeling of a breeze on my cheek snapped my mind back into focus.

I felt a surge of adrenaline rush through my body and I fought against the compulsion to pull back the mask. It felt strange and scary to be watched...if I was being watched. Although I wasn't positive he was in the room I swore that I could feel his eyes penetrating my cloak of darkness.

My instinct was to grab the sheets and hold them tightly over me but my wanton body and neglected sex drive forcibly kept my hands at my side. I was frightened and yet my body was becoming more stimulated by the minute. I could feel my cheeks flushing and my nipples harden. Although I could not hear them there was no doubt that my breaths was quickening.

What was he waiting for? Had I really felt that breeze? Oh my god I think I am losing my mind. Maybe it was just...

A finger... then two, gently settled against the skin of my cheek and brushed a stray strand of hair behind my ear. My body jolted in response to his unexpected touch.

I could smell him now. A distinctly manly smell. I wasn't sure how to respond. Was I supposed to touch him back? Should I moan to express my approval of his arrival? I felt so awkward and paralyzed with indecision. With no idea what to do I just lay there with my arms at my side, waiting for the instructive touch of the mysterious man in the room.

After stroking my face softly for several minutes his hand cupped my cheek and I felt him lean in for a kiss. My lips instinctually puckered and were met with a moist minty softness that sent tingles down my spine. His lips were were full and very pleasurable to the touch.

He pressed into my mouth softly, pulling away after only a few seconds. I gasp. He then began to wrap his mouth around each of my lips individually, playfully biting them as he worked his way around my open panting mouth.

"Oh fuck" the words rang out inside my head as I reveled in the amazing sensation of his attention.

His hand journeyed from my cheek down to my neck and he let his fingers dance along the hem of my pulled up sheets. I wasn't nervous anymore. I desperately hoped and waited for him to grab the silky linens and pull them free. Every square inch of my body was now competing, screaming out for his attention.

My man of mystery ignored my silent pleas but instead removed his lips from mine and used them to slowly travel my skin down to the sides of my neck, skillfully teasing me, knowing that I wanted more.

Being touched without being able to see or hear was a completely foreign sensation. It felt strange to moan and have no feedback, to lick my lips and not be able to see the reaction in my lovers eyes. The touch was like nothing I had every experienced before. I could feel the grooves of his fingerprints and I could the sense the firing of individual nerve bundles beneath my skin with every new area that he touched.

"Oh my god...yes" I knew the words had escaped from my lips but I could not hear them.

It was an involuntary response as he finally grabbed the hem of my top sheet and began to pull it down towards the end of the bed.

His lips traveled with the sheet and soon my breast were exposed to the warm lavender scented air. He stopped, not moving the sheet any further. The hem now rested on my abdomen as my chest heaved upwards, hoping to find his touch.

I did not have to wait long as I felt the warmth of his lips make contact with the underside of my left chest. I felt his tongue swirl against my skin, just painfully out of reach of my harden nipple which was now crying for attention.

He continued to swirl and tease, moving his mouth around the perimeter of where he knew I wanted it to be. His hand moved up and made contact with my other breast, working it in the same playful manner as his mouth, making sure never to give me what I wanted.

I pushed up into him, goading, pleading with him to make me wait no longer. Forgetting my awkwardness I now moved my hands from the bed and reached for the area of the darkness where I assumed his body would be. My fingers made contact. It felt like...his back...his very muscular, flexed back.

With some reference my mind now raced to paint a picture in my head of what my mysterious lover looked like. Just from the little bit that I could feel he was obviously well built and took care of his body. His hair brushed against my arms and I could feel that it was not too short but not too long. I pulled every image of hot men that I keep stored in the recesses of my mind, creating a composite of what I hoped he might look like.

"OH FUCK!"

I dug my nails into his back as his lips and fingers finally wrapped around the rock hard bulges in the center of my chest. He tugged, bit, and swirled my body into a frenzy. I knew that I was moaning and panting heavily but with no sensation of sound, all I could focus on was the sensations of his touch.

"Oh my god that feels so good" I tried to verbalize, rewarding the behavior I hoped would continue.

I had no idea how hard it was to talk when you can't hear the sound of your own voice. I started worrying that I might sound stupid, that I might...

"Oh my god."

His hand traveled underneath the sheets, down my abdomen, and over my pulsing wet mound. All of my insecurities were forgotten as his fingers slid down the inside of my thigh my muscles tighten and I forgot to breathe. However, just as quickly as he had probed beneath the sheets his hand was gone and settled back on my chest.

My toes curled hard against the bed, reeling from the sudden stimulation. As much as I was enjoying his attention up top I now could think of nothing else but my wanting his attention down below. Luckily I didn't have to wait long as his lips continued their journey and I braced for his skillful tongue to arrive at my now dripping wet pussy.

The sheets were removed slowly from my abdomen and then my hips. His lips traveled closer and closer until I could almost feel his hot breath against my wet lips.

Then...he stopped.

"No...no...no" I desperately pleaded inside my own head.

"Why was he stopping? Was it over?"

But my worries were soon laid to rest. My mysterious suitor rose from the bed and continued pulling my covers down until finally even my toes were free and I lay completely naked and exposed. My self-conscious mind again started to panic about the extra pounds I carried and what this man might think of me but the heat between my legs was more powerful and pushed down these less erotic thoughts.

His hands wrapped around my feet and began to massage the sensitive muscles that had walked me into this room only minutes before. My body began to fight against itself wanting to both relax into his grip and wrap itself tightly around chiseled form.

Soon a new sensation joined his fingers as I felt the warm moist pressure of his lips against the inside of my leg.

"Oh hell yes" I thought as I made the assumption on where those lips might be heading.

Slowly and steadily his attentive mouth traveled up the inside of my legs as his hands helped him explore the newly exposed flesh. I could feel my hips involuntarily grinding against the bed as I impatiently awaited his tongue.

Closer...closer...

His breath now gathered against the moisture of my swollen clit. His tongue danced around, only briefly flicking against my sensitive lips.

"Fuck!"

The frustration was almost unbearable.

Teasing...flicking...hovering just out of reach.

I reached down and grabbed the hair on the back of his head. I flexed my muscles and tried desperately to force him to concede. But he held firm. He was strong and I was completely at his mercy.

Finally, my lover...my master, gave me the sweet relief that I so desperately needed.

His tongue flicked rapidly against my already stimulated slit.

"Oh my god...oh fuck..."

The overwhelming sensation of a pending orgasm flooded my limbs. There would be little time to enjoy his tongue before my body spilled itself all over his mouth.

"Oh yes...oh fuck...please...please don't stop..."

He did as I asked and attacked my wanting lips with an eagerness unlike anything I had ever felt before.

"Oh my god...oh....oh....OH FUCK!"

Every muscle in my body tightened as endorphins flooded my veins. Although I could not hear my own pleasurable screams of relief I could feel the wetness explode from my mound all over my suitors tongue. He eagerly pulled my pleasure into his mouth making sure not to spill a drop.

My body, still in in the quiet dark abyss, reacted differently to this orgasm. I could almost see the waves of pleasure dancing behind the darkness of my mask. The entire experience drew out much longer then anything I had experience before. I was so focused on the novelty of these knew sensations I didn't notice when his weight shifted and he got ready to pounce.

His move was swift and determined as he slid his body up between my legs. I could feel his rock hard abs against the inside of my thighs as he paused.

One second, two seconds, three seconds...what was he doing...

Then it happened. I felt the massiveness of his well endowed cock push against the trembling wet lips between my leg and then enter my still pulsing passage.

"Oh my god" the words rolled off my tongue.

Now I knew what the pause was about. My professional must have been putting on a condom for me before sliding his girth against my sensitive walls and stirring the beginnings of another orgasm.

His penetration felt amazing and my body responded appropriately. With the way my body was responding to him it was hard to tell if the first orgasm had ever stopped or if this one was completely new. My head started to spin as the exhaustive pleasure of his efforts built on top of each other.

"Oh my god...fuck me..." my dirty mind began making itself known.

"Harder...harder..."

He responded to my request, thrusting his pleasurable rod into me with increasing intensity.

"Oh my god yes...harder...oh fuck..."

I was well past the point of no return now. As my body prepared for another cascade of tingling sensations I felt his muscles quickly tighten. He slowed, then held himself still, deeply penetrated inside me. What was he doing? What is..

Then I felt it. His cock began twitching and spasming inside me.

"Oh my god...did he just orgasm?"

I had never really considered reciprocating his efforts but the fact that he was so excited, so lustful for me that he couldn't hold back, made me feel unbelievably sexy and I once again dug my nails into his back.

His hips began to thrust again as his hard cock rubbed against my clit. Only moments away from my own twitching release I couldn't help but crack a beaming smile at the idea I made this professional uncontrollably cum.

Finally, I reached the precipice again and took an orgasmic leap into the darkness as my passage tightened around his shaft. With his cock still twitching, my tightness worked to draw out any remain pleasure from his cock while spilling my own around it.

Instinctually and without thought, I threw my arms up around his neck and pulled myself into his embrace. He collapsed next to me and pulled my head onto his chest.

I laid cradled in his arms, feeling the pleasure chemicals drain and get reabsorbed into my body. Smelling his distinct smell and listening to the rapid beating of his heart through his chest, I forgot that he was paid to be there. I forgot that this was a service, bought for me by a friend. This felt like something more.

I am not sure how long we laid there together but my fantasy was soon interrupted as he kissed my forehead and moved to get up. A finger softly brushed against my ear and the ear bud was gently pulled away.

"I am going to leave now. Please take your time and lay here as long as you want. When you are ready you can remove the mask and get dressed. Erin will be waiting outside the door to take care of you."

I couldn't believe it was over. I couldn't believe that my lover was leaving me.

"Thank you Dawn. I really enjoyed my time with you."

The earbud was replaced and just like that my lover disappeared into the ether of my sensory deprivation. I continued to lay there, thinking about all that I had just experienced. This was unlike anything I expected. It was unlike anything I had experienced before.

Reluctantly, I pulled my mask off and exposed my eyes to the dimly lit room. The earbuds came out next and the hum of the world rushed back into my head. It was amazing to now notice all of the sounds I had never noticed before. I felt almost like I was experiencing the world through someone else's senses.

I slowly got up from the silky sheets and made my way to the chair which held my plush robe in the corner of the room. After taking a few more moments to collect myself I proceeded to the door and opened it to find a smiling Erin holding a glass of champagne and a rose.

"I hope you enjoyed your appointment. These are for you. Now let me take you back to the spa where you can relax until you are ready to go."

I spent a little time back in the steam room, sipping on my champagne. When I reached the bottom of the glass I knew it was time to go. Reluctantly I put my clothes on and returned to the "real life" that waited for me outside those walls.

"So..."

I smiled at her sheepishly.

"Come on...tell me everything!"

Marci and I were having dinner and she was desperate for details on what went on at my appointment.

"Well..." I wasn't sure what to say.

I knew that it was a professional service but it still felt intimate to me. It felt strange to talk about it with my friend, even though she is the one that had forced me to go.

"It was amazing" I conceded.

"It was...it was unlike anything I have ever experienced before."

Marci smiled, giddy to start hearing my gossip.

"There was just something about him...he..." I searched for the right words.

"To be honest, I don't know how to describe it."

She laughed at me and took a sip from her wine.

"So, do you think you will go back? You know that they have lot's of different men and many more services to choose from?"

I thought about her question for a while, sipping my wine as the idea of him danced around in my head.

"I think so...is that crazy? Am I some sort of sexual deviant?"

"No way Dawn! Hell, I will go back with you and we can try out some of their other...selection" she said with a wink.

"Actually...I know I haven't even seen him but...I really want the same guy again. There is just something about him. He brings out something inside of me...a want...a craving."

"Wow, listen to you" Marci said as I blushed in embarrassment.

As the sensation of his touch and the sensation of him inside of me returned to my mind I could only think of one thing to say.

"So Marci...what are these other services you were talking about?"

* * *

Continue the story - **Crave Part Two** or you can purchase the rest of the series at a discount with **Crave (Parts 1-3).**

* * *

**Find me at:**

www.mindywilde.com

www.facebook.com/mindywilderomance

twitter.com/mindywilde

* * *

**You can sign up for my monthly new release mailing lists:**

Mindy Wilde Mailing List

# From The Author

I hope you enjoyed **Room Service (Good Girls Gone Bad Volume 1)**. For all of my books you can visit my website www.mindywilde.com.

* * *

If you liked this story or any of my other titles please post a review when you are finished reading. I really appreciate the feedback and your comments help me plan future fantasies for your reading pleasure.

* * *

To stay up to date on the latest releases you can sign up to receive my newsletter:

Mindy Wilde Mailing List

* * *

**Connect with me on:**

www.mindywilde.com

www.facebook.com/mindywilderomance

twitter.com/mindywilde

instagram.com/mindywilderomance
