 
## Salvation:

## Something More than Just The

## The Forgiveness of

## Sins

### Formatting is fantastically Fun

### By Crosswell Goko

### Copyright 2014 Crosswell Goko

### Smashwords Edition

Thank you for downloading this eBook. Blessed are ye that shall share its message with as many people as possible and encourage them to get their own copies. It remains the copyright property of Peaceangel G Crosswells, and may not be redistributed for commercial or non-commercial purposes. Please encourage your friends to download their own copies from their favourite authorized retailer. Thank you for your cooperation and support in this great mission, even to bring honor and glory to God.

Unto you therefore an opportunity is come to choose between death and life. Be wise and make the right choice for verily I say unto you, because of this very message, the Lord's perfect will upon your life shall be fulfilled. So what is the Lord's will upon your life? Read this eBook to the later and find out!

## Dedications

''A man can receive nothing, except it be given him from heaven'' John 3vrs27. Many thanks therefore be unto God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, our Father also, who by the gifts of his Holy Spirit, which is the greatest blessing of them all, committed without measure into my hands this amazing book which encapsulates his divine wisdom, knowledge, riches and anecdotes of truth so that I may minister unto you, serving as your guide to the discovering and realisation of your rightful inheritance in Christ, even the abundant riches of his everlasting grace, love and kindness towards us who are called by his name. ''Abba Father, O righteous God of our salvation, thine O LORD is the kingdom, the power and the glory forever. With all that I am and all that I have serve I thee; I worship you, and I praise, and thank you, giving you all the glory and honour, with which thou honoured me in your presence before I came into this world, now and forevermore in Jesus Name. Amen

To all the following special people; Miss Rain and Paige Baker, Mr Thomas and Mrs Loveness Z Goko-my parents, Policemen of all nations, and Soldiers, and Marines, and Fire Fighters and those in the Red Cross, and the Hospitals, and all of you mighty angels who put your lives on the line to protect us and safeguard our freedoms and liberties; to save us, giving us many chances to another lease on life; and to our beloved Judges, you that execute righteous and just judgments, and you o lawyers that defend in earnest, the rights and freedoms of all peoples without partiality and favour, we salute your heroic efforts on behalf of all heavens and the whole Christian Community for standing as earth-real angels ever-present in all times of need.

To our honourable Presidents of nations and all public office bearers of the world, ye that betray not your trust but serve the peoples with great humility and dignity, seeking justice, peace, unity in diversity and the farewell of not only citizens of your nations but that of foreign minors also, we emulate you and love you dearly, thanking you with great humility for setting a good foundation of a future world in which all men live in love, harmony, unity, peace and with equal rights, walking arm in arm while doing the LORD'S work.

And to all other peoples of the world society, ye that we could not mention in particular for ye are many, including you that are overcome by the devil and partake in evil works, we consider you too. The good among you we love with joy in the Holy Spirit, and pride, and respect and more than admiration saying, keep shining the awesome flames of goodness in you; and to you that partake in evil deeds, we alienate you not because you are our brothers and sisters. We love you sincerely but with sorrow and pity and heavy hearts, hoping that you will realise sooner the devastating consequences of your actions, not only to us but to yourselves at large. We truly understand you have a desire to part with such unspeakable deeds but are overcome by the evil one, having been his slaves for quite a long time. Therefore we commend you all to the love and grace of God in Christ Jesus which surpasses all else and can save you to the uttermost if you call upon his name. Make the call now and you will be saved. The Lord Jesus has already died for you for he died for all creation, so he will definitely not delay if you call upon his name for unto people like you came he, that you might have life and have it to the fullest. John 10vrs10

##  Foreword

The concept of Salvation has for a long time been misunderstood, especially in light of our superseding faith, Christianity. Because of this misunderstanding, we have today among us two types of Christians. The first one is the ordinary religious Christian, who is trapped in constant struggles with the devil and is vulnerable to almost all kinds of negative circumstances in life and the other one is the super non-religious Christian, the new superman, born-again and superior to the devil and all his cohorts and carnal weapons. While still here, let it be understood from the onset that the purpose of this brief expose on these two different kinds of individuals in the Church is not meant to insult anyone or provoke division among the brethren but to help all such family members as may be struggling in trying to fully realise what it means to be a Christian and what nature of a glorious life and inheritance are they called to in Christ Jesus. Of fact, we who are many and of different categories are one in Christ Jesus, but that we may function effectively in unison in the body of the Lord and experience the glory of God in him in our lives, we need to know where we stand now and where ought we to go or in which direction should we grow spiritually. You see, just like there are various laws that govern the world of the natural men so that he can at any time fully realise who he is and live accordingly, even so in the spirit realm, there are divine principles that govern the life of believers that they may attain their divine destiny and live the real life that belongs to them and all these principles or codes are encapsulated in Christ Jesus. There is no other way around it. However, it is not enough to be a Christian, for I've heard quite often some among the brethren who say, 'I am a Christian but not that born again type'. Truly, you have every right to neglect the privilege to become born-again but you cannot do so and hope to fully experience the stupendous benefits of the Christian faith-a living relationship with God. The master and head of the Church himself Jesus said clearly that, ''..except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God''. John 3vrs3. That means being born of the spirit-having your human spirit recreated with the spirit of God. So unless you become like unto God through Christ Jesus, you can never fully experience the glory of God in your life for when you are born again, God pours his Spirit into you, even the Holy Ghost, who when he is in you and with you, guides you in the perfect will of God for your life, which is but living the triumphant life to which you are called in Christ Jesus; a life in which you exercise dominion over the devil and all negative circumstances of life; a life in which you know not only where you are headed but how you ought to get there and what to expect because you live and walk not by guessing and assumptions but by revelation, the wisdom of God in its entirety, as the Holy Ghost guides you. So as part of this foreword, let us therefore briefly examine these two individuals in the Church that you may, as we indicated earlier on, know where you stand and in which direction you should grow in your spiritual journey and fellowship with deity.

The first one, the ordinary religious Christian has an inferior understanding of the concept of salvation, attributing it only to mere forgiveness of sins while the other one, the born again Christian, possesses a superseding understanding which recognises the truth that salvation is but the receiving of life in a measure unlimited. Understanding of this foregone observation alone may help anyone who reads this book to realise why it is that some family members in the house of God-Church struggle in their lives more than people of the world while others live more pleasing and triumphant lives, abounding with peace, prosperity, love, protection, joy and happiness than men of the world. Of fact, Christianity is a faith that describes the eternal relationship between God and mankind, not as enemies but as friends, and family; not as master and slaves but as Father and sons and daughters. It is all about mankind participating in divinity. It is not a religion or a club of believers but a living relationship between men and God. Why then do we have two groups in the Church if the whole truth is this simple to grasp? You may wonder. The answer to your question may be found in the simple fact that Christianity, as we indicated earlier on, is all about God seeking and reconciling men unto himself in Christ Jesus and not counting their sins against them, while juxtaposing him as his enemies. Thus the religious ordinary Christian is the one who lacks this understanding and therefore spend much of his worshiping time seeking God and his glory, conducting himself as a slave while the non-religious one, the born again, which is the new superman of the world, born by the Spirit of God, simply acknowledge to be found and chosen by the grace of God in Christ Jesus, receive his glory and fellowship with God not as a slave but a son or daughter. Now, when you are a slave, it means you have not an inheritance kept for you by the master, so you have to struggle-labour to get along in life which inadvertently limit your perception of salvation to nothing but the forgiveness of sins because all what a slave know is the mercies of his or her master and not the love. But when you are a son or daughter, you are aware that not only does the father count you forgiven and loved but he has prepared an inheritance for you and in the case of our heavenly Father, not only did he forgave our sins and showed us love by dying for us, but has also bequeathed unto us all that he has, that means, his life and riches. Therefore we need not struggle to fare in life because all that the Father has belongs to us, which means the whole universe and all that is in it, because it all belongs to God. Understand this and you will never suffer again in life nor live an ordinary outdated Christian life, neither will you ever desire to be a religious Christian again. Jesus came to give mankind life without measure John10vrs10, not just to take away men's sins. He died that we might live; he gave up his honour that we might be honoured, he gave up his riches that we may have them and he certainly humbled himself before Satan at the cross that in his resurrection we might become superior to Satan, his cohorts of darkness-the powers, the principalities, the dominions and all authorities named in the heavenly places and in all the earth who causes all suffering of mankind Ephesians1vrs21. With this knowledge well grounded in you, you will never doubt one second why you need to become a born again Christian for in rebirth, all the limits imposed by all evil forces are broken. You will cast out demons, heal the sick and take up serpents and if you drink any deadly poison, it will not do you any harm! Mark 16vrs18.

In this light therefore can we begin the full description of what salvation means, and for this very purpose, that you may understand the concept of salvation and benefit richly thereof, have I written this book, ensuring the chapters and or topics are brief for quick grasping and to encourage your concentration. Verily, you will come across facts and truths that are fundamental to the Christian faith, where upon you may develop and establish a glorious life in your fellowship with God in Christ Jesus. Read and ponder on this material's revelations and it will bless you eternally. As you do your studying, make reference to your Bible, reading the scriptures yourself and the message of this book will enduringly enrich your life and help you attain your divine destiny of greatness as God planned it ahead of time. And I pray the Father God to open the eyes of your understanding that you may comprehend what a glorious life you are called to in Christ Jesus. Let him guide you to that inspiring moment where you will come across the revelation that will transform your life forever and lift you into his glorious riches in Christ, even the inheritance of the saints in light. Amen.

Chapter 1: Understanding Christianity.

We shall now turn our attention to the full description of the two types of believers we have in the Christian faith, which is the most beautiful, powerful and practical faith in the whole universe. But first, let us consider a brief expose on this wonderful faith that the non-Christian who read this book may understand who we are and what our faith is made of. Christianity is the most beautiful, powerful and practical faith there is and shall ever be in existence. Why? Because it is found on realistic and potent principles which have bequeathed without measure, life to all who have embraced it and partook of its abundant grace. Through this grace, they have become masters of their own destinies and captains of their own souls. They have taken hold of the ultimate key by which they, at will and at any given time, make life pay whatever price they may require on their own terms. The 'key' is ultimate because it opens the door that leads directly into the rest of Christ-a place or state of existence in which one's labours and struggles cease in life. It is a royal chamber wherein solutions of all life's problems are found. In it, one may find both riches of the purse and of the spirit. In it, one may find enduring love and everlasting friendship, and a way to constantly renew their soul and spirit so that they may fully achieve any of their life's greatest desires and finish their God purposed course of life. In it also, one may find riches of peace and harmony with all men and the riches of a compelling motive for one to perform a labour of love and share one's own blessings as the grand high way to embellishing and multiplying them. Above all, in it, one may find more than a reason to fellowship with deity and live in a state of gratitude, worship and honouring of God our Father and Creator of all things that are named now and forever. The greatest blessings of this awesome faith we call Christianity may be superbly described in this one word, salvation. Therein, one may find more than just compelling reasons to become a Christian, not just a Christian, but a born again Christian. There are many who call themselves Christians because they were converted into the faith, taking it for another nice religion among the so many in the world. Unfortunately, that misperception has short changed their capacity to fully experience the glory and fullness of God in Christianity. It is a tragedy that out of every hundred Christians, ninety of them still live in dire lack, sickness, infirmities, failure and poverty; a tragedy because many who teach the doctrine of this powerful and outrageously empowering faith have chosen not to speak the truth of the word in its simplicity but rather have chosen to twist it to fit their own perceptions and ways of life that in themselves fall short of manifesting the true fullness of God's grace to mankind in Christ Jesus. But the time has come and now is when men must be taught the gospel in truth as it is and in its simplicity as God gave it to mankind for a manual to live by and experience his fullness. Members of this fellowship, bound by love, which is the highest law in heaven and on earth, share everything in common and relate to each other as brethren; and the stupendous task that should be shouldered by every member of the fellowship is to take the good news and bring salvation to all creation. For this cause, many in this fellowship have relinquished their claims to all world pleasures and rights, having assurance of more excellent rights and pleasures at the right hand of God in Christ Jesus, now in this time and in eternity, Mark 10vrs29-30.

Truly, God is good and faithful and therefore proceed not from his mouth falsehood or deception, Isaiah 55vrs1. He spake of old to our great patriarch Abraham that he would establish his seed over the face of the earth and in prosperity, Genesis 13vrs14-16, a reason which must inspire you and every other believer to realise that salvation must be something more than having the your sins taken away. Yet more than that, he spake in these last days through the Lord Jesus, his Icon, a profound truth that must establish you in the true light of salvation. He said, ''I am come that they may have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.'' John 10vrs10. Now, if it was all about the redemption of sins, then it means God has betrayed his trust to mankind because the connotation of the word abundantly is plentifully, which suggest a life in which men is at rest from all his struggles. But we know that God is true and speak the whole truth all the time and has therefore fulfilled his word. What we simply have to do is to locate ourselves in his word of salvation-Christ, understand what it says about us and begin to live accordingly. In the following chapters therefore, you will discover what his infallible word says about your salvation and if you will but let not these revelations atrophy by lack of application, they will bless you with an eternal harvest. One more thing, remember that there is but only one manual for life that God inspired by which men can live in God's divine purpose for his life, the Holy Bible. Any other book or doctrine scripture which is claimed to be God's whether verbal or written, and regardless of how its name or way appeals to your imaginations, is not of God for were it of God, Jesus would have let us know about it and recommend it to us for doctrinal teaching.

Chapter 2: The Two Types of Christians, In-depth Analysis

Here are therefore some facts concerning the two types of Christians we have in the faith.

The born again Christian is a new being that never existed before, a product of the resurrection or born from the resurrection life (raised life of Christ Jesus) while the ordinary religious Christian is one who has been separated from the world into the faith but is not yet born of the Holy Spirit which is the resurrected life of Christ. The born again Christian's human spirit, with which he was born by his earthly parents-the first Adam, has been supplanted or replaced by the Spirit of God-the life of God itself in Christ Jesus, the second Adam and is superior to Satan while the religious Christian still possesses the human spirit of the first Adam which is vulnerable to Satan's vices. Simply put, this means that the born again Christian has parental instincts towards God-recognizes God as his true Father for his ties with his earthly parents spiritually have been severed totally even though he look like them physically while the religious Christian owes, hundred percent, the parental instincts of his earthly family-he is still alive to the first Adam and dead to the second Adam, Christ Jesus as compared to the born again who is dead to the first Adam and alive in the second Adam. The born again is conscious of the truth that, being recreated after the second Adam, the raised Lord Jesus in heaven, he is now a true child of God regardless of what he looks like now physically for when Jesus shows up in his second coming, he will be like him, 1John 3vrs2 while the religious Christian lives in the hope of becoming the children of God after the second coming of the Lord. Thus he conducts himself as the rest of the world in all manners except he believes in Jesus to be the son of God who redeemed his sins and is raised from the dead. The born again Christian lives in the reality that God chose him and separated him from the world unto the kingdom of heaven through Christ Jesus while the religious Christian's reality is that he is the one that choose God over the world so that he may in the last days enter the kingdom of heaven through Christ Jesus. Thus the first one has entered the kingdom already while the other is still living in anticipation of the kingdom of God. The born again Christian recognizes that he need not ask God for faith in face of trials, either to change them or to stand them, because God has already dealt, by grace, unto him the measure of faith, Romans 12vrs3, while the religious Christian seek faith and try to muster it in face of challenges which is why it is easier for the former to take God at his word and manifest it in his life and harder for the later to do the same. The born again is full of the Holy Ghost-the life of God that overcame Hell and speak his language, tongues, Acts 2vrs2-4, while the non-born again is still yet to receive the Holy Ghost and his language. This life of God, even the Holy Spirit, when he is come and is dwelling in you and with you, will guide you in the perfect will of God for your life, enabling you to live a triumphant life in superiority over the devil and all his cohorts. Ephesians 3vrs20; and this is a strange phenomenon to the religious Christian. The born again child exercise complete authority and dominion over all evil and circumstances of life because he has received, in the Holy Ghost, all power to reign in life through Christ, Ephesians 1vrs20-23 while the religious child is still victim to the devil and many if not all of his vices and the unfavourable circumstances of life. The born again fulfils the word of God as touching obedience by doing it, James 1vrs22-25 while the religious Christian tries to obey God passively as a way of fulfilling his word which is why he lives in a constant state of hope and expectation, experiencing little if any of ''..the fullness of God'', Ephesians 3vrs19. The born again Christian is no longer carnally minded- walks not by the senses anymore, 'the lusts of the flesh' for he has gained mastery over them, having been quickened by the Spirit now abiding in him while the religious Christian is still yet carnal-walk after the desires of the flesh which makes him vulnerable to sin and many vices of the devil which keep him in the consciousness that he still needs to be saved.

In addition to that, the born again Christian has already received eternal life and live in the reality of this truth, 1 John 5vrs13, 20 while the religious Christian still believe even though his sins has been forgiven, he still need to try harder to obey God's laws that one day, after he dies in the flesh, may receive the promise of eternal life. The born again child has been, through grace, made the righteousness of God-has received the rightness of God and therefore struggles not to be righteous by works of the law while as his counterpart still try to become right by observing the law of the ten commandments. Yes the law is righteous and holy but it could not save men and thus why Christ Jesus came to die for mankind that when God want to look at the righteousness of a believer, he looks on Christ, the sacrificial lamb without blemish. The born again Christian relates with God as a son or daughter through Christ while the religious Christian relates with God as a slave, which is why the former boldly declare, as he is so am I in this world 1 John vrs17, ''yea, I have a goodly heritage.'' Psalms16vrs6, even the inheritance of the saints in light because all that belongs to the Father belongs to him or her while as the other one, for as long as he or she is a slave is not at privilege to say so because he or she being a slave, is not entitled to inherit the heritage of the master. The born again has already, as a matter of fact, become a saint in light while the counterpart is still striving to attain that status. The born again is greater than Satan for he or she overcame him by the blood of the lamb and the testimony of his or her mouth, Revelations 12vrs10-12, which gives her or him the boldness to declare, greater is he that is in me than he that is in the world, 1John 4vrs4. But the religious counterpart still believes in and fears the superiority of the devil, hence still vulnerable to all his unsavoury dirty deceptive tricks, lies and things like that which cause him to panic at the first sign of any antagonism to his or her desires and endeavours, sickness or any other unfavourable circumstances of life. Moreso, the born again child reign in this life as a king and prince, a god because he understands that as his Father in heaven is, so is he in this world, 1John4vrs17, Psalms 82vrs6. But the religious child has not knowledge or lives in ignorance of this truth, mistaking the denial of this God given privilege as humility. He reasons like the rest of the world which believe conducting oneself in this manner is self exaltation which is exactly what the devil wants him to think so that he can keep on exercising authority over him. Furthermore, the born again child recognises the possession of super abundance as the will of God upon his life so that he may through it, spread abroad the cities of God-take the gospel to the uttermost parts of the earth, Zachariah1vrs17, Mark 10vrs29-30. But his counterpart, the religious child, believes that material prosperity is not for a child of God and so lives in self deprivation throughout his life which short changes his ability to minister effectively or find a strong motive to believe salvation is something more than just the forgiveness of sins. Apart from that, the religious child suffers from vast limitations concerning what he can do or achieve while the born again counterpart recognizes that all the limits are broken at the resurrection and therefore he can do or achieve anything he may set his mind or heart upon, Philippians 4vrs13; and last but not least, the born again Christian understands that by virtue of being saved, justified and made the righteousness of God in Christ Jesus, he has become the saviour of the world and the way of the lost, the light of those in darkness, Matthew5vrs14, the icon of Christ, an high and royal priest, 1Peter2vrs9, and a royal ambassador of the kingdom of heaven while the religious Christian still think it is still Jesus' responsibility to show people the way and win them unto God as sons and daughters. Truly, there is nothing wrong about that but since the Lord is now in heaven, these responsibilities are now vested in our hands we that are unto like him through the Holy Ghost which quickened us in his image. We now walk in this consciousness that we have come through the way and are sited in heavenly places with Christ Jesus, Ephesians2vrs6. But since we are still kept in this earth to finish the works of the Lord, we are now the way through which others, those still in darkness, may find their way home-to God in Christ Jesus.

From these observations can we therefore begin to explain in terms you may understand, what salvation is. They help you to observe, analyse and understand yourself in relation to our awesome Christian faith and what you must do to fully experience the fullness of God in Christ to which you are called; and it is my hope that many of my religious brothers and sisters out there, having learnt of these revelations, shall take the unfamiliar bold step to become born again Christians that we may experience this glorious life together and perfect the body of Christ. Through this brief expose, one may undoubtedly recognise that, only through rebirth can one become the true Christian who God intended to reign in life as a master over the devil and all challenges of life. One may also without difficulty, make well informed choices and decisions in life whether to remain stuck in want, lack, sickness, failure and defeat or to stand up and assume the true triumphant life that really belongs to them in Christ Jesus-a life of total fulfilment. In the forthcoming chapters, you will now learn about the various attributes of salvation, the knowledge and understanding of which may help you claim your princely position among the children of God in light. Invite the Spirit of God to open the eyes of your understanding and the ears of your heart that you might be able to comprehend the full significance of these forthcoming revelations. Set aside your beliefs and limitations and yield to just but the guidance of the Holy Spirit of God who inspired the writing of this book as he lead you in the truths of the kingdom and about yourself. Remember, no any single individual can understand and master that which he is not prepared to hear and put to the test. Your capacity to comprehend the significance of these revelations and their effectiveness consist in your initiative to learn by application. Of fact, they are practicable and reliable and I speak not only from the observation of myself alone as an amazing product of these revelations but from the observation of others also, who were lifted from mere ordinary religious Christian existence to the experiencing of that fullness of God which is called the rest of Christ. So, fasten your seat belt for its now time to fly!

Chapter 3: Attributes of Salvation

Salvation rightly understood is the expression of God's love for mankind in its entirety by making him the greatest he destined him to be than the worse he became after the fall. All the attributes of salvation we shall talk about in this book and anywhere else are only but to prove this one thing, God Loves Us! He loves all creation and that is why he sought hard a way to reconcile us back unto himself-his fullness through the death and resurrection of the Lord our saviour Christ Jesus. Truly, no friend is greater than him, the Lord Jesus, who laid down his life for our sake to the glory of Jehovah God the Father, our Father; and no other kind of love can ever fill up to this measure. Now, let us turn out unparalleled attention to the full description of the most important attributes of salvation. And we shall begin our expose by no other attribute than Deliverance.

(a) Deliverance

''Giving thanks unto the father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light: who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son.'' Colossians1vrs12-13 (KJV)

The underlined part of our opening scripture clearly let us know that deliverance is a present our reality. We shall not be delivered as some erroneous religious teachings often put it but we have already been delivered. This is in the past tense, indicating that deliverance is a long fulfilled part of your package of salvation. As a matter of fact, all mankind is delivered from the power of darkness because when Jesus gave up the ghost on the cross, he took upon himself the sins of the whole world, John 12vrs 47. We were all under the power of darkness before Jesus died for us on the cross and were as such, condemned. We walked in many ways that estranged us from God; we walked after the flesh, doing many detestable things which kindled his wrath. We partook in so many strange covenants with demonic forces knowingly and often, unknowingly- with or without our consent. In many traditional religions, children are still subject of or to strange covenants which their forefathers entered into for the desire of prosperity, money, power and other objectives of their desires which we cannot mention because of their nature. Unfortunately, these covenants are still holding many Christians in bondage of perceived curses that make them lead unfulfilling lives because they lack the knowledge of their deliverance and how to take advantage of it. They are still worshiping, knowing or unknowingly these demons of covenants-strange gods whom their forefathers of fathers partook in for various reasons. Their suffering in this particular case comes from their lack of knowledge that not only are they saved from sin but also from all evil the moment they received Jesus as the Lord of their lives. They are conscious only of their freedom from condemnation but not some perceived fear of severe punishment by the devil because they chose to follow the path of light. Normally, punishment is perceived in terms of misfortunes such as poverty, growth in the body, lack of love, barrenness, wandering and other diverse infirmities which they think or believe haunts them, which actually do if one lacks knowledge of how to walk out in triumph over any demon hatched after their name. But many thanks be unto our LORD and Father, God of our great grandfather Abraham after whom all nations of the earth are called; the God of Jacob, and Israel, and father of our Lord Jesus Christ who laid down his own life for this very cause that all might be redeemed from the power of darkness-these strange covenants whose effects had been tormenting mankind for ages with untold suffering. Who also inspired me to write this book to inform you of your victory in Christ Jesus for through his blood, he severed or liberated you not only from sin but also from any hold of the devil by any means that can be named. You are set free from all unconducive, detestable and unhealthy habits and have been translated into the marvellous triumphant life of God. You have been set free from any covenant you might have entered with or without your knowledge and consent and have been translated into a new holy living covenant of God in Christ Jesus which bequeath upon you ''.. all the fullness of God.'' Ephesians3vrs19. That means a life of total victory in which you live in superiority over Satan, his demons or his weapons with which he causes suffering like sickness, curses, poverty, and growth in the body, and defeat, and fear, and failure among other things. Concerning this kind life, the Holy Spirit speaking through Apostle Peter said in 2Peter1vrs3, ''...his divine hath given unto us (who are in Christ) all things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him (Christ) that hath called us to glory and virtue.'' Thus by offering his life in Christ, as a sacrificial lamb, God separated all who are called by his name in the son from darkness-world of misery into his marvellous light-world of glory. This means you have been set apart unto a life of vital health, blessings, success, peace, love, victory and unending splendour. No demon hatched out of hell, no matter how big and might, can conquer you by any means in any area of your life. The Bible clearly illustrate your superiority this way, ''And hath raised us up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus'', Ephesians2vrs6, and in the previous chapter, 1vrs21 it says we are seated ''Far above all principalities, and power, and might, and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come:'' Wow, what a life! And it all belongs to you because you have received Christ Jesus and are now a child of God for the Holy Spirit testifies through John the Baptist in John1vrs12-13 that, ''...as many as received Him, to him gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name: which were not born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God''. What a privilege it is to be a child of God and a citizen of the kingdom of heaven because in the moment you confessed Jesus Christ the Lord of your life, God translated you through the impartation of the Holy Ghost, into the kingdom of his dear son, Colossians1vrs13. You now belong to the household of God where they that dwell there dwell in triumph for they are totally liberated from all cares, John8vrs36. They are protected twenty four hours a day and three hundred and sixty five days a year, Psalms23vrs1. If you are born again, then this is your present hour reality because you have already been delivered into God's fullness, Colossians1vrs12-13. You are now free from not only sin but all infirmities and unproductive habits of any kind also.

Confession

The son has set me free. I am free indeed not only from sin but also from any kind sickness, poverty, failure, defeat, and lack. I am now superior to the devil and all his demons of darkness. I am a child of light and a citizen of the marvellous kingdom of heaven. God is now my father and everlasting light and in the name of Jesus, I have dominion over all power of darkness.

(b) Righteousness

'' _For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that we might be made the righteousness of God.'' 2Corinthians5vrs21_

Righteousness means the rightness of God, and our Lord Jesus Christ laid down his life that we might, through him, become the rightness of God. Before he died for us, we were separated from God because of our inequities and then he came and took our sins upon himself, for he was the righteousness of God knowing no sin, so that we might receive his righteousness and become worthy to stand before the presence of God. This means that whoever is born again of the Holy Spirit of God has now the righteousness of God-his complete nature of rightness; and it is now natural for one such an individual to do right and strange to partake in wrong activities. He cannot sin or be counted among the sinful for there is therefore no more condemnation of such recreated beings like him who are in Christ Jesus. He may be tempted to sin as do everyone else but he will not fall to any such temptations because the Spirit of God which despises sin has taken bode and gained dominion over his carnal senses. Instead, he considers such failed temptation as reminders for him to walk the confession of his faith. He now walks and lives in dominion over sin and the father of all sin himself the devil and all his little demons. Romans5vrs17 says, ''..they which receive abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ.'' Thus to say in other words, whomsoever is born again has overcame the world of darkness, Satan and all his cohorts and can now live triumphantly all the way to eternity. He is now exalted above them by virtue of being in Christ who spoiled and made a show of them all. Colossians2vrs15.

Being the righteousness of God implies also that every born again Christian, regardless of whether they were born yesterday or two seconds ago, can now stand in the presence of God without any feeling or consciousness of guilty, inferiority and unworthiness. God has thus granted unto them unqualified entry into his most holy place any time for any reason. They need not struggle anymore to become righteous in his eyes because God himself has granted unto them, as a gift, his righteousness without measure through Christ Jesus. According to Romans3vrs21-22, ''.. now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets; even the righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe: for there is no difference.'' This depicts the great love with which God loves us. He so loves us so much that he gave us, through his beloved son whom he laid on the cross, his righteous nature, giving us thereof the capacity to do right under all circumstances. He has brought us into union with him, the son and the Holy Spirit, thereby making us his children and heirs. Now we have become his complete perfection in divinity and are now worthy to be called gods. We now reign in life over darkness and evil even as he, the Lord reign, for as he is, so have we become in this world.

Adding to that, being the righteousness of God means also we now have unrestricted access to the holy throne of God. Hebrews10vrs19-29 says, ''Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh......Let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith,'' As you may be aware, in times past, under the Mosaic Covenant, no single person except for the high priest, had the authority or privilege should we rather say, to enter the holy place once per year with the blood of atonement. However, Jesus Christ, through his death, tore down that Vail of the temple, giving access to all who are washed in his blood and made the righteousness of God by the law of the Spirit, unrestricted entry into the holy of holies. In fact, all who are born again now live in the holy of holies because they live in God's presence. They can now talk to the father any time without having to depend on the prayers of fellow saints for any request. The channel of communication between them and God is now unrestricted twenty four hours a day and can therefore converse with the King as they please whether in prayer, hymn, song or psalm for any given reason. Thus, the Father, through his unqualified love for us, has given us the privilege of hearing any time and with full assurance that he will hear us, 1Peter3vrs12 and grant that which we may ask of him. Heretofore, one can also see that the true meaning of salvation surpasses just but the forgiveness of sins.

Prayer

Heavenly Father, I am so grateful for your love and grace without measure in our Lord Christ Jesus. By faith I have received justification and righteousness into my spirit. I now have peace with you through Jesus and am now worthy to stand in your presence and have a hearing with you any time, being fully assured that you hear me and grant the request of my petitions. I walk now in this consciousness, with a merry and exult heart, giving you glory in Jesus Name. Amen

(c) You've Been Separated unto Life

'' _I tell you the truth, whoever hears my word and believes him who send me has eternal life and will not be condemned; he has crossed over from death to life.'' John5vrs24_

First and foremostly, it is very important to note that, according to this scripture, words spoken by our Lord Jesus Christ, an individual receives eternal life and survive condemnation by no other means except hearing his (Jesus) word which is the wisdom of God that he spake, and then believe on God. The two, hearing and believing, are the complements that unveil eternal life. Without the other, none of them on its own can save anyone. Note while we are still here that hearing the word of Christ doesn't just connote listening and afterwards say, 'the teaching are so good' and just leave it all at they are good conclusion. Hearing means pondering on them and understand what they means, then accept them to be true, having gripped their significance at a spiritual level or with your spirit, which is the heart of the person where the word enters and takes permanent residence. Why is this important? Because your believing in God is not of essence or perfect until you have come to understand who he really is. Many people assume they know God because they were told by someone that there is a God but they hardly understand him. To know someone, you must have a relationship with that person, then learn about him; his personality traits and all the bits and pieces that makes him whoever he is. You cannot claim to know someone because you were told something about that particular person by someone else. What if they told you what they just heard from someone else, which is half truth and half lies or utterly lies which they bought into due to ignorance. In the same vein, you cannot know or claim to know God because someone told you there is a God unless he has provided evidence to back up his tales. If you just buy into any story about God, you will end up idolatrous just like a kid who hero worships soccer or wrestling stars he knows nothing about but heard about from his peers. You must first learn about God, and in Jesus Christ's personality, which is embodied in the word that he spake, the wisdom of God, that's where you can discover who God really is because the Bible clearly explain that Jesus is the express image of the invisible God, Matthew1vrs23. He was born of the Spirit of God which God tabernacle in Marry, John1vrs14. The life that he had when he walked in the earth was the life of God. Thus to say in other words, God was in the world as Christ Jesus evidence of which might be drawn from 2Corithians5vrs19 which says, ''To wit, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them; and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation.''; and 1Timothy3vrs16 says, ''..without controversy great is the mystery of godliness: God was manifest in the flesh, justified in the Spirit, seen of angels, preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up into glory.'' Also, John1vrs10 have this testimony to bear about Jesus, ''He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not.'' Thus, by receiving the word of God, ponder on and understand it, you will come to really know and understand who God is and believe him with a right heart because only, and I repeat, only in the word of Jesus is God made manifest; and in so doing, you get hold of you master key to everlasting life and survive condemnation.

In simpler terms, this implies that all flesh must be born again for the Spirit of God testified through the master that no one has the immunity to live-enter the kingdom of heaven unless they are born again, John3vrs3. Now, hearing Jesus word and believing God is not just a passive acceptance and understanding of the truth or the Word of God. It means also acting upon that word by confessing, Romans10vrs9 with your mouth-that means speaking, that Jesus is Lord of heaven and earth to the glory of God the Father, and believes in your heart-spirit that God raised him from the dead. Notice that the active ingredient of salvation here is confession based on believing in Jesus Christ of Nazareth as the Lord and Saviour of mankind. That believing and confession constitutes also acting out what you believe and confess having known and understood it. Why is confession so important, you might be wondering? According to Romans10vrs10, ''..with the heart man believes unto righteousness and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation.'' In other words, believing makes you right with God and confession and acting out your confession takes you over to life in its fullest measure. Thus, when you have become right with God by believing on Christ Jesus as the only begotten and saviour of the world and confess that you are by him as the Lord, your Lord and Saviour; you cross over the boundary that separates death and life and come into life. You become alive unto God in Christ Jesus; and to be alive means among other things, to exist out of the world where Satan dominates through such vices as sin, illness, poverty, defeat, failure and worry. You become awakened to God's real of life where only but the good happen. This means you can now discern his voice, his thoughts, and his will and purpose for your life and walk accordingly. His light is made manifest in you, and so will be his rightness, grace, love, peace, joy, and prosperity, as well as his marvellous works. You ascend to a level of life where you function by his revelations in all things because his counsel will guide you in all your endeavours, 1Corinthians6vrs17. Another Scripture to help unveil the concept of being alive to God clearly is 2Corinthians5vrs17 which says, ''..if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature: old things are passed away: behold, all things are become new.'' This means that your old nature and all his short comings is no more in existence and neither can he revive again someday to your detriment. Any teaching that points to such an end is erroneous because when old things are passed away and all things are become new, it exactly means that! Where will the old things come from having been utterly destroyed? No haunting ghosts or anything of that sort. They are all buried once and for all, Romans6vrs6. Only the devil will try to frighten you with superstitious beliefs and non-existent images that you may fail to experience your salvation and go back and do wicked things and then a worse thing which is death of the spirit happens; and in case this happens to you as a born again Christian, all you have to do is rebuke the devil in the name of Jesus by reminding him you are a new creation superior to him and therefore next time he shows up with his dirty deceptive tricks you will burn him with the unquenchable fire of the Lord and he will flee from you, James4vrs17, Zechariah3vrs2. You are now a completely new person that never existed before even though you look the same old person on the outside. There is no place where the record of your past life exist because it is utterly destroyed. Yes, you may look the same but your human spirit which is the real you that stands judgement day is completely new, the old one which you had from your biological parents having been replaced by that of God, the Holy Spirit-the life that tabernacle itself in Mary's womb; God's kind of life, which is indestructible and unconquerable and cannot be haunted by any past memories. Those who are haunted by past memories must grip the significance of these anecdotes of truth and they will make them free. Their suffering arose by lack of knowledge, Hosea4vrs6 and many of them even reject it even if you try to tell them. Instead they choose to continue in their self sabotaging traits and erroneous beliefs but since we are born for this cause, to enlighten mankind and save it from the hands of the wicked one, we won't give up until they have gotten the message straight and are saved. Perhaps you are one such a person; please don't continue in your ignorance. This is the truth and if you stick to it, it will make you free. Ministering unto you and I through Apostle Paul, the Holy Ghost said, ''These things have I written unto you that believing on the name of the Son of God; that you may know ye have eternal life'', John5vrs13; evenso, these things have I written unto you that having believed on his name, Jesus Christ, you may know you have not only received the forgiveness of your sins alone but have also passed from death to life in its fullest measure. You are now delivered into the triumphant life of unending peace, love, joy, prosperity, success, victory and divine health.

Prayer

Heavenly Father, O righteous God, I thank you in the name of Jesus for separating me from death unto life. I bless your name O God of my Salvation, my redeemer and my Lord in whom I now live, walk and have my whole being. Thank you for blessing me with thy fullness in all things, even protection and all necessities and godliness in Jesus name. Amen.

(d) Justified

'' _..for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith'' Romans3v23-25_

Justification is by grace and not by works. As our opening scripture has unveiled, no man is blameless before the king of glory, the LORD God. All have fallen and until they receive redemption of their sins in Christ Jesus, they remain condemned; and it is a great tragedy that many religious teachers and Christians still pride themselves in their observance of the law, believing erroneously that they are or shall be justified by their abiding in the Ten Commandments. This however, as we have noted, is contrary to true Christianity, the approved way of God as evidenced by our opening scripture, the word of God spoken through Apostle Paul by the Holy Spirit. Of fact, there is no doubt at all that nobody can be justified by the law because not even Moses, the beloved servant of God who received the law from God and gave it to the children of Israel was able to come out blameless, Numbers20vrs12, 27vrs14 and that brings us to one of the most important questions in connection with salvation. What does justification means? Justification simply means acquittal. When a man commits an offense, he is brought before a tribunal or a court of law to answer for his crime. If he is convicted of any such offense as may be levelled against him, he is condemned and punished for his offense as it happened to Moses whom the LORD suffered not to enter Israel for striking the rock twice when the Lord had told him to strike it just but once, but if such a man put forward convincing evidence to the jury that he committed not any offense in whatever he is accused of, he is acquitted from his offense or declared not guilty.

You will remember that under the Mosaic Law, whosoever was caught on the wrong side of the law was condemned to death by stoning, Leviticus20vrs10. Doubtless, you will remember also the case involving the prostitute who was caught in the very act of adultery and was brought to the Master our Lord Jesus, John8vrs3-11 for a verdict of condemnation as the scribes and Pharisees sought to tempt Jesus saying, ''..Moses in the law commanded us, that such should be stoned: but what sayest thou?'' and he told them, ''He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her''. The Bible clearly tells us that ''..they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standeth in the midst,'' to whom he said, if no man condemned thee, ''Neither do I condemn thee, go and sin no more.'' In this case, the sinner was declared not guilty by the Master, not because she sinned not but because the law of grace in Christ Jesus upheld her as not guilty. Thus by the grace of God in the Lord Jesus, she was justified-acquitted of her offense, for the Master knowing fully his purpose, that he came to die for such as her, took ahead of time, the punishment of her sins upon himself even though himself was not guilty of any offense, 1Peter2vrs22. By so doing, she became at peace with God through Christ Jesus for from that moment on, he held her not accountable for her sins.

In the same vein, whomsoever gave his life to Christ Jesus and has confessed Jesus Christ the Lord of his or her life has received the same justification by faith. His or her sins are forgiven and is now at peace with God through Christ, Romans5vrs1. God is no longer mad at him for his trespasses as the Bible clearly indicates that, to such, there is therefore now no condemnation for the law of the Spirit of life has set them free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. Another depiction of justification would mean, to be declared worthy or to be held deserving. You will remember once again the account of Rahab, when Joshua sent out two spies to spy out Jericho. The Bible tells us that Rahab, a prostitute that lived in Jericho, saved the two spies from being killed by the soldiers of Jericho who came looking for them, Joshua2vrs1-22. In return for the favour, she was justified-held worthy, her and her family, to live when Jericho was laid waste, verse12-14. This is equivalent to saying that whosoever has faith in Christ Jesus as the redeemer and saviour is declared without reservation, worthy to live forever and partake of the inheritance of the saints in light. As much as Rahab deserved an inheritance amongst the children of Israel by her saving act, so is the one who accept Christ Jesus. He is set free from sin and death by the law of the Spirit of life in Christ as a reward for his faith.

Prayer of Justification

Heavenly Father I thank you in the Name of our Lord Jesus Christ for justifying me through nothing else but faith in the Lord. I now walk and live in the full consciousness that Jesus took the punishment of my sins when he died on the cross even though he was not guilty of any offense. I heartily thank you for the peace I now enjoy with you through my Lord in Jesus Name. Amen

(e) Born to a Triumphant Life

'' _I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me''. Philippians4vrs13_

A triumphant life is one of unending glory and victory; an inspiring and extraordinary life in which one care less about the circumstances of life and or the devil and all his little cohorts. According to our opening scripture, the individual who is living or is born to live triumphantly is unlimited and unstoppable in and at all things. He can set his mind or heart at achieving any goal and get exactly that which is the object of his desire. He can set sail towards any harbour-destination in life and dock at the perfect harbour he set out towards regardless of what may come his way. Being inspired by the Holy Ghost, Apostle Paul was not basically saying that God is able to do anything for him, so he is going to wait and hope for God to change any undesirable situation in his life. Emphatically no! Instead he was talking of the Holy Spirit infused inherent ability he had which recognised not any such a thing as defeat, failure or loss. He recognised and understood that the superseding anointing of the Holy Ghost which he had and was at work mightily in him was able through him to turn any stumbling block into a stepping stone or convert any set back into an equivalent seed of gain.

This is one reason why when the brethren at Caesarea, warning him of the risk of going to Jerusalem and tried to restrain him, even a prophet called Agabus, Acts21vrs10-12, he said, ''What mean ye to weep and break mine heart? for I am ready not to be bound only, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.'' He was more than convinced that he was set on the path of unending victory and glory, and therefore any undesirable circumstances were nothing but well calculated heavenly opportunities for him to manifest the power of God that was at work in him. For him, any challenge was a stepping stone to the fulfilling of his course for he knew that the inherent power that was at work in him was greater than the powers that be at Jerusalem. Thus throughout his entire ministry, even when he was in prison, he was not perturbed at all. Instead his spirits were always high, which is to say, he lived triumphantly. Today, by virtue of the same inherent power that was at work in Paul, the anointing that made him able to do all he did, which is the power of the Holy Ghost, the greatest attributes and benefits of salvation, you are born to a triumphant life in Christ Jesus too like Paul. You too can do all things because the saving power of God in Christ Jesus has been bequeathed upon you without measure; that inherent ability to turn any circumstance to your own benefit is fully at work in you. Concerning this power, Apostle John said, ''For this purpose is the Son of God manifested in us, that we might destroy the works of the devil'' 1John3vrs8. The works of the devil are the undesirable circumstances of life, the hard knocks. So being infused with the life of God which overcame the devil, your abilities have now become unlimited and there is therefore absolutely nothing that is impossible for you. This may sound like hocus-pocus to the spiritually uninitiated but not so to the fathers who now know that this is the whole truth, for the ability with which one become able to do all things is not of men, the carnal type where you rely on your senses and judgments of your natural thoughts and eyes but that of God. The best way however to explain this mystery to the carnally minded individual though is to let the scriptures speak for themselves as according to 2Corinthians3vrs5 in which the Holy Spirit, the anointer, spake through Apostle Paul saying, ''Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves; but our sufficiency is of God''. This in other words clearly indicates that the ability with which one can do all things and live the triumphant life is not of men but of God. When one gets born again, God releases this sufficiency fully-his abilities in that very person through the anointing of the Holy Ghost. He releases his glorious divine power and capabilities-his life into the born again individual thereby equipping such an individual with the unction to be up for any task; and this is a present hour reality and benefit of salvation unto you as a born again Christian. You now have the competence mentally, physically, spiritually, and intellectually to do anything. You can now choose whether to or not to live a triumphant life like Paul; a life so inspiring and extraordinary that all things, regardless of how bad they may appear, only work for your good. In this light, you can see that God is already at work in you and therefore you need not wait for him to come from somewhere to change things for your good, be it at work, at home, in your relationship, in your business, in your health, in your finances or any other area of your life. You are already anointed with his inherent ability to function like him and accomplish anything for his fullness is upon you through Christ Jesus who lives in you. You don't need to wait and hope any more. Just exercise your authority in Christ and release the holy anointing on you to affect the changes you want to see happening in your life and begin to experience the victorious life to which you are born in Christ Jesus.

Now, it is vitally important to recognise that the triumphant life, a benefit of God's saving power in Christ, is not available to any or every person except the recreated individual. Often times, many people say if they do good works and observe the commandments of Moses they will be remembered by God and get blessed with the victorious life just like the born again person. The truth of the matter however is actually the contrary. In Acts10vrs2, we are given the account of Cornelius, a Roman Centurion, ''A devout man, and one that feared God with all his house, which gave much alms to the people, and prayed to God alway'' but was not saved-living the triumphant life in other words. Despite all his goods works and observance of the law, the glorious life was at large for him until when God send an Angel to tell him to send for Peter who when he was come, ministered unto him and he believed and confessed the Lordship of Jesus Christ and was thus saved. The triumphant life consist therefore of your decision to become a child of God through Christ Jesus, through whom when you confess his Lordship over your life, receive the parentage of God and all his abilities. As John1vrs12 tells us, only those that receive him receive the power to become the sons of God. Henceforth to live the triumphant life, it is a prerequisite that you get born again; and in this light one cannot fail to underscore the fact that salvation is something more than just the forgiveness of sins.

(f) Made Super Intelligent

'' _But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom, which God ordained before the world unto our glory: which none of the princes of this world knew: for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory.'' 1Corinthians2vrs7-8_

Apart from having your sins taken away by Christ Jesus, your package of salvation includes an anointing of the Spirit of wisdom and understanding of all things and all subjects. You will remember that in the topic 'Born to a triumphant life', we expressed the point that when you are born again, God impacts into you his life-his nature and abilities that you may function just like him in all things. Your sufficiency becomes of God and this sufficiency encapsulates even the way you think and understand issues presented before you. You become super intelligent just like God, for you will be discerning things by his super-mind. This ability to function intellectually by God's mindset, the supreme mind which knows not such a thing as abstract but discern and understand all things and all subjects is what we call super intelligence or infinite acumen. God is a super intelligent God and Father, and therefore he would not make dumb kids. Regardless of how the princes of this world, the so-called learned or greats may label God's child, the born again, in God's sight such a kid is no ordinary and no dump at all. This means that if, as a born again Christian, someone calls you dumb and addle minded, you have the privilege to tell them 'I forgive you for your wrong perception of me. Next time just try to look at the real me' which is the express image of the super intelligent God that you are.

You know as I do well know that, Jesus Christ, in whom was the fullness of God was super intelligent unto knowing and understanding all things. Now, because this very Jesus, the express image of God, has been made wisdom unto you 1Corinthians1vrs30, you now also function with that same super intelligence and understanding as a born again Christian because that anointing of super acumen with which he functioned is now upon you fully. The carnally minded and greats of this world of cause will misunderstand this as exalting ourselves as Gods but the truth is this that we are truly gods of God by merit of being born after him in Christ Jesus, John10vrs34, Psalms82vrs6. We are icons of God; his express image in all ways by virtue of being recreated after his true likeness in Christ Jesus and therefore are at privilege to act, speak, walk and work just like him because as he is, so are we in this world 1John4vrs17 because he now lives in us. We have become his living tabernacle, 1John4vrs4. The 'wisdom of God hidden in a mystery', according to our opening scripture refers to insight into all realities, even the hidden wisdom. Truly, the wisdom of God is hidden in a mystery but not unto the born again Christian because this mystery is Christ in them Colossians1vrs27, the unction that made him who he was; the spirit of God that caused him to walk, speak and work the way he worked. Thus to say every recreated being is the icon of Christ in this world, filled with the power (Holy Spirit) to manifest the glory and grandeur of God. He is called to live in total dominion over all powers, principalities, authorities and rulers, not only in this world but also in all heavenly places to include that old little serpent, Satan the prince of all them little demons, Ephesians1vrs21. Why? Because he has received the wisdom and understanding of God in Christ which supersedes any of that of these powers that be. In fact they sent packing in the presence of one such a being and or a rebuke for their own anointing is corrupted. This new being, the born again, shall judge the angels 1Corinthians6vrs3 and he now walks by revelation knowledge which the princes of this world or the powers that be in heavenly places and on earth or under the earth knows not and neither can they receive it; and by reason of this deficiency in revelation knowledge, they killed the son of God, Jesus Christ. Who are the princes referred in our opening scripture, you may wonder? These are the wise of this world, the so-called great to whom God is a mystery and because of that, they recognise not the ordinary guy from Nazareth as the Lord and Saviour when he lived and walked among them in this world. Even today, many of them are ignorant of the greatness and glory of the born again Christian. They actually call them the dumbest people on this planet yet the contrary is the whole truth.

However, even though super intelligence is part of the package of salvation, for it to metamorphose into its finest form, the kind that discern all things seemingly abstract, it must be seasoned by regularly studying and meditating on the word of God and walk in its light because the word of God is the wisdom of God. In Colossians1vrs9, Apostle Paul who was super intelligent in all the knowledge and understanding of godly mysteries, exhorted us, having been inspired by the Holy Spirit, to ''...be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding.'' The same spake again in Colosians3vrs16 saying, ''let the word of God dwell in you richly in all wisdom..''. The reason for which he emphasised on studying the word of God, the only means by which we can become super intelligent beings, is this that, the word of God has the capacity to programme you mentally in line with God's accurate knowhow of anything; and when you are programmed in the accurate knowledge of God's word, you become excellently able to discern the seemingly abstract and handle the seemingly challenging subjects or situations that are put to your attention. This explains in part why King Solomon was so intelligent. He studied the word of God and got soaked in it. God didn't open his head to put wisdom and understanding inside it, he simply anointed him with the power of the Holy Ghost to discern the complex because he delighted in and studied the word of God. Another example of an individual in which this glorious power worked excellently was Isaac. When there was famine in Canaan, he thought of going down to sojourn in the land of Egypt but God restrained him. The scriptures clearly unveils that despite the of the severe drought that was in Canaan, Isaac dug wells and found water while others who dug wells were not able to get it; and in that period of severe and untold drought, Isaac ''...waxed great and went forward, and grew until he became very great: For he had possession of flocks, and possession of herds, and great stores of servants: and the Philistines envied him'' Genesis26vrs12-14. How this fellow did know where to find water while the rest were so unsuccessful? How come he waxed so great as to be envied in a land that was drought ridden and where there was literally shortage of everything, you may be wondering? The answer lies in the simple fact that Isaac studied and meditated constantly and consistently on the word of God, Genesis24vrs63; and God delighted in that passion and anointed him with super intelligence concerning what to do in all things. By meditating and studying the word of God, he soaked himself in the word so much that the infilling of the spirit of knowledge and understanding of the will of God became his second nature, and was therefore blessed with revelation knowledge to guide him in the right course in all things. Of the same thing we can speak also of Elisha who when one of his fellow prophets lost an axe head in the river Jordan while they were hewing a tree, cut down a branch and threw it at the spot where the axe head fell and as if by a stroke of magic, it floated upon the river surface, 2Kings6vrs5. Elisha knew what to do to retrieve that axe-head from underneath the river because he was anointed with super intelligence by God to do the seemingly impossible. So as a benefit of salvation unto you, the capacity to function in the same fashion like these greats is now yours because the word, Christ Jesus, which is the anointing that was at work in them, is now manifested and made wisdom unto you. The wisdom and understanding of God is now at work in you. You now can do all things and live the triumphant life because God's power of super intelligence in you; you can now discern the abstract and know what to do in any given situation. As part to the package of salvation, God's mental acumen in Christ Jesus is granted unto you, giving you insight without measure into all hidden mysteries and divine secrets which the wise of the world cannot know or understand.

(g) Sanctification

'' _Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the Kingdom of God. Be not deceived: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulaters, nor effeminate, nor abuse of themselves with mankind, Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you: but ye arte washed, but ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God.'' 1Corinthins6vrs9-11_

To be sanctified means to be consecrated, to be set apart as sacred from the world of wickedness. The moment you receive the Lord Jesus Christ into your heart and become a born again Christian, God separates you from all worldliness, traits of which are; fornication, adultery, idolatry, effemination, self gratification-abuse of self, stealing, extortion, bribery, covetousness, reviling, drunkenness, and all carnality Galatians5vrs19. But not only does he separate you from these alone, he also set you apart from the arena of failure, poverty, defeat, sickness, doubt, superstition, wandering, selfishness, greed, and worry unto the glorious arena of success, prosperity, unending victory, divine healthy, purpose driven living, faith, definiteness of decision making and action, and glory and mastery over all superstition, fear, procrastination and doubt, 1John4vrs4, Philippians4vrs13. He has thus made you alive in Christ Jesus, lifting you up to be superior to Satan and death.

Now, it is very important to note that even though God has separated you unto himself from the filthy gully-world of wickedness, sanctification is a continuous process that requires you the sanctified to commit time, effort and resources to its effective completion. For the simple reason that many of the things-traits which makes you dirty develop or manifest through habitual practice, weaving them over a long period of time, it would also require time and commitment to break them. As the old saying goes, 'old habits die hard', it would take focused action and perseverance to break these habits down and replace them with new and more pleasing and empowering ones that conforms to your new nature. The cleansing you receive as a born again when you are separated from the world is basically spiritual and at best, theoretical; and therefore for it to manifest on the outside, you must imitate on the outside the cleanliness that is imparted into your spirit by the Holy Ghost when you receive Christ. Thus to say the anointing of sanctification rests on the human heart-spirit and is then manifested in the physical body through effort-deeds. You have to act it out so that you body may prosper in salvation even as your spirit prospered. This takes effect first in the mind, cursory evidence of which we may note in Romans12vrs2 in which, being inspired by the Holy Spirit, Apostle Paul said, ''..be ye transformed (cleansed of the filthy gully) by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect will of God''; thus bringing us to one of the most profound of all truths that, the possession of anything in life begins as nothing but a mindset. Those who struggle with old habits and all the unpleasant bits of their lives, whether in health, finances, business, love or anything else, must take note of this truth for it will make them free. It is the consciousness that comes first before one can manifest the equivalent physical reality of that which one desire. If as a Christian, desire to really experience the freedom that Jesus brought unto you in salvation, freedom from not only sin but from poverty, sickness, failure, defeat or infirmities of any kind, freedom from Satan and his little demons, freedom from the fear of death, loss of love or anything else, embrace your freedom mentally first. Begin today and right now to replace all the negative interlopers or thoughts associated with all the bits of your life which are unpleasant with more positive ones that align perfectly with what you want to experience. Edit them out by subjecting your mind to the Spirit of God through constant and consistent studying of the word. Meditate by prayer, confession, affirmation, song, psalm, self talk or mirror talk upon the word that you study and it will permanently change to become what you really want to be. Concerning the effect of conducting yourself in this way, the Holy Spirit speaking through Moses said in Joshua1vrs8, ''This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success''. It doesn't matter what you want to see happening in your life, just locate it in God's word and begin to ponder upon it. Mortar it day and night for at least two weeks and you will be baffled by the results; and observe not to neglect making confession of victory about that which you desire to see manifesting because with the mouth confession is made unto salvation, Romans10vrs10. I would that you put much emphasis on confession for as the scriptures clearly indicated, it is not the believing that takes you to salvation-freedom, the experiencing of healthy, success, prosperity, victory, and all the fullness of God in Christ Jesus but the confession. You got to speak it! You got to mortar it! You got to see and confess it as real in the spirit though not yet real in the physical plane. You got to say it until you become it and are compelled by it to take definite actions that make you experience it. Thus instead of thinking and talking about the negatives that keeps you in the ditch of unpleasant experiences all the time, you got to think and boldly declare 'I am a new creation, I am a child of the King and have got the life of God in me! Therefore I can do all things! I can have anything I want by the power that is now at work in me! I am a success! I am super prosperous! I am superior to Satan and all his little demons because greater is he that is in me than he that is in the world! I am more than a conqueror in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth! I reign in this life regardless what I see now. Some folks will hear you and think you have gone nuts because you look like them outwardly but tell them 'you are looking at the wrong thins fellows. Watch me because I am a champion on the rise! This is to build a victorious consciousness and when it is seasoned, it will manifest its equivalent realities just as the clouds pours upon the earth when they are full of water.

Prayer

Heavenly Father, I thank you in the Name of Jesus for separating me from all worldliness; and for washing me with the blood of thy Holy Lamb. My body is prospering in sanctification even as my soul has prospered. I am clean now and superior to the evil. I have overcome all my past habits, the chains which held me in bondage and in the ditch. I am sanctified in Jesus Mighty Name. Amen.

(h) Called to be a High Priest of God

''But this man (Christ Jesus), because he continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood. Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. For such an high priest became us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separated from sinners, and made higher than the heavens;'' Hebrews7vrs24-26.

The duties of a priest consist in interceding and offering sacrifices to God for the saints. Now, while it is a must that we must carry out these duties, our priestly office is now bigger than that which the fellows of the old testament like Aaron held, where only one man had to do it and do only a few stipulated duties. Being born again and now a beloved child of God in Christ Jesus, it means you are called to do nothing else but honour and glorify God through Christ responsibilities given to you by the Holy Ghost as gifts for the perfection of the body of Christ-the Church, Ephesians4vrs11-13. And regardless of what we are doing for the edification of the Church or may do, we are all high priests of God in Christ for we are serving as him (the high priest) in this world through the Holy Spirit according to our opening scriptures. What we do might not actually depict priesthood duties as we formally know them but for the fact that it is no longer us doing what we are doing for the glory of God but Christ Jesus in us, the high priest, all what we do constitutes to priestly duties in light of us being representations of Christ Jesus the high priest of God. This implies therefore that every born again Christian has been placed on the path that he or she must follow according to God's predestination and this path is a glorious path that leads to complete fulfilment; and regardless of how we may chose to serve in our priestly offices, the bottom line is this that, as much as the Lord Jesus came into the world to reconcile men unto God, John10vrs10, evenso, we who are called by his name, as high priests, have assumed this responsibility. We are now the truth, the light and the way unto they that are lost and are groping in the dark. It is now our responsibility to intercede and pray for the world, to bring men unto the father because Jesus the person is now in heaven-our hearts and therefore cannot perform these tasks except through us. We are now the holy tabernacles of God, where the deity lives and works from and we must therefore show forth the glory of him that called us into his marvellous light; and the greatest way through which we can all serve in our priestly offices apart from interceding and praying for others is evangelising and/or witnessing the Lord. We must go unto the world and testify that Jesus Christ came into the world as the only beloved Son of the living God, and was crucified for the sins of the whole world, and was resurrected from the dead, and is now sited at the right hand of God in glory and honour. This is a clear priestly duty for any disciple of Jesus for he said in Luke16vrs15-18, ''Go ye into the world, and preach the gospel to every creature..'', casting out devils and healing the sick. We have now become saviours of the world for the Holy Spirit spake through Obadiah in chapter1vrs21 saying, ''...saviours shall come up on mount Zion (Church) ..'', the mount upon whence is deliverance of the world, vrs17.

Knowledge of these facts may thus serve you from oscillating between one thought from another trying to figure out what office is yours in the Church and it certainly enhances your capacity to become an effective witness for you are now not bound by any confines of men which at best help strip you of your identity and responsibilities in the kingdom of the Lord. Priests' greatest requisites are these that they must be holy and chosen and so are you by virtue of being in Christ Jesus who is without blemish and is preferred above all others. Now, the benefit of your priestly calling as an attribute of salvation is this that your life is put on purpose and verily, fulfilment begins at the stage in life where one assumes a God and a God purpose for God's purpose. Without a God purpose for God's purpose, the life of any man is nothing but death for it is solely committed to things in its entirety. Real meaningful living and success, and victory, and prosperity, and wealth begin with one's living of his or her heavenly calling; the highest call of all callings in all walks of life, which is none other than the priestly calling, 1Peter2vrs9. Think about it, you can now bless the whole world in any way you want, by prayer or works, as long as you are doing whatever you chose to do in the Name of Jesus. As much as the Lord after whom you are now a high royal priest, is the highest priest, so have you become and you can thus now like him cause everlasting changes to happen in the whole world or anyone's life any time. You can pray for the sick to be healed and they will be healed. You can pray for the gospel to grow mightily and it will grow indeed. You can even choose to minister yourself and you will succeed any where any time. You can even intercede for presidents and governments to be healed of arrogance, corruption and betrayal of trust and they will be reproved by the Holy Ghost or be changed completely. Praise God hallelujah! Now, since you have come to realise who you really are in Christ Jesus, will it not be an honourable thing for you to take one bold step and assume your priestly responsibilities? Verily, it's high time you do that and you may affect that bold step by praying the following priestly prayer, meaning it with all your heart so that you might be empowered by the Holy Ghost for the various duties he will instruct you to carry out. You must keep on praying this prayer as many days as you can, at least twice a day, once in the morning and once before retiring to bed so as to build a superseding consciousness over any limitations you might have. From that consciousness then, you can function effectively in your priestly office-in executing your honourable priestly duties. Remembering that the possession of anything worthwhile in life begins as a consciousness and when it is seasoned, it will manifest itself forth in all your endeavours for the kingdom just as clouds empty themselves unsparingly upon the earth when they are full of rain.

Priestly Calling Prayer

'' _But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light;'' 1Peter2vrs9_

''O Righteous Heavenly Father, God of all creation and God of my Salvation, I thank you for bringing me to this glorious hour that I may assume my royal priestly calling in the Name of Jesus that I may bring you honour and glory. Thank you for glorifying me thy child in the Lord since thou have given unto me power without measure over all creation in heavenly places and on earth that I may give eternal life and blessings unto all that thou has given me in the Name of Jesus. Yes LORD, this is eternal life and blessings, that they may know, honour and worship thee the only true God and Father of our Saviour and I whom thou has send unto them. I glorify thee as I undertake to establish thy glorious Paradise on earth because for this purpose I am come of thy will in Christ Jesus. Thank you for glorifying me in your presence with the full glory I had with you before I was in this world. I manifest thy Name to those whom thou gave me out of the world, as many as shall believe in and confess the Lord Jesus Christ. Thine they are, and thou gave them to me that they may hear, believe and keep Your Word. Now shall they receive the Word of truth which thou gave me and they shall abide in it to thy glory and honour until thou come. Even so, come O LORD.

I pray for them and will always pray for them; I pray not for the world but for those whom thou gave me in the Lord for thy glory, for thine are they; all mine are thine yet in them thou has glorified me. Among them shall I be as thou have appointed and I am grateful to You for keeping them in thy righteous Name, which thou gave unto me, that they are one, even as we are one in the Father. In Your name shall I keep them and by Your Word, which is thy wisdom, shall I guide and strengthen them in all things and none shall be lost except the children of darkness. That which I see and know not teach me thou for their benefit that they may glorify thee in all things. Again I beseech thee O LORD GOD that, that which I see and know not teach me thou for their benefit that they may glorify and honour you in all things. In fulfilling my calling, thy Word of truth, give I them that they may have our joy fulfilled in themselves. And they shall not be of the world anymore even as I am not of the world. Pray not I only for them which thou gave me but also for they which shall believe in me and in thy eternal Word through their testimonies so that they may all be one even as we are one, you in me and me in you. The world shall hate them and persecute them even as it shall hate and persecute me and as it did to my Lord because they won't belong to the world anymore Yet pray not I that ye take them from out of the world but that thou keep them from the son of perdition, Satan. Thank you for separating and sanctifying thy sheep in Christ Jesus; in the truth; and in thy Word for thy own glory. As thou send me in the name of the Lord, so shall I send them unto others in the Name of Jesus that thy will may be perfectly done, even establishing thy Kingdom of Heaven on Earth. The love with which thou love me manifests I unto them that they may abide in it also. O righteous Jehovah, I thank and honour you for your righteousness, and for your peace, and for your joy which I have in the Holy Ghost in me and with me in Christ Jesus. Mine heart is merry and exults because thou art my everlasting light and I am called by Your Holy Name and the name of thy holy city, even the heavenly Jerusalem. Yea LORD, to do thy will am I come; for thine is the Kingdom, and the Power, and the Honour and the Glory forever and ever in Jesus Name. Amen.

Praise God Hallelujah! Now you are a truly ordained high royal priest of God and a royal ambassador of the Kingdom of heaven. You now function in the kingdom of heaven for the kingdom. You are accepted of God and are the fullness of the risen and exalted Lord, Christ Jesus manifested in you to the glory of God the Father. You can now without fear, intercede for the whole world and all whom thou may choose and God will hear and accept your supplications. You have now embraced your Christ purpose, the second attribute of your package of salvation; so go ahead and live it unsparingly.

Prayer

Dear heavenly Father, I thank you for anointing me as your high priest in the Name of Jesus, called to do thy will in all things and bring you honour and glory on earth and in heaven. I now live and walk in the full consciousness that I am an anointed royal priest and ambassador of the kingdom of God. Thank you LORD for this great honour and I gladly live it that I may show forth thy praise in Christ Jesus, in Jesus Name. Amen.

(i) Born into an Everlasting Royal Family

'' _Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God: therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. ....and it doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when he shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is.'' 1John3vrs1-2_

The moment you receive Jesus Christ into your heart and proclaim him Lord of your life, you are automatically separated from the world family into the heavenly family. The fundamental differences between these two families are that, the world family, consisting of all non born again Christians and peoples of your worldly culture and nation are bound by customs and values of men while the heavenly family is but a super race bound God's customs and values, the greatest of which is pure love. Secondly, the worldly family has parental instincts towards men while the heavenly family have parental instincts towards God. Concerning the heavenly family to which you belong now as a born again Christian, and the worldly family from whence you were propped out, the Holy Spirit declares through apostle Paul in 1Corinthians15vrs45 that, ''The first man Adam was made a living soul; the last Adam was made a quickened Spirit''. The first Adam is thus the man of the earth born from the dust and received God's breath to become a living soul while the second Adam whose embodiment you now are as a new creation is Christ Jesus, our Saviour and Master, who makes alive the Spirit. Therefore, now that you have received salvation, you are now born after the Spirit into an everlasting royal family. Your ties with your earthly family have been disengaged and your life is now concealed in the Lord of all hosts, Jesus Christ Colosians3vrs3-4; and in this new everlasting family, to which you now belong, there is neither Greek nor Jew and the privileges you are called to enjoy are innumerable. These include, as we have earlier on indicated, unlimited access to the throne room of God to make your petitions or honour God, retaining of the family name, unmitigated protection and unlimited access to the family inheritance. Everything that God has now belongs to you! But many Christians haven't yet come to the understanding of these truths. They are still ashamed or should we say, ignorant of all these vast privileges and this great life as children of God. Instead, they choose to identify themselves with the men of the world. How unfortunate indeed. Perhaps you are one of such people, and if so, I would like to say to you, hey, cheer up and come with me a little deeper into the life of a royal family and understand for yourself what a great inheritance belongs to you as a child of God. Think about it for a moment; how the royal family of this world lives; the Queens, the Kings, the Princes and Princesses. If you never heard about it or read it somewhere, watch one of those fascinating Nigerian movies or simply grab your Bible now and go straight to 1Kings and read the account of King Solomon from chapter 10 to 11vrs1-29 and observe how he lived. Yes, that's the typical royal family whose kids live in splendour and unspeakable glory. They command the finest mansions and suites, and lands and everything else that can be named. Their presence and voice command unparalleled attention wherever they go and whenever they speak. Their treasures are the most precious. They have servants to do all the work for them and they enjoy whatever they need to enjoy whenever they want. They are properly catered for in terms of security and any other necessity. These would be your present day Presidential families who when they are passing by all other cars stop to give them the rights of passage; and when they step out of the car, every individual screams and scrambles to have a photo pose with. When they speak, even if they speak nonsense, someone claps hands and cheer them on like little girls given chocolate sweets by a clown. Yes, the whole city stands still at their presence and the whole nation hush at their word. They have the power and all they desire in their lives is just but a phone button dial away. They are called the royal families of the world, identified with the first Adam. Unfortunately however, their glory , sooner or later, fades into nothingness. But yours as a child of God, which is better and more excellent than all theirs combined, last forever. Yes, being recreated after the second Adam, the Lord from heaven Jesus Christ, you are called to live as a King and Prince or Queen and Princess. You are called to walk in glory and honour; to enjoy unspeakable opulence and posses an eternal precious treasure. You are become God's special child born with a special inheritance which none of the greats of the world can ever enjoy. In fact, all of what the world possesses becomes yours the moment you are born again for the Holy Spirit assures he will give it unto you, Psalms2vrs8.

You are escorted twenty four hours a day and three hundred and sixty five days a year by myriads and myriads of angels who minister unto you in all needs and wants just as the servants of the world attends to their earthly royal families. You command attention and honours wherever you go because the grace of your Father God bestows upon you unspeakable favour and honour with all you come in contact with. You have become a member of a house hold that knows not such a thing as suffering, worry, anxiety, sickness, lack, failure, and defeat; a superior race and a new kind of men destined to Judge Satan and all his little devils. This is the true life that you and every other born again Christian is entitled to live, it's a birth right and therefore there is no need to neglect enjoying it. Perhaps you have been thinking and living the ordinary worldly family life which caused many of the people around you to look down upon you and at your faith as one of those worldly religions which only helps in no other way than to make people docile and submissive, for an outdated and phoney life, think twice and start to live the real life that belongs to you. You are the King of glory's kid; you are God's most beloved child and he doesn't delight in seeing you living on the edge. Neither does he desire to see you becoming another religious person blinded from the truth by the traditions of men but he wants to have an intimate relationship with you as Father and son or daughter (Hebrews2vrs10), and close friend (John15vrs14) in true love, trust and honest. You are a royal child, therefore get hold of all your royal privileges in Christ Jesus and begin to enjoy them. You are now in his presence where there is fullness of joy and at his right hand where there are pleasures evermore, Psalms16-11.

Confession

I am a blessed child of God. I belong to a heavenly royal family that lasts forever in Jesus Name. I have an inheritance hid in Christ Jesus which lasts forever and is more excellent than that of the royal kids of this world. I belong to the house hold of God now, being born after the second Adam and have passed on from death to life and shall reign forever with my Lord and my Father the Lord of all hosts. I am favoured and honoured in every place because the grace and favour of my favour rests upon me abundantly.

(j) Called into Everlasting Fellowship with Deity

'' _That which we have seen and heard declare we unto you, that ye also may have fellowship with us: and truly our fellowship is with the Father, and with his Son Jesus Christ.'' 1John1vrs3_

'' _For in him we live, and have our being....for we are also his offspring''. Acts17vrs28_

As a fitting climax to this chapter, our last attribute or part to the package of salvation is the privilege of being received into a true everlasting fellowship with Deity-the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. After the Fall Genesis3, men became enemies of Deity. He lived out of God's life and was at war with him, being subject or sons of the devil. The fellowship became sour and the days of the first Adam and all his seed were reduced to less than a day-less than one thousand from eternity. He was allowed to live as he please of course but out of God's will and under Satan, which is the present state of the unbeliever. Again, he was, as is every unbeliever, an anti-Christ and an enemy of Deity. He lived, moved and had his being out of God's will but had not peace, joy, happiness and an inheritance because they were and are all hid in Christ Jesus. Thus, every unbeliever is still an anti-Christ regardless of the fact that Christ died for the whole world. as long as they haven't received Christ and get born again, they are still enemies of Deity, a lost people without an inheritance and would never no matter how they try to hoard things, experience true love, peace, joy, success and happiness. They remain an unrighteous people, condemned and destined for destruction for their failure to appreciate and receive the grace of God who humbled himself so much as to be born of his own creation, live among men and die for him as a way to reconcile him, his beloved creation to himself from the devil. So if you are already born again, you are thus the righteousness of God now, and his beloved child who enjoys an intimate fellowship with Deity, a fellowship that has no end. Your life is hid in deity in which you have all your needs met and where you have an eternal inheritance. You are thus the fulfilment of our opening scripture and truly, there is nothing so special and precious in life than living and moving-having your whole being in God through Christ Jesus. You experience inexplicable love, joy, peace, success and fulfilment in your waking and your sleeping moments as the Holy Spirit showers you constantly and consistently with the fullness of God. Let us therefore briefly identify our Deity that you may have a clean fellowship not tantamount to idolatry.

Who is God?

According to the Holy Bible, which is the only reliable scripture and source of revelation in existence, able to give a clear and satisfactory expose on all subjects, God is the Creator of all things. In Gnesis1vrs1, the Holy Spirit testifies that, God is the creator of ''the heavens and the earth'', the maker of the whole universe. In Acts14vrs15, he testified also through Apostle Paul saying, he is ''the living God, which made heaven and earth, and all things that are therein:'' Take here, the scripture clearly said 'all things' not some things. That includes you and I for he is the one that made and formed us in the womb of our mother, Isaiah44vrs2; the creator of the spirit of man, Zechariah12vrs1. We get our biological features from our parents but the spirit of life in us is made by God who is himself Spirit, Genesis1vrs2. Thus the whole truth here is this that, God is our real Father. Our biological parents are just but chosen vessels through which God fulfils his purpose of multiplying his sons and daughters. This same God is LORD, Jeremiah10vrs1; and Jehovah, Exodus6vrs3, who fills the whole Universe with his glory and in him we live, and move and have our being as his offspring, Acts17vrs28.

Who is Jesus?

A lot of assumptions have perforated the world concerning who Jesus really is. Some believe he is one of the ancient prophets resurrected to life John7vrs40-41, Matthew9vrs19, while others believe he is one among the so-called many saviours who are sent to enlighten and save mankind from various trials of this world. Some believe also that he is just but another ordinary man like everyone else and so they have absolutely nothing to do with him Matthew9vrs19. But the truth and nothing but the whole truth is this that Jesus is the Christ, John7vrs26, 4vrs42. While baptising in the river Jordan, for he was send by God and was believed by all to be a prophet, John bare witness of Jesus saying, ''I am not the Christ, but that I am sent before him'' 3vrs28, which clearly points out that the man who would come after him in the name of the LORD of hosts would be the Christ and that man which came in those days proved to be none other than Jesus of Nazareth. In Matthew9vrs19 and John6vrs69, the Holy Spirit also bare witness that Jesus is ''the Christ of God''; Son of the living God; the LORD of all hosts Jehovah. John20vrs31. He is the son of God send from heaven by God himself that through him men might be saved John3vrs17. To further solidify this whole truth that Jesus is but the living son of God, living because he is alive today, God testified to mankind through his Spirit when it descended and rested on Jesus, John1vrs32, God himself having given instructions to John that, ''upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and remaining, on him, the same is he which baptize with the Holy Ghost'' and by prophecy, only Christ, the son of God would baptize by the Holy Spirit. Another piece of testimony was the transfiguration at the mount where Jesus went with Peter, James and John and the LORD Spake saying, ''this is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased'', Matthew17vrs5. So many may live in denial of truth, going head long to condemnation on the day of judgement which is just about the corner, but Jesus of Nazareth is the Christ.

Who is the Holy Spirit?

The Holy Spirit is the life of God. It is the living and dynamic operative power of the Creator through which he functions and sustains all things in the whole universe. The same is the Holy Ghost, Acts1vrs8, and the third person of Deity Matthew28vrs19. By him, God manifests himself in the whole of creation. l when Moses led the children of Israel out of Egypt, this is the Spirit that was at work in their midst as a pillar of fire by night and a pillar of cloud by day. Back then, he operated or manifested the glory of God directly from heaven but today this Spirit lives in men, Acts1vrs8. This is him of whom the master, our Lord Jesus said, ''And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you forever; Even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you and shall be in you'', John14vrs17. It is very important to note here that the world which cannot receive the Holy Ghost and see him not refers to the unbelievers and none born again masses and those who can see and know him are the believers, those who are born after him, in whom he abides and with whom he abides, John3vrs5-6. Having therefore this knowledge, worship not any angel, nor sun, nor the moon, nor the cow, nor the stars, nor the mermaids, nor the trees, nor the dead, nor the ram nor the goat, nor anything else named in all heavens, in all the earth nor under the whole earth, but worship God only in Christ Jesus and is the Holy Spirit.

Chapter 4: How to Attain Salvation

'' _For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation.'' Romans10vrs10_

The First Step to Salvation is faith in Christ Jesus as the Lord and Saviour of the world. This doesn't imply to simply saying, yea I've heard he is the saviour and Lord of all creation so I believe in him. While it is right to believe by hearing others testifying about Jesus, it is very important that you personally take it upon yourself to get to know the Lord Jesus as the true Son of God and saviour of the whole world by studying the word of God. While as the word of mouth from others can witness unto you, it cannot alone convict your spirit unto righteousness because your understanding remains shallow. The Holy Spirit while ministering unto us all through Apostle Paul said in 1Timothy2vrs15, ''Study to shew thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.'' Showing oneself approved unto God means reaching rightness with God at heart-believing without wavering, and true rightness, the kind that can manifest the glory of God in your life comes through searching the scriptures and getting to understand the word of Jesus, the message that he spake-taught and why he really came to the world. In John10vrs10, the master himself said, ''I am come that they might have life, and that they may have it more abundantly.'' This mission he fulfilled by laying down his life for us. He died that we might live; he lost everything that we might have everything and these benefits of his iconic sacrifice are vast in nature, some of which we have identified as the attributes of salvation, which we discussed in chapter 3; and until you come to understand fully the significance of his life purpose and identify yourself in it, you may believe in him but you will remain at large of rightness with God. Remember God doesn't consider our outward appearances or our lip service and imitative acts of worship, he searches the heart to see whether it's really convicted unto him or not. So you might have heard about him and believed which is right, but study the word to show thyself approved of God. Prove that you know him and believe in him because you really understand what he means to you. This is the only key to achieving the degree of rightness with God.

The second step, having believed in the Lord Jesus as the Son of God and Saviour of your life and the whole world is to sanctify your faith in him by confessing your faith in the Lord. This is a vital prerequisite that you cannot do without. Many believers fall short in fully experiencing their salvation because they neglect confessing it yet the Holy Spirit clearly testified through Apostle Paul that this is the lan-vital to salvation. He ministered in Romans10vrs9-10 saying, ''.. if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shall believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be save. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation.'' Notice here that the believing which makes you right with God comes first and the confession which catapults you to salvation-the experiencing of the fullness of God comes next. So having achieved rightness by believing in the Jesus Christ through studying and understand the word and then locate yourself in it, the next step you take now is to sanctify your rightness with God in faith by confessing what you believe-that Jesus is your redeemer and saviour, the Lord of your life and was raised by God from the dead unto your salvation. This means being born again and it is as simple as praying the following prayer if you are not yet born again or you are not sure whether you are really born again or not.

Prayer of Salvation

"O LORD God JEHOVAH, Creator of the whole Universe and all that is in it, I commit into your able hands my life in the Name of the Lord Jesus. Save me according to your counsel and lead me in the path of life and righteousness by your grace in Christ that in you I may live and labour in the kingdom and for the kingdom of heaven to your glory and honour. Amen."

By faith, you can now be rest assured that God has heard and saved you by his grace in Christ Jesus whom you have just made Lord of your life for his arm is not short that it cannot save. The vital thing here is to open the door of your heart to his grace in Christ as you have just done for salvation comes through grace. All you need to do now is to locate a Church near you where born again believers gather in fellowship and go there, become a member and receive baptism of water as a way of signing out forever from death-world of wickedness unto life in Christ Jesus-kingdom of heaven. Then begin your journey of spiritual growth by attending and participating in Church services and activities regularly as well as studying the scriptures constantly and consistently which is as simple as buying a copy of the Holy Bible and choosing a Bible reading plan that is convenient for you enclosed in the Bible.

You third and final step unto salvation is locating God's purpose for your life in Christ Jesus. One of the most vital benefits of salvation is this that, when you are born again God unveils unto your understanding your real life purpose. You might have tried many things which worked not nor wandered for an hundred years but when you give you life to Christ, be rest assured that your life will never be the same again because the Lord came to give your life a meaning. According to Ephesians1vrs11 (MSG), ''It is in Christ that we find out who we are and what we are living for. Long before we first of Christ,...he had his eyes on us, had designs on us for glorious living, part of the overall purpose he is working out in everything and everyone''. Yes, God knew about you before you came on the scene for he is the one that designed you and designed also a path by which you would live a glorious life for his glory and honour. But until you discover that purpose and locate yourself in it, your life will remains a stump-a life committed to the mere acquisition of things which at the end of the rat race, will not bring you enduring satisfaction-fulfilment. By observation, we know of people who spend the rest of their lives chasing after things but have never yet gotten satisfaction, peace and happiness regardless of the fact that they literally own the whole world of things. The Bible actually stresses that ''A life devoted to things is a dead life, a stump'' Proverbs11vrs28. Yes, you may have all the things which you dreamt of all your life but without in-depth knowledge of why God placed you here on planet earth, you are a mere drifter, wandering aimlessly towards death. True meaningful existence begins at that inspiring moment when you discover your purpose for living in Christ, stop drifting and begin to fulfil it; and now that you have given your life to Christ, your life purpose is to take this message of salvation to the ends of the world. The Lord Jesus Christ is ministering unto you through the Holy Spirit right now as he ministered unto Apostle Paul saying, ''..rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness both of these things which thou has seen, and of those things in the which I will appear unto thee. Delivering thee from the people, and from Gentiles, unto whom now I send thee, To open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith in me.'' Acts 26vrs16-18. Yes, this is your real life purpose in Christ Jesus to the glory of Jehovah Almighty God. The world is crying and hurting and needs a saviour born of God in Christ and you are the one they are waiting for. Study the word diligently as you fellowship with others that you may prove a worthy workmanship of God that divide the word of truth rightly before all whom the Lord has chosen for you. It might not yet appear at the beginning how you really ought to participate in spreading the gospel but don't despair because as you keep on studying the word and fellowshipping with Deity, the Lord will make manifest a perfect course for you and how you ought to walk it to his glory and honour. As you study the word meditatively, make confessions and declarations on what the word says about you. Pick a scripture and personalize it, then make your affirmations upon it and it will compel you to do what you ought to do to minister in the house of God. The first step you may consider now is to do whatever you shall do from now on to the glory of God even if it's serving someone a glass of water. Then go on and participate in your local congregation as doing service to the lord by committing your talents to the furtherance of the gospel or edification of the Church. Pay your tithes and offerings and participate if you are able financially in all outreach programmes that are organised by your local Church. You may as well go ahead and begin a Church in your area if there is none existing at the moment. Go back also and pray meditatively on the royal priestly prayer in our title on (h) 'Called to be a High Priest of God', personalising it and the Lord will surely manifest himself unto you. Until we meet again, may the glory of God in Christ Jesus rise to meet you; and in all things pertaining unto your new found life and godliness, I commend you to the grace and love of our Lord and master Jesus Christ in God who was, is and shall forever be Amen.

### The End

Thank you for reading this book. I trust you were richly blessed by the message and have immensely benefited, and if so, would you mind take a moment to share the message with family and friends and encourage them to get their own copies at any authorized retailer that they may be blessed too. 'This is the bread of heaven, feast on it unsparingly all thy days', and drop a comment at your nearest retailer if you don't mind.

Humbly,

Crosswell Goko

Inspirational/Motivational Speaker, Author and Life Coach

Connect with him on

Twitter https://www.twitter.com/servantsofrighteousnessdirect

Facebook http://www.facebook.com/servantsofrighteousnessdirect

## All books are also available on https://www.smashwords.com/profile/view/PeaceangelGCrosswells

## Other Titles by Author;

1. **Ultimate Key to Greatness:** The Secret to Having it All in Life.

2. **Reign I Life:** Ultimate Key To Greatness Compendium.

**3. The Counsels Bible (** _End of World Prophecy)_

**4. Go Great:** Practical Steps to Outrageous Self Empowerment

**5. Seal Of Life:** Your Sacred Key to Freedom of Mind, Body, Spirit and Soul ( _forthcoming_ )

## Recommended Books

## **Rhapsody of Realities** by Pastor Chris&Anita Oyakhilome

## **The Purpose Driven Life** by Rick Warren

## **The Holy Bible** (KJV)

### The Wisdom Quick Scan Bible

