

Angelo & Maria an Italian American Love Story / Episode Nine / Scopa; The Cermak Hit for Smashwords

Table of Contents

Introduction

The Set Up

Episode Nine – Scopa /The Cermak Hit

The story is based upon an actual event, the execution of Giuseppe Zangara.

Bonus Features

D's Guide to Italian Card Games Scopa and Quindici.

Scopa means to sweep. Quindici means 15 (in Italian). Quindici is a variation of Scopa.

Keeping Score

The Final Hand of the Game

Scopa Blindness

Scopa Traps

Offensive Play

Last Hand of the Game

Quindici

Angelo's Bar Bets

This Bar Bet was a famous swindle of a 1930's con man who shall go nameless here. I doubt he was the guy who came up with the swindle but from what I was able to learn about him, he had no problem pulling it on suckers.

Old School Sports Bet

I'll bet you can't tell me what Former newspaper boy, born in Campania, Italy, came to America when he was a kid. In 1919 he was a 14-year-old newspaper boy. A tough southpaw, he had to wait until 1933 for a world welterweight title shot. He won the World Welterweight and Middleweight Titles boxing as Young Corbett III.

About the Author

Other Books by D. Angelo Ferri

Introduction

For me this is merely a glimpse into the minds, the premeditation, and absolute ruthlessness of the 'people' who pull the strings of the puppets who hold public office.

I am a second generation Italian American. I grew up in New York in the 1950's and 60's. Back then I was aware of two types of people, Italians and people who weren't Italian. The fact that I was born in America had absolutely nothing to with it. More specifically I am half Neapolitan and half Sicilian.

Sunday's were my favorite day of the week because the entire family gathered at my grandparent's apartment. After dinner there were fresh fruits, hot chestnuts, cake, pastry, American coffee, and some type of after dinner drink, usually Anisette, to go with the Espresso.

After that it was time to play cards. My grandfather sat at the head of the table. My uncles and my Aunt Lucy would take their customary places around the table. My cousins would stand behind their fathers or a favorite uncle and watch the games; how I loved those days.

I wanted to write stories about Italian American's. My stories are set in 1930 and '40's San Francisco, from the days of Prohibition, through the Great Depression, the beginning of World War Two and the Interment of Italians living in America. Many extraordinary things happened in the 30's and 40's, things that should never be forgotten. I began to research the execution of Giuseppe Zangara. Supposedly he was trying to kill President Elect Franklin D. Roosevelt (FDR). That research resulted in the story you are about to read: 'Scopa'.

Scopa means to sweep. I chose this title because to me this is a perfect example of the truth being swept under the rug.

Thanks to the Freedom of Information Act and the passage of time I was able to read former Classified Documents and Doctors Reports. I found old film clips and newspaper stories.

Being able to look back on what the people was told versus what actually happened is an extraordinary thing. Makes me think...

D. Angelo Ferri

The Set Up

It is a Sunday afternoon, 1933, in San Francisco's North Beach neighborhood. My detective: Angelo Di Carini and his father sit down to play cards after dinner. They begin to talk about would-be assassin Giuseppe Zangara, from Calabria, by way of New Jersey and Chicago.

Zangara was convicted of trying to assassinate FDR and sentenced to eighty plus years in prison. Giuseppe Zangara was executed on March 20th, just thirty-four days after the shooting, that's a record from capture, to trial, to sentence, to execution, that still stands.

The people and places Angelo and his father refer to in their conversation are the actual people and places I discovered in my research for this story. Their suppositions about this incident are based upon the media that was available to them at the time and their personal perspectives.

Of course; these are my suppositions of what they would have thought about all of this given Mr. Di Carini is a Sicilian and that he had family in Chicago and in New York from the 1920's on. My father's side of the family came to America from Castellammare del Golfo, Sicily in 1911. My great Uncle Vincent was the childhood friend of Joe Bananno. Uncle Vincent never got mixed up with the rackets but his brother, my great Uncle Jack (zio Giacomo) did. He left New York and went to Chicago and never came back. My father never talked about this with my brother and I when we were kids. When we got older and things came up, we learned about Uncle Jack.

The American People were told it was the attempted assassination of the then President Elect of the United States, Franklin Delano Roosevelt. The shooting occurred on February 15, 1933, at a political rally in Bayfront Park, Miami, Florida. The Mayor of Chicago, Anton Cermak, was also at the rally that night. To look at pictures of Roosevelt and Cermak together you would have thought they were asshole buddies from way back.

The Democratic Convention to decide who would get the Presidential Nomination had been held in Chicago. Cermak opposed the nomination of Roosevelt. (I could not find the details about what caused Cermak to play ball with FDR.)

Cermak was the guy who got shot that night. He died in the hospital several weeks later. Zangara was sent to the electric chair after Cermak died.

Americans were told Zangara was sent to the electric chair because one of the shots he fired at Roosevelt hit Cermak and that Cermak died as a result of that wound.

It is undisputed that Cermak did not die from the gunshot wound he suffered that night. Anton Cermak died in the hospital on March 6th. Supposedly some doctor, who I don't know, screwed up, how I don't know, and then tried to cover it up. Word is Cermak died of Peritonitis.

I think somebody finished the job on Cermak in the hospital but that's just me.

The public was told Giuseppe Zangara was nuts and that he acted alone. (That instantly reminded me of what we were told about Lee Harvey Oswald.) The newspaper's reported that Zangara bought a .32 revolver and used it to shoot at FDR. I've included some actual text and headlines from the New York Times in my story. Now picture this. Zangara is spraying bullets all over the place. People are going nuts. Cermak has been shot.

Here is some of what the American people were told:

Roosevelt is in the back seat of his car. The Secret Service wants to get the President Elect of the United States the hell out of there. Roosevelt has his Secret Service guy stop the car, pick up Cermak and take him to the hospital. As Cermak was being driven to the hospital he told FDR: "I'm glad it was me Mr. President." In fact, that quote is engraved on one of the outside walls of Cermak's mausoleum.

The fact that Zangara used a .32 is undisputed.

The fact that the .32 held five bullets and the police recovered seven bullets is also undisputed.

There is ballistic evidence in formally Classified FBI Files that proves Cermak was shot with a .45 not a .32.

Allegedly, the attorneys representing Zangara urged him to appeal the sentence of execution because the fact that Cermak did not die as a result of the gunshot wound became public knowledge. I was able to find more than one source confirming that.

However; Zangara refused (to have his conviction of the murder of Cermak appealed) and he went to the chair defiant and unrepentant.

In addition to writing, I am a professional Magician. We magicians must control perception if we are going to deceive you, and sometimes we do that by giving you something else to look at, something that arrests your attention so completely, you will not see what we don't want you to see. One name for this is Misdirection. Now I don't know about you but I think some guy spraying bullets all around the place is pretty good misdirection.

I found a few videos of the incident on YouTube. It was very crowded in the park that night. Zangara starts shooting; people realize shots are being fired and things go crazy in a hurry.

It is not difficult for me to imagine someone waiting for all hell to brake loose so he could shoot Cermak at close range.

There was an infamous Chicago Wise guy who had a very personal reason for wanting Cermak dead.

You will learn about that guy and why he wanted Cermak dead 'from Angelo as he tells his father' about an incident that he (Angelo) thinks provoked the shooting.

The incident Angelo refers to actually did occur.

I found some videos (on YouTube) of interviews with Zangara in his jail cell. If you watch them; listen to the questions he is asked and then listen to his answers. Hear for yourself how his answers are 'provoked' by the sheriff (the man asking the questions).

Another thing that got me was this; people were told, by Walter Winchell (on his radio show, a show that was listened to by two thirds of the adult population of America at that time) and in the press, that Zangara suffered with medical problems. Winchell told the American people that Zangara was in Florida living on his savings. He, Zangara, overheard a conversation about FDR coming to town and that's when he bought the .32.

Walter Winchell just happened to be in Miami the night of the shooting.

It is rumored Winchell said, privately, that Zangara wasn't a presidential assassin; he was a hit man for the Chicago mob who had been sent to shoot Cermak.

Many people agreed with Winchell because Cermak was a reform mayor, a dedicated anti-Prohibitionist, with enemies in the underworld. (Organized Crime loved Prohibition.) Well that may be what Winchell told 'insiders' but that's not what he said on his hugely popular radio program.

Winchell managed to have an exclusive interview with Zangara in his jail cell immediately after the assassination attempt. The story is Winchell was able to get access to Zangara because he told the sheriff that he, Winchell, would print the sheriffs' name all over the world.

On his radio show Winchell told his listeners Zangara's motives were attributed to a terrible burning pain in his stomach. Zangara thought that if he killed an important man the police would kill him and his pain and torture would be ended.

It is important to note that at this time the population of America was about 127,000,000, of which 75,000,000 were adults. Of those 75,000,000 adults 50,000,000 of them were regular listeners of Winchell's radio program.

Another thing, Prohibition made millions of dollars for guys involved in bootlegging. If Prohibition is abolished and liquor is legal again, then those guys lose a big income stream... right?

On March 22, 1933, FDR signed the Beer and Wine Revenue Act, a death blow to Prohibition. The Act side stepped the Constitution and partially legalized alcohol consumption in the US subject to government regulations and taxes. Then, in December, the 18th amendment was repealed. Drinking was legal again.

OK, now think about this. The stock market tanks in 1929 and here comes The Great Depression. The election of Roosevelt means a whole new setup of political power. The Democrats' are on top thanks to new voting coalitions of the rural south and the industrialized north. The Republican Party's sixty plus year control is history. To the Republicans this means the whacking out of laissez-faire economics in favor of state regulation.

Roosevelt is elected in November 1932, three years into the Great Depression. Thousands of banks have crashed; millions of people have lost their savings and are out of work.

The Senate investigates Wall Street and according to them, Wall Street wise guys pulled money out hoping prices would drop so they could go back in and buy low. Wall Street wise guys could buy securities at a way lower price than the guy on the street and they were making crazy money while everyday people were hurting.

The Securities Acts of 1933 and 1934 proposed Federal supervision of securities traded over state boundaries, and established the Securities and Exchange Commission empowered to enforce the regulations. The commission was going to look at insider trading, bear raiding, and stock manipulation.

Companies selling stocks would have to reveal their financial histories to the public. Roosevelt had to pick a Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. He chose Joseph Kennedy, yeah JFK's pop.

Some say Roosevelt told insiders: "I'll set a thief to catch a thief".

Joseph Kennedy joined the stock brokerage firm of Hayden, Stone & Company in 1919. He used tactics that are now known as 'insider trading and market manipulation' to make a hell of a lot of money. In 1923 Kennedy set up his own investment company and became a multi-millionaire during the bull market of the 1920's. A Bull Market is when investors are feeling confident and buy because they believe they will make money. Then Kennedy gets even richer by taking "short" positions in 1929. A guy selling short hopes to make money from a decline in the price of an asset.

OK; you are a Wall Street Wise Guy. Dowee, Screw-um & How is selling at $100.00 a share. A short seller borrows 1000 shares of Dowee, Screw-um & How and immediately sells them for $100.00 a share. That's $100,000.

The price of the stock goes down to $60.00 a share. The short seller buys the stocks back for $60,000.00 from the poor bastard he sold them to in the first place, with the poor bastard's own money.

The short seller pockets $40,000.00 less the fees he pays Dowee, Screw-um & How for loaning him the stocks to get this racket rolling.

If the price of Dowee, Screw-um & How goes up, after the short sale, say to $125.00 a share, then the short seller has to buy back the shares at $125.00 per. That's $125,000. The short seller is out $25,000 plus the borrowing fees to Dowee, Screw-um & How. So if I'm Dowee, Screw-um & How I know I get my borrowing fees one way or the other.

If I'm a Short Seller with inside information, I make $40,000.00 less the fees without having to put up a dime, all I need is some sucker to sell this stuff to in the first place.

Or, maybe, I'm Dowee, Screw-um & How. Everybody thinks my company is doing swell. I know we are going into the tank. So I call up Joe and tell him I need to talk to him. Joe knows he gets a percentage of the sale. I say listen Joe, you do this for me and we forget the 'borrowing fees'. He unloads a truck load of my stock, he makes money, I get more money for my stock than it is actually worth, and the poor bastard that put up the money; well that's what he gets for thinking he was an inside-player, better luck next time.

This sounds a lot like a con game to me. You know Dowee, Screw-um & How is going down. The sucker you sell the stock to thinks it's going up... that's not investing; that's a rigged game, a swindle.

During World War One, Kennedy was an assistant general manager at Bethlehem Steel. That's when he got to know FDR who, at that time was the Assistant Secretary of the Navy.

In 1932 Kennedy goes to England and his company Somerset Importers; becomes the exclusive American agent of Gordon's Gin and Dewer's Scotch. So in my mind I'm seeing the Roosevelt / Kennedy meet go this way. "Listen Joey I need you to go after those guys on Wall Street, you know the game; you know where the skeletons are buried."

OK Frankie, let's say I do, why do I want to play ball with you?"

"Listen Joey you and I both know you made a killing in the market and then you got out. So what are you going to do now? I'm on the fast track to the White House. When I get in I'm killing Prohibition. I'll tax all the booze you and your crew are gonna sell. Joey... people have been getting loaded since day one, you know that. You are gonna make a boat load of money and it's all legit."

In 1934 the rumor was a Senate Investigation of the munitions industry was right around the corner. The DuPont's were the number one armament producers in the world. They made huge profits during the Civil War and the War of 1812.

If the Senate looks at these guys too hard and the public buys what the Senate is selling, it means more public support for what Roosevelt wants to do. I'm telling you this stuff because there are some people who say it was DuPont money that set up the hit on FDR.

Maybe the Chicago Outfit goes to the DuPont Outfit and says: "Look we got a problem with this guy Cermak. You got a problem with this guy Roosevelt. We're going to clip Cermak and you might want to think about doing the same thing to your guy. He's going to end Prohibition; that hurts us. He's going to get the Senate to investigate you guys; that hurts you. He's got the people thinking he craps ice cream. If this keeps up; him and his crew are in for a long sweet ride, we're out and you're out. So what do you say?"

Maybe the DuPont Crew goes to the Chicago crew and pitches the same deal to them?

Supposedly the United States economy starts to recover in 1933 but it does not make it back to the 1929 GNP and by 1940 the unemployment rate is about 15%.

Germany, Italy and Japan sign the Axis Agreement in 1940 and part of that deal was an attack on one of them would be considered an attack on all of them.

The DuPont Crew loves the hell out of this. Maybe they tell FDR "Listen Frankie, it's gonna be swell. You are gonna put all kinds of people back to work and when this whole thing shakes out you and your crew are gonna be on top for a long time. Trust us; this ain't out first time to the rodeo."

FDR wants America to get into the war but he needs a way in, a way that not only makes him look good but leaves him with no choice. So what does he do? Did you ever hear of the McCollum Memo? (Also known as the Eight Action Memo. You can find it on line. It was authored on October 7th, 1940; one year before the Pearl Harbor Attack.

It was prepared by Commander Arthur H. McCollum. The Commander provided the President with intelligence reports on Japan. He, McCollum, also oversaw every intercepted and decoded Japanese military and diplomatic report destined for the White House. He was the Office of Naval Intelligence's Director of the Far East Section. The Office of Naval Intelligence (ONI) was established in the United States Navy in 1882.

The ONI was established to "seek out and report" on the advancements in other nations' navies. ONI is the oldest member of the United States Intelligence Community, and is also the senior intelligence agency within the armed forces.

The memo outlined the situation of several nations in World War II and recommended an eight-part course of action for America to take in regards to Japan in the South Pacific, suggesting that the United States provoke Japan into committing an "overt act of war".

Here's a taste. "It is not believed that in the present state of political opinion the United States government is capable of declaring war against Japan without more ado [...] If by [the elucidated eight-point plan] Japan could be led to commit an overt act of war, so much the better."

Did you know that on the night of November 11th, 1940 the Royal Navy launched the first naval / aircraft attack in history?

Their target was the Italian Fleet harbored in Taranto. Twenty-one Fairey Swordfish torpedo bombers (bi-planes) took off from the carrier HMS Illustrious. They sank or disabled three Italian battleships and a heavy cruiser lying at anchor.

Guess who studied that attack? Have you ever heard of Isoroku Yamamoto? He was the Japanese Naval Officer that was a major player in setting up the attack on Pearl Harbor. You gonna tell me he knew about the successful attack and FDR didn't? Christ Churchill warned Roosevelt that the same thing could happen at Pearl Harbor.

I believe there is an incredible amount of evidence available to us now that proves FDR followed the advice of his military advisors. They set up Pearl Harbor like a clay pigeon so FDR could say to America: "Hey listen I was trying to play ball with these Japanese guys and what do they do? They go ahead and attack us! What the hell am I supposed to do now, roll over?"

One thing for sure; FDR wasn't going to be at Pearl Harbor the day 2000 plus regular guys got all blown to hell.

All of this stuff reminds me of the Kennedy Assassination. A crazy guy who acted alone and then gets whacked out while in Police Custody by some connected guy. Both of these things have mob connections, Chicago connections, and Political Connections. Johnson gets into office and escalates the war in Vietnam, the munitions industry makes tons of money and everyday guys get all chopped up to hell.

I poked around some more and found another very interesting story. According to this guy; the Federal Reserve Bank prints all of the money used in the United States.

This money is backed by T-Bills. The Federal Reserve Bank loans money to the United States Government and the Federal Taxes we pay are paid directly to the Federal Reserve Bank. The taxpayers are paying off the loan.

Now get this, on June 4th, 1963 Kennedy signed Executive Order No. 11110.

Executive Order No. 11110 gave back the government the power to issue currency without going through the Federal Reserve.

So Kennedy is on his way to putting the Federal Reserve Bank of New York out of business because if enough silver certificates get into circulation they cut into or wipe out demand for Federal Reserve notes.

The idea was people would go for the silver certificates because they were backed by silver and the Federal Reserve Notes were backed by squat and now the Federal Government doesn't have to go to the Federal Reserve, borrow money and pay interest.

So the Federal Reserve wise guys have Kennedy waxed. Johnson takes over as President, and within five months, Federal Reserve Notes are the only game in town.

I mention this because another theory is the attempt on Roosevelt's life happened for the same sort of reasons. A crew of very rich industrialists and bankers worried that Roosevelt would conduct a massive redistribution of wealth.

This crew included: Irene Du Pont founder of the American Liberty League. The organization that set up the hit, the 'assassination attempt' happened at an American Legion Nighttime Rally.

Grayson Murphy: The Director of Goodyear, Bethlehem Steel and a group of J.P. Morgan Banks.

William Doyle: a former state commander of the American Legion.

John Davis: former Democratic presidential candidate and a senior attorney for J.P. Morgan.

Al Smith: former governor of New York and a co-director of the American Liberty League.

John J. Raskob: A Du Pont officer and a former chairman of the Democratic Party.

The money would be funneled through the American Liberty League funded by Du Pont and Morgan, US Steel, General Motors, Chase Manhattan Bank, Standard Oil, Goodyear, the Du Pont family, and other rich wise guys.

The group approaches former Marine General Smedley Butler, a big time American war hero, to talk to Roosevelt, tell him what he has to do or this is what's gonna happen.

Butler doesn't go for it and starts giving speeches around the country about the Du Pont crew. This is the best quote I found, attributed to Butler's speech: War Is a Racket.

"War is a racket. It always has been. It is possibly the oldest, easily the most profitable, surely the most vicious. It is the only one international in scope. It is the only one in which the profits are reckoned in dollars and the losses in lives. A racket is best described, I believe, as something that is not what it seems to the majority of the people. Only a small 'inside' group knows what it is about. It is conducted for the benefit of the very few, at the expense of the very many. Out of war a few people make huge fortunes."

Another famous Butler quote: "I spent 33 years and four months in active military service and during that period I spent most of my time as a high class muscle man for Big Business, for Wall Street and the bankers. In short, I was a racketeer, a gangster for capitalism. I helped make Mexico and especially Tampico safe for American oil interests in 1914. I helped make Haiti and Cuba a decent place for the National City Bank boys to collect revenues in.

I helped in the raping of half a dozen Central American republics for the benefit of Wall Street. I helped to purify Nicaragua for the International Banking House of Brown Brothers in 1902-1912. I brought light to the Angeloan Republic for the American sugar interests in 1916. I helped make Honduras right for the American fruit companies in 1903.

In China in 1927 I helped see to it that Standard Oil went on its way unmolested. Looking back on it, I might have given Al Capone a few hints. The best he could do was to operate his racket in three districts. I operated on three continents."

I like to think FDR got wind of what these guys were up to. Chicago comes to him and tells him they are gonna take out Cermak but don't worry because you got Kelly in the wings and he's an even bigger New Dealer than Cermak.

FDR says OK but this has got to happen on American Legion territory. People have to think someone was trying to kill me. That will make me look good and it will make the American Liberty crew think twice.

Reading the quotes from Butler reminded me of President Eisenhower's 1961 Military Industrial Complex Speech. Here is a bit of it. You can find it and the video of the speech on line.

"A vital element in keeping the peace is our military establishment. Our arms must be mighty, ready for instant action, so that no potential aggressor may be tempted to risk his own destruction.

Our military organization today bears little relation to that known by any of my predecessors in peacetime, or indeed by the fighting men of World War II or Korea.

Until the latest of our world conflicts, the United States had no armaments industry. American makers of plowshares could, with time and as required, make swords as well.

But now we can no longer risk emergency improvisation of national defense; we have been compelled to create a permanent armaments industry of vast proportions.

Added to this, three and a half million men and women are directly engaged in the defense establishment. We annually spend on military security more than the net income of all United States corporations.

This conjunction of an immense military establishment and a large arms industry is new in the American experience. The total influence -- economic, political, even spiritual -- is felt in every city, every State House, every office of the Federal Government.

We recognize the imperative need for this development. Yet we must not fail to comprehend its grave implications. Our toil, resources and livelihood are all involved; so is the very structure of our society.

In the councils of government, we must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence, whether sought or unsought, by the military industrial complex. The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced power exists and will persist.

We must never let the weight of this combination endanger our liberties or democratic processes. We should take nothing for granted. Only an alert and knowledgeable citizenry can compel the proper meshing of the huge industrial and military machinery of defense with our peaceful methods and goals, so that security and liberty may prosper together."

Now back to Zangara. He turns out to be a stand-up guy. By that I mean from everything I could find, he kept his mouth shut while he was in prison. He went along with all the bullshit press. You can find all sorts of pictures of him on the internet.

You'll see him being paraded around by law enforcement. There is even a picture of him sitting with a bunch of newspapers with headlines about him. When they put the hood on, right before they lit him up, he is reported to have said: "Viva Italia! Goodbye to all poor people everywhere!" His last words were "Push the button!"

From where I'm sitting, nothing has changed. It is tough as hell for everyday people to make ends meet but the Politicians and the Wall Street Wise guys are doing OK... and who goes to war and gets all chopped up to hell, not them.

The conversation between Angelo and his father takes places during a game of Scopa. Scopa is a game of cunning, planning, and foresight. The player who does not consider his cards, the cards on the table, and the cards held by his opponent, is not likely to win. This sounds a lot like a definition of politics to me.

OK, now imagine it is March 1933; a Sunday afternoon in North Beach, the 'Little Italy' of San Francisco. Angelo Di Carini and his father Bernardo play a game of Scopa after dinner. They begin to talk about the execution of Zangara.

Scopa / The Cermak Hit

SCOPA A CHI TOCCA? / Whose turn? TOCCA A ME / My turn? TOCCA A TE / Your turn.

Dinner was over. Mrs. Di Carini, her daughters and daughter in laws, the ones who weren't yelling at the kids; were setting up the table for cake and coffee. Angelo, his brothers, and brother in laws were outside having a smoke.

Mr. Di Carini slit open the last of the chestnuts with his pocket knife and dropped them on to the metal pan along with the others. His youngest son Angelo took a look around and sized things up.

"Come on papa let's have a game of Scopa before everybody comes back."

Mr. Di Carini smiled: "va bene."

The two men sit down at the kitchen table. Angelo's sister Rose puts the bowl of fruit on the table. Angelo shakes the playing cards out of their box and begins to shuffle them. Mrs. Di Carini smiles because Angelo and his father had not always gotten along so well, too much alike.

"Open or Closed papa?" "Open."

Mr. Di Carini preferred the open game. It meant each player's cards were visible to the other. The open game emphasizes strategy, foresight and calculated risk. Angelo dealt three cards face up to his father, three cards face up to himself and then four cards face up between them.

Mr. Di Carini said "They executed Zangara.

"Yes I know, I read about it. They played that poor little bastard like a fiddle."

Angelo shook his head. "Papa do you think Cermak told Roosevelt 'I'm glad it was me instead of you".

"What do you think Angelo?"

"I think it's somebody's bright idea about how to make that guy Cermak look good. Jesus did you see the newsreels of his funeral in Chicago? I thought the pope died. They paraded his casket down the street. Put it in the stadium. They even craved those words 'I'm glad it was me Mr. President' on his mausoleum."

Mr. Di Carini smiled. "Who was he?"

Angelo shrugged his shoulders. "He's the guy who sent those cops to hit Nitti. You remember that papa, last year; right before Christmas? Those cops raid Nitti's office on LaSalle Boulevard. They shot Nitti in the back, then that cop... what the hell was his name? Lang! He shoots himself so he can say it was self-defense. Nitti is the one who goes on trial for murder in February. Cermak set that whole thing up, he wanted Nitti out.

The other cop... Harry Miller, he testified that Lang got fifteen grand to wax Nitti and another cop who was there testified that Nitti was unarmed when Lang shot him. The trial ends. Nitti is not guilty of attempted murder. Those two cops; Miller and Lang get bounced off the force and fined $100.00. This was a vendetta papa"

"I didn't know that about Frank Nitti."

Game One

Mr. Di Carini turned his thoughts to the cards on the table. 'I have the King of Clubs, the Two of Diamonds and Queen of Spades. Angelo has the Ace of Hearts, the Jack of Spades and the Two of Hearts.

The Six of Spades, the Four of Clubs, the Jack of Hearts and the King of Hearts are on the table. I can take the Six and the Four with my King. If Angelo takes the Jack with his Jack, that leaves the Four of Clubs and the Six of Spades on the table. If Angelo plays his Ace then, he'll end up with the Two of Diamonds and The Two of Hearts. I'll be down two cards and he'll be up one Diamond. If I lead with the Two of Diamonds Angelo will take it with his Two of Hearts and the cards on the table will stay as they are.'

Mr. Di Carini made a few more calculations in his head then frowned.

Angelo smiled. "It doesn't matter what you play papa, you get the two Kings. I get the Jacks and the Twos."

A gleam shown in Mr. Di Carini's eyes. "Angelo, why was Cermak in Florida with Roosevelt?"

"Votes."

"Votes? What do you mean?"

"I talked to Brody about this...."

"Your friend in the police department?"

"Yeah and you know that guy. He follows politics like an Irish man".

Mr. Di Carini was confused. "He is Irish!"

Angelo smiled. "In 1927 the Republicans get Big Bill Thompson back in the mayor's office. Thompson said he was going to clean up Chicago, but everybody knows he takes money from Organized Crime. Gesù that name kills me, it's like politicians aren't a bunch of organized crooks... anyway...a long comes Cermak; an immigrant. His money comes from gambling. He knows how to talk, he knows how to organize and he builds a powerful political organization."

"Gambling?"

"Si papa, the numbers, the horses."

Mr. Di Carini shook his finger. "The day will come when the government takes the numbers and the horses for themselves."

Angelo shook his head in agreement with his fathers' prophecy. "There are more and more black people moving to Chicago. Cermak gets them to vote Democratic. Poles, Czechs, Ukrainians, Jews, Italians, Blacks, they all see something in this guy, like he's one of them, so they vote for him.

Hell papa; there are a lot more poor people than rich people. If Cermak gets all those people to vote Democratic then that's good for Roosevelt and the Democrats."

"But why would black people vote for Republicans?"

Angelo smiled. "That's what I asked Brody. What he told me made sense. Listen to this. Lincoln gets elected, the first Republican President and the first ever Republican Congress. Pro-slavery Democrats in the South see the handwriting on the wall.

They leave the Union and take their States with them. Now we have the Civil War. In 1862 Lincoln abolishes slavery.

In 1863, Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, ordering slaves to be freed. After the Civil War the Democrat's did everything they could to keep black people from voting."

"So Cermak was in Florida because he was a capo for Roosevelt?"

"Yes, exactly".

Mr. Di Carini took the King on the table, with his King then Angelo took the Jack of Hearts with his Jack of Spades. Mr. Di Carini threw in his Queen of Spades. Angelo played the Ace of Hearts. Mr. Di Carini frowned and tossed in his Two of Hearts. Angelo swept it up with his Two of Diamonds. The Six of Spades, Four of Clubs, Ace of Hearts, and Queen of Spades stayed put on the table. That was the first hand.

Angelo dealt the cards for the next hand. Three cards each.

"The papers said that four people were shot by Zangara, including Cermak. Roosevelt has the Secret Service stop his car so he can check on the people who got shot; he's cool as a cucumber, like he's got nothing to worry about. You are the next President of the United States. Bullets have been flying all over the place. Four people are shot. The Secret Service doesn't get you the hell out of there? It doesn't add up."

Mr. Di Carini shrugged his shoulders: "Well if you knew 'he is not here to shoot me' it is easy to be brave."

"What do you mean papa?"

"Angelo which card eats all the other cards?"

"The King."

"Eh..., the King eats the Jack. It's life Angelo, they sent a dead man to do a job."

"You know papa; the people that got shot were nowhere near Roosevelt. They were near Cermak."

Mr. Di Carini shrugged his shoulders. "Zangara wasn't there to kill Roosevelt."

Angelo smiled. "Si... Zangara's job was to create confusion. He starts shooting. People go nuts. Maybe he gets lucky with one of his shots but the real killer needs to get close to Cermak. That guy was close to Nitti, he knows he's coming back and Zangara is gonna take the fall.

Angelo's father nodded his head in agreement. "Zangara went to the electric chair because he had to go. He was forced to agree." They both thought about that for a minute.

"Imagine the stones on that guy."

Angelo dealt the second hand. Mr. Di Carini got the Four of Spades, the King of Hearts, and the King of Diamonds. Angelo got the Three of Hearts, Four of Hearts, and the Five of Spades.

Each of them looked at their cards and then at the cards on the table.

Angelo ran the hand in his mind: 'If he picks up the Four of Clubs and the Six of Spades with his King, I lead with my Five; he has to play his Three of Clubs or Four of Spades. I get both of those cards, I'm up one card, we're even at one Diamond card each but there is nothing I can do about that.'

Mrs. Di Carini whispered to Rose: "Put a pot of water on the stove, and make some espresso for your father."

"OK mama."

Angelo looked at his father and smiled. Giocate papa. (Your play papa.) Mr. Di Carini nodded his head and then used his King to sweep up the Six of Spades and the Four of Clubs. Angelo played his Five of Spades. Mr. Di Carini handed Angelo the Four of Spades and Three of Clubs.

Angelo dealt the next hand. Mr. Di Carini got the Two of Hearts, the Six of Hearts, and the Jack of Clubs. Angelo got the Four of Diamonds, the Two of Spades and the Five of Hearts.

His father's eyes immediately went to the Ace of Hearts and the Five of Spades. Mr. Di Carini looked up from the cards. 'If papa is crazy enough to lead with his Two, I take the Five of Spades with my Five of Hearts and then he has no play with his Six of Hearts, but he won't do that. He'll take the Five of Hearts and the Ace of Hearts with his Six of Hearts. I play my Four of Diamonds; he plays his Jack or his Two. It makes no difference. I end up with the Two of Spades and the Two of Clubs. The Queen of Spades, the Four of Diamonds, the Five of Hearts and the Jack of Clubs stay on the table."

Mr. Di Carini swept up the Ace of Hearts and the Five of Spades with his Six of Hearts and the rest of the hand went just as both men figured it would.

"Angelo, who is the mayor of Chicago now?"

"Kelly, Joseph Kelly."

"He likes Roosevelt?" "I don't know if he likes him papa but Kelly is his kind of guy.

He's part of this whole New Deal gang, interest groups, people that want the same things and voting blocs, you know, big city machines, labor unions, minorities who think these guys actually give a shit about them. Guys who think they're smarter than everybody else."

Mr. Di Carini looked around for the coffee. "Roosevelt knows Cermak is going to get shot. He knows there is someone to take Cermak's place that will do what he says. He knows that the people who shot Cermak had a good reason and he agreed with them because they can help him get what he wants. He doesn't care if Cermak dies, Zangara dies, Roosevelt just wants what he wants and he uses people to get it. This is an old story. Chiddu arrusti u so pesci nte ciammi di l'incediu. He takes advantage of the misfortunes of others.)

"Yeah that's right. The people who shot Cermak know Prohibition is over and the government is moving in on their racket. There's nothing they can do about that but they see a bigger opportunity; unions. You control the union and you control the union vote. Now they can get Presidents elected so Presidents are going to have to play ball with them."

Mr. Di Carini picked up on his sons' thoughts.

"... and right before he is sworn in Roosevelt gets to play the great man. He gets headlines; people think he is this fearless guy. They think to themselves 'what a great president this man is gonna be'. He imagined everything in his mind."

Rose placed a pot of espresso on the table near her father. Mrs. Di Carini set down a bottle of Anisette and a bowl of sugar. Rose came back to the table with two small white porcelain espresso cups, neatly nested in their saucers. A little spoon resting on each saucer completed the offering.

"Cermak tried to kill Nitti. Nitti has his fingers in the unions. Roosevelt needs the unions. He imagines the newspaper headlines. He goes along because he has to go along. They come up with that story about Cermak saying 'I'm glad it was me instead of you' so the man dies a hero and there something for his family." Angelo thanked his mother and Mr. Di Carini thanked his daughter. Mr. Di Carini poured two cups of espresso as Angelo dealt the next hand. Mr. Di Carini got the Ace of Spades, the Three of Spades and the Three of Diamonds. Angelo got the Five of Clubs, the Six of Diamonds and the Ace of Clubs.

Mr. Di Carini carefully poured some Anisette into his espresso and stirred his coffee as he looked at the cards on the table. 'If I play my Ace; Angelo can use his Six of Diamonds to take the Ace and Five of Hearts, that would give him two diamonds. He could take the Five of Hearts with his Five of Clubs. I play my Three of Spades, and then he takes the Ace of Spades with his Ace of Clubs. I take the Three of Spades with my Three of Diamonds and he has no play with his Six of Diamonds. That leaves the Queen of Spades, the Four of Diamonds, the Six of Diamonds, and the Jack of Clubs on the table. There is one King left in the deck, if I get it this hand, I sweep the Four and the Six of Diamonds, but maybe Angelo gets the King.'

Angelo looked at the cards. 'I can't play my Ace thinking he'll take the Three; he'll take my Ace with his Ace and then the Three of Spades with his Three of Diamonds.'

Angelo played his Five of Clubs. Mr. Di Carini took the Three of Spades with his Three of Diamonds.

Angelo played his Six of Diamonds. Mr. Di Carini played his Ace of Spades. Angelo swept it up with his Ace of Clubs. That left the Queen of Spades, the Six of Diamonds, the Four of Diamonds, and the Jack of Clubs on the table.

Angelo dealt the next hand. Mr. Di Carini got the Jack of Diamonds, the Seven of Hearts and the Queen of Diamonds. Angelo pulled the Queen of Hearts, the Five of Diamonds and the Seven of Clubs.

Both men immediately noted the final King was still in the deck along with the sette di bello. (The sette di bello, the Seven of Diamonds, in a standard deck, is the most valuable card in Scopa.)

The hand went quickly. Mr. Di Carini led by taking the Queen of Spades with his Queen of Diamonds, thereby picking up two cards, one diamond and preventing Angelo from making the same play with his Queen of Hearts.

Angelo played his Queen of Hearts.

Mr. Di Carini picked up the Jack of Clubs with his Jack of Diamonds. Angelo played his Five of Diamonds.

Mr. Di Carini played his Seven of Hearts and Angelo swept it up with his Seven of Clubs.

For the moment, the espresso was forgotten. Angelo dealt cards the next hand.

Mr. Di Carini got the Six of Clubs, the sette di bello, and the Seven of Clubs. Angelo got the Queen of Clubs, the Ace of Diamonds, and the King of Spades. Five of the ten diamonds were on the table including the sette di bello.

It was Mr. Di Carini's lead. 'The Four and Six of Diamonds are on the table. If I leave the Six there Angelo can sweep them with his King.'

Mr. Di Carini immediately took the Six of Diamonds with his Six of Clubs. Angelo took the Queen of Hearts with his Queen of Clubs.

Mr. Di Carini played his Seven of Spades. Angelo played his Ace of Diamonds. Mr. Di Carini took the Seven of Spades with the sette di bello and Angelo swept of the remaining cards with his King.

Angelo had 22 cards, four diamonds cards, and two sevens.

Mr. Di Carini had 18 cards, six diamonds, two sevens, including the sette di bello.

Angelo was down 3 to 1 after the first hand.

Game Two

Mr. Di Carini took a sip of his coffee. "Anna where are those newspapers I saved? Bring them to me please."

She looked towards her daughter. "Connie get the newspapers in the bin next to your fathers' chair in the living room and bring them to him."

"Sure mama."

Angelo cut the cards and pushed them back towards his father as Connie placed a neat stack of newspaper at her father's elbow.

"Here papa."

"Grazie Connie.... here; Angelo look at this." Mr. Di Carini had read the articles more than once he knew exactly what he was looking for. "Here Angelo look at these headlines."

THANKFUL CROWDS GREET ROOSEVELT, NOW SPEEDING NORTH UNPERTURBED; THOUGHT SHOTS WERE FIRECRACKERS.

THE PRESIDENT-ELECT TELLS CERMAK TO GET WELL FOR THE INAUGURATION.

DOCTORS THINK ROOSEVELT SAVED CHICAGO MAYORS LIFE.

ZANGARA CASE IS PUSHED GRAND JURY WILL TAKE IT UP TODAY – BELIEVED TO HAVE NO

ACCOMPLICES.

Mr. Di Carini poked the newspaper.

That's the one... BELIEVED TO HAVE NO ACCOMPLICES. è ridicolo!

Mr. Di Carini dealt the cards.

Angelo's brothers Peter and Mario came in from their smokes and sat at the table.

Mario smiled at Angelo. "He's got you reading about Zangara. That's old news. Listen to this Babe Ruth took a pay cut."

Angelo looked at his brother. "So what is he going to play for this season?"

Mario smiled. "He got $75,000 last season. This season he gets a lousy $52,000." Angelo shook his head. "Yeah the poor bastard, how's he gonna get by on that?" Peter smiled. "You guys want to hear some baseball news, listen to this, Di Maggio's kid brother Joe. He signed with the Seals for this season."

Angelo pointed his finger at his brother.

"Those guys are great and Joe he is going to be something special, mark my words." There was no argument from Mario or Peter.

Mr. Di Carini said: "and don't forget Vincent", then he looked at his cards.

'The Five of Spades, the Jack of Clubs, and the Six of Spades. 'Angelo has the Ace of Spades, the King of Diamonds, and the Two of Hearts. The Three of Hearts, the King of Hearts, the Five of Diamonds, and the Jack of Hearts are on the table.

If Angelo takes the King with his King, I take the Five of Hearts with my Five of Spades. He has to play a Three or an Ace. It makes no difference. I take the Jack of Hearts with my Jack of Clubs. He has to play his last card, that leaves six points on the table and I sweep all three cards with my six... Scopa!

Angelo took a peach from the bowl Rose had set on the table. "Can you imagine three major league ball players coming out of one family...?"

Cutting the fruit triggered a memory in his mind; his grandfather slicing a peach and dropping a piece into a glass of red wine. He smiled at the memory. He got up from the table and opened the jug of red wine on the counter. He poured some into a water glass and took it to the table.

Peter and Mario sat down at the table. Their brother in laws Nick and Vinnie came in from the porch and joined them. The women started setting the table for cake and coffee and rounding up the kids.

Mr. Di Carini looked up from the cards on the table. "You're thinking of your grandfather."

"Si papa."

Angelo looked at Angelo. "So what else is going on?"

"Primo Carnera is set to fight Sharkey for the heavyweight title at the Madison Square Garden Bowl this June." Peter reached for a piece of fruit. "Yeah, you know that guy he knocked out last month, Ernie Schaaf, he died two days later."

Rose came over to the table. "Who died?"

Mr. Di Carini told his daughter not to worry; it was no one she knew.

That didn't satisfy Rose.

"Peter, tell me who died."

"This boxer Ernie Schaaf, Primo knocked him out, he went into a coma and died.

"Oh my God, Primo killed him?"

Vincent shook his head 'no'. Primo didn't kill him, Max Bear did."

Rose was confused; 'Max Bear did?"

"Yeah; he fought Baer twice. In the second fight Baer was beating the hell out of the poor guy. The bell saved Schaaf from a knockout. It took a while for him to come to. He complained of headaches after that. Six months later he fights Primo and gets knocked out in the 13th. He went into a coma. They rushed him to the hospital for some kind of surgery."

Peter agreed. "That's right. The newspapers said his mother was at his bedside. Ernie comes out of it. His mother asks him "Honey, are you my sweetheart?" Ernie says:

"Yes, mom." Then she says: "How are you?" He says: "I'm okay, Mom." He goes back into the coma, never regains consciousness, and dies on Valentine's Day."

"Oh my God the poor mother. How old was he?"

Peter shrugged his shoulders. Twenty three, twenty four, something like that.

Mr. Di Carini took a hold of his Jack of Clubs and waited for Angelo to make his play. Angelo tried to hide his smile.

Mario nudged Peter. "Look at the old man; he wants to think Angelo is going to take the Jack of Clubs."

"He's testing him. If Angelo takes the King, Pop will take the Five first and then the Jack. Angelo's got no play and Pop's got a Scopa."

Mr. Di Carini smiled: "how's your wine?"

Angelo smiled back. "It's fine papa"

The hand went just the way everybody thought it would. Angelo cut another slice of peach as he watched his father deal the cards.

"Angelo read me that article: How Roosevelt Saw It."

OK papa. Let's see it says: Special to The New York Times WITH PRESIDENT ELECT ROOSEVELT EN ROUTE TO NEW YORK – JACKSONVILLE Fla., Feb, 16. – President elect Roosevelt's personal account of the attempt to assassinate him and the shooting of Mayor Cermak of Chicago and others at Miami last night is as follows:

I have tried ever since last night not to confuse what I saw with all that was told to me.

After I finished speaking, somebody from the talking picture people climbed on the back of the car and said I simply had got to turn around and repeat to them what I said. I said I would not do it. He said "we have come one thousand miles for this." I said, "I am sorry but I can't do it."

Having said that I slid off the back of the car into my seat. Just them Mayor Cermak came forward, I shook hands with him and talked for nearly a minute. Then he moved off around the back of the car."

Bob Clark (one of the Secret Service men) was standing right beside him to the right. As he moved off a man came forward with a telegram about five or six feet long and started telling me what it contained. While he was talking to me, I was leaning forward towards the side of the car. Just then I heard what I thought was a firecracker, then several more. The man talking to me was pulled back and the chauffeur started the car.

I found that a bullet, probably the one that hit Cermak, grazed the top of Clark's hand. His hand was all bloody and scratched. You know I know Bill Sinnott. I kidded him at the hospital this morning and told him that they couldn't hurt him with a bullet in the head. I left orders for them to starve him and take off at least twenty pounds.

I looked around and saw Mayor Cermak doubled up and Mrs. Gill collapsing. Mrs. Gill was at the foot of the bandstand steps. As soon as she was hit she must have got up and started down the stairs. She slumped over at the bottom.

"There, right there, you see Angelo, Roosevelt said he was sitting in his car when he heard the shots. Read a little more."

I told the chauffeur to stop. He did – about fifteen feet from where we started. The Secret Service men shouted at him to get out of the crowd and he started forward again. I stopped him a second time, this time at the corner of the bandstand, about thirty feet further on.

"There you see, he said 'Mrs. Gill was at the foot of the bandstand steps. As soon as she was hit she must have got up and started down the stairs. She was near Cermak, on the bandstand, fifty feet way from Roosevelt."

Angelo smiled, nodded his head in agreement then went back to reading aloud. I saw Mayor Cermak being carried. I motioned to have him put in the back of the car, which would be the first one out. He was alive but I didn't think he was going to last. I put my left arm around him and my hand on his pulse but I couldn't find any pulse. He slumped forward. On the left of Cermak was the Miami Chief of Detectives. He was sitting on the rear mudguard. He said, after we had gone two blocks, "I don't think he is going to make it."

Angelo forgot about the cards for a couple of minutes. "Roosevelt and Cermak talk for a minute and then some guy with a six-foot telegram goes up to Roosevelt and starts talking to him, he's a sitting duck but he doesn't get shot."

"He knew who wasn't going to get shot. That man is cold as ice."

Angelo didn't say anything; he just looked at his father for a moment. The older man seemed to be talking about one man but remembering another. Angelo didn't ask, he waited for a moment and then looked at the cards on the table.

If I play my Queen, he takes it and the Ace with his King. If I play my Two, he takes it with his Two.

Mr. Di Carini tried to hide the twinkle in his eye.

Angelo reached across the table, slid the Six of Clubs to the center of the table then pushed the other five cards towards his father.

"The cards love you papa."

"They always have."

Game Three

"You know papa; they found Cermak's capo Teddy Newberry dead."

"When?"

"In January."

In Chicago?

"No, Indiana."

Mr. Di Carini pushed his jaw forward and shook his head 'yes'. "It's the same thing with this mayor. They couldn't kill him in Chicago, they had to kill him someplace else and they needed someone to blame it on."

"Christ if you believe the newspaper's Cermak was a saint. Not a word about him trying to kill Nitti."

Angelo shuffled the cards the slid them towards his father. Mr. Di Carini made a fist and hit the table, passing on the cut, something you should never do. Angelo dealt the cards. Mr. Di Carini drew the Ace of Clubs, the Queen of Clubs, and the Queen of Hearts. Angelo drew the Ace of Hearts, the Seven of Diamonds (the sette di bello) and the Four of Clubs.

The Three of Diamonds, the Two of Clubs, the Five of Clubs, and the Jack of Spades were on the table.

Mario and Peter poured themselves a cup of Espresso and studied the cards.

"How can pop stop Angelo from getting the sette di bello?"

Mario pointed to the cards with his cup. "His ace is no help, his Queen is no help. Angelo will use the Sette di Bello to take the Two of Clubs and the Five of Clubs. If pop plays his Ace and Angelo takes the Five of Clubs and the Two of Clubs that leaves the Three of Diamonds, the Ace of Clubs and the Jack of Spades on the table. Pop can take the Ace of Clubs and the Jack of Spades with his Queen of Clubs. Angelo will play his Ace. Pop plays his Queen of Hearts, and Angelo takes the Ace of Hearts and the Three of Diamonds with his Four of Clubs. If Pop gets lucky and draws a Queen, he will have a Scopa.'

Mr. Di Carini played his cards and the play went just like Mario said it would. Peter looked at his father. "I want to know why Zangara went along." "He had to. Maybe he had family, maybe he owed money; he had no choice. They told him, we need you to do this and say this. If not, you will suffer. He knew they meant what they said".

Angelo dealt out the next hand. Mr. Di Carini drew the Jack of Hearts, the Two of Diamonds and the Queen of Diamonds. He couldn't hide his smile. Angelo pulled the Seven of Clubs, the Four of Diamonds, and the Six of Hearts. Mr. Di Carini swept up the Queen with his Queen of Diamonds. "Scopa!"

Mario hit Peter with his elbow. "What did I tell you!"

Angelo forgot about the game for a minute. His thoughts were elsewhere. "You know papa, now that I think it about I remember seeing a picture in the paper it was game three of three '32 World Series. There was Cermak, the Major of Chicago and Roosevelt. He was the Governor of New York. Roosevelt was throwing out the first pitch. I kept that newspaper, it's around somewhere, that's the game Ruth called his shot."

"What do you mean Angelo?"

"Ruth pointed to the center field bleachers. He was letting the Cubs know he was going to hit a home run."

"Did he?"

"Yeah."

"He was yelling at the Chicago dugout; they were yelling at him. He was yelling at the Chicago pitcher Root. The count was two and two. Root threw a curve ball and Ruth hit it over the center field wall."

"You know I looked at that picture for a while and then I realized it was a fake, a put up job."

"Why Angelo?"

"Because there was no one in the seats behind them. The stadium was empty. There are some people behind them to make it look good, so if you look at the picture real quick it seems like the real thing but if you really look at it, there are no people.

I remember mentioning it to Brodie. The Democrats' had their convention in Chicago last year. Cermak was against Roosevelt getting the nomination. He was a big wheel by then and he could deliver a lot of votes for the Democratic candidate."

"So they made a deal."

"Yeah, that's what they did."

They played through the deck. Mr. Di Carini picked up another Scopa.

"Scopa!"

On the final hand of the game Mr. Di Carini drew the Queen of Spades, the King of Clubs, and the Five of Spades.

Angelo pulled the Seven of Hearts, the Six of Spades and the Ace of Diamonds. Mr. Di Carini immediately took the Four of Hearts and the Six of Diamonds with his King of Clubs.

Angelo stared at the Jack of Clubs. 'If play my Ace of Diamonds that makes nine points on the table; papa takes those two cards with his Queen of Spades and he has another Scopa. I play my Six of Spades; He plays his Five of Spades. If I play my Ace, he takes the Ace of Diamonds and the Jack of Diamonds. If I play my Seven of Hearts he tosses in his Queen of Spades, I toss in my Ace of Diamonds, he takes the last trick, and he gets all the cards'.

Angelo looked at his father who was smiled gently at his son. "A ghiri e veniri si fa lu maccarruni, Angelo". (Sicilian: Go ahead, the macaroni is made.)

Game Four

Angelo had fallen far behind. He'd played his cards thoughtfully but fortune had smiled upon his father twice in the last hand and his chance to make up for the first two hands vanished on the final deal of the cards.

Mr. Di Carini shuffled the cards and Angelo gave them a cut. After the deal Angelo had the Four of Hearts, the Four of Spades, and the Jack of Diamonds, Mr. Di Carini had the Five of Diamonds, the Seven of Spades, and the Three of Spades. On the table between them lay the Three of Diamonds, the Six of Hearts, The Two of Clubs, and the Queen of Hearts.

Angelo looked at the cards on the table. 'If I play either of my fours he will take it and the Three of Diamonds with his Seven of Spades. My only play is to sweep the Two of Clubs and the Six of Clubs with my Jack of Diamonds.'

They played through the hand. La Premira went to Mr. Di Carini, one point. The score was now 10 to 5. Mr. Di Carini needed only one point to win.

Angelo pushed all the cards toward his father. "You win papa."

The older man smiled. "There's is nothing you can do Angelo."

Everyone took their places at the table. The kids were rounded up.

Mr. Di Carini reached for a chestnut. As he peeled it he said: "These political men are liars, thieves, and murderers. Forgot about what they say, look at what they do. They will kill you and your family for money and never lose one minute of sleep. Money and power is what they love.

U pesci fet d'a testa. Fish start smelling from the head. Meaning: Corruption starts at the top.

Epilogue

After Cermak's Death, longtime Cermak ally and Cook County Party Chairman Patrick A. Nash orchestrated the city council's appointment of Edward J. Kelly, chief engineer of the Sanitary District, to complete the mayor's term.

They built the "Kelly-Nash Machine", one of the most powerful, and most corrupt, big city political organizations ever. The Kelly-Nash Machine dominated Chicago government and the local Democratic Party from 1933 to 1947.

Kelly wasn't concerned with gambling and organized crime in the city. He was a loyal New Dealer who produced huge majorities for Franklin D. Roosevelt. In return he controlled New Deal Social and Welfare Programs in the city.

Angelo Paul DiMaggio (February 12, 1917 – May 8, 2009) "The Little Professor", played center field for the Boston Red Sox from 1940 to1953. He batted .300 four times, led the American League in runs twice and in triples and stolen bases once each. He also led the AL in assists three times and in putouts and double plays twice.

He tied a league record by recording 400 putouts four times, and his 1948 totals of 503 putouts in 526 total chances stood as AL records for nearly thirty years. His 1338 games in center field ranked eighth in AL history when he retired. His 34-game hitting streak in 1949 remains a Boston club record.

Vincent Paul "Vince" DiMaggio (September 6, 1912 - October 3, 1986) played center field for the Boston Bees (1937–1938), Cincinnati Reds (1939–1940), Pittsburgh Pirates (1940–1945), Philadelphia Phillies (1945–1946), and New York Giants (1946). Vincent was a fine outfielder and a smart base runner. He hit 21 home runs with 100 RBI's for the Pirates in 1941. He led National League center fielders in assists three times and putouts twice. He ranked among the National League's top ten home run hitters six times between 1938 and 1945. He was a two-time All-Star selection (1943–44). In the 1944 All-Star game, Vincent hit a home run, triple and single in three at-bats. The next year he hit four grand slams for the Phillies. In his ten-year career, Vince DiMaggio batted .249 with 125 home runs and 584 RBI's in 1110 games.

Joseph Paul "Joe" DiMaggio (November 25, 1914 – March 8, 1999), nicknamed "Joltin' Joe" and "The Yankee Clipper," played his entire 13-year Major League Baseball career for the New York Yankees. Joe was a 3-time MVP and the only player to be selected for the All-Star Game in every season he played. In his thirteen-year career, the Yankees won ten pennants and nine world championships. At the time of his retirement, he had the fifth-most career home runs (361) and sixth-highest slugging percentage (.579) in history. His 56-game hitting streak record still stands (May 15–July 16, 1941). He was elected into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1955.

Primo Carnera (October 26, 1906 – June 29, 1967) lived an amazing life. He was born in Sequals, then in the Province of Udine, now Province of Pordenone, Italy. He grew to be 6 feet 5½ inches tall and weighed 284 pounds at a time when the average height in Italy was approximately 5 ft. 5 in.

You can find all sorts of stories about fixed fights and what a dope Primo was. Boxing people will tell you Max Baer had one of the best right hands in boxing history. He knocked Primo down eleven times; well he could not have done that it Primo didn't get up eleven times. That's called heart.

Primo got robbed and used. He didn't give up. He became a wrestler after World War Two. He provided for his family. His family loved him and Italians loved him. You can't do better than that.

In 2008, Renzo Martinelli directed the biography/drama; Carnera: The Walking Mountain. The cast included Burt Young as Lou Soresi, Paul Sorvino as Ledudal, F. Murray Abraham as Leon See, and former World Champ Nino Benvenuti as Max Baer's Trainer.

How to Play Scopa

Scopa means to sweep and in this game the principle objectives is to sweep all the cards off the table in one play.

Converting your standard deck of playing cards into an 'Italian Deck of Cards

There are 40 cards in a deck of Italian Playing Cards. There are no 8's, 9's, or 10's.

There are no Jacks and Queens as we know them in a standard deck of cards.

In the Italian deck we have:

The fante, the equivalent of the Jack in your standard deck. The fante is a standing figure holding the symbol of the suit it represents. A fante equals 8.

The cavallo is the equivalent of the Queen in your standard deck. The cavallo is a figure seated on a horse (cavallo means horse) holding the symbol of the suit it represents. A cavallo represents 9.

The Re (pronounced 'ray') is the equivalent of the King in your standard deck. The Re is a standing figure dressed as a King (Re means King) holding the symbol of the suit it represents. A Re equals 10.

You have two choices:

Remove all the 8's, 9's and 10 from your standard deck. (No Jokers.) You now have a deck of 40 playing cards

if you'd like, you can take out all the court cards (kings, queens, and jacks) instead and use the 8's, 9's and 10's while you are learning Scopa and Quindici.

We say this because Scopa and Quindici are mathematical games. Scopa is based on 10 and Quindici is based on 15.

Open / Aperto Closed 'Chiuso

An open game means that all the cards are face up at all times. When you are learning these games playing against yourself in an open format is a great way to study. It is a great way to start when you begin to play with another person who is learning for the first time.

Once you understand the rules and strategy you can play these games in a closed format. (You do not know what cards your opponent has drawn.)

I personally enjoy playing Two Handed Scopa and Quindici. It takes much of the luck out of the games and replaces it with strategy.

How to Keep Score

Knowing how to keep score, make points, is your gateway to Scopa (and Quindici) strategy.

Sweeping all the cards off the table at once is a Scopa! Each Scopa scores 1 point.

Let's say there are only two cards on the table; a 5 and a 2. You have a 7 in your hand. You use your 7 to take the 5 and the 2 (5+2=7). You have swept all the cards off the table in a single play: that is a Scopa!

**Remember:** Let's say there is a 3 a 7 and a 10 on the table and you have a 10 in your hand. You must take the 10 with your 10. You can not take multiple cards if you play a matching card. If you had a 10 and there was a 3, a 7, and an 8 on the table, you could take the 3 and the 7 with your 10.

As you capture cards you place them face down in a pile near you. You count your points at the end of the hand. During play, if you score a Scopa, place the card you used to make the Scopa, face up when you put it in your pile of captured cards.

Each face up card stands for a Scopa and therefore each face up card (each Scopa) is worth 1 point.

(A face up sette di bello would be 2 points; 1 for the Scopa and 1 for the sette di bello itself.)

The most valuable card in the deck is il sette di bello, the seven of diamonds, in your standard deck. The sette di bello scores: 1 point. In the examples of play the sette di bello will be represented like so: 7*. (In this text all diamonds will be indicated with an asterisk.)

Let's say there were two sevens on the table, one of which is the sette di bello (the seven of diamonds) and a 3. You have a 10. You would be better served by taking the 3 and the seven of diamonds with your 10. You have picked up three cards and scored one point thanks to the seven of diamonds

If one player is able to collect 6 or more denari, (six or more cards of the diamond suit in your regular deck), that player gets 1 point.

If a player wins the la premiera*; that player gets 1 point.

*We will define la premiera in just a moment.

If one player takes 21 or more cards that player gets 1 point.

Now you know (excluding Scopa's) there are 4 points in each hand. All 4 points may or may not be awarded depending upon the outcome of the hand.

Scopa's may or may not be achieved in a hand.

Learning How to Play

Begin by dealing three cards face up to your opponent.

Deal three cards, face up to yourself, and four cards, face up, between you and your opponent.

These four cards are the ones you and your opponent will try to capture.

There are two ways to take cards from the table.

You can match cards. If you have a King in your hand and there is a King on the table, you can take that King with your King. If you have a 3 in your hand and there is a 3 on the table, you can take that 3 with your 3, and so on.

The first way to take cards from the table is by matching cards on the table with the cards in your hand, simple as that.

Here is the second way to take cards from the table. Let's say you have a 7 in your hand. There are no 7's on the table but there is a 5 and a 2. 5 + 2 = 7.

You can use your 7 to take the 5 and the 2, or any combination of cards that total 7.

BUT if there is a 5, a 2, and a 7 on the table you can only take the 7. If you have a matching card you cannot use it to take multiple cards, you must take the matching card.

These are the number values of the cards DURING PLAY.

The King = 10

The Queen = 9

The Jack = 8

7 =7

6= 6

5 = 5

4 = 4

3 = 3

2 = 2

The Ace = 1

Scoring is an entirely separate matter. Once the final hand has been played it is time to count your score. We will get to that in a moment.

Here are a few of the many numerical possibilities.

A 4 and an Ace equal 5. (4 + 1 = 5) You can take any 4 and any ace with your 5.

A 3 and a 2 equal 5. (3 + 2 = 5) You can take any 3 and any 2 with your 5.

A 3 and 2 Aces equal 5. (3 + 1 + 1 = 5) You can take any 3 and any two aces with your 5.

Two 2's and an Ace equal 5. (2 + 2 + 1 = 5) You can take any two 2's and any ace with your 5.

Scopa is mathematics.

KEEPING SCORE

Knowing how the score points will introduce you to Scopa) strategy.

Now let's take a closer look at Scopa Strategy. Four out of the available five points are about which cards are taken, not how many cards are taken.

You want to take: the sette di bello / the seven of diamonds...

six or more diamonds...

as many 7's as he can, 7's have a high 'la premiera' value and...

finally, cards in general.

These are your objectives.

Always look for a way to set up a Scopa and always calculate the way to sweep the most cards from the table in a particular play but acquiring the most cards is your final consideration.

Counting Your Score

At the end of the hand... ( **A hand means all the cards in the deck have been played**.) You begin by dealing three cards to your opponent, three cards to yourself, and then four cards face up on the table in between you. Remember there are forty cards in the deck so ten are immediately in play.

This leaves 30 cards in the deck. After you and your opponent have played your three cards, another three cards are dealt to each of you. There will be five deals of three cards each after the initial deal (6x5=30). Once all the cards have been played it is time to count your score.

If during play, a Scopa is scored then there will be no cards on the table and the person who leads is in a vulnerable position. Let's say you opponent puts a 4 on the table and you have a 4 in your hand. You can immediately sweep it up and score another Scopa.

.... count how many Scopa's you have, if any. Each Scopa is worth 1 point.

If you have the sette di bello you have scored 1 point. If your opponent has the sette di bello, he gets that point.

Now count the number of denari /diamonds you have. If you have 6 or more, you get 1 point. If you have four or less that means your opponent has six or more and he gets the point. If each of you has five denari / diamonds each, no one gets 'that' point.

Now count how many cards you captured. If you have 21 or more, the majority of the deck, you get 1 point.

If you have 19 or less cards that means your opponent has 21 or more cards and he gets that point.

If each of you has 20 cards, no point (for cards taken) is awarded to either player.

OK. Now it is time to see if you have won (the) la premiera.

la premiera is determined by selecting your "best" card in each of the four suits, and then totaling those four cards' point values.

When calculating la premiera a separate point scale is used.

The player with the highest number of la premiera points using this separate point scale gets 1 point added to his score.

Table B is generally an accepted standard, although there are certainly variations.

Table B:

Seven (sette) = 21 points

Six (sei) = 18 points

Ace (asso) = 16 points

Five (cinque) = 15 points

Four (quattro) = 14 points Three (tre) = 13 points

Two (due) = 12 points

King (re) = 10

As you can see a seven is worth 21 points. If you captured all the seven's in a game 21 x 4 =84, you would be awarded 1 point for la premiera.

If you captured the seven of hearts and diamonds, the six of clubs and the ace of spades, your count is (21 \+ 21 + 18 + 16) = 76. If your opponent has a higher point value he gets 1 point added to his score. If you have the higher point value, you get 1 point added to your score.

Take another look at how points are scored

il sette di bello / The Seven of Diamonds

The sette di bello gives you 1 point. It is a denari (diamond) and it counts towards your attempt to capture 6 or more denari (diamonds) and it helps you in your effort to win la premiera.

Therefore, the sette di bello (the seven of diamonds) can contribute towards the award of 3 points, making it the most valuable card in the deck.

Note: The sette di bello will be represented like so: 7*

To win a match you must score 11 points.

If you or your opponent has 10 points going into the final hand and you or he scores a Scopa or picks up the sette di bello; yes, that person has 11 points, but it does not halt play. The game is played to the end and then the final score is calculated.

The Final Hand of the Game

Whoever takes the last trick of the game takes all the remaining cards from the table. It is possible that, during the last three hands of the game, neither player will be able to make a final play that takes a card or cards from the table.

If that happens, the player who took the last trick, in the previous hand, will be awarded any cards left on the table.

Those remaining cards could contain the sette di bello, denari / diamonds, cards that would contribute to winning la premiera, or give the player more than 20 cards and so1 point.

Therefore, the final hand of the game is very important.

You should always be thinking about being able to take the last trick of the game.

If you are truly going to learn Scopa and Quindici*, you must master the fundamentals. *Quindici means 15 in Italian. The rules for playing Quindici are different than Scopa in that you can only take cards that total 15. So if there was a 5 and a 10 on the table and you had a 10 in your hand, you could use your 10 to take the 5 (5+10 = 15).

Knowing which cards 'pair up naturally' is an important skill.

If you have to think about what cards go together, in real time, it will have a negative impact on your play.

Now that you know the value of the cards and how to keep score it is time to learn how to play Scopa.

The cards are shuffled and the dealer offers the cards to the other player to be cut.

After the cut three cards are dealt to each player and then four cards are placed face up on the table between the two players.

The deck is placed to the side.

After the first three cards have been played, three more cards are dealt to each player, and then those cards are played.

This continues until all the cards have been dealt and played.

When a player captures cards, he places them in a face down pile, making sure not to get his cards confused with the remaining cards in the deck and his opponents captured cards.

After the last hand each player counts his score.

If a Scopa is scored, the card used to make the Scopa is placed face up and 'sideways' in your pile of captured cards.

Each face up card represents one Scopa and so, 1 point.

The deal changes at the start of each new game. The person dealing plays second.

OK let's play Scopa!

Let's assume an open game for the purposes of instruction.

(Only the Diamonds will be referred to by suit because as you now know capturing six diamonds earns you one point.)

The cards are shuffled and cut.

Three cards are dealt to each player.

Next; four cards are placed face up on the table, between the two players.

The deck is placed to the side.

There are forty cards in the deck.

After the first deal, there are ten cards on the table and thirty cards in the deck.

So; after the first hand there will be five additional deals of three cards to each player.

After the final hand the scores are counted and recorded.

Example 1

Player 1 Jack of Diamonds (a Jack = 8), Two of Diamonds, Nine

On the Table A Queen (a Queen = 9 points), a Four, a Six, and the Ace of Diamonds (an Ace = 1 point)

Player 2 King of Diamonds (a King = 10), Three of Diamonds, and a Six.

8* 2* 9 Player 1

9 4 6 1* Table

10* 3* 6 Player 2

Five of the ten Diamonds are on the table in the first hand.

There are no 7's on the table or in either player's hand.

Let's assume you are Player 2 and it is your lead. What would you do? Try to play out all the cards in your head.

You can use your King (10 points) to sweep the queen and the ace (9+1=10) or the 4 and the 6 (4+6=10).

In this example; it is better for you to take the queen and the ace because in addition to picking up two cards, you are picking up two diamonds.

(Remember capturing 6 or more diamonds scores 1 point.)

Player One has: 8 2 9

On the Table: 4 6

Player One is unable to take any cards.

If Player One were to play his 2 you could take the 2 and 4 with your 6.

Therefore, Player One plays his 9.

Now the table looks like this: 4 6 9

You are holding: 3 6

Player One is holding: 8 2

You take the 6 from the table with your 6. (Now your remaining card is a 3.)

Now the table looks like this: 4 9

Player One has to play either his 8 or his 2. Let's assume he plays his 8.

Now the table looks like this: 4 9 8

You cannot take any cards from the table. You play your 3.

Now the table looks like this: 4 9 8 3

Player One cannot take any cards from the table. He plays his 2.

Now the table looks like this: 4 9 8 3 2

The first deal is completed.

There are 5 cards on the table and many possible numerical combinations.

Three more cards are dealt to each player and then the game continues.

Note: The deal does not change hands during the game. At the end of the game the cards are gathered, the points are counted and recorded. Then the deal changes hands.

The cards are shuffled, cut and dealt. Three cards are dealt to each player. The player who dealt the cards plays second.

Keep this in mind:

If there are no cards on the table, because the final play of a hand was a Scopa, the person playing first must play one of his 3 cards.

Depending upon what cards he drew and what cards his opponent drew, this could lead to an immediate Scopa for the player who goes second!

If, for example each player was dealt an ace, a king and a 3, then the person playing first would lose 3 points because each time he put a card on the table his opponent could sweep it up and there would be no cards remaining on the table.

In Scopa you must be mindful of sequences of cards played. We will talk more about this.

Scopa Blindness

This hand is from a game I played. It was my lead.

My Cards: 7 6 5

On The Table: 7* 3 4 2

Angelo's Cards: 6 2 9

What would you do?

All I saw was the sette di bello on the table and the seven in my hand. I did not think it through.

I immediately took the sette di bello.

Angelo smiled at me then used his Queen to sweep up the three remaining cards on the table.

(3+4 +2 = 9).

His Scopa cancelled out the point I'd just made by taking the sette di bello.

Note: Notice that after a Scopa the table is naturally empty. The player who had the Scopa scored against him must now play. In this example I had a 6 and 5, Angelo had a 6 and a 2. I have to play my 5. If I play my 6 Angelo can take it with his 6 and get another Scopa. If Angelo also had a 6 and a 2, he would have 2 more Scopa's. He's scores 3 points to my 1.

If I had used my 6 to take the 4 and the 2 Angelo has no play, no Scopa and I pick up four cards and one point.

Here's how it would have looked if I took the 4 and the 2 with my 6.

My Cards: 7 5

On The Table: 7* 3

Angelo's Cards: 6 2 9

Angelo has no play. He has to play one of his three cards. Now I can take the sette di bello with my 7. If I played my cards right the score would have been 1 to 0 in my favor after the first hand.

Here is another example of Scopa Blindness

Player One goes first. His eyes go to the 4 and 5 of diamonds. Player One sweeps ups the 4 and 5 of diamonds with his 9

Player One Cards: 1 9 2

On The Table 7 1 4* 5*

Player Two Cards: 10 5 8

This opens the door to a Scopa for Player 2. Player Two takes the 7 and the 1 with his 8.

Take a look at this hand:

The sette di bello on the table and I drew a 7.

My hand: 7 6 5

On the table: 6 2 9 7*

Your hand: 9 4 2

I immediately take the sette di bello; leaving: 6 2 9 on the table.

You take the 9 with your 9 leaving: 6 2 on the table.

If I take the 6 with my 6 that leaves a 2 on the table.

You could take the 2 with your 2 and score a Scopa so I have to play my 5.

That leaves 6 2 5 on the table.

You takes the 2 with your 2 leaving: 6 5 on the table.

I take the 6 on the table with my 6 leaving a 5 on the table.

You have no play, he puts his 4 on the table (4+5 =9).

If I draw a nine in the next hand, I can get a Scopa.

Note: Notice that after a Scopa the table is naturally empty.

Take a look at these cards:

You are Player 1. You have: 7 6 2

One the table: 4* 5* 7 1

Your opponent has: 6 2 9

It is your lead, what do you do?

You take the 7 with your 7. Remember 7's count towards la premiera.

Now you have: 6 2

On the table: 4* 5* 1

Player 2 takes the 5* and the 1 with his 6.

This leaves a 4* (four of diamonds on the table)

Player 2 has: 2 9

You play your 2

One the table: 2 4*

Player 2 takes the 2 with his 2 leaving the 4* on the table.

You play your 6, leaving: 6 4* on the table.

Player 2 can't take any cards. He has to play his 9.

At the end of the hand the 6 4* and 9 are on the table.

You have picked up two 7's.

Your opponent has taken 3 cards one of which is a diamond. Remember if a player takes six or more diamonds, he earns 1 point.

Same Card Sequences

Take a look at the hand.

You hold the 7, 6, and 2, it is your lead.

On the table 7* 3 4 2

Your opponent has the 6, 2, and 9.

You lead by taking the sette di bello; you make one point but then your opponent makes a Scopa by taking the 3, 4, and 2 with his 9; 1 point.

Now it is your turn. If you play your 6 he plays his 6 and he has another Scopa, now you have to play your 2 and he has another Scopa. You lost two points. You have to lead on the next hand and you risk giving up another Scopa.

Whenever you see your opponent has the same cards as you; you must play out the sequences in your head before you actually play your card.

Here is the same hand... You take the 4 and the 2 with your 6.

This leaves the 7* and the 3 on the table

Your opponent cannot take the sette di bello.

If you were to take the sette di bello; this would leave 9 points on the table and your opponent could take the 3 and 6 with his 9 and make a Scopa.

You must play your 2 and your opponent has another Scopa.

If lead with your 2 this puts 9 points on the table. Your opponent can take the sette di bello and the 2 with his 9.

Sequences are dependent upon who leads! Be mindful of that!

Scopa Traps

I define a Scopa Trap as a series of tricks that lead to a Scopa. Once the first card has been played a Scopa is mathematically unstoppable.

Consider the following example. You have: 5, 6 and 9. You play first.

There is only one card on the table, a 3.

Your opponent has: 4 5 4

You play your 5.

Now the table looks like this: 5 3

Player 2 responds by taking the 5 with his 5.

You play your 6.

The table looks like this: 3 9

Your opponent plays one of his 4's

Now the table looks like this: 3 6 4

You are holding a 9 which you have to play. You get the 6 and 3 but leave a 4 on the table.

Your opponent sweeps it up with his remaining 4 and makes a Scopa (1 point).

Another Example:

Player One: 4 5 4

On the Table: 3

Player 2: 5 6 9

Player 2 leads, he plays his 6. Player 1 responds with his 4

Now the table looks like this: 3 6 4

Player 2 plays his 5 and Player 1 takes it with his 5

Now the table is back to: 3 6 4

Player 2 takes the 3 and 6 with his 9 leaving a 4 on the table.

Player 1 takes the 4 with his 4. Scopa!

Offensive Play

It is Player 1's lead. He has a 3 and two Aces. Remember aces are 1 point each.

Player 1: 3 1 1

On the table: 7 8 4 10

You have: 8 9 10

If Player 1 leads with an ace the table will look like this:

7 8 4 10 1

You can take the 8 and ace (1) the with your 9

On the table: 7 4 10

Player 1: 3 1

On the table: 7 4 10

You have: 8 10

Player 1 decides to play his 3

On the table: 7 4 10 3

You take the 10 with your 10.

Player 1 plays his ace

On the table: 7 4 3 1

Now you can take the 7 and the ace (1) with your 8. Remember 7's help you win la premiera.

It is your lead. What do you do?

Player 1: 3 1 1

On the table: 7 8 4 10

You have: 8 9 10

You take the 10 with your 10. If Player 1 responds with an ace you can take the 7 and the ace with your 8.

If he plays his 3 you play your 9. He has to play an ace and now you can take the 7 and the ace with your 8.

The Last Hand of the Game

Whoever takes the last trick in the deal takes all the remaining cards on the table (if there are any).

No Scopa is awarded for getting the last card(s) from the table (by default).

If you are in a close game those final cards may mean the difference between winning and losing. What cards are still out? The sette bell, (the seven of diamonds), denari (diamond cards), i setti (sevens)? You must be aware of this when you look at your hand, the cards on the table, and then your opponents' cards.

Final Thoughts

Cards left On the Table: The final play (during a hand) leaves one card on the table and your opponent will play first on the next deal. What are the odds that he will draw a card that matches the one on the table?

There are 40 cards in the deck. After the first deal there are 10 cards on the table and 30 cards remaining in the deck.

There are 5 hands to be played after the first deal. 30 / 6 = 5.

2nd Hand 24 cards remain in the deck

3rd Hand 18 cards remain in the deck

4th Hand 12 cards remain in the deck

Let us say in the first hand one re (king) came out and it is the sole card remaining on the table. There are 30 cards left in the deck, 3 of which are re (kings). There are 3 chances in 30 that a king will be dealt in the following hand. That's a 10 % chance you or your opponent will draw a king.

If a king is not dealt, then here are 24 cards remaining in the deck three of which are kings. The odd of drawing a king goes up to 12.5 % on the next hand.

On third hand assuming no kings have been dealt, there 18 cards remaining in the deck, 3 of which are re (kings). The odds of drawing a re are 3 in 18 or 16.666%

On the fourth hand assuming no re have been dealt, there 12 cards remaining in the deck, 3 of which are re (kings). The odds of drawing a re are 3 in 12 or 25%

Exercise

You must be aware of this when you look at your hand, the cards on the table, and then your opponents' cards. What cards take what cards?

The King can sweep another King, but what other combinations of cards can a King take?

Memorize the following examples and see if you can create any of your own.

A king can take any queen and any ace (9+1=10).

A king can take any jack and any 2 (8+2=10).

A king can take any 7 and any 3 (7+3=10).

A king can take any 7 + any 2 + any 1 (7+3=10).

A king can take any 6 + any 3 + any 1 (6+3+1=10).

A king can take any 6 + any two 2's (6+2+2=10).

A king can take any 6 + any 2's and any two aces. (6+2+1+1=10).

A king can take any two 5's. (5+5=10).

A king can take any 5 + any 4 + any ace. (5+4+1=10).

A king can take any 5 + any 3 + any 2. (5+3+2=10)

A king can take any 5 + any two 2's + any ace. (5+2+2+1=10)

A king can take any two 4's + any 2. (4+4+2=10)

A king can take any two 4's + any two aces. (4+4+1+1=10) What other combinations are available?

The Queen can sweep another Queen, but what other combinations of cards can a Queen take? Memorize the following examples and see if you can create any of your own.

A queen can take any jack and any ace (8+1=9).

A queen can take any 7 and any 2 (7+2=9).

A queen can take any 7 and any two aces (7+1+1=9).

A queen can take any 6 and any two and any ace (6+2+1=9).

A queen can take any 5 and any two 2's. (5+2+2=9).

A queen can take any 5 and any 4. (5+4=9).

A queen can take any 5 and any 3 and any ace. (5+3+1=9).

A queen can take any 5 and any 2 and any two aces. (5+2+1+1=9).

A queen can take any 4 and any two 2's and any ace. (4+2+2+1=9).

A queen can take any two 3's any 2 and any ace. (3+3+2+1=9).

What other combinations are available?

The Jack can sweep another Jack, but what other combinations of cards can a Jack take?

Memorize the following examples and see if you can create any of your own.

A jack can take any 7 and any ace (7+1=8). A j

ack can take any 6 and any two or any ace (6+2 =8). A jack can take any 5 and any 3. (5+3=8). A jack can take any 5 and any 2 and any ace. (5+2+1=8).

A jack can take any 4 and any two 2's. (4+2+2=8).

A jack can take any two 3's and any 2. (3+3+2 =9).

What other combinations are available?

The Seven can sweep another seven but what other combinations of cards can a Seven take?

Memorize the following examples and see if you can create any of your own.

A seven can take any 6 and any ace (6+1=7).

A seven can take any 5 and any two aces (5+1+1=7).

A seven can take any 4 any 2 and any ace (4+2+1=7).

A seven can take any 4 and any 3 (4+3=7).

A seven can take any two 3's and any ace (4+3=7).

What other combinations are available?

The Six can sweep another six but what other combinations of cards can a Six take?

Memorize the following examples and see if you can create any of your own.

A six can take any 5 and any ace (5+1=6).

A six can take any 4 and any two aces (4+1+1=6).

A six can take two threes' (3+3=6).

The Five can sweep another five but what other combinations of cards can a Five take?

Memorize the following examples and see if you can create any of your own.

A five can take any 4 and any aces (4+1=5).

A five can take any 3 and any 2 (3+2=5).

A five can take any 3 and any two aces (3+1+1=5).

Memorize the following examples and see if you can create any of your own.

The Four can sweep another four but what other combinations of cards can a Four take?

Memorize the following examples and see if you can create any of your own.

A four can take any 2 and any two aces (2+1+1=4).

A four can take any 3 and any aces (3+1=4). A four can take any two 2's. (2+2=4).

The Three can sweep another three but what other combinations of cards can a three take?

A three can take any 2 and any ace (2+1=3).

A three can take any 3 aces (1+1+1=3).

The Two can sweep another two or two aces. The Ace can sweep another Ace.

Quindici

Quindici is Italian for 15. The Rules and Scoring for Quindici are identical to Scopa. The difference is instead of sweeping matching cards or combinations of cards that total the same amount; you have to use the card you play to sweep up cards from the table that total 15.

So in this game you could use your king, for example, to sweep up a 5 (10+5=15).

When you are playing Quindici you must know what combination of cards equal 15.

Memorize the following examples and see if you can create any of your own.

QUNIDICI THE CARDS MUST TOTAL 15

QUINDICI ANY KING PLUS ANY FIVE = FIFTEEN 10+5=15

ANY QUEEN PLUS ANY SIX = FIFTEEN 9+6=15

ANY JACK PLUS ANY SEVEN = FIFTEEN 8+7=15

ANY KING ANY CARDS THAT EQUAL FIVE 10+3+2=15

ANY KING +3+1+1=15

ANY KING +2+2+1=15

ANY KING +1+1+1+2=15

ANY OTHER COMBINATIONS YOU CAN THINK OF WITH THE KING?

ANY QUEEN + ANY FIVE + ANY ACE 9+5+1=15

ANY QUEEN + ANY FOUR + ANY 2 9+4+2=15

ANY QUEEN + ANY FOUR + ANY 2 ACES 9+4+1+1=15

ANY QUEEN + ANY TWO 3's 9+3+3=15

ANY QUEEN + ANY THREE+ ANY TWO+ ANY ACE 9 +3+2+1=15

ANY QUEEN + ANY THREE+ ANY 3 ACES 9+3+1+1+1=15

ANY QUEEN + ANY THREE 2's 9+2+2+2=15

ANY QUEEN + ANY TWO 2's + ANY TWO ACES 9+2+2+1+1=15

ANY OTHER COMBINATIONS YOU CAN THINK OF WITH THE QUEEN?

NOTE: THE NATURAL PARTNER FOR A JACK IS THE SEVEN. THE SEVEN OF DIAMONDS (IL SETTE DI BELLO) IS THE SINGLE MOST VALUABLE CARD IN THE DECK, IT IS WORTH 1 POINT. NEVER LOSE YOUR CHANCE TO MAKE THE MATCH OF ANY JACK AND THE SETTE BELLO.

ANY JACK + ANY SEVEN = FIFTEEN

ANY JACK + ANY FIVE + ANY TWO = FIFTEEN 8+5+2=15

ANY JACK + ANY FIVE + ANY TWO ACES = FIFTEEN 8+5+1+1=15

ANY JACK + ANY FOUR + ANY TWO+ ANY ACE = FIFTEEN 8+4+2+1=15

ANY JACK + ANY FOUR + ANY THREE ACES = FIFTEEN 8+4+1+1+1=15

ANY OTHER COMBINATIONS YOU CAN THINK OF WITH THE JACK?

THE SEVEN / IL SETTE ANY TWO SEVENS+ ANY ACE = FIFTEEN 7+7+2+1=15

ANY SEVEN + ANY SIX + ANY TWO ACES = FIFTEEN 7+6+1+1=15

ANY SEVEN + ANY SIX + ANY TWO = FIFTEEN 7+6+2=15

ANY SEVEN + ANY FIVE + ANY THREE = FIFTEEN 7+5+3=15

ANY SEVEN + ANY FIVE + ANY TWO+ ANY ACE = FIFTEEN 7+5+2+1=15

ANY SEVEN + ANY FIVE + ANY THREE ACES = FIFTEEN 7+5+1+1+1=15

ANY SEVEN + ANY FOUR + ANY THREE + ANY ACE = FIFTEEN 7+4+3+1=15

ANY SEVEN + ANY TWO FOUR + ANY TWO TWO'S = FIFTEEN 7+4+2+2=15

ANY OTHER COMBINATIONS YOU CAN THINK OF WITH THE SEVEN?

THE SIX / IL SEI ANY TWO SIXES+ ANY THREE = FIFTEEN 6+6+3=15

ANY TWO SIXES+ ANY TWO + ANY ACE = FIFTEEN 6+6+2+1=15

ANY TWO SIXES+ ANY THREE ACES = FIFTEEN 6+6+1+1+1=15

ANY SIX+ ANY FIVE+ ANY FOUR = FIFTEEN 6+5+4=15

ANY SIX+ ANY FIVE+ ANY THREE + ANY ACE = FIFTEEN 6+5+3+1=15

ANY SIX+ ANY FIVE+ ANY TWO TWO'S = FIFTEEN 6+5+2+2=15

ANY OTHER COMBINATIONS YOU CAN THINK OF WITH THE SIX?

A Scopa is more difficult to accomplish in Quindici. When you begin to play the game for the first time you may lose scoring opportunities because you do not recognize the combinations of cards that total 15. This is especially true if you playing with Italian cards for the first time. The designs and values of the cards are not familiar to you.

If your opponent knows the cards well; he may try to rush your play and cause you to miss an opportunity.

Example 1

Player 1: 3 of Spades Ace of Spades King of Clubs

Table: Jack of Diamonds 4 of Clubs 7 of Spades 6 of Clubs

Player 2: 7 of Clubs 4 of Hearts 7* of Diamonds

Player 1 has no cards that can make a total of 15. There is a Jack on the table. A Jack has a point value of 8. Player 2 has the 7 of Clubs and the 7* of Diamonds (the sette di bello). 7+8=15. Player 2 can make a point by taking the Jack of Diamonds from the table with his 7 of Diamonds.

Example 2

Player 1: 6 of Spades, 7* of Diamonds, King of Clubs

Table: Jack of Spades, Queen of Diamonds, 7 of Spades, 6 of Clubs

Player 2: 7 of Clubs, 4 of Diamonds, Ace of Diamonds

Player 1 can take the Jack of Spades with his 7* of Diamonds. This gives Player 1 one point for the sette di bello and also prevents Player 2 from making the same play with his 7 of Clubs.

Player 1: 6 of Spades, King of Clubs

Table: Queen of Diamonds, 7 of Spades, 6 of Clubs

Player 2: 7 of Clubs , 4 of Diamonds, Ace of Diamonds

Player 2 plays his 7 of Clubs. This puts 14 points on the table.

Player 2 has an ace (1 point). Player 1 must play either his 6 of Spades or his King of Clubs. In either case he cannot make a combination of 15 points. After his play, Player 1 can play his ace and sweep three cards.

Example 3

Player 1: King of Clubs, 4 of Diamonds, 6 of Clubs

Table: King of Spades, Queen of Spades, 4 of Spades 7 of Clubs

Player 2: Jack of Spades, 6 of Diamonds, 7 of Hearts

Both players have a 6. There is a Queen on the table (A Queen is worth 9 points.) Player 1 has to play his 6 of Clubs. He sweeps the Queen (9+6=15). He picks up two cards and prevents Player 2 from using his 6 of Diamonds to take the Queen of Spades.

Player 1: King of Clubs 4 of Diamonds

Table: King of Spades, 4 of Spades, 7 of Clubs

Player 2 Jack of Spades, 6 of Diamonds, 7 of Hearts, Player 2 can use his Jack of Spades to sweep the 7 of Clubs. (A Jack is worth 8 points.) (8+7=15).

Player 1: King of Clubs 4, of Diamonds

Table: King of Spades, 4 of Spades

Player 2: 6 of Diamonds, 7 of Hearts

Player 1 has to play his King of Clubs or his 4 of Diamonds. This example will illustrate a principle difference between Quindici and Scopa. Given that Player one leads and Player 2 follows, the outcome is unavoidable.

If Player 1 plays his 4 of Diamonds, there will be two 4's on the table and Player 2 can use his 7 of Hearts to sweep the two 4's. (4+4+7=15).

Now there is only one card on the table, the King of Spades. Player 1 has the King of Clubs but given that the object in Quindici is to sweep cards that total 15, all Player 1 can do is put his King of Clubs on the table.

Note: If Player 1 had played his King of Clubs first, then Player 2 would have played his 6 of Diamonds first and then after Player 1 played the 4 of Diamonds, Player 2 would pick up the two 4's on the table with his 7 of Hearts.

Remember: Who leads and who follows will greatly affect the outcome of the hand and the game. You must keep card sequences in mind as you play. It is best to play them out in your head before you make your play.

If this were a closed game, you would not know that Player 1 had a King and a 4. Remembering what cards have been played is very helpful. It is not an easy skill to develop but if you play cards enough it almost begins to happen by itself. This focused attention and use of the mind is one of the great benefits of playing cards.

Exercise 1

Player 1: King of Spades, King of Clubs, Ace of Diamonds

Table: 7 of Hearts, Jack of Hearts 6 of Clubs 5 of Hearts

Player 2: 6 of Diamonds, Queen of Diamonds, 7* of Diamonds

Player 1 has the Ace of Diamonds (1 point).

Player 2 has the 7* of Diamonds, the sette di bello.

There is a 7 of Hearts on the table, therefore at some point there could be two 7's on the table. Take the place of Player 1 and then Player 2.

Try to win the sette di bello as Player 1 playing first and then as Player 1 playing second.

Now take Player 2's cards and try to win the sette di bello (playing first and then playing second).

Exercise 2

Shuffle the cards and then deal them face up two at a time. As you flip the cards face up add the value of the cards as they come up, as quickly as you can.

Do this for the entire deck as quickly as you can. This exercise will help you to know the cards and their value in a particular game.

Another benefit to this exercise is if you are playing against someone who is trying to rush you into making a decision.

Knowing the cards well helps shield you from this kind of pressure.

If you have decided to use Italian Playing Cards and you have never played with them before, this exercise will help you become familiar with the cards and help your decision making during a game.

If you have decided to learn a little Italian, counting the cards in Italian will help you learn the numbers and how to 'add in Italian'.

10-card Scopone (Scopone Scientifico)

I have enjoyed paying this game with my friends in Napoli. The version I am going to teach you is the one they taught me. Basically, it is the same as Scopa but you have a partner. It's a four handed game.

Choose the first dealer. This could be done cutting the high card.

Turn to deal passes to the right after each hand.

The dealer shuffles. The dealer's left opponent cuts the cards

Five cards face down to each player (counter clockwise, beginning with the player to dealer's right), then five cards more to each player.

The entire deck has been dealt.

Each player has ten cards.

The player to dealer's right plays first, and the turn to play passes counter clockwise, until all the cards have been played.

A turn consists of playing one card face up to the table.

This card may capture one or more of the cards on the table.

In the event of a capture, both the played card and the captured card(s) are taken and placed face down in front of one of the members of the team that 'took the trick'.

If there is no capture, no trick, the played card remains face up on the table.

In either case the turn then passes to the next player.

How to Take a Trick

If the rank of the card played matches the rank of a card on the table, a table card, the card on the table is captured. (Example: A King can take another King, A 3 can take another 3, and so on.)

If the card played matches more than one card on the table, (Example: There are two 5's on the table and a 5 is played) then just one of the matching table cards is captured. The player taking the trick chooses which card.

As in Scopa, if the card played does not match any of the cards on the table but its value is equals the sum of two or more cards on the table, then that set of cards is captured. (Example: There is a 3 and a 6 on the table. You play a 9. You can take the 3 and the 6 with your 9 [3+6=9].)

If for example there were a 7,2, 3 and 6 on the table. The player of the 9 can choose which set of cards he wants to take.

If the card played does not match any of the cards on the table or sum, then there is no capture and the played card remains face up on the table.

If all the cards are swept off the table, that is a 'Scopa' and the card use to make the Scopa is placed face up in the stack of captured cards. Each Scopa equals one point.

Important things to remember:

You are not obligated to play a card that could take a trick. You my think it is better to hold that card back for a later play but if the card you do play can take a card or cards, then those cards must be taken.

Just like in Scopa if the card you play matches a single card on the table and also equals the sum of two or more cards, you must take the matching card.

After all the cards have been played, the last player to take a 'trick' also takes any face up cards remaining on the table.

Scoring

21 or more points wins the game.

If there is a tie then the game is continued until one team wins.

OK, now there are many ways to make points. To keep things simple; you can use the same rules you learned for Scopa.

There is bonus called Napoli you may wish to add to your scoring, it is the equivalent of drawing to a straight flush in poker.

If you and your partner take the ace, two, and three of diamonds (This would be denari or coins in an Italian deck) that team would get points equal to the highest card in the unbroken sequence. So; if you and your partner got the ace, two, and three of diamonds, you get 3 points. If you and your partner got the ace, two, three of diamonds, four of diamonds, five of diamonds and six of diamonds, your team gets 6 points.

You may want to include this bonus in your scoring. If you and your partner capture all ten diamonds in a single hand, you win the game.

You know you earn one point for the sette di bello, the seven of diamonds. In some variations a point is also award to the team that captures the Re di bello, the King of Diamonds.

Personally, I enjoy adding the bonus points because it adds another element to your consideration when playing cards and taking tricks.

la premiera

In my research of different ways to calculate la premiera I've read that in southern Italy it is common to use the values king = 10, horse (queen) = 9, jack = 8 when comparing primes, rather than valuing all court as 10. It rarely makes a real difference, because normally la premiera is decided on 7's, 6's and Aces.

I hope you will give these games a try. You may also be interested in D's Guide to Italian Card Games available at Smashwords. You will learn how to play Tresette, Briscola, Sette e Mezza, and Orologio.

**Tresette** (Three Sevens) is a trick taking game. You will learn the rules, basic and advanced strategy. This is a very popular game in Napoli. I'll teach you two versions. It's a great way to exercise your memory and enjoy some time with friends.

**Briscola** is a trick taking game that can be played one on one or with partners. There are 120 points in a hand of Briscola and if you decide to, you can become a master of this game if you commit to learning how to use the points that are out and the cards in your hand to know what is going to happen.

In Briscola it is illegal to signal your partner as to what cards you hold. That being said, it is a time honored tradition to signal your partner without the other team knowing it. I have included my own method for signaling your partner. It is based on the techniques of card sharpers of the 1930's.

**Sette e Mezza** (Italian Blackjack) This game is traditionally played at Christmas time. It is a fast paced betting game. When we were kids, we'd get a hand full of pennies each and play cards for money just like the grown ups.

**Orologio** (The Watch) This is a betting game that gets it's name because the cards are placed face up in a circle. This is a fast paced betting game based completely on luck.

Angelo's Bar Bets

This Bar Bet was a famous swindle of a 1930's con man who shall go nameless here. I doubt he was the guy who came up with the swindle but from what I was able to learn about him, he had no problem pulling it on suckers.

This falls into the 'if it's too good to be true' category. It's the psychology of it that is most telling to me. The bettors think they are taking advantage of a guy who has had one too many. For the con man, I suppose, that is his justification for taking the suckers.

I'm not suggesting you try to swindle strangers but I think if you stage this right, you'll give your friends something to remember and talk about forever. Like many great things, the secret is very simple and if you give it away, the wonder is gone and you go from amazing to ordinary in a heart beat, so keep that in mind when someone asks you how you did it.

The bet in its original form went this way. A friendly stranger wanders into a bar. He had a few already. He helps himself to some peanuts on the bar, orders a drink and then says something like "What the hell, buy a round for the boys at the bar'. Keep in mind this wasn't just any bar, no dive, nothing like that. A country club bar would be more like it.

So anyway, this guy is funny, has lots of stories and buys another round. Finally; he gets around to telling how one time he threw a peanut over the roof of a bar.

"Hold on now. You're telling us you threw a peanut over the roof of a bar! That's impossible."

"I did it once and I can do it again and I'm willing to put my money where my mouth is. I got $--- that says I can throw this peanut...". He reaches into the basket of peanuts on the bar and pulls one out. "Over the bar right now. Here's my $--- who's in?" He'd stand up with his money in one hand and the peanut in the other.

This to me is where the psychology comes in. The men at the bar think 'well this guy seems to have money and losing $--- isn't going to hurt him'. Maybe some of the men were thinking 'hell if this guy wants to lose his money I'm happy to take it'.

The bets are taken. The boys walk outside and sure enough the peanut goes flying. The drunk guy collects his money.

How did he do it?

Remember this is something this guy actually had the nerve to do. In his time, it was not unusual for there to be baskets of peanuts on the bar. He came to the bar with his own peanut; one that had been shelled. the peanuts were replaced with split shot, those weights you put on fishing line, although any weight you can put in the peanut will do. The shell was glued back together. When the time came the 'drunk' reached into the basket to take a peanut but what he really did was pull his peanut out. It had been in his hand. (Although if you had the nerve you could drop your peanut in the basket as you took one and then take it back later.

True story, believe it or not and the best part is the evidence went flying over the roof!

Old School Sports Bet

I'll bet you can't tell me what former newspaper boy, born in Campania, Italy, who fought under the name: Young Corbett III. He won the:

Welterweight Champion of the World

Middleweight Champion of the World

Answer: Raffaele Capabianca Giordano

May 27, 1905 - July 15, 1993

124 wins (32 KOs), 12 losses 15 draws 0 no contest

About the Author

Thank you for buying my e-book. I hope you enjoyed it! I always loved old gangster movies, the funny papers, comic books, baseball, boxing, cigars, history, the Art of Magic, and all things Italian.

The idea for Angelo Di Carini came to me one foggy night in San Francisco.

I was walking home, smoking a cigar, thinking about my family and days gone by. That's the night Angelo came to me.

It was a way to tell a story, remember my family and of growing up Italian – American.

After a tour of duty in the United States Air Force during the Vietnam War; I went to college on the G.I. Bill. After graduating from junior college, I enrolled at the University of Nevada at Las Vegas but ended up selling tricks behind the counter of a magic shop in Circus Circus Casino.

I went back to New York to finish college and discovered the great Close Up Magician Slydini and sought him out for lessons. The next eight years were spent in intensive study and practice of Slydini's Magic.

I began to perform in bars, in the tradition of Malini, which led to private party work, Trade Show and Hospitality Suite work.

These days I travel to Italy each year and particularly enjoy performing while speaking Neapolitan, the language of my childhood.

I'd be very interested in hearing about your upcoming Italian American events and /or business so I can share it with the Italian American Community.

Please look for my blog at: https://italianamericanlovestory.com/

D. Angelo Ferri

d.angeloferri@gmail.com

Other Books by D. Angelo Ferri

Angelo and Maria, an Italian American Love Story traces the lives of San Francisco private investigator Angelo Di Carini, his secretary Maria Ranieri, a local Italian Girl from North Beach, their friends and family; from 1937, to the Bombing of Pearl Harbor, the Interment of Italians in America during 1942, to the early days of World War Two.

Angelo consults with San Francisco Homicide Detective; Michael Brody. Their collaboration is based upon their mutual love of cigars, whiskey, and their deep resentment of corruption. Angelo and Michael hate big shots; 'small timers' who prey on the weak, and blood sucking politicians.

My stories are inspired by my childhood memories of growing up Italian American, my interest in World War Two, Sports; Baseball, Boxing and Horse Racing in particular, political corruption, San Francisco in the 1930's and 1940's, cigars, and the comics; Dick Tracy, Batman, Little Orphan Annie, and Terry and the Pirates. I invite you to imagine yourself in 1930's San Francisco. Its midnight, the fog is blowing in. You flip up the collar of your overcoat and adjust your hat. You hear the sound of the cable car bell cutting through the night when suddenly...

D's Guide to Italian Card Games

You will learn how to play Tresette, Briscola, Sette e Mezza, and Orologio.

**Tresette** (Three Sevens) is a trick taking game. You will learn the rules, basic and advanced strategy. This is a very popular game in Napoli. I'll teach you two versions. It's a great way to exercise your memory and enjoy some time with friends.

**Briscola** is a trick taking game that can be played one on one or with partners. There are 120 points in a hand of Briscola and if you decide to, you can become a master of this game if you commit to learning how to use the points that are out and the cards in your hand to know what is going to happen.

In Briscola it is illegal to signal your partner as to what cards you hold. That being said, it is a time honored tradition to signal your partner without the other team knowing it. I have included my own method for signaling your partner. It is based on the techniques of card sharpers of the 1930's.

**Sette e Mezza** (Italian Blackjack) This game is traditionally played at Christmas time. It is a fast paced betting game. When we were kids, we'd get a hand full of pennies each and play cards for money just like the grown ups.

**Orologio** (The Watch) This is a betting game that gets it's name because the cards are placed face up in a circle. This is a fast paced betting game based completely on luck.

