 
# Arist Olu Ajagbe

Sergeant Salako

**************

Sergeant Salako

Copyright © 2019 Arist Olu Ajagbe

Sergeant Salako

By Arist Olu Ajagbe

ISBN:

Smashwords Edition

This eBook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This eBook may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you're reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to your favorite eBook retailer and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hardwork of this author.

Web: www.blazewaypublishers.com

E-mail: flaminglamps@yahoo.com

Tel: +2348023789752; +2347063135556

First Published 2019

All Right Reserved

This book may not be reproduced in any form, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form by any means-electronic, mechanical, photocopy, recording or otherwise without prior written permission of the author and publisher, the use of short quotations for personal or group study is permitted and encouraged.

Published to Smashwords.com by **Sergeant Salako**

**************

# DEDICATION

I dedicate my first book to God Almighty who has blessed me with creative writing skills and an unending seal to express it; and to Emerald, my beautiful daughter.

***************

# Table of Contents

Chapter One

Chapter Two

Chapter Three

Chapter Four

Chapter Five

Chapter Six

Chapter Seven

About the Author

Other Books By the Same Author

Author's Connects

**************

# Chapter One

A bright day, a monument, colourful uniforms, merry hearts, melodious songs, singing and drumming with security men fully armed in their hundreds, and a big executive Masquerade in town; a perfect combination for today's celebration in Ama Agwu community. Pupils of different schools coloured either sides of the new Freeman road down to Ama Agwu village centre where His Excellency, Governor Nduka Benjamin is expected to officially open two projects, a community hall and a primary health centre. Security men have been on ground since the early hour of the day; helicopters hovered around in the air to the amazement of kids and villagers.

The decorated scissors have cut the ribbons. That was the first assignment Governor Ben carried out as soon as he arrived about fifty minutes ago. Market women, political party members and other lovers of the good works the governor is doing gathered in front of the newly commissioned community hall, singing and dancing. They were all lost in rapturous praise in gratitude to the young dynamic governor.

In the new Ama Agwu community hall, His Royal Highness, Igwe Francis Chidi, his two queens, members of the chief council, reputable businessmen, commissioners, senators pressmen and some other stakeholders gathered with the governor of the State. Journalists were busy inquiring the motivations behind the young governor's unrelenting zeal for rural development. The last question came from a Mastery Studio Journalist.

"Your Excellency Sir, I must say very frankly that Nigerian youths within and around the world are proud of you. You have successfully proven to older Politicians that youths are truly leaders of today. In your very first year in office, with your, INNER CITY PROGRAM, you linked all communities in the state to the nearest federal roads. This unprecedented program opened up all communities in and around the state to business and rapid developments. Freeman and Umu-Agwu roads are products of that program, executed in this very community. More so, free quality basic education and free medical care are few of other laudable programs you are executing to the benefits of the masses. And, like other journalists have rightly mentioned, you pay salaries and pensions with ease, whereas, previous administrations would rather complain and excuse these responsibilities. Here is my question, Sir: what is your motivation? Is there what you see that old administrations did not see?"

I understand your plight, my brother. We have all witnessed several administrations and have seen politicians, public office holders and even civil servants who took the advantage of their offices to exploit the public. My motivation, (he smiles), as a public servant? Hun, I don't think I needed to be motivated to perform my responsibilities. Our people have suffered because we lacked these basic amenities. I saw them and they were parts of my campaign promises. So if there is any motivation at all, it is the fact that I must not fail those who saw how young I am, and still went against the norms, the cabals, and the powers-that-be to invest their votes in me." Governor Ben paused, as the audience cheered him with applauses and shouts of joy.

He looked over the people and continued: "As for what I see different from what other conventional politicians, I think you have a point. The answer is a role model. I am unfortunate to have been blessed with a role model whose height of compassion for fellow human is immeasurable. He didn't have much but loves people and always ready to help. He was a police officer, a sergeant in rank. And if I say he did not have much, you can imagine what he earned as salary about twenty, twenty-five years ago. Yet, with such paltry stipend, he fought and defended the helpless and fed the hungry. His standard, his values, his beliefs are the basics of my very being. Not to be harsh on myself, though, I have come a long way, I have recorded some achievements but until I measure up to, maybe half of his humanitarianism and philanthropies, I have not started."

As always, Governor Ben ignored the praises and gave his response in brief words. As soon as he answered the last question, he left the conference room, with standing ovation and applause. Pressmen tried to engage him in some more questions outside the hall but he won't wait a second any longer. He had so many other appointments to attend to. But as he was about stepping into his waiting convoy, a voice jumped through the crowd from the hindmost:

"Who is your role model, Governor Ben?" For a moment he paused, smiled, then gracefully slide into the opened door and they zoomed off.

The Governor was soon at his destination, where the first lady and her children were already awaiting his arrival anxiously. As Governor alighted, his beautiful wife, Clara, met him with affectionate smiles and muttered: "Darling, hum; twenty-five minutes late."

Governor Ben returned the smiles with a hug and apologised: "Oh Sweet, am so sorry. Very sorry".

"By the way, you know am not the one you are to apologise to. There stands your princess". She stylishly pointed to her pretty but face-frank daughter.

Governor Ben moved away from Clara and with fatherly smiles walked up to his daughter, knelt down before her, and pleaded: "Hello, Your Lordship; my Birthday Girl."

"Good. You have the right to remain silent because whatever you say will be held against you when we get back home." The Governors daughter stated light heartedly. They all smiled and laughed as the daughter fell on knees before her father.

Just then, Uzo came in to deliver a message: "Sir, Commissioner of Education on line 6."

"Uzo, how many times do I have to tell you that you should not interrupt me whenever am with my family?" Governor Ben reprimanded.

Uzo gave a sorry glance and added: "I explained to him but he said it is very important. Sir, I am sure it is all about the commissioning of the State Polytechnic today."

"Please transfer it to the table of the Deputy Governor." Ben instructed and turned to his people.

"Yes Sir". Uzo said as he hasted departing.

"Where are we, my people?" Governor requested.

"On our way out for a delicious launch to mark the Princess Birthday," answered his look-alike son.

"Has the Prince spoken your very mind, my Princess?" Ben probed further.

"Of course, he has. But Dad, mark well his word- delicious launch. That includes a birthday cake and a lot of candies and special gifts." The daughter remarked with all seriousness. And that set Clara, her mother on laughter extravaganza.

The Governor assured her: "It's all right. All will be included and more". He then dialled some numbers on the intercom: "Hello, Chef, please arrange a delicious birthday launch for my daughter. Yes, Princess. Thanks you. Yes with an admirable birthday cake. Her colour is pink. You should add a chocolate candy box. ". Princess gave a satisfied smile as he ended the call.

As he stepped aside and pulled his wife for a jolly discourse, Uzo came in again: "Your Excellency, Sir" he greeted.

"But I thought we agreed you won't come back in here again, at least for the next 30 minutes". Governor Ben snapped

"Sir, this is important". Uzo said emphatically

But Ben responded with a spark: "Look here, nothing can be more important than my family. Nothing is. You can see the first lady with me".

Uzo rather looked bolder and spoke further: "It is a call from Sergeant's wife"

"What? What is it?" Ben poked.

"She said Sergeant slummed in the bathroom this morning and has been unconscious since then". Uzo reported.

Governor Ben instantly became uneasy. Turning to one of the guards, he asked for his phone. And collecting it, he dialled. After the brief phone conversation, he turned to his daughter and pleaded: "Am sorry, Princess. You have to excuse me from this celebration".

He held Clara's two hands and said "Please, take good care of them".

He then instructed Uzo "Prepare a car, not a convoy; prepare a car to take me to the airport. Am flying to Lagos. Now!"

As they were held down in the gridlock that has held them down for more than an hour, the man in the owner corner kept watching the gathering crowd on other side of the express road. A bike rider and his client lady were lying in the pool of their own blood, with some sympathetic ones amid the crowd trying to get a vehicle to move them to a nearby hospital. He had seen them waving down oncoming cars to help the victims but none responded, perhaps for their fear of being implicated by the police afterwards. He was surprised when a Lexus Jeep parked, and out of it alighted a light complexioned man who dressed like an American cowboy. He saw as the tall, sporty built man walked up to the scene and asked the people to hurry the two accident causalities into his car. As soon as they did, he zoomed off.

Malik, the car owner, was about to relate to his driver the story of his own personal experience of an automobile accident 14 years ago, when the driver zoomed out of the heavy traffics. As they got closer to Lagos, he was becoming uncomfortable with the speed and had to warn the driver: "Driver, don't you think your speed is becoming too much!"

But before the driver could say a word, Maliks Personal Assistant, who sat at the front seat beside the driver, replied: "Sir, I instructed him to speed up. We are almost late for your flight".

"And when is the flight schedule?" Malik probed.

"It is 11a.m, Sir. And this is twelve minutes to. P.A answered. Then one of the phones in his hand rang. Sir,"

"You have a call. It is Sergeant".

Malik collected the phone and spoke with the caller. After answering the call, he said: Johnson, please reschedule my flight to Ebute Meta.

P.A., who was somehow taken aback responded "But, Sir, there is no airport in Ebute Meta. We can only fly at Muritala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja- Lagos"

But Malik interrupted with fury: "Do whatever you have to do, I must be in Ebute Meta as soon as I can".

It was the gathering of prominence; celebrities, successful business owners, politicians and other lovers of music across Africa have converged at the two thousand capacity hall of this prestigious five star hotel up there at the very heart of Lagos Victoria Island. These fun lovers have been entertained by several comedians and have danced to best of songs Africa has to offer, but its time for T-Praise to perform.

Amazement, excitements and applause as smiles flickered the faces of his audience. Though a blind man, T-Praise could play keyboard, guitar, and all kinds of musical instruments. He sang with utmost professionalism and skills fully in display. His voice, his notes, his tunes, his keys, modulations and best of all his messages are all on point. Wherever he performs, he wows his audience.

T-Praised has engaged his captives for the pass thirty minutes and their wishes were for him to remain on stage forever if that is possible. His manager and his personal assistant stood at the back stage, monitoring the whole affair. Suddenly, the manager's phone rang out and he answered the call: "Who? Sergeant? Did I hear you clear? You mean Sergeant? Oh my God! He exclaimed, shook his head, and continued. And please, where is he now? Okay. I will inform T-Praise as soon as I can. Thank you ma. Appreciate. Later". His countenance flashed worries as he hanged up.

"Sir, what happened to Sergeant?" His assistant queried, curiously.

"It is nothing serious; he has been taken to hospital". He answered.

"You said nothing serious, and he has been rushed to the hospital. I think something serious happened." PA retorted in doubt, fixing his gaze on the trouble face of the manager.

T-Praise finished performing and was walking up to them with a ground breaking ovation escorting him to the dress room at the back stage. Makeup artistes took over him with towels, wipers and body sprays. They made him sit and took over him. His manager handed him a bottle of water "That was a great performance" he commended as he gave him a pat at the back and came back to his possible.

The manager moved closer to his assistant and warned sternly "That is enough. Okay? T-Praise must not hear about it until he has concluded all the appointments we have today".

"Why?" Assistant asked

"He might decide to abandon everything and run to the Sergeant as usual". Manger answered back.

"But ... "He cut his word, noticing T-Praise paying attention.

"Will you shut-up?" Manager muttered to him.

But T-Praise seemed to have noticed something amiss. He dropped the bottle of water with one of the ladies and groped towards his employees. As soon as he got into their circle, he asked; "What is the matter?"

"Nothing so serious; we can talk about it after today's schedule answered the Manager.

T-praise, not satisfied, turned to Assistant and probed further "What is the argument about?"

Assistant responded "Someone called. But he feels we should not tell you until later today".

T-Praise, threw down his head and asked Manager "Now, tell me; who called?"

"Madam Nifemi. She said Sergeant was rushed to the hospital early this morning". Manager explained at last.

On hearing this, T-Praise flew up and snapped "So, Sergeant Salako's health is nothing serious right?"

"I was thinking it could affect your emotions and you may not be able to perform as you should. Remember, we still have two other appointments today". Manager: explained calmly but that only infuriated T-Praise further "You do so many things for me, now you want to do thinking for me" "Not really sir, I just feel we should not disrupt our schedule for today sir"

But still burning, T-Praise waited for his manger to conclude the narrations, then said raised his head, removed his dark sun-glass to review his two greyish retinas: "You are sacked". He then pointed to Assistant "You are my new manager. Straightway, arrange a flight to Lagos for me". He deeply became unsettled. Looking wildly, he said to the manager "If there is only one man worthy to be worshipped as my god \- the man is Sergeant Salako. Nothing stands between me and my Sergeant".

Tinuke stood by her car, shouting on her driver who was loading her things into the car to hurry up. Then of sudden, her phone rang and she answered:

"Dr. Andrew you know that's not possible. My leave started last week Thursday, but I remained at work till 2 a.m. today. Look here, the program am attending in Texas commenced yesterday. Already, I am on my way to the airport. You can always do with other doctors." She said to the man on the other end. And while Dr. Andrew was still talking, her other phone rang. She took permission to answer the second caller "Doctor, Sir, I need to pick a call. Please, I will get back to you".

She hanged up and picked the other call "Yes Sir, when am I speaking? Oh, no, that will not be possible. I have not left Nigeria still on my way to the airport. Yes, I will definitely be there. I will call you as soon as my flight arrives".

Her husband comes out with a file and said "Darling, won't you need these files?"

"Oh thanks dear. I have to go" Her phone rang again. She motioned to her husband and pleaded "Please dear, answer it for me. Tell whoever that I am on my way to the airport". Tinuke instructed.

"Hello, Madam Nifemi. You just said what? What happened to Sergeant?" Her husband asked the woman on the other end.

Tinuke, who had paused her movements as soon as she heard the mention of Sergeant, she snatched the phone from her husband and queried "What happened to Sergeant? Oh! My God. I will be there in no time" Perplexed, she called and the driver.

"I am here, Ma". Driver answered.

"Drive me straight to Ebute Metta" she ordered

"Ma, Ebute Metta or airport?" her driver tried to confirm.

But she got furious with him and raised her voice: "I said take me to Ilaje in EbuteMetta. Make a U-turn there. Now. They zoomed off".

Her phone rang again but it was with her husband. He answered the call "She is presently on her way to Ebute Metta I don't know yet but I can't tell you that nothing can stop her from seeing the man on the sick bed in Ebute Metta not her father, he is more than her father. If there is anything like god in human form, that is what Sergeant Salako is to my wife".

**************

# Chapter Two

It's a sunning day. While traffics have greatly diminished in numbers, many foot-travellers have gone to find some shelters from the hotness of the glimmering Sun. The record store, facing the Expressway at the other side of the government erected Bus-Stop, kept delighting the world with the latest labels of different melodic artists. But listeners were soon diverted by the sudden emergence of four teenagers, running wildly and covered with sweat. Behind them were some policemen, pursuing the grownups ferociously. All eyes were set on them, with several people coming out of their shops and offices to cast stare at them. The youngsters dangerous hurried across the expressway, with one of them almost knocked down by oncoming bus. And, the policemen, having waved down the traffics, dashed after them. Soon, both the runners and their chasers vent out of all staring eyes, and for more than half an hour after they were gone, people would not stop discussing it in the different clusters.

Malik was exultant as he looked through his car tinted glasses, seeing all the developmental transformation the Costain Roundabout has undergone since the last time he was here. He recalled the day policemen arrested him and his friends just at the junction adjacent the roundabout.

On that fateful day, Malik, Moyo, Moronke, Tinuke, Bayo and Tola were in Ben's gang. Ben would give them weeds to sell in exchange for some compensation. It was in this line of duty, inspector Ajayi's boys apprehended Malik and other young boys. Moyo was already crying when Malik calls her attention to Ben standing at the police station reception. A policeman at the desk was writing notes. Inspector Ajayi, the DPO, entered and the policeman saluted him:

"What is this one doing here?" asked Divisional Police Officer

Policeman responded "He came to bail his friends; those children that we caught smoking igbo".

DPO smiled and probed: "And how many are they?"

The Constable answered "Eight, Sir".

"How much did you call it for him?" DPO enquired further

"I told him to bring an adult, he cannot bail them since he is a minor" said the constable.

DPOs face turned red and he reproved "You are very stupid. Someone came here with money to bail prisoners and you want him to take it back". He faced Ben and asked "My dear, come closer, jare. You see, I will release each of them for N2, 000. But, if you are bailing all of them at once, you can pay N10, 000 only".

But Ben looked straight into his eyes and detailed "First, bail is free. Second, you are not permitted to lock anybody up for more than twenty-four hours without trials and you are not permitted under law to lock children of their age up in prison".

Unmoved by the minors stated facts, DPO boasted "Look here young man, I am Inspector Ajayi. As far as Abule Dodo is concerned, I am at the top of crime and security. I can do what I please".

Shigo came in angrily and shouted "Inspector, what came over you? What were you thinking when you entered Okeera and started arresting my guys?

"And what were you thinking when you were ignoring my phone calls? I sent my boys to you twice, You still did not turn up".

Shigo looked at him and answered back "Look here, I am a very busy man. You should know I am a king of a settlement. I chose who I want to talk to and whose phone call I would answer".

"I am the DPO of this community. I chose who I will arrest and who I will not. Shigo may be the king of Okeera and Apata the god of Isale-Odo, I, Inspector Ajayi, I am in charge of Abule Dodo. Both Shigo and Apata are under my command". DPO threw back.

But Shigo wasn't taken back. He bite back "Very soon. Yah, very, very soon. I will take over Isale-Odo and you and the whole of Abule Dodo will come to me".

"That must be in your dreams". The Police officer lampooned.

"We shall see. And, why did you want to see me?" he requested.

DPO laughed and disparaged "See you? Even if you were a lady, you are ugly I don't have any reason seeing you. Tomorrow is Ileya and your father has not bought his ram and you think you can enjoy yourself peacefully in your hut".

"I knew it". Shigo remarked and dropped a bundle of money on the table. In a huff, he battered "Alatenuje. Agbayaosi. I know that is what the greedy you wanted"

Happy, DPO assured "Yap. It's now you are talking. Your boys will be released to you immediately".

"You dare not. I will ask them to drop a ram and a bag of rice in your house as soon as they arrived". Shigo promised.

"Am releasing them now. Go and release those guys". DPO said hurriedly.

"Nonsense". Shigo responded and, as he turned to leave, Blade, one of Apatas boys came in. but Shigo slighted him and walked away.

Blade looked at Ben and asked "What are you doing here?"

"To bail my boys, of course, and this old man is demanding for stupid money from me". Ben answered.

"I will lock you up, if you are not careful". DPO warned

Blade laughed and boasted "You dare not. In fact, you cannot lock him up, he is Apata's boy, you know. Please, release those children to him now. And, how much are we talking about?"

Hearing how much the DPO hurriedly answered "N25, 000 only".

"But you said N10, 000. Didn't you?" Ben snapped and countered

"Leave the old man alone" said Blade. "It does not matter". He brought out an envelope from his pocket and flung it to Ajayi. "That is for your ram".

DPO grabbed it, ravenously and commended "That is why I love your Boss, Blade. I didn't want to disturb him because he gave me something last week. Apata always know the right thing to do at the right time".

"Please, be sure you release the kids to my boy. Charge the bail to our account". Blade demanded.

"Consider them released. I never knew they are your boys". DPO muttered. They were released immediately. That day, they walked the slums with their shoulders high.

Malik smiled as memories of Abule Dodo flashed back to him. He and other boys never knew who they were truly working for until then.

"So, Ben is Apata boy and we are working for Ben. It means we are big boys, little soldiers of Apata's Army God of Okera. Gone are the days, when men were boys". Maliks subconscious reminded him as they drive closer to Hospital where Sergeant Salako was laid.

That dispensation didn't last too long after then. First was the sudden transfer news of inspector Ajayi that quaked the clayey earth of Abule Dodo.

As the gossip had it- He was just entering his office when his phone rang, and he picked it. The phone conversation between him and an unidentified senior police officer lasted for about a quarter of an hour. Even behind the closed door of his office and as much as he tried to make the conversation secret, the naturally amplified voice of the inspector could be heard by almost all the detainees and officers on duties who cared to pay attentions. It could be noticed how his countenance turned unhappy, and he desperately implored the officer that he should help to avert the transfer.

"I wouldn't mind whatever it might cost me. Please, Sir, do all in your power to help me. I don't want the transfer now. Please, Oga".

He was still on phone call when a junior policeman entered, but he became uneasy when the Senior Officer on the phone answered "Sorry, Inspector. I don't think I can help. The transfer is directly from the IG office, national headquarters, Abuja. So, as you can see, there is nothing I can do about it". They both hanged up, as the conversation ended.

Ajayi's mind razed with such gloominess that he was unaware of the officer standing before his desk. Not until the officer spoke.

"Oga, I came to tell you that I have just been promoted. Bokunjo announced, with a face of radiant smiles".

But the DPO sounded out with a voice of terror "And you expect me to dance Fuji Garbage to that", the stunned inspector asked. "No sir, I just think I should...." "Will you get out? Noticing the confusing reluctance of the officer, he stood up in fury and roared: Are you deaf? I said, out!" Bokunjo turned in haste out of his office. Ajayi walked to the door, closed and locked it. He returned and fell on his seat like a log of wood, totally dejected.

**************

# Chapter Three

The cloudy cover that has bestridden itself over the sky since the dawning hour of the day was gradually offloading. As the day brightened up, the freezing effects of breeze started giving way to the blistering air, though the breezing Air Conditioner inside the convoy shielded them from the intense of the emerging heat of the noonday.

Governor Ben was sitting in the owner's corner of his car that was sent to pick him at the airport. A security man sat beside him with a gun, while his PA was at the front seat with the driver. There was a phone call, the PA answered it and was about to give it to him when the governor demanded.

"Is it an official call?"

"Yes, Sir, it is from"

The governor interjected, retorting "Wherever it is coming from, forward it to the Deputy Governors Table. I am off duty for now".

Uzo humbly agreed "Yes, Sir". He did as commanded, immediately.

Then, Governor Ben was strangely soliloquising "Hun The hectic life of a state governor; every second phone calls; meetings day and night; unending appointments; tight, busy schedules; all that aside family responsibilities". He paused as his eyes voyaged there and here, left and right. He continued talking to himself "Anyway, I'm getting used to it. It's the second year of my second term in office and I am already used to it. Sometime, a phone-call makes all the difference, especially today when I have to abandon my family, postpone my only daughter's birthday celebrations, cancel all official appointments, and turn my back on the state for one person. It is price so big, but so small to pay for Sergeant Salako".

For a while, he cupped his head in his left hand, thinking of Sergeant. He raised it up again trying to remember how he met Sergeant Salako and how everything about him had changed since then. He boasted in him mind as the memories came streaming in:

"At the time, when Abule Dodo was under the lordships of Apata and Shigo; Apata ruled Isale Odo while Shigo was the god of Okeera; I, Ben was at the middle of it all - on duty for my boss, Apata. One man was at the top overseeing both the crime and the law in Abule Dodo. He is Inspector Ajayi. Everything seemed normal: fighting, raping, smoking, drugs, killing. Hooliganism at its peak, all were normal at Abule dodo until the Sergeants arrival".

Apata and Shigo were battle-axes of the falling ghetto king, Owoblow who had ruled Abule Dodo for many years until some politicians sponsored Apata to betray his master. Apata sold out Owoblow, got so much money for this act and a throne as the new king of the ghetto. Shigo was not happy with this. So, he rebelled against Apata but could not unseat this new king. Shigo formed a parallel kingdom at the extreme of the community where he ruled with others who were still faithful to him and the falling Owoblow. So, the war had been long fought, and seemed there was no end in view. Everybody was wrong.

Woolly smokes veiled their faces as Apata sat in the midst of certain young, pretty ladies, while his boys were standing close-by. He was heavily drunk, and like they say, drug addiction is like the plight of a maiden's first love, the more it hurts the more you want it. Apata would never have enough of those spirits in the bottles and of course, the smoky little sticks are his companion. He looked weak, powerless and useless. Yet, Apata was a warlord that never threw down his guards. He was a traitor, thus, he never trusted anybody. Everybody that mattered in his team had somebody else monitoring them unknowingly and reports got to Apata unhindered.

Pretty young girls were all over him. Blade and few other boys were gambling by the corner. Strategically positioned, Ben was sitting on a fence, quite a distance from Apata and others when he noticed Shigo's boys approaching. Secretly, he sent a message to Apata. Immediately Apata received the message, he picked his gun, alerted his boys and hurriedly excused himself from the girls and ran away. Just then, Shigo's boys arrived and started throwing bottles and chopping people with machete. Shigo arrived on a bike with a gun in his hands.

Their intention was to catch Apata's boys off guard but they failed. It was a case of fire for fire and the sad news for Shigo's boys was that their prime target wasn't at the point. So the attempt was futile for them but the fight instantaneously created a helter-skelter environment. Confused populaces either ran into their houses or took to their heels until they could find protection. The fight soon became a free-for-all war, with both sides wielding guns, cutlasses, knives, clubs and other dangerous weapons. In-no-time, the rowdy streets were bloodstained.

Few days later, Chief Bola Benson came to make peace between Apata and Shigo. As the two warlords shook hands, Ben stood at a distance, observing.

"Never! I will never submit to a traitor. You are far behind me in rank and nobody brought me to this land, I was born and raised here. You cannot come from..."

"Enough!" Apata halted Shigo's rants and took over. "Because I don't accept to come follow you dialogue come give you permission to come dey tell me history. If them born you here how that take concern me. You think say I be local champion? My territory spread all over Lagos cross border. You know how many garage me don fight collect? You know how many politicians me be their back bone for election campaign and riot? How I take eliminate Owoblow, you think say the connection na from inside this ghetto? Who you think say you dey follow talk? Your father! Who know you for Girikiri? Who know you for...?"

"That is okay Apata" Chief Bola Benson tries to stop the argument. "We are here to settle the fights not for all these arguments" He added. "Then tell him to peacefully step down for me or we do a proper election!" Shigo made him suggestions more like a command but Apata was quick to rebuff

"Your father, your father father, nobody for your generation can make me step down"

"Then be ready to die"

"Who go kill me?"

"Na me go kill you"

"Look here. I dey tell you in front of your godfather. If I see you for anywhere on this ghetto dey collect money for any junction, I will delete you"

The argument became so hot that Chief Bola Benson had to give up trying to reunite the duol.

In the slum community, at Akoran junction, Shigo's boys were collecting money from market women, petty goods hawkers and public motorcycle riders. This was the same junction Apata hard strongly affirmed belonged to him and that nobody from Shigo's camp should trade. Ben stood on the dunghill a little distance from the junction as he sent message to Apata. Soon enough, Apata's boys arrived and the battle continued.

As expected, buying, selling and every other official activity was suspended, the next on agenda for these people was to reach home or find safety wherever. Ben and his gang watched the drama from top of the dunghill. That was the first day he saw this bold, courageous and super police officer, Sergeant Salako.

The tall young police officer rode into the pandemonium on his motorcycle, with his little luggage tied to the back of the old two-wheeled ride. Unlike every other officer in that uniform, Ben observed that this man didn't take to his heels. The strange figure on the bike fixed his gaze on the teenagers smoking and drinking on the fences along his path. He stopped at the boiling Akoran junction, brought out a gun and shot twice into the air before he saturated the air with tear gas. He nevertheless rode on towards the police station.

On his arrival at the station, Sergeant Salako alighted and untied his bags. Two policemen quickly came to his helped. He introduced his self to them briefly and informed them that he has been posted to Abule Dodo Police Station to take over from Inspector Ajayi.

As the meeting rounded up, the new DPO gave his first order. He pointed to Bokunjo and three others: You, you, you and you, pick your guns and go and effect the arrest of those boys that are fighting down there in the slum. But one of policemen was trying to tell him that the warring was a normal scenario in the community. Its the normal state of life among the young boys in this slum. They fight every day, anytime. It is only when the fights get too much that we arrest and lock them up. Salako, hearing that, commanded them to follow him as he led the operation.

Now listen to me. I will not condone any of such hooliganism in this community. Let's go now and stop this nonsense. He said as he led his subjects on his first assignment as the DOP of Abule Dodo community.

The men soon invaded the ghetto nooks and crannies, arresting everybody suspected. They arrested Shigo and his boys. They arrested Apata and his boys. They swept the streets of the slum off anybody aimlessly locking around the darkness. It was a harvest of such, first of its kind in a rememberable past.

First thing the following morning, Chief Benson was in Salakos office to bail the boys that were arrested: Name the price, I will pay it. All I want is their release.

Sergeant Salako looked at him with a smile and said: Chief, bail is free. I will soon release them because we can't really point the real culprit out of them. We arrested everybody we saw; there is possibility of having innocent ones among.

Wow! I can't believe this. I am hearing this for the first time. Bail is free? Chief re-joined with astonishment.

Almost every house, every hut and every store from Abule Dodo and its environs were represented as the drizzling rain showered on the crowd. It was a big show of sort as Apata and Shigo, with all the boys were on their knees in front of the station, right under the sun. Amazement and disbelief was visible on he faces of the people. DPO Salako and Chief Benson stepped out and stood before them.

Addressing the suspects, Salako said "I understand that some of you are innocents. We are sorry for that. We did what we have to do to stop the fights. Am so sure the major culprits of these unrest and killings are among you, right here; and that is why we are not regretting our action. Nevertheless, we will release you. Now, I want you all to listen good; listen attentively. There is a new dawn in Abule Dodo. That should sound to you a grave warning. No more unchecked hooliganism in this community. Nobody will save you from the hand of law the next time you are caught. Thank you."

As the DPO ended his speech, he instructed the OIC to arrange for their release and walked back into his office. But the Chief was following him. As he entered the office, he assured: Your boys are released. You can go, I think.

Thank you, DPO. Please accept these little gifts as a token of my appreciation. He said as he extended a brown envelop but Salako rejected the offer. The chief was embarrassed.

"Could his be real?" That was the question on mind as he made his way back to his car. He sat behind the wheels for a while. He knew the rules - no gifts, no favours. As long as a policeman does not accept gifts, he cannot be controlled. "This new DOP who has rejected favours from me might not be ready to offer me favours. Is end of my dynasty approaching? "

Some weeks after, Sergeant Salako was riding on his motorbike, passing through a major checkpoint when he noticed Ben with a schoolbag entering the bush. The young man careful looked around to be sure nobody was looking at him before he proceeded into the woods carefully. Sergeant Salako stepped down from his bike and he followed him, detectibly. They walked for few minutes before Salako found a Policeman standing afar of, waiting for Ben. Ben walked straight to the waiting policeman, exchanged few words and later exchanged their bags. The sergeant then stormed the meeting and arrested them. When he opened the bags, money was found in one, and guns were found in the other.

"Give me names and the whereabouts of your contacts. Who are you sending the boy to? You have to open up to me if you want to get yourself out of this trouble." Persuaded the Policeman as soon as they got back to the police station.

"I understand, Sir. The truth is, I don't know who have been sending the boy to me. It was Inspector Ajayi who connected me to him." Policeman answered politely. Salako looked at the man for a while. He was getting frustrated already. He looked at Bokunjo who has been standing by "Prepare his papers, we are filing it to court". "Yes Sir" Bokunjo replied with a week salute. "Bring the boy to my office immediately". The DOP gave the command and walked out of the room.

Ben was becoming uncomfortable with the silence in the room. He was expecting some actions, some tortures and has made up his mind he would never say a word no matter the beatings. He was so confidence that Apata will soon arrange for his release. Money, connections, or violence, Apata would spare nothing to save him from the police detection. Ben smiled and said in his mind "This man doesn't know who he is playing with" Salako looked at him for a while, he could not imagine why Ben has remained faithful to his evil lord. Salako could not imagine why a brilliant teenager like this could choose crime above a decent life. He has tried all he could to retrieve information from this boy but the lad has refused. So he decided to show the young creature some love. He asked that the lad be fed the lad with bread and a sachet of water. He kept watching the lad with pity as Ben continue to eat without saying a word.

"How old are you?" The sergeant asked without lifting his head from the papers on the table. Ben waited for a while. In his mind, he wasn't ready to answer any question but this question sound harmless and the tone with which it was conveyed was convincing "Am sixteen years old" He confessed. "Most smarts kids at your age are either in the university or trying to secure admission. Would you rather go to prison or school?"

"Whatever I chose, it is none of your business" Ben replied bluntly but Salako was quick to correct him "That's where you are wrong. It is my business to make sure that only real offenders go to prison. I know you are not the one that is using the guns, give me the name of that criminal and I will allow you to go home". Ben smiled "That is not possible and you know it." Salako regarded him for a while. He was getting angry and yet, pity the young man in front of him. "It is understandable to be afraid my boy. But don't worry, no matter who the person is, you are safe here. Just tell me the person's name and how I can get to him." Sergeant reassured the lad but the boy seemed to know what the officer did not know "You should be afraid. If you are new in this ghetto ask other policemen. I know they have been calling you and have extended some offered to you but pride won't allow you to listen. The last option may be violence. My people will stop at nothing to bring you down". "Really, that's scary but am not afraid. I will make sure those guys are locked up in prison or I die trying." Salako made his reply as emphatic as possible. He then passed the instruction to the policeman standing by the table "Take him back. Put him in an empty room. Let me know in case anybody asks for him". "Yes sir" The junior officer saluted his DPO and took Ben away. Salako waited for few seconds after the officer had left with Ben before he hit the table in front of him. He paced the room for awhile before he went back to his seat.

That same day in the evening. Salako was closing, he stepped out of his office when he saw a a policeman Coming with Ben. They walked straight to the reception and Salako followed them. At the reception a young girl was waiting for them with food flask. "What's happening here?" The DPO asked "This lady identified herself as Ben's sister and has brought food for him" Bokunjo explained. "But I instructed you to inform me in case anybody asks of him". "Yes sir, but..." "That's all right" Salako interrupted Bokunjo who wanted gives excuses for his disloyalty. "What's your name dear?" Salako asked he little girl "Romoke but my friends call me Romi" she explained. "Romoke! How come you are Ben's sister and your brother is Ibo?" "Em, em, it is because we are... actually we are" "Alright, alright" Salako excused her from unnecessary explanations and gave her a simple order. "Taste the food and give the rest to your brother" The lady complied and ate two spoons of the rice. "Drink some of the water and take a bite from each of the two meats" she complied without any hesitation. "Alright then, you can give him the food" She then quickly submitted the items to Ben along with a two apples. "Are those apples for him as well?" Salako questioned Romoke and she replied with traces of fear in her voice "Yes sir". "Why didn't you show me before?" He probed further and Romoke explained with guilt expressed on her face. "Alright, bite each of the two apples".

Romoke froze to her toes. She could not eat the apples and she could not say a word. When it was clear that something was wrong Sergeant Salako ordered that she should be locked up in a cell. That was when she broke into tears and confessed that she was sent to poison Ben. Tears streamed down Ben's bold face. The room was saturated with confusion, pity and fear of imminent danger.

"Romi, so you can afford to kill me?" Ben eventually found his voice "Am so sorry, Ben. I am sorry. Blade said they will kill me if I refuse". The duo chorused the cries in a way that attracted pity from the law enforcement agents standing by.

"Romoke" The Sergeant finally broke the chain, "This is an attempt murder and I am supposed to lock you up". "Please sir. I am very sorry sir. Ben is my friend but they threatened to kill me if I didn't do it" She pleaded and for the first time that evening, sincerity could be noticed in her tone. "I will allow you to go on one condition" Salako tried to make his offer emphatic as much as possible. "I will do it sir. Please don't arrest me sir" "You will throw the food away and take the empty flask back to your people. Let them know that you have delivered the message, Ben ate the food and everything went as they have planned it" Salako made the narration as clear as possible. "No problem sir, I will tell them" she accepted. "Calm down and make sure they did not suspect anything". Salako Instructed further.

He then asked that the food, water and fruits be kept as an exhibit in the police station. An empty flask was returned to Romoke and she was allowed to go. Sergeant Salako also ordered that a police officer should trail the girl to find out who sent her. After that, he dispersed that gathering. Bokunjo was taking Ben back to cell when Salako had a second thought he called them back and excused the police officer.

It was obvious Ben was still in shock. This was not the same bold Ben Salako spoke with in the morning. He was afraid. He was disappointed. He was now ashamed to stand in front of the same man he had ranted all day. Salako waited awhile before he spoke "Now I am afraid. I knew my life was at stake but I could withstand it. I won't forgive myself if anything happens to you". Salako waited for Ben to respond but the young man was too weak to make a word. So the Sergeant decided to continue "You are not safe here Ben. Am not sure I can trust these guys around. Will you like to come to my place with me?" Ben welcomed the idea with a little smile in his face already soiled with tears.

It was dark in the nights but life in the slum was just at its peak. The streets were filled with young boys and girls in groups and clicks. Lights from different houses, shops and stores twinkled like stars. Music banging from different angles. Fun lovers were catching fun at different joints by the roads. Young boys and girls walked around in different numbers and groups. As soon as Sergeant Salako appeared with Ben on his motorcycle two unidentified gun men started shooting from their hidings. Salako increased his speed and tried to dodge the bullets. Everybody around were also running so, it helped the trained police officer to take cover.

Salako did not stop until he got to safety. He then noticed blood dropping from the bike, by the time he looked back, Ben was already dying. He was shot twice in the encounter.

**************

# Chapter Four

The sinister bank of cloud suddenly gave way to the east wind; a restless, noisome force blowing wild and plaguing beings and things. It all became black, so blackly that none could see his or her neighbour without the help of mortal lights. This successfully installed a sense an ill-omened when heaven opened its windows and refreshed the earth with torrential fall. The rain hardly ended when the west wind began to sweep through the land. Then, the sky displayed its brightness, rejoicing. Ben for example knew it was a sign of a new dawn in Abule Dodo, but toward extend the change will go, he never could tell.

Ben was admitted, and yet in coma on his hospital bed. Sgt. Salako was standing by him, armed with a gun secretly stocked in his band.

Ben suddenly started opening his eyes, slowly, and seeing this, the Sergeant got closer and sat by his side.

Take care, Ben. Take it easy. You'll be okay. He prayed.

Oga, I want you to arrest Apata as soon as possible. Ben stammered.

"I will deal with that later. I just want to be sure you are safe. He replied.

But the fact is: I cannot be safe as long as Apata is out there. He is afraid I will talk. Ben added.

Salako agreed: That is true; very true. Do you know anything that will be useful?

Ben nodded: Yes, I do. Everything - the hideouts, godfathers, sources of weapon, evidences against him. I will tell you everything.

I am listening. Tell me about it, all Salako demanded.

Two days after Ben's confession, Apata and his boys were seen handcuffed, as they were being hurled into a waiting police van. Sergeant Salako stood by, commanding every action.

After the hectic work of the day, Sergeant Salako returned to the hospital about the evening. He spoke to Ben for hours like a friend as though, they have been friends and age mates for years. After about three hours of chats. Salako threw it at young Ben: "What brought you into this? Ben sighed and paused for a while before he gave his response.

I made seven credits in my O level, including Math and English. My parents are farmers in a local village in Abia state. In pursuit of a University Education, I came to Lagos to look for my Uncle. I was filled with dreams. But the situation I met my Uncle was not encouraging. It does not look like he could help me. So, I decided to struggle on my own. I started selling things in traffic and money was coming in until one day I was arrested by the police for selling in traffic, which according to them, is against the law. I was locked in police cell along with others, without trial. It was there that I met Apata, who promised to offer me a job. He arranged for my bail and I was out."

Compassion ran through Salako and he remarked: Huh, what a sad story! When will you go back to your village?

"It will be a big shame to go back to the village like this. I want to make it here in Lagos before I go back. He replied

And what will you do now?" Sergeant Salako asked further.

Ben looked at him, shyly and said: I want to go back to school. But you have destroyed my only hope.

Salako smiled: You can still go back to school. I will try my best. I promise."

About three weeks after, Sergeant Salako went to the market to pick some groceries when he saw Obatola, a blind little boy, singing and begging for money in the market. He fell in love with his melodious voice, and how skilfully he beat the old drum. He then dropped N200 in the bowl. But he was shocked seeing a boy standing by took the money almost immediately. "How come you picked the money I just gave to him?" Salako quizzed the strange boy in anger.

But the little boy, Dapo, defended his action: "I am not a thief, Sir. I am his friend. I usually keep the money for him. If people see big money like N200 in the bowl they will not want to give us money. They will think we have plenty money already. That is why we only keep N10, and N20 in the bowl".

Salako smiled at the pranks of the little folks and walked away.

A day after, Ben was bored and decided to take a stroll. He found Malik and other homeless children in the slum, smoking and he decided to join them. They were happy to see him again. Though there were news that Ben escaped the attacked but his friends did not really believe it until now. Unfortunately for Ben, his new handler, Salako, suddenly arrived and bumped on him, snatching the cigarette from off his hand.

"You cannot continue like this if you want me to help you. Do you get me right?" The DPO chastised. Ben was very angry. He felt like attacking the man in front of him but he reminded himself that the old man meant well for him. Salako was waiting for Ben to say something when he was distracted by some kind of noise from behind him and he turned, he saw Obatola and Dapo fighting over money. "Eh, you two, what is happening between you?"

Dapo, in his fury, challenged the sergeant "What is your business in our matter?"

Ben walked up to him and gave him a hot slap on the face "What did you just say? Will you answer the question before I bulldoze?"

Dapo busted in tears, crying and complaining "I am the one that has been helping him. I will give him food and cloth. I will repair the drum, and yet, he will be fighting me over money all the time".

"Dont mind him. He only gives me food once in a day and takes me to market to beg for money. When I make money, he will spend the money on smokes and drinks and clothes"

"Do you smoke?" Dapo interjected. He then turned to Sergeant Salako and Ben "Look, if I give him cigarette to smoke or bear to drink, he will say he does not smoke and drink".

Ben wanted to beat him again but Salako stopped him.

The sergeant patted Dapo by his shoulder and said "You can go".

Dapo started walking away, arrogantly. Then, at a distance, he turned his face and sent word to Obatola; "You will come back to me when you are hungry. I bet you, you will cry for hunger". Ben wanted to run after him but he ran faster away. "Just let him go" Salako instructed him.

It was Sunday noon, throng of people were coming out of the church. Salako, Ben and Obatola stood by the church gate, waiting for the choirmaster. After about a half of an hour, he eventually showed up.

"Sergeant, please, I am very sorry for keeping you waiting Sir." Choirmaster made an apology.

Salako answered politely "There is no problem, Sir".

Choirmaster moved closer and said "Sir, you said you wanted to see me".

"Yes, please meet my brother, Obatola. He is a very talented singer, with a good voice. I met him begging in the market yesterday. I believe his future will be brighter if he can learn how to play musical instruments. You certainly can be of help sir. DPO requested".

Choirmaster was trying to exchange greeting with the boy "Hello, my brother" Noticing his indifference to his anticipated handshake, he asked the Sergeant "Sir, is he blind?"

"Yes, he is" Salako answered.

Choirmaster pondered a minute and said "well, it may be difficult but I will try my best. If not for anything, I will do it for your good works in the community". They all shook hands and parted ways.

The three man team walked down the slummy paths of Okera towards Sergeant Salakos abode when they met a young man in youths corps uniform. The sergeant greeted the young man and introduced his self. The man also introduced his self as Toyin. "I told you of a brother of mine is preparing for JAMB".

"Yes, you did" Toyin affirmed.

He pointed to Ben and said "This is him. Please, I want you to take him on private coaching. It is not going to be free, I will find something for you".

"There is no problem, Sir" Toyin assured, cheerfully and pulled Ben closer.

Salako continued "Also, I will like you to help me with this one as well. His name is Obatola. I want him to be able to read and write".

"He can join our other student in the after school tutorial class we organised in the school where I serve. I will then take him on special tutorial based on his performance in the class". Toyin counselled.

Salako agreed "That is very good. I am grateful"

A month into his training, Obatola was seen playing instruments in the church. Choirmaster stays at the door watching him with amazement. He picked his phone and dialled Sergeant Salako's line.

"You are very right about your boy, Sir. He is a natural instrumentalist, highly gifted. I have barely shown him few of the basics, that is all, and he got it. To my amazement, he started playing like professionals. He now compose songs on his own; sing and play keyboard at the same time" Choirmaster commended.

Salako sat in office, listening to Chukwuma, who stood before him "Sir, I swear, my brother does not know anything about the fight. Those men were drunk and they started fighting over a small girl. That's all. Your boys came and arrested everybody"

"I understand, we will release your brother to you. You will write a statement and fill some documents and he can follow you home". DPO responded.

Happy, Chukwuma appreciated "Thank you very much Sir. So, how much is the bail?"

Salako shook his head at the man's ignorance, then replied "Mister, bail is free"

The Surprised Chukwuma retorted "No need to pay money for biro? No need to buy book for statement? Bail is free?"

But Salako, who wasn't finding the theatrical assault funny "Why all that? Why the drama? I said bail is free; completely free."

"That is wonderful. Thank you very much, Sir". Chukwuma offered.

Salako stood up from his chair, sat on-top his office table and asked "So you are the owner of that restaurant?"

Chukwuma answered "Yes, Sir. I am".

"Dont you think you need an entertainer there? I mean someone who can sing and play keyboard to entertain your customers."

Chuckwuma pondered silently on it and rejoined: "I like it. Its a great idea but what about money? All is about money".

Salako thoughtfully asked further: "You have public address system already, right?"

"Yes, I do, Sir" he answered

Salako suggested "If you can give him N2, 000 a night to rent keyboard. My boy will do it for you".

Chukwuma wiped his face with his right hand and probed "You think he is that good?"

"You can sack him after the first night if you don't like him".

"In that case, I will give him a trial. Let him come on Friday evening". Chukwuma concluded.

Later that day, after closing at work, Salako invited Obatola to his house and, having discussed the arrangement with him, he asked "What will you use as your stage name?"

"I have not thought of it. Is Obatola not okay?" he asked

Salako placed his right hand on his left leg and guided "Chose between King-T and T-Praise".

Obatola smiles with pride "I think I like T-Praise. Thank you, Sir. Am glad". Sergeant Salako smiled and they both hugged each other.

On Friday, as agreed, Salako took Obatola to Chukwuma at the Restaurant, who immediately arranged for the take-off of the one-man band entertainment. T-Praise started singing wowed his waiting audience. Chukwuma and everyone hearing him were thrilled by the melody. The harmonious combination of his inspirational rhythms and beats so much moved the hearts that people were spraying money on him. The next morning, Chukwuma ran to Salako and remarked "Oga, your boy is good o. I like him"

"I knew you would". Sergeant Salako boasted and he added "He said you asked him to keep all the money he was sprayed after when he gave it to you after his performance, thank you"

"I really like him. I will be given him N5, 000 every weekends.

Salako smiled and he laughed.

**************

# Chapter Five

Like the ever changing weather, nothing remains forever. Kings and kingdoms rise and fall in matter of time. The present generation at Abule Dodo woke to know the almighty Owoblow as the king of the ghetto hooligans. He was dared, he was feared; he was Lord until Apata swindled the sceptre. Apata's reign was noted for violence and bloodshed but that only increased the fear of Lord Apata in the community in spite of Shigo's nuisance. It was a complicated and dicey situation for Shigo. For more than eight years, he had openly ranted his plan to kill Apata and rule as the all powerful king of the ghetto. For years, he had fought to actualise this threats to no avail. Today, the strong hand of the law has taken Apata out of the way, yet, Shigo could not step in. The wind of change raging in the air was so strong and could sweep whoever stands in its way. So, the timid Shigo walked the slum he had always dreamed of but could not take the power he had always envied even in absence of his contenders.

It was a cool evening, Shigo and his boys were drinking and smoking in an uncompleted building. They now had to smoke in hidings since Salako and his NDLA dogs would not give them the freedom to smoke in the open. Balo was singing to make the gathering a little fun when Nifemi, a young girl passed through the street hawking oranges. Then one of Shigos boys, Sule called her to buy some oranges. She lingered over the idea of going into the den but decided to stay outside the building. "Coming inside na" Balo shouted but Nifefi Insisted "You come out here if you want to buy orange". Sule had to go meet her outside the building. While she peeled the oranges, the Balo came closer and was trying to flirt with her but she insulted him and walked away.

As soon as she left the scene, the boy sat closer to Shigo and said "Boss, that virgin orange seller, I swear, I will be the one to deflower her". Shigo, glimpsing the direction of her exit, asked "Are you sure she is a virgin?" "Yes, I am very sure. Boss". Balo replied

"As old as she is?" His boss probed further.

"I swear, boss" Balo seemed so sure "The girl is a complete V Boss" Callus reaffirmed.

Shigo held Balo by the neck and gave the command "It has been a long time I had a virgin for dinner. Get her for me".

Ben waited for Salako in the police station for almost an hour before the DPO showed up "It is obvious you have demolished JAMB" he said as he walked into the reception to persuade the waiting lad. Ben could not help the smiles "It is a dream sir. Am grateful for the part you played Sergeant"

Salako ignored the praises and asked "How was your exams, Ben?"

"I thank God, Sir. I have done my best". He replied.

Salako offered him a handshake and added "I trust you. The result will come out fine".

Ben quickly complained "They didn't allow me to finish it. The time allotted was too small".

"You prepared very hard for it and you have done your best. The next step is prayer. Not so? He encouraged.

Then came a wailing feminine voice, invading the station. It was Nifemi's. She ran into DPO open office with her cloth turn, crying bitterly of being. She reported that she was raped by Shigo and his boys. Duty call! Salako picked it up immediately he ordered a policeman to snap the girl with his camera phone. That done, he asked Ben to take her to the hospital with his bike. He then picked some policemen to follow him to effect the arrest of Shigo and his gang of nuisance.

It was another show in of the slum when Salako and his men captured Shigo and the gangs and dragged them out of their hideout without respect. The squard soon returned with Shigo and his boys handcuffed. They were hurled into the dark cell, where they passed the night on empty stomach.

It was afternoon the following day when DPO Salako returned to office from a meeting in town. A few minutes after taking some snap, he called on the OIC to bring the criminals to his office. They were all brought in, half-naked, with scratches over their bodies.

"Did you people flogged them?" Salako queried. There was silence for a while before Bokunjo broke it

"Sir, I gave the boys to flog them Sir. They were trying to escape". The officer explained.

"What!" Sergeant Salako exclaimed. "So you criminal wanted to escape. I bet it; you are all in trouble". He threatened them but it seemed to have infuriated Shigo who had refused to say a word since he apprehended. He started shouting on top of his voice

"What did I do? Did I kill anybody? Am I a thief? All this just because I raped an orange seller, ordinary orange seller? Do you know how many girls I have raped in Abule Dodo? Even when I killed, nobody was bold enough to arrest me or treat me like this."

"Will you shut up your lawless mouth or I shut it for you?" Salako rebuked. "You know what, everything you said is recorded. I will play it for the judge to hear when we get to court tomorrow. You may not know it; you are all on your way to Kirikiri". He added.

Shigo and his boys started crying and howling, bitterly.

"Except when duty calls, Sergeant Salako would always excuse himself from office on Sundays". So Ben assured Nifemi the Sergeant would be at home that Sunday afternoon. They met Obatola who they fondly referred to as T-Praise enjoying songs from the sergeant music-box. Ben took over the cooking they met Salako doing. Soon enough, the beans and plantain was ready and the four of them shared the meal lunch and stepped it down with the fruits Nifemi's mother had packed in nylon for her for the police officer- Her defender.

"Nobody in Abule Dodo would believe Ben is such a good cook" Nifemi made her remark to distract Ben and T-Praise from the jokes they were laughing about. "I started the cooking before he took it from me" Salako tried to share part of the applause. "But even you confirmed that I am a good cook the day I first cooked egusi soup here" Ben stated the fact to reclaim his applause. "Wow! Notorious Bold Ben cooks equsi, this is unbelievable". Nifemi exclaimed in admiration. "Yeah, he can be good at times when he is not high". T-Praise made fun of the discourse. "I will give you knock if you don't shut up" Ben challenged the little boy and everybody laughed. "He is right, everybody is a good boy, until one is high" Salako dropped the bombshell and he got everybody's attention immediately. He looked at them and continued "Nobody is born a hooligan. We were all born good boys and good girls. So anybody could be a good cook. Anybody could be a Doctor, lawyer, policeman or governor as long as your know what you want, focus on what you want and work hard on what you want and you avoid drugs and bad company". He delivered his sermon to his young guests in a much matured way.

There was silence for a while before Nifemi broke it again "We still have to appreciate you sir. You have given someone like Ben, Obatola and many other kids in this community a direction in life. Abule Dodo is safe, sane and better today because you are in it. We hope we could thank you enough". "Nifemi, you know you enthral me. You speak in a way that touches me. Anyway thanks". Salako could not hide his admiration for Nifemi's charismatic beauty and manners. "Welcome sir" She said blushing.

"Now let me ask you this question" Salako sounded more business minded now "what will you like to do with your life?" Nifemi looked pale, so Salako had to explain further "I hope you know you can't hawk fruits for your mother all your life. What can you do with your hand or do you want to go to school?"

Nifemi, after a minute pondering, answered "Sir, I am good at making hair. But I love to be a Tailor.

"What do you really want to do? You can't do two things at a time". Ben remarked.

Salako mildly countered "No, don't say that. She can do anything. We have people running more than five businesses. She can, if she believes she can".

Okay, Sir. Ben submitted.

"Nifemi, I will take you to where you will learn tailoring tomorrow. But for the main time, Ben will write something on the board outside so you to be making some money while making hair for people in front of the house" Salako resolved.

Elated, she smiled and knelt down in gratitude.

Early the following morning, Salako walked with Nifemi into a tailoring shop. He discussed with and presented her to the woman as for apprenticeship. She was asked to pay N5, 000 for the training and to that, Salako and Obatola jointly contributed N3, 000. Madam Show Fashion gave them a form to fill and Sergeant Salako signed as guarantor for Nifemi and she started the training immediately.

It was a dream come true. His name is on the merit list and that was all that matter. Ben had walked through Unilag compound in awe of the homey environment. He had long fantasised this day. Unilag was the University of his Dream and he was ready to give all it takes to secure his admission into the citadel but his all seemed not enough until Angel Salako showed up in his life. Ben saw very young boys and girls with books everywhere he turned on the campus. Some where even reading in the little gardens by the roads. Everybody looked serious, there were at peace, none of them smoked, none of them was like any of his teammates at home; these people's mentality was so different. "This is where I belong" he said to himself but only one thing would tell if he was right or not- the admission list. So, fearfully and anxiously, he approached the big noticed board in front of the office of the Dean of Student Affairs as described to him by a student he met at the car park.

The motorcycle had not fully covered its stopping distance when he jumped down from the bike and wanted to start running "You never pay me" The Okada man quickly called him back "Oh sorry, take your money" Ben gave him the money in a hurry and was about running again when the Okada man halts him the second time "My helmet abeg". Ben checked and found helmet still on his head, he was amused for a while. He loosed it and submit it to the motorcyclist ho was losing his patience already. "Where you dey run go sef" Ben didn't seem to hear that part. He dashed into the Abule Dodo Police Station and then, straight to the DPO's office. He was disappointed to see that Salako was not around. He came back to the reception to find out where Sergeant Salako had gone.

"You small boys, when person don give you small chance you will misuse it. Because DPO don allow you to be coming here, you think you can just enter here anyhow and go straight to his office"

"Am very sorry officer" He apologised. He felt like sharing his goodness with the officers but he decided to wait for the Sergeant. He deserves to hear first.

On his way home, Ben decided to go tell his friends he has secured a university admission. He found Clara standing in front of her father's house. Clara's father was a civil servant with a decent salary, so Clara was one of the kids ghetto teenagers referred to as butty. He walked to her, informing her that he passed his JAMB and got admission in the university. Clara and everyone in the house congratulated him. He then returning to the smoldering youngsters. He met some young boys and girls smoking, and informed them of his admission, thanking God for sending Sergeant Salako to the village. But many of them started abusing the Sergeant for turning the community upside down.

Mufu bubbled and said "Is it not Salako that arrested Shigo and Apata. He also arrested you before you guys became friends"

Dapo rattled and insinuated "Salako is a thief. He snatched Obatola from me and took him to restaurant to be making money for him".

Malik crowed and indicted "Before Salako came, we were enjoying. Boys are catching fun. We can smoke anywhere we want. But today, before you do anything police will arrest us."

But Ben politely countered all of them "Come to think of it: is this life? Killing, fighting, smoking, drinking, stealing, and raping? Is this life? Other people's children are going to school to become Doctors, Pilots, Accountants, and we are here wasting away our precious lives. Who does not want to be something good in life? If you like this life, I don't like it. I want to go to the university and become a lawyer to handle difficult cases and fight for human rights; I want to become the voice of the masses. I want to go to the House of Assembly to make good laws for the good of the common man. And, if fate helps me, I want to become a Governor of my state. Smoking and touting will never help me, Sergeant Salako is doing it already and I will remain grateful to him".

All of them looked at him with amazement.

Tinuke saw Salako walking by the road and ran after him for help "Sir, I need your help. I made eight papers in my O'Level exams but my parents couldn't help because they are poor. I want to go to university, Sir. I don't want to marry now. Help me, if you can. For my parents are considering giving me out to someone to marry but I hate the idea with passion. I want to further my education." She made her pleading half speaking, half crying. She felt she could open her heart to the sergeant to see how desperate she was.

Salako regarded her for a while. He knew she needed help and he wished he could help but he had too many kids on himself already. He nodded at her wisdom and determination. He held her by the right hand and pat her left shoulder to get her attention "I will try my best. You will have to join the tutorial class the corps members are organising. Let's start with that".

Salako and Ben visited Corp Toyin to appreciate his effort. Toyin was very impressed that his contribution has made a teenager from the dunghill to University. He could not have been more proud of himself. He also promised the Sergeant to remain committed to the children even after his program with NYSC. As the youth Corp was chatting with them in front of the house, they saw Clara, Malik, and many other village youngsters coming towards their direction, holding pens and writing books. They were still wondering when the kids came asking to be registered for the tutorial class. Sergeant. Salako and Ben watched with amazement.

On the day following, Toyin came to Salako and Ben to discuss the difficulty he was having with the increase in the number of the students. "I have met with my school principal but he refused to allow us the use of the school. He said Government doesn't give school premises out for private use. But other corp members are ready to work with us, Sir. Once we get a venue, the tutorial Centre will commence".

Sergeant Salako decided to see Chief Bola Benson for help. He took Ben along, and presented the matter to the Chief "Sir, we are starting a free tutorial Centre for the homeless children in this community. We want to give them education so that they can become somebody great in the future. For instance, this boy used to sell drugs for Apata but after few months with the corps members, he has been offered admission to study law in the university. We can do more with your help sir"

Chief was happy hearing him. He gave him a handshake and remarked "What a great idea! That is good, very good. And how do I come in?"

"We know that you have many hotels and halls in this community. I will appreciate if you can allow us to be using one of them. Just for two hours or thereabout a day". Salako requested.

Chief smiled and replied "Sergeant, you are the one that is dragging things back. Left to me, I can give you a whole building permanently. All you need to do is dance to my tune".

Salako, taken aback, said "Chief, Sir; I don't understand that sir"

Chief took a nap, threw up his head and expressed his mind "Your activity is killing my business. Slow it down. Leave my boys alone and become my associate. That's all".

"I am a Police officer, commissioned to protect lives and properties. If that offends you, I am sorry; there is nothing I can do about it. Goodbye". Salako submitted and departed. Ben was following hard behind him.

Ben and Salako walked down the street in the company of Councillor. They stopped in front of a piece of land filled with grasses.

"Here is the land. It is a government property on which we planned to build a clinic- a Primary Health Centre for the people". The Councillor said pointing to the land. He explains further "At the moment, the State Government hasn't make any move on it to build the health facility. So you can raise a temporary structure on it for now. I advise you not to build any solid structure on it". Ben and Salako were very happy for the facility the politician has offered them. They showed their gratitude as the Councillor drove off.

That same day, the youths followed Salako to the site and did all the clearing. Clara's mother gave them N5,000, T-Praise contributed N12,000, Nifemi dropped N4,000 while other boys danced round the community telling traders and whoever they met about their projects and begging for money. Two days later, they resumed at site to help carpenters erecting a temporary tent-like classroom with sinks and woods on the land. They also built wooden chairs, tables and blackboards for the classes. The structure had no doors and windows, so they had to buy chains and padlocks to tie down the chairs and tables.

It took them three days to finish the work. Wednesday to Friday. Thus, Salako announced that the tutorial begins Saturday morning. And it was a celebration as many pupils and students turned up for the academic drilling.

The news went round the community, and became the talk of every house. It wasn't any wonder when parents began to bring their children to the tutorial centre.

Salako's experience with one aged woman was unforgettable of such women. She brought her grandson, Okanlawon to Salako and pleaded "He is the only one I have. His father- my son died with his wife in a ghastly motor accident. So he is the eyes with which I see. He has no father, no mother, and no siblings. I don't want him to end up like those bad children of this community. Please help me. I have noticed your good works in the community. May the good God continue to help you. We are praying for you".

As soon as she ended her speech with prayer wishes, Salako received the boy with emotions and asked the old woman to go.

**************

# Chapter Six

Salako was busy with papers works in his office, trying to write his reports to be forwarded to the state Police Head Quarters when he was distracted by the familiar voices of his home boys and junior officers at the reception "Officer" The DPO shouted from his officer "Sir!" The officer at the reception shouted and wanted to start running to his boss' office when the simple command came "Let them in please" "Yes sir" he shouted again and he turns back to his position.

"Sergeant, Sir. T-praise has just gotten a new job". Ben spitted out the good news without greetings. Salako wanted to rebuke him but for the good news at hand, he could excuse that for now.

"Wow! That's great. How come?" Salako enquired.

"The man came to meet me at the restaurant and said he likes the way I sing. He wants me to be coming to his hotel in Sabo to entertain his customers every night".

"Just like that!" Sergeant Salako exclaimed.

"And N50, 000 would be his monthly pay. Can you imagine such big offer?" Ben bared.

Salako stopped what he was doing, stood up and walked closer to the boys "50K monthly? No, you will not do the job".

"But why?" Ben demanded.

Salako explicated "Look, I want him to go back to music school to upgrade himself".

"But you said I am good already. Didn't you?" Obatola asked his question in search for a reason good enough to make him throw such a big offer away.

"I know I said so. But you were good before I met you and was making much money in the market. Not so? And after you have learnt some things from the choirmaster, you also know how much you have been making. Can you tell the difference?" Salako tested.

"The difference is clear, Sir Obatola" affirmed.

Salako continued "Good. Now, come to think of it: if you go to school and have a degree in music; you can sing in front of anybody; you can be invited abroad to perform; you can be employed to teach music students. And that will mean more money to you. Not so?"

For moments, T-Praise was lost in the fantasy of the beautiful future his mentor had painted. He was very impressed "I love that. But what about the money?" T-Praise asked, worriedly.

Ben put in "May be he should continue working and making money until the school is ready. And whatever he was able to save will be used for the schooling. What about that?"

Approving, Salako Salako added "Since his jobs that the club is mostly in evenings. He can even be working part time and go for degree course morning lectures".

"Is that a Yes?" Ben suspended the celebration momentarily to be sure of the Sergeant's approval

"On one condition" Salako's voice was strong this time. The young boys waited anxiously to hear the condition "It must be in the employment agreement that T-praise will close before 9 or latest 10pm every night. No all night performances. He has to rest and prepare for his degree"

The duo shouted "Yes Sir!" as they jump into celebrations.

It was Friday school closing hour. The children sang NOW THE DAY IS OVER as they closed for home. As children walked on the main street, Oladele, Chief Benson's son, was having his girlfriend with him in the car as drove towards Okoron junction. He was drinking and twirling to a playing music when he carelessly knocked down a little boy; it was Okanlawon. Stepped down in anger to rebuke the little boy but when he realised that the boy sustain a major injury. He ran back into his car and he zoomed off.

Ben ran to the Police station to informed Sergeant Salako, who instantly ordered an officer to drive straight to the scene and take Okanlawon to hospital. He then led a team for the arrest of Oladele. As the policemen stormed Chief Benson's house, the man tried all he could to stop them but they eventually went away with the suspect.

At the hospital ward where Okanlawon was admitted, his leg hung on the bed and his grandmother was crying by the bedside. Other children were also there, crying profusely. Some minutes later, Sergeant Salako entered the room and the mother jumped at him:

"They said we should look for a deposit of N50, 000 before they can start treatment on him. Please, help me. My son must not die. He is the only one I have". The old woman pleaded.

Salako calmed the woman and faced Ben "Ben, take this N7, 000. That is all I have for now. Meet Obatola, Nifemi and any other persons you could meet to raise the money. We must make a good deposit without delay. I will also speak with the doctor to commence treatment on him."

Salako went back to the office to interrogate Oladele. He chose to tell him about the bill. "We need money to treat the boy. You must arrange for his hospital bill and every other thing can be sorted out. Have I made myself clear?"

But rather than expressing soberness, Oladele flared up and began to shout "I said I know nothing about it. Why are you trying to put a responsibility that is not mine on me? He was still screaming when Chief, his father entered with his lawyer".

Chief, wondering what the screaming was all about, "What is it again? You have been torturing my boy on what he knows nothing about" he probed.

"Chief, this denial must stop. After all, the mother of this boy is not ready to go to court. All she wanted is money to settle the hospital bill. It is less than N50, 000". DPO explained.

"If you need money to feed your poor children there is a way to go about it. Not by implicating children of rich people". Chief Benson insinuated.

Barrister gently moved and said "Sir, I am Barrister Badmus. Can I have an audience with my client?" Salako went out of the room, and the Lawyer went closer to Oladele. "This is the plan, you were in your room all through that night with your girlfriend. Your Mechanic came to pick the car for repairs and he knocked the boy down on his way back. We have not seen the mechanic since then. I have arranged witnesses for the court session".

Early on Monday, Police Prosecutor charged Oladele to court. And three days later, the court held his first session on the matter. During the session, Barrister Badmus put some questions to Oladele and he answered. The Judge then called on Sergeant Salako for questioning. Salako brought out a tape recorder and played the conversation between the lawyer and Oladele, how they planned everything. The court remanded Oladele and Barrister Badmus and the case was adjourned for two weeks for judgement. Within the two weeks Chief and his lawyers tried all they could to get Sergeant Salako's attention all to no avail.

On the judgement day, delivering his judgement, Justice Gbadebo held Barrister Badmus guilty of criminal conspiracy and unethical professional conduct. He was sentenced to three month imprisonment without an option of fine. He sentenced Oladele for five years imprisonment for culpable homicide, with an option of one year imprisonment and N10 million Naira.

For the justice done, Salako Okalawon and his grandmother and all the children rejoiced together.

Six days after the judgment, Okanlawon was discharged from the hospital but on wheel chairs. Everybody was there to rejoice with him. Sergeant Salako joined the gathering with a good news. He stood up amidst all when he made his speech.

"Congratulations to our brother Okonlawon who has been able to fight back. I pray that you will be back on your two feet as soon as possible. I have good news to you all: Chief Bola Benson has paid the fine of 10 million Naira awarded by the judge". All the children rose up and began to sing and dance. It took Sergeant Salako some minutes to call for their audience. When silence finally returned, he continued "I must informed you all that we spent the sum of just N120, 000 at the hospital. In agreement with Okalawon's mother, we have decided to give 5 million Naira to Okanlawon and his mother, while the sum of 4.5million naira will be paid to an insurance company for the education policy for Ben, Obatola, Tinuke, Clara, Malik and other 10 best children among you. All you need to do is study hard and whenever you need a school fee, approach the insurance policy for indemnification. The rest will be kept for the maintenance of our teachers and tutorial centre. You now have reason to rejoice".

They all went into clapping, singing and dancing. It was Ben who cut short the celebration when he raised his voice "Silence! Everybody, be silent please". When it got the attention of his people, he turned to Sergeant Salako and said "But, Sir, you have reserved nothing for yourself. Why?"

Salako smiled and responded "That is because mine will not be necessary. I have been transferred to Osun State. I should be leaving in no time".

They all became sad as blue mood pervaded the room.

It was a Sunday evening and Nifemi had been busy all day. Most government schools in the community, primary and secondary schools alike, usually call different hairstyles for their girls weekly. Only Marywood Grammar School made it mandatory for their girls to cut their hair. Thus, on Sundays, Nifemi and other local hair-dressers were usually busy with these young girls and other ladies who loved showing up at work with new hairstyles on Mondays. Salako was also busy writing reports and handover notes. He had nothing much pack; he never had too many cloths or property. But something stronger was on the Sergeant's mind. He had something to say but had no word to convey it. Maybe not the words, maybe the person the words are meant for. The bold officer had never found himself in a situation where he was clueless and fearful.

He decided to take a walk again. He had done that several times already. He would pretend as if he was going out, used the opportunity to check on Nifemi, exchanged some greetings and go out. He would come back within few minutes and repeat the same process. Luckily, this time, he met Nifemi by the entrance counting money. "Have you finished with Olamide?" he asked trying to pretend he was surprised. "Yes sir", she replied smiling "I have even made hair for Rose and one other girl after Olamide". She added boastfully. "Wow, you are very fast. That is why most of those girls love to patronise you" Salako's words made her smile again but she had an objection this time. "It is not only because I am fast. The children like me because I always make their hairs beautiful and my hands don't ache them" She said. Trying to change the topic, "Alright, I can see you have made a lot of money today" he commended, "Yes thank God. But I was coming inside to give you this money" she said extending the money to him. Salako was very surprised "Why are you giving me money?" he asked with concern "You are leaving tomorrow and I tried to think off what I can give you but decided to give you this token. I know it is small compared to what you have done for us but" "But have done nothing so spectacular, nothing that somebody has never done before" he said trying to sound simple but the young lady insisted "I am giving you this money and I will not be happy if you refuse it". Salako was lost for a moment "I will collect it on one condition" He finally decided to seize the occasion "What is the condition?" She asked curiously.

Salako looked at the pretty young lady in front of him waiting patiently to hear what he had to say. The lady had adored and respected him thus far. Will he be able to retain the respect t after he must have said his mind? Will she slap him? He looked round and noticed T-Praise and few other children were inside. He needed to make whatever drama that is imminent unknown to those young chaps. "Let me walk you home" He eventually said something after he had done nothing but gazing at the charming face of the woman of his dreams. Nifemi laughed stylishly and said "Is that the condition" "No, not really. I will tell you the condition on our way" Salako tried to frame boldness with a little smile.

On the way, Salako broke the news. He confessed his love for her and asked for her hand in marriage right there. Nifemi wasn't really surprised. She noticed the special interest the police officer had in her and of course she had long admired him. But today, the delivery and the realisation that she would be the wife of the Almighty Salako almost swept her off her feet. She was happy, she was afraid, yet she felt so fortunate and yet she felt she needed to think about it. She left Salako without a word. She ran into mother's wooden hut half crying, half smiling. Salako left the spot confused.

The duo did not have a good sleep that night. Their dreams were a mixture of thoughts, considerations, fears, doubts and wishes. For Nifemi, her thought was about turning the stigma off a "Rape Victim" to "Queen of the Boss". Will Shigo's boy say Salako sent Shigo to prison because he wanted to marry Nifemi? Will people say that the man who too Inspector Ayayi's possible, who silenced Chief Benson and jailed the warlords of Abule Dodo, would people say the man married her out of pity? She also considered how popular Sergeant Salako had become in less than two years in the community. Parents now cautioned their erring children with threats to report them to the disciplinary Sergeant. Instead of outlaws like Owoblow and Apata, kids now had a mentor in a policeman. They talk to mimic deep bass Salako's voice, each time he addressed the community and how he chased down his suspects. His name was the praise in the people's mouths. And when the news of his transfer was broken, the atmosphere was charged with rejections, emotions and wishes. Nifemi could imagine how many of the occupants would celebrate her if they found out that she is Salako's wife to be.

Salako on the other hand, tried to give reasons for Nifemi's assumed rejection. She was not the first to turn down his proposals. He knew most ladies are usually sceptical with the life of security officers. The fears, uncertainties and dangers the life and family of a law enforcement agent could be faced with. He wasn't ready to sweet-talk any woman into such situation. Whoever would marry him should do that for love and for commitment.

Very early in the morning, about 5am, Salako packed his bags and stepped out to be met with emotional scene of his children, singing, wishing and telling him how much they would miss him. The moment escalated to the extent that Salako could not leave that day. In the evening, Nifemi gave a "YES" and immediately Ben started calling him "Our Mother" and every other person took it from him.

Salako was introduced to Nifemi's mother and the old woman gladly accepted of having an upright man like him as a son-in-law. Salako then left to resume duty in Osun State. Two months after, Salako and his people stormed Abule Dodo slum to pick his bride with a big wedding ceremony.

*******************

# CHAPTER 7

"I am very sorry sir. The instruction we are given is that he needs to rest. Nobody can see him for now" The nurse tried to make her point as polite as possible but Malik would not listen to her. "Don't you understand? I was on my way to the airport when I heard that my father has been brought here. I just want to see him and be sure he is okay before I leave. I have an important business meeting in China". Malik explained but the lady insisted "Am sorry I can't help you". Tinuke showed up and spent some time exchanging pleasantries with Malik. "How far, where is Sergeant?" she asked eventually. Her question seemed to have reminded Malik his anger. "They won't allow me to see him. This people have left me here at the reception for the pass fifteen minutes" He didn't hide his anger.

Tinuke walked fast to catch up with the nurse that was walking away "Excuse me ma" The nurse paused her pace and Tinuke introduced herself "Am Doctor Tinuke, I work the Federal Medical Centre, Ibeju Lekki and I run my private hospital, Tiny Seeds Hospital, VI". "Impressive, but what can I do for you Doctor?" She asked Tinuke after the long introduction "I want to see my father, Sergeant Salako" Tinuke replied hoping to get a preference treatment but the nurse insisted "Almost everybody here call the old man his father but am so sorry Doctor. The instruction I was given is that nobody should disturb the old man". "I understand, but as a doctor, I know what to do" Tinuke persuaded further. "May be you should see the Doctor, am sure he would..."

She was distracted my security men coming out f the wards, followed by a man in his late 40s. Malik and Tinuke were still wondering who the man could be, the man himself shouted Tinuke's name. Tinuke suddenly realised the man's identity. She shouted "Olatunbosun!" "Wow, Am glad to see you again!" He exclaimed "Malik, don't you know Tunbosun from Abule Dodo" Tinuke tried to remind Malik who seemed to have had more cordial relationship with the man in the past. Malik and Tunbosun hugged for seconds. "You are now a big boy now o. You now walk around with guards. What are you doing here?" Malik asked his question after a round of commendations. "I came to Sergeant Salako, you remember Him?" Malik and Tinuke found the question amusing "As if any of us could ever forget Sergeant" Tinuke made her remark trying to show that the question was ridiculous. "We are here for him as well" Malik replied him. "That's good; please I need to go now. You will be given my card, please give the person your complementary cards, I missed you all" He left immediately. A young lady in suit came over to Malik and Tunuke and handed them Tunbosun's cards. "So his bastard is a governor!" Malik exclaimed fixing his gaze on Tunbosun's complementary card. "Sergeant has so many achievers as disciples" Tinuke's remark was in amazement. "His Excellency said you will give me your call cards" The young lady interrupted. "Alright give this to your Excellency. That guy that changed his name to Excellency is Tunbosun and he is my boy" Malik added with pride. The lady smiled and faced Tinuke expecting her to give her card "My card is in my bag in the car" Tinuke explained but Malik quickly intervened "Write your name and phone number somewhere on my card". Tinuke was grateful to the solution Malik has provided. She collected the card from the lady and got a pen from Malik. She was writing when the crowd outside started shouting. Tinuke returned the card to the lady and wondered what was happening outside when the security at the hospital and two bodyguards pushed through the crowd to ensure safe passage for the celebrity, T-Praise. Malik and Tinuke greeted him and he was offered a seat. "Obatola, T-Praise, it is good to be a celebrity. Everybody was celebrating you outside like Christmas" Tinuke commended "A big masquerade has nowhere to hide. A governor just left here nobody celebrated him" Malik added. "That is because he came with his security details and not many people saw his face" Tinuke explained. "So, Ben has come here" T-Praise asked with surprise "Not Ben. It is Olatunbosun, the beans-seller's son. He is now a governor" Malik relied him "I have met him. He got my contact from Sergeant. He said he wanted to make me an ambassador of his state but am not ready for politics" T-Praise told them but Malik didn't find it funny. "That stupid boy that I used to buy bread so that we could both eat his mother's beans, he sought for a celebrity's phone number and forget me, abi" Malik was jealous. "He saw me on TV and sought for my phone number. Who know you? Have you ever been on TV?" T-Praise boasted "Tinuke, can you here him" Malik asked "Not everybody needs what you are selling. Tell him they know you in China, Korea, Germany, and wherever you are importing your things from" Tinuke mocked Malik further. T—Praise and Tinuke laughed. "Where is Sergeant abeg".

Tinuke wanted to reply when some security agents started to clear the road for a dignity coming in. "Who could this be again?" Tinuke paused what he wanted to say to ask the question. "That must be that the little boy that calls himself Sergeant's first son". Just then Governor Ben emerges and Tinuke exclaimed as she buried herself in Ben's embrace. She stepped back for Ben to shake hands with his childhood friend, Malik. They were on that when the nurse and one of the governor's aides came to them "Your Excellency Sir, the ward is free. You can go in now" The nurse spoke to the governor with respect "Clear Sir" His aide added. "Alright let's go" the governor declared as he led the road. "So your Doctor suddenly changed his mind abi. God pass you" Malik mocked the health worker as they passed by her into the hallway.

Nifemi sat by Salako's bed in the hospital. In droves, Governor Ben, Malik, T-Praise and Tinuke came in. Malik was the first to break the silence "Na wah o. So if someone is not a politician now, we can't see our father again?

Nifemi, wondering what he meant, asked "What happened?"

"You wouldn't believe it. I have been waiting outside for hours. They said we cannot come in but when the politician arrived the room became clear." Tinuke answered

T-praise rejoined: "You are talking about yourself. You are a Doctor and this old man is just a trader. I am a celebrity. They should respect me more than these politicians"

"Oppressions, Oppressions, Ben come and sell forms for me. I want to become a politician"

They all laughed. "That is not a problem. But the truth is everybody should be accorded their respect, no matter who you are" Ben replied them

Tinuke agreed "Yes, I am a medical practitioner. They should have at least given me that respect."

Malik joined "Respect ke? In this country of ours? They did not respect any of us until the politician, Governor Benjamin arrived."

"I think he is right, they allowed Governor Olatunbosun to come in as well. Whereas, my children are still outside" Nifemi added. "That reminds me" Tinuke interrupted "How did Sergeant meet Olatunbosun. He did not attend the classes with us. He left for London even before Sergeant Salako arrived Abule Dodo" Tinuke concluded her question. "No, you didn't get it right. He left for London two weeks after Sergeant's arrival" Nifemi corrected her and continued "Can you remember he was arrested for stealing a phone?" "Yes we know about that, he was looking for money to settle his school fees abroad and travelling expenses. I was part of that plan but I escaped the arrest" Malik expatiated "God bless you for that". "Sergeant got a loan from office to help Tubosun with the school fees". Everybody looked at one another for a while without a word. Nifemi continued "We were married and the Police Force was deducting Five thousand Naira from his salary monthly and my husband didn't tell me about it. It was when Tubosun came back to the country and gave us five million Naira and a brand new jeep. It was from their discussion, I realised that Tunbosun explained to my husband he stole because he needed money for his education abroad"

"He got alone from office, not to build house, not to buy a car; he gave hundreds of thousands of Naira to a criminal in his custody" The tone of Ben's statement showed how surprised he was. Malik took it from him "Men, this man is a bloody giver!" Malik Shouted. Salako turned his side and grumbled: "Oh God, who are those children for God's sake. You won't allow someone to rest."

"Thank God you are alive." Governor Ben retorted.

But Salako juxtaposed: "What if am dead, I am 78 this year. Am I not old enough to go?"

Malik touched Salako and rebuked "Sir, stop that. You are not old at all; you are going to the next Olympic."

Ben added to the joke "I am even thinking of getting him a pretty new wife."

"Hun, I pity you. Nifemi will bit you hard." Sergeant Salako warned.

"I don't mind as long as the new wife will take good care of you for me" Everybody laughed.

A military Colonel came in with a Boxer. He prodded: "Hello people. I am here to see my father." He noticed Ben and saluted: "Your Excellency, Sir."

Tinuke, fixing her gaze on the soldier, exclaimed "Wow! Sergeant, so you have a child that is as old as this?"

"Don't mind that boy. I met him as an Agbero in Osun and later enrolled him in the army. He is now a major." Salako threw a jest

The soldier immediately corrected: "Am now a Colonel, Sir. I came to tell you about my promotion, but when I got home, I was told you are here."

"Colonel? Hun, nonsense. Is that why we won't hear word? Now go down on your kneels" Salako ordered.

Colonel obediently went on his knees and pleaded: "I am sorry, Sir."

Salako chastised: "Tell me, when exactly you will quit this street habit of yours? The same with this one; I met him as a militant in Bayelsa. I noticed he is a good boxer and took him to a trainer. He is a professional Boxer now. He won a bronze medal at the Olympic. But it seems he is becoming a responsible man now".

Boxer smiled and suggested "Sergeant, I am thinking we should fly you abroad for treatment, Sir."

Salako wasn't comfortable with the idea "I have no travelling strength left in me. More so, most of your brothers here will not allow me to step out of Nigeria. Malik, was it not last two months we came back from Spain?" Malik nodded in affirmative.

"I have a doctor in Los Angelis. He is world class." Boxer furthered.

Ben supported "There is also a hospital in Italy that specialized in taking care of aged people like you, Sir."

Salako looked on the governor and said "Tinuke your sister is here. She runs her own hospital. Why don't you help her with the same equipment they are using over there?"

Malik said, approvingly "Consider it done, Sir." He turned to Tinuke and demanded "Give me the list of all that you want." "Alright dear" Tinuke replied smiling but Ben seemed to have a better idea

"Submit your proposal to my office. My government can partner with you. We are considering improving health facilities in the country." Ben interjected.

Malik retorted "Sergeant, Sir I think you have to tell your politician son to stop oppressing us with government money."

But Ben quickly countered "Mind you, I am made before I become the governor."

T-Praise added his voice "To settle everything, I must inform you that an international health organization that I represent as their brand ambassador in Nigeria is partnering with Hospitals in developing countries for health facilities across Africa. All I need to do is submit your name and the details of your hospital. They will take it over."

Tinuke responded "Whoa! That sounds nice. So nice."

"God, why am I not a celebrity? God, please, make us all stars o." Malik humoured. "That does not mean you will not contribute you quota. It can never be too much. Tinuke is that not true?"

Salako asked and Tinuke responded almost immediately "Yes o. It's true; Keep bringing it; the more the better".

"Sergeant, this man has been on his kneels since, please release him" Salako looked at the soldier "Now, you can stand up, greet your brothers, they are my children from other places".

They greeted one another and exchanged contacts.

Governor Ben said "I learned there so many people outside waiting to see you. Should I go and speak in their favour?"

But Sergeant Salako insisted "Please, I don't want to see anybody. Doctor said I need some good rest. Let me rest, please."

The week after; Salako was allowed to go back home. Four doctors were employed for the sergeant's regular checkups and home service. Tinuke's hospital was upgraded to a world class medical centre. It was furnished with best of equipment and best hands were shopped for across the world to handle various medical cases, treatments and surgical operations at the Tiny Seeds Private Hospital with the aim of providing quality health services and affordable costs. Governor Ben and Malik joined hands to build Sergeant Salako Memorial Primary and Secondary School in Abule Dodo to provide free education for the members of the community. T-Praise founded Salako Special Kids, an NGO that caters for children living with disability. The NGO provided home, clothing, food and education to suit the peculiarity of these set of children. With the support of some corporate bodies and International organisations, T-Praise also set up a talent discovery and promotion company to help talented youths maximize their potentials.

On his eightieth Birthday, Retired Sergeant John Salako was offered the honour to officially open Salako Memorial Primary and Secondary Schools and Salako Special Kids Organisation for official use in the company of dignities, journalists and many other witnesses. The Birthday ceremony was also packaged with competitions in quiz, debates and sporting games. Winners were awarded with scholarships and money prizes. The ground finally was a dinner party that the two plot compound built for Salako about 35 years ago. Eating and drinking; singing, drumming and dancing was all over the compound. Dignities from all facets of life across the country and beyond were well represented.

Celebrations and congratulations went for a while and it was time for the celebrant to talk. Sergeant Salako was called to the platform and he majestically obeyed. He collected the microphone and had to wait for a long time before he could speak. Everywhere was filled with claps and shouts. He gave a signal and the noise calmed. He then hit the microphone by the head to be sure it was on. For seconds, he could not find his voice:

"My real name is John Olumide and my father's name is Salako. Salako was a loving husband to his wife, a disciplinary to his children, a Sunday school teacher in church and a farmer by profession. On many occasions, my father would hold a grain or seed in his hand and said 'whatever you do is a seed. Whether good or bad, we shall all reap our deeds in multiple folds'. He died and I expected his good deeds to be rewarded but no, it wasn't. Rather, his kid brother who was living with us sent us out of our compound and took over my father's house and farmland. In penury, my mother remained a giver. She had nothing, we could hardly feed, education was difficult and yet my mother would still help widows and other poorer family around. I didn't understand why. But she kept telling me that 'when you feed the poor, they see you as their parent; when you help the helpless you become their god'. She also died in penury.

Father thought me that honesty is the best policy. Mother showed me the way of charity, but none of these people lived to enjoy the reward. So, if you asked me, I had no reasons to believe any of their sermons. Here is the consolation, there is an assurance that they are in a better place now. If I have ever helped you, I did it because I wanted to redirect your path. I didn't know Olatunbosun or Ben will become governors. I knew Obatola was exceptionally talented but it never occurred to me he would turn up like this. Tinuke was smart but who could say a world class doctor can come out of notorious ghetto like Oke Dodo? Whatever I have done, I did it either because I saw a great potential in you or I found out that you were a not criminal by choice but by circumstance. Ben for example came to Lagos in search for a better life, he found himself in jail. He met a criminal in the jail and he was introduced into crime. What do you think will happen if I arrested him and send him back to jail? I can continue to mention names, the list is countless.

By career records, you can call me a failure. I served Nigerian Police Force for 35 years of active service. I was transferred to and I served in 27 different communities across the country in this 35 years. I recorded success in peace making, crime detection and arrests. I have lost count of hardened criminals I personally brought to book and community riots that I settled, risking my life and safety of my family, never compromising. In all of these, I was never promoted beyond the rank of sergeant. On several occasions, my promotion was blocked by senior officers who are not happy with me. They kept transferring me from one place to another, and I kept meeting you and you and all of you.

Today, I make bold to say am richer than the Inspector General of police of the federal republic because I have you. The farm I once wept over is sold and gone. The house taken forcefully from my mother is now dilapidated. The house Colonel built for me in the same village is only second to the palace in size but when you consider the value, the difference is clear. What does that tell you? Nothing last forever; but the impression you make in people's life will remain even after you are dead. I think that is why my mother would say a 'good name is better than silver and gold'.

I close with these words, your deeds are seeds. So, watch what you sow today because they will come back to you in multitude. Sow in people and people will come back to feed you. It takes four conditions for the seed you sow to become a success; namely, good seeds, good soil and good weather and time. It is not everybody you helped that will come to reward you. Some are bad soil. They will collect your money and waste it. They may not even have the capacity to nurture your seeds. Sometimes, you have good seeds, good soil but unfavourable weather. That is situations beyond human controls. There is nothing you can do about that. That is why you should help without expecting anything in return. With that, you will not be disappointed. The fourth condition is time, you need to wait. Learn to give people time. Do not judge people by the condition you meet them today, time has a way of turning things around. Honesty is the best policy. So, do not sell your integrity to buy vanity. Do not stain your name for fames. Even the famous respect the righteous.

I leave you with these words 'Do good whenever you can, wherever you can, to whoever you can, as long as you can'. Remember 'when you feed the poor, they see you as their parent; when you help the helpless you become their god'. Thank you".

Nobody in attendant would ever forget any of those words. They went from that point to become givers, philanthropists and human resource investors. The words were like parting words from their god because Salako dies two days after his eightieth birthday. He left but his legacies remained in his children who are spreading his words across the country and beyond.

**************

# About The Author

Aristarchus Oluleke Ajagbe is the C.E.O. of Mastery Pictures Networks Ltd. An Accounting Graduate of the University of Lagos. Ajagbe has a rich experience in finance and banking for his six-year working experience before he resigned to his passion of film production and book writing. His company has since 2011 successfully produced many movies and TV series.

He is happily married to Seunfumi and they are blessed with Emerald, their beautiful daughter.

# Other Books By The Same Author

*Other Side of Love

# Author's Connects

In case you enjoyed this book, kindly leave a note @ Smashwords. You can also contact Ajagbe Aristarchus Oluleke @Mastery Pictures Networks Ltd, Alagbado, Lagos, Nigeria

Phone: +2348023789752

E-mail: aoajagbe@gmail.com ;masterypicture@gmail.com

Web: http://masterytv.net

Follow me on Twitter: http://twitter.com/HerJarGBE

Friend me on Facebook: <http://facebook.com/AjagbeAristarchusOluleke>

Follow me on Instagram **:** <http://instagram.com/masteryleke>

Message me on: https:/www.smashwords.com/profile/view/ **AjagbeAristarchusOluleke**

