 
SEX IN EDEN

NEW YORK EDITION

BY EDEN EVANS
Dedicated to the world's greatest city New York

#  INTRODUCTION

### This was before, an idea for my YouTube channel but proved prolific in creating the book SEX IN EDEN-NEW YORK EDITION.

### Three months ago, I was about to publish one of my fiction novels on Amazon, which I was highly confident would be praised for its content and writing style. But when a close friend of mine, who had been self-publishing for long time, learnt about this he warned me against doing any such 'Rash' thing. His advice was to put off better projects for good times and initially start with something with which I can garner trust of my readers.

### When I researched online, I found him to be absolutely right. For my first novel I didn't even had enough money to buy a good cover and the worst of all, I had no base of my readers.  
That was when I decided to create SEX IN EDEN and for it, I moved to New York where my aunt lives.  
It took me nearly a week to glean content for this book. My thinking was that everybody loves sex and people around the world would love to know about the sexual lives of bunch of real people.

### My only expectation from SEX IN EDEN-NEW YORK EDITION is that a reader should not feel his time wasted while going through this book. I want people to notice my writing calibre.  
About pecuniary benefits, I would be a happy man if this book made me only $200 with which I can pay for the cover of my upcoming novel.

### While conducting interviews for this book I came across few people who were ready to pummel me, few who called me names, few others who thought I was a crass. But I want to thank those who not only gave me their precious time but also trusted me, in revealing their stories without which this book could never have been possible. Every volunteer was also told beforehand that their stories would be published for my own monetary gains in the form of this book and they happily agreed.

### Thank you Follow on Twitter-@EdenEvans77

### Eden Evans

# About the book

### This book is the congeries of the sexual fantasies and anecdotes of sexual encounters, told by twenty-eight people whom I met in New York. The book is written in first person. As aforementioned the volunteers were acquaint with the fact that I will publish this matter on amazon for my own monetary benefit in the future.

### Every story, in the pages ahead, will begin with an introduction of the person which carries their name, age, city and occupation.

### Though I met these people in New York but in their bio details I have mentioned those cities, where the person had spent maximum time of his life. I have also mentioned their age and occupation as told by them.

### About sexual fantasy, I made an extra effort to peek in the past of most people and also made it a point, as far as permissible, to ask the reason that gave rise to such fantasy in particular.

### Same holds true regarding the sexual encounters but only as far as it was essential.

### Some of the names have been changed on requests and for better writing style I have edited their stories not sticking to their exact words but the facts and telling's are all exact. Read ahead and enjoy

### Regards

# ALICE FRASER

# New York City

# 23

# Student (Fine Arts)

### I was raised by a single mother in the suburbs of New York and until today, I have never stepped out of this city. I have been into three relationships but none worked out for me and presently I am so engrossed in my studies that I do not possess time for any love escapades. My fantasy cycle began at fourteen and even to this day I prefer its ride.

### This fantasy has an anecdote attached to it. I was perhaps fifteen or sixteen when I was at a mall. Mum was taking considerable amount of time for she had encountered an old friend who was a loquacious woman.

### Feeling bored I thought it better to roam in there to kill time. Climbing up the escalators I veered unknowingly towards the staffs changing room which was a god forsaken place, as there was a huge heap of their uniforms lying on the table as well as all around the room. I entered it with the impulse of curiosity to witness how different was this place. Soon I heard someone was marching towards there through the corridor. To avoid myself from any questions I quickly hid behind the table over which the heap laid. I could see from the gap between the clothes that he was a six feet's tall, young probably in early twenties, white, handsome and a well-toned guy. After he had ajar the door, he took out his uniform from his back pack and quickly undressed himself. He was not wearing undies so I caught the clear view of his penis. This mister didn't change for the next five minutes but kept ogling in the mirror, his muscles- which he kept flexing repeatedly. I clearly saw his erect penis flaccid between his legs in beauty and I remember the nerves protruding in his penis. If it was any other girl of my age at that place she would have sprang out of this room in shame but not me, something was stopping me. After five minutes the guy changed and left. After another five minutes, I walked away too.

### So my fantasy takes place in that same changing room of that mall but I see myself as eighteen (because I don't want him to shun me).The same guy enters but in my fantasy he locks the door. He undresses himself and starts wanking his penis. I am so turned on when he pulls his foreskin and exposes his glans that I start fingering my pussy behind that table. It's after I moan that this guy becomes aware of my presence. He halts masturbation but now is hitting his hard penis over the rack. My moan intensifies here. He looks in the direction of the table and commands me to come out. He is surprised but happy to see me when I rise from behind the table. I do as asked by him and as soon as I reach him, I grab his penis. He moans looking towards the ceiling and then I kneel to blow him. The nerves in the penis are now exposed greatly. As I begin to blow him gently, he in great pleasure starts throat fucking me. I gasp struggling for air but my man doesn't pity me which I simply love.  
Finally he leaves throat fucking me and starts undressing me. He takes delight to see my 32D breast and starts caressing them. He swallows them so hard that a hickey is left on each of my boobs. After this I see him pull my thongs up and down in a fashion that it causes my clit to get a-fucking-feeling. I moan like a bitch here which delights him extremely. Then he throws me over the pile, takes off my thong with his teeth's and gives a hard fuck. I see us both moan loudly. His penis which is really thick makes me cum multiple times. My fantasy ends when he is fucking me in doggy style and suddenly turns me before ejecting his warm juices on my belly button which drips down flowing over my pussy lips on the floor. In the end I always lick the semen off the floor.

# AUDREY (name changed)

# New York City

# 29

# Housewife

### I have been married five years now and I am a proud mother of two twin sons. My husband is an accountant at Wal-Mart. About my sexual life, it was awesome when we newly married; the sex was a regular thing. It is only after my kids were born that he had lost his interest in spending long time in making foreplays and our intercourse lasts only for five to seven minutes now, leaving me greatly unsatisfied.  
Therefore, I had taken resort in various activities to keep me occupied like cooking classes, yoga, reading club, which had assuaged me greatly.  
But when I hit the bed beside my husband at night, the melancholy returns in me.  
Now about the prime character in this real incident, Velma, our neighbour whose father and mother lives in Chicago and are both superannuated from US Army.  
My children stayed with my mother-in-law in Manhattan because of our tight schedule. So whenever I had a leisure time, I spent it with Velma. She went to an acting school on weekdays and on weekends she always rejoiced in seeing me. Whenever she cooked something good she made it a point to bring in something for us. Now, it was many-a-times awkward-occurred-instance when I felt like Velma was trying to seduce me. All she did was remove her top, expose her boobs and see me feel embarrassed.

### At times she would ask me "Are my boobs good?"  
I always responded in the affirmative since they were really wonderful but then her queer ones started coming like; "would you not taste them" or "press them" or "grab them", "would you not show me yours"," do you want to see me completely naked", and many others. Through her dispositions I knew that whatever she said was what she actually wanted but I gave out the impression like I had taken it as a joke and even sometimes preferred leaving her alone. When the next time we ever met we both acted as if nothing had happened or remembered.

### This event took place two years ago when Velma had to spend the night with Kylie, her cousin, who was fourteen and her parents were gone to attend a party. Velma asked me to accompany her saying that she would else be bored as Kylie was too childish. It was weekend; my children were at their grandma's home and I had no business at home to commit so I assented.  
We had dinner at Kylie's home cooked by Velma and after dinner we were both killing the couch watching television.  
Since I was greatly unsatisfied sexually, my eyes kept returning to Velma's breast and I was very horny.  
Soon Kylie left us after her boyfriend had called as Velma had prior told me and had advised me not to disturb her as she would keep talking till the dawn. Now sitting on couch were me and Velma. She was still engrossed in the serial when I said 'I want to see your breast Velma'  
She couldn't believe her ears so she asked me if I was high on something and I told her that I was very horny.  
She still though I was feigning everything so she asked me to show my breast first. I took out my top and showed her my big breasts which had charmed her as she switched off the TV after this. In those days I was also breastfeeding so my boobs were filled and swollen. She cupped my left boob and said that my nipples were hard. I removed my undies myself because all I wanted was sex as fast as possible.  
On that couch only she pulled me back, started licking my neck which was very sexually pleasing. Soon she had licked my whole body leaving the most erogenous areas for the end. Then she started kissing me, which began like a normal kiss but ended to be French when she put her tongue in my mouth and started sucking mine.  
She moved to my breast now and sucked them. To her surprise they were filled with milk, so she after filling her mouth spit that milk in my mouth (gross! even I find it now but at that point I was too horny). I drank on the first time but before she repeated that act for the second time, she asked me not to drink but spit back in her mouth, which I did. We kept doing this until I was dry and since the milk has wet the top of Velma I could see that she was wearing a blue bra inside.  
She then moved down on me, licked my pussy putting her tongue as far as she could manage.

### I loved every moment on that couch but then she did something peculiar which was to become the best event of the night. Firstly she put her middle finger inside me and anally fucked me. After sometime she put two fingers, then three and at last she had her whole hand in my pussy it was painful, without a question, but it was also very great feeling like many dildos were thrust inside me. I shouted at the top of my voice, so loud that Velma pressed my mouth with her palm alarmed and asked me to lower my sound else Kylie would come down from her room.  
I can't tell how difficult it was to reduce my tone; the fuck with her hand was amazing for me.  
Then she asked me to discover her body so I quickly removed her top and hot pant and began pressing her boobs and spanked her ass (which I once saw in porn and learnt).  
Velma kept pressing her boobs as I licked her thighs. Then I removed her bra and her panty, her pussy was pierced. I tried putting my fingers inside her cunt but my best was only three yet she was in ecstasy and kept saying fuck, fuck...

### I licked her pussy and really loved it more than sucking a cock. Velma kept returning to my boobs now and then and whenever a little milk she squeezed she spit that in my mouth which I had to spit back in hers. We fucked each other for an hour that day before we both had our orgasm. After that day it never happened again with her and after sometime Velma got hired by some agency so she now resides in California but we are in touch through Facebook. I have many lesbian relationships since then but I would always cherish that night when I had my first.

### ["Are you horny Eden after hearing my story" Audrey asked me at the end, I could only smile as she laughed at my uneasiness]

# Bella Davis

# Ohio

# 35

# Teacher

### I am a middle school teacher at an esteemed Ohio school. I love my job; the teacher moulds the path of their students and helps them move towards the glory.  
It's been ten years now that I have been employed and when I ride back on the bus there are many people whom I have now been acquaint with, after so many years of travelling together.

### The journey from school back to my home takes a little more than an hour generally.

### This event took place in the fall of 2013. It was raining in the afternoon as a consequence of which I decidedly left my bus and chose the one that came half an hour later.  
There were not many passengers, so I occupied a seat towards the end and kept enjoying the gust of cold winds, admiring out of the window. Meanwhile the remaining few kept reducing on their stops and there were hardly new commuters on board this bus.

### I was still busy with the wind outside, when I felt a little touch of elbow at my breast. I looked and saw seated beside me, a man of twenties, dressed in white t-shirt, jeans and bandanna over his head, engrossed in listening songs on his I-pod.  
I dismissed it thinking it to be an accident and anew resumed looking out from the window.  
And soon I felt again a touch of gentle finger running on the outline of my boob. It was long enough to clear to me that it was done deliberately. I looked towards him, who was still engrossed in his I-pod; he settled hastily his hand on his legs as I turned. I tried to ignore this but again his hand came near my boobs and he began to run his finger on my tits. It was surreal for me to experience all this in a public transport, so I pushed his hand away. He turned this time to see me and saw my profound expressions which perhaps warned him to halt his actions. It was ten minutes that he didn't touched me but I was already aroused, so I placed my hand slowly in his lap and began to press his prick. He was enjoying it clearly as he raised his hands and interlocked them behind his head.  
I pulled his hand under my skirt as a sign to tell him what I wanted. He kept rubbing his nail against my labia and I took out his fly.  
It wasn't a long one but the girth was incredible. The bus was now filled with four more people beside me and the one next to me. I bent down to suck him; it was amazing to suck his cucumber girth prick. He kept his finger running in my pussy and whenever I felt that I was nearing an orgasm, I took his finger and sucked it before again placing his hand under my skirt.

### His cock was circumcised; I kept kneading it in between. I raised my head in between to check the condition prevalent in the bus, which was all the same throughout, in my favour.  
He demanded from me to show him my boobs which I did opening my shirt buttons. I was still sucking him when he come a mouthful inside my mouth which I spit at his feet. I still remember that he asked for my underwear as a keepsake to remember me which I happily offered him. He left the bus three stops before mine and though I took that bus many-a-times later he was never seen again.

# Brenda Hudson

# 26

# Washington DC

# Sales head

### I grew up in the countryside of Texas, the place is called Wimberley. My fantasy initiates in the days when I was an intern in a start-up company at Dallas.

### On my very first day, I was thrilled to come across my old boyfriend there.  
I thought that my presence at the work place would perforce him to rekindle our old relation but I was tormented to learn that he was engaged and he expressed in euphemism that he would never have sex with me.

### Hence, this fantasy was born which served as an analgesic to my melancholy of not winning him back.

### In this fantasy a situation has arrived where I and my ex are assigned some work which would require us to stay late after work.  
Later there is only me, my ex and copious load of file over our desk. We diligently start our work together which takes around three hours to sum up and leaves us jaded.  
It is actually him who had taken immense pain to complete the work in time and had done some of my share of work too.  
So I earnestly asks him, who sits on his chair with eyes shut, if I could do anything for him on which he politely asks for a massage.  
Doing massage is my forte, so I begin from his shoulders and could perceive from his smile that the effect is soothing and relaxing.  
His handsome looks by now have begun to guile my heart which is pressed under the whim of fucking him.  
So I shift the massage down, moving to his hands, back and derrieres. It's when I move to his thighs that I see his sudden uneasiness which makes me to laugh. I could also feel throbbing in his trousers which, in an instant, push out my cunt juice in excitement.  
He is in dilemma whether to stop it there or to let things consummate to sex. The blood rushing in his temples rescinds his thought process and he chooses the latter as felicitous for this night.  
Now that I have all his undivided attention; I am trying to get him as hard as a whinstone.  
The upper two buttons of my shirt are open as a consequence of which he can see my boobs bouncing as I massage him. I know he is ogling at my breasts and ruminating that how long it had been since my boobs had not borne his hickeys.  
Now when I move from his knee to his thighs I make sure that the distance between my boobs and his face is negligible.  
His eyes are still riveted on my boobs though he sits with pacific emotion but his prick has stiffened like a maypole in his trouser. Finally his fists are clenched for he is on the verge of fainting with his palpitating heart and wild rushing blood in his veins. He unhooks his belt in an instant and I can already see a colossal bulge in his pants which excites me insomuch that I begin to suck it behind his trousers only.  
He stops me to kiss passionately over my lips and starts to rub his lips on my neck. I love this soft tickling but arousing gesture which makes my fingers rush in my cunt. Then he takes off his trouser to hand me his incredible, marvellous, wonderful and splendid phallus which feels like a cucumber in my grip.  
He asks me to massage it for him but as I start to knead his prick, he startles me with a smirk when he says 'do it as it is supposed to happen '. I glance with quizzical gaze unable to figure out nothing when he suddenly pulls me closer to him, my boobs pressing against his chest. He takes off my white shirt and unhooks the black bra (which was his gift to me while we were together).Soon I understood what he implied when he starts fucking my boobs between which I can feel his penis like a hot truncheon.  
Then he sucks my tits with so much passion that it clearly reflects his fondness for them. I feel twitching in my pussy when he presses my boobs hard. I start sucking his penis and glide his whole scrotum in my mouth providing him immense pleasure.  
Then he takes out my skirt, kisses my pussy lips and begins to glide his tongue in them. He puts his middle finger inside me, and then he sucks it himself before putting it in my mouth.  
My gaping pussy only waits for a nice satisfying fuck which he provides me at last.  
He thrusts his marvel cock inside me taking me on cloud nine at once and also at the same time his finger is inside my anal.  
He makes me cum multiple times but still he is not ready to slow down and the way he shifts his gear while fucking is the high point of our sex. We fuck everywhere in the room from bed, sofa, dining table to the floor. He elevates me in his hand, with my each hip resting on his palms, and then he fucks me again.  
I am incessantly heaving while he is fucking me.

### In the end he turns me upside down, still elevated in his hands, to enable us perform sixty-nine on each other.  
He licks all my juice and perhaps his too from my pussy as I still suck his prick. Then he cum in my mouth grunting and this fantasy end's when he tells me that I fuck him better than his fiancé.

# BRIANA (name changed)

# 36

# CHICAGO

# SELF EMPLOYED

### I grew up in the south side of California along with four siblings, two elder brothers and two younger sisters. My father was a martinet yet very caring but it was my mother who I was extremely fond of and close to. At the end of the day I would religiously narrate to her patient ears, my whole day. She was my best friend whom I could turn to for every little advice. I am invidious now with my mother for possessing something in her character that I am perhaps bereft of. It was her incongruous trait of conversing with so simplicity that everybody would lovingly hear her with undivided attention and never got offended even when she touched the topics of grave nature.

### In our adolescent she talked about everything from body changes to sex to impart us the proper sexual knowledge and the confounding fact was that none of us siblings felt it vulgar.

### Time is a meandering bitch which always present things beyond your expectations.

### Today I am a mother of a wonderful daughter who is great in academics, athletics and singing. But it's poignant for me that she doesn't talk about her life with me and neither am I invited to enquire about it, even sporadically. It once happened that I started telling her about body changes and I had barely spoken for a minute that she started wailing before rushing to her room, locked herself inside and cried for hours. That day I took a vow that I would never again trouble her with this kind of stupid behaviour of mine. Also I told myself that teenagers have their own ways of getting acquaint with things.  
But it pines me now whenever Mike visits my daughter. Mike is my daughter's best friend or perhaps paramour which I could surmise from her smile whenever he is around. Since my daughter is in the age where everything appears to be a joyride, I worry for her sometime that she might take some rash step without proper knowledge, which only a parent can provide, only to penance later (you know what I mean).

### Thinking all about these things gives me a headache and to release it I have woven a fantasy which obviously revolves around my daughter's boyfriend Mike.

### I picture myself collecting clothes in the house to be taken to laundry when Mike arrives. My daughter isn't home so I tell him to go and wait in her room till she arrives. I am very circumspect of every minute thing around me so I notice that Mike has come bathed in cologne and cladded in his best clothes.  
He is sitting with the door wide open and I see a packet of condom placed on the table. I evidently deduce, from every detail that he's here for sex with my daughter. Moreover, my conjecture revamps in a conclusion when he calls my daughter telling her that he had brought the condoms and had read how to do it. Finally he hangs up after my daughter tells him that she would be there in half an hour.  
I am greatly outraged to have heard everything myself and decides to throw Mike out of my home. But in that moment between the blizzards rising beneath me, my conscience stops me. I tell myself that if it would not be Mike than maybe it would be someone else; sooner or later this would take place. So now I overturn my decision of throwing Mike out to rather teaching him safe and better sex.

### I waddle behind him in tip-toe and confront him before he has managed to hide away the magnums. Being caught red handed he is spilling tears down his cheeks, begging me to forgive him and not to tell anything to his mom.  
I feign my anger at him and I am delighted to watch him imploring me.

Now that I have realized that he is in my grasp, I ask him to shut up and only listen to which he concurs though still in tears {I love watching him cry in this fantasy}

### I ask him everything from his purpose of visit to his previous sexual relationships and he, poor thing, confesses everything.  
He tells me that he is a virgin and what I do to hear this, I laugh and ridicule him. I clearly state to him that if he wants my silence on this then he needs to accept his punishment. He begs me to offer him with any punishment but to tell his parents.  
He is repenting his actions insomuch that when I tell him to put off his clothes as a punishment he does it, without any asking.  
He is now only in his boxers, breathing heavy and now and then wiping his tears. When I tell him to even drop his boxers he gives a stupefied glance but I overpower him with my stringent look.  
Tractable as he is, he takes off his boxers and now timidly hides his nudity with his hands. What a pity!  
His tears have only increased now and a fire has begun to scorch me beneath.  
When he looks up in my eyes I can empathise with him, at his shame and mortification.  
'Okay don't cry' I tell him and to his surprise starts to take off my clothes. His tears have stopped but his heart beat has intensified.  
When I have dropped all my clothes I look towards his grave face, but soon something else calls for my attention. His thick penis has roused and hardened and his attempt covering it behind his hands is in vain.

### Undoubtedly, I am filled with passion to spread my legs wide and to fuck this cock at once but with might I pull myself together, still keeping him at receiving end.  
I tell him very clearly that his punishment will be tutelage for him that would help him to learn better sex.

### He rolls his eyes up as if he had got wind of my plan. Without wasting any time I tell him that he has to fuck me and his heart beat is now audible to my ears.  
He is still shy and makes least movements and his face turns so red that it appears as if all blood from his body has reached in his face.

### I remind him that it would rather be easy for me to call his mom and with its mere mention he jumps right up.  
He turns me and is about to thrust his enormous penis in my vagina but I stop him, you always should start from the boobs, ladies love it, I tell him.  
Now he is kissing my breast, pressing them again and again. Since he is a newbie so he is unaware how hard one should press a boob and as a greenhorn he squeezes my boobs so hard that I had to remind him that they are my body part, not some sponge balls.

### After sometime I tell him that now he could move down but when he is about to penetrate I push him behind and tells him to lick.  
He obeys, rather excited, I can see. The fire in me rises once his tongue is hitting my clit. Oh so good it feels, I am asking him to take it deeper and when he does it, I praise him.

### I tell him now to finally fuck me to which he is overjoyed.  
But before he could begin I again push him back and tell him to wear a condom and clearly tell him that he should wear it every time before making an intercourse.  
Once he has worn it, he jumps at me and fucks my cunt so hard that I begin to ask him to slow down. Like animal with all force he is fucking, lying on top of me and the vigour with which his thighs are hitting mine, it makes a loud sound.

### He ejaculates prematurely but I don't complain.  
I pull off the condom that is filled with semen and throw it in the trash. He begs me never to tell about this to anybody ever and I take his promise that he would always wear a condom before he fucks any other girl.

### Now is the time for a hot shower so I take my leave from him.

# CRAIG HARPER

# 32

# NEW YORK

# FREELANCE MODEL

### I retrospect that I used to have a freckled face which was a butt of the jokes of my classmates. I abhorred watching myself in the mirror from the day when Cheryl turned down my prom request, though amicably, but it felt really bad. People around me made fun of me calling me ignorant and stupid for making a try at a beautiful girl when I was only ugly.

### To be honest I was filled with self-disgust and contempt towards Cheryl. I prayed that something horrible occur to her. You can understand what state of mind I was in. I was the only one who didn't attend the prom and the worst I was not even missed.

### Time flies. In college I started doing gym and my freckles were treated with the help of a dermatologist. I trained hard and started modelling. I am not that person who blows his own trumpet; girls were now attracted towards me. You know that feeling when your fortune changes and you know that you're a better man than you once used to be.

### Okay coming back to the subject, I finally had sex with Cheryl eight years after the prom night.  
It happened that we were at the same party and when I saw her I tried to be evasive as her presence was making me remember the harsh past of mine.  
Hardly ten minutes had elapsed when I felt a hand on my shoulder. Guess what, as I turned it was Cheryl who looked surprised but also mesmerized with such a great change in me.  
Her amicable nature resulted in our bonding at that dull party. We went to a corner and had a great chat about people we knew from school and many things else.

### After the party was over I took her for a drive and yes she even talked about the prom night. In a jocular way she said that had she known that I would bloom into such a handsome man she wouldn't have said no.  
She asked me to kill the engine on this dark and silent street and I sensed where this was going. So I parked my car at the side. There was absolute silence in the proximity, it was 11 or may be 12 of the night, I don't exactly remember.  
She said something, ah yes she called my name and when I looked at her face she was not blinking and to be honest neither was I.

### She pulled herself towards me and gave a hard smooch. Oh boy, I immediately asked her to get to the back of the car. After eight years I had this girl whom I once worshiped and also, first love is first love.

### Even before I had entered the back she and I were kissing hard.

### Once inside, I slowly undressed her while she was sucking at my penis. Her pink tits, her breasts, was so beautiful, I swear, even porn stars do not have breasts like that.  
I buried my face between her boobs while she held me by my hairs in pleasure. This had already turned her on so greatly that her finger was at this moment inside her pussy, momentarily coming out in between, before moving back right in.  
I undid my jeans and dropped my briefs but did not begin to fuck her, right there. I teased her, slowly rubbing my cock over her labia. This move can make any woman in good offices with you.  
Her moaning was music to my ears. She was sweating even when the AC was on. This is the power of teasing. I slowly rubbed my penis against her elbow, thighs and tits but didn't let her touch it once.  
When I finally thrust my penis in her pussy, she scratched my back so bad that I could feel the bruise on my back but nevertheless I loved it. I fucked her real good without giving second thoughts of someone's coming. It was great night. Oh yeah one more thing while I was fucking she asked me to spank her for refusing to go prom with me. I love surprises and in sex, surprise works wonders.

### I spanked my girl really bad and dropped so much cum at the end that it was everywhere from her nose, forehead, lips, and eyes, even at my backseat.

### It was one hell of a night.

# DEBBIE DOYLE

# 23

# NEW YORK

# MC DONALDS

### Simon and my mom went to school together. They were in the same class till high school.

### When he came to New York for the first time, it was my mom only who helped him find property in the neighbourhood.

### Simon's family is in Manchester. His wife works there and it was their mutual decision to raise their kids only in England that is why Simon came to New York alone.

### He is an accountant in a reputed firm and a revered person.

### Though he is not someone whom you will fall in love on your first glance but spend sometime around him and you would be stung with love.

### I saw his school photographs and immediately fell for him. He was so striking and handsome man back at school. He has changed drastically now but I like him.

### Honestly, I have never had any relationship with him as it bothers me how mom will react on finding about all this. But that doesn't stop me from dreaming about him doing all sorts of kinky stuff to me.

### On many sleepless nights I have cogitated how horny he might get sometimes for he stays all alone.

### My mom, in every six months, flies to attend some meeting related with her work. On such occasion I generally stay alone or sleep over at my friends place.

### Okay so my fantasy takes place in this time period only, when mom is out of town attending her meeting and I have been left to stay with Simon.

### I picture himself cooking, showing off his culinary skills while I sit nearby at a table in attendance.  
In no time I am overpowered by the compulsion to vacant my chair and move near him on pretext of observing him cook. He is worried to see me get close to the stove but declines to say anything.  
He shows off to me, flipping an omelette and when his muscles swells while he pushes the pan up, I realize how bad my heart is pounding and I worry how bad its condition will get if I do not get to fuck him.  
I grab at the next moment on his penis, perhaps with more force than a women is supposed to hold it.  
Simons teeth's are tightened together, a long exhale is followed by a hasten collection of his unbridled sense.  
''This is not right'' he manages to utter but I sense how little he makes his word sound in authority.  
I keep at squishing at his pole-of-a-cock under his pant and then stroking it timely.  
He somehow manages to place the pan from his hand and turn off the burners. His protesting has stopped and either he has forgotten of what is happening or decidedly let things culminate further.  
He then holds my neck while still panting and gives a kiss on my lips. Lust has now wholly powered him. So he raises me in his arms and places me on the rack. He stoops down then and smells at my cunt like a dog that has got hold of a juicy bone in a long time. The smell of my down is relish to him and now he pulls off my panty and begins to lick at my pink pussy.

### After being comported that he has licked my pussy to the fullest of his sexual appetite, he takes off his clothes. I see hairs on his chest which makes him look so manly. He takes off my top too and then cups my boob, shaking them and sucking at them.  
Now he gives a look at me and its coherent, the look of a horny man, so I turn on my back making the ingress of his penis easy.  
Now he put his red hot penis inside my little clit, oh I feel so much pain in the beginning but the pleasure that follows is no less.  
He fucks me hard from behind and at one moment my squirt drops down my thigh from my vagina shaking me up, a sign that makes him crazy with joy. "Oh my angel" he says placing his chin on my back. He does not bother to stop fucking me but grow even wilder in passion and succeeds in giving me the fuck of my life.

### Sometimes I fantasize of him filming all this. Anyways it really feels bad that this would never come to pass in reality so I guess I would keep on squirting to this wonderful fantasy of mine.

# ELLIOT (name changed)

# 33

# WALDOBORO

# SELF EMPLOYED

### I eloped with a man; against my family's wish, even before I had attained the age eighteen.  
And trust me it turned out to be one of my gravest mistakes. My ties with my family soured for good, my studies came to an end and the most excruciating pain was when this man for whom I left everything treated me like trash.  
He was a beater and a drunkard. The more he drank, the more truculent he grew.  
I kept on asking him in earnest to leave behind all his shenanigans in order to start the life he made me dream of but in vain.

### When things became worse I left this man and came to Ohio where luck favoured me and I got not only a vocation but also a loving man.

### My first failed marriage has given me sores which couldn't heal in this lifetime.  
However, I have concocted a fantasy to assuage this pain where I give him back in his own coin and what better way is there than BDSM.

### So in my fantasy, my ex-husband is an effeminate on whom I am hell-bent to inflict all my ire.  
He is tied to a standing table and begging me to set him free. It's a long white hall and suddenly the door fly's open and scores of people ingress. They are here to witness the program where I, the sadist lady will torture her man.

### The audience are all known faces; his colleagues, my friends, neighbours. Once the people have taken their posts the lights are dimmed and I am handed a box which contains items I will need in BDSM.

### My poor ex-husband is already weeping for he knows whatever that will follow will not be good.  
From the box, I take out the first prop- a leather truncheon with a leather dildo at one end.  
Slowly I take this below him and inserts right in his ass, turning deaf ears to his numerous pleas to stop.  
I keep on fucking him in the ass with the truncheon and the audience cheers to the cries and shrieks of my bastard ex-husband.

### Once I have fucked him with the whole ten inches, the dildo magic fades so now I take out the second item from the box- clothes peg.  
I clip the pegs on his nipples, scrotum, hips, penis and this makes the crowd enthral.  
I put my hand in the box and takes out a dog collar and a chain. I blindfold him first and put the collar around his neck. His hands and legs are then untied and I order him to keep moving if he intends to finish this fast.  
Like a faithful canine he walks on all fours. I take him to the audience to punish him, for all of them empathise with me. He is made to lick the feet of every person. A woman pushes her feet towards his throat and loves when he starts chocking.  
Then she pulls her skirt up from her foot and pulling him by his hairs pushes his face inside her skirt.  
"Lick it hard you bitch" she rapped  
His face disappears inside her skirt and all we hear from his side is a lapping sound of him licking on her cunt.  
The woman feels the pleasure but in vehemence she starts pushing his head with more force. I help by holding his head from behind.  
Soon he starts to flail in short of air and pushes his head out to inhale.  
This angers the lady and she slaps him hard pulling him by his hairs. Then she push his face anew inside her skirt until he stifles and force himself out yet again to breathe.  
The lady spits in his mouth before she gestures me to take him away. I pull him by his chain to a burly gentleman who has shown interest to participate.  
This man takes outright his dick and pees on my ex-husbands face to everyone's surprise. Then he makes him lick the tip of his penis. When the gentleman is settled I pull the chain again and take my ex-husband back to the table where he is tied to his former position.  
He is sobbing but now it means nothing to me and now he means nothing to me.

### My audience goes nuts in fervour once I push his foreskin at the farthest point while he writhe's in pain.  
While done here, I push my hand inside the box and take out the final prop of the night, a strap-on.  
Suddenly every face in the audience has turned attentive. I wear it and fuck him in the mouth. He is already coughing and salivating and pleading but his cries go unnoticed.  
Then I fuck him in the rear like it is the last fuck of this generation, like I am meant to tear him apart.  
His cries again go unnoticed when it dies in the cheers of the audience who are on their feet now, clapping and rooting for me.

### In the end of this fantasy I spit on his face before I exit the place while he lies enervated on the table.

### You may think of me as monstrous women but you don't know what I have gone through.

### ["A young shattered heart pains forever"- Eden Evans]

# ERIKA

# 22

# NEW ORLEANS

# STUDENT (HISTORY)

### I grew up in New Orleans. I am the eldest of three sisters and I came to New York for my Masters about a year ago.

### Since I am a history major so my fantasies are vivid for they take place in the antiquity.

### I don't exactly remember as to when I got hold of this fantasy but it surely is one of my personal favourites.

### So In this fantasy I see a truce has been agreed between two armies after seven days of war. The king of the weaker side hereon tries to persuade his omnipotent opponent king to restore peace and call off war.

### To please the lordship of the omnipotent king I shall be gifted to him for a night and I am in this fantasy the daughter of the weaker king.

### I am bathed in a waterfall and then ornate with wreathes of daisy overhead and cladded in a white elegant gown.

### When ready I am brought in a litter to the enemy kings resting place. I am shown into a big tent where his lordship is busy cleaning his sword. There is a pool in this tent over which floats numerous rose petals.  
Once the arrases are pulled, the king rises to have a drink of wine and its only now when for the first time he lays his eyes on me. I can sense how he has already begun to undress me in his mind. With his wine grail in his hand he walks towards me and surveys, going around me watching me on all sides.  
Now he comes behind me and raises my gown to have a look of my ass while I remain coyly silent in his lordship's veneration. He continues then to walk around me touching my hairs, touching my lips and shoulders.  
He is handsome, strongly built, dark, bearded and his eyes have a charm of a kind that nobody could remain sober in its influence.  
I am already scintillated with the power of his touch. He slowly takes the grail towards my lips and makes me drink few sips of his wine.  
He drinks the droplet of wine dangling down my upper lip and then finishes his remnant of wine in the grail.  
Then he slowly comes near me and smell the wreath on my head. Slowly he keeps on coming towards my shoulder, still smelling and then move towards my hand, my leg and my thighs.  
The touch of his beard and nose had kindled a fire beneath me in which I seem to be burning now. He takes me by my hand, after he has dropped his tunics and bared all.  
We step into the pool and his eyes are fixed on my face. I see his penis swell to the full of its capacity and this makes me blush.

### My white sodden clothes have now turned translucent making my privates visible. He feels my breast taking his time to notice my emotions shift as I get hornier.

### Finally he takes off my clothes and throws them out of the pool. The rose petals keeps sticking and then floating off from our bodies. His penis reaches an erection to his navel and I am worried now for my vagina. After few kisses and hugs he lifts me on his shoulder holding my hips with my belly resting on his shoulder and carries me to his bed. He tosses me on this giant, round bed of his decorated in Red Indian silk.  
He jumps on me like a famished lion and push his cock inside me without waiting. He is holding with one hand my hairs behind my ear and with the other my neck as he pushes his cock in and out of me. Heaves and moans fill the room and the bed is shaking violently as we continue to make love.

### At the end he is fucking me in doggy style still holding my hairs with one hand and cum on my ass his sticky white juice which flows down slowly tickling the back of my leg.

# EVELYN

# 32

# SOUTH DAKOTA

# WHITE-COLLAR JOB

### I was a naughty, curious and experimenting girl, since always. I started smoking when I was 12, did drugs at 14, went to rehab around 16.

### When my kith and kin had given up on me, I returned back stronger and with me returned all delectations. However my habit of experimenting never died away.

### This incident took place some seven-eight years ago. I was at this store buying bras for myself. A guy in his 20s was helping me by showing various types of bras to peek my interest for a better buying experience. He was cute, soft spoken and didn't lose calm even when I was not able to pick a bra in half an hour.  
The collection was good but I was confounded by so many good pieces before my eyes.

### I don't know if it was his smile or his nature on which my heart slipped but suddenly I was only hounded by one thought- to have him on top of me.

### I picked up few bras and asked him to follow me to the changing kiosk so that he could tell how they looked on me.  
He smiled heartily and said in a murmur "Wait a sec" before he went to a salesperson standing on the next counter, said something, quite softly, and then came back.  
Perhaps he knew where this was heading to, for his smile didn't sear for a moment till we walked to the changing kiosk.  
I stepped inside the kiosk, leaving him standing outside, thinking of laying my first move now. Already my stomach felt butterflies; I put off my top and bra and in an instant unlatched the door.

### To this day I don't know if there were any CCTV cameras to record this but I hope there were none. As the door opened he was standing in front, his eyes surely showed spark of a kind. He turned his head to survey the surrounding and in haste stepped inside.

### He clasped my boob, one after the other while rubbing his tightened crotch against my skirt.  
I felt his shlong clearly even when at this moment it was elusive behind his trousers. After few smacks, he revealed his shlong, taking it out after unzipping his trouser.  
It was thick, not that long, maybe medium and bushy. I gave him head, licking his dick with relish.  
Though there was some music being played on the audio system in the store yet we were cautious to make any provocative noise on our part, for just adjoining to this changing room were three other set of kiosks which could have been in use at that epoch.  
In this cubicle there were two set of big mirrors almost covering whole wall on the left and upfront. Watching oneself giving those pleasures to each other in the mirror was so amorously uplifting.

### As I was in the midst of giving him the blowjob, he removed my hair clutcher and really I was perplexed when he asked me to show him how those bras fitted on me.

### Perhaps he had been in similar sexual escapades prior, I got an impression but on my part, this fling of mine was to be indulged in and forgotten for good so I repressed these thoughts quickly.

### I tried a black polka dotted bra firstly and it not only fitted well but looked classy. He praised me to the extent that it sounded like cajolery. He asked me to turn around and complimented me for my sexy back.  
I tried the next bra which was reddish and definitely its effect on him was visceral. Red is a weakness for most man which I have fondly observed on many occasions in my life. He kissed my cheeks and then my cleavage which was surreal yet joyous for me.  
The last bra I tried was brownish with light print of maple leaf. It was good and he thoroughly praised it on me.

### After that inadvertent waiting in the midst of sex, I was greatly aroused and so was he. I dropped the bra on the floor and went ahead to kiss him.

### After that he dropped my skirt down and gently ran his finger on the piercing of my labia. He kept licking his finger after pushing it deep in my vagina, for some time. I loved it; I loved it to the extent that I had given him kisses all over his neck in my heightened state.  
Once nude, he asked me to take position and I leapt on the mirror in front with one leg raised to the wall at the side and other firmly placed on the floor.

### I was in heels yet I managed a good posture for his sake and after a few failed attempts he finally pushed his penis in my anus.  
My boobs were squeezed against the mirror, on which I lay; it seemed like fucking my own reflection. It was chuffing, narcissism at its height as I was pulled in admiration of my own bodice or maybe it was the spell of his magical cock that had transposed me to some other heaven.  
For me watching him, while he fucked my rear, in the side mirror, quintupled my pleasure for sure.

### I definitely heard people in the adjoining kiosk but gave a heck not and so didn't he.

### We also fucked while lying on that small cubicle floor, undoubtedly that was difficult but sex drives you to the best of your limits. It was a quickie as he sprayed his cum on the mirror itself within ten minutes, before he went out, cautiously. I followed suit leaving behind that mess on the mirror as a souvenir of our good time.

### When I stepped outside I willingly moved to the nearest counter where the bill was made and from the back door I stepped out with a raunchy secret buried in my bosom.

# FIONA

# 28

# DENTAL ASSISTANT

# MANHATTAN

### I was born and brought up in this place only. My dad is an American while my mom is of French ancestry.

### Thanks to my genes, I reached puberty quite early and had loved flaunting my body ever since.

### ("You see these boobs are real, go ahead and touch it, no seriously dude go ahead")

### [We were at a café when this girl, honestly, made me touch her boobs. What a girl!]

### When the other girls of my age were only beginning to use tampons; I was already having climaxes.

### Firstly, I was stressed with the change my body showed when other girls were still normal. I became a butt of joke and also faced some lewd remarks from boys around. But soon I discovered the power of my body which I availed rightly to enhance my personality and boost my confidence.

### I was envied for my full bodied figure by some close knitted friends and even girls senior to me.  
At the streets frequent catcalls echoed after me which was hilarious and at the same time admirable for me.

### I dressed slutty with cut tops of bold prints making cleavage visible and loved to see men go weak in their knees.

### I dated a guy who was a good person though but we broke up over a mundane issue, you know- teenage love. After breakup with him, I began to fantasize about his brother who was quite elder to me and was a bright kid as far as I know. On occasions he would chit-chat or passed smiles not in a salacious but a friendly manner.  
I was smitten by him, I don't know why and this fantasy is my tribute to him.

### I see a calm lake ahead, wheezing birds on tree tops, orchard around. I am sitting with his arms around me, my head resting on his chest, my hand in his. I can feel his heartbeats clearly. He hums his favourite song now, in which I join in and to and fro shaking like a cute pair our voices blends in that song.

### The beauty of nature is at its pinnacle and our loneliness had certainly given us the liberty of sealing this moment in our memories for good.  
I give him a peck on his hand and already I can see his muscles flexing. He knows what I want and like any other love bird makes his best efforts to rejoice me.

### He plants numerous kisses on my face, plays with my hair, rubs my hand cosily and looks deep in my eyes which are only filled with love for him. Everything appears like a masterpiece of some romanticist's creation.  
He lifts my top and drop down my bra with his firm hands. Since he is standing behind me with his chin on my shoulder, it excites him more to see my breast from above. He fondles them first and then slowly lifts them as if trying to weight them. His hand reaches between my legs and stimulation of his fingers are uncontrollably pushing me to an abyss of pleasure.

### He takes pride in watching me lost in pleasure even before he has put his penis to use.  
He takes off my knickers before his fingers are again in my red pussy and he strokes them even harder now. My awareness of surrounding dwindles as my experience of pleasure intensifies. What I feel is inexplicable, I pinch my tits with full vigour, bite my lips in passion, tap my pussy in excitement.  
Suddenly I can feel it, the women's boon, my g-spot, being reached. I can feel my body trembling in fervour, which makes him stop fingering me. And beneath me something hot rises that I have no power of any kind to subdue. I squirt my hot juices all over him and around me, shaking violently, turning side to side and pushing my legs straight as far I can manage.  
He is pushed to the edge now; he drops his pants and climbs over me. He spits on my vagina and then lubricates his penis by spiting on it too.

### And in a moment, the flame that had began to fade in me, picks up even more wildly now.

### He fucks all my holes, one after the other and I squirt multiple times. Actually we lay in my squirt continuing to make love.

### He reaches climax finally when he discharges his semen inside me. In the end we are cuddled together, still without clothes, watching in silence, the starry sky and fireflies over the lake.

# FLORENCE

# 29

# BRONX

# ARCHITECT

I am in an open relationship with my boyfriend of three years. He is a game developer and seven years elder to me. I am an architect, like I told you before.

### Though we are both working but still we spend quality time with each other in the evening and on weekends.  
We are also busy house hunting these days as we plan on starting our own family by the next year.

### As we are in an open relationship so we don't shy away from telling each other our sexual fantasies.

### One of the ground rules in our relationship is to take permission from the other partner before you can have sex with someone. By means of this, the other partner knows with whom we are going out.  
It is also a tradition to narrate to each other snippets from such sexual dalliance, which does in no way mitigate love but maintains a spark in our relationship.

### I love fantasizing; well in fact I fantasize quite a lot. My best fantasy is one in which my boyfriend is a homo.

### This fantasy begins with me undressing a man while my husband sits nearby watching. Once our guest is out of his clothes and his cock gets hard, my boyfriend lunges forward holding shaped butts of our guest and starts sucking his cock.  
Our guest is a Bi himself, so he is very happy with my boyfriend's hospitality. After sometime, my boyfriend sucks our guest's rear, while he fondly sucks my toes.

[For better reading I have named the guest as Mr G from here]

### Then Mr G kisses on my vulva. Soon his tongue delves into my clitoris manifolds. In throes of excitement, my head falls back and his grip around my thighs tightens as if I would run away from that excess of pleasure I was being pampered with.

### My boyfriend in the meantime has taken the right spot between Mr G's legs from where he easily sucks his scrotum.  
After enchanting me with his tongue, Mr G gets between my legs to show his manliness.  
Mr G pushes his moistened prick, from my husband's service, inside my pussy and I think I couldn't handle it.

### The sight of my husband doing all the unmentionables to Mr G makes me climax many a times.  
He continually gives ecstasy to Mr G by putting his tongue in between my anus and Mr G's cock.

### When I am thoroughly satisfied I take Mr G's leave and after I have gone my husband does the rest. He sucks Mr G's cock for the last time and doesn't stop before his mouth is filled with sweet cum of Mr G.

### Ironically my husband is a straight guy, so this fantasy will never come to pass.

### [Does your husband know about this fantasy?]  
(Yeah I told him about this fantasy but he laughed as a buffoon and clearly stated "Honey! This is never happening")

# GREGORY COOPER

# 29

# VIRGINIA

# GUIDE

### I was born in Virginia and came to New York some seven years ago. Before it, I have stayed in few other places- including Canada and Mexico.  
Both my parents were doctors and were inclined on making me one but I chose a different line of work. They support me very much and I call them every week. They still live in Virginia.

### What I am about to tell you is all real, which, I have never told to anyone else.

### Bray was one of my college friends. We used to spend lots of time together playing video games or just goofing around.  
Amanda (name changed) was Bray's younger sister. She used to behave abnormally when I was around. With time her uncanny behaviour began to pester me.  
After talking with her on one fine day, at the college, (she attended the same college) I was told that she liked me. I didn't like the idea of fraternizing with my friend's sister, so I candidly told her that our dating would not be a good idea.  
At that moment, she appeared to have accepted it but once few days passed the cat was put out of the bag.  
She wanted me actually to take her virginity, which she communicated through several innuendos. Her presence around me was pestering and I stopped visiting Bray for some time.

### Even at the college I was not spared, sometimes it was she herself making scabrous gestures and on other occasions it was her friends who used to whistle or call my name whenever I was around. This began to agitate me after sometime. It really is harrowing when you are in no need of sex and somebody begins to get on your nerves seeking for it.

### When I have had enough of her, I decided to fulfil her wish, finally but only to save myself from her everyday tortures.

### Now, I will be honest about her appearance. She was not a serene perfection of beauty but would not have been denied easily if she offered her virginity to anyone.

### It happened at my place where I took her straight from college. It was all pre planned in order to escape from the eyes of others.

### She was pretentious while we had sex, trying greatly to imitate porn stars. The sad part was that she failed miserably at it and all her sexual manoeuvres were amateurish.  
The high part of this unfair sexual incident was the glee on her face, which was out of bounds, while she held my erect cock in her hand.

### In a short span of time she was trying so many different things, none perfectly, that it grew frustrating. In every two minutes she changed positions and I was left fuming.

### She kept touching my face while I nailed her. Even before I had reached the climax she kept reminding me to only cum in her mouth, when the need arose.

### I came in her mouth at the end and she ostentatiously swallowed it but made such a horrible face after that I couldn't help laughing. All my anger thwarted.

### I used to repent this later whenever Bray was around. Many a time I found myself on the verge of telling him but a sudden fear attenuated me.

### Things grew better for me after that day but I began to stay aloof of Bray's company.

### When I was in Mexico, she mailed me a picture of her new waist tattoo showing her bareback, I sent back a smiley to her.

# KAAYA KAUR SAMUEL

# 34

# CHICAGO

# LAWYER

### I am an Indian. I was born in the state of Punjab and came for the higher studies to the States. My father is a marine engineer and my mother is an activist.

### I grew up in a patriarchal society around me, where many restrictions, both customary and political were imposed on women by leftists.  
Since both my parents were educated, they knew the importance of quality education and thus made every possible effort to provide me with one.  
Not all girls around me were that lucky. Many of my childhood friends were married at an early age which was devastating for me to witness.  
Things are getting better and better now, every time I visit my hometown, I clearly see advancements in the norms than those that prevailed in my times.

The last two years of my school life was spent in New Delhi and no denying, I was a very shy girl as a result of my upbringings. Also I was not this rotund then. (Laughs)  
There were few propositions too but I couldn't muster enough courage to steer it further and hence boys lost interest in me very quickly. I was never in a relationship in my school life.

### I came to Chicago to pursue law immediately after school. It was now that my repressed mentality began to broaden up.

### Stacy was my first friend here and with time our bonding grew stronger. She is my confidante and more like a sister to me now.

### Before I begin with my real story I have to say something. It baffles me, how people take relationships these days. They will fall in love just like that and then you could find them plaintive for their failed relationship.  
It spleens me when a person tells me that so and so wasn't a good partner because of which their relationship collapsed. Oh common, weren't you also the one that began the relationship, so why is only the other half to be blamed.

### Though it is one's personal approach but through your book I wish to convey to the people, the importance of trust which is the harbinger of good relationship. And trust my friend, is not build in a day or two or even weeks.

### Peter was the younger brother of Stacey whom I met at their parent's marriage anniversary party. Initially I hesitated mixing with him but soon we began to see each other more often and I realized how sweet he was. Unlike other guys who see women as an object to demulcent their sexual urges, he respected me.  
There was trust for me in his eyes and our relation that began as a friendship, soon blossomed into love without our knowledge.

### Stacey was very happy once she came to know about our relationship.

### I completed law and was employed in a firm. Peter became a pharmacologist. Until then we kept supporting each other and only after we were both settled we decided to take our relationship further, as was our mutual agreement.

### To commemorate our fifth anniversary, we went to Switzerland. The place we rented was in the scenic beauty of mountains, meadows ahead and a waterfall at the back.

In the evening, Peter brought a wine. He made the dinner himself while I decorated our room and lit the lavender candles. After the dinner, he picked me in his arms and began kissing me. He carried me to the bed where for the first time in five years we were about to have sex. It was wild. (Laughs)  
We kept lying in each other's arm for some time and the gush of cold air sweeping from the mountains stole through our window to enliven us. We again were ready to have it, this time closer to the window and then we had sex in the veranda. (Laughs)

### Now the best part of my story, I married him later and we have two wonderful sons together. We are a happy family.

### Don't think of me as an overbearing person but try to find someone whom you can trust and you may not know what a wonderful life partner you may come across. I would have never fallen in love with anyone else if Peter had broken my heart but he didn't and I feel so lucky to have got such a great partner.

# KAROLYN

# 27

# BRONX

# BLOGGER

### One of my English professors at the college was a very handsome man. He taught us literature and I don't remember any girl who has escaped his class. He was tall, slender, swarthy, and funny who was loved by all his students. His raffish personality, caring nature and eyes brimming with confidence affected us girls greatly.  
Though he was a married man but many girls brazenly flirted with him which would embarrass him sometimes.  
He was not only endowed with magical looks but also had great respect for his work. Nobody can teach literature better than he did.

### At times I would mull what made him choose teaching because people make fortunes in modelling with that kind of looks.

I am more of a porn person than a fantasy one. Porn and veggies work best for me. (Smiles)

### However, I had my own fantasies when I was in the college and he was the only person I would fantasize about.

### It begins like this- after college I am staying back to attend an extra class because of my poor grades. He is busy teaching me some Shakespeare's play. His looks are deceiving me to rise from my chair, walk to him and then embrace him. I soon relent to my temptation compelled by my wild senses and his charm.  
He pushes me away vexed by such attitude of mine and warns me that he would report this with the dean. Since this is my fantasy, its setting is in anarchy. I seize him by his hand and blackmail him to fuck me or else I would tell everyone how he molested me in this class.  
He is wild with rage but soon an air of terror grips him and he falls on his chair helpless, still trying to make his mind. I tell him that nobody would ever find out and its only ten minutes that this would take. He acquiesce the offer, oh how in my world he won't.

### I drop the duster, chalk and his pen from the table before comfortably sitting on the edge. I make him kiss me and when he does I begin to suck his tongue. Then I push my skirt up, I am not wearing underwear. I ask him to suck my pussy lips which he does but he seems more nervous than in pleasure. I take out his penis then and as my lips covers it something amazing happens.  
His hand raises and sets on my head. I can tell he is in great pleasure. Maybe he is not used to receiving blowjobs at the hands of his wife.( I read it somewhere that few women don't give their man the comfort of blowjob).

### Now the professor is in, he moans and makes sound as if he has eaten something very bitter. Fear still shows on his face and he asks to rush things further quickly. Since I don't want him to be in any trouble, I lie flat on my back at the table and asks him to fuck.

### He pushes his cock in my vagina and begins to jerk his bottom. Oh I am mad with excitement and pleasure in which I begin to tear my top but he makes me stop it. He is composed while fucking me and knows exactly how to give satisfaction to a woman. I am screaming in between whenever he wildly pushes his cock inside me. He doesn't bother himself to make me stop screaming now as he secretly loves it. You see us woman, makes a man feel his manliness in bed for which they should be thankful to us. He ejects his semen inside me accidently at the end and prays me to take contraceptive pill when I reach home. But an ending is just a new beginning.

### You may have already guessed the setting of my other fantasy which is just the continuation of another blackmail fuck story.

# LIZZIE PATRICK

# 30

# SOUTH CAROLINA

#  JOURNALIST

### I love the night life of New York. I frequent clubs quite often here. Making new friends, knowing people from diverse backgrounds are some of my passions.

### I grew up, a single child in South Carolina. Anything I demanded was presented to me without any protest from my parents. I had enviable number of dresses and variety of footwear to match my clothes. Even though I grew up in an affluent family, I was never impudent or shrouded in vanity.

### I am a journalist here and my job requires me to remain updated about the world happenings. At times I can be pedantic and when drunk, idiotic latter of which occurs seldom.

### Okay this was sometimes back. I had always heard this casual adage from ladies at the club and from my peers 'when you go black, you cannot go back'. I had never seen a black man's package, until then and was on the lookout for one handsome black man.  
I never came across an interested black man until one night at the club.

### I was busy chatting with the ladies and making new acquaintance, when my eyes fell on this man. He was standing alone, near the entrance just few tables away from me, with a drink in his hand. He was a black man, dressed in formals and through his actions he looked interested in me. He was sneering at me for some time and when our eyes met he gave me a wide smile, showing his white sparkling teeth's. As soon as the opportunity knocked my doors, I promised myself that I would seize this at any cost. I immediately marked him as the black man who would fulfil my long buried desire.  
I took leave from ladies at the table and walked to the bar, looking inquisitively in his eyes when I passed him.

### As soon as I ordered my Bloody-Mary I realized that he was close behind me and he whispered in my ears "Hello gorgeous".

### I returned a look of surprise but beneath I was so happy for him to have come to me himself. We started talking trying to discover each other. He was mannered, chivalrous and funny, all traits that makes a man appealing to a woman. I also noticed that he was quite rich which I conjectured from his trinkets, gold watch and a gold chain around his neck. It's not like I look for riches in my man but it shows that a man is successful which works in his favour to impress a girl.

### We danced on the dance floor for some time before he offered me to come and see his bungalow. I agreed in no time and he welcomed it with his wide smile, showing his sparkling white teeth's.

### At his plush bungalow we got drunk again and danced together for some time until I couldn't subdue the urge to fuck my first black cock, an urge which I had been pressing for so long.

### While I unbuttoned his trouser, he held my face between his hands, looking deep in my eyes and was I beginning to love him. Oh my first black cock was now in my gaze and what a marvellous sight it was.  
It was a well proportionate cock, quite thick and I had to use both my hands to form a grip around it. I started sucking it and I loved how it felt in my mouth. It was so thick that even when my mouth was wide open sucking this cock it would brush against my teeth. I could have spent whole night sucking him but he intervened and taking off my dress, which I remember none about, wedged his finger in my cunt. I buried my face in his chest when he started sliding it in and out a little faster. He was continually blowing in my boobs as if vicariously inflating them. I loved it but I did not wanted to shilly-shally my first black-cock-fuck so I prayed him to just fuck me or else I would die.

He asked me -the position I would want to start with and I chose me sitting on top of him. Slowly I squatted over his cock and at the perfect angle sat on it. I began pounding on his cock and wow, it felt like nothing else. He had a good stamina and we had fucked quite long. (Oh I am getting horny as I am telling you all this)

### It was a marvel experience for me and I dated this guy for three months before I found an even interesting man, who was also a black guy.

# LYNDA BOTTOMROSE

# 24

# PHEONIX

# CASHIER

### Okay, I will tell you about an incident that occurred in the dorm when I was in college. I was someone, who was not very interested in sex like other girls. We rode on the crest of fun, pranking, drinking but sex was never our priority. Also I will accept that I don't have a very interesting personality and generally take time mixing with people. Perhaps this has inhibited me from thinking about sex.  
There were many girls, I knew, who showed interest in guys and hooked with them. They would later come to our room recounting everything that occurred between them. Some even would bring clippings or pictures to validate that they really had sex with a particular guy.

### Jeremy was a good friend of mine at the college and he invited me to a party that he was throwing in his dorm room. He clearly warned me that it would get dirty since all the guys have secretly planned to fuck girls on pretext of truth and dare game. I thought maybe I would not be involved, since most of the people attending the party, I knew, were in a relationship. I said yes to Jeremy.

### After a few shots, the game began. A bottle was turned and it started real dirty. There were exactly same number of girls and boys. Jeremy had planned everything perfectly. There were many guys whom I had never talked before and now we were playing this game.

### When my turn came, the guy from the opposite side asked me to flash my tits. I flashed my tits quickly but they asked me to do it for a little longer so that everyone can see. So I had to do it again and believe me they were amazed to find that my nipples were pierced. Also I didn't felt shy because by now many girls and guys were already sitting naked, thanks to the game.

### On the second occasion I was asked to give head to a guy. Jeremy intervened but rules were rules. I slowly sat in front of this guy and gave him a blowjob for thirty seconds. It was the first blowjob of the night and this excited everyone insomuch that an orgy began in no time.

### Few of the others waited for some time and joined later. I started with the same guy whom I had earlier given the blowjob. Firstly I was reluctant in having sex and I decided that I would leave after jacking him off.  
But the clamour emanating from the girls getting screwed around was such that I got very horny. When the guy whom I was blowing asked me to turn around so that he could fuck, I conform.

### It was a lovely experience for me. I kept touching his nipples with mine and it made him very excited. Everybody was involved only with one partner but in my mind I was making love to so many of them. I looked around me and so many handsome men, naked, made me slide my finger up my arse, while I was still being fucked. I had two orgasms that night.

### After the orgy was over we could clearly see the semen lying around. I still cherish that night and secretly await another orgy experience of my life.

# MEGHAN

# 27

# MONTANA

# BANK EMPLOYEE

### I grew up in a very conservative family. Both my parents are very religious. I was religious too, a very god fearing person, who daily said her prayers and read Bible. But later I began to abnegate what the Bible said about so many things. I still believe in god but now I have grown distant from the Bible.

### I started masturbating at the age of twelve when a girl described me how it is done and how great it feels. I had seen a porn movie by then but it seriously disgusted me. I thought that porn movies were all fake, probably made with special effects of the camera.

### I was sitting alone when my mind brooded itself on every detail that the girl had earlier told me about masturbation. I bolted my door and took off my clothes. I started touching myself but that didn't worked. I felt very normal, so I pushed my finger a little more inside my vagina, just at the length of my nail. It was beginning to feel good but that good feeling died quickly. I said to myself then why so histrionics from the porn stars when they do it. I was disappointed, even disgusted by that dank feeling of my vagina, when without thinking I took my whole finger inside. Suddenly I was in heavens, masturbation felt so great. I knew that it was the same feeling that girls get when they get fucked.

### I would always repent later, post masturbating, imbued in guilt. At times I would promise myself never to repeat it but I couldn't part myself from the pleasures of masturbation.  
I was very frightened when I had my first period for I thought that the blood was the consequence of my over masturbation.

### I would like to talk about my earliest sexual fantasies. They centred on me being fucked from behind by someone very large whom I couldn't see. I started fantasizing about real guys quite late in my life.

### In my fantasy I am naked and my hands are shackled to a prison door. It's a grave silence all around with only the jangle of my chains being the exception.

### All of a sudden I hear thump of someone's feet approaching towards me. I am scared for the sound is unusually loud for a human to cause. I cannot see backwards or maybe I don't want to. With an askance, I see someone large standing behind me. He is willing to take advantage of me, so he slides his pants down which I can make from the sound of his unzipping his pants.  
I see his hands when he tries to grope me. They are large and his palms appear like it can easily squeeze a basketball. Anyways, I love his touch on my body.  
I throw fits when he starts fucking me with his finger which is as thick as a normal cock. He speeds it up when he sees me biting on the chain to prevent myself from screaming. I scream very loud now, somehow making myself still standing and fighting stupor from pleasure.

### After rejoicing himself from the foreplays, he asks me to bend a little so that he can have a closer look of my pussy. I obey him and bend myself a little. He loves what he finds there and begins to put in the crack his warm tongue. Then he suddenly stands and starts fucking me from behind.

### He is such an animal while he is fucking me. I can feel his cock pressing the walls of my ass. I am wafting in a different world in pleasure. The best part of my fantasy arrives when he puts in his cock inside me and leaves it there hanging for ten minutes in which duration he takes hold of my torso and push me back and forth. I can but only scream at the top of my voice.  
Unlike his burly size he ejaculates quite early but still leaves me satisfied completely.  
He fills in my pussy all his cum and leaves from there. In the end I can hear the sound of his cum falling on the floor from my pussy.

# MONICA

# 33  
BOSTON

# WEB DESIGNER

### I was at my friend's bachelorette party and what an incredible time I have had. This happened seven months ago. We went to Miami, me and a bevy of seventeen women. We were all close knitted friends, so you can surmise yourself as to what the scenario has transformed into. We had great fun even during our travel. Finally we arrived in Miami, the city lights were glittery and our hearts were naughty.

### The hotel that we checked into was overwhelming in terms of beauty. Even many men who were staying at the hotel were very handsome. I developed a fear that I would forget everything and would embarrass everyone by jumping at a man's junk. Many of my friends have resorted to promiscuity in those three days trip.

### Okay I will now straight tell you what happened on the prime night. We were gathered in a hotel room, quite spacious it was, when my eyes fell at the entrance. Five male strippers entered and everybody began cheering, rising on their toes. I was awestruck to see them all. Those men then began their forte- stripping. Every woman likes men with good muscles and I was immediately turned on by their bulging abs.

### Of course Miss Bachelorette was served first when every stripper surrounded her with their dicks in their hands and she licked them all. They also made her lick the ice cream from their dicks. Then their attention was shifted towards the crowd.

### Every stripper started circling around making other women suck at their dicks. I was overjoyed when my turn came. He was an Asian guy who came to me first. I licked off the cream from his abs and then from his dick. He kept gyrating his hips to the music. Soon I had sucked all the strippers and the orgy began. Worst of all the music was reduced and you can hear women shouting very clearly.

### I knew I had to do it as I was very aroused and when a stripper pulled me out I didn't said no. All girls were highly interested in watching me fuck the stripper than they were in watching the other girls since I used to be a very shy girl in school.

### These guys were professional, so they knew exactly how to please a woman. I can say without shame that they knew more about women than we women know about ourselves.

### He fucked me in many different positions. At one point he was fucking me while I was seated on the chair which he had held in the air, in his arms. Other girls kept touching me in between. They also kept saying many vulgar things which helped us perform better.

### He was just a few minutes short than the guy who ejaculated at the very end. He did it on my face exactly where I love it.

# NANCY (name changed)

# 25

# NEW YORK

# WAITRESS

### I am a waitress here in New York. Life is good. After my shift gets over, I generally go to my boyfriend's place.  
When I was single, I used to fantasize a lot but not now. One such fantasy was that I work in a place where I have to make guys cum without touching their penis which earns me monetary bonuses, which is quite a lot.

### It's like a strip club but here competition of voyeur takes place where a guy will sit and watch his chosen girl. The girls will be vying to make their clients cum at the earliest. Whoever succeeds in it would be entitled to receive the bonus. We have first come first serve policy and guys are chosen through a lottery system. The guys are not allowed to touch us at any cost or else as a violation of policy they would be barred for good.

### On the night of the show guys enter the hall and watching girls in the cage on display, chose them.  
The man who chose me is in my own age bracket, young and charming. He occupies the chair in front of my cage and lecherously keeps looking at me, sweating as he begins to get horny.

### An alarm goes off, meaning we have to start then. The girl in the immediate adjacent cage tries a sexy belle to please her client. I on the other hand drop on all fours and try to move slowly towards my man, seductively looking in his eyes. He can see my curves which makes him sizzle in his seat. His wiener is already erect. I am allowed to use objects to please my clients. I pick a jug of skimmed milk from back and starts pouring it over my breasts. The milk travels passing in my blouse between my cleavages, then over my pussy in my thongs, which makes his erection even harder. He breathes heavily, squirming and writhing with lust in his chair.

### I love strip tease very much in real life and in this fantasy I make it to my full avail. I turn my back towards him and pull the knot of my blouse without letting it drop. Under my wrist my blouse is still hugging over my boobs. I squeeze my boob's together, giving rise to my curves and reach for the ice cubes at the back. I start rubbing an ice cube over my breast curves while looking at my man with a smirk. He bites his palm to control his rising urges. He is also touching his cock with one hand.

### Then I pull the string of my lower piece, still not letting it drop. I pull them a little down exposing my thigh but suddenly pulls them back, teasing him at the best. He is continuously shifting his weight on his hips and now he holds at the chair tightly.

But now after ten minutes I am in a dilemma and have to let one of my clothe drop. So I let my thongs drop and it makes a galvanic effect on my client. As he sees my ass, he forgets everything and stands to charge towards me but falls back on his chair, getting hold of himself. I shake my ass for him and his grasp on his dick gets firm. I sit on the floor, raising my legs, placing them on the lattice of the cage and showing him my shaven pussy. I tuck in a finger down my pussy, biting my lips and walk out of the cage towards him. I make him smell that finger which excites him highly. Already he has such a hard on that it has begun to pain in his balls.  
I sit on his knees and start rubbing my asshole over it. He tries to peek in my blouse to get a glimpse of my boobs. I rise before placing my leg on his shoulder so that my pussy is only few inches away from his face. He gives a very serious look as if about to lose his consciousness any minute. Then I turn and walk few steps away from him. I pull out my blouse and waive it holding between my fingers sideways without turning back my head. I toss it back and when I turn, I find him clenching my blouse between his teeth and smelling it as if it were a nosegay of lilies. I return to his knees and hold my boobs in my hands, resting just few inches away from his face. He wants to suck those pink areoles of mine like a suckling but no, not allowed. (Laughs)  
I can see how tight his pants are by now and at this moment I ask him in a very seductive voice to offer me all his cum. I move to my cage when he starts stroking his wiener. I also start to masturbate myself with a vibrator, watching him. He rouses from his chair and had a massive climax, shooting his semen far. I have won, once again.

### He can't get his eyes off me until he disappears out of the hall.

# NIKKIE

# 28

# NEW YORK

# NURSE

### If I am not wrong this incident occurred two years ago. I was going to the hospital for the morning shift (where I am a nurse) when my car broke down at the highway. There was no network on my mobile and still I was seven miles short from reaching my place of work. Few people tried to help by jump starting my car but in vain. It was early hours of the day and people were in a hurry to reach their offices, so no one bothered to stay that long. I was praying that some colleague of mine sees me and gives me a lift but it was just a waste of time.

### After half an hour, a car stopped near me and in it was a man in his late thirties. It appeared to me that I had seen him somewhere but where that I couldn't remember. Finally he told me that he knew I was a nurse for he had seen me at the hospital, few weeks ago, when he brought his niece for her shots. He asked me to hop in the car so that he can drop me at the hospital when I had told him about my ordeals.

### He was polite, speckled and didn't appear like a rascal, so I trusted him and stepped inside.

### He was very silent at first but kept returning his gaze while I was busy checking with my phone for the network. It was some major fault and network was down for some time.

### I started conversing with him. He was an affable person, very easy to please with compliments. Then his conversation diverted in the personal zone and it also began to get steamier. Okay one more thing; this was also a phase in my life when I had not been with a man for long because it was my new job and I was not getting enough time for myself. So when it started getting dirty, I began to get horny. Every question that he put forward, I made an honest attempt to answer them.

### Then he started praising my body and told me that whoever my partner will be, in the future, would be a very lucky man. I thanked him. As you have already noticed by now that I laugh way too much and at that time also I was not able to stop myself from laughing. Then he asked me straight if I would be kind to show him my ass. I was very ashamed firstly because there were cars just behind us and in the other lanes but I relented on it. I pulled down my trousers and he was very excited to see my ass. I was going commando on this day and this also made him very excited. He then asked me how I would take it if he starts driving, pulling out his penis, I only laughed, covering my face.

### It was clear that we were both horny by that time. One of my friends has a garage, on this street where we were at that time. I made the hitchhiker stop the car there while I went to get the keys from my friend. I explained everything to my friend and he gave me the keys of garage, wishing me luck. It was more like a store room when we entered the garage. The hitchhiker gave me a loud kiss and I reciprocated. I took out his spectacles and placed it in his pocket. It was a warm day and the sunlight entering through the broken roof tile had us sweltering in minutes.  
But we didn't stop as our esteems were high.

### He told me that he had not been with a woman like me for long while I was sucking his dick. I kept playing with his balls and licking on them. He was an ass worshiper. He turned me and started kissing on my ass. He licked them very nicely and buried his face between them licking at my anus. I sat on an old washing machine while he fucked me. As it was after very long that I was getting fucked, so it felt very good to me. I don't have to tell you where he cum on me, my ass off course. He walked with me inside the hospital, holding my hand, when we reached there and went away after a kiss.

### Few days later I learnt that he had a wife and a child. I really abhor those people who cheat on their partners. So I ended my relationship with him.

# ODWYNN

# 34

# LONG ISLAND

# GYM TRAINER

### I worked in an organisation in the field of marketing some eight years ago. I had a terrible crush on my boss's wife. She was six years his senior and the duo reminded of 'The beauty and the beast'. She was poles apart than her husband. She was beautiful, prim, reserved and an aesthete with a great knowledge of fashion. If you are thinking her to be a gold digger to have married my rich boss then let me warn you that you are thinking in a wrong way, it was a college romance and they ended up a couple.

### My fantasy revolves around Gina, my boss's wife. It is a dark night, raining cats and dogs outside, when my door bell rings. When my wife opens the door she finds my boss standing drenched in the rain. When he steps in and come face to face with me, he holds my hand and takes me to the corner. I see his plaintive face and fear if things are okay for him. He tells me that his wife caught him with another lady and to take a revenge on him she has proposed to have the night spend with me or else she would leave him. I am not able to believe my ears after hearing this. I agree though showing false emotions of guilt. He informs me that his wife is waiting in the car outside and that he will send her immediately and then he departs. Meanwhile I explain everything to my wife and she also agrees to help me on the condition that she would also be the part of this and that it would be a three some now.

### Now Gina steps in, her pearl necklace, hazel eyes and off shoulder dress makes her look like a perfection of beauty. She has no problem with my wife being a part of this, so we take her to our bedroom. My wife takes off Gina's black dress, while she herself is in her negligee. Gina tells us that she wants to make this day special for herself and I promise her that it would indeed be. I ask her to kiss my wife and what a kiss the ladies give each other, taking off each other clothes. I meanwhile go down on our guest Gina as she moans kissing my wife at her breasts and neck. My wife is making no stones untouched to please our guest. She presses her finger in Gina's clitoris and Gina begins to moan louder.

### They take turns to suck my cock and then join in unison to lick it with their tongues running into each other's. Gina spits at my cock and my wife sucks it then my wife spits at my cock and Gina my darling reciprocates. Gina sits on my erect cock and begins to fuck it while my wife keeps touching her at her erogenous zones. She looks beautiful in her necklace while pounding on my cock. Then I lay her down and ask my wife to hold her hands as I have made my mind that I would give her my all. Since it is my fantasy, I am an alpha here; I fuck her wildly pushing her vaginal walls with hardness of my big dick. She shakes and moans asking my wife to kiss her which she does. When her moans grow louder my wife simply sits on her face and Gina's tongue licks the seeping juice of my wife. In the end I cum on her and she cannot believe the quantity. She takes time to rise from the bed after that hard fuck from me. She gives my wife her pearl necklace before she leaves and to me, she holds my dick hard and utters in my ears that she will return soon.

# RACHAEL

# 28

# NEW YORK

# E-BAY SELLER

### Few years ago my financial condition was ruined by my wrong investing decision. The stocks that I chose turned out to be only a dud for me. I was already in a desperate need for money when I came across an advertisement on Craigslist. It was a fresh advertisement posted only an hour ago about the requirement of a female for a photo shoot. It was also paying handsomely for that job so I immediately called the person who posted it. The man at the other side appeared to be balanced when he talked and assured me that he had booked me for the job only if I could make to the place in an hour. The place was not that far and I reached it before the deadline.  
I was happy that the place was in a plush society which was a sign for me that it wasn't a sham but what it turned out to be would actually blow your mind, wait till you hear it.  
The door was answered by a man, not at all handsome, who turned out to be the same person who posted the advertisement. He looked happy to receive me and said that I would be perfect for the job, even before I had barely stepped in.  
There were few other cameras settled on the tripod and the man also had one in his hand. He inquired me of my age and name which I told him without remorse. He asked me then to take few minutes to relax before he starts to shoot my photos. I still confirmed about the money and he assured me that I would be entitled to receive that money once the shoot is over. He also said that if everything worked I could even earn double the amount with another deal. It really interested me very much as I was in need. I posed for him then and he began clicking the pictures. He would show me the pictures of some of the world's best models and asked me to pose in the same way which I think I imitated well.  
He still kept mentioning about the other lucrative deal I could be the part of. When it grew difficult for me to abstain myself from asking him I enquired about that deal. I remember how he smiled.  
He confessed that he was not a photographer but a person who is willing to get laid and for that he is willing to pay me.  
The whole setting was earlier looking creditable but now I was scared. My sudden whim was to pick my bag up and leave his premises but then he took out $3000 from his wallet and said it could be mine if I would stay. It worked like a scent of flesh to a hungry wolf and I took the money and agreed on anonymity.  
He was happy and kept aside his cameras. He was out of his pants and came towards me with his erect dangling penis. Like I earlier said he was not handsome, perhaps in his late forties and he was a non-American black.  
I didn't even give him a blowjob but kept stoking his penis in tight grip of my hand and he was happy. He pushed my hand away when he was about to ejaculate. He went down on me after removing my clothes and it felt good to me. He gave a jerk to his head while his tongue stimulated my inside, it was good. Finally he started fucking me in the doggie. The poor guy was giving everything in his arsenal yet I was not satisfied. In mere seven minutes he was down and I was happy that I got the money probably for nothing.  
Since that day I don't trust Craigslist at all, it is not safe.

# REBECCA

# 28

# TAMPA

# HOUSEWIFE

### I was raped when I was young by someone whom I thought I was in love with. His friends also manhandled me. Since I had a big family, my parents didn't noticed me and neither my siblings nor uncles saw any change in me. But that incident left a deep impact on me and still I am not able to trust people.

### I think parents should keep their eyes open, taking any behavioural change in their child seriously.

### When I was growing up, I found myself still trapped in my past, often thinking a lot about that incident. May be it was to soothe my pain that I started to fantasize about it.

### Yes, that incident begun to sexually arouse me when I started fantasizing different endings that could have been possible that day. Sometimes I would even change the person, my offender with someone else but still the theme would remain the same- me getting raped.

### I met Richard when I was 23 and immediately fell in love with him. I still remember that day when he went on his knees and asked me to marry him. Richard is so funny that he can make even a corpse smile with his jokes.

### Richard does not know about that incident and I think I will never tell him that in this life. It is just that he is very emotional and I am afraid he will feel very bad for weeks, if I tell him that.

### We don't fantasize but indulge in role plays. When we were newly married, I told him, once, how I wanted to live a rape fantasy. He loved the idea and advised me to change into something good. He dressed himself in his black leather jacket and struck a toy gun between his trousers.

### I dressed myself in my old school uniform that I used to wear in high school. It didn't fit me well. I couldn't close the upper two buttons of my shirt even though I tried my best. Even my skirt was very short than what it once used to be. I took pictures of me in that and I was enthralled. I was looking slutty at its best, like those high school girls whom I used to try and imitate but always failed.

### Richard was also very happy when I showed him my new avatar. He praised me highly before we began our role play.

(From here Richard will be addressed as a stranger for better reading experience).

### I am returning back from school. The road is silent and empty. A man, suddenly, jumps out of the alley and hold a gun to my nape. He warns me against raising my voice or else he would pull the trigger. I am terror stricken and tears start rolling down my cheeks. He pushes me in the alley which is blind on the other side. He starts surveying my body with the touch of his gun's barrel. He slowly passes his barrel on my ass and loves it. He tries to push the barrel in my cunt but my pussy is still intact as I am a virgin. I scream in pain and he presses my mouth. I am begging him to let me depart or else my parents will worry but he has different plans. He pushes his hand in my skirt and starts tearing the garret. Then he tries pushing his middle finger in my vagina. I scream from the excruciating pain but even after efforts he has not yet penetrated my virgin pussy. I am sobbing, begging him to let me go away, reminding him how small I am to handle the pain but the heartless wretch laughs crookedly.

### He remark, with a sparkle in his eyes, "If this is what you cannot hold then how will you take my cock in yourself."  
He commands me, laying his gun on my temple, to show him my breast. I obey him, quivering, in fright. He is so pleased to see my, young breast, that he gives me a kiss. I try to cover my breast with my arm, ashamed, but he pushes my hand away with a jerk. He hold my boobs and then starts pressing them, watching me struggle to get his hands away from me. He asks me to kneel down and then he unzips his jeans taking out his cock. This is the first adult penis I have seen and it makes me red with shame. He asks me to play with his penis which is incomprehensible to a naïve like me. I try to squeeze his penis in my fist as if trying to strangulate it. Anyways he loves the touch of my small, soft hands. He asks me, then, to take it in my mouth. I refuse because I cannot stand the look of his pubic hairs. This angers him and he attacks me with the hilt of his gun. The fear has again taken hold of me and I slowly open my mouth, fearing for my life. I can only take in half his penis inside as much my mouth permits me. But once his cock is in my mouth, he pushes it all way up to my throat. I am coughing up badly but he doesn't heeds to it and keeps fucking my throat. He stops after ten minutes to remove my undies and I can see a white drop of semen settled on the tip of his penis. He asks me to stand akimbo and then he takes a look at my virgin clit. It is so tight that he again gives his crooked smile before kissing my lips. He pushes me down on the ground and holds my legs asunder. Shame makes me close my thighs together but he again shows me the hilt reminding me how bad he could get. He caveats in his deep voice "till you act like a good girl, nobody will get hurt."  
I come to terms to his usage of my body as he deems fit for his excitement. He pushes his long penis in my virgin vagina but it is impenetrable leaving me mad with pain. Even on his second attempt it appears to be insurmountable but my pain is so great that it appears that my eyes will bulge out. On his third attempt, he fills his lungs with air and then with full force pushes his penis tearing my labia inside me. The pain reaches new heights for me but it starts to subside as the miscreant keeps fucking. Finally the pain has dissolved in the blood that came out of my once, virgin pussy. He tells me while fucking me speedily "Relax baby, breathe and pleasure will be all yours".

# SHAUN

# 55

# NEW YORK

#  BUSINESSMAN

### I met with a serious accident when I was 42. My car was badly crushed and it was only a miracle that I am alive today. I had eighteen fractures in my body, my hip bone was dislocated and the pain was so severe that I was kept in the state of medically induced coma for a week. I still have a rod in my leg. It was a very harsh time for me and my family. I was on complete bed rest for nine months and only began walking after a year. I would like to thank my wife and my mother who were there to help me, without whose care I don't think I would have made out of that.

When I was on bed and was unable to perform anything myself, I gifted myself with a fantasy. (For you know Son, we all have some needs)

### A young, beautiful woman, about half my age, has been appointed by my wife as my hospice. My wife had taken my job until I was convalescing. So in the morning she goes to the office, leaving me in the hands of hospice. A bell hangs at the side of my bed that I can ring with my finger whenever I need any assistance. I am very weak and even cannot talk, so I just point to things I need a help with. Like when I have to urinate I point to the tray or my pyjamas and my hospice helps me then further.

### On one occasion I have pain in my hands and so am unable to pass urine holding my dick towards the tray. She sees it and come forward and holds my dick for me. The soft touch of her long nails makes it hard and erect, making it difficult for my urine to come out. She sways my dick when I am done to make the last drops to fall out. She smirks at my helplessness. This incident has ruffled her heart and had given rise to a fetish for helpless, recuperating patients.

### Now every day, when we are alone she walks around the house, naked, making fun of me when I am aroused. On one fine day she climbs on my face and sits until I have almost fainted.  
Surprisingly, I have begun to heal quickly with the desire to fuck her twat.

### As day pass, I have started sitting now, without anybody's help. She now comes and stands near my bed post and let me finger her pussy. Sometimes she runs away knowing that I couldn't walk still and tries to tease me spreading her pussy with her fingers and sucking her own tits. She does this until I have given up begging her to come to me and have masturbated to unleash the built tension.

### One day she ties my hands to the bedpost and put a sock in my mouth. Then she starts pushing anal beads in my ass which leaves me in tears. She starts stroking my penis wildly with her heels, curious to see how I will react. The feeling of pain and pleasure at the same time leaves me very high.

### Now more days pass and I have kept this from everybody that I have started walking. When the hospice comes near me on this day, I jump out of my bed and pin her hand to the wall. She is startled but gives a wonderful smile. I take out anal beads from my pocket, after tearing her white undies, and start pushing them in her ass. The beads are big even for her ass and it gave her thrills, pain and lots of pleasure. She nudges me, with beads still hanging from her ass; she turns and kisses me very passionately. Then I push her to the bed, tie her hands to the bedpost with my belt and put my sock in her mouth. I force the whole anal bead in her ass and she is in tears. She moves her ass side to side in pleasure and also tries shouting but my sock in her throats forbids her. I slowly pull out the beads and start fucking her ass with my erect cock. I can see that she is having a climax and white froth from her pussy has settled on my penis but I don't stop.

### Finally I cum in her ass, all my load and taking out my sock from her mouth ask her how she feels. She kisses me, sucking my lips as her answer is clear to me.

### This was the fantasy that kept me going even in such a turbulent time.

# STELLA BRACE (name changed)

# 25

# STATEN ISLAND

# MODEL AND GYMNAST

I have had fair share of men in my life and I had very good relations with many of them, at a single time, in my heydays. But as young and independent women, I was trying to figure out what the purpose of my life actually was and because of this I moved on, taking a break from those people who I felt had bound me in relations. I dream of having my own business five years down the line. May be then I would want to settle for a good man. Well only time will tell what becomes of me in five years. (Laughs)

### You know what, even though all men cannot satisfy a woman but all women can satisfy a man. I would like to tell; through my story how to completely satisfy your man and make them last longer in bed.

### I was at the super bowl this year supporting my team Carolina Panthers. As a child, I had once been to super bowl with my dad and brother. This year I wanted to relive the moment but to my surprise the rabid atmosphere which cheered me as a child, felt like nuisance this time.  
I was buying snacks when a man, who appeared very young than his actual age, came to me and said "You are a beautiful woman and you remind me of an old friend. Would you like to move to some other place where we can spend some time together"  
It took me a minute to fully understand what actually had happened. Few other people around overheard him and kept turning their heads again and again. If it were any other girl in place of mine, she would have refused the offer of giving company to this stranger stating she is not that kind of a girl. But I said yes and I myself am not that kind of a girl who says yes to every other guy. But this man had confidence which was evident and had attracted me towards him. I saw the eavesdropper chuckle when they saw us two moving out of the stands.  
We spent some time talking about the game and each other's life. I think he was meek in mentioning what he had actually wanted with me on fear of being wrongly perceived. I saw in his eyes how I had overpowered his thoughts to only revolve around me and only me. I kissed him on his lips to make him speak what he had on his mind. Sometimes men need kisses to make them comfortable in your company. He said then that he was thinking of taking me to a nearby lodging but only if I had no problem with this. I said yes yet again but I saw how his level of confidence dipped when mine began to rouse in his sight.

### We rented a small quarter for an hour. He was already sitting on the bed when I stepped out of the washroom. His eyes were sparkling with excitement.

### (A woman should always remember not to play her best cards out too early in sex. What I mean to say is, a man will cum too early if you offer his mind too much pleasure than it expects. There should be an element of surprise for the men. Like I know my boobs are way too great and guys love them that is why I don't show them my boobs until the end when I am satisfied by my man. And believe me; a man would never cum before he can cherish the pleasure of the best kind which he keeps looking for, every time he is in bed with women.)

### So firstly I helped him take off his clothes. Then I started massaging his thighs and saw his penis turn red, hard and erect. I sucked his penis feeling its warmth in my mouth. Men love to get licked on their penises, so I did exactly that. He moaned and then pressed my boob. "Oh I can tell with the feel, your boobs are perky" he said.  
And I smiled in an affirmative way.

### He tried to pull my shirt up but I pushed his head down and what a great cunnilingus he gave me. He again tried to see my boobs but I only showed him one, keeping the other for a surprise. This psychology always works to keep a man perform better. He took my legs and keeping them inclined to his chest he started doing me. From one corner of the bed to the other we rolled, making love and cuddled. He was absolutely wild in the bed. When I was completely satisfied by him, I threw away my jersey and showed him what he had so long waited for. While fucking my boobs, he came, squirting his white, hot liquid to my neck and chin.

### Women should remember- sex is like a journey of life, if a person receives comforts too early in life he will not go too far than that person who receives them after a long time. Women should remember the importance of element of surprise in sex.

### You must be wondering how the heck she knows so much. It is because my mom was an urologist and I have read many books from her shelf, implementing what I had learnt, in my own life and have seen great results.

[So after that informative story, I ask you with confidence to give me your phone number right here, right now]. (We both laughs)  
(For that I would need your phone or do you want me to take it out from your pocket, myself)

# TED GUERELLO

# 25

# FINANCE PLANNER

# NEW YORK

### When I was in school, I and my brother took maths tuitions from Mrs B, who was one of my mom's friends. She gave us tuition for an hour, every evening, barring the weekends. My brother went to another tutor when calculus was added to his syllabus and I had to go all by myself.

### Though, I was an average student but always did exceptionally well at maths.

### Mrs B lived with her senile mother, some ten minutes' walk from my home. But that twenty minutes' walk for going and returning felt very monotonous to me every evening.

### When I stepped in adolescence, few things started coming to my mind which had prior never touched me. I began to notice the crease of Mrs B's shirt, around her shoulder and arms. Then I would think- how big her breast would be. Whenever she bent at my copy, I found myself watching her cleavage with lust birthing a Satyr in me.

### I would not lie that Mrs B was the only woman, I was thinking about, when I masturbated for the first time. She became my favourite, whenever I masturbated I only thought about her. I also made my own fantasy for helping me masturbate better.

### But before I begin I must warn you, that this was only a creation of my own mind. In reality Mrs B was a woman of high moral and she would have never done an opprobrious act like this that I am about to tell you.

Mrs B is teaching and simultaneously cooking, like she normally did on many occasions. She has given me few questions to solve and keeps going to her kitchen space intermittently. (We used to study on the dining table that occupied the corner of her commodious kitchen).  
She returns soon to check my maths solutions. But as soon as she sat on her chair, the alarm of Oven goes off in the kitchen. She hurriedly leaves the chair to switch it off but in haste her shirt gets stuck in the cusp of the table and rips off.  
A silence has fallen suddenly and Mrs B is frozen in shame. I can see her firm, big, white breasts which look even more beautiful when her chest rise and fall as her breathing gets heavier. I rise to my feet as her face gets florid. Hiding her dignity with her torn shirt, she rushes in the other room to change.

### I go myself to switch off the Oven, unsure of how I feel. A curiosity, or I must accuse my naughty mind, makes me walk to the door, ajar, where Mrs B is changing her shirt. How beautiful she looks with her long hairs falling on her beautiful breast. I can watch her for ages like this. But luck does not favour me, my hand falls on the door throwing it open and Mrs B has caught me. She protests my presence outside her room at such an inappropriate time as that.  
'What were you watching' she asks me raising her voice and I know that I have been caught.  
I struggle to form words but in vain. Her look is making me more nervous. So, I walk to her and give her a loud kiss. She is shocked, she pushes me away but I pull her towards me and again kiss her juicy lips. She tries to push me yet third time, I kiss her and my hand settles on her breast. Now, she does not struggle to run away from me. Rather she, herself, loves the treatment I am offering her, she is all mine. I start kissing her neck and she closes her eyes, raising her head, up. I try to put my arms around her but her big breasts are cushioned to my chest tightly and my arms do not interlock behind her.  
She pulls my cock out of my trouser and is astonished to find it that big. 'You have really become a man' she exclaims.  
When she strokes my penis, the sound of cum filled in the veins of my penis can be heard clearly. I pray her not to stop for some time. She lies on her back at the bed such that her face is facing towards the ceiling. I push my cock inside her mouth, holding on her boobs tightly. Then I go stand between her legs and start licking her thighs before my tongue starts circling in her vagina. Her mouth is wide open with her constant moaning. Her 'Ah' gets louder and faster. Now, I push my warm penis in her pussy and with a start, in pleasure, she rise up to see how beautiful my cock looks entering her vagina.  
As I start pushing my cock inside her with more speed, her breast starts bouncing, wildly to and forth, clapping against her chest. Her breast seems to be out of control and has started hurting her. She holds them together in her hand, till I have not fucked her in that position. I try to push both her boobs together in my mouth but I cannot get one inside let alone the other. They are too big for my mouth to suck comfortably. In the end I cum in her mouth and she swallows it all.

# VIVIAN HARRIS

# 32

# IOWA

# COMPUTER CONTRACTOR

### I have visited many countries in the past. Spain is one of my most favourite countries that I keep visiting in every few years. The vast, sprawling countryside fields are sight to capture. Atmosphere is vibrant and tranquil, and the people are beautiful and amazingly friendly.  
After I give this leaf out of my life to you, you would want to visit Spain yourself very soon.

### I was looking for a place to get drunk. Spaniards love to drink at home or maybe in streets, so bars are not crowded generally. I entered a bar, it was noon time and I was welcomed by a buxom waitress in a knee length dress. I said wow in my mind as soon as I saw her. She spoke fluent English and had a very seductive- smile and looks. You could easily tell from the faces of other occupants in the bar that they were those people who generally drink themselves to sleep. They sat alone with their golden glasses settled in front of them.

### The moment I entered that Dutch-door of the bar I was given a special attention by the waitress and I absolutely loved it. I was not sure whether she was hitting on me or it was just her way of attending the people. But as she was beautiful and knew very well how to enhance her beauty through her actions in order to woo others, I was totally into her.

### She was walking behind me when she stepped on my shoe, which I don't know if it was accidental or done with a motive but when I stopped to pull my shoe back on, she collided in my back with her giant rugs feeling like cushions and it all began to make sense now. Though she apologized but I was already half way there, my penis was hard and I was only thinking of a way to start with her.  
She took my order, soon brought it to me and kept her dance attendance around me. There were two floors more, above and I knew they were empty. When her eyes were on me, I stepped and started walking upstairs. She asked behind me if I would need my drink and snack up too and I agreed. I knew that I had a moment then and as I reached up I found that it was indeed empty. But the problem was what if all this was only the cruel misinterpretation of my mind and that she was only a normal lady, not interested in me but her business. Anyways I decided, under the influence of my hard pressing lust and equally hard penis, to make an advance on her and that if she raises her cry, I was to quickly step out of the bar.

### Soon she came with her seductive smile and looks and kept my beer mug and cashews at the table. When she was putting down my bear mug, I raised her skirt up, awaiting the traces of her first sign of reaction to such act. Those five seconds appeared like an hour to me and I was already getting giddy when to my great composure she smiled and pressed my hand, massaging her hip. She asked, sitting on my lap to wait for two minutes till she checks down. She came back after closing the main door and bringing the keys of her money chest with her. I had already gulped the beer down my throat when she arrived. I pushed her on the sofa and she pulled out my cock, playfully smiling. Then a blowjob ensued, she sucked it hard. I pulled the ribbon from her hairs and she looked prettier. Drink had begun to hold on me so I was only able to pull her apron out and she herself unpinned her dress. Wow her rugs were massive and yet they were beautiful as they were round and firm. I pulled her undies down and pushed my penis in her brown pussy. I was feeling really lucky that I was fucking her, she was a beauty. I kept on hitting her at different pace and she kept uttering in Spanish slangs in between which was sexy to hear for me. I fucked her really very well and I know that she would not have forgotten it even to this day.  
I visited the same bar once more looking for her, years later, but they told me that she married a Portuguese man and resides with him in Denmark now. As beautiful as she was I wish she leads an equally charming life.

# BONUS FANTASY

(THIS IS AN EXCERPT FROM THE TELEPHONIC INTERVIEW OF MY COUSIN)

# DEBORRAH

# 18

# NEW YORK

# STUDENT

ME: Hi Debbie! How are you?  
Debbie: Good, what about you?  
Me: Good, well I called you regarding my book; you remember you said you had something to tell in it.  
Debbie: Yeah, the book. I have a fantasy to tell.  
Me: Okay I am listening, go on.  
Debbie: You know who my favourite actor is?  
Me: No I don't have any idea. Is it Channing Tatum or Taylor Lautner?  
Debbie: No my favourite actor is Brad Pitt.  
Me: Oh he is too big for you and beside that he is also married.  
Debbie: So what, he has got the looks and I have seen every movie of his.  
Me: okay nice, but now will you tell me any fantasy of yours, you are only wasting my time.  
Debbie: My fantasy revolves around Brad Pitt.  
Me: Oh wow! Do you know he is married and have a bunch of kids?  
Debbie: Yeah I know it. I fantasize about him making love to me and sometimes I fantasize that his wife tells him stuff he should do to me while she voyeurs.  
Me: (Laughs) All right. Can you go in detail?  
Debbie: No way you are my cousin.  
Me: But it would make a great story.  
Debbie: No means no, you are my cousin brother, asshole. (Hangs up)
THANKS FOR READING THIS BOOK. IF YOU WANT YOUR SEXUAL STORIES, REAL OR FANTASY, TO BE INCLUDED IN 'SEX IN EDEN-2' FOLLOW ME ON TWITTER @EdenEvans77 AND EMAIL ME YOUR STORIES AT edenevansz@gmail.com. THIRTY LUCKY PEOPLE WILL GET A CHANCE TO FEATURE THEIR STORIES IN THE UPCOMING BOOK.

# THANK YOU

# UPCOMING PROJECTS

# MISTER LITTLES

# EXPECTED DATE-14 SEPTEMBER 2016

# GENRE-VAMPIRE FICTION, ROMANCE, FANTASY, YOUNG ADULT

### MISTER LITTLES IS DIFFERENT FROM THE OTHER VAMPIRE FICTIONS IN MANY WAYS. INSTEAD OF A VAMPIRE, IT WOULD BE A HUMAN THAT WOULD HOLD POWER. AT THIS MOMENT ONLY THIS CAN BE REVEALED.  
THE BOOK WILL REVOLVE AROUND A SEVENTEEN YEAR OLD GIRL. THE WRITING WILL BE IN THIRD PERSON.

# IF OUR LOVE IS REAL

# EXPECTED DATE-14 DECEMBER 2016

# GENRE-ROMANCE, THRILLER, CRIME AND SUSPENSE

### THE BOOK BEGINS IN RUSSIA WHERE A MAN MAKES A MISTAKE BECAUSE OF WHICH SOMEONE ELSE'S LIFE IS AFFECTED. THOUGH HE IS PENITENT BUT WHAT GOOD CAN HE DO NOW AFTER THINGS HAVE GONE WRONG AND TRUSTS HAVE BEEN BROKEN.  
THIS BOOK IS VERY CLOSE TO MY HEART BECAUSE I HAVE MENTIONED SOME OF MY OWN LIFE EXPERIENCES IN IT.

# VATICAN SECRETS (probably)

# EXPECTED DATE-14 MARCH 2017

# GENRE- CONSPIRACY, THRILLER, RELIGION

# MOTIVATION- ILLUMINATI, CROP CIRCLES, DAN BROWN

### A SCANDAL HAS SHAKEN THE WHOLE WORLD. DETECTIVE HARRIS IS SHOT AND KILLED BY A GROUP OF UNKNOWN PEOPLE. BUT BEFORE HIS DEATH HE MANAGES TO SEND AN EMAIL TO CIA WHICH CONTAINS SECRETS OF THE MISSING ARCHEALOGIST AND PROOF OF A RARE VATICAN SCANDAL. WHAT IS VATICAN AFTER AND WHAT IS IN ITS LIBRARY THAT WOULD CAUSE DOOMSDAY.

# SEX IN EDEN- PART 2

# EXPECTED DATE-14 JUNE 2017

#  GENRE-EROTICA

### THE SECOND BOOK OF THE SERIES WILL BE STEAMIER, BOLDER AND THICKER. IT WILL CONTAIN FIFTY STORIES IN ALL, HALF OF WHICH WILL BE REAL SEX INCIDENTS AND OTHER BEING SEXUAL FANTASY.  
THIRTY LUCKY PEOPLE WILL GET A CHANCE TO FEATURE THEIR STORIES IN THIS BOOK. FOR FURTHER DETAILS FOLLOW ME ON TWITTER @EdenEvans77.

# THREE SLEUTHS OF BROOKLYN-THE BEGINNING

# EXPECTED DATE-14 SEPTEMBER 2017

#  GENRE-DETECTIVE

#  INSPIRATION-E.A POE, ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE

### I HAVE ALWAYS ADMIRED THE WORKS OF E.A. POE. AND IF YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT GREAT WHODUNIT'S THERE IS NOWAY YOU WILL MISS ON SHERLOCK HOLMES. THIS IS ONLY BECAUSE OF MY GREAT LOVE FOR SHERLOCK HOLMES THAT I WANTED TO CREATE AN ALL AMERICAN COUNTERPART. THIS STORY WILL SET IN LATE NINTEENTH CENTURY IN THE CITY OF BROOKLYN. THIS FIRST BOOK WILL ONLY FEATURE ONE OF THE CENTRAL CHARACTERS. THE STORY REVOLVES AROUND A DETECTIVE WHO IS ON THE LOOKOUT FOR SOMEONE WHO CAN PERFORM A PERFECT MURDER FOR HIM. WHY WOULD A PERSONNEL OF LAW NEED TO KILL SOMEBODY AND WILL HE SUCCEED? ALL QUESTIONS WILL BE ANSWERED IN THIS BOOK.

THANK YOU FOR READING. TO SUPPORT ME SIMPLY FOLLOW ME ON TWITTER @EdenEvans77.

### I KNOW YOU ARE A BUSY PERSON BUT IF YOU OFFER FIVE MINUTES FROM YOUR PRECIOUS TIME, IT WOULD BE A GREAT HELP FOR A NEW WRITER LIKE ME. PLEASE REVIEW MY BOOK ON AMAZON.

### FOLLOW ON TWITTER-@EdenEvans77

EMAIL-edenevansz@gmail.com
