Amber M. Kestner

Shadow's Of Despair

Fate Of Her Path Series

## Volume 2

This book is a work of fiction. Names,

characters, places, business establishments and

events are the product of the authors'

imagination or are used facetiously. Any

resemblance to actual persons, living or dead is

entirely coincidental.

No part of this book may be reproduced,

scanned, or distributed in any printed or

electronic form without permission. Purchase

only authorized editions.

Shadow's Of Despair

FATE OF HER PATH SERIES Volume 2

Copyright ©2017 Amber M. Kestner

About The Book

Scarlett's fate is in the prediction of past and future with no telling what could happen. Her mother Andrea had raised Scarlett on her own with no help what so ever. Andrea did know her daughter was lesbian just never told her because she wanted Scarlett to on her own.

Scarlett made a best friend name Angel Knight while they were ninth graders. Unfortunately fate has a new prevail that could leave Angel dying in the arms of Scarlett. Could Scarlett fall in love with the true Annabel or will it come crashing down with Angel in the fast lane of life?

What is the fate of Scarlett in her predictions? Will love become to much of a factor? Can Scarlett save her future along with Angel's?

Fate is in the hands of this world with this lesbian romance.

## Chapter 1

It was a dark night in Nineteen Eighty-Eight, Derek went out with his buddies to have a couple drinks of beer before going into work the next day but unfortunately the weather turned out very bad as they left the bar and into a car, the guys drove into the wet rain and snow as the roads iced over as Mikhail went to make a slight turn the car slid the wrong way and did multiple flips into a wooded area, no one wore seat belts and no one survived that ungrateful night.

Andrea is waiting on Derek to arrive home since she's eight months pregnant and expecting their wonderful baby girl Scarlett Myra Thomas. Andrea couldn't sleep it had disturbed her completely not knowing what happened to her husband or where he could be. They were so excited for their little angel to arrive at any point especially since this will be their only baby.

She had settled into getting her coffee as a knock at the door startled her as Andrea dropped her coffee cup on the floor that's when she try to rush to the door as it rang this time and she spoke,

"I am coming, sorry I am very pregnant and have trouble getting around."

A voice strong came through the door replying,

"Take a seat in your living room ma'am, we need to come inside it is the police and no you're not in trouble."

Andrea took a seat on the recliner adjusting herself responding,

"Come on in, the door is open."

Both men came in with bows of their heads than looked at Andrea with glistened tears in their eyes it was Derek's close friend's Brian Burgundy and Andrew Jones they cleared their throats saying,

"Andrea, we've had to already tell other families of our buddies Mikhail Thwart, Timothy Hertz and Matthew Drakes, this isn't easy but Derek has passed on they all died in a severe car crash last night that the car flipped multiple times in the wet rain, snow and ice it got very bad to say the least. We aren't sure if they were drunk or anything but we do know that the car is destroyed and none of them wore seat belts. We are very sorry Andrea if you need help with your baby let us know and we'll do it in our best power to help."

Andrea nodded with tears dripping down her face as she replied between sobs,

"Thank you gentlemen."

They nodded leaving her in complete silence on trying to raise a baby by herself it wouldn't be easy that she knew but her heart will always miss Derek they had everything in the world to successfully raise Scarlett their beautiful baby that will be arriving any day. Andrea whispered to her belly that Scarlett kept kicking,

"Baby, me and you will make it some how without your daddy, we will make it through some how and some way. I can't believe I am raising you alone in this crazy world."

Andrea got up from the chair and made her way into the kitchen as her midwife Angelique Yates came inside saying,

"Hey Andrea, where is Derek and how is the baby?"

Andrea cleared her throat replying,

"Hey Angelique, my dear husband passed away last night in a car wreck and the baby is fine just kicking like crazy, I haven't had much sleep with her constantly moving."

Angelique shook her head with a heavy sigh responding,

"If you weren't so close to your due date I would leave you but that isn't an option at this moment since Derek isn't around."

Andrea nodded seeing that Angelique was a beauty woman in her eyes always have been with beautiful black hair that had waves, stood at five feet four inches and about one hundred ten pounds, she had deep brown eyes with a luscious chocolate skin to melt against. Andrea lusted after Angelique even behind Derek's back but she couldn't help but try to be around her every chance she had. They had grown into a wonderful friendship, you could say they are best friends. Andrea never told her husband that she's bisexual and hadn't even told Angelique either because in this day in age it's against the law. Though if her daughter had the option she could fall in love with a woman too, heaven forbid the laws let her of course.

Angelique started giggling saying,

"Andrea, you're giving me that look again like you are dying to do something to me?"

Andrea blushed replying,

"Sorry just running thoughts through my head of what to do about Scarlett because it's going to be an interesting process with trying to bury her father too."

Angelique walked up to Andrea than grabbed hold of her shoulder's responding,

"It'll be okay, I am sure you will find another man to help you raise such a pride and joy."

Andrea shook her head not looking at Angelique replying,

"I have hidden something from both you and Derek, I should have told you both from the beginning but been to shy."

Angelique's went from smiling to a frown responding,

"What is it Andrea? If it's about me and him spending too much time together I am very sorry but he's just too handsome to resist and I...I..."

Andrea looked at her with a death stare replying,

"Did you sleep with Derek?"

Angelique shook her head no responding,

"No, I have tried to get him to sleep with me but he was so faithful to you that he refused and that is the truth but I did fall in love with him just like you did when you guys were in High School."

Andrea sighed a relief at that her husband had always been faithful to her but she hadn't been honest to either of them either on being bisexual even since they might have gotten together she would have had three ways. She looked at Angelique more intently than she realized as they got closer to each other with barely touching one another as Andrea spoke,

"I am...I..."

Angelique smiled as she backed away replying,

"You are lesbian, aren't you? Is that way you have been staring at me the way you have."

Andrea twisted her fingers in her knots responding,

"I am....I am b..b...bisexual."

Angelique shook her head then walked back to cleaning the coffee mess from earlier replying,

"I am straight Andrea, you couldn't have gotten with me any how, no matter how attractive I am, it wouldn't have happened."

Andrea stayed put in the living room without another word as she wished her midwife wouldn't have said that now her heart is shredded completely as she finally spoke,

"GET OUT, JUST GET OUT!!"

Angelique looked startled from what she was doing as she replied,

"Andrea, I can't leave you, you're about to burst any day now."

Andrea gave her a evil look responding,

"I SAID GET OUT NOW OR I WILL CALL THE LAW!"

Angelique nodded as she left the house silently and Andrea dropped down to tears a second time within twenty-four hours.

## Chapter 2

Scarlett is now in ninth grade first year of High School and the thrills of meeting new people. Scarlett couldn't wait to see what classes she's having this year it is a dream to follow in her father's footsteps and become a police officer if he was alive he would be so proud of her. Her mother Andrea explained what happened to her father when she was about eight years old, he died in a horrible car accident and her mom just lived with a broken heart.

Scarlett kept a hidden secret from everyone she knew that she's lesbian, she's been fondly attractive to girls since about sixth grade when she tried to kiss another shy girl named Mary Ellen Norman she had beautiful red hair, freckles that made her so lovely, green eyes, and a complete bookworm. Mary had approached her on a math subject she was stuck on and as they were studying in the library Scarlett tried to make a move since they were in the back of the class and behind one of the bookshelves. Scarlett got close to her lips as Mary whispered between breaths,

"Scarlett, please don't. I am in love with Carrie, she's been my crush since seventh grade."

Scarlett's eyes open as she looked at Mary just sighing heavily replying,

"You love Carrie but she won't give you the time of day like I will. Alright, Mary go on what is the next equation?"

They studied for several hours and the only thing she received was raging hormones and a hug. After that she really never really spent time with any girl due to all the talk that she just wanted Mary Ellen for sex and Carrie Johnson, she is everything a girl could want from her gorgeous blonde hair, blue eyes, perfectly placed make-up, stands at five feet seven inches, ninety-eight pounds and wears perfect red heels with her cheerleader uniform even all the guys fall for her.

Carrie came up to Scarlett that afternoon with Mary on her shoulder saying,

"Don't you dare try to steal my girl from me again, you skanky bitch."

Scarlett rolled her eyes and walking away without a fight to start like everyone wanted. Now that they are in freshmen year of High School, she couldn't wait to meet the love of her life even if it meant being hid behind close doors. As the new school year began it is the same routine go to homeroom, get your schedules and then head off to your first class for the day.

Scarlett walked into her English class that afternoon to see another blonde hair chick that wasn't Cassie but dressed in relaxed clothing and wore tennis shoes. She is a beautiful young lady, Scarlett rushed to the back of the class to take her seat when the bell rang. Mrs. Kline had cleared her throat saying,

"Class, welcome to a new year in High School. I am sure many of you recognize each other from Middle School, so now let's begin roll call before we go over rules and such for my class."

The class stayed silent even as Scarlett kept looking at the girl across the room who was so shy to even speak of anything. Mrs. Kline called out names by last name alphabetically which most teachers did every year in Rose County. As soon as Mrs. Kline called out Knight, I looked around to see the young girl speak up saying,

"Here."

Than Mrs. Kline walked over to the young girl replying,

"I see that you are new in this school from what my paper says you're name is Angel? Is your mother Angelique Knight that last name sounds so familiar."

Angel shook her head responding,

"No, I never knew a Angelique but if you are wondering my mom did go here, she was a cheerleader and went by Clarissa Kingston before marrying my father the football star Frank Knight but I am not sure where my father is at all or even if he's alive, he left when I was two."

Mrs. Kline nodded her head replying,

"Very well, Angel. Welcome to our school and hope everyone can make you feel comfortable here. I am sure Scarlett Thomas wouldn't mind showing you around, am I right Miss. Thomas?"

Scarlett smiled responding,

"Oh yes, I will be delighted to show Angel around Mrs. Kline."

Mrs. Kline nodded then went about introductions on the homework assignments and class rules for the year. Scarlett on the other hand couldn't wait to get a chance to talk to Angel and get to know her. Classes went on even as Scarlett introduced Angel to her new teacher's and show her around the school, it seemed like a doomed day when Angel spoke because the girl is over panic about herself right in the LGBT Community and Scarlett would just roll her eyes.

Though right as they took a right hand corner Scarlett ran right into Cassie, Cassie looked between Scarlett and Angel saying,

"Well, what a nice surprise to run into nerds such as yourselves....I swear you two will never cease to amaze me. So, Scarlett what's with the new girl? What's her name?"

Scarlett rolled her eyes again knowing this wasn't going to end well as she replied,

"I am showing her around and her name is Angel Knight."

Cassie squealed like a little girl looking at Angel with dreamy eyes saying,

"The Angel Knight, Oh My God, you're mom Clarissa is very popular in the cheerleading squad and you're dad, Oh My God, he was a hunk back then you're mom is so lucky to have him. You have to join our squad, you will get any guy or girl you want."

Angel laughed replying,

"It's Cassie, isn't it? My,my,my what can I say? Oh that's right NO! I will not be a cheerleader, all because my parent's were popular doesn't mean I want to be. Plus, my parent's didn't stay married long at least as far as I know though I could be wrong. I am hanging out with Scarlett and that's that."

Cassie shoved Angel to the ground then kneels down getting close to her face responding,

"You have a week to decide between us or her...see you around Knight."

Angel looked at Scarlett for help but that didn't come because Scarlett just stood and watch like the rest of the school.

## Chapter 3

Scarlett watched Angel get plummeted by Carrie. As she watched Angel struggle her mind went into the future as it showed what could become of Angel.

Angel, you are MY ANNABEL not ANGEL. You will be my wife whether you like it or not. I will make sure you're lovely fiancee Jana and your children Jonathan and Avery suffer from taking you from me. I am your everything not her.

Scarlett shook her head over and over then shoved Carrie away from Angel as they both rushed off as Angel turned Scarlett around saying,

"You are so lucky she didn't hurt me."

Scarlett looked down at her feet replying,

"I saw our future even after meeting today. I don't know who Annabel is but I am not risking you going to be put in danger by me."

Angel shook her head and kept on walking towards whatever class she needed next since Scarlett done forgot. Scarlett rushed toward Angel grabbing her by the elbow turning her around saying,

"Angel, tell me what are we to do?"

Angel released her elbow from Scarlett replying,

"What do you mean we?"

Scarlett sighed rubbing her temples responding,

"I am not sure, I need help alright."

Angel looked at Scarlett quizzically replying,

"Help with what? Scarlett, if this is about that stupid prediction, I can't say much because I have no idea what you would do to me future matters even if we did manage to date and what not."

Scarlett tried again replaying what she saw responding,

"Angel, my prediction was that I forced you to be my wife under a name Annabel and I made everyone you love suffer because of something that wasn't in detail but I don't want to find out what I did because it may end horribly."

Angel hugged Scarlett replying,

"I am sure it'll be okay whatever the prediction was, I mean it can't be that bad, you are really nice to help to class in which we are already tardy for but don't freak to much all will be okay."

Scarlett nodded with hugging Angel back. They walked to their next class in silence and the rest of the day went without another premonition of a future Scarlett didn't want to see again. Scarlett went on home that afternoon without a friend to speak with about everything once again. She knew her mom is going to wonder about her that keeps people away especially Carrie who had every parent loving her.

Scarlett got home dropping her backpack by the door as her mom hollered,

"Scarlett, baby is that you? If it is come into the kitchen and help me."

Scarlett had tons of homework to do, helping her mom came first and foremost. Scarlett hollered back,

"Coming mom."

Scarlett walked to the kitchen seeing that her mom was making a big dinner for some occasion again. Scarlett came up behind her mom saying,

"So who are we cooking for this time?"

Andrea smiled at her precious girl replying,

"My...my...new friend is coming over."

Scarlett raised a brow at her mom responding,

"A friend, really? Are you going to be dating anyone eventually, dad would have appreciated it."

Andrea shook her head replying,

"After many years of your dad's passing, I can't seem to date anyone honey."

Scarlett shook her head no responding,

"Have you ever tried dating the same sex to see what happens?"

Andrea patted Scarlett's cheek replying,

"I did, my midwife Angelique Yates my goodness she was a beautiful black woman."

Scarlett smiled seeing her mom daydream over a woman that is one thing Scarlett wish she could tell her mom that they both like girls but that would probably ruin her mom's life. Andrea looked at Scarlett with a smile saying,

"Let's finish this lasagna up and the salad. I have started with sauce vinaigrette."

Scarlett nodded as they both worked quickly trying to get everything ready for her mom's "friend" it made Scarlett giggle at the thought of her mom just having friends and not dating anyone. Andrea and her talked about school as Scarlett brought up her prediction of Angel the new girl in school and her mom explained it could just be over analyzed or a simple future reference because no one can predict their own future.

Scarlett got dressed into a black dress with chains, fishnet stockings with black socks that hide in the boots and black hair band that went with her short black hair and then placed black eye shadow and red lipstick as she looked herself over in the mirror she smiled at the sight of her new look that her mom let her own. As she rushed downstairs to meet her mom's friend at the door, sure enough in no time as she reached behind her mother who is dressed in a red dress with red heels and perfect red lipstick even Scarlett couldn't imagine why anyone wouldn't want to date her mom.

Her mom opened the door as a woman about thirty-five or thirty-six with a tomboy cut with brown hair, looked like she had deep brown eyes, she wore a white muscle shirt with a blue over shirt and blue jeans with a ball cap backwards. Scarlett couldn't help but stare the woman looked pure lesbian not straight or even the type that dates guys. Scarlett looked at her mom and the woman they were flirting as they stood at the door.

Andrea brought the woman in as her mom introduced us turned out her name is Ronnie "Shane" White or nickname Romeo. Andrea cleared her throat saying,

"We have dinner ready Shane, my daughter just got home and helped me finish."

Shane nodded replying,

"Thank you for having me over Mrs. Thomas this is a lovely home."

Andrea blushed as Scarlett felt a little lost between the two as they flirted and carried on. Scarlett couldn't leave her mom on her "date" with a "friend" it was already awkward enough. Scarlett decided to leave her mom alone after it was well past eight o'clock since she had homework to do and head to bed. Though if she knew her mom them two would possibly sleep together and hook up in the week, her mom deserved someone that is for sure even if it made her uncomfortable to see her mom flirt with women.

## Chapter 4

Scarlett arrived at school that following morning as Angel left a note on her locker saying to go to her locker as soon as she got her books. Scarlett snatched the note, spinning her lock for the code and getting into her locker grabbing all her books for the day as she hurried to meet Angel before late bell rang. Scarlett arrived at Angel's locker with Cassie glaring at her, she turned around and ignored the glare. Angel looked beautiful even though Scarlett looked the same with the Gothic outfit from last night when her mom had her date.

Angel had a pony tail with her bangs lose, a bright blue blouse, tight blue jeans with a black buckle and black high heels. Angel knew how to look good without trying too hard, Angel stopped in front of her saying,

"Scarlett, sorry I am late, my siblings can be so slow."

Scarlett laughed responding,

"It's alright, so what is going on?"

Angel shoved Scarlett over as she got into her locker replying,

"We have another new classmate later this week. A girl from Texas her name is Annabel Hudson, we are going to be showing her around and everything. I do know why you had that prediction of a Annabel this girl is supposed to be your future even though we date or whatever, you are her true love."

Scarlett sighed as she saw another prediction coming at that moment.

You spoke with her? You did everything I told you NOT to do. Are you asking to be killed? Jana Johnson is not allowed to be around you and neither are those nasty children. So as punishment you are going to be in a place you'll hate my dear wife.

Scarlett looked at Angel trying so hard not to back away but she wanted to run away from the nightmare that kept coming over Angel, Angel didn't deserve to be treated with abuse. Angel looked at Scarlett liked something was serious wrong as she spoke,

"Scarlett, what did you see?"

Scarlett tried not to cry as she replied,

"Punishing you for speaking to some woman named Jana again. I can't hurt you or let you suffer anything from me."

Angel grabbed Scarlett by the shoulder's shaking her responding,

"Scarlett, you will be okay...these premonitions are just that. I can't imagine why you would hurt me over I am assuming this new girl coming to our school and naming me Annabel."

Scarlett looked at Angel in the eyes with still fighting tears replying,

"You have no idea if that is the girl that I end up with or at least the one I name you after."

Angel put her arms to herself with a chuckle responding,

"She will be the only Annabel in this school, you can't tell me that you wouldn't like another girl, I know damn well you aren't straight."

Scarlett knew that is right, she isn't straight but how can she control the future without trying to kill Angel. Scarlett sighed replying,

"Angel, so when is this new girl arriving?"

Angel turned back around grabbing her books responding,

"I heard Friday but that can change since it is a long drive from Texas to Michigan."

Scarlett tapped her chin replying,

"Where did you live before coming here?"

Angel smiled into her locker responding,

"AN hour from here actually, it wasn't bad going to a prep school but I needed more of a education so my mom and grandmother decided to come out here."

Scarlett shrugged against the locker she's leaning against replying,

"And you have no idea where your dad is?"

Angel shook her head responding,

"Nope, what about you and your family?"

Scarlett looked down at her feet replying,

"My dad died when him and his buddies from the law enforcement passed away, so it's just me and my mom."

Angel nodded in understanding as she responded,

"I am sorry about your dad, I am sure he was as famous as my dad was."

Scarlett nodded in agreement finding herself lost for words as she looked up at Angel seeing that they had met yesterday though now seem like best friends. Scarlett pulled out her phone saying,

"Angel, can we switch numbers? I would like to become a friend."

Angel looked down at Scarlett with her phone smiling replying,

"Sure, you are a good person."

They switched numbers without a word with returning each other's phone's. Scarlett tried so hard not to open herself to much to Angel knowing that they wouldn't be dating right away even when Annabel comes to the school. Scarlett and Angel looked around the hall as they both laughed, Scarlett spoke,

"Well looks like we are extremely tardy, so do we go to class or skip this school day?"

Angel grabbed Scarlett by the arms as they both ran out the front doors and Angel replied,

"Let's go to the mall,park or something? I mean we are freshman's that get perfect grades, we can miss a day. I am up for a trip to anywhere."

Scarlett laughed looking at the surroundings responding.

"We can go to my place, my mom is probably working by now and won't be home until dinner time."

Angel shrugged replying,

"We need our book bags or else our mom's will get suspicious of us not being in school and without our luggage."

Scarlett smiled as they both rushed back to their lockers grabbing everything as they rushed back to the front doors with giggles. Scarlett grabbed Angel as they ran in the direction of her house as soon as they reached the front door Angel turned Scarlett around saying,

"What are we going to be doing here?"

Scarlett smiled replying,

"Watch movies and pig out on junk food."

Angel smirked responding,

"If you insist."

Scarlett shook her head turning around unlocking the front door as she hollered to make sure her mom wasn't home early, sure enough the house was empty not a soul, so she let Angel in. Angel looked around with a smile saying,

"You're father must've made a ton of money to be able to live near a school and everything else, wow!"

Scarlett shrugged replying,

"My dad made sure we had enough to live on even with mom working again it has changed everything. Now what movie do you want to see?"

Angel turned around with a grin responding,

"Kiss Me, it is a great lesbian film."

Scarlett cringed at the thought of watching this but she would take what Angel offered in movie choices. Scarlett and Angel watched lesbian movies all afternoon until they crashed out on the couch as a voice cleared that woke them up,

"Girls, what are you doing home?"

Scarlett rubbed her eyes open looking at the clock realizing it was dinner time and Angel still had to get home so Scarlett replied,

"Mom, school let out hours ago, you're hours are way off since last night. This is Angel Knight by the way, she's new to my school."

Andrea looked down at her watch sighing replying,

"Did you two crash after homework and movie?"

Scarlett nodded responding,

"Yes, sorry...school exhausted our brains so we watched a few movies."

Andrea dropped her purse on the chair and sat next to it as the girls sat up on the couch, Andrea sighed replying,

"Alright girls, Angel are you staying over?"

Scarlett and Angel passed glances as Angel smiled responded,

"I was planning on heading home but I can stay here tonight, I am sure my mom wouldn't mind. Let me go call her real quick for the okay?"

Andrea nodded then looked at Scarlett with concern saying,

"This room doesn't smell like sex or anything, so you ditched school to watch lesbian movies all day?"

Scarlett looked to see if Angel was still on the phone then replied,

"I am sorry it won't happen again and no, we are just friends mom."

Andrea got up from her seat and sat next to Scarlett responding,

"Really? Well shows what I thought I knew the way you two were cuddling against one another. By the way I already know you're lesbian since you never bring guys home."

Scarlett looked at her mom replying,

"You knew! I...I was going to come out to you my senior year mom honest."

Andrea hugged her daughter responding,

"It's okay Scarlett relax, I am bisexual."

Scarlett went wide eye replying,

"Really? Wow, awesome!"

Andrea laughed as Angel came back in the living room with thumbs up.

## Chapter 5

Late evening Scarlett rolled over from her bed looking down at Angel with a smile whispering,

"Are you awake?"

Angel stirred looking up at Scarlett whispering back,

"Yes."

Scarlett giggled with a little louder reply,

"Good, come here."

Angel crawled out of her sleeping bag, walking over to Scarlett silently not to wake up Andrea as Scarlett patted the bed with a smile as Angel laid beside her responding,

"What do you need beautiful?"

Scarlett winked replying,

"Since you're obviously first girl in my room, I figured we could explore a bit, I know I was against it before but now I can't resist and you are my best friend."

Angel blushed with a smile responding,

"Being your best friend has nothing to do with it, you are attracted to me in some way to want me to explore with you."

Scarlett held Angel by the waist replying,

"I have been attractive to you since we met a couple days ago."

Angel placed her hands across Scarlett's arm making circles up and down her arm responding,

"I knew you were spunky but remember you're true love is coming in this week so we can't get to serious."

Scarlett sighed laying back on her pillow as Angel looked at her saying,

"You can't expect us to date after your prediction's that is like walking in fire."

Scarlett sighed again replying,

"I want to date you, I truly want you as a girlfriend but knowing what I saw it scares me. I know Annabel's coming though I am not sure if I can take that chance."

Angel shook her head responding,

"You will have no choice since you were the reason our future's changes from the start, you took me from the woman I was engaged with and my children how can you think this will work, we'd be replying with history all over again. I am sorry Scarlett but I'm not taking my chance, I will make love to you on my own standards before Annabel comes within the next week or two just to give you an idea but I want my future corrected not a disaster to be the Annabel you dream of."

Scarlett understood why Angel freaked out though it ate at her too knowing that if she did anything with Angel it'd screw her over. Scarlett rolled back over seeing that Angel fell to sleep silently as she cuddled next to her smelling Angel's hair in a wonderful scent of Rose and her skin smelt like relaxing Lavender that made Scarlett relax a little more than usual.

That following morning with the alarm screeching Scarlett reached a crossed shutting it off and seeing that Angel is still in a deep sleep at that moment she wanted to kiss her they didn't do anything and Scarlett kept her hands to herself including with a simple cuddle. Scarlett sighed heavily than lean down kissing Angel as she felt Angel moan in the kiss as their lips moved in sync that even Scarlett could feel her hormones raging as she held back from going down Angel's nightgown. Angel placed Scarlett's hand on her thigh as they kissed more deeply and Scarlett could feel her hand reaching for Angel's ass. Scarlett finally released the kiss before it got to far saying,

"I know I wanted to last night but now I can't even though I am raging inside for release."

Angel touched her lips then smiled at Scarlett replying,

"I wasn't implying we go that far but thank you for the morning wake up. We do need to get ready for school that's for sure."

Scarlett nodded as she climbed off of Angel and headed over to her dresser to examine what she is going to wear. Angel climbed out of bed saying,

"I am getting into the bathroom first since I have a outfit ready to go, I will be out quick for your turn."

Scarlett smiled letting Angel get in as Scarlett couldn't decide what to wear besides all her black outfits that she adored. Angel came out of the bathroom twenty minutes later saying,

"Scarlett, you still haven't decided what to wear?"

Scarlett shook her head no replying,

"I don't know what to wear for today?"

Angel came over looking in the closet responding,

"All black, no other color, well aren't you completely goth."

Scarlett lightly punched her on the shoulder replying,

"I know I am that doesn't help me Angel."

Angel smiled grabbing a Black Sabbath t-shirt, black baggy jeans, black belt with black panties and matching bra even though they were both lace which made Angel tingle inside a bit than looked at Scarlett responding,

"This will work as long as you wear black socks and boots than you will be going into school just like yourself still."

Scarlett smiled as she grabbed her clothes rushing to the bathroom to change with a quick hot shower as she heard the doorbell rang, she assumed it was probably Shane again attempting to get her mom for work. After forty minutes Angel knocked on the bathroom door saying that some woman that looked lesbian came and got her mom for work. Scarlett rolled her eyes as she finished cleaning up than rushing to get her clothes on in the bathroom knowing Angel is most likely in the bedroom waiting.

Scarlett came out of the bathroom smiling at Angel saying,

"I guess you were waiting for me."

Angel grinned replying,

"Of course, now we better get to school before we run late for first class."

Scarlett rushed putting on her socks and boots than grabbed Angel by the hand as they grabbed their backpacks near the front door and then ran all the way to school. They both reached the front lawn of their school huffing and puffing as their principal ushered them inside with a smile saying,

"You ladies have gotten lucky to be here before the warning bell rang."

Angel smiled with a polite nod replying,

"Sorry, this one took forever on deciding a outfit for today it won't happen again."

The principal nodded and headed to his office without another word as both girls rushed to their first class.

## Chapter 6

Annabel Hudson had definitely arrived late at her new school. Looking around she could see no one had even bother to notice her, she needed a way to the principal's office since she told her parent's that she could find her way now that she's old enough to do everything on her own. Then she saw two girls one goth and another girly girl in bright colors it made her wonder if they could guide her in the right direction, so she approached them saying,

"Hello girls, I am Annabel Hudson, I am needing help to finding the principal's office?"

Goth girl dropped her jaw and stuttered her words as girly girl replied,

"Don't mind Scarlett she's harmless and I am Angel, we can help you get to the principal's office."

Annabel smiled looking at Scarlett than back at Angel responding,

"Thank you both."

Angel walked next to Annabel as Scarlett followed behind like a lost puppy it made Angel smile seeing Scarlett falling for the true Annabel instead of her. Scarlett finally warmed up saying,

"Annabel, are you lesbian,bisexual or straight because you are fucking hot."

Annabel laughed replying,

"Scarlett, I am lesbian and thank you."

Scarlett sighed with relief even though she's thankful her mom accepts her lifestyle. Scarlett took a deep breath responding,

"You're welcome Annabel, I am lesbian too and Angel is bisexual but anyways do um...have...a...girlfriend?"

Annabel stopped in her tracks looking at Scarlett clearing her throat replying,

"Scarlett, first off we don't know each other and second even if I told you I had a girlfriend back in Texas you'd seem like the jealous type."

Scarlett looked down at her feet feeling ashamed of even asking that when Annabel just arrived. Scarlett gone into darkness once again premonition's sparked one after another that day:

My love, I found us both a job. You are going to be a waitress at a local restaurant and since Jerry fired me finally I got me a job a few blocks down from the restaurant you are working at, I am working at a local bookstore.

Annabel didn't seem so thrilled that Scarlett kept getting her dream jobs as she worked these 9am to 5pm shifts most the time depending on the job at Abbots she had to be up by 5am to be to work by 6am to end up home around 11pm it was a full day shift working that forklift. Annabel sighed replying,

"Babe, how come you always end up with my dream jobs like the business you had and now a bookstore? Books are my thing not yours, you are too much wrapped up in wearing Corsets for fashion and prancing around like a child."

Scarlett got off of Annabel smacking her right across the face responding,

"Listen here you little skank this is my choice of how I live my life and if I want to be a business woman I will or if I want to be a book store seller I will. You can't control your jobs that I apply because you have no low life experience like me, so keep your mouth shut or you'll end up in a ditch for me to kill you. Alright, love you babe."

Annabel swore her wife was on drugs she'd never actually kill her, she had trapped her in a cage and has been abusing her since gosh knows when anymore though Scarlett is a loose cannon anymore. Annabel smiled sweetly after being smacked in the face replying,

"Alright my love, you enjoy working in a bookstore as I will enjoy my job as a waitress."

Scarlett kissed Annabel with passion then releasing her responding,

"Good sweetheart, now I'm going to take the buses to go get our uniforms and I'll be back in a hour or two so go ahead work extra hard on that book you've been dying to get published and I'll be back to make love to you again."

Angel tapped Scarlett on the shoulder getting her out of the predictions that were a nightmare as Scarlett looked at Annabel and Angel in a scarce than headed off to the bathroom without a word to either of them. She couldn't change a future it is going to take a lot to make Annabel Hudson to actually adore her. Angel needed to find a girlfriend that is for sure because she couldn't see controlling Angel in the future.

As if the despair of it couldn't bite her in the ass anymore this did. Scarlett didn't know how to change the future with either ladies and she had too some way to keep from getting Angel in a mess with her. Annabel cleared her throat saying,

"Scarlett, are you okay?"

Scarlett looked around replying,

"Not really, I can predict the future as of recently and if I don't end up with you, I will be a bad person in the future towards Angel because I missed my opportunity with you once before and I made Angel become you. It doesn't look pretty and I can't risk doing that to Angel."

Annabel held in a laugh responding,

"So, that is why you stopped mid-way to the principal's office. No one can predict the future even if they wanted too. Plus, I just started here so things can change or stay the same you can't control what comes at you."

Scarlett looked at Angel desperately for help as Angel replied to Annabel,

"I get it, same as you do, unfortunately for over the past week she's only been seeing me as you in the future and it isn't pretty. Scarlett abuses me,hurts me and so much more in the future it is rather scary if you ask me."

Annabel sighed responding,

"Alright girls, I will see you both in a bit or after school, I am going to see our principal."

Angel and Scarlett nodded walking to their first class without another word to one another as Annabel got her day started.

## Chapter 7

First class of the day Scarlett's lost in thought not even focusing on the subject at hand as she drew Annabel on her notebook and put her name across everything, she didn't care if she failed or passed. Then about mid-way through the lesson the classroom door opens Scarlett looks up to see and it's her, her as in Annabel Hudson a god sent angel that has devoured her heart in less than twelve hours. Scarlett saw that Annabel blushed looking right at her, made her heart leap even more.

Her teacher assigned Annabel next to Scarlett making her giggle a bit. Scarlett knew her prediction's were a joke there is no way that she destroyed Angel. Scarlett got excited when Annabel passed her note that read,

"Scarlett,

Meet me by my locker #128 it's downstairs after class.

Sincerely,

Annabel"

Scarlett passed the note back quickly before their teacher saw which wasn't hard to get caught in that school. After the bell rang Scarlett sat their still finishing up her assignment she still fell behind a bit even after all the commotion of Annabel in her school now. Scarlett quickly gave the teacher her assignment than walked fast to Annabel's locker before the next bell and luckily when she arrived Texan Sweetheart stayed put with a smile saying,

"Took you long enough, that assignment had it's challenges."

Scarlett nodded happily replying,

"That it sure did, so what did you need?"

Annabel came up closer to Scarlett whispering in her ear,

"I am hoping this Gothic girl would be my girlfriend, she goes by Scarlett."

Scarlett felt chills down her spine as she went to reply their lips met and they were in such a deep kiss that neither of them heard the bell. Annabel backed away from the kiss with a smile saying,

"So, what do you say? Do you want to be my girlfriend?"

Scarlett quickly stood straight up with a nervous smile replying,

"Yes, yes I do."

Annabel giggled responding,

"Good, so you know my parent's have no idea I am lesbian because if I tell them anything they'll send me away to this horrible camp for Gay and Lesbian kids and teens. It's a place where they throw the bible at you where you have to learn to abide by them. Do you're parent's know you are lesbian?"

Scarlett nodded yes replying,

"My mom figured it out since I never brought home guys and well Angel was the first girl over, we never did anything, so I am still a virgin too."

Annabel raised a eyebrow responding,

"What about your dad?"

Scarlett looked down at her feet shuffling them against the floor replying,

"I wish not to talk about that."

Annabel curiously wondered what had happened to her dad that she didn't wish to speak about it but she didn't pressure the issue. Annabel gently grabbed Scarlett's hand whispering,

"I am thinking about heading to my home for the rest of the day, you want to join me?"

Scarlett giggled whispering back,

"I missed school with Angel the other day, I don't think I can this time."

Annabel winked whispering,

"We will have some fun, come on, you weren't going to graduate anyways."

Scarlett agreed on that since she has been failing miserably so Annabel took Scarlett out of the school and down to her house when a flashback came back this time a change from Angel,

"Annabel, you can't leave, we promised to be together, where are you going?"

Annabel sobbed replying,

"I have no idea my love but please remember my parent's can't control what my heart believes and I know you will find me again some day."

Scarlett held onto Annabel tightly responding,

"I hope they don't send you to those evil christian camps you told me about. Please remember to write me and keep me in your thoughts, you are my everything."

The flashback cut off on Scarlett as she had tears flowing looking at Annabel saying,

"This can't be repeat no,no,no not this time."

Annabel raised a brow replying,

"You had another vision, what about?"

Scarlett wiped her tears responding,

"You moving away from here because of us as a couple, I can't let your parent's do that and I won't let you go."

Annabel hugged Scarlett tightly replying,

"My parent's can't control anything, not even us."

Scarlett knew that she returned the hug responding,

"I don't think we need to be here in case your parent's come home, let's go to my place or something."

Annabel thought about it replying,

"Alright, I am not wanting my parent's to freak over us anyways and the way that vision sound that sounds like they would be punishing me more than just skipping school."

Scarlett grabbed her hand and guided her quickly to her mom's house as they made it to the property without being seen by the law Scarlett saw that Shane's truck was their as she whispered to Annabel,

"My mom's girlfriend is here, so that means my mom never went to work again. We will need to find a hiding spot away from school and everyone else."

Annabel leaned over whispering back,

"As long as we don't get caught by any adults, I don't care, I want to be with you for the day."

Scarlett grinned as they ran off hand in hand to find some place sacred for the rest of the day and hope the school doesn't call their parent's because they were going to be in some deep trouble if it keeps happening. They needed a hide away for weekends that were late at night without Annabel's parent's freaking out.

Scarlett and Annabel ran as fast as they could through bushes and trees without getting caught even with heavy backpacks on their backs. Annabel huffed and puffed saying,

"Where are we going babe?"

Scarlett huffed and puffed herself replying,

"Anywhere that we can hide until school let's out because I am not letting your parent's see you with me and I lose you for life."

Annabel took a deep breath responding,

"Scarlett, we don't have a fort or anything to hide from everyone. I have no idea what Michigan has to offer in their wild life."

Scarlett chuckled replying,

"I do though, I have watched shows that show you how to build a fort or a treehouse to keep safe. I have to know for my sake, are you willing to trek with me as we accomplish this?"

Annabel gave a sheepish smile responding,

"Of course, anything so we can be together without your mom and my parent's freaking out."

Scarlett and Annabel rushed to the near by woods without another word on how to live without any help from her mom or anyone else. They decided that they didn't need school anymore either that they can make a living out of food and water found near by in the woods of their location. Michigan has everything they could of ever wanted together even for rebellious girls like them.

Though Annabel knew they would have to go home some times especially so their parent's wouldn't send police or any other authority out on them for leaving school and home without knowing their location so she said to Scarlett in a shy voice,

"We can't live out here at least not yet, we do have to finish school and make a living for ourselves. We can build on our new home daily than when we turn of age we can show our parent's because I don't want to be taken from you but at the same time I don't want to lose my education either."

Scarlett scratched her chin thinking about it than finally responded,

"Alright, Annabel you got it, we will skip school today just to justify our new home for future work and we will also stay in school though I hate it right now because I am failing at everything."

Annabel clapped in her cheerful squealing voice replying,

"Yay!! I will help you, especially so we can graduate together. I will just let my parent's know we are friends as for your mom, well she probably won't care."

Scarlett knew her mother wouldn't say anything to Annabel's parent's that they were going out but to be on the safe side she'll just say they are friends in case they do end up meeting in the near future.

## Chapter 8

After a day out with Annabel, Scarlett wanted nothing more than to sleep but her mom had a request that she needed handled involving her that means being grounded since she got a text from Annabel saying that she's grounded too for missing school on her first day. Scarlett laid in her room until she heard a knock on the door as she said,

"Come in."

Shane came in with dinner and a drink replying,

"I heard you didn't go to school today, so why weren't you there?"

Scarlett rolled her eyes responding,

"I don't need to tell you, you aren't even a parent figure here."

Shane sighed shaking her head replying,

"I guess you wouldn't want your mom to settle down with a woman, is that it?"

Scarlett laughed responding,

"Ha ha! Very funny, no it's because I don't think my mom actually is into women."

That moment Shane lost it in laughter replying,

"You don't know you're mom very well then. I am planning on taking your mom's hand in several weeks, I am hoping you would be okay with that?"

Scarlett looked wide eye at Shane responding,

"You are going to marry my mom! No, no, no this can't be happening. Shane, why would you want to marry mom?"

Shane sat down in the computer chair replying,

"I love her, she means a lot to me and you do too even though you don't like me now, you will in time."

Scarlett never thought about her mom remarrying but she knew it'd come so she replied,

"Alright Shane, you can marry mom."

Shane smiled leaving Scarlett's room without another word as Scarlett laid there without touching her dinner which is fried cod fish and mashed potatoes not much of a appetite but it is food. Scarlett kept thinking of how she would love to have Annabel here with her they had such a wonderful bond. Scarlett became lost in thought when her mother came in the room saying,

"Scarlett, why did you and this girl Annabel skip school?"

Scarlett shrugged replying,

"You didn't care when me and Angel, so what's the difference with Annabel?"

Andrea rolled her eyes responding,

"I got to know Angel and I have no idea who this girl is."

Scarlett sighed replying,

"We were going to her place first but I didn't want to risk her getting in trouble, so we came here second, well you and Shane were here, so we snuck off to the woods to build a home for us both."

Andrea chuckled responding,

"You are so much like me when I was a teen, I did the same with my first girlfriend Kaitlyn Macabre she was a beauty in every way. We didn't work out due to her Christian belief's."

Scarlett laughed out loud then went serious replying,

"Mom, I am meant to be with Annabel Hudson instead of Angel Knight, Angel falls for a woman name Jana in the future."

Andrea scratched her chin responding,

"I still want to meet this girl before you think of running off from home and if I get married again I want you at my wedding, understand?"

Scarlett nodded giving her mom a hug replying,

"Are you grounding me for two days of skipping of school?"

Andrea nodded in agreement responding,

"Most definitely since Annabel is grounded too, I will take your cell phone and you can go back to being my smart girl and work on that back log of homework for two weeks."

Scarlett sighed heavily replying,

"Alright mom, here is my phone,laptop,tablet and my game systems. I need to catch up soon before I fail my freshman year for skipping two days of school."

Andrea took everything to her room than came back saying,

"You do know Shane is staying right?"

Scarlett looked at her mom wide eye replying,

"She is?"

Andrea nodded responding,

"I love her very much and I hope in time you will appreciate her as much as I do. She isn't Kaitlyn or Angelique but she makes me happy and that is all you're dad would of ever wanted."

Scarlett didn't think her mom would fall in love again though she knew Shane had a way to appeal to her mom without trying. Scarlett slumped her shoulder's replying,

"I am glad you and Shane love each other mom, I will give her a chance since dad would have wanted that from his baby girl."

Andrea hugged Scarlett responding,

"Finish your dinner and get some school work done before bed because sweetheart when you two are released from being grounded, you will be introducing me to her."

Scarlett hugged her back replying,

"Okay, oh yeah her parent's are in the dark on this because they will move her away if they found out we are together that is why we are building a home in the woods for when we graduate."

Andrea shook her head responding,

"I will not tell her parent's and you will need to inform classmates and teacher's too, so that way Annabel is staying here because if I have to I'll take her in before they took her but you two won't be sharing a room, understood?"

Scarlett nodded as her mom left the room, Scarlett ate her dinner than got to studying before it got to much later.

## Chapter 9

Scarlett arrived at school with carrying her heavy load of books in her backpack from the night before staying up until eleven o'clock to complete a good chunk of it. Scarlett reached her locker as she saw a note written on it, she dropped her backpack with a thud as she snatched the note reading it,

"Scarlett,

Meet me at my locker as soon as you can.

Love,

Annabel Hudson"

Scarlett put in her combination quickly grabbing her book for her first class and than walked quickly to Annabel's locker before the bell rang. Scarlett got to Annabel's locker with time to spare seeing that her girl looked gorgeous in a bright red dress that reached to her mid thigh and wore her all time famous cowgirl boots with her hair tied up in a ponytail it made Scarlett's heart skip a beat at the beauty of Annabel.

Scarlett cleared her throat to Annabel, Annabel startled turned around than smiled hugging Scarlett as she said,

"I am so glad you finally made it into today."

Scarlett pulled Annabel out of the hug seeing her face that she had on black sunglasses in school which through her off as she replied,

"What happened Annabel?"

Annabel sighed responding,

"My dad hit me after he found out that I was hanging out with a "Witch" that wears all black and is a sin to Jesus. He told me to quit hanging out with these "Witches" before they curse me. Mom didn't seem to mind at all, she thought it was great I made a friend by the way I forgot to tell you yesterday our mom's can't meet whatever we do they can't meet because my mom is Kaitlyn Macabre Hudson they are ex-girlfriend's, my mom knows your mom which is scary."

Scarlett took a deep breath reeling in everything replying,

"Okay, so our parent's can't meet no biggie already told my mom. As for your father he sounds loony. So what is this really about?"

Annabel had a tear run down her face as she responded,

"Can I stay at your place, please? I need to get away from my dad, I will tell my mom when I call her from school today but please,please,please let me come home with you."

Scarlett sighed than wiped Annabel's tears replying,

"Let's go contact my mom or Shane and see if you could stay with us."

Annabel nodded her head fast as they rushed to a pay phone as Scarlett quickly dialed her home number, as someone picked up she said,

"Hello?"

Person on the other replied,

"Scarlett, it's Shane, everything okay?"

Scarlett took a deep breath as Annabel squeezed her hand replying,

"Yes, I mean no, oh man, okay so listen to me Shane, I am bringing home Annabel Hudson for a few days to stay in the guest room her father hit her in the eyes and she has bruises along her arms and legs. Hope you are okay with that?"

Shane released a breath on the other end responding,

"Bring her home, I am calling the law on her father for Child Abuse and did her mother do anything?"

Scarlett sighed with relief replying,

"No, her mother didn't touch her, it is just her father and his vicious ways, make sure the police know to get her mom into a hotel or with family or something and that we have Annabel."

Shane wrote down everything than told Scarlett that they stay at school and she'll pick them up this afternoon not to be on the bus. After that she hung up from Shane than told Annabel everything that gave her much relief as her father will be facing jail time for many years. Annabel didn't have to call her mom that morning since the law will probably tell her mom where she would be at.

They went to class after that they were late though everyone in class whistled being that they were popular for unknown reason's, Mrs. Kline gave a pissed off looked at she spoke,

"Take your seat ladies, Scarlett did you finish the assignments you were behind on for this class?"

Scarlett opened her book and placed all the work on her desk replying,

"Sure did, finished yours in one night as for my other teacher's well I'm working on it."

Mrs. Kline nodded in approvement as she looked over at Annabel saying,

"Miss. Hudson please remove your sunglasses while you are in my class, those are for outside not inside."

Annabel wanted to decline that she can't but did it anyways as Mrs. Kline looked startled speaking,

"Annabel, are you okay? What happened?"

Annabel shook her head no replying,

"Don't worry about it Scarlett's family has it handled for me. It'll be okay."

Mrs. Kline shook her head than responded,

"Put your sunglasses back on, you two are dismissed for today and I will let the other teacher's know. Scarlett make sure you help her with these assignment's. I am going to talk to the principal and class you can finish up your assignments and do some reading, come on girls."

Both Scarlett and Annabel grabbed their books as Mrs. Kline told them to get their backpacks and whatever they needed that they were heading home for rest of the week. Mrs. Kline went to the principal's office to call Scarlett's mom to see if they could be picked up. A hour later they were picked up as Mrs. Kline explained that with Annabel's abuse from her parent that she needs to be well cared for and started on therapy sessions to get her through everything.

Scarlett twirled Annabel around with joy that they would be staying together. Andrea didn't seem to thrilled now to raise two teenage girls but they loved each other and Shane was the person to go to on how to reach for help and now Annabel will be staying in Michigan now that makes Scarlett over joyed and feel like she has a meaning in life without recurrence of the past from when she was with Angel Knight and destroying her destiny.

## Chapter 10

Annabel didn't expect that Thomas family would take her in so soon even after her father beat her, she loved her parent's very much but she's been abused emotionally and physically by her father since she was four years old. She's never told anyone that he rapes her when her mom goes out to do errands for the church. Annabel's father is a bulky guy with black hair,brown eyes, six feet two inches and weighs two hundred ten pounds he goes by Ashton Hudson and her mother a beauty with long blonde hair, blue eyes, five feet seven inches and one hundred thirty pounds, she is a beautiful woman. Ashton and Kaitlyn met right after my mom dated Scarlett's mom Andrea, they had a really rough relationship at their time in Nineteen Seventy-One right before Grad night with their classmates it fell apart due to Lesbian's being banned from everything together.

Annabel got warmed up with hot chocolate with Scarlett cuddling in the living room watching a movie that seemed to relax them both after the harsh day. Scarlett paused the movie than leaned over whispering,

"Are you comfortable here? I mean I know it's awkward since you haven't been here officially the first time around and I know our school life has been changed again."

Annabel giggled whispering back,

"I am very comfortable here, Andrea and Shane are amazing that I can't believe even Shane had abusive parent's along with relationships no wonder Andrea and her belong together. As for school life, well I wasn't expecting the big turn around when it happened since you mentioned me moving away in the future it must've been because someone would have found out him abusing me and our relationship, I doubt it would be mom but I know someone had to told them."

Scarlett grinned widely whispering,

"All I care about is your safety, you have made a remarkable recovery around your delicate face and body."

Annabel turned rosy-cheeked whispering back,

"Thank you darling."

Scarlett kissed Annabel's forehead as Andrea cleared her throat saying,

"Alright girls, I know you two love each other very much but you really don't have to whisper here. I know it was hard to talk privately about anything in school but me and Shane aren't worried about what you have to say."

Scarlett chuckled as she replied to her mom,

"It's a hard habit to break mom, I know you and Shane don't care."

Andrea shook her head no responding,

"I have to go back to work at Abbot Action Incorporation, I work the forklift for daily basis getting stuff moved, Annabel I'm hoping you will be carrying on my job or Scarlett."

Scarlett laughed out loud replying,

"Mom, I have other dreams and so does Annabel."

Andrea sighed shaking her head no again responding,

"Alright, whatever, I have to go, see you all in the morning, Shane make sure these two get to bed a decent hour and stay in their separate rooms."

Shane kissed Andrea on the lips softly replying,

"I got them, head on to work, I love you and have a great evening."

Andrea grabbed her purse than went out the door to work. Shane sighed gathering up the mess around the house as she looked at Scarlett saying,

"Well, looks like I'm not going anywhere with you two home constantly."

Scarlett rolled her eyes replying,

"Than if you don't like it here why don't you go back where you came from?"

Shane looked at Scarlett with a raised eyebrow responding,

"I will deal with the cards handed to me, I plan on marrying you're mother soon enough than I am sending you both to a Catholic School for Girls maybe that'll teach you both to be more proper."

Annabel looked at Scarlett scared as Scarlett replied,

"You think my mom would approve of that, Annabel just got out of hell and now you plan to send us both to one."

Shane chuckled responding,

"Oh yeah Annabel, poor poor Annabel, I guess there is Military school that you can go to or I switch it up Scarlett go to Military School and Annabel go to Christian school. Oh yes that would be so perfect than you two will be separated with different partner's because Annabel will be with a male and you will be with a male as well. I do know a couple of single guys in both those departments."

Scarlett took it her que to hold Annabel's hand tight replying,

"You really think that once you marry mom that I will be willing to separate from Annabel, Shane this is ridiculous and you can't take me from here."

Shane leaned over to Scarlett once she dropped the feather duster responding,

"I will get what I want including marrying your mom and shipping you and that girl of yours away from one another. I heard about you're prediction's Scarlett and once you are in Military School that will all fade away."

Scarlett growled at Shane replying,

"You can't do this all because I saw the future. I am destined to be with Annabel but as for my mom's future that is up to her."

Shane gave a scowl responding,

"I have everything I want here but getting rid of you two is my next task."

Scarlett held tighter to Annabel's hand than she got them both up from the couch and ran to the door than to their hide out that they still needed to work on. Scarlett isn't going to let anyone take her true love though they haven't been together very long this is her dream girl.

## Chapter 11

They arrived at their spot Annabel shivered in the cold rain saying,

"Scarlett, we don't have enough shelter here, your mom is going to freak out that we aren't there this evening."

Scarlett sighed shaking her wet hair no as the water drips down her face replying,

"I know this is a mess, I can contact Angel to see if she'll let us stay with her but my mom knows her and she most likely has Harley there with her."

Annabel raised a brow responding,

"Harley? Whose Harley?"

Scarlett chuckled replying,

"Harley Quincy is a rebel girl who has green, red and white hair, she wears black clothes but with much more class. She's about our height and maybe ninety pounds soaking wet. You know Batman and Joker, well okay Harley is addicted to the Joker and so she dresses like Harley Quinn."

Annabel laughed out loud responding,

"Well if it makes Angel happy than we will leave her be with this girl. I hope she finds a true girlfriend in the future."

Scarlett brushed Annabel's hair away from her eyes replying,

"She will for sure, she will fall in love with a woman name Jana Johnson."

Annabel smiled than leaned over kissing Scarlett with passion as their bodies were still soaked as she whispered,

"I love you Scarlett Myra Thomas, I am so glad no one can tear us apart."

Scarlett smiled with ease leaving kisses on Annabel's cheeks whispering back,

"I love you Annabel Skye Hudson."

*

That next morning Scarlett feeling her numb arm around Annabel as she leaned over leaving a light kiss on her forehead that moment Annabel groaned saying,

"Where are we? What time is it?"

Scarlett chuckled replying,

"We are still in the woods and I have no idea."

Annabel stretched her arms out responding,

"This is hell, that we have no home now or anything to survive on."

Scarlett dug out her backpack that she snuck back to the house for and Annabel's luckily her mom wasn't home along with Shane asleep with music. Scarlett dumped out all the school work on her bed, leaving her mom a quick note about Shane's plan and that she loved her very much. Scarlett rushed getting food and drinks plus materials to build their new home. She is grateful they had wood in the woods so she just needed nails,hammer and few other materials.

Annabel looked shocked saying,

"You stole from you're mom to get everything for us to survive on, wow! I knew you were bad but I didn't think that bad."

Scarlett laughed out loud replying,

"Babe, I did this so we could eat daily and get our home here set up. I know this isn't a great start but we have to do something. Hell, we go back to school in four days might as well take advantage of our time off while we can."

Annabel struggled to smile responding,

"I wish we could be in a safe home instead of Shane being out to ruin us."

Scarlett knew her mom would do anything to find her if possible but she knew Shane would convince her mom of anything. Scarlett took a deep breath replying,

"She can't destroy everything even if my mom would be looking for us."

Annabel pondered really hard on that as she ate her granola bar than she responded,

"Scarlett, honestly I think you're mom would be hunting for us or the law would be since we didn't exactly leave her a note of our disappearance."

Scarlett slid down on the warm ground that they laid on for the night replying,

"I did leave mom a note in her office before leaving the house last night, I doubt Shane disturbs mom's office when she's not there but my hope is mom doesn't send anyone looking for us and Shane doesn't make a scene about how we were mean to her when we wasn't."

Annabel heaved a heavy sigh responding,

"Until then you will be having us work on our home out here with no other materials to be used besides tree's,plants and nails. That isn't enough to work with for a safe place plus we still need sinks,toilets,bedroom furniture and anything else to keep us provided."

Scarlett wanted to scream but she knew Annabel is right they have nothing prepared for a home in the woods even if they tried to make a fort it wouldn't be safe, none of them having carpentry to build a beautiful home.

Scarlett sighed packing everything back up as she looked at Annabel saying,

"Might as well go deal with being transferred to new school's."

Annabel held Scarlett's arm replying,

"You don't know that and even if we are moved to new school's, we can still keep in contact by mailing letter's."

Scarlett took a deep breath responding,

"You're right, let's go face mom and Shane before we end up spending more time in these woods."

They grabbed everything than walked out of the wood's hand in hand back to Scarlett's mom's home.

## Chapter 12

Scarlett took a deep breath as she arrived at her home that her dad made sure they would enjoy. Scarlett walked across the lawn, reaching the front door, she turned the handle and it turned out to be locked which through her off, so she went around to the back getting same result. Scarlett dug in her backpack looking for the house key luckily she held on to it. Scarlett reached for the front door, placing the key inside the door knob and turning it, gratefully both of them were able to get inside.

Andrea came running to Scarlett at the door hugging Scarlett tightly saying,

"What were you two thinking? Staying in the woods. You both have bed's here and a perfect life here. Shane is gone for good, so you two have nothing to worry about, I will always choose my daughter and future daughter in law over someone who wants to destroy my life. Next time someone does this either of you call me at work, understand?"

They both nodded as Scarlett took a deep breath replying,

"Mom, what about Angelique has she ever returned?"

Andrea shook her head responding,

"No, but I have a surprise for both of you."

Annabel and Scarlett looked at each other curiously wondering what Andrea is up to, they stood in the doorway nervously as Annabel nudged Scarlett saying,

"I hope this isn't nothing bad."

Scarlett whispered,

"Me too."

Andrea came out holding hands to Annabel's surprise her own mom Kaitlyn, she wanted to hide or something but she stood beside Scarlett without a word then Andrea spoke,

"Scarlett, I would like you to meet my first love and Annabel's mother Kaitlyn Macabre by the way Annabel, she is divorcing you're father so you're mom will not be a Hudson."

Annabel stood breathless then Scarlett took a step forward replying,

"Mom, do you plan on marrying Kaitlyn?"

Andrea chuckled responding,

"In due time yes, not right now though, Kaitlyn and Annabel are in our lives now."

Scarlett sighed heavily replying,

"Are they sharing a room or is Kaitlyn going in you're room?"

Andrea moved Scarlett's hair out of her eyes responding,

"I have made arrangements that you and Annabel share you're room and I will have Kaitlyn in my room."

That is when the front door open with Shane standing there taking a furious look saying,

"You had everything, EVERYTHING WITH ME!! How could you do this Andrea?! I thought you loved me."

Scarlett grabbed Annabel and Kaitlyn away from the door as she saw her mother shaking in response,

"After you kicked the girls out of MY home, I knew you weren't worth my time."

Shane growled walking closer to Andrea with fury in her eyes replying,

"Those girls need discipline especially Scarlett that rebellious child."

Andrea backed away a couple feet responding,

"Scarlett is calm since Annabel has been around and Annabel doesn't need anymore complications in her life."

Shane moved closer to Andrea nearly putting her against a wall replying,

"Annabel would survive in a all girls Catholic School and you're precious Scarlett need's Military School teach her sassy ass to calm down."

Andrea is cornered into a wall as Shane pulled out a knife inching it closer to Andrea's heart that moment she told Kaitlyn that she will always love her and that for her to make sure her daughter will be safe. Scarlett and Annabel screamed in horror that moment Andrea bled from her chest with tears running down her face that froze in place. Kaitlyn held both Scarlett and Annabel that moment Shane turned on them saying,

"Well now girls, this is all good and fun but I must go."

Shane left the house leaving Andrea's body down on the ground. Scarlett reached for her phone, dialing nine-one-one explaining her mom's dead and that Ronni "Shane" White had murdered her mother. Kaitlyn looked dazed and confused from everything that happened. The police had arrived turned out Brian Burgundy who saw her father's death in that nasty car wreck had tears fall from his face as he looked right at Scarlett saying,

"I am so sorry Scarlett, now you are without Andrea and Derek. Them two will be happy together in heaven but I will be on the look out for Ronni, she won't get away with this. Where do you plan on staying?"

Scarlett knew she couldn't stay at her home taking a deep breath looking at Annabel and Kaitlyn replying,

"I will be staying with Kaitlyn Hudson and Annabel Hudson."

Brian nodded seeing the ladies in front of him responding,

"Good, where do you live Mrs. Hudson?"

Kaitlyn shyly responded,

"Actually, we don't have a place. My husband is in jail and my daughter has lived here with her girlfriend Scarlett since then. I had to sell all of our stuff to make ends meet by myself. I came here to find my daughter because Scarlett's mom called me frantically about the girls. It had been a rocky road Brian."

Brian sighed in frustration replying,

"Scarlett, your parent's left you no will to your name if anything happened to them, so you're home will be gone and so it is looking like you'll be going into Foster with Natalie Lancaster."

Scarlett groaned responding,

"What about Annabel? We aren't supposed to be apart."

Brian shrugged replying,

"Sorry princess, it's the law, they'll go to a Woman and Children's Shelter with Mark Hanson."

Scarlett wanted to scream that her life now is literally going to shit once again.

## Chapter 13

Scarlett woke up from her deep coma as she looked around the white room taking a deep breath knowing it had all become a dream, her childhood now gone and changed in her mental mind. Scarlett wasn't sure if it was true that her mom had died. She craved Annabel Hudson her future wife that is promise to her soul. Scarlett heard a Texan voice saying,

"Scarlett, Scarlett, it's Annabel Skye Hudson, I am right here, holding you're hand."

Scarlett turned her head slightly from the bed looking at Annabel replying,

"You came."

Annabel smiled responding,

"Of course, I found out from Angel Knight that you are alive. I did read you're letter too, how could you have done that to Angel?"

Scarlett sighed replying,

"Because I wanted you and she is the next person I wanted close to you."

Annabel shook her head responding,

"Scarlett, I am married to a wonderful lady and we have two adopted kids. When I got out of my parent's home in Utah, I went back to Texas and found my first girlfriend Madison Holmes. I am sorry Scarlett, we can't be together, I love my life with Madison. You have to move on from me. I have to go now, I am glad you are okay though."

Scarlett had a lump in her throat holding back her tears that her true love have moved on. Scarlett watched Annabel walk out the door without another word, leaving Scarlett with her thoughts. Scarlett started to drift off to sleep as Angel came in with Harley who did a three hundred sixty turn around on her looks from the dreams she had. Angel cleared her voice saying,

"Scarlett, I am sure you remember Harley Quincy."

Scarlett nodded replying,

"Good to see you again Harley."

Harley looked at Angel with a raised eyebrow whispering,

"What does she mean again?"

Angel whispered back,

"She's been in a coma forgive her."

Harley smiled at Scarlett saying,

"You too, Scarlett. How are you recovering?"

Scarlett smirked replying,

"I am doing okay Harley, thank you."

Angel excitedly said,

"How did it go with Annabel?"

Scarlett looked away replying,

"She's happily married and has two adopted kids, loves her life."

Angel calm down responding,

"I am so sorry, I am sure you will find love again."

Scarlett looked at Angel replying,

"Is my mom and her mom still alive? Is her dad in jail?"

Angel raised a brow responding,

"For Annabel's mom, I don't know, you're mom is still alive and her dad I don't know either."

Scarlett couldn't believe her ears that her mom is alive and well replying,

"Did my mom remarry anyone name Shane?"

Angel chuckled responding,

"You're mom has never been married as far as I know."

Scarlett still confused as it became her dream that took over her real life, what type of medication did they give her? She looked at Angel again saying,

"How long have I been out of it for?"

Angel sighed replying,

"Eight month's, you told them that you didn't want to wake up into reality."

Scarlett sat up slowly responding,

"Whose my doctor?"

Angel sighed again replying,

"Hannah."

Scarlett raised up instantly responding,

"You mean nurse Hannah?"

Angel chuckled replying,

"She was a nurse yes, she graduated and asked to be here at the hospital with you."

Scarlett didn't understand responding,

"With me? This makes no sense."

Angel sighed heavily replying,

"You didn't get into the mental ward like you asked because Hannah Rosenfeld didn't want you to be hurt by their output of overdoses so she asked the male nurse transfer you to a hospital—"

Hannah cleared her throat responding,

"I knew Annabel had moved on, I have seen her come here with her family as time went on. So, I took you into my hands so you could be taken care of instead of letting the haunting past taunt you even more. I am sorry about the dreams that I couldn't control."

Scarlett looked at Angel and Hannah back an forth trying to understand everything replying,

"Hannah, first off you don't know me at all and the hell I suffer. What makes you think you can fix me from what I did to Angel?"

Hannah shook her head responding,

"Scarlett, we went to school together, I have ended up being more of a outcast compared to you. I am now "hot" according to our classmates but back then I was a complete utter nerd."

Scarlett couldn't believe a beautiful doctor like her was once a nerd she replied,

"I am sorry Hannah, that you went through hell. I know this seems nosy but are you seeing anyone?"

Hannah turned a bright pink responding,

"No, I have been single for so long that I never cared to date anyone."

Scarlett looked shocked replying,

"So, you don't know if you're lesbian,straight or bisexual?"

Hannah shrugged her shoulder's responding,

"I never care for label's and no matter who I end up with I will be happy."

Scarlett nodded in agreement at that moment Hannah went doctor on her saying,

"Alright now it is time for you to rest, no more visitor's. I will be back later to check on you."

Scarlett laid back down drifting off to sleep though she heard Hannah whisper,

"Some day, some day, we will both be happy. Shadow's Of Despair is around you're soul from a broken heart that doesn't belong to me."

Hannah left the door cracked and letting her rest as she went to complete sleep.

## Chapter 14

Scarlett dreamed nothing like before though that would make her cringe this is a happy one, peaceful. Scarlett arrived at her wedding though to her surprise it wasn't Hannah, Annabel or anyone else she knew it was a mysterious woman. It became a perfect dark wedding with red tint to it. Scarlett couldn't believe her eyes that she would end up married again this time to someone new.

Scarlett ended up being the bride in this dream, she never liked wearing dresses so whomever she is with convinced her the opposite. Than as she walked forward she could see a face that seemed to belong to Kaitlyn, her mom's best friend and lover? This dream made no sense why would she marry someone her mom loves. After about twenty minutes, she heard Hannah's voice in her dream saying that she is taking some blood work and checking her vitals. Scarlett woke up wide eye looking at Hannah saying,

"Why do I keep having crazy dream's?"

Hannah chuckled replying,

"Must be my medication working, it is exactly what you given Angel when you nearly killed her."

Scarlett shook her head in disbelief responding,

"So, you are killing me?"

Hannah shook her head no replying,

"Unfortunately no, I would be fired instantly for killing a patient. I am actually not hurting you just showing you what you have caused to Angel. You're dream's I can't explain not unless it is something with these Shadow's are around you're soul."

Scarlett raised her eye brow responding,

"Are you saying, I have a dark shadow in my soul?"

Hannah smiled lowering herself within inches of each other's lips replying,

"Unfortunately sweet cheeks, you are in what is called Shadow's Of Despair because Angel witnessed it when you snatched her from that one true love. You are no longer sweet and innocent, I would suggest you learn to love and accept what you have."

Scarlett felt her hormones raise with Hannah's lips so close, she had wanted to kiss her since they met, she couldn't focus on this so called "Shadow's Of Despair" in her soul. Their was no way she would have hope to survive these dark nightmares of no true love. Scarlett's eyes stared into Hannah's eyes replying,

"I believe you Hannah. I did deserve this torture but why isn't anyone killing me?"

Hannah swallowed a lump in her throat still being inches at Scarlett's lips responding,

"I can't answer that for you."

Scarlett turned away from Hannah's face replying,

"You can't answer anything for me at all Hannah..what is the point of me being in a hospital when I deserve to be in a mental ward."

Hannah grabbed Scarlett's face, making Scarlett look directly at her responding,

"Scarlett, please listen to me, I will be taking you to my house in the next couple days but you're spirit's are in complete demonized. You have no life inside you, all you care about is killing someone that never did anything to you."

Scarlett calmly looked at Hannah replying,

"Why should I go with you? We don't know each other and so what if I turn to a Demon no one really cares for me any how including my own mother."

Hannah moved her hands off of Scarlett's face putting her hands at her side responding,

"I do understand where you are coming from in this situation but Scarlett their has to be a understanding between us, you can't be on you're own and Angel made that clear after you tortured her along with many other issues."

Scarlett crossing her arms as Hannah took that Scarlett is pissed off, Hannah backed away saying,

"I will leave you alone to think about all this and I hope you come to realize that you will have you're life back to normal once leaving my home."

Scarlett rolled her eyes than Hannah left silently to go check on her other patients. Hannah kept thinking she could fall in love with Scarlett though it is a dangerous concept since she's in a dark poison at the moment. Hannah went to her co-worker that is a friend name Patricia Duvall, she has brunette short hair, sea green eyes, tan skin, five feet nine inches and one hundred thirty pounds.

Hannah sat next to Patricia in their cubby corner in the office of their Emergency Room as Patricia chuckled saying,

"How was it with Scarlett?"

Hannah sighed leaning back in her chair replying,

"That chick is complicated, she's upset about abusing her wife and than got pissed off because her High School Sweetheart is married to her first girlfriend and married with kids. Scarlett is a handful, I am about to call it quits on trying to get this chick out of here."

Patricia shook her head no responding,

"Unfortunately you can't, you told our boss Shannon that you would be able to take her on and her mother is due to show up any day now."

Hannah sighed in frustration running her hands through her hair replying,

"I have to go talk to Shannon this chick needs mental help badly."

Patricia shrugged her shoulder's responding,

"Good luck."

Hannah got out of her chair and rushed upstairs to go see her boss whose as beautiful as can be with dark red hair, chocolate brown eyes, pure white skin, six feet one inch and weighing at ninety-two pounds. Hannah fell for her boss hard but had to keep herself composed. Hannah reached the fifth floor when the elevator dinged that moment she ran into Shannon, Shannon shook her head saying,

"Hannah, Hannah, Hannah, come on with me to my office."

Hannah trudged behind her boss not looking at her sexy ass and her gorgeous figure. They reached the office on the far end of the top floor as Shannon opened her office door guiding Hannah in saying,

"Hannah, what is it? I have a meeting to go to soon, so make it quick."

Hannah looked at her feet replying,

"I need a new patient to work with."

Shannon came close to Hannah lifting her head up responding,

"Why is that?"

Hannah could feel Shannon's breath inches from hers replying,

"Scarlett is complicated and needs to be in a mental ward."

Shannon leaned closer to Hannah barely a whisper coming from her lips,

"I know she does this task would be to see if you can handle her without falling for her and that task is presentably capable by watching you."

Hannah's breath hitched whispering,

"Are you–"

That moment Shannon Morris kissed Hannah with deep passion not wanting to let this moment go, Hannah had to push her boss back saying,

"That is intense but shouldn't we be doing this at a date spot, maybe you're place or mine?"

Shannon grabbed Hannah by the shoulder's guiding her to the leather sofa and began to make deep passionate love to Hannah.

## Chapter 15

Hannah woke up next to Shannon after making deep love in her bosses office, she couldn't believe it as Shannon smiled from her desk saying,

"Their is my precious babe, now I am moving you up into my department and we will be together all hours of the day. You will be my lovely assistant getting me coffee,setting meetings and such. That lady in that spot before wasn't worth the time any how."

Hannah shook her head from the rush replying,

"Hold up Shannon, you are moving me up here, no, no, hold on. I never said I wanted to be out of the Emergency Room department, I wanted a new patient not for you're assistant to lose her job. You have to give me my job back."

Shannon came up from behind her desk than walked over and sat next to Hannah responding,

"So, you don't want to be my girlfriend either? We made passionate love that even made my heart feel complete."

Hannah raised a eyebrow replying,

"You're girlfriend? Shannon, we made love once and our job's will not be our result here. I admit to be attracted to you but wow, you jumped fast."

Shannon sighed making her way back to her desk responding,

"Okay,okay so I wasn't going to move you or even rush to date you, I wanted a reaction is all, we both value our jobs here."

Hannah breathed out a sigh of relief replying,

"Than what is this between us?"

Shannon looked at Hannah with a teary eye responding,

"I don't know but leave me you're cell phone number and we will discuss it tonight, go check on Scarlett."

Hannah went to Shannon's desk leaving her cell phone number, walked to the door, turned around looking at Shannon with one last deep look than hung her head down as she left the office and headed back downstairs. Hannah headed back downstairs to her Emergency Room station with Patricia as she said,

"Let me guess got stuck with Scarlett Thomas still?"

Hannah looked up startled replying,

"Oh yeah, yeah I did but it's okay. How was she?"

Patricia shook her head no back and forth responding,

"Let's just say this girlfriend, you are in fact the only woman I know who can get through to a psycho path because she flatly asked that you are her full time doctor, she doesn't want nurses anymore."

Hannah looked at Patricia wide eyed replying,

"That is shock."

At that moment one of the ladies from the front said,

"Hannah, Scarlett is calling for you."

Hannah got up from her desk, walked across the office, finding Scarlett in her room with a smile on her face saying,

"Glad to see you back, I like Patricia but she sure isn't you. So, what is plans for today?"

Hannah raised a brow replying,

"Um..Scarlett you need to be laying down, we have nothing planned this is a Emergency Room."

Scarlett laughed responding,

"Oh, so I can leave, great! Let me pack my things."

Hannah rushed over to Scarlett replying,

"No, you can't leave here Scarlett, what is the matter with you?"

Scarlett glared at Hannah responding,

"Nothing is the matter Hannah, I just want to go home."

Hannah looked at Scarlett's black eyes startled calling out to everyone saying,

"HELP ME! We have a demon on the loose in this hospital. I NEED A PRIEST!!"

Scarlett shoved Hannah against the wall and flew out of the hospital without stopping as Hannah tried to get up with aching pain in her spine. Patricia came in the room seeing Hannah on the ground saying,

"Where is Scarlett?"

Hannah pushed saliva down her throat replying,

"I don't know but she is a dark demon now and this is going to get very bad."

Patricia helped Hannah off the ground though Hannah had a feeling this isn't the last of seeing Scarlett in her new form, this is going to get worse as time goes on.

*

Scarlett escaped that hospital without a problem, she had ripped off her vitals and everything before Hannah had returned. She had to get out of that white stuffy room before they shipped her off to a mental ward though she knew she needed it, she didn't want to accept it. Scarlett knew she wasn't a demon, she just turned her eyes black by not sleeping very much. It was a specialty her Great Aunt Angelique taught her as a kid, it freaked out her mom so much that she is glad that it worked out as a advantage.

According to old photo's of my mom Andrea and Angelique they were best of friends until my mom spilled her guts about being attracted to her and her sexuality, they haven't spoken since then but since I knew of her I kept paying her a visit to learn her life which turned out to be amazing as you see Angelique is a dark witch but she knows everything going into to child birth and such. Angelique took in Scarlett because she knew in time to train her as her own witch. Scarlett bowed down saying,

"Goddess Angeline, I am here for another lesson in witch craft. What is on the agenda today?"

Angelique smiled replying,

"My dear child, there is no lesson today as we have to make sure you're mom isn't expecting another baby."

Scarlett startled responding,

"Wait? You two still are friends after that big blow out after dad died?"

Angelique shook her head no replying,

"My lovely princess, you are my daughter, I have adopted you and you are now Yates along with you're mom."

Scarlett literally thrown off responding,

"That can't be, I knew mom and you had a big fight but since when did mom and you work it out? What about this new baby? Did mom have a affair?"

Angelique grabbed Scarlett's shoulder's replying,

"Relax, we worked out while you were in a bad mental state with Angel and we used specimen from a lab to have another baby."

Scarlett couldn't believe her ears, she never thought her own mom would settle down without her. On top of it she's going to have a new brother or sister any day now. Scarlett calmly took a deep breath responding,

"Am I having a brother or sister?"

Angelique smiled with pride responding,

"A baby brother named Lance Marc Yates, he's already showing like a football star and beyond remarkable growth, he's so far a seven pound baby."

So much for having a sister Scarlett thought to herself though she will love her new brother the same way. It is going to get challenging with these changes.

## Chapter 16

Being twenty-eight with a new baby brother is a challenge turned out her mom was expecting Lance no later than January and sure enough her mom remarried after twenty years. Angelique and Andrea made a pact knowing that they needed each other. They fell in love after six months of dating. Unfortunately for herself, she's still suffering from dark possessions every now and then.

Hannah never came back to recover Scarlett after everything so she knew they weren't destined to be with one another since in the local news announced that they were happily married and expecting a baby by no later than July that next year. Lance is a gorgeous baby boy with dark brown hair, brown eyes, he favored both Angelique and her mom with their mending color of skin. His mixed skin color would get ladies crawling all over him when he grows up.

Scarlett didn't enjoy being known as "Shadow's Of Despair", yes that had become her name with time. No woman would come around her though Kaitlyn Macabre had purposely became attractive to her taking Scarlett even on a deeper down world spiral. Scarlett finally sent Kaitlyn off on her way to find a true meaning of love because Scarlett had no emotions to even make love to her anymore.

Scarlett needed hope for change as her mom came to her saying,

"Baby girl, you have to move on from this darkness that Angelique has given you, it wasn't supposed to be this bad."

Scarlett raised a brow replying,

"What do you mean?"

Andrea sat down on Scarlett's bed responding,

"Angelique was supposed to be giving you practices for good not dark. I don't know what went wrong since I wasn't there but honey this has got to be changed."

Scarlett still didn't understand what her mom went so she replied,

"Mom, I am clueless, what is going on with me?"

Andrea shook her head no back and forth responding,

"That darkness inside you're very soul is the curse called "Shadow's Of Despair" it was a formative to keep you in line from when you're dad died many years ago and unfortunately it has made everything much worse."

Scarlett didn't feel no different but obviously something was wrong since everyone became afraid of her. Scarlett held her mom's hand replying,

"Is their a way to reverse this curse?"

Andrea shrugged her shoulder's as Angelique came in saying,

"Dearest, there is no way at all to reverse the curse. Though you could always do what any true princess would do if they are cursed in those fairy tale books."

Scarlett sighed in frustration replying,

"This is one reason I don't date for one fairy tales don't exist and two what the hell kind of woman is going to believe I am a demon of some sort."

Andrea and Angelique chuckled as Andrea responded,

"Obviously Kaitlyn didn't care what you were and she still loved you."

Scarlett rolled her eyes replying,

"No, no, no not Kaitlyn you're ex girlfriend from school."

Andrea shrugged responding,

"Than I guess you are on you're own because you aren't getting back with Angel Knight, you hear me?"

Scarlett nodded as both of them left to go tend to Lance. Scarlett's thoughts what could lead her to a better ending than sitting in darkness by herself. Soon as she sighed heavily someone spoke at that door saying,

"Hey girl, you need to get out of here and come hang out with me."

Scarlett looked up to see whose speaking to her in that tone, it turned out to be Jana Johnson standing right in front of her. Scarlett gawked trying to find words to speak but they wouldn't come as Jana spoke again,

"Scarlett, you look like you've seen double of me, what is going on?"

Scarlett stuttered her words replying,

"You...her...I...what...is going..on?"

Jana laughed responding,

"We've been friends for many years even after you took my fiancee, you confided in me to believe that you meant no harm."

Scarlett shook her head no back and forth replying,

"We were never friends...you hated me, you wanted me dead."

Jana rolled her eyes responding,

"I swear them drugs mess you up more and more each day."

Scarlett raised her brow replying,

"Drugs...wait you don't think that I am a witch or anything else."

Jana raised her own brow responding,

"A witch? Scarlett you have completely lost you're mind. Me , You, Angel, Annabel and Harley all went to school together here. Do you not remember?"

Scarlett shook her head no replying,

"Unfortunately, I have no recall."

Jana rolled her eyes responding,

"You are totally gone from reality."

Scarlett stood up walking toward Jana replying,

"What am I? Jana, what happened to me?"

Jana walked toward Scarlett responding,

"I don't know but all I can say is you're mom knows about this dark magic and I recommend you to get help with a special person."

Scarlett shook her head no replying,

"My mom and Angelique think I have to fall in love to end the curse."

Jana stopped midway responding,

"I can tell you it isn't me."

Scarlett laughed replying,

"No kidding, it was Angel."

Jana shook her head no responding,

"Technically it still is, I haven't settled down and I am only twenty-nine, she's only twenty-six."

Scarlett raised a brow replying,

"This isn't adding up at all."

Jana chuckled responding,

"It never does."

Scarlett remained in her room seeking a way to avoid finding love because there is no hope for her at all. She had a brother to handle plus help her new mom and mother out with anything. She didn't understand everything that has been going on, it seemed she has been in a coma for years. More than anything Scarlett wanted to kill herself but she couldn't because most likely this darkness offers her protection of some sort.

## Chapter 17

Having hope seemed so impossible for Scarlett, she didn't even know how to handle this dark force inside her. Jana and Scarlett were still standing in the middle of her room not being able to hold a conversation. Jana cleared her throat saying,

"Scarlett, come on let's go out and do something?"

Scarlett shrugged her shoulder's replying,

"You aren't afraid of me?"

Jana laughed out loud responding,

"We spent a whole hour of discussing about you, so no I am not."

Scarlett sighed as her mom Andrea came in saying,

"You are needing out of here, go with Jana, me and Angelique got you're baby brother."

Scarlett looked at Jana speaking softly,

"Let me get changed and look decent to where ever we are headed."

Jana patted Scarlett on the arm replying,

"You will see, see you in a few minutes."

Jana left Scarlett's room as she went to her closet looking for something decent to wear. Jana popped back in the room with her boyfriend Wallace, he smiled at Scarlett saying,

"Hope you don't mind me joining you two on you're outing."

Scarlett shrugged replying,

"I can't say no, it's up to Jana obviously."

Jana rolled her eyes responding,

"He actually isn't staying with us, he's heading off to New Jersey."

Scarlett smirked at Jana replying,

"So, we have to drop him off at the airport?"

Jana nodded yes responding,

"No, he is just visiting here and his buddy is going to take him."

Scarlett rolled her eyes replying,

"Okay."

Scarlett covered her breasts trying to find a top, she found blue jeans that worked for that afternoon. Jana came up behind Scarlett grabbing a dark blue blouse saying,

"This will work, be sure to wear a bra."

Scarlett chuckled replying,

"I knew that, thank you."

Jana shrugged walking out of the room, closing the door and Scarlett removed her hands from her breasts than grabbed a black bra from her top drawer and than urgently rushed to finish getting ready with her dark black hair making curls. She grabbed her boots out from underneath her bed sighing knowing this is taking to long to be ready for a outing with Angel's true love. Scarlett finished placing her boots on then Jana opened her bedroom door saying,

"Come on you. It took you longer to get ready than I do most days."

Scarlett laughed replying,

"Let me get my purse and we will go."

Jana waved the purse in the air responding,

"I have it, now let's go before your mom's change their minds."

Scarlett grabbed her purse as they ran out the door when Andrea yelled out the window saying,

"You are to be home at ten o'clock Scarlett, we still need you're help with your brother."

Scarlett nodded replying loudly,

"You got it mom, see you later."

They left in a hurry taking her boyfriend Wallace home, so he could head out to New Jersey. Jana reached over grabbing Scarlett's hand after dropping off Wallace looking at Scarlett with a full smile saying,

"You know even being best friend for over twenty years, we still hang out every day."

Scarlett chuckled replying,

"Jana, I still don't get how we hang out every day, when we hated each other."

Jana rolled her eyes responding,

"You are loco chick,we are heading to the mall so hope you are ready to find a girlfriend to get out of this so called "curse" because for one we need to stick together."

Scarlett patted Jana's hand than removing it off of hers replying,

"So I can save Angel from the death of my hands in the future or past where ever the hell I have ended up here."

Jana looked quickly at Scarlett responding,

"Angel dying how?"

Scarlett struggled to breath replying,

"I...um...uh..drug..her..up."

Jana shook her head no repeatedly responding,

"No, no, not you! Why?"

Scarlett cleared her throat holding back tears replying,

"Because she wasn't doing anything I asked her especially keeping away from you."

Jana held tighter on the steering wheel responding,

"That is being a selfish bitch right there Scarlett."

Scarlett lowered her head replying,

"I know."

Scarlett didn't know what to do to change time for everything including her past or present whatever time damnation she was in. Though she hadn't looked at Newspaper to tell what year it was or day thinking she needs to when she gets to the mall.

## Chapter 18

Entering this massive mall called River Town Crossings it was a beautiful location with a waterfall in the center right in view. Jana looked at Scarlett with a smile saying loudly,

"This is a mall you wouldn't forget. Let's go to Spencer's or Hot Topic."

Scarlett shook her head replying loudly,

"I need to find a newspaper."

Jana raised a brow responding,

"Why?"

Scarlett smiled replying,

"I need to know what Month,Day and Year it is."

Jana chuckled responding,

"It is June Eighteenth Twenty-Thirty."

Scarlett's eyes went wide replying,

"Two Thousand Thirty, holy bajeesus...I went from Twenty Ten to now Thirty this is unbelievable."

Jana raised her eye brows responding,

"Twenty Ten, Wow! Quite a road trip."

Scarlett laughed replying,

"You're telling me, so why do we need to go to Spencer's or Hot Topic?"

Jana shrugged responding,

"Maybe finding you a girlfriend would be easier in there."

Scarlett laughed out loud replying,

"Chick, there is women everywhere in this mall, so it shouldn't be hard."

Jana and Scarlett walked to the map finding Spencer's on the other side of the mall and down the escalator, luckily their was one by the front door and they went down to Spencer's. Scarlett wasn't paying attention when she ran into another lady saying,

"I am so sorry, are you okay?"

The lady chuckled replying,

"I am fine and don't worry about it, we all get clumsy most days."

Scarlett lifted her head looking into the woman's eyes responding,

"I...I am glad, you are very beautiful by the way."

The woman blushed than scrambled to pick up the rest of her stuff replying,

"Thank you but I must go."

Scarlett nodded seeing that the lady with light blonde hair and curves of a angel made her shiver when Jana whispered,

"She's married, good try though."

Scarlett sighed heavily replying,

"At least she's gorgeous. We better get to Spencer's."

Jana nodded in agreement responding,

"Yes we should."

They walked a little faster than made it inside Spencer's, she looked around seeing barely anyone inside the store. A lady came to Scarlett with a grin since she was looking at ball caps saying,

"What hat would like?"

Scarlett looked down at the small woman that was half her size replying,

"I am just looking no need to get me a hat."

The lady nodded with a smile responding,

"I noticed you have no wedding band on your hand, are you single?"

Scarlett chuckled replying,

"Whose asking?"

The lady shuffled her feet responding,

"My boss over in the corner."

Scarlett looked over her shoulder seeing a beautiful woman with brunette straight hair with brown eyes, a light pink dress with black high heels that showed her thighs that looked so marvelous. She had perfect size breasts about a C or D cups. Scarlett licked her lips as the woman did too than she told the small woman,

"Give her my cell number to call or text me later."

Scarlett pulled out pen and paper from her purse with her name on it than gave it to the lady as she said,

"I will, thank you."

Scarlett nodded seeing as she followed the woman handing her boss the phone number explaining to text or call than the woman winked at her that moment Jana came over clearing her throat saying,

"Well looks like someone has taste in you."

Scarlett sighed replying,

"With hopes she isn't married or to be married."

Jana tugged Scarlett out of the store without anything, Scarlett didn't know what to think about a woman approaching her without knowing her it is usually her friend's hitting on her to make it all happen. Not this time a gorgeous brunette had wanted her attention she just hope it is in the right frame of mind.

## Chapter 19

Scarlett's phone buzzed as they sat down for lunch when she looked it was a new number, so she opened the message reading,

"Hello darling,

My name is Amanda Snyder, how are you doing this wonderful day? I saw you in my store here at the mall and I must say you are so breath taking. I am forty-five,single,no kids,widow and into women. My wife passed away five years ago been single since. I am hoping you text back, see you later."

Scarlett couldn't believe what she read when she looked at Jana saying,

"Her name is Amanda Snyder, my gosh I have to date her and hopefully more."

Jana snatched Scarlett's phone placing it on the table replying,

"Not so fast, you will not be texting her back, you will get a direct answer by talking to her in person and by that I mean asking her out one on one not over a text."

Scarlett rolled her eyes responding,

"So that means what?"

Jana laughed watching Scarlett pick at her food replying,

"You need to give it a few days to a week for anything to happen."

Scarlett slumped down in her seat responding,

"Great just great everyone wanted me to find true love and when I do I have to wait."

Jana chuckled replying,

"Girl, you have a long way to go to find true love this is one woman not multiple dates."

Scarlett crossed her arms over her chest responding,

"What do you expect me to do until then? I am sure my mom and Angelique will be contacting me soon to come help with my brother even though I am so far from home at the moment."

Jana patted Scarlett's arm's replying,

"Until then you can enjoy time to yourself or spend time with me."

Scarlett jumped out of her chair responding,

"I am going to see Amanda now because we live to far away as it is to have me wait on my intuition to be with her."

Jana sighed leaving Scarlett to her ways of getting a woman. Scarlett grabbed her phone rushing to Spencer's at that moment she ran smacked into Amanda with a smile saying,

"What a nice surprise to see you again."

Scarlett chuckled positioning herself just right replying,

"You too, I was coming to see you anyways."

Amanda blushed responding,

"How delightful as I am getting my lunch since I didn't bring any today."

Scarlett reached across touching Amanda's shoulder replying,

"Get you're lunch and come sit with me and my friend Jana."

Amanda shook her head no responding,

"I can't unfortunately because I have to be back at my store but if you would like we can go to dinner tonight?"

Scarlett sighed heavily replying,

"I am from Roseland which is several hours from here."

Amanda kissed her cheek gently responding,

"We will figure out something got to believe in one another."

Scarlett blushed replying,

"We will see each other again. Go enjoy you're lunch and have a great rest of the day."

Amanda touched Scarlett's cheek nodding to leave with one last response,

"I will wait for time between us love."

Scarlett pressed her cheek against Amanda's hand than felt her hand remove holding in her deep breath as Jana came up behind her saying,

"I have never seen you so in love like you have with Amanda a moment ago. You didn't fall in love in you're past life?"

Scarlett shook her head no replying,

"That is why I destroyed Angel making her Annabel to resemble my first love."

Jana shook her head no back and forth responding,

"Well, I guess if this to correct you're life, this will be it."

Scarlett smiled with jitters along her body replying,

"I wonder if positively she'll be my future back in twenty-ten when I was a teenager instead of Annabel. I hope I can change this curse too."

Jana shrugged her shoulder's responding,

"We will see but we better get home, you're mom texted about thirty minutes ago wondering when you'd be home."

Scarlett sighed replying,

"True, I can't believe I am twenty-four and I still live with them."

Jana had both of their purses as they both left the mall without another conversation about Amanda or home life back in Roseland but it was so beautiful to be at Grandville, to meet a beautiful woman whose stole her heart with one conversation.

## Chapter 20

They arrived back in Roseland as Andrea waited by the front door tapping her foot saying,

"What took you both so long? It is near seven p.m. And you were quite a ways from home."

Scarlett couldn't sit still on the way home she had excitement all over her body she finally replied,

"We went to Grandville, visited River Town Crossings it is a beautiful location."

Andrea shook her head responding,

"Me and Angelique will be heading to bed in a couple hours, we need you to listen for Lance, understand?"

Scarlett nodded replying,

"Yes mom."

She hugged Jana goodbye than went inside with her head down than Angelique gave her hug and kiss on her cheek saying,

"Glad you are home, safe and sound. Did you have fun?"

Scarlett nodded yes responding,

"Sure did. I met a woman too, she is so beautiful and I can't wait for you all to meet her."

Angelique chuckled replying,

"Honey, you can't be in love with this woman already, that is near impossible."

Scarlett shrugged responding,

"I knew that."

Scarlett went around Angelique going to her room with not saying another word about Amanda. She needed to sleep, she felt so exhausted.

*

Scarlett woke back up in the hospital she must've been dreaming again as Hannah smiled saying,

"Hello sleepy head. Welcome back to reality. Whoever that Amanda girl is must be wonderful."

Scarlett rubbed her eyes replying,

"How is it that I have gone from twenty-thirty back to twenty-nineteen, I don't get it?"

Hannah chuckled responding,

"You have a wild imagination. You never went anywhere been here the whole time."

Scarlett sighed replying,

"Did you sleep with you're boss?"

Hannah laughed out loud responding,

"I am married to my boss but what does that have to do with now?"

Scarlett shrugged replying,

"Nothing."

Hannah smiled checking her vitals again though Scarlett spoke,

"How long had I slept this time?"

Hannah touched her shoulder replying,

"A couple weeks, you're mom came and saw you but she didn't know how bad off you were."

Scarlett sighed responding,

"Did she have a African american with her?"

Hannah shook her head no replying,

"Not that I saw but she seemed very lonely."

Scarlett nodded understanding, so that meant she didn't have a brother yet or even a step mom. Hannah left the room leaving the curtain open to see she had a neighbor next to her a small fragile woman that seemed to be deathly ill, the woman's cough came out badly and she spoke to Scarlett,

"You are a beautiful young lady. I remember being so young. Why are you here?"

Scarlett shrugged replying,

"I am not completely sure to be honest."

The elderly woman nodded responding,

"I am Gretchen and you are?"

Scarlett gave a small smile replying,

"I am Scarlett."

Gretchen nodded again responding,

"Pleasure to meet you. I am in here because I am dying slowly from natural causes."

Scarlett frowned replying,

"I am so sorry."

Gretchen coughed badly again than closed her eyes. Hannah came in the room once more closing the curtain saying,

"Before you fall asleep again if you do that is. You aren't cursed but sadly you are dying of cancer. We have only been letting you sleep due to the pain and everything else. We have been giving you chemo medication to relax every tension of you're body."

Scarlett had a tear fall down her face replying,

"What kind of cancer?"

Hannah bowed her head shuffling her feet responding,

"Leukemia, it is a blood-forming tissue, hindering the body's ability to fight infection."

Scarlett wiped her eyes replying,

"Does my mom and friends know?"

Hannah nodded yes responding,

"It wasn't you or Angel's fault or anyone else's but you only have a few weeks left to live."

Scarlett shook her head no replying,

"I am not destined to live longer."

Hannah shook her head no than left the room though Scarlett wasn't sure how to take the information, she wanted to meet Amanda and be with her though she didn't even know where she was or anything at the moment besides a hospital.

## Epilogue

Scarlett passed on silently in her sleep though it is dreadful, she didn't have a reason to live on anymore her heart been ripped to shed though Angel Knight got back her life and remarried to Harley Quincy since Jana Johnson married Tamera Wormwood. Scarlett did fight to survive longer though her clock was ticking even when time went on.

Though Scarlett passed on August, Twenty-Third, Two Thousand Ten her legacy lived on Angel forgave Scarlett for the agony that she endured during their time together. Scarlett never had a child or children either, she lived life happily by herself.

Rest In Peace

November 6th,1988 to August 23rd,2010

Scarlett Myra Thomas

*

Beginning of hope for now Angel , Jana, Jonathan and Avery will begin in book three since I have no idea how the start of it will go this is where I leave off for the next book. We will look into Jonathan Bowman and Luther Eckert life along with Avery Bowman and Brianna Grier. Prepare for another twist,romance and life.

Introducing a new book series called Gothic Princess and Angel to be out later this year.

Here is a sneak peek into book one called Dreams Of A Angel:

Since the beginning of time there has been good versus evil, light versus darkness. But sometimes, the two come together and create a beautiful love, for which, there is no equal. A love that is intense, beautiful and dangerous. Can you imagine for one second that you are a beautiful Princess and everyone at your heels to seek attention? This is where it all began for Princess Tessa Jones in her Kingdom of Evigon.

Princess Tessa didn't need help looking beautiful with long black straight hair, dark purple dresses with corset's that swallowed her figure, dark green eyes, standing at five feet eight inches and one hundred thirty pounds. She always wore white stockings with her dark purple heels. She grabbed her dark purple satin cape then opened her wooden door from her room turning to face one of her guards Larkin Malachi, he had dirty blonde hair, blue eyes, standing six feet tall, weighing about one hundred twenty pounds.

Tessa cleared her throat saying,

"Larkin, I need you to take me to my father."

Larkin bowed guiding her to where her father King Xavier Jones and Queen Deanna Jones, they were in the throne room. Evigon had a symbol with a black dragon,deep blood red background and a black rim for them to stick out. The throne room within view Tessa placed her hand on Larkin's shoulder saying,

"I got it from here, wait outside the door."

He bowed letting her go in than stood by the door as Tessa walked across the floor to her father saying,

"What did you need father?"

The king stood up from where he was in his medal chair replying,

"My sweet princess, glad you are here, I need to discuss marriage with you."

Tessa placed her hands in front of her bowing to her father responding,

"Yes sir, you told me that since I am now sixteen that I have to find a husband."

He nodded walking down the couple of steps placing his hands on her shoulder's replying,

"You need to be able to find a Prince within our following Kingdom's. I am sending you to Kingdom Chirene to meet Prince Kieffer Dion, he will be meeting you by horse near his Castle along with his father and mother. You are to be respectful and listening. Understood?"

Tessa nodded replying,

"Yes sir."

Xavier kissed her cheek responding,

"You will have two days with Kieffer if he doesn't meet my standard's by any means, you will be sent back here urgently. You will be in separate room with everything you need. Kieffer has been told not to disturb you at night. I will see you when you return, go pack you're bags."

Tessa bowed than off she went to go back to her room to pack her bags for her trip to meet a Prince. Larkin tapped Tessa on the shoulder as they headed back to her room saying,

"Princess, not to alarm you but did I hear the King say you are going to meet Prince Kieffer?"

Tessa turned around smiling replying,

"Yes, daddy said I can meet him and be with him for two days. Why?"

Larkin got down on one knee breathing heavily looking at Tessa with love responding,

"I want to give you this ring to ask you're hand in marriage. Will you marry me Princess Tessa Jones of Evigon?"

Tessa blushed fanning her tears away with her mother and father standing in the doorway with a frown shaking their head's no disapproving of their Guard of ever marrying their Princess. Tessa looked down at Larkin loving the way he looked and with a sheepish smile awaiting her answer than looking at her parent's again as they kept shaking their heads no. Tessa looked down at the ring, seeing it perfectly gleaming at her but she had closed the box saying,

"I am sorry Larkin, I can't."

Tessa ran to her room with tears falling hard from her eyes at that moment she hated her parent's making her waste such a wonderful man's honest loving heart, they were best of friends. Tessa wasn't going to see Kieffer and had declined her first proposal which tore her apart. King Xavier came pounding on her bedroom door saying,

"You better answer this door."

Tessa crawled out of bed, walking to the door than opening it revealing her pissed off father saying,

"What is the matter with you?"

Tessa turned around walking to her bed replying,

"I want to marry Larkin but you and mom deny me of such love."

Xavier growled at her responding,

"You two having sex?"

Tessa raised a brow at her father replying,

"What? No...we have been seeing each other though, having lunch together on the lawn and enjoying time with one another."

Xavier's eye twitch holding in his fuse than let out a yell. Xavier pointed a finger at Tessa responding,

"I am going to kill your lover, you better say goodbye to your precious boyfriend. I told you time and time again that you weren't to fall in love with a guard in our Kingdom and you disobeyed me."

Tessa felt more tears fall replying,

"No, no...daddy please..don't."

Xavier stomped across her floor than grabbed her by the throat responding,

"I am and you can't do anything about it, Larkin is dead, YOU HEAR ME DEAD!"

Xavier tossed her body on the bed as she felt herself cry, she knew her mother would be next to punish her for being in love with Larkin. Tessa heard her door flew open at that moment to see Larkin coming to her saying,

"Princess, I am so sorry, please we have to run away from here."

Tessa shook her head no replying,

"My dad is already going to have you're head there is no where to run to."

Larkin sat down next to her wringing his hands responding,

"I wish they would realize our love but I know there is nothing I can do."

Tessa sat up holding his hands replying,

"I am a Princess, we don't get choices like normal beings."

Larkin took a deep breath looking at Tessa seeing her deep green eyes responding,

"I must go, do know I love you."

Tessa kissed his cheek replying,

"I love you too."

Larkin left without another word leaving Tessa to her thoughts.
