## **Contents**

Title Page

Copyright

Dedication

About This Book

CHAPTER ONE - Amy

CHAPTER TWO - Mavin

CHAPTER THREE - Amy

CHAPTER FOUR - Mavin

CHAPTER FIVE - Amy

CHAPTER SIX - Mavin

CHAPTER SEVEN - Amy

CHAPTER EIGHT - Mavin

CHAPTER NINE - Amy

CHAPTER TEN - Mavin

About the Author

Sneak Peek of Sinth Seeker

SINTH SAVIOR

By Pearl Tate

Copyright © 2020 Pearl Tate

All rights reserved.

No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without written permission from the author, except for the use of brief quotations in a book review.

This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, businesses, places, events and incidents are either the products of the author's imagination or used in a fictitious manner.

Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, or actual events is purely coincidental.

Book Cover Design by Alena Marie

Website: http://pearltate.com/BookCovers

Instagram Account: http://pearltate.com/covers

This book is dedicated to my birds who keep me company and listen to me read my second pass out loud to them.

SINTH SAVIOR

Amy

My mind won't accept I've been abducted by aliens!

I'm staying overnight in my car at Yosemite when the strange, teal light illuminates me. Next thing I know, I wake up after my kidnapping in a cage with three other people. Everything outside the bars is pink and red on the foreign planet, and I don't feel very well ...

When I spot a beautiful man, glittering through my feverish haze in front of me, I'm unsure if he's my captor here to claim me or a hero who plans to rescue me. With how awful I feel ... maybe he's an angel sent to guide me into my next world?

Mavin

I'm assigned as a Guardian to this boring alien planet, watching the ongoing catastrophe unfold as the extraterrestrial contagion wars with and invades the native species ...

It's not like my Sinth Sovereignty superiors can ground me anywhere else in space more apocalyptic since there is no cure! With that in mind, I'll check the feeding stations on Teleplay exactly where and when I want. I won't go rouge, but it doesn't have to be all by the book—all the time.

I'll never get out of here to discover new things if I don't follow my gut and take some chances. I can't explain why I feel as though I'm being drawn to this building ... as if there's something demanding my attention and waiting to be discovered.

When I stumble into my first contact with contraband Earth Humans, my premonition makes more sense. But what isn't as clear, is why despite the Wen virus racing through their bodies, the female of the species calls to me on a primal, almost barbarian level I don't understand, inspiring instant lust and a desire to claim her.

Also, she appears to see me ... even when I'm sure I've phased into my own dimension.

After reporting them to their alien protectors the Ashen, can I leave her here to die? Especially if there's even the remotest possibility she could be my fated mate?

CHAPTER ONE

\- Amy

Well, this is definitely not how I planned on spending my evening. I'm hanging out in the backseat of my car somewhere in the outskirts of Yosemite National Park—because I'm a chicken. What's the matter with me? Why can't I be better at facing things head-on?

When my waste-of-space boyfriend told me earlier tonight that he'd managed to get a job, I was shocked. For real? He's been looking for only five ... no, almost six months now.

Under a blanket that's way too short to cover my feet, I shift and try to escape the bump in the middle of the seat so that it isn't right in my mid-back, but it seems to follow me. The backseat isn't comfortable, and neither am I. I wouldn't be here if I could just address things like a grown-up.

To say Brad and I had a little blowout is definitely putting it mildly. Why is it that men always expect you to just up and relocate for them? Why is it that their careers are always first or more important?

Yeah, I don't have a "career" per se ... but that doesn't mean that when he gets a job halfway across the country I'm going to move. Come on!

From the floorboards to my right, I hear the preset ringtone for Brad chime from inside my purse. It only takes a second for me to snatch my cellphone out and see the cute photo of us from when we visited a vineyard last summer. My friend Samantha took it for us when we went on a double date tour together. With loving smiles on our faces, the snapshot portrays a couple head over heels in love, which is such a crock of shit and unrealistic reality.

"Yes?" I say, answering the call and trying my damnedest not to sound as tired as I feel. The hours often fluctuate at my temp job depending on which office I'm filling in for, and this week has been no different. For some reason, concrete companies think office hours are six thirty to three.

"Where are you, Amy?" Brad's initial sigh of relief after hearing my voice quickly turns sour as his anger ramps up—again. "Why're you doing this? You had to know there was a real possibility I'd have to relocate for work."

Did I? Oh, yeah. Of course, I did.

I was actually kind of thankful for that, and I'd been crossing my fingers that his relocation would be sooner rather than later. "Yes." Mindful of the quiet forest I'm parked in, my voice is a whisper. Most national parks have signs saying camping only in designated areas, and I'm definitely not in one of them.

"So, what's the problem?" Over the phone, I can hear Brad pouring himself a drink as he waits for my answer. I notice the telltale clink of ice before the clatter of a bottle, likely the Crown he had picked up to 'celebrate,' against a table ... or countertop ... or nightstand ... Wherever he happens to be while his personal party continues.

"There's not really a problem ..." My voice wavers and drifts off. What the fuck is wrong with me? This is my chance to air it all. He can't find me right now, and he'll be gone within days. "It's just ... I never agreed that I'd go wherever your employment took you. I'm not ready for that next step in our relationship—"

"Living together? We already live together, Amy." I hate how he repeats my name over and over when he's drunk ... or mad at me ... or in this case, probably both ...

Taking a deep breath, I finally let out all the frustration at his controlling nature. "I know. And I thought I'd be okay with that—"

"Thought you'd be okay with that? Amy, really?" Brad roars, and I can envision the spit shooting out of his mouth.

This is exactly what I hate. It doesn't matter what "it" is. If it isn't Brad's way, it's wrong.

As he continues ranting, I realize even though he started the call relatively calm and honestly wanting to know what's going on in my head, he really doesn't.

He may even think he wants to know, but from the nastiness he's spewing now, he's just drunk. Not even bothering to wait for him to finish, I cut in, stating, "Maybe I'll talk to you tomorrow," before hanging up.

Fuck me. I'm the one with red hair. You'd think I'd be the hot-head, but Brad takes the cake.

Before he calls me back, I dial my friend Jen who's been waiting for this call for months.

She immediately answers, saying, "Did you do it? Tell me you did it ... Amy, you did it, right?"

Rolling my eyes, I don't let her presumptuousness put me out. She's right. She's always right.

"Yes, but what if I hadn't? And before you say it, let me just add on ... you're right."

"Thank you." I roll to my side, trying to get more comfortable, as I wait for her to continue. "Are you okay, though?" Her sincere voice is quiet in my ear, and the stark difference between her and Brad's tone confirms again I'm making the right decision by ending it with him.

Taking a moment, I consider her question. She's the one who told me three months ago she'd seen Brad out with another woman. I could have questioned him on it, but why?

By that time, I already knew things weren't the way I wanted them to be long-term.

And don't get me wrong, either. Jen said they weren't just having a business dinner or something casual. There was kissing and groping, and it was very clear there was some kind of relationship going on.

Part of the problem is that I don't have anywhere to go but home with my father. I do need to go back to pick up some of my belongings and memories of my mother, who passed when I was young, but staying for any length of time is out of the question. Who wants to do that? Moving back in with my just remarried parent and his new wife and her kids. No, thanks.

"Yes, I'm okay. I'm more than okay ... I'm relieved." Closing my eyes, I let my body relax and sink into the bench seat in the back of my old Dodge. This isn't that bad. I'll be able to sleep.

There's silence for a few more moments before Jen asks, "Where are you? I mean ... it's kind of quiet."

Laughing softly, I have to agree. Living with Brad has been anything but quiet. He's a talker. And yeller. "I'm parked out in the woods at Yosemite. I'm going to crash here for the night, but I was hoping—"

"Of course! You should've come right over. I told you anytime." Her sincere reassurance helps my body relax even more. She really did mean it.

"I know, but I don't want to step on your toes—or Ken's." My voice goes up questioningly. This is the real crux of the issue. Her husband is wonderful, but he's sick. Really sick.

Suffering from cancer, he's in his second round of chemo, and neither one of them needs my juvenile drama. Ken needs quiet and sleep and certainly not me banging on the door in the middle of the night. They live about forty-five minutes away in Fresno, so when I left the house near midnight, I knew I didn't want to drive all the way over there tonight.

"Oh, I have a temp job bright and early tomorrow morning," I tell her. "It's Friday and my last day. They wouldn't be impressed if I didn't show."

"Ah. Okay. So, I'll see you after work tomorrow?" Jen's hopeful tone lets me know she could use me right now just as much as I need her. I can't imagine what she's going through, watching the man she loves and pledged her life to suffer and get weaker every day.

"For sure. And it might be earlier than you'd expect." I yawn loudly as I explain. "I'll be done by three, so I can be there around four or so. Is that cool?"

"Yes. Actually, I can't wait." Jen's voice drops as she admits what I've suspected over the last six weeks. "I miss you. It's been ... hard." Her voice breaks as she grinds out what I'm sure has been difficult to admit. It just makes me feel worse that I haven't been there for her. For support and to be the friend she needs right now.

"I'm sorry. I've been so sucked up in this bullshit with Brad—"

"No, no. I don't mean to make you feel bad—"

"But, it's true. And it's so silly. I don't know why I don't have the balls to just break up with him. I'm such a putz."

Jen laughs softly, and I know she's trying to keep it down and not wake up her husband. I should let her go. I'm sure she's up when he is, fixing him whatever he can tolerate to eat and keep down. Helping him get better.

"Listen, you go to bed, and I'll see you tomorrow. How about I bring us dinner?"

"Crazy Mike's?" Jen doesn't hide her excitement at the prospect of our favorite fast food chain. It's about fifteen miles outside of the city, so I'm sure she doesn't get out there very often.

"For sure!" I can picture her doing a happy dance as she squeals softly over the phone. "Let me let you go, and just leave me a voicemail if you think of anything else you want me to bring, okay? This firm I'm working for is not flexible about personal calls."

"Sounds good. I will, and drive safe, okay? And Amy ... I love you. I'm so proud you're leaving him."

Not bothering to correct her—because, I mean technically, he's leaving me. Instead, I murmur, "Love you, too," before ending our call. I can explain it to her tomorrow. Jen's my best friend, and she'll forgive me.

Sitting up and folding the sweater I was using as a pillow, a strange glow out the front window catches my eye. It's blue and not a nice sky blue. No, this is a grating, neon teal blue and it's beginning to flash over the tops of the trees. I can't see what's making it because I'm not in the front seat, but I watch as the lights crawl slowly down the trunks and leaves in front of me.

Swiveling in the seat and peering through the rear window, I try to confirm that what I'm seeing isn't just a cop car or something with its flashing lights on behind me. Except for the same flashing reflection high above, I don't see anything that could be causing it. For some reason, I'm suddenly afraid. What could it be?

A helicopter? Who'd be out here trying to land a helicopter in a heavily forested area like this?

I roll over onto the floorboard and try to flatten out and hide, but as soon as I do, the entire car floods with light. Bright light. Like daylight.

I can't see anything outside the car now, but no sooner does my tired, overactive imagination register that fact, then there's a big flash of green, my ears pop, and everything goes dark.

CHAPTER TWO

\- Mavin

A high-pitched screech echoes against the canyon walls, pulling my attention from the squat buildings used for food trade storage. I watch a pulkay take down a mik. Both animals look evil with their milky eyes and with drool covering their lower faces.

Turning away with disgust, I glance around at the waste surrounding me. I can remember when this planet was beautiful—and healthy. It wasn't even that long ago. Maybe fifty of the planet's annual rotations around its sun.

I was one of the original investigators to the contamination on Teleplay. This planet has developed into a cautionary tale of what can go wrong—and just how quickly. All it took was a stupid Fakel bringing a Wen along for the ride while he was trolling new planets for gal.

Gal is valuable in almost every solar system due to its unique properties of conducting power and discovering the mineral will make you rich. I can understand why it was tempting to take along a Wen, since they have their own uncanny affinity to the ore, but if you do that—this dying planet is what you end up with.

The Wen's bodies excrete a biological off-gas that bonds with other life forms. It doesn't kill them immediately. No, it changes them. Like the pulkay and mik. Two animals that should never be interested in each other.

Most species don't realize just how perfectly balanced many of these small, inhabited planets are. You can't just start shuffling in and out of them and not think you'll disrupt the balance in the ecosystem. When you do, you end up with the mess here.

"Mavin, report," Trus's demand fires clearly through my communicator.

"I'm at food trade storage station three," I answer as I glance up again at the short building that's more of a temporary cage than anything else. I've been ignoring the pull to this place my entire shift, but I just can't any longer.

Once the planet was contaminated, there was no point in not bringing the Wen here to locate more gal. Of course, the asshole who originally contaminated Teleplay knew what he was doing. He got off with just a fine—a fine he was able to completely pay off in his first month's profit. Not much of an incentive to never do it again.

"Three?" My partner and best friend, Trus, sounds as puzzled as I feel. I can't explain why I'm here. Something has drawn me, but I've never felt anything like it before.

"It's a hunch." That's the best I can do to explain why I'm here. I figure it can't hurt to look around. At this point, I can't even contemplate not going around the building to review the trade feed brought in. It's a constant cycle for the Wen, who have an insatiable appetite.

The contaminate they transfer is a necessary evil for them to survive. Not only does it make them compatible to mate with each other, and it's a natural part of their metabolic cycle, but the off-gas we call the Wen virus also begins the process of breaking down their potential food sources so they can consume them. It's just an unfortunate side-effect that it's so potent and almost always makes prey out of the sentient beings exposed to it.

"Check in after your review and swap out at nineteen perlay." Trus logs our agreed shift change time, always following the rules—as usual. I'm sure if he'd felt the pull I did, he would ignore it. But even now, I can't stop my feet from walking to the building that's open on one side and enclosed on the other.

Already, I can see many familiar life forms in the contaminated section that are almost ready to be transferred to the release side. Once the Wen virus really kicks in, it's best to release the animals to roam, or they'll start to eat each other. The off-gas changes its victims to a sub-category form of the Wen, and they become slower and, for all intents and purposes, practically dead. The victims don't remember their former selves. At least, that's what I've been told by the scientists we have on Sinth.

When this planet was contaminated, our scientific teams ran through all the possibilities to try and save it. The Wen themselves will likely never develop to a point where they'll have space travel and be able to get off their planet, Kaa, naturally. They just aren't that smart. More opportunistic. We never thought someone would be stupid enough to take one off their planet.

But you know what they say—greed will make even the wisest man into an idiot. Not long before this contamination occurred, the Wen's planet received a lot of notoriety for studies done on the creatures. Our scientists were trying to recreate the Wen homing capabilities into technology, and the story was picked up due to the escalating prices of gal across the solar system.

That's all it took.

Despite how clearly it was documented that the Wen virus is almost one hundred percent contagious, other alien species still took the chance of going to Kaa. Hundreds died with more than one fool killing their entire space crew when they climbed back on board. Another mess for the Sinth to clean up.

For whatever reason, we don't catch diseases. They're literally purged from our system every time we phase into our dimension. It's just the way we're made. As one of the few species who can do this, we have a biological advantage that most don't.

Nearing the building, I walk along the outside of the contaminated section and see all types of life forms, crying out in their own crude ways. Due to the species translator implant all Sinth have in conjunction with their communicators, I'm able to understand the futile pleas. All basic and rudimentary, of course.

"Help," "sick," and "get out" are the most common. If a species is capable of more than that, they won't be here. The Coalition is clear on what level of comprehension constitutes the difference between being qualified as trade for food or the other end of the scale—captured as a slave, even if they're sold for food consumption.

Most of the animals here are almost past communication capabilities, but as I move deeper into the section and walk down the center aisle between the rows of cages, more coherent cries are translated. The virus hasn't yet eaten their brain to the point that pleas are impossible.

But their pleas are not why I'm here. Something is pulling me to the back right of the building. Something strong, leaving me with the feeling of anticipation as if a long-awaited holiday has finally arrived. Without warning, my skin prickles and my breathing accelerates. It's a fine line between excitement and fear as I reach the back corner pen and look in on the square view opening to the new arrivals.

I blink in horror as I see several of a species that looks eerily similar to the Sinth. Extremely close, except for the coloring. This species appears to have beige skin while ours is a pale grey.

They all appear much further along in exposure than I'd expect from their location in the building, but maybe that's because they shouldn't be here at all. Quickly, I access my communicator to flick through the closest humanoid species with similar characteristics. My eyes are drawn to one of the species in captivity with fiery red hair and pale, pink skin. It's female. That's easy to see, but I'm horrified too, noticing that the humanoid species' home planet is in the Ashen's zone and under their protection.

This is bad. Maybe that's why I've had this pull to come review the arrivals in this building? Not that I've ever had that help me before. Actually, the opposite, since one of my previous hunches landed my partner and me on this boring assignment.

Unfortunately, there's not much that can be done for the contaminated beings at this point. The three other males in the holding area with the female are clearly infected, and as I study her more closely, I see hints of grey in the shiny locks of her hair.

Just as I'm about to open up my communicator to document what I've found, the red haired female opens her eyes. Looking at me directly, she whispers, "Are you real?" Swallowing with difficulty, no doubt from the lack of proper hydration offered in these holding areas, she asks, "Are you an angel?"

CHAPTER THREE

\- Amy

A strange mechanical sound brings me back to consciousness. There's a shifting underneath me, followed by a bang on the floor. I feel as if an earthquake is rattling my surroundings. The dim light filtering through my lashes doesn't show me much as I throw my arm over my face to shield my eyes in the crook of my elbow.

"She's coming around." An unfamiliar male voice filters through my confusion as I try to pull myself together enough to look around.

"Lucky her." The dry response from another deep voice makes me wonder what the hell is going on. Did I pass out somewhere?

"I wish I could go back to sleep and not wake up." There's an odd scraping noise before I manage to open my eyes.

As I do, I'm startled by the pink scenery outside of what can only be described as bars. From my position lying flat on the hard floor, I push myself up a little by my elbows and stare in shock outside. The sky is pink. So are the leaves in the forest not far away, only a darker shade. More fuchsia. There isn't any grass, only some almost black-colored scruff popping up here and there between the cage I'm in and the forest about five hundred feet away.

Grunting, I pull myself up more, thankful for the strong arm that's slung behind my back. "Thanks." My voice comes out a whisper in my dry throat.

"Just relax, and when you're ready, you can go over there and get a drink." Glancing back at the slight man behind me, I look past him to where he's gesturing. A metal tube, ending with an odd cap, travels halfway down from the ceiling along the side wall. It's a far cry from the glass water cooler I was expecting.

My eyebrows shoot up, and the man shrugs and removes his arm from around my shoulders and stands up beside me. "Reminds me a little of being in a hamster cage, but it's clean and tastes all right."

Placing my hands flat on the floor, I notice the strange texture under my palms—like sand or some kind of litter—as I try to push up onto my feet. "Where are we?" My throat cracks, clicking uncomfortably. I quickly give up on trying to stand since my legs feel like jelly. Instead, I crawl over to the strange water tube and look at it, puzzled.

"Like this," The man who helped me sit up walks over and crouches down next to me, pressing on the rubber end slightly. A bubble of water squeezes out of a hole I didn't notice. "Just stick your face on it. We all have, and I'm sure you're dying of thirst."

I glance around at the other two men in the fairly small cage with me. One, standing by the bars facing outside, nods before turning to look back out again. Okay, then.

Scratching my head, I look at the water dispenser. At first, I try to put my lips on the tip of the wide rubber end, but the material suctions to me and catches on my dry, chapped lips, and rips open the corner of my mouth. Licking the area gingerly, I taste blood. Great!

When that doesn't work, I end up opening my mouth wide and wrap my lips around the whole end to suck. Fuck them. I'm really thirsty.

While I drink, the man who helped me introduces himself. "I'm Hank. This is Tom and Kevin," he said, nodding first to a larger man leaning against a wall across the cage from us and then to the man staring out at the wasteland. "We've all just woken up in the last hour or so. Not long ago anyways. This cell or crate or whatever it is, seems to be on some kind of conveyor system. Did you feel that earlier?"

Taking a break from drinking, I nod, remembering the strange shaking that jostled me awake. "Yeah. We aren't moving now, but I woke up first and that was what did it for me, too. I don't know what this place is, but it sure isn't Earth," Hank said.

Startled, I look out the other side more carefully. Sure, the coloring is odd, but I just assumed it was me or where we were or something. Not that we weren't on Earth! That's crazy talk, right?

"Are you sure?" My voice is stronger now as I look down at the leggings and t-shirt I'm wearing. They don't look too bad, but the crud on the bottom of this container sticks to you just like sand. Carefully, I climb to my feet. Stiffness in my neck and back make me groan as I straighten, putting both hands on my lower back to stretch.

"Oh, yeah. I'm sure." The heavyset, older gentleman with a buzz cut said without turning around.

"That's Kevin," Hank explains. "He says that he worked for a private subcontractor for the government, and that he knows there's space travel, aliens, and life on other planets. He thinks that we've been sent somewhere ..." As he trails off, he looks at me almost apologetically.

So, he isn't necessarily buying it either. "I'm Amy." Sticking out my hand, we shake briefly.

Kevin turns around and glances at Hank and me releasing hands but doesn't offer his own. "Yeah, well, Hank. Amy." He nods tightly at us. "You're welcome to doubt it all you want, but how do you explain that?" He flips a thumb over his shoulder, gesturing to the pink sky and trees in emphasis of his point.

That is convincing, I have to admit. My whole body throbs as I lean back onto the wall with the water tube, one of only two solid walls, and slide down onto my butt again.

"We all feel like crap." Hank slides down next to me, his body shaking the floor slightly as he lands. I rub the heel of my sneaker through the debris on the floor, confirming it's solid metal beneath me.

"Is there any way out?" I ask hopefully, causing all of them to turn and look at me as if I'm stupid.

"To where?" Hank says.

"Yeah. There isn't a pay phone over there you can use to have someone come pick you up. We have to sit tight and see what they plan to do with us." Kevin turns back around, ignoring us, but Hank doesn't move as Tom starts sliding down the wall across from us.

Tom's a big man and by big, I mean fat. Sweat has discolored the front of his light blue t-shirt around the collar and under the arms. Swiping his hand across his forehead, he swears profusely before adding, "I don't feel so good."

I have to agree. I feel nauseous, and I'm not sure if it's from all the water I drank or what. I take a good look around the small space. It's only about ten feet square with two sides open, one of which faces out into the pink landscape. The other faces the interior of the building and through it I can see another cage just like ours across the aisle.

"Where's the bathroom?" I try to keep my tone light, but inside I'm panicking. There are three men in this tiny space with me. They can pee out the bars. How long could someone plan to keep us like this anyways? And why?

Hank points toward a corner, adding, "Thankfully, this stuff on the floor does seem to knock down the smell because Tom went over there earlier."

My face must show my horror. Tom gives a jaded laugh as he rubs his stomach. "That might get added to soon. I really don't feel well." I must admit he looks like shit.

No one says anything else, and I just need to wake up more so I can focus. This feels like a dream—or a nightmare. Am I really awake?

"I was ..." Where was I? Oh, right. Duh. I was sleeping in my car. "... in Yosemite ... camping. Where were you?" I ask the men.

Tom doesn't even bother to look up at me from where he's sitting. I rest my head on the wall and turn to look at Hank. He's staring at me with a blank expression.

After a good minute, I've given up on hearing an answer when he finally says, "I was on a fishing trip. I haven't been on one in almost three years." He turns to look out the garish scenery. "I guess I'm not fishing this year either."

"I'm a truck driver." Hank and I both look at Tom. He crawls across the floor to the water tube next to us. "I stopped in Clovis outside Fresno at a truck stop." He sits down by the water tube, pointing up at the rubber end. "What if there's something in this? Maybe that's why we feel like fucking horseshit?"

"Don't be so dramatic." Kevin says, continuing to stand still and stare out at the pink scenery. "There are so many reasons why we could be feeling so sick. The air might not be the same ratio of gases as Earth. It's not exactly a lush planet. Maybe whatever's killing everything out there is what's killing us? The water is the one thing that's going to make this more bearable because I can't imagine living here with you three for any length of time."

Without another word, he finally turns around and steps in front of all of us to get some water. I know that I need to wake up more. My head still feels fuzzy, and I'm having trouble focusing on the men. They bicker about something else that seems pointless for a while, so I tune them out, which is surprisingly easy considering the close quarters.

\---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

"Amy?" My name is called several more times before I finally give in and respond.

"Yes?"

"You should get a drink. You've been sleeping for a long time."

The lighting does seem a little dimmer, but nothing looks totally different. What does surprise me is the noise. Sitting up quickly, I freeze as a crying sound starts up again nearby. "Is that a baby?"

Who'd do that? Hank doesn't respond right away, and I peer at him closely. I don't know him that well, but his eyes appear sunken with dark smudges underneath. His eyes themselves are milky looking. Still brown in color—just lighter and similar to how older people's eyes are. Maybe cataracts?

"I honestly don't know, but I don't think it's a baby. There have been a lot of strange animal sounds, and I think what you're hearing is just one of them crying."

I swallow, trying to decide if what he's saying could be true. I still feel disorientated, but this is the second time I've woken up here. I'm not dreaming. This is real.

"Come on." Gesturing to the wall, Hank sticks a hand out in front of my face. "Let me help you get a drink."

\---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There's a loud buzzing in my ears as a pleasant vibration dances along my skin. Mmm, yes. That's very nice.

Smiling, I crack open my eyes and roll onto my back, but something hard keeps me from laying out completely flat to my left. When I look up, I see the most beautiful man looking down at me. He's so light, though. Almost see through ... "Are you real?"

As he steps back, his body shimmers, fading lighter, then darker. His body is black and white compared to the techno-pink backdrop of the alien landscape. He shimmers, becoming almost transparent again, and I can't help but think it's like the Predator movies.

Or maybe I'm already dead. "Are you an angel?"

CHAPTER FOUR

\- Mavin

My heart stops as the red headed female looks at me. She is looking at me. Incredible.

Most species don't notice us unless we stop right in front of them and address them. This seems to snap us into their reality. But not this female. I'm still outside her pen, but even now, her eyes are tracking me as I take a step back and to the left.

Groaning slightly, her eyes flutter closed. Phasing into my dimension, I shift into their holding pen. There are three males and this one female.

Slowly, remaining in my dimension, I walk around the tight space in between their bodies. The males are all much larger, and I notice that two of them appear older, if weight and greying hair are indicators of that process in their species.

One of them is almost completely turned and in the deep sleep of the transition. The other two males are still shifting uncomfortably on the bedding on the floor, restless like the female. They're uncomfortable and, from the looks of it, dreaming. Only the female opens her eyes again, looking around as if she's searching for me.

Ignoring her, I crouch down over the one in transition, phasing in just enough to lift his lids. The milky orb's pupil is about half the size of the females. If the caretakers don't shuffle them, there's a good chance this one will start consuming the others while they're transitioning.

Standing up, I place my hands on my hips and shake my head. Why would someone take the chance of angering the Ashen by sending some of their protected to be consumed like common feed by the Wen working here? Especially on a backwater planet like this? Could the Ashen know and have approved of this?

I'll need to report the situation immediately. With that thought in mind, I move toward the interior of the building, when I hear the sweet, high voice of the female say, "Don't leave ..."

Freezing, I wait. She can't possibly see me. I'm phased. Sure, not completely because I want to see where I am here and get in and out of their cage, but she still shouldn't be able to see me.

When I take another step away, I hear something that breaks my heart. If it was frozen before when I held my breath, it's now crumbling into a million pieces as she begins to sob.

"Please ... please ... I don't know who you are, but something is wrong here. Did ... did you do this?"

Her accusation has me swinging around, angry and in shock. She thinks I'd have anything to do with the horror happening here? Sentient beings, clearly sent here without their consent, exposed to the Wen virus and now losing their lives in a painful and disorienting way.

Disgusting. I'm offended she'd think that. Everyone knows the Sinth are protectors. Like the Ashen, we monitor our own zone, making sure we keep the Coalition's agreed upon laws.

Looking into my communicator, I scroll slowly through the information on her species. There's not much, but at the bottom I see why. No wonder she was confused! And thought I might have something to do with this. They haven't even been privy to space travel yet. Just their own moon with rudimentary rockets powered by ... fuel.

I almost laugh. Almost. This is just too disheartening to take lightly.

If I didn't have level six access to the Coalition information, I wouldn't have even been able to figure out what species they were. Information on such young, developing planets is logged with the Coalition, but not open to all. There are many species out there who'd love to pillage both the planet and the beings, sentient or not, for food and trade.

As a protector for the Sinth, I have access because of these kinds of situations. The only thing is ...

Turning around slowly, I try to figure out if she really sees me. I walk slowly back to her, and her sobs die down as I hover over her.

Hiccuping slightly, she opens her eyes, looking up at me with betrayal. Ignoring the sinking sensation in the pit of my stomach, I gaze back at her and wonder if I can make the sounds in her language. That's not really what the translator is for. I've only used it to understand other species' speech.

Most alien species are so different that it's not advisable to try and mimic their speech. It's better to speak your own language and let their translator convert the language so there are no miscommunications. It's amazing how a slight difference in enunciation can get you killed.

But she doesn't have a translator, I'm sure. "Can. You. See. Me?" I think I did pretty well for my first time trying, but she only blinks at me. Maybe I was imagining it, and she's just hallucinating while going through—

"Yes."

Again, I freeze, wondering how this is possible. How can she see me? Phasing all the way into my dimension, I hear a male voice behind me and swing around to see the youngest looking male lifting his head. "Are you okay, Amy?"

Amy. The female is called Amy. Strange, but pretty.

"Do you need help getting to the water again?" The male pulls himself to his forearms, and I'm impressed that he's even able to do that.

Amy drops her head back onto the floor without taking her eyes off me. She can't possibly be looking at me any longer, but she knows where I was. Taking two steps away and putting my back to the burnt-out landscape on this awful planet, I whisper, "Can. You. See. Me. Now?"

A sputtering laugh comes from Amy's mouth before she responds, "Yes, of course I can see you." Closing her eyes, she rolls to her side to look at the scrawny male, muttering, "I'm just talking to the Verizon guy, but yes, I could definitely use a drink. I think I can make it ..."

A surge of possessiveness rushes through my body when the male puts his arm around her, helping her slowly rise to her knees.

What's wrong with me? I shouldn't care what happens to this strange species. Yes, they're very similar to us but definitely different too. They can't phase, and they have the Wen virus. They're as good as dead ...

Amy and the man reach the water dispenser, and she drinks from it before asking, "Who are you?" Her voice is stronger now that's she's had water, and she sits down next to the dispenser, waiting for the male to take his turn to drink.

"Are you okay?" The man asks once done. Throwing his arm around her shoulders, he tries to turn her to look at him, but her eyes are locked on me again—and I've moved. Even now, I'm slowly walking around in front of her, passing through the bodies on the floor because I'm not there.

Finally, breaking our stare, she turns to look at him before throwing her arm out toward me. "You can't see him?"

I do give the male credit. He doesn't tell her she's an idiot, and he even looks around the room, his eyes flitting over me with absolutely no recognition. I take a step closer, rocking in front of him slightly, barely an arm's length away.

Nothing.

"No." His voice is soft and apologetic. Gritting my teeth, I watch him cup her face in his hands, bending in close to whisper to her. "We are really sick. You could be hallucinating ..."

Her eyes flicker to me even though her head, held in place by his fingers, doesn't move. My jaw aches as my temper flares. He shouldn't be touching her!

Taken aback by my anger and the direction of my thoughts, I throw my head back and laugh. Oh, yeah. Maybe there's just something wrong altogether on this planet.

Right now, in my own dimension, I couldn't stop him if I wanted to. We don't have any influence on the physical plane while we're totally immersed in our own.

Coming back to her dimension, I hover slightly, partially in both as I'm accustomed to. "Can you. See me. Now?"

Amy laughs again lightly, pulling out of the male's grip and moving over a little to roll onto her back. I know she sees me since her eyes never leave mine. I'm more interested in the male.

Is it possible their entire species is close enough to us genetically that our phasing can be seen by them? Could we actually share our private dimension with another species?

That would be a first. But as I'm learning, there are still sometimes firsts.

The male doesn't make any kind of indication that he's heard or noticed me in any way. His attention is fixed on Amy. Settling down next to her on the floor, he begins talking to her about when they "feel better."

I don't understand everything he's saying they'll do, but I understand the concept. He's trying to give her something to look forward to and strive for. "Getting better." Giving her hope.

He has no idea what they're in for. But I do.

Turning away, I walk out of their cage and make my way slowly through the rest of the building, looking in at the numerous and very generic holding areas, all with the larger food stock that the Wen require. If I report this to my superiors, the entire area will be quarantined, and the facility shut down for investigation. My job here would be done.

I'll never see the strange female called Amy again. In fact, she'll be unconscious in a while and never wake up again. I don't know why I think I can change that.

The thing is, I've never heard of anyone, Sinth or otherwise, that can see us when we phase. There never has been anyone, or I'm positive I'd know about it. Not even our own species can see each other when we phase into our own dimension. Our dimension is literally our own personal dimension. In fact, the only person who can see us when we phase into it is our mate ...

Is that possible? Could this Earth female be my mate? Whether she is or not, it's incredible she could see me. This is big news.

"Nineteen perlay, report." Trus's voice cuts in from my communicator as I waffle, reviewing the little I can remember about females and mating from our past.

"Ah ... ah ... um ..." Stammering a few more times, I make my decision. I can't take the chance. If there's even the slightest possibility that I can help or that she's my mate, I have to try and save her.

"Is everything all right there? I was planning on circling the south vector. Should I come to your location instead?" Trus knows me so well. There's no way I can keep this from him for long.

Phasing back into the Earth species pen, I stand over the female, watching her chest rise and fall softly. "There is a situation here that'll take some time to resolve. You don't have to hurry though. Just check pen three-two. Species contraband. They aren't going anywhere, but I'll leave it to you and take my leave now."

"Agreed. It seems your hunch panned out?"

"That it did."

CHAPTER FIVE

\- Amy

For the first time, when I wake, I don't feel like I'm burning up. In fact, cool air is trickling from overhead, and I'm lying on something plush. Opening my eyes, a white wall is directly in front of my face.

Taking a deep breath, I enjoy the sensation of my lungs feeling clear and being able to breathe properly. I vaguely remember being in that horrible cage with the men, and the whole time everything felt heavy and hot. Now, I feel sticky from the sweat drying on my body but much cooler. It's either air conditioning, or I had a serious fever that finally broke.

We must have gone to a hospital somewhere. Maybe the entire experience was a strange hallucination? It was certainly far out enough.

As I move to roll onto my back, I feel another body behind me. Freezing in place, I try to scan my surroundings, but it's not bright in the room. I'm definitely not outside any longer. Which, come to think of it, is a little strange.

A hospital would be brighter, right? And I'd hear people moving around, working and stuff? So where exactly am I? And, more importantly, who's behind me?

There's only one person I can think of that might have moved me from that nightmare cage. "Hank?" The form behind me stiffens, but not before I roll and sit up quickly. Pain shoots through my head as I hit the surface above me.

What the hell? Dropping onto my back, I realize that the ceiling is only a little over a foot away from me! Is this a bunk bed?

I assume we're in an infirmary of some sort, since we were all so sick. But I've never seen a hospital with bunk beds. How can they reach the patients properly?

I shift, trying to see beyond the form next to me. A light flickers behind the lump, illuminating the large shape from behind as a voice says, "Whoa. Wait."

A cool hand settles on my neck and part of my chest, and I look over into the compelling eyes of the stranger I spotted ... when? Everything is such a blur. He looks familiar though, with his odd, glowing skin and beautiful eyes.

His hair is dark, but there's something about him that's so strange. In the dim light, it's hard to see clearly, but his skin is definitely different. Lying next to him on the bed, I'm immediately drawn to touch him. There's a sheen to his skin that makes the surface look almost reflective ...

"How do you feel?" His voice vibrates through my body, sending shivers down to my toes, while his breath feathers across my face. The spicy scent of pine fills the air, and I inhale deeply, letting it calm and ground me. It reminds me of Christmas trees and the holidays.

Relaxing back onto the soft surface underneath me, I close my eyes. "I'm tired, but I don't feel as warm as I did in that ... cage. What was that?"

My eyes snap open, and I look at him questioningly. He looks angry, his lip curling into a snarl, and he gives off a blast of cold that's refreshing and fills the air with more of the frosty pine scent. He's so enticing. If I had any question of whether he was human before—it's totally gone now.

Shrinking back toward the wall, I feel the hard surface press against my back all too soon as I try to scramble away as fast as I can, fear replacing the relief of my situation in an instant. Have I really been saved? Or is this just another kind of cage I'm going to be subjected to? After watching everyone get so sick and disoriented before, I was thinking this was so much better.

"Don't be frightened." His chest is still rumbling in an odd way, but it's not quite as deep and intimidating. "I'm a guardian."

He says that like it makes all the difference in the world. As if that explains everything, but I am a little less intimidated. It's clear he isn't angry at me, but the situation. Which I have to admit, I'm quite pissed off about myself!

"I still don't understand what's going on. Why am I here? What was that place?" I stay pressed against the wall, watching his gray skin shimmer as he looks at me, clearly conflicted by something. "What aren't you telling me?" My questions become more demanding as I think about what I've gone through.

All I remember was talking on the phone with Jen and then the strange, blue light in the forest. Could I really have been abducted? Am I going to be one of those crazy people who everyone snickers about and ends up in tabloids because they claim to have been taken by aliens and brought back?

"You were taken from your planet ... Earth, correct?" When he pauses and waits for me to confirm that I'm from Earth, I feel like I've been punched in the gut. I can't help the whimper that escapes. Damn, damn, damn!

Instead of speaking, I swallow hard and nod, clamping the fingers of both hands over my mouth to keep the sob from escaping. I know I need to hold it together. There'll be time to break down later, but right now, I just need to figure this out and see if there's any possibility of getting home.

Gritting my teeth, I try to concentrate on his words, letting them seep into my accelerating heart. "I don't know why you're here or who brought you to this planet called Teleplay, but rest assured, you have my word as a guardian that we'll find out. My partner is working on it now."

Nodding, I try to think of all the questions I have. I guess the most obvious. "I've been sick. I'm better now?"

He hasn't taken his eyes off me, but now he looks away. Instinctively, I know he's gearing up to lie. "You've been sick with what's called the Wen virus. You've ended up on a planet that's contaminated with it. How do you feel?"

Well, that's easy. One hundred percent better. Wiggling my toes, I stretch as I think about it. I'm still a little sore, but I don't have the continuous aches and foggy-headed disorientation I suffered the entire time I was in that horrible place.

"I feel pretty good. Way better. The only thing ..." My voice trails off in embarrassment, which is stupid. Everybody has to go. "... Can I use your restroom?"

His face softens as he begins to work his way off the bed, which I now see isn't actually a bunk bed. Instead, it's partially cut into the wall, forming a cubby. "Of course. I'm sorry. I should have thought of that. You probably want to get cleaned up, too."

He stands next to the bed and holds out a hand. The bed turns out to be at his waist height, and he has to bend over to peer back into the space where the bed cuts into the wall. "Let me show you where it is, and you can get showered and into something clean."

Letting out a sigh of relief, I grasp his hand. It's difficult to ignore the strange jolt and continuing pulsing between us, but as he helps me stand, dizziness overtakes me as I look up ... and up. Whoa. Every time I've been next to him, I've been lying down. I had no idea he was so ... big. Like humongous. I don't have the time to really study exactly how tall he is, but it's definitely pro-basketball player tall.

He distracts me from my perusal by reaching around to pull my hair away and running a finger along the back of my spine. "Does that hurt?"

"No." Reaching up to feel my neck, my fingers hit his briefly before he pulls them away. Wait, there might be a little soreness there. I'm concentrating on pinpointing it when he explains.

"Oh, good. I installed a translator so you could understand me. It appears to have integrated perfectly. I'm sorry I couldn't get your consent, but I felt it'd be better to do while you were unconscious. I didn't want you to wake up and freak out if you were in a strange place and couldn't understand my language."

I'm so taken aback by this revelation that I just let out a slow, "Okay," before he turns to move away. I quickly survey the small room, noting a kitchen area and little else. We barely take two steps before a door in the wall slides open, and he points to a bathroom that for him would be the equivalent of an airplane bathroom to me. It's not too bad for me. I'd call it compact, but if he climbed into it, he'd have to back out.

Without asking, he steps in and starts what appears to be a shower, before saying something about getting me something clean to wear. I'm too overwhelmed to think too much about it, and when he steps back out, I step in, close the door, and get my first look at myself in the mirror over the sink. The mirror starts just under my chin since he's so much taller, but I can't miss the white in my hair.

There's a huge streak on both sides of my head, growing out from my temples. The rest of my hair is peppered with grey! What the fuck? Is this from the sickness I had?

Getting past my shock, I lean forward to look at my eyes. They've always been a greenish blue, but now they look lighter somehow. Is that even possible? Leaning forward, I get as close to the mirror as I can, studying the clumps of white floating in the iris of my eyes. The whites of my eyes are bloodshot, and I look like death warmed over.

The pounding on the closed door next to me makes me jump as his voice filters through, asking with a concerned tone, "Is everything all right?"

Shaking myself out of my reverie, I respond, "Yes. I'm just getting in now."

"I've left a shirt here for you to slip on, and if you leave your old clothes in there, I can get them cleaned up."

"Thank you."

He's been so nice. Is this normal for a "guardian?" As I climb into the shower, I realize I've never even asked him his name. I'm so self-centered, but considering how bad I look, maybe it's justified. Could I have been close to dying?

I don't take long to get cleaned up. First of all, I'm exhausted already. I feel as if I've been running all day without a break, and even though the warm water feels lovely, it doesn't quite take away all the aches and pains I'm experiencing.

By the time I get out of the bathroom, I'm about dead on my feet and so appreciative the bed is only steps away. He keeps his gaze politely averted from where he's sitting on the edge of the bed, holding a mug as big as a bowl, while I throw on the shirt he left for me. When I'm done and move closer, he passes the mug of what looks like broth, and I take it gratefully.

After my first sip, I look up at him apologetically. "I'm really sorry, but I haven't even asked you your name."

"Mavin." Nodding like it makes perfect sense that an alien I just met has such a short, distinctive, plain name, I concentrate on drinking the broth. It's just the right temperature, soothing my dry throat and parched lips.

"Thank you, Mavin," I murmur as I pass the mug back once I finish. I'm so exhausted right now, I don't even have the energy to ask him anything else.

"Are you ready for me to help you back into the bed?" Lifting my arms, I cling to him as he lifts me up. The comforting thrum of his body ricochets through me, creating a soothing vibration that makes me feel infinitely better. "Lay down and sleep for a while. It hasn't been that long, but you seem much better."

When he sets me on the bed and let's go, I instantly feel bereft. There must be something about his alien species that gives off that soothing vibration that makes me feel like I'm sitting in a massage chair. I don't think too much about it as I ask, "Can you stay and hold me? Just until I fall asleep? The way you vibrate like that ... it feels wonderful."

Mavin looks a little taken aback, but he doesn't argue. Instead, he climbs in next to me without another word and pulls me into him. He lets me use his bicep as a pillow, and as I rest my face on his chest, all I can think is I hope I don't drool on his uniform. It feels that good.

CHAPTER SIX

\- Mavin

I knew I was taking a big chance when I took the Earth female back to the ship for my sleep cycle. For all I knew, I might wake up next to a corpse, but so far, my "hunches" have all been correct. I knew she was there. I knew she could see me even when I phased into my dimension, and now, once again, I'm right.

Amy woke me up when she bolted up in bed and slammed her head against the ceiling in my sleep cubby. While she is getting cleaned up, I make her a healing broth that for all intents and purposes should be exactly what she needs. When I pull out a shirt for her to change into, I'm excited ... yes, literally excited to see her in it.

Her clothing was covered in pen bedding, and although I tried to brush off the bulk of it before putting her into my cubby, I still take a few moments to swap the sheets too. Even though I've had plenty of sleep, while Amy heals, she'll need much more. I'm somewhat concerned about her and how the Wen virus is progressing.

After some sleep, she doesn't look worse, but she doesn't really look better either. It's as if the virus plateaued, and I've never heard of that happening. When Trus and I compare notes, or hell, when I get a chance to read his logs, I'll be able to see how the virus has progressed with the males from her pen. Right now, she's just lucky to be coherent and not in the transition phase.

I feel it's a good sign after she comes out to join me by the bed and remembers to ask for my name. Even though I can't physically see improvement beyond the fact that she's standing, Amy does appear to be interested in her surroundings and hungry enough to drink the healing broth. She's immediately drowsy. Maybe there's something in the medicine making her that way, though.

I'm taken aback when she talks about my body vibrating. No one's ever mentioned a vibration when they touched me. It isn't a Sinth species attribute, and I've never felt a vibration when I touched anyone else. But with her, I feel something, like a magnetic pull that draws me to her.

And I do want to hold her—fuck, yeah. I've wanted to since I laid her in my bed, wasting the first half perth staring at her sleeping. I can't help but notice her shiny hair falling over her shoulders in soft waves, the tiny, light brown dots scattered over her nose, and the delicate hands she curls under her chin as she cuddles into my bedding.

Everything about her is delicate, enticing, arousing ... and totally off limits. If she's protected by the Ashen, and another by-product of one of the species integration projects they're so fond of, she's no more available for breeding—or casual sexual relationships—than for food. Protected is protected.

So, why couldn't I leave her with the males in the pen? As Amy snuggles into my side, she casually flings a leg over mine and settles into the crook of my arm, forcing me to try to stifle my natural reactions as best I can. I clench my aching jaws together again and again, but it's pretty futile.

My cock rises as our bodies hum together. I now know exactly what she's referring to when she talked about vibrating. She's light as a feather as she lays on me, but there's definitely a distinctive and noticeable vibration between us. In fact, it's making it hard for me to stay in this dimension.

Try as I might, I can feel the control that keeps me pinned here slipping. That's something that hasn't happened to me since I was an adolescent going through the change. Trying to ground myself, I lean up slightly to inhale a deep breath of the enticing scent she gives off.

Even though we have cleaning products in our showers, none of them are scented. It's bad form on some planets to show up smelling artificial. Not to mention, some species are allergic and intolerant to some fragrances.

But Amy, she has a wonderful scent all her own. Treekee fruit and sunshine. It reminds me of when I was younger and given a reward for good behavior. As my thoughts drift off aimlessly, I realize that I've phased again—but she's still with me!

For the first time in my entire life, someone else has slipped into my personal dimension with me!

Coming back to the ship with a start, I look down and run my hands over her arms and back. She doesn't seem to be damaged from the phasing. As I rub her, her legs tighten around mine slightly, sending my cock straining against my loose fitting sleep pants. Thank the gods they're not tight, or there's a chance I'd get broken.

It's been a long time since I've had a woman in my arms. Especially a real, beautiful female like this one. It'd figure that she's off-limits.

As my thoughts drift off into how tight her small body would feel, snug and squeezing my cock, I phase without any control whatsoever. What the fuck? The only reason I even realize what's happening is because the dim background around us becomes quieter as the ship's engine noise disappears.

This time, I don't phase back right away. Sure enough, the small female in my arms barely stirs, still clinging to me as if her life depends on it. Right at this very moment, it may.

Phasing into my dimension may mean that her physiology is capable of going through the healing process the phase evokes. I try to think back to anything I've read about the different phasing tests run on non-Sinth species, but I'm not a scholar. All I know are outcomes, and it's always been known—with no exceptions—that the Sinth species are the only ones that can phase.

Is it possible that the Earth species can phase like us, and we just weren't aware of it because of their protected status? But that doesn't make any sense at all. If they can phase, why were they trapped in the Wen feed pens?

There's not a chance in hell that any respectable Sinth would allow any other species to cage them. There isn't anything that can hold us. We can pass through any solid surface, and that's why Sinth often called upon for infiltration. It isn't considered respectable like my Guardian position, but it still pays.

Like any species in any of the galaxies, we have good and bad of our kind. Those who bend the rules for profit. The thing is, we're considered highly dangerous if we're not respectable. The only way to stop us is to kill us, and that's extremely difficult.

"Amy, can you hear me?" I shift the arm she's laying on, drawing her closer into my side. I just want to reassure myself that she's all right. Already, I can feel my sexual attraction to her escalating.

Every muscle in my body tightens as I clench my aching jaw and think about her being hurt. Since I've discovered her in that pen, unconscious and dying, I thought of nothing but making her better. Seeing her smiling and happy and living ... with me.

I freeze as I realize the depth of my feelings and attraction already. How could I feel this way so quickly? I've been attracted to small, cute creatures before. I've owned a gresu and I still think about her soft, brown eyes, and slow blinks and movements. But I never wanted to fuck her!

"Amy, can you hear me?" My voice grows louder as she continues to lay unconscious on my chest. "Amy!"

This time, I shake her, pulling her more onto my chest and body and lifting her face to mine. Just when I'm about to roll us over and phase back, horrified at what I may have inadvertently done, her eyes pop open.

Squinting slightly, she yawns, arching her back, and I watch with fascination as we float in the nothing around us. Her borrowed shirt rides up her thighs. The bedding didn't come with us, and I'm almost sad that our clothing did. If she moves any lower, I'll be prodding her with my engorged cock.

I can't help the way she affects me. I don't think any man could, although the thought of her in anyone else's arms sends a spike of jealousy through my system so sharp that my arms tighten on her hips. Freezing, I realize that I've never felt anything like this before.

I've never had anyone—or anything, really—phase into my dimension with me. The only biological entity that supposedly has ever phased into another Sinth's dimension is their mate, but that is not without extreme concentration developed through a lot of practice...

"What exactly did you need, Mavin?" Still laying against my chest as she speaks, Amy curls her arms along my side as she snuggles deeper into my bare chest. "Oh!"

Amy's head pops up as her cleft hits the tip of my cock, straining against the pants that still act as a thin barrier between us. Instead of looking angry as I expect, a slow, calculating smile spreads across her face. "I see ..."

CHAPTER SEVEN

\- Amy

I'm pulled from sleep by my name being called again and again, but I don't want to wake up. In the dream I'm having, I'm lying on top of the most gorgeous man ...

My eyes twitch as my body rocks. I'm jostled again, and I feel strong, large hands on my hips, shaking me roughly. My clit is throbbing where it rests against a soft material. Wiggling slightly, I feel the fabric skim across my sensitive flesh.

My scalp tingles as my hair is pulled, cranking my neck up and causing my eyes to crack open. Oh, yes. It's Mavin. My super-hot rescuer, and I'm lying on his chest.

Damn. He feels so good. I can feel his stomach muscles flex and dance underneath me. As much as I hate waking up and breaking this moment, he's starting to act frantic.

"Amy, can you hear me?" God! He sounds so much like that fucking commercial, that I can't help the smirk that spreads across my face as I roll my head to the side, not even bothering to lift it.

"What exactly did you need, Mavin?" I only lift my lids briefly to glance at him, but his eyes are wide as his fingers dig into my hips in a way that just makes me want more.

I'm not usually this horny, but there's something about this big, broody alien. He's so serious, and every time I look at him, he's staring at me as if he needs to figure me out. Or as if he's undressing me—which he kind of did when he gave me this incredibly soft nightshirt to put on. It's obviously his, and I'm cognizant of the fact that I'm not wearing any panties.

Curling into his chest, I tuck my head lower under his chin, determined to go back to sleep if he doesn't answer in the next five seconds. I'm so close ...

I feel a prodding near my pussy, too close to just be his hand. As it dawns on me what it is, my head pops up in shock. Looking at him, I'm aware he's turned on, but he looks afraid. Probably thinks I'm going to be pissed the fuck off.

Not a chance. My clit is a living entity, throbbing with my heartbeat. I'm sure it'll only take a few minutes for me to come, and is that really so bad? We're two consenting adults, even if we aren't exactly the same species.

He looks human enough, and if the poking is what I think it is, we're clearly compatible and attracted to each other. Smiling slowly, I answer him, "I see ..."

Lifting my butt slightly, I slide lower to settle my crotch over his soft pajama pants. I'm taken aback by the arousal that zings through my body. Between the low level hum I experience every time I touch him and now having my wet, sensitive cleft against him, I almost spring up again.

I'm soaked, too. He's going to have a wet spot, and I might feel bad about that if it didn't feel so spectacular. Plus, he's going to be adding his own wet spot here in a second anyways, right?

When I grind my hips against him, he lets out a feral growl above me. I don't even open my eyes, just smile and continue to rub against him, picking up speed as my lust intensifies. I can tell when he finally gives in because his fingers tighten to the point of pain, and his own hips tilt forward, offering me more leverage ... which I kindly take him up on.

Pausing, I settle my weight firmly on the hard, thick rod he's sporting, sitting up enough to grasp the bottom of my shirt and pull it over my head. His eyes drop to my chest where I cup myself as I swivel my hips. His features are tight as he studies me through hooded lids, before his hands loosen and slide up, pushing my hands to the side.

Not missing a beat, he tugs on my nipples, pressing the mounds of my breasts together as he begins to pant. His lips part, and I notice that he seems to have longer canines now in his mouth. Very sexy.

I'm close ... so close ... when suddenly he flips us over, putting me beneath him, pausing for a moment. "Don't stop," I murmur, my speech almost garbled from the impending ecstasy that's building in my body. As if reading my mind, I feel his very naked cock prodding against my entrance. Once ... twice ... before he drives in deep with one firm thrust.

Throwing back my head, I go rigid, flung into an instant orgasm that detonates inside me. I can't think and can barely breathe as I cry out. His arms cage me, wrapping around me tightly as he plunges in and out of me, deep and fast.

"Mavin!" I cry as he mindlessly pounds into me, his enthusiasm a raw force that never lets me come down.

The rhythm continues as I spiral into another Earth-shattering orgasm. His passion has him growling and groaning as I tighten around his length, and he fights to gain more access inside me. Clutching him tightly around the neck, I submit to the pleasure he's inflicting on me.

His lips capture mine, and he dips his tongue into my mouth immediately, moaning as he comes. As he thrusts his tongue deeper between my parted lips, his hands slow and gentle on my skin, stroking my bare back before moving lower to cup the curve of my ass. His lips break from mine to flutter over my cheeks, my chin, and down to my throat.

I sigh as my body relaxes before he catches my exhale with another searing kiss. With a deep growl, he breaks the kiss after an instant, looking into my eyes as he grinds deeply inside me with continual slow, meaningful thrusts of his hips. The impressive size of him has my toes curling as I experience every ridge sliding against my hyper-sensitive tissue still recovering from my orgasms.

His eyes bore into mine as a strange connection seems to tie us together. Weird, colorful lights flicker in my peripheral vision, creating flashing rainbow prisms that ricochet off his strange, almost reflective skin. Instead of him pinning me down, it feels as if we're floating, tied together by an invisible force I don't understand and certainly can't comprehend while he's moving so perfectly inside me.

"Say you're mine." His voice echoes around us, causing my eyes to disconnect from his as I try to figure out how he did that. "Amy!" At my name, I lock eyes with him again, drawn into the deep pools of his incredible eyes that secure me to him. "Say you're mine."

I don't even see his lips move as his voice echoes around us again. All I feel is the incredible sensation of our bodies rubbing together as he stretches and fills me. Over and over, ecstasy builds, drawing me toward another inevitable climax.

I'm trying to think. To understand what he means by this question. I am his, aren't I?

He saved me. Healed me. I'm his, I'm certain. Right now, it's the most obvious and concrete thing in my world. Mavin, my savior.

"Say you're mine." His words haven't even begun to quit echoing around us before I yell out my response.

"I'm yours!"

His eyes finally release me as he moves his head to my ear, murmuring, "Then take me."

Aren't I already doing that?

I gasp as a sharp, quick pain shoots through my neck. His arms tighten, but I'm not trying to get away. No. Just the opposite.

Hard tugs center on my throat where his mouth latches on, and I know he's biting me. But it doesn't hurt. In fact, I feel like we're melting together as he draws me closer. I lose myself to the erotic heat of the moment, embracing the warmth spreading through me, binging on pleasure beyond anything I've ever experienced.

CHAPTER EIGHT

\- Mavin

My relief turns to shock as Amy slides lower and lifts her ass, placing it strategically on top of my throbbing cock. At that moment, I'm cursing my clothing, annoyed with the barrier of pants between us. Thin, but effective.

She's mine, I think selfishly, making excuses for continuing what she's starting. Her wet excitement soaks me instantly and fills the air with an intoxicating perfume. My head spins, causing a disorientation I haven't experienced in my dimension since the first time I phased. What's happening to me? To us?

Could she really be this compatible with our species? Mating compatible?

When she twitches her hips against me, I Iet out a feral growl when I almost spill. Her body begins a rhythm, compelling and provocative. At first she's slow, but as I continue to harden under her, my hips lift.

Then she sits up, and my self-control evaporates. Before I realize what she intends, she's pulled my shirt up her body and over her head, shaking out her clean hair and sending a wave of incredible scents into the air. When her hands move up to her round, high breasts, my eyes follow, mesmerized. She's the most beautiful thing I've ever seen.

Trailing my hands slowly up her sides, I give her every opportunity to stop me before I slide them under hers. Her skin is warm and silky, like a pannu, one of our most prized hides that only the most fortunate can afford to utilize in a garment. Cupping her lightly, I grasp her nipples between my thumb and index fingers, rolling them and watching her reaction

My own arousal is off the charts. Immeasurable. I've never been this hard, and just as I realize this, I feel a strange tingling in my jaw. It's been bugging me from clenching my teeth so much, but this tingling ... just about everything on my body is tingling right now ...

A sharp pain shoots through my gums, and I bite down, surprised. But there's a strange hitch in my bite now. Poking out my tongue, I realize my secondary incisors have sprung out. This is surprising—but not totally unexpected. I'd honestly forgotten this aspect of our change during mating.

So, she is mating compatible. This explains so much.

Moving instinctively, I switch our positions, flipping her onto her back and looking down at her. She seems receptive. As if she's answering my silent question, she murmurs, "Don't stop." Her voice is thick with lust as I'm drawn to her. Every cell in my body wants this. Wants her. She smells incredible

With every pant and twitch, her body calls to me on a primal level. I feel my cock rubbing and prodding, practically moving on its own. Or maybe it's my entire body that's working on instinct right now. I'm not sure.

Trusting this ... this intangible connection between us, I look at her beneath me and thrust my cock forward, penetrating her as deeply as I can. I'm not all the way in. She's wet but so tight, gripping me with a hold I never want to leave. When she throws her head back, crying out, I'm afraid I've hurt her. I pause, watching her expression. But then the unmistakable feeling of her kneading me starts, pulsing around my cock. I easily sink deeper before pulling out to pound back inside.

My body goes on autopilot as I grip her to me tightly, enjoying the way she screams my name over and over with each thrust. Her body relaxes under me, allowing me farther inside until I come, slapping against her with my balls as I groan. She's not in pain, though, as she clutches me around the neck. I lean into kiss her, penetrating her mouth as I moan.

I'm so thankful. My body slows as I think about what I've been given. How lucky I am ... this beautiful female creature. Running my hands up and then down her back, I angle her body to sink deeper, then pull back, ending our kiss.

I draw my lips down over her fragile features, and I kiss the small dots on her nose, her pointed chin, down to her jawline where I inhale deeply. I can smell and taste the blood on her lips. She has a small cut we've broken open, and it sends another rush of adrenaline pounding through me. Pushing me.

My new teeth ache, and I know this is it. The moment of truth. She's mine, but does she realize it, too?

Capturing her lips with my own, I pour all the longing and thankfulness and pure joy that I feel into the kiss. When I pull away, I hover over her, waiting for her to meet my eyes. Grinding deep inside her body, I match her thrusts, and her lids flutter as she smiles. The tie between us is undeniable. All-consuming.

I've read about the Mating Lights, but nothing could have prepared me for the way they flash and dance around us, sending prisms of color off every surface. Her eyes go wide as she notices, and I direct her attention back to me, demanding, "Say you're mine."

She's immediately distracted by the way my dimension—or should I say our dimension—echoes the words. Shaking her a bit, I call her name. "Amy!"

Her name echoes around us, making it seem as if I've yelled it multiple times. She locks eyes with me again as I repeat, "Say you're mine." This time, I wait. I want her permission to bind us together. She may not know exactly what she's agreeing to, but she'll never be able to deny this incredible pull between us right now.

She has to feel it, right? Know it? I'm frustrated as I demand it again, "Say you're mine."

Thankfully, she answers immediately. Loudly and with confidence, "I'm yours!"

Thank the gods! Dropping my lips to her ear, I whisper, "Then take me."

Moving my lips down to her delicate pulse, I enjoy the warm crush of her skin against my tongue as I lick gently, savoring the moment. Her rapid panting accelerates as I open my mouth and sink my new fangs deep into her neck.

Amy jerks slightly in my arms, clearly surprised, but she doesn't pull away. In fact, she draws me deeper, sighing as I succumb to the hunger she inspires in me. I try to be gentle, but her body begins to buck against me, and I feel the telltale squeeze of her around me.

Despite never doing this before, I instinctively know it's time to give. Releasing her neck slowly, I draw out and lick the remnants of blood from her skin, knowing the clotting properties in my saliva will help staunch the flow, although the real healing will come from my blood. Nicking my tongue on a fang, I'm surprised at how sharp they are. That was easy, I think as I plunder her lips while she comes, sharing my essence with her.

Amy immediately latches on, drawing hard as she takes all of me. It causes me to explode inside her, coming deep and hard, feeling myself flowing into her in every way. All of myself, too. My very existence seems to come together, solidifying that this was what was meant to happen. A sense of contentment flows over me, and our kiss gentles into sliding tongues and breathless strokes.

My tongue has already healed as I phase in the bed, letting us drop onto its plush surface as our breathing settles. I turn us, so she's once again lying on top of me, and hold her in my arms. I feel ... complete. Tired, but satisfied.

Amy's eyes are wide as she sits up on me to glance around. I know she's confused, but I'm still enjoying the afterglow, wondering why she can't do the same. Rubbing her hip, I wait for the inevitable questions.

But before she can get any out, I hear Trus calling by way of interdimensional call.

"Mavin! Where the fuck are you? We need to talk right now!"

Letting out a sigh, I notice Amy can hear him too. She's dropped down, trying to hide as her eyes flicker around uneasily.

"You can't hide out in your dimension forever," Trus calls. True, I suppose. Although, I bet I could stay here a lot longer now with a mate to keep me company. Then he adds, "It's time to confess."

What could he possibly know already? Tightening my arms around Amy, I make sure the sheet from the bed is wrapped around us both before phasing back.

CHAPTER NINE

\- Amy

I know things are definitely different with him when he bites my neck. I already knew he was an alien, and I took the chance getting freaky with him. This is just what I get. As long as I live through it, what's the harm though, right?

Everyone has fetishes. Some of them are pretty harmless. I'm not a fan of getting cum shot in my face, but that's a pretty common one. That shit stings if you get it in your eyes.

So, if the alien guy wants to take a little blood, so be it. It feels phenomenal. Every second of our encounter is out of this world.

What I'm not expecting is to get some back. At least, I think that's what it is. I'm not prepared for his tongue being shoved into my mouth and tasting so fucking awesome. It can't be my blood, right?

With a deep, sweet flavor, it flows over my tongue tasting richer than any wine I'd ever had. I feel instantly intoxicated. In conjunction with those weird lights, echoing voices, and a strange—perfect, I might add—sensation of contentment, I'm feeling what I'd always thought love would be like. I'm definitely reading too much into this.

It doesn't last very long, but I spiral into another incredible orgasm. Just when I think there's no way he can top it—wham! Another one hijacks my senses.

I'm still recovering with aftershocks while he's buried deep inside me. Even though, for a while there, I could've sworn we were floating around. Mind blown! But now we're on some kind of foam bed under white sheets, and I'm straddling his body.

Lifting myself up slowly, I brace my hands on his shoulders and look around at our strange surroundings. I'm careful at first not to bang my head. I don't need to repeat what I did earlier.

But there's no ceiling to hit. Everything past the bed looks hazy. Foggy even. Like we ended up in the middle of a field cloaked in fog.

Mavin continues to rub my back. He's not freaking out about our surroundings. Just staring at me quietly, with an almost smug smile on his face. I've seen that expression before, but it was that good for me this time too.

I'm contemplating this mind-boggling realization when all of a sudden I hear a male voice yell, "Mavin! Where the fuck are you? We need to talk right now!"

Woah. Someone's in hot water for something, but the weird way the voice echoes and sounds far away ... where the fuck are we?

My eyes dance around uneasily before settling on Mavin, waiting to see how he reacts. I still feel languid and kind of out of it. He can just leave me here and go deal with his shit ...

I'm just relieved it was a male voice and not female. Been there and done that. Awkward.

"You can't hide out in your dimension forever."

Did he say dimension? He must have said destination ...

"It's time to confess," the voice continues.

Mavin tightens his arms around me, and then all of a sudden, the air around us spins in a vortex of colors. There's no wind though, just lights as it circles us tighter and tighter, before suddenly, it all just stops. Only we're not in the same place!

What. The. Fuck.

"What the fuck?" The male voice behind me echoes my thoughts. Did he read my mind? I almost trip over to the side as I try to turn around and see who this newcomer is, but Mavin's arms are like steel bands, holding me tight to his chest with the sheet from the bed still circling us both.

How did he do that? Mavin tilts slightly back so I can get a look at the man over my left shoulder. I see that we're back in the room we woke up in, standing outside the bathroom door near the small, compact kitchen.

"I can explain—"

"You'd better be able to! I just got done with the Teleplay Food Handlers. After reporting the contraband human species to the Coalition and consequently the Ashen, I stuck around long after they had thought I was gone. They were acting shifty and supposedly had no idea how the Earth species ended up there. Do you know what I found out?"

The man looks nothing like Mavin, but he does have the same, strange reflective gray skin that flashes and catches the light in an eerie way. Dark hair, light gray skin ... but totally different features. This must be an alien co-worker?

Mavin doesn't say anything, just shrugs as he keeps me close to his chest. I think I'm getting the general idea though. He took me from the cage where Hank and the other guys were. That must have been a no-no.

"There was a female." The new man continues after a brief moment. Probably catching his breath because ... wow. He's pissed. "They all remember a female. Well, look at that." He gestures to me. "There she is!"

"Are you done?" Mavin's calmness is impressive. It wouldn't matter whether I was right or wrong, that level of freaking out from a co-worker would definitely get my back up. But not him.

Nodding, the new guy steps back to sink into a chair by the small table in the kitchen. It's clear this must be their office and living space while they're working together. Leaning back, his eyes roam over me, clearly looking for something.

"Trus, this is Amy from Earth. Amy, this is Trus. Now, I'm going to get her a shirt to throw on, and then we can sit down and talk about this."

"Fine." Trus jumps up and turns around to fix himself some food on the kitchen's small countertop. Mavin spins me the other way, leaning past me to open an overhead bin where there are a couple other shirts identical to the one I had on earlier. Where did the other shirt go, anyway?

Just what the hell is going on? This is probably good because I think I'm just as confused as Trus.

"Put this on, please." Mavin grabs the ends of the sheet, holding it out like a curtain to give me the equivalent of an old-fashioned privacy screen. After I dress, he drops the sheet and gets clothing for himself. I don't mean to stare, but damn, he is fine.

When I can unglue my eyes from Mavin, who seems to be enjoying my wandering eyes if his cock at half-mast means anything, I turn to see Trus has sat back down, a large mug, identical to the one Mavin gave me earlier, in his hand. He's staring thoughtfully at me over the rim.

Self-consciously, I tug down on the hem on my shirt, but a low growl from Mavin has Trus's stare jerking to him as he lowers his mug in shock. His mouth slowly parts as Mavin advises, "Just ... just don't look at her right now."

Oh, brother. Okay, I'm going to give them a couple minutes to work this out. Stepping into the bathroom, I use the toilet, and as I'm washing my hands, I'm relieved to see that I'm looking better. Specifically, my eyes. They're way less bloodshot and with a lot less white floating around in the iris. They're beginning to look like my natural color again.

The hair though ... I don't know. I hope it's not permanent. It makes me look ten years older than my twenty-five years, that's for sure.

When I walk out, both men look up at me. Uh-oh. This looks serious.

I'm guessing that Mavin's in hot water for taking me out of the pen. Clearly, I had some kind of disease and maybe I was quarantined?

"Do I have to go back?" I'd rather just know. They're acting so weird. Trus is staring at me like I'm a new and exciting bug he'll get to dissect.

"No!" Mavin's shout is loud in the tiny space, and I want to believe him, but the strange look on Trus's face has me glaring back. "Then what gives? Why's he staring at me like that?"

"You haven't told her yet, either?" Trus's voice trails off as a smile spreads across his face. Leaning back, he crosses his arms, settling in to watch as I shift my gaze to Mavin. What hasn't he told me now?

My stomach sinks at the realization of what Mavin is likely about to say. I get that I was a contraband species, but certainly they can wipe my memory or something and send me home. Jen needs me, and I need to return to my childhood home to pick up my things, including the memories of my mother who passed when I was twelve.

"It's complicated, Amy." When Mavin starts talking, I realize he would've led with that. A sense of relief washes over me.

How bad can it be then? They probably just want me to stay here for a while until I'm healed. I can deal with anything as long as I can go back home eventually ...

"When I first went out for my shift, I felt this strange, nagging feeling telling me I needed to go over to the south holding pens. I held off until the end of my work shift, knowing it wasn't on my agenda for the day. I apologize for any additional suffering you went through due to my delay."

Mavin sinks into the other chair at the table, waving me over. Without another thought, my feet move to him, letting him draw me into his arms to perch on his leg. "But when I did see you, I realized that you could see me too, even when I phased into my own dimension. That's ... unheard of for my kind. It's the definitive sign that someone's your mate."

When he pauses, I try to understand what he means. Mate, like match? A dating match?

"I can see the questions in your eyes, but to simplify things, think of it as your perfect counterpart. The perfect person for you."

That's flattering. I think he's pretty hot, too. I'm not against continuing our relationship, except for one thing. "Can you take me back to Earth?" Mavin looks taken aback as Trus laughs from across the table.

I rush to clarify, not wanting to hurt his feelings. "It's just, I was taken unexpectedly. My friend Jen is going through a hard time. Her husband is super sick with cancer, and I have things there ... memories and belongings from my mother who passed away ..."

Mavin tightens his arms around me as I start to stumble across my words, emotion making me pause. "Of course, of course. We can go back. I don't know if we can stay forever—"

"Why?" I demand. Here we go again. You hook up with a guy, and they expect you to relocate for them. So fucking annoying!

Mavin's mouth open and shuts, rubbing the back of his neck as he contemplates an answer, but it's Trus who answers, "We don't exactly blend—"

"Sure we do." Mavin finally gets his voice, cutting him off. "Perfectly, actually. We're probably one of the few alien species who could go to another planet and blend."

Putting his arms around me, he tugs me back into him, tilting his hips to make sure I notice that he's hard—again. He's looking at Trus as he continues, "There's no reason why we can't go back. Besides, don't you want to know if this was an anomaly?"

Trus's eyes get big, and even though he's staring at me, I can tell he isn't looking at me. Instead he's looking through me as he contemplates Mavin's words. "What if all Sinth males can mate with Earth females? Isn't that something you'd like to know is an option?"

CHAPTER TEN

\- Mavin

As I climb into my personal transport, I'm thankful that Trus is being as accommodating about me leaving as he is. Not only does he have to keep working as an intermediary between us and the Ashen, who're absolutely livid about their Earth project landing on a Wen contaminated planet, but the Coalition has been notified and expects regular updates, too.

I'm leaving him to cover both of our rounds while I head back to Earth with Amy, but based on our past experiences, we certainly don't want to send an update through the chain of command too soon. Look where it's landed us? Here on Teleplay ... although, I may have to rethink that now that Teleplay is where I've met my mate.

"You're sure about this?" Dropping my voice, I gesture inside the craft where Amy is checking it all out. "I can probably talk her into waiting, at least for a while."

Part of me hates to say that, since Amy's repeatedly asked. I'm not sure if she thinks we'll change our minds or what. I don't mind going to Earth at all. This is the adventure I've been waiting for all my life. Now that I have a mate, I have more than I ever dreamed I would have.

"No. I'd rather you went and took care of this now. Just ... don't settle in, all right?" Slamming shut the access panel we've now triple-checked, he leans his palms against the smooth silver surface and doesn't move. "I think ... I think I'd miss you."

His voice raises at the end like he's questioning this absurd idea as I snort. Punching him in the arm, I give him shit right back. "Of course, you'd miss me. Who's going to make sure you have something to drink your balif out of?"

Trus's penchant to let every single thing—not only dishes, but clothes and facilities too—get dirty before doing any cleaning is well known. It comes from his wealthy family having too many female members. Everything was taken care of for him. I don't think he even knew how to run most of the auto-apparatuses we have when he started.

"Do I get to co-pilot?" Amy bounces over to us, her excitement palatable. I have to remind myself that despite our similar appearances, her species doesn't have the same space travel knowledge.

"Co-pilot like fly?" I can already see Trus smirking in my peripheral vision. Yes, this is another thing I haven't told her about, but it doesn't change anything. We have to go into stasis; otherwise it's going to take forever to get there.

"Yes!" As Amy jumps up and down, I watch her tits bounce invitingly.

She's totally recovered from the Wen virus, but the streaks in her hair have yet to disappear. I know she's hoping that her hair will grow in red, but it hasn't been long enough after her recovery to tell. She says worst case, she can dye it.

"You can co-pilot whenever we manually fly the craft." Trus rolls his eyes at my diplomatic answer.

It's easy to see why Amy and I are a perfect match. Everything new is exciting to her. Another great adventure. Just being with her, I feel the same way.

Turning to Trus, I hold out my arm for a farewell, but he surprises me as he pulls me in to clasp me to his chest, whispering in my ear, "Don't forget to keep me updated. I know it'll be hard to say for sure, but send me information, and I'll return the favor."

Giving him a tight squeeze, I step back, understanding what he means. He won't specifically report if I don't come back after my leave. And when this assignment on Teleplay is over, I'm sure he'll be taking his own personal time to join me. Not coming back to report in on time isn't anything new.

It's the same thing when a Sinth decides it's time to die. They just don't come back. Our entire society is set up around this premise. Sometimes, life gets to be too much.

"I understand." Smiling brightly, I look down at Amy. "Shall we?"

Gesturing to the door, she surprises us both when she throws herself into Trus's body, clasping her arms around his waist to give him a squeeze before I can protest. As soon as it starts, it ends, and she's backing away with a smirk on her face. "Take care, Trus. And thanks for putting up with me."

Trus stares at her in shock. He's immobile for a moment before his eyes shift to mine, laughing lightly. "Good luck with her." Shaking his head, he walks off out of range for our take off, and I board my craft for the next great adventure of my life—with my mate.

Earth.

About Pearl Tate

I'm super excited to be spreading my wings and sharing what I enjoy!

I'm happily married to the love of my life and working on being the best mom possible to our great children.

I love all kinds of stories but there is a special place in my heart for all forms of romance. The good, the bad and yes, even the ugly. When I write, I get to make sure there is always a happily ever after and that is the best part of all!

Don't miss The Quasar Lineage Series!

The first book Bren's Blessing is FREE at all your favorite retailers

& the entire series is available on Kindle Unlimited.

If you like what you've read, don't forget to stop by my website to get on my mailing list. I'll let you know when the next book should be out as well as when I run specials.

http://pearltate.com/website

Don't forget to leave a review and share your book with a friend!

Twitter: http://pearltate.com/twitter

Facebook: http://pearltate.com/facebook

Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/authorptate/

I'm always striving to get better so if you see any errors, spelling or grammar, PLEASE TELL ME!

If you can tell me the book and phrase at this address that would be super

SINTH SEEKER  
CHAPTER ONE

\- Teresa

Jade dramatically lowers her voice, as if we would both be killed if she were overheard on the patio outside the cafeteria. "I'm serious, though. It shouldn't even be digestible. Why would they want that ... in the food?"

Jade's my best friend, and I'm super grateful she's here. We're both assigned to the same government base in the middle of Yosemite National Park where there's not a lot of nightlife. But holy fucking shit! Could she be any more dramatic?

Trying to keep my face serious and not let the smirk I'm hiding show, I just nod slightly, "Are you sure, though? I mean that they want it in the food?" Squinting against the bright sun beating down on our heads, I try to not let her dramatics bother me. Jade organizes and monitors all the purchasing and distribution of food that comes to the super-secret base where we both live, and maybe the stress of the position is starting to get to her? What she's suggesting is a little off the wall.

"Yes, I'm sure." Huffing out in clear exasperation, she blows her long bangs up on the exhale. Her voice drops impossibly lower although we're the only people outside right now. "I was given this list of specific instructions on how to integrate it into the meals. I don't know who's supposed to get those meals ... could they be trying to ... kill them?"

I can barely hear her. I'm really just reading her lips at this point. And who? Didn't this come from up the chain of command?

Looking over my shoulder, her face changes, brightening into the normal, sunny expression she gives to the world. Jade's a professional at putting on a positive face. Living here, though, we all have to be. It's tough being away from friends and family, and she has such a large one. The exact opposite of me, since my mother died when I was in high school and my father left us when I was young, leaving my nomad aunt to settle in at the time.

My mother was diagnosed with cervical cancer when I was sixteen. Thank god, Aunt Donna was there. I don't think I could have survived those two years alone when my mother fought cancer. As it was, my grades suffered and going into the military was a natural choice with my low GPA and lack of funds after all the medical bills.

"Hey, Travis!" Jade's greeting is directed at the younger cadet who's walked out, tray in hand. "How're you settling in?"

"Hi, Jade ... hey, Teresa." Travis closes the distance between him and us, settling into the seat next to me. "It's been really great! Only two weeks, but wow ... time sure has flown."

We both nod as he turns toward me with a smile. "You know, Teresa ... I've been meaning to put in a request for someone to take a look at our microwave. I'm not sure what the deal is, but sometimes it just shuts off."

As the Housing Coordinator, all service requests go to me. "Like no power? It totally just—"

Travis makes a slash across his neck with his open hand, signifying its death. "The clock resets and shit, but that's been the most annoying part so far. It hasn't happened when we needed to use it, but I suppose that's inevitable."

"For sure." Opening my iPad, I log into our service calendar. "It looks pretty open right now, and I might be able to get someone over there within twenty-four hours. I'll talk to Bruce and see if he's had any trouble with anyone else's, too. If it's a known and common problem, he'll know how to fix it. Otherwise, the microwave itself is probably faulty, and we'll get it swapped out ASAP."

Glancing up, I give Travis a slight smile. He's watching me curiously as I fill in the work ticket request with my notes. Jade asks him about who else he's met since arriving on base, while I finish up filling out all the appropriate sections. That's one of the perks of my job position. I tend to meet everyone as they come onto the base. I introduced Jade to Travis at The Pit, the one and only pub on base, about a week ago.

It isn't a huge community here. The older personnel are permanent, but the rest of the staff tends to come and go over two to four-year stints. I've been here for three years and took over the Housing Coordinator position alone in the last six months.

My mentor and team leader, Cam, handed over the reins, claiming it was just taking too much of his spare time. He's permanent, and I've never asked him how long he's been stationed here, sticking to more formal military procedure with my senior officers. I was flattered to be offered the position, especially because it meant I'm now considered full-time.

Glancing to the time in the upper corner of my screen, I realize it's already way later than I thought. "Fuck!" Hopping up, I throw my belongings into my bag, slinging it onto my shoulder. "Gotta go."

I'm across the patio and running down the steps in seconds, cursing myself for losing track of time. I need to get up into the upper hills housing where we have a group of six moving into a three bedroom this afternoon. I can't believe I missed the reminder.

"See you a little later." Jade's standing, peering over the railing from where I abandoned her at our table. We've been housing together for the last four weeks ever since I broke it off with Ted. He was the main reason I made this place full-time and stayed in the service after my required four years. Even though we've split, I don't regret staying on the base. Sure, it can be tedious, but with a friend like Jade around who could ask for anything more?

Reaching the street at the bottom of the steps, I hop into the golf cart I've been assigned for the day and take off with my foot pressing the pedal to the floor. Shooting through the narrow roads, I wave periodically at people I know as I pass them. I reach the highest level of housing, set up on the hillside and easily the most attractive and largest homes we have on base. Nothing like the tiny staff housing that Jade and I share.

Under normal circumstances, I wouldn't try to pre-walk the assignment, especially in a dormitory or staff place. But these are special guests going into high-end housing in the Sage district. Cam came by specifically this morning to make sure I saw it on my calendar, and I've already talked to Bruce who assured me that everything in the house is pristine.

Government clientele can be such elitists and, frankly, snobby. Rich people have nothing on them, and I would know. I spent summers waitressing at a golf course in high school.

Reaching the Sage housing area entry gate, I slam on the brakes, coming within inches of the barrier. Mike, the guard, just shakes his head as he walks over to scan the ID badge clipped to my military fatigues. "Cutting it close again, Teresa?"

His white teeth flash brightly against his dark skin. "You know it." Obviously, everyone does. It's not intentional. I'm extremely organized, but I just have a habit of losing track of time.

As the barrier lifts, I tap my fingers against the steering wheel impatiently. I just need five minutes to run through and open all the blinds and turn on the lights. That'll make it appear brighter and cleaner. It's an old real estate trick we employ for these three bedroom "bungalows."

Technically, I don't think they're bungalows because they're multi-level homes built strategically into the mountainside. Many of them are a little different, working with the natural landscape, although each one is undoubtedly custom designed to show off the facility.

Ignoring my surroundings, I race up to number twelve and pull into the covered parking area. I hop out of the golf cart, taking a moment to draw in a deep breath and smooth down my uniform. I may have beaten the visitors, but they could be here any second. Glancing down the road, I let out a sigh of relief to see they aren't coming up just yet as I open the front door with the keys I'll soon be handing over.

Opening the front window blinds, I move into the kitchen and drop my bag and the keys onto the island countertop. Bruce was right. The house does look pretty good, even though it's about ten years old and has its share of wear.

Leaving my iPad open to the mandatory check lists, on the island for the moment, I sprint through the rooms, pausing here and there to open the blinds and crack a few windows since the house is baking without any air conditioning running. I need to remember to close them when I walk the guests through before I leave, though.

Moving farther into the home and up to the second floor, I notice that the maintenance crew made an honest effort to get a spot out of the carpet in front of the master bedroom. This three bedroom was previously occupied by a family, which included a three-year-old who spilled a glass of juice or something. Unfortunately, they didn't tell Housing at the time, and while they tried to clean it, it stained. Thankfully, it's only a shadow in the hall now.

Stopping at the thermostat, I make sure the AC is on before starting my descent to the first floor.

"Hello?"

My body goes on high alert at the deep, raspy voice calling out from the lower level. I can't see him yet, but he doesn't sound like the overweight, haughty bureaucrat I was expecting. When I reach the bottom of the stairs, I turn to the door, expecting him to be waiting for me, but I don't see anyone.

I turn the other way, walk through the living room, up the three steps into the kitchen, before stopping when I see a mammoth man standing in front of the kitchen sink, looking out the back window. It's the perfect time of day to see the sun hovering just above the mountain and cut through the windows. Good fucking lord.

I feel my heart pounding in my chest, and my breathing shoots to a new level of danger. For the first time in my life I feel downright light-headed as I stare at someone. My mouth can't move. It just hangs open slightly, ignoring my instructions to say something. Anything.

He must have heard me come in, but he doesn't utter a sound or turn around, which gives me ample opportunity to admire his lovely backside. The way the light dances off the profile of his classic features creates a prism effect on his skin that makes me feel even more in awe.

This man is beautiful.

CHAPTER TWO

\- Teresa

Yeah, yeah. I know. Men aren't supposed to be called beautiful, but the sight of this one inspires nothing less. Except for the fact that he's turning me into a nervous fool.

He's dressed in a white shirt with the sleeves casually rolled up, exposing his impressively muscled and very masculine looking forearms. Am I seriously admiring his forearms?

When he turns toward me, I watch the way his full lips tilt up slightly as he jerks slightly, clearly startled realizing I'm standing right next to him. He had to have heard me walk through the house, but he looks as shocked to see me looking at him as I am to be looking at such a perfect specimen of man. Holy hotness.

I'm exposed to the full impact of his size as he makes his way around the island, walking slowly toward where I had stopped just inside the doorway. Gulping, I have to concentrate to make sure I don't choke on my own drool. He's so perfect it's almost painful.

His hair is dark and artfully combed tight to his head in a modern style. His eyes catch the light from the windows next to him, flashing an almost iridescent blue and contrasting against the lightly tanned skin of his face. When he smiles ... oh lordy, he's devastating.

"Miss Bradfeld?" His hand moves up between us, reaching for a handshake, but I'm still frozen in shock, wondering if this is a mistake. I only barely notice his accent, though I can't place where it's from. I've seen good looking men before, of course. But he's not just good looking—he's better than movie star perfect.

When my hand refuses to meet his, his own drops, and he studies me curiously. "I'm Payak. It's nice to meet you." Moving past me on my left, he steps down into the family room. He must sense my uncomfortable shock. Now that he's moved away, though, I give my body a stern talking to. What the hell? Get it together!

Ungluing my feet from the floor, I quickly move to the island and pick up my iPad. Not looking at him behind me, I put in the passcode and look over my checklist while shaking off my earlier awe and dropping back into my routine for walk-throughs. "Have you ever stayed here before?"

Duh. Of course not. I know this ... it's right here. When I don't get an answer, I just hope he didn't hear me. Where did he go?

Turning around, I look over into the family room, but I don't see him. Descending into the room, I catch sight of him in the laundry room, inspecting the washer and dryer. Leaning against the door jamb, I watch him run his finger over the top of the dryer, looking for dust. He won't find any here. These places are kept military clean.

As I walk over, he looks up and jerks his head back, turning to look behind himself quickly before facing me with wide eyes. "I'm sorry," I say. Holding out my hand to him, I step into the tiny room that has a full bathroom with a stand up shower along with the washer and dryer. "My name is Teresa."

This time, his hand is slow to come up, as though he's unsure if he wants to touch me now. He towers over me as he accepts my much smaller grasp in his. I'm surprised by how nervous he feels. His hand has a slight shake to it and clamminess. Despite that, my entire body shudders at the small, innocuous connection. It feels like I've touched a live wire, sending wave after wave of vibrating pleasure up my arm.

An awed look crosses his face as we both pull our hands back in shock. That was weird. Definitely a new one for me, but I am insanely attracted to him. Embarrassingly so.

"Teresa." I watch his lips as he mumbles my name. It takes all my self-control not to groan. He can't talk around me. Standing this close, his voice sends the same shocking vibration through my body.

"Yes, Teresa." Spinning around, I leave the tiny room, taking a few steps away to gather my thoughts before turning back to him. Now he's the one that appears to be off in his own little world, staring at his hand with a curious expression. Even with the air on, I can feel the sweat pooling at the small of my back.

Seeming to suddenly come back to his senses, Payak shoves his hands into his pockets and shakes his head slightly. He steps over to the shower stall, opening and closing it idly. Rather than be alone with this man who's making me speechless, I walk deeper into the family room and look down at my iPad for guidance.

What am I doing again? Ah, yes.

Based on his actions, I'd definitely say he hasn't stayed here before. "I've got a copy of your intake form. It looks like there are six of you in your group?"

Exiting the room, he nods. He walks over to the fireplace on the opposite side of the family room, checking out the chairs on either side and the flat screen hanging above it on the wall. He runs his hand along the back of the chairs as he circles the area, appearing to be fascinating as if he's never seen a pair of chairs or a television mounted on the wall.

"Can I get you anything to drink?" I walk back up into the kitchen, opening the fridge to confirm the basics have been stocked. It all looks clean as I pull out a bottled water and shake it invitingly toward him as he walks over to the entryway to the kitchen.

I watch as he hovers at the bottom of the stairs for a few moments before starting up them, looking at me expectantly. "No, thank you."

Nodding, I place it back inside the fridge before marking on the checklist that everything in the kitchen looks good. Opening and shutting the dishwasher, I work around the room's lower cabinets before coming back the other way on the uppers. The dishwasher's emptied, place settings, including glasses and silverware, are stocked. No complaints so far.

Ignoring me, Payak wanders back into the living room. "Teresa?" His voice vibrates through the air toward me. How does he do that?

Clasping my iPad against my chest in a futile attempt to hide my hardening nipples, I move into the front room. "Yes?"

"Can I go up the stairs here?" He's pointing to the second level with all the bedrooms. I've never had anyone who's stayed in one of these nice places ask me for permission for anything. Ever.

Good looking and polite. I wasn't even aware that was possible. "Yes, please." I leave the kitchen and walk over to where he's standing. Smiling, I grab the end of the handrail, gesturing up the stairs with my iPad.

Damn, Teresa. Looking down at my screen, I feign reading my checklist as he walks up the steps ahead of me. Oh, yeah. His ass looks perfect as the material flexes across his tight butt. There's a good chance he has the sexiest walk I've ever seen...

When he reaches the top, he looks back at me, and I'm shaken out of my reverie. Caught staring, but whatever. My feet follow him with very little direction, which is good since my brain is absolutely fried. I'll blame it on the heat.

"So, where do we start?" He's looking right at me, forcing me to look up and acknowledge him. When he smiles, I practically swoon.

He watches me carefully as I cross in front of him and we finally break eye contact as I enter the master. "Does everything look okay?" Instead of waiting for him, I walk all the way into the en-suite bathroom, poking my head into the linen closet to make sure everything is set.

"Oh, yes." His footsteps echo on the tile in the well-appointed bathroom.

"Well, this is the only bedroom with its own private bath, but the other two rooms are almost identical and share a bathroom between them." Trying not to look at him, I brush by him, shocked at the strange awareness I have for him. I definitely am not imagining it!

I can feel my face burning as I cut through the bedroom and back into the hall. Pressing my back against the wall outside the door, I take a deep breath and will my blush to fade. Even with my hair up, I feel hot and bothered. Fanning myself with my iPad, I stop and straighten as I hear him exit the bathroom.

"Will you be staying long?" Because I'm absolutely dying to know. I immediately start trying to justify the question. "It's just, we have weekly laundry and cleaning services, but if you're staying over a month, we'll want to make sure we coordinate other cleaning like the decks—"

"I'm not sure," he answers from the bedroom.

"Oh, okay." The profile on his group was extremely basic. Now that I've met him, you can bet I'll be going back to read it more carefully. With a name like Payak, and that accent ... I'm curious where he's from.

Eventually, I'll hear. I always do. Except for everyone's favorite television shows, what else are we going to gossip about?

And inevitably, I'll hear who hooks up with whom in his group. There are plenty of women around here that are just waiting for the drive-bys—the "in and outs"—regardless of their relationship status. They pounce on them whether they're wearing rings or not. They don't want anything serious.

I hear him rummaging in the closet, checking drawers in the built-in shelving. "There should be extra sheets and blankets..."

"Yes." He walks out the door, gazing down at me with a smile. "There were. In the closet."

Oh, yeah. If I hadn't just broken up with Ted ... I might even join the drive-by group. This guy, though ... he has heartbreak and workaholic written all over him. The way he looks so perfect ... the hair ... yeah, he might as well be a carbon copy of Ted.

Better looking, though. I never felt this with Ted. It draws me right in.

But, still ... casual relationships aren't me. As tempting as he is ...

When he grabs my hand gently, pulling me down the hall, I'm so shocked I don't even pull away. Instead, I let him lead me into one of the back bedrooms.

Don't miss the Sinth Strain Series!

The first book Sinth Seeker is now LIVE on Amazon

& the entire series is available on Kindle Unlimited.
