 
Sounds of Many Waters

Bobby A. Troutt

Copyright 2015 by Bobby A. Troutt

Smashwords Edition

Thank you for downloading this free ebook. You are welcome to share it with your friends. This book may be reproduced, copied and distributed for non-commercial purposes, provided the book remains in its complete original form. Thank you for your support.

Table of Contents

If there is a Problem Then There is a Solution, Jesus Christ

We are created in the Image of God; but, we take After the Devil

The Race is Not Always to the Swift, but to Those who Keep on Running

How Much You Want to Change Will be As Far As You Will Go

Where is the Promise of His Coming?

John 3:16

It's Always the Darkest before the Dawn

*****

Sounds of Many Waters

If there is a Problem Then There is a Solution, Jesus Christ

Thought to Keep in Mind:

Proverbs 22:6

Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it.

I want you to search your heart and ask yourself some questions, today. If you are away from the Lord or not where you used to be in your spiritual relationship with him, where do you stand? Remember how things used to be when you once walked close with God, that unspeakable peace, joy and love in your heart and life. Remember how it was when you used to walk and talk with the Lord and you had that close serenity of joy in your heart. If there is a problem then there is a solution, Jesus Christ. I don't care what the problem is, no matter how big or small it may seem, Jesus Christ is the solution. If you have problems at home, church, work, in marriage, in yourself or someone else or money, Jesus is the solution. Have you gone back out into the world? If so, Jesus Christ is the only solution in your heart and life.

John 14:6

Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.

It is your choice. It is your decision. But, he is there to help you.

II Peter 2:21

For it had been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than, after they have known it, to turn from the holy commandment delivered unto them.

II Peter 2:22

But it is happened unto them according to the true proverb. The dog is turned to his own vomit again; and the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire.

I am talking about truly being saved. I'm not talking about going up to an altar or wherever to cry a little bit, feel better, get up as lost as you were when you knelt down and then go back out into the world. I'm talking about truly being saved and knowing it in your heart, mind and life of that change made in your heart but then you give up on the Lord and go back out into the world. If you have turned your back on the Lord or are not where you used to be or whatever your problem may be, there is a solution in Jesus Christ the son of the true and living God; the gift of eternal life. What choice will you choose?

Scripture Reading – Luke 15:11-32

Luke 15:11

And he said, A certain man had two sons:

Luke 15:12

And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living.

The Bible said, "A certain man had two sons." Notice here, the younger son asked his father for his portion of goods. Notice here, this young man's desire changed. His wants changed and his love changed. He said, "Give me the portion of my goods that falleth to me." His father divided the goods. Notice, too, it was the young man's choice to leave and to make a change he thought was best for himself. He had his mind made up. In verse 13, he had it all planned out.

Luke 15:13

And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living.

He thought everything was going to be great and everything was going to be all right. Have you ever been there? Have you ever walked in the shoes of this young man? Have you made that decision in your walk? Have your wants, desires and love changed? Do you want to go back home? Are you sick of your life? Are you tired? Are you waiting to go home? Jesus loves you. Jesus didn't walk away from you, you walked away from him like this young man did. Notice, too, this young man wasn't a very bad person. He was probably a pretty good old fellow. Notice, he only asked for his portion of goods. He didn't want it all; he only wanted his part. I believe, he was a just man. He didn't try to steal his brother's portion, too. He wasn't greedy or selfish. He just wanted whatever was his. There are good people out there in this world, today, that have simply turned their back on God. They are good and just people who need to return home. If you have a problem then there is a solution, Jesus Christ. If you will return to Jesus, he will make all things right.

Luke 15:13

And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living.

Luke 15:14

And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want.

There must have been something missing in his life or at least he thought there was. He went out and took a journey into a far country. He went as far away from home as he could to search for that emptiness in his life. He wasted his substance with righteous living. He tried everything he could to try to fill that emptiness inside. He tried to fill the empty love in his life with worldly things. Have you lost the joy of your salvation which is the love and desire of God in your heart and life? Have you backslid, today, from the Lord? Are you in a far country away from God trying everything you can to fill the peace, love and joy in your heart? You will never find it in the world. It only comes through Jesus. Have you that emptiness, today? Notice, he went to a faraway country. He thought there was nothing there at home or around home to fill his need. His loved had changed. His desires had changed and he was blinded by the things of the world so he journeyed into a far country. Just how far will you run from God?

Luke 15:14

And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want.

How deep in the hog pen of sin will you go before you take a good look at yourself and begin to realize if there is a problem then there is a solution, Jesus Christ. Jesus wants you just as you are.

Luke 15:15

And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine.

Notice, he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country and he sent himself into his fields to feed the swine. Listen to David's prayer when he sinned and got away from the Lord.

Psalm 51:1

Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy lovingkindness: according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgressions.

Psalm 51:2

Wash me throughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.

Psalm 51:3

For I acknowledge my transgressions: and my sin is ever before me.

David said, "Have mercy upon me O' God." David realized something and he called out unto God. Do you, today, want to keep on being away from the Lord? Do you want to spend your life feeding the swine? Do you want to continue on in the so-called happiness of the sins of this world? Or, do you want to be like David and return unto God?

Psalm 51:2

Wash me throughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.

Psalm 51:3

For I acknowledge my transgressions: and my sin is ever before me.

How is it with you, today? It is your choice, your decision. You must take the first step and that is to fall down on your knees, through repentance, beneath the old rugged cross.

Luke 15:16

And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no man gave unto him.

He filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat. How far will you go? What have you come to? What have you become?

Psalm 51:4

Against thee, thee only, have I sinned, and done this evil in thy sight: that thou mightiest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest.

Psalm 51:5

Behold, I was shapen in iniquity; and in sin did my mother conceive me.

Psalm 51:6

Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts: and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom.

Jesus wants you just as you are. Jesus loves you, today. Will you look up to the Lord and come home?

Luke 15:17

And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger!

David said,

Psalm 51:7

Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.

Psalm 51:8

Make me to hear joy and gladness; that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice.

Psalm 51:9

Hide thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities.

Psalm 51:10

Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me.

Psalm 51:11

Cast me not away from thy presence; and take not thy holy spirit from me.

Psalm 51:12

Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation; and uphold me with thy free spirit.

Listen to the condition David was in. "Purge me with hyssop, wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Cleanse me. Create in me a clean heart and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away and restore the joy of thy salvation." This was a man who had once walked with God. He was the apple of his eye. He once knew the blessings of God. He was now a man away from God, separated because of sin. How is it with you? Will you humble yourself before God through his son Jesus Christ, repent and come back to God. Notice, the condition the prodigal son got in before he went home to be a servant. We need to humble ourselves, now, as a servant and go home to God. If there is a problem then there is a solution, Jesus Christ. Are you willing to be a servant, today?

Luke 15:20

And he arose, and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him.

Luke 15:21

And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son.

Luke 15:22

But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet:

Luke 15:23

And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it; and let us eat, and be merry:

Luke 15:24

For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry.

What a great homecoming it would be if you went back home to Jesus by picking up the cross and following him. For, I believe there would be shouting in heaven if you returned home and let Jesus be the Lord of your life. If there is a problem then there is a solution, Jesus Christ. Notice, the prodigal son left and went to a far country. There evidently wasn't much at home for him or so he thought. But, look and see where he ended up. He ended up back home with his father. Everything was filled. His desires, love and wants had changed back. He had been restored.

Luke 15:24

For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry.

How is it with you? What have you been searching for and missing in your life? Is it what you left behind which is Jesus Christ the son of the true and living God? It doesn't matter what the problem is in your life or how far away you may seem, you will find the answer to all your questions at the foot of the old rugged cross by and through the precious blood and life of Jesus Christ.

Luke 15:25

Now his elder son was in the field: and as he came and drew nigh to the house, he heard musick and dancing.

Luke 15:26

And he called one of the servants, and asked what these things meant.

Luke 15:27

And he said unto him, Thy brother is come; and thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe and sound.

Luke 15:28

And he was angry, and would not go in: therefore came his father out, and intreated him.

Luke 15:29

And he answering said to his father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment: and yet thou never gavest me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends:

Luke 15:30

But as soon as this thy son was come, which hath devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fatted calf.

Although his oldest son became angry and would not go in, we find that our heavenly father takes care of all our needs.

Luke 15:31

And he said unto him, Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine.

Luke 15:32

It was meet that we should make merry, and be glad; for this thy brother was dead, and is alive again; and was lost, and is found.

Praise God. For this my brother was dead but now he is alive again. He was lost and is found. Will you, today, choose to go home? Will you take a good look at yourself and your life and be willing to become a servant and return home?

Luke 15:8

Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find it?

Luke 15:9

And when she hath found it, she calleth her friends and her neighbours together, saying, Rejoice with me; for I have found the piece which I had lost.

Luke 15:10

Likewise, I say unto you there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth.

Have you found the missing piece in your life? Look no further; it is Jesus.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Luke 15:1

Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him.

Luke 15:2

And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them.

Luke 15:3

And he spake this parable unto them, saying,

Luke 15:4

What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it?

Luke 15:5

And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing.

Luke 15:6

And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbours, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; for I have found my sheep which was lost.

Luke 15:7

I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no repentance.

If there is a problem then there is a solution, Jesus Christ.

Luke 15:4

What man of you, having an hundred sheep, it he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it?

~~~~~

As we journey through this walk of life, there are times we stand at crossroads and roads that fork. Sometimes, we lose our direction and don't always know which way to go. We are faced with a choice. Choices made on our own, without prayer and seeking God's will, most of the time leads us down the wrong road. We are faced with consequences we have to pay. Wrong roads in our life teaches us some of the best lessons in life. If the lesson is learned, the road taken is not wasted.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

So many times, we fail to wait for the Lord to seek his time and will for us. It is so easy to become impatient. We, so many times, try to do it ourselves. We wind up putting the cart before the horse and things just don't work out. But, if we will let the Lord handle it and be patient, things will work out for us. Not my will but your will, Lord, be done. It's hard for the Lord to work in our lives when we don't surrender it all unto him. Let go and let God do his work. Be patient. If it is God's will, it will be done.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Sounds of Many Waters

We are created in the Image of God; but, we take After the Devil

Thought to Keep in Mind:

Genesis 1:26

And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.

Genesis 1:27

So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them.

Genesis 1:28

And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.

And God said, "Let us make man in his own image." We are created in the image of God; but, we take after the devil. What does the people of the world see in you? Do they see Christ or do they see the world? Do they see a change made in you or do you look, act and smell like the world? Do they see a light and a hope in you or do you blend in with the rest of the world? I want to talk to you about making a change in your life. I want you to search out your heart and life and ask yourself the following question. What does the people of the world see in me? Do they see Christ? We are created in the image of God; but, we take after the devil.

Scripture Reading

Genesis 2:8

And the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he put the man whom he had formed.

Genesis 2:9

And out of the ground made the Lord God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.

Genesis 2:10

And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence it was parted, and became into four heads.

And the Lord God planted a garden Eastward of Eden.

Genesis 3:1

Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?

Genesis 3:2

And the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden:

Genesis 3:3

But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die.

Genesis 3:4

And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die:

We find in the beginning, in the Garden of Eden, that the old devil, the serpent, talked to Eve and said, "Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?"

John 8:44

Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it.

The devil was a murderer in the beginning and the truth was not in him. The devil was a liar and the father of it. Eve told the serpent, "God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it (talking about the tree of knowledge of good and evil), neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die." The serpent said unto Eve, "Ye shall not surely die."

I Peter 5:8

Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour:

Has the devil been talking to you lately? Has he been painting you a pretty picture? Have you been flirting around the cesspools of sin and suffered a spiritual death? Does the devil have you caught up in the lust of the world? Does he have you bound down with sin in your life?

II Corinthians 6:17

Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing; and I will receive you,

We are created in the image of God; but, we take after the devil. Is your light shining? Can the people of the world see Jesus in you? Do they see a hope? Can they tell a change has been made in your life? Do they want what you have? Or, are you caught up in the world like them? The old serpent told Eve, "Ye shall not surely die."

James 1:12

Blessed is the man that endureth temptation: for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him.

James 1:13

Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God: for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempeth he any man:

James 1:14

But every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed.

James 1:15

Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin: and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death.

If you keep on fooling around with sin, you'll see real quick that you will die. No one will have to tell you because you will know it in your heart.

Genesis 3:5

For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.

And the serpent told Eve, "That in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil."

II Corinthians 11:14

And no marvel; for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light.

The old serpent tried to make things look really good to Eve. What about you? Has the devil offered you something of the world? Has he created a beautiful picture of something to you?

James 4:7

Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.

James 4:8

Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners; and purify your hearts, ye double minded.

You better be careful; resist the devil and draw nigh unto God. Flee him and be set free, today, through the precious blood of Jesus Christ the son of God.

Genesis 3:6

And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her; and he did eat.

Eve saw that the tree was good for food and it was pleasant to the eyes, a tree to be desired.

Matthew 16:24

Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.

Matthew 16:25

For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it.

Matthew 16:26

For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?

Eve took of the fruit and did eat. She also gave to her husband and he did eat.

Romans 5:12

Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:

We are created in the image of God; but, we take after the devil.

Romans 6:23

For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

"For the wages of sin is death." Through the disobedience and sin of Adam, sin and death was passed on to all mankind.

Romans 5:8

But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son (Jesus) to forgive sin and be set free.

Romans 5:17

For if by one man's offence death reigned by one; much more they which receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ.)

Romans 5:18

Therefore as by the offence of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation; even so by the righteousness of one the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life.

Romans 5:19

For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous.

Romans 5:20

Moreover the law entered, that the offence might abound. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound:

Romans 5:21

That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord.

The gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Romans 3:23

For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God;

Romans 3:10

As it is written, There is none righteous, no, not one:

Because of the fall of Adam the fellowship between God and man was broken because of sin. Are you walking in fellowship with God, today? Are you walking a close walk with him? Are you ready for the second coming of Christ? Are you ready to meet him in the air or will you be left behind because you are still like the world and because you are still pursuing the things of the devil? Jesus is coming for his people. The people who are without spot or blemish and those whose sins are forgiven and washed in his precious blood. How is your garment, today, before a righteous and Holy God?

Genesis 3:7

And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons.

Notice the garment of Adam and Eve when the voice of God came walking in the cool of the day. They had sewn fig leaves together and made aprons. Their eyes were opened and they saw they were naked. They saw how they really stood before a holy and righteous God. How do you stand before him? We can't hide sin from God. We can't hide our self from him because he sees and knows all things. He knows our hearts, our thoughts and our ways. We are created in the image of God; but, we take after the devil.

Romans 8:1

There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.

Romans 8:2

For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me free from the law of sin and death.

Romans 8:3

For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh:

Romans 8:4

That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.

Romans 8:5

For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh; but they that are after the Spirit the things of the Spirit.

Romans 8:6

For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace.

Romans 8:7

Because the carnal mind is enmity against God: for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be.

Romans 8:8

So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God.

I ask you, what does the people of the world see in you? Do they see Jesus or do they see the world? Can they see a change in you and your life? I am talking about a spiritual birth, a born again birth unto the spirit of the true and living God. Adam's and Eve's eyes were opened. They saw they were naked; they saw how they stood before God. Are you, today, walking in the carnal, fleshly mind or are you walking in the spirit of the living God?

Romans 8:6

For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace.

Does the people of the world see Jesus in you? Do they see a change?

Genesis 3:8

And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden.

Genesis 3:9

And the Lord God called unto Adam, and said unto him, Where art thou?

Is there any wrong in your life? Is there anything that is not right before the true and living God? Is Jesus dealing with you about something? Today is the day of salvation for tomorrow may be the judgment. Let Jesus help you. Let him make things right. Stop hiding behind the trouble of it all. Come out, pray and talk with him. He loves you, today. The Lord God said, "Where art thou?" Where are you, today? Is everything all right? Are you running, today, from the Lord? Are you tired of it? If so, step out from amongst the tree, the problem or whatever it may be, like Adam did and talk with the Lord.

Genesis 3:10

And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.

Genesis 3:11

And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat?

Whatever you may be facing, step out and face it with the Lord. Be honest, be sincere, be humble and pray; I believe he will listen.

Romans 6:1

What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound?

Romans 6:2

God forbid. How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein?

Romans 6:3

Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death?

Romans 6:4

Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life.

Romans 6:5

For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection:

Romans 6:6

Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin.

Romans 6:7

For he that is dead is freed from sin.

What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? "God forbid."

Genesis 3:12

And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat.

Genesis 3:13

And the Lord God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.

Don't try to blame someone else or pass the buck for what you have done. Each one of us, every man and woman, will have to stand on our own and be accountable for our self and no one else.

I John 1:5

This then is the message which we have heard of him, and declare unto you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all.

I John 1:6

If we say that we have fellowship with him, and walk in darkness, we lie, and do not the truth:

I John 1:7

But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin.

I John 1:8

If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.

I John 1:9

If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.

I John 1:10

If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.

What does the people of the world see in you? Do they see Jesus? If they don't see Jesus, you need to fix things so they can. All you have to do is kneel beneath the old rugged cross. Are you a light in the dark and dying world? Have you been chosen and called out to let your light shine so the world can see a hope? The only hope is (Jesus Christ) the son of God our Lord and Savior.

John 3:16

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

John 3:17

For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.

Will you, today, come out of hiding and let Jesus make things right so you can be a light for Christ in this dark, dying and sin-sick world?

Romans 6:8

Now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him:

Romans 6:9

Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more; death hath no more dominion over him.

Romans 6:10

For in that he died, he died unto sin once: but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God.

Romans 6:11

Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Romans 6:12

Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the lusts thereof.

Romans 6:13

Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin: but yield yourselves unto God, as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God.

Romans 6:14

For sin shall not have dominon over you: for yea are not under the law, but under grace.

Romans 6:15

What then? shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but under grace? God forbid.

"Greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world." Jesus said, "Be of good cheer; I have overcome the world." In Christ Jesus, you can be an overcomer by and through his virgin birth, his blood, death and resurrection.

I John 2:15

Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him.

I John 2:16

For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world.

I John 2:17

And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof; but he that doeth the will of God abideth for ever.

Walk therefore in the spirit of God. Walk close in all truth by and through the leadership of the Holy Ghost of God. We need to walk with the total completeness of Jesus Christ and with the fullness of God's blessing in our heart and life. It all started in the beginning, in the garden, with a little talk with the devil.

Genesis 3:4

And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die:

Who are you listening to, today? Are you listening to the voice of God or the devil?

Genesis 3:13

And the Lord God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.

Eve said, "The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat." We are created in the image of God; but, we take after the devil

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Genesis 3:22

And the Lord God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us, to know good and evil: and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever:

Genesis 3:23

Therefore the Lord God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence he was taken.

Genesis 3:24

So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life.

"The Lord God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence he was taken."

II Peter 2:19

While they promise them liberty, they themselves are the servants of corruption: for of whom a man is overcome, of the same is he brought in bondage.

II Peter 2:20

For if after they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, they are again entangled therein, and overcome, the latter end is worse with them than the beginning.

II Peter 2:21

For it had been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than, after they have known it, to turn from the holy commandment delivered unto them.

II Peter 2:22

But it is happened unto them according to the true proverb, The dog is turned to his own vomit again; and the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire.

We are created in the image of God; but, we take after the devil. Does the people of the world see Jesus in you?

~~~~~

The devil will do everything he can to bind you, tie you up and hold you back. He will try to cripple and rob you of your blessings. He will keep you troubled and uneasy. He will keep you worried and in doubt. And, he will try to control you with fear. But, fear not; be not afraid. Don't be worried or uneasy for our God is a living and true God for his children. Through Jesus Christ, his only son, we can find victory. Don't worry; if God has brought you this far, he'll bring you through again. Believe and have faith in him and in him alone. Jesus loves you.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

The world is getting darker and darker each day. The Lord God is preparing to send his only son, Jesus Christ our Lord, to get his bride. When the Lord God gets the world ready, the world will not be like it was in the past. It won't be like we knew it yesterday. The world is subject to change in the blink of an eye, at any given moment. Be ready and prepared, at all times, for the coming of Christ our Lord.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Sounds of Many Waters

The Race is Not Always to the Swift, but to Those who Keep on Running

Thought to Keep in Mind:

II Timothy 4:6

For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand.

II Timothy 4:7

I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith:

II Timothy 4:8

Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day: and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing.

There is work to be done in the kingdom of the Lord. Are you tired? Are you about ready to give up? Have you asked yourself the question what is the use? Everyone wants to wear the crown but nobody wants to bear the cross. Jesus didn't promise us a rose garden and he didn't say everything would be easy. He promised us he would be with us and would never leave nor forsake us. Christians, there is work to be done. It is time to do what God has called us to do. When we lay down our cross, we also lay down our crown. The race is not always to the swift, but to those who keep on running.

Scripture Reading – I Kings 17

I Kings 17:1

And Elijah the Tishbite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead, said unto Ahab, As the Lord God of Israel liveth, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word.

I Kings 17:2

And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying,

I Kings 17:3

Get thee hence, and turn thee eastward, and hide thyself by the brook Cherith, that is before Jordan.

I Kings 17:4

And it shall be, that thou shalt drink of the brook; and I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there.

I Kings 17:5

So he went and did according unto the word of the Lord: for he went and dwelt by the brook Cherith, that is before Jordan.

I Kings 17:6

And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening; and he drank of the brook.

I Kings 17:7

And it came to pass after a while, that the brook dried up, because there had been no rain in the land.

We find in verses 1-7 of a man, Elijah. The word of the Lord came to him and told him, "There shall not be dew nor rain these years."

James 5:17

Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain: and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months.

James 5:18

And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit.

The word of the Lord came unto Elijah and he dwelt by the brook. Elijah drank from the brook and the Lord sent the ravens to feed him; the ravens brought him bread and meat. Think about how God had sent a drought but he still made a way for Elijah. No matter how bad things may get or how hard the times will get, God will always make a way for his people. During this tribulation, Elijah went to the place where God led him and he drank and ate. God will make a way. Jesus is our way. We find in verses 8-24 the word of the Lord came to Elijah again after the brook had dried up because of the drought. The Lord sent him to a widow woman. God saw the need of Elijah and he knows our needs. We need to pray and seek the will of God in our lives so that we can drink of the living water.

John 4:13

Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again:

John 4:14

But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life.

Are you, today, drinking from the water which will never dry up? Are you eating of the bread of life which is our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? Sometimes, there are circumstances and situations in our lives that are out of our control. Things happen and things change. We need to seek the face of God and let him lead us in the midst of our trials and tribulations. We need to wait for God and be ready to move when the Lord speaks. Listen to Jesus; listen to what he says to you. Is he knocking upon your heart's door? Is he telling you to be still and know that he is God?

John 16:33

These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.

We must endure the trials and tribulations; "for greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world." Notice where the Lord sent Elijah. He sent him to the widow woman whose son was sick. He was fed and he drank. Even during the drought, the Lord was still working in Elijah's life. Notice how Elijah took his mind off himself and put it on others. Elijah prayed for the widow woman's sick son and the son was made well. If we will be submissive to the Holy Spirit of God, God will still work in our lives and in others. Although Elijah was going through something himself, he was able to help others.

Scripture Reading – I Kings 18

I Kings 18:1

And it came to pass after many days, that the word of the Lord came to Elijah in the third year, saying, Go, shew thyself unto Ahab; and I will send rain upon the earth.

We find in verse 1 that God told Elijah he was going to send the rain. We need to be prepared and ready to go when Jesus speaks to our hearts through the power of the Holy Ghost of God. When we go with the power and the leadership of the Holy Ghost of God, we will see results.

I Kings 18:44

And it came to pass at the seventh time, that he said, Behold, there ariseth a little cloud out of the sea, like a man's hand. And he said, Go up, say unto Ahab, Prepare thy chariot, and get thee down, that the rain stop thee not.

Elijah saw a little cloud arise out of the sea like a man's hand.

I Kings 18:45

And it came to pass in the mean while, that the heaven was black with clouds and wind, and there was a great rain. And Ahab rode, and went to Jezreel.

The heaven became black with clouds and wind, and there was a great rain. God told Elijah it was going to rain. Elijah heard God say it was going to rain and it rained. Can you imagine how it must have been when Elijah looked out and saw a cloud about the size of a man's hand? Can you imagine what he must have thought and felt? Just think, the cloud was no bigger than a man's hand but it only took a touch from God, from heaven, to deliver the rain. It hadn't rained in three and a half years. However, it began to rain from a cloud no bigger than a man's hand. No matter how hopeless it may seem, the God of Abraham, Isaac and the God of Israel can deliver.

Matthew 17:20

And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief: for verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you.

God can take even the smallest things in our lives and work mightily in them to deliver us and see us through. We need to listen to the still voice of God. We find in I Kings chapter 18 that Elijah met with Ahab, the husband of Jezebel, and Ahab sent for the prophets to gather unto mount Carmel.

I Kings 18:20

So Ahab sent unto all the children of Israel, and gathered the prophets together unto mount Carmel.

I Kings 18:21

And Elijah came unto all the people, and said, How long halt ye between two opinions? if the Lord be God, follow him: but if Baal, then follow him. And the people answered him not a word.

Elijah said unto the people, "How long halt ye between two opinions?" The people had a choice between the Lord God and Baal. I ask you, today, who have you chosen to serve? Have you chosen Christ to live or have you chosen the devil to die in sin? How long will you halt between two opinions? We read on about the two altars which were made. The altar of Baal, nothing! But, fire fell from the altar of God. The power of the living God moved and Elijah slew all the prophets of Baal. Who, today, have you chosen to serve? Did you choose the living God?

Scripture Reading – I King 19

I Kings 19:1

And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and withal how he had slain all the prophets with the sword.

I Kings 19:2

Then Jezebel sent a messenger unto Elijah, saying, So let the gods do to me, and more also, if I make not thy life as the life of one of them by tomorrow about this time.

Ahab told Jezebel about Elijah and she sent word that she was going to kill him. I want to say, the children of God, who are bearing the cross of Jesus Christ the son of God, shall be prosecuted. The devil and the enemy is out there to kill and destroy them. The people of the world will hate them and despise them. Are you bearing your cross for Jesus? If you are bearing the cross for Jesus, the world will reject you and persecute you. Here was a man named Elijah who the enemy was out to get, kill and destroy. Elijah was tired, worn out, hungry and felt sorry for himself.

I Kings 19:4

But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, and came and sat down under a juniper tree: and he requested for himself that he might die; and said, It is enough; now, O Lord, take away my life; for I am not better than my fathers.

He sat down under a juniper tree. "It is enough; now, O Lord, take my life," he said. The trials of his tribulations had reached their toll. Have you ever been there? Have you ever reached the point where you wanted to say, take me on; I've had enough? God was still moving in Elijah's life. Elijah quickly moved but was in a state of fear and depression. Discouragement is one of the devil's strongest weapons against God's people. If we be still and hold on to Jesus, he will see us through. God took steps to restore Elijah by helping him get his strength back. Jesus works with us, today, the very same way.

I Kings 19:5

And as he lay and slept under a juniper tree, behold, then an angel touched him, and said unto him, Arise and eat.

I Kings 19:6

And he looked, and, behold, there was a cake baken on the coals, and a cruse of water at his head. And he did eat and drink, and laid him down again.

I Kings 19:7

And the angel of the Lord came again the second time, and touched him, and said, Arise and eat; because the journey is too great for thee.

I Kings 19:8

And he arose, and did eat and drink, and went in the strength of that meat forty days and forty nights unto Horeb the mount of God.

I Kings 19:9

And he came thither unto a cave, and lodged there; and, behold, the word of the Lord came to him, and he said unto him, What doest thou here, Elijah?

I Kings 19:10

And he said, I have been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts: for the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thrown down thine altars, and slain thy prophets with the sword; and I, even I only, am left; and they seek my life, to take it away.

I Kings 19:11

And he said, Go forth, and stand upon the mount before the Lord. And, behold, the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains, and brake in pieces the rocks before the Lord; but the Lord was not in the wind: and after the wind an earthquake; but the Lord was not in the earthquake:

I Kings 19:12

And after the earthquake a fire; but the Lord was not in the fire: and after the fire a still small voice.

I Kings 19:13

And it was so, when Elijah heard it, that he wrapped his face in his mantle, and went out, and stood in the entering in of the cave. And, behold, there came a voice unto him, and said, What doest thou here, Elijah?

God let Elijah catch up on his sleep. The Lord provided, once again, nourishment for him to have energy. God gave him a new vision of his power. "What doest thou here, Elijah?" You may be going through some bad trials and tribulations in your life right now. You need to ride them out, seek the face of God and listen to that still voice. God will make a way for you if you will let him move in your life and your situations. "What doest thou here, Elijah?" Have you ever been there? Do you want to quit and give up? If so, you need to pray and get your mind off of yourself and think of others. If you are sitting under a juniper tree, you need to go stand at the mouth of the cave and listen to the still voice of God. You haven't chosen Jesus, he has chosen you. For what? To be a light into the dark and dying world. You need to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ, the son of the living God, to this dark and sin-sick world. Jesus has chosen you. He did not choose you to hide your light but he chose you to let it shine so the world can see a hope. The hope of Jesus in their life; a hope of eternal life.

Matthew 9:37

Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but the labourers are few;

Matthew 9:38

Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth labourers into his harvest.

Go out into the harvest because the field (the world) is ripe for the harvest. There are people out there in the dark world looking for something in their lives. They are looking for Jesus Christ in their lives. They are empty, lonely, hurt, tired and worn. Arise, arise and eat of the harvest for the fields are white. The race is not always to the swift but to those who keep on running.

Matthew 10:16

Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves: by ye therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.

Jesus sent his sheep out into the world filled with raging wolves. But, Jesus promised he would be with them. He will lead and guide them with the Holy Spirit of God. Listen to his voice and answer when he calls. The world is a vineyard that is being pruned and shaped for the coming of the King, Jesus Christ our Lord. The dead branches and limbs shall be cut off for the fruit of the vines are ripe; Jesus Christ is the vine. Christians, the vineyard is ripe for the harvest. Get out from under the juniper tree and gather the fruit of the harvest.

Matthew 22:14

For many are called, but few are chosen

Now is the time; arise church. Arise, Christians, for tomorrow may be too late. It is time to pick up your cross and bear it. There is work to be done. God sent Jonah to a city and he may be sending you somewhere.

Luke 9:26

For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he shall come in his own glory, and in his Father's, and of the holy angels.

The race is not always to the swift, but to those who keep on running.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Genesis 3:22

And the Lord God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us, to know good and evil: and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever:

Genesis 3:23

Therefore the Lord God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence he was taken.

Genesis 3:24

So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life.

"The Lord God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence he was taken."

II Timothy 4:6

For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand.

II Timothy 4:7

I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith:

What about Jesus when he was on the cross? What if he had given up and walked away? What if he said send someone else? Where would we be? If Jesus never came and never gave his life, where would we be? I'll tell you where we would be; without a hope. Christ bore our cross for us. It is time we bore it for him. God could have sent the angel to take Jesus off the cross but he didn't. Why? Because he loves us.

Matthew 11:28

Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.

Matthew 11:29

Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.

Matthew 11:30

For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.

Take up thy cross and bear it, daily, for him. When you begin to feel down, discouraged and dishearted, just look up to that cross on Calvary's Hill at what was done for you. Remember, the race is not always to the swift, but to those who keep on running.

Philippians 4:13

I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me.

Paul said, "I can do ALL things through Christ." It may be your light and your smile that causes someone to see hope in Jesus Christ our Lord and Savior. When you lay down your cross, you lay down your crown.

~~~~~

There are those times when we are tired and worn out and the devil comes down hard against us with troubles, trials and temptations. When we try to fight spiritual battles on our own, we become weak and struggle. And, we just about give out and give up which means the devil is on our back and we can't get him off. It's hard to look up when we are bottomed out. Give it to Jesus; put it in his hands. If we trust him, he will deliver us and set us free. There is victory in Jesus and in him only.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

Life sometimes makes us feel like we are falling in and out of a hole. Trials and troubles pop up, sometimes, without any warning. They sometimes catch us off guard and the devil tries to knock us off balance, lame us and cripple us so we lose our stand with the Lord. In difficult times, we need to be steadfast and unmovable. We need to stand our ground and not be so easily shaken. We need to walk and live in the liberty of Christ our Lord.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Sounds of Many Waters

How Much You Want to Change Will Be As Far As You Will Go

Thought to Keep in Mind:

John 3:16

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

John 3:17

For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.

How much you want to change will be as far as you will go. Will you go all the way for Jesus? Will you let him have your heart since he gave his life for you? Are you ready for the second coming of Christ? Are you prepared to die and stand before the judgment? Remember this thought – How much you want to change will be as far as you will go.

Scripture Reading – Luke 19:1-10

Luke 19:1

And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho.

Luke 19:2

And, behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans, and he was rich.

Luke 19:3

And he sought to see Jesus who he was; and could not for the press, because he was little of stature.

Luke 19:4

And he ran before, and climbed up into a sycomore tree to see him: for he was to pass that way.

The Bible stated that Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. There was a man named Zacchaeus who sought to see him and he ran and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see Jesus. The sycamore tree is a large evergreen tree that grows 40-50 feet with a trunk about 20 feet wide. The trunk forks near the ground and the branches grow upward. Notice, Jesus was in the midst and passing through. Zacchaeus, a man who probably had it all in material things, was still seeking something. When Jesus is in the midst, things begin to happen. People begin to stir and things start stirring in people's lives; things begin to move. Zacchaeus ran and climbed up into the sycamore tree to see Jesus. Maybe Jesus is passing your way in your life. Maybe you are in a tree and out on a limb. I wonder, how stirred up would people be if Jesus passed through your town? Let me ask you; would you be ready to go? Would Jesus find you prepared or would you have to go straighten out some things? Jesus came to seek and to save that which was lost. How is it with you; are you prepared? Are you looking for his second coming? The Bible stated Jesus passed through Jericho. I want to, for just a moment, take you down another road called the Roman Road.

Romans 3:10

As it is written, There is none righteous, no, not one:

There is none righteous for we are all born unto sin because of the fall of Adam, in the beginning, in the Garden of Eden.

Isaiah 64:4

For since the beginning of the world men have not heard, nor perceived by the ear, neither hath the eye seen, O God, beside thee, what he hath prepared for him that waiteth for him.

Isaiah 64:5

Thou meetest him that rejoiceth and worketh righteousness, those that remember thee in thy ways: behold, thou art wroth; for we have sinned: in those is continuance, and we shall be saved.

Isaiah 64:6

But we are all as an unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags; and we all do fade as a leaf; and our iniquities, like the wind, have taken us away.

Isaiah 64:7

And there is none that calleth upon thy name, that stirreth up himself to take hold of thee: for thou hast hid thy face from us, and hast consumed us, because of our iniquities.

Isaiah 64:8

But now, O Lord, thou art our father; we are the clay, and thou our potter; and we all are the work of thy hand.

Isaiah said, "O' Lord, thou art our Father; we are the clay, and thou our potter; and we all are the work of thy hand."

Romans 3:23

For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God;

I don't care who you are. It doesn't matter how rich or poor, what position you have in life nor who you know in this walk of life, we all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There is only one way to be forgiven of our sins and that is by and through the blood of Jesus Christ the son of God. No other way will a man be forgiven and cleansed of their sins. Only through God, through the precious blood of Jesus Christ and the finished work at Calvary, will your sins be cleansed. Oh, you think you don't sin.

Ecclesiastes 7:20

For there is not a just man upon earth, that doeth good, and sinneth not.

We all have sinned and come short of the glory of God.

Ecclesiastes 7:13

Consider the work of God: for who can make that straight, which he hath made crooked?

Jesus Christ can put you on the straight and narrow road. The question is, will you let him? How much you want to change will be as far as you will go.

Romans 5:12

Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:

Because of the fall of Adam, death by sin was passed upon all men. Who? All men, me and you. No one is left out; we all have sinned.

Romans 6:23

For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Which way will you choose? Where do you want to spend eternity? No one can choose for you. It is up to you to make the choice. Is Jesus passing by your way? Is he knocking upon your heart's door for you to be saved? How much you want to change will be as far as you will go. I wonder, will you go all the way in Christ?

Romans 5:8

But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.

"For greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends." For God so loved the world, he sent his only son Jesus Christ. Even though we were yet sinners, God commendeth his love toward us. His love was his son, Jesus. Will you accept him in your heart and life? I wonder, would you be so glad to see him coming that you would run and climb up into a tree. Or, would you run and hide behind a tree because you are not ready to meet him?

Romans 10:9

That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved.

Romans 10:10

For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation.

Revelation 3:20

Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me.

Luke 19:10

For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost.

Will you accept him? Will you make peace with God because the next time Jesus comes may be too late? Today is the day of salvation because tomorrow may be the judgment. He may be passing your way. For, there is no promise of a tomorrow. How much you want to change will be as far as you go. Will you go all the way with Christ? Zacchaeus may have been a good old fellow but he still had to be saved.

Luke 19:5

And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up, and saw him, and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, and come down; for to day I must abide at thy house.

Notice, when Jesus came to the place, he looked up, saw him and called him by name. Jesus knew him. He knows us, today. He knows us by name. I wonder, how many of us know him. I am talking about knowing Jesus in our heart and in the free pardon of sin as our Savior, redeemer, deliverer, shepherd, king, Lord and the son of God and our friend? Zacchaeus had probably heard of Jesus but there was no mention of him ever meeting him. But, here was a man who ran and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see Jesus. I wonder, how much do you really want to change and just how far will you go? It is up to you.

Luke 19:6

And he made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully.

Do you remember the day, the moment and the time at an altar of prayer or where ever it was when you reached out to Jesus and accepted him in your heart and life? Remember the joy and peace you felt in your heart and life when your sins were washed away by the blood of Jesus. You were cleansed and made whole; you were set free from sin, hell and death and received the gift of eternal life. Remember that moment and time when you accepted Jesus by faith and the finished work at Calvary and received the power and victory of his empty tomb. Now, let me ask you this. How is it with you, today? Do you still have that joy; the joy of your salvation? Is it still as real as it was then? If it's not, you need to run, look for Jesus, climb high toward the heaven in prayer and let Jesus restore your joy so you can live again. Ever how much of God you want will be as far as you will go. Will you go all the way? Zacchaeus made hast and came down to where Jesus was. Zacchaeus received Jesus joyfully, open-minded and open-hearted.

Luke 19:7

And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, That he was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner.

Jesus didn't go home with Zacchaeus because he was rich or because he was chief among the publicans. Jesus went home, I believe, because Zacchaeus was a sinner and he sought to see Jesus. Jesus went to where the real need was.

Luke 19:10

For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost.

Jesus cares less about who you are. He doesn't care if you're rich or poor, what race you are or what kind of life you have lived. Jesus loves you and died for you. Will you accept him? Will you let Jesus come home with you? If so, first, you need to look for him.

Isaiah 55:6

Seek ye the Lord while he may be found, call ye upon him while he is near:

Isaiah 55:7

Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.

When you find him, you need to invite him into your heart and life.

Isaiah 48:22

There is no peace, saith the Lord, unto the wicked.

The only peace you will ever find is in Jesus Christ the son of the true and living God. By and through repentance unto God, through his son, shall a man find peace and rest for their soul. Notice, too, Zacchaeus didn't care what others said. He didn't pay them any mind. He kept his eyes on Jesus for, I believe, Zacchaeus found what he was looking for and what he needed in his life which was Jesus Christ the son of God. Zacchaeus was rich and probably had it all. But, he didn't have Jesus. He needed to be saved, the most important thing of all, so he could have eternal life.

Luke 19:8

And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the Lord; Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken any thing from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold.

How much you want to change will be as far as you will go. I wonder, will you go all the way?

Matthew 16:24

Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.

Matthew 16:25

For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it.

Matthew 16:26

For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?

Will you deny yourself? Will you come and accept Jesus through heartfelt repentance, take up his cross and follow him?

Luke 19:9

And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house forsomuch as he also is a son of Abraham.

Luke 19:10

For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost.

After Zacchaeus took Jesus in and he told Jesus what he would do. Jesus said, "This day," not yesterday or tomorrow, "salvation come to this house." Are you willing to be like Zacchaeus by talking with Jesus and making things right?

Romans 10:13

For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.

How much you want to change will be as far as you will go. How much of God do you want? It is either all or none. You can't ride the fence. Which do you love the most; sin and death or peace and eternal life?

Luke 18:26

And they that heard it said, Who then can be saved?

You can be saved if you meet Jesus, on his terms, at the foot of the O' rugged cross.

Luke 19:10

For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost.

How much you want to change will be as far as you will go. I wonder, how far will you go?

Scripture Reading

Mark 5:1

And they came over unto the other side of the sea, into the country of the Gadarenes.

Mark 5:2

And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit.

Mark 5:3

Who had his dwelling among the tombs; and no man could bind him, no, not with chains:

Mark 5:4

Because that he had been often bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been plucked asunder by him, and the fetters broken in pieces: neither could nay man tame him.

Mark 5:5

And always, night and day, he was in the mountains, and in the tombs, crying, and cutting himself with stones.

Mark 5:6

But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him,

Mark 5:7

And cried with a loud voice, and said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of the most high God? I adjure thee by God, that thou torment me not.

Mark 5:8

For he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit.

Mark 5:9

And he asked him, What is thy name? And he answered, saying, My name is Legion: for we are many.

Mark 5:10

And he besought him much that he would not send them away out of the country.

Mark 5:11

Now there was there nigh unto the mountains a great herd of swine feeding.

Mark 5:12

And all the devils besought him, saying, Send us into the swine, that we may enter into them.

Mark 5:13

And forthwith Jesus gave them leave. And the unclean spirits went out, and entered into the swine: and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the sea, (they were about two thousand;) and were choked in the sea.

I wonder, how far will you go? What kind of condition will you have to get in before you will reach up unto God, be delivered and set free from the bondage of sin and death? That answer is up to you. How much you want to change will be as far as you will go. Will you go all the way with Jesus?

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Mark 12:41

And Jesus sat over against the treasury, and beheld how the people cast money into the treasury: and many that were rich cast in much.

Mark 12:42

And there came a certain poor widow, and she threw in two mites, which make a farthing.

Mark 12:43

And he called unto him his disciples, and saith unto them, Verily I say unto you, That this poor widow hath cast more in, than all they which have cast into the treasury:

Mark 12:44

For all they did cast in of their abundance; but she of her want did cast in all that she had, even all her living.

How much you want to change will be as far as you will go. I am talking about surrendering it all unto Jesus, at the foot of the cross, accepting Christ and turning your heart and life around. Be saved and born again unto the spirit of God. Receive God's love and the gift of eternal life. The widow woman gave her all. How much will you give unto God?

~~~~~

There are the times and moments when I look back on my life and see my mistakes and failures. Now, I am older; I can see things more clearly with the Lord's help. I have a lot of regrets, you know; I guess everyone does. But, now, with the Lord's help, I can see things in a different light because my wrongs, my mistakes and my failures have brought me to the Lord. I can see, now, that all wasn't wasted like I thought. What the Lord has brought me through and what he has waiting for me is far greater than all I have lost. To be with him is all that truly matters. That is all that is important to me anymore.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

There are many roads in this life that one might travel. It is by the choice that we choose the direction we may go. A lot of the times, one chooses the wrong road. But, at the time, it seems right. However, in the end, we realize the mistake and we begin to seek the right way. Others may choose the right way for them from the beginning. But, in truth, all roads have hills, valleys, curves, detours and some that lead to dead ends. It's not the road ahead of us but the choices we choose while on our journey that will determine how well our travel will be.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Sounds of Many Waters

Where is the Promise of His Coming?

Thought to Keep in Mind:

II Peter 3:3

Knowing this first, that there shall come in the last days scoffers, walking after their own lusts,

II Peter 3:4

And saying, Where is the promise of his coming? for since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation.

We find here the scoffers' question. They ask and people ask, today, "Where is the promise of his coming?"

II Peter 3:5

For this they willingly are ignorant of, that by the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water:

II Peter 3:6

Whereby the world that then was, being overflowed with water, perished:

II Peter 3:7

But the heavens and the earth, which are now, by the same word are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men.

We read of the Apostles' answer, "Whereby the world that then was, being overflowed with water, perished: But the heavens and the earth, which are now, by the same word are kept in store." And we read in:

II Peter 3:8

But, beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing, that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.

II Peter 3:9

The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness; but is longsuffering to us-ward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance.

II Peter 3:10

But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up.

We read here of the promise of God. The scoffers asked the question and are still asking yet to this day. Where is the promise of his coming? I ask you, are you ready to go?

First Scripture Reading – Matthew 12:38-40

Matthew 12:38

Then certain of the scribes and of the Pharisees answered, saying Master, we would see a sign from thee.

Matthew 12:39

But he answered and said unto them, An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas:

Matthew 12:40

For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly; so shall the Son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.

Jesus told the scribes and the Pharisees, "An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas."

Jonah 1:17

Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights.

And Jesus said:

Matthew 12:40

For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly; so shall the Son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.

This is the sign of the coming of Jesus Christ, the son of the true and living God. Ever since Jesus rose from the dead and walked out of the tomb, he has been ready to come and get his people. My question is not wondering when he shall come but being ready to go when he does come. Jesus said in:

Matthew 24:36

But of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only.

Matthew 24:37

But as the days of No'e were, so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.

No one knows the hour or day, only the heavenly father. But, it is up to you to be ready for his second coming. The scoffers asked, "Where is the promise of his coming?" I ask you, are you, today, ready for his coming? Are your sins under the blood of Jesus Christ? Are you saved? Are you born again unto the spirit of the living God? Are you ready and prepared, today, to stand before the judgment? What if the trumpet sounded right now? How would it be with you? Ever since Jesus shed his blood, died upon Calvary's hill and rose from the grave on the third day, it's been time for him to come. The reason God may be tarrying with the coming of his son is he might be giving you a chance to get things worked out with him.

Where is the promise of his coming? Let me ask you this question. Why do you think the stone was rolled away? It wasn't to let Jesus out. Jesus raised himself from the dead. All he had to do was walk through the stone. The stone was rolled away to let people come in to see that the tomb was empty and that Jesus Christ had risen from the dead. Jesus, the son of God, had power and victory over the devil, sin, hell and death. Only through Christ and no other way will a man live eternal. I ask you, will you open up your heart unto Jesus and give your heart and life to him? Will you be ready for his second coming, whenever God chooses to send him? Will you be ready? How would Jesus find you if he came today?

The scoffers said, "Where is the promise of his coming?" You'll find the promise of his coming in Jerusalem, in that empty tomb where Jesus Christ, the son of God, used to lay. Jesus, in his second coming, is not coming to be hung on the cross for our sins; he has already done that. Have you accepted what he has already done for you in your heart and life? His second coming is to get his people who are prepared and ready to go. Those who are washed in the blood of the Lamb of God, washed whiter than snow. Those whose names are recorded in the Lamb's Book of Life; those without spot or blemish.

Matthew 24:38

For as in the days that were before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day that Noe entered into the ark.

"Where is the promise of his coming," the scoffers asked? We read in:

Matthew 24:42

Watch therefore: for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.

Matthew 24:43

But know this, that if the goodman of the house had known in what watch the thief would come, he would have watched, and would not have suffered his house to be broken up.

Matthew 24:44

Therefore be ye also ready: for in such an hour as ye think not the Son of man cometh.

Matthew 24:45

Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his lord hath made ruler over this household, to give them meat in due season?

Matthew 24:46

Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he cometh shall find so doing.

Matthew 24:47

Verily I say unto you, That he shall make him ruler over all his goods.

Matthew 24:48

But and if that evil servant shall say in his heart, My lord delayeth his coming;

Matthew 24:49

And shall begin to smite his fellowservants, and to eat and drink with the drunken;

Matthew 24:50

The lord of that servant shall come in a day when he looketh not for him, and in an hour that he is not aware of,

Matthew 24:51

And shall cut him asunder, and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.

Are you ready for the second coming of Jesus Christ? Are you prepared and ready for the great white throne judgment?

Genesis 6:1

And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them,

Genesis 6:2

That the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives of all which they chose.

Genesis 6:3

And the Lord said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he also is flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years.

Genesis 6:4

There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare children to them, the same became mighty men which were of old, men of renown.

Genesis 6:5

And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.

Genesis 6:6

And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart.

Genesis 6:7

And the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth; both man, and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air; for it repenteth me that I have made them.

Genesis 6:8

But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord.

The Bible tells us that as the days of Noah, so shall also the coming of the Son of man be. The Bible also tells us when men began to multiply upon the face of the earth, that in:

Genesis 6:5

And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.

Look across our land and country, today. The wickedness of man is great in our country and all over the world. Sin is abounding upon every hand, of all ages and of all walks of life. Just about every imagination and thoughts of man's heart is upon evil. Look out and see; open your eyes and see the wickedness that beholds our land. At one time, the vineyards yielded a bountiful harvest but now the grapes are diseased and poisoned. Where is the promise of his coming?

Genesis 6:6

And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart.

I believe, today, God looks down and sees the sin in our land and country and in the hearts of man. And, I believe it makes God sick to his stomach. God repented, in the days of Noah, that he made man. I wonder what he thinks about man, today.

Genesis 6:8

But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord.

"Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord." What about you? If Jesus came, today, would he find you ready to go? Noah found grace. What about you? Noah preached 120 years of the great flood and the people laughed, mocked and made fun of him. God told Noah it was going to rain and Noah told the people it was going to rain. And, it rained just as God had said. Out of a world of people, only eight people were saved. The scoffers asked, "Where is the promise of his coming?" God sent the rain of the great flood and God will send his son back again. You need to be ready because when Jesus comes, it will be too late to try to get things right.

Today is the day of salvation. Rain is not what's going to fall from heaven this time. It's going to be fire and brimstone. He's not going to put a rainbow in the sky this time. It's going to be a new heaven and earth. Will you be a part of it? Will you be a part of the new heaven and earth? Are you looking for his coming? Are you ready? Are you listening for the sounds of the trumpet?

Noah found grace in the eyes of God and God was going to keep his word. The day came, such as God had spoken, and Noah did according to what God said. Noah, his family and the animals, such as God instructed, went into the ark and the Lord God shut the door. After seven days in the ark, God sent forth the rain. The Bible doesn't really say too much about the first few moments after the rain began to fall.

But, I would like to share my thoughts and opinions with you. (My opinion doesn't mean anything.) After the Lord shut the door, Noah, his family and all those animals sat and waited for seven days. You know it took a lot of faith in God for Noah to do what he did. God had said he was going to destroy the world and Noah sat inside a giant boat with his family and all those animals and waited. I wouldn't doubt if Noah didn't hear the voices of people, coming from outside the ark, laughing and making fun of him. But, I believe, when God thought it was enough, he sent a few drops of rain down to get the people's attention. When the people felt the first few drops, I believe, they didn't know what to think. As more drops fell, the people became afraid because they remembered what Noah had said. I think about Noah sitting there hearing the first few drops of rain hitting against the ark. I believe Noah and his family bowed their heads and prayed. What were the others on the outside doing? I believe there was chaos, confusion, fear and cries of death as the rain began to pour. I wouldn't doubt if Noah didn't hear them pounding on the side of the ark. But, it was too late. Is this the way it will be when Jesus comes back? I believe the few drops became little puddles and the little puddles became big streams. As the water rose upon the face of the earth, I believe Noah and his family sat and listened as the ark began to pop, crack and snap. As the water rose, the ark began to float and the cries of the people on the outside were cries of death. After 40 days and 40 nights, the world was destroyed just as God had said.

Where is the promise of his coming? All this time that God has tarried sending his son, God has blessed us with his grace and mercy to get right with God. If your sins are under the blood of Jesus, you need to keep looking and keep watching for his coming. For, God will keep his promise. Will you keep yours? Be ready.

II Timothy 3:1

This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come.

II Timothy 3:2

For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy.

II Timothy 3:3

Without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good,

II Timothy 3:4

Traitors, heady, highminded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God;

II Timothy 3:5

Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof: from such turn away.

Is this not the day and the hour that we are living in our land and country? Sin is abound much more today than yesterday because men's hearts are evil and they are far away from God. I know not when Jesus will come nor do you. But, we need to be ready at all times. We need to be watching and listening for the sounding of the trumpet.

Matthew 24:4

And Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you.

Matthew 24:5

For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many.

Matthew 24:6

And ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars: see that ye be not troubled: for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet.

Matthew 24:7

For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom: and there shall be famines, and pestilences, and earthquakes, in divers places.

Matthew 24:8

All these are the beginning of sorrows.

We read in:

Matthew 28:11

Now when they were going, behold, some of the watch came into the city, and shewed unto the chief priests all the things that were done.

Matthew 28:12

And when they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers,

Matthew 28:13

Saying, Say ye, His disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept.

Matthew 28:14

And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him, and secure you.

Matthew 28:15

So they took the money, and did as they were taught: and this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until this day.

Jesus Christ, the son of the true and living God, was not still in the grave nor was his body stolen. But, yet, he arose from the dead into eternal life and sits, today, beside his father in heaven waiting for God to send him. Is he coming for you? Will you be one of them that will meet him in the air?

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Where is the promise of his coming?

Matthew 12:40

For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly; so shall the Son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.

Luke 24:1

Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them.

Luke 24:2

And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre.

Luke 24:3

And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus.

Jesus rose from the dead unto eternal life. The stone was rolled away to let those come in and see the tomb was empty and he was gone.

~~~~~

A soft gentle breeze may blow and kiss the flowers with its passing touch. And, the smell of the flowers may linger until the setting of the sun. In the silence of the still of the day, I can rejoice and know my God, my Lord, is there with me. If the rain should fall, my heart will be refreshed in him and in him alone. Be still, my child, and listen to what my heart has to say. Take a gentle breath, a soft sigh and believe in your heart that I love you, whispered the Lord.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

The slow steady mist of rain fell softly as a gentle breeze blew by and slowly moved the petals of the flowers about. The sky was painted a smoky grey with the cover of rain clouds appearing across the way. It is a summer shower that gently pours down from the heavens and refreshes the earth with renewing life from the summer's heart. It reminds me of the Lord's sigh, of his peace and his rest that comes after the battles of life's storms.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

I often look up at the sky and see the clouds above. I try to picture the face of God and look for his smile. When it rains, I wonder if the raindrops are his tears and the wind his sigh. Could the sunshine be his joy and the thunder his voice? Could the lightning be the blink of his eye? Could the rainbow be his peace of mind and the stars his thoughts? Could the moon be his delight? Could the morning dawn be his patience and the sunset his rest and goodnight?

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Sounds of Many Waters

John 3:16

Thought to Keep in Mind:

John 3:16

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

John 3:17

For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.

For God so loved the world. Have you, today, accepted God's perfect love, Jesus Christ, God's only begotten son, in your heart and life? Have you accepted his work at Calvary by his death, by the shedding of his precious blood for your sins?

Isaiah 53:1

Who hath believed our report? and to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed?

Isaiah 53:2

For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground: he hath no form nor comeliness; and when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him.

Isaiah 53:3

He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our faces from him; he was despised, and we esteemed him not.

Isaiah 53:4

Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted.

Isaiah 53:5

But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed.

Isaiah 53:6

All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all.

Isaiah 53:7

He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth: he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth.

Scripture Reading – John 3:16-17

John 3:16

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

John 3:17

For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.

We find that for God so loved the world.

Matthew 1:18

Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise: When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost.

Matthew 1:19

Then Joseph her husband, being a just man, and not willing to make her a publick example, was minded to put her away privily.

Matthew 1:20

But while he thought of these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost.

Matthew 1:21

And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name JESUS: for he shall save his people from their sins.

Matthew 1:22

Now all this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying,

Matthew 1:23

Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us.

Matthew 1:24

Then Joseph being raised from sleep did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him, and took unto him his wife:

Matthew 1:25

And knew her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son: and he called his name JESUS.

Jesus was born of a virgin birth. He was born without spot or blemish and without sin. He never sinned but, yet, he died and shed his blood for our sins.

Romans 5:8

But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.

Romans 5:9

Much more then, being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him.

Romans 5:10

For if, when were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life.

"For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son."

Romans 5:12

Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:

Can you, today, really comprehend what God has done for you? He has made a very perfect way. The only way to escape sin, hell and death is by his love and through his son Jesus Christ. There is no other way you will be saved. There is no other way you will have eternal life. Only through and by Jesus Christ our Lord and Savior, the son of the living God will you be saved and have eternal life. For God so loved the world, you and me, that he gave his only son by giving us his heart. He gave his love to you and me so those who will come and accept his son Jesus by the way of the old rugged cross and believe in him, Jesus Christ, can have the forgiveness of sin and the gift of eternal life.

Romans 3:23

For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God;

How is it with you? Are your sins under his precious blood? Have you accepted Jesus in your heart and life?

John 10:9

I am the door; by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture.

John 10:10

The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.

Jesus is the only way. He is the light of the world.

I John 1:5

This then is the message which we have heard of him, and declare unto you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all.

I John 1:6

If we say that we have fellowship with him, and walk in darkness, we lie, and do not the truth:

I John 1:7

But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin.

I John 1:8

If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.

I John 1:9

If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.

I John 1:10

If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.

He is the good shepherd. He is your only hope and answer in this life.

Romans 8:24

For we are saved by hope: but hope that is seen is not hope: for what a man seeth, why doth he yet hope for?

Romans 8:25

But if we hope for that we see not, then do we with patience wait for it.

Jesus said, "Whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life."

Ephesians 2:4

But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us,

Ephesians 2:5

Even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ, (by grace ye are saved;)

Ephesians 2:6

And hath raised us up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus:

Ephesians 2:7

That in the ages to come he might shew the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus.

Ephesians 2:8

For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God:

Ephesians 2:9

Not of works, lest any man should boast.

For by grace, God's amazing grace and mercy through his son Jesus Christ, we are saved through faith; believe in Jesus. We are set free from sin and death through the blood of Jesus Christ.

Romans 5:1

Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ:

Romans 5:2

By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God.

That whosoever believes in him (Jesus) should not perish but have everlasting life. Stand on the promises of God. How is it with you? Do you have the promises in your heart and life? Have you that love in your heart? Have you accepted Jesus or have you turned him away? It is your choice. You must choose; no one can choose for you.

Romans 5:15

But not as the offence, so also is the free gift. For if through the offence of one many be dead, much more the grace of God, and the gift by grace, which is by one man, Jesus Christ, hath abounded unto many.

Romans 5:19

For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous.

Romans 5:20

Moreover the law entered, that the offence might abound. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound:

Romans 5:21

That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord.

Who, today, will you choose? Will you choose to serve sin and death or will you serve God? For God so loved the world; he loved you. What will you do about it? For, God has not sent his son into the world to condemn the world.

II Peter 3:8

But, beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing, that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.

II Peter 3:9

The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness; but is longsuffering to us-ward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance.

II Peter 3:10

But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up.

It is not God's will for any to perish nor die and go to hell. Hell was created for Satan and his angel, not for man. But, the choice is up to you. If you were to die right now, how would it be between you and God? Remember, it is not God's will that any should perish but that all should come to repentance. I'm talking about heartfelt sorrowful repentance, being truly sorry for your sins and wanting that change made in your heart and life. Are you sick of the sin carnal-minded and fleshly ways? If so, turn around, change your old ways and seek a way of clean, holy, humble, honest and sincere spiritual life through Jesus Christ our Lord. I mean a complete change. A total, complete commitment of Jesus Christ in your heart, mind, soul and strength.

Romans 6:4

Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life.

Romans 6:5

For is we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection:

Romans 6:6

Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin.

Romans 6:7

For he that is dead is freed from sin.

Happy is the person and blessed are they who God has forgiven and who in their heart, mind and soul has accepted Jesus Christ in their life. Remember that moment and time when you accepted Jesus and God forgave you of your sins and set you free from sin, death and hell. Remember that time, for God so loved the world, you accepted God's perfect love. I praise God, today, for what Jesus has done for me. As long as I live, I will never be able to praise and thank him enough for that change in my heart and life. What about you? For God so loved the world, he sent his only begotten son. That is your invitation to the throne of God. That is your invitation to the gates of heaven. What will you do about it? Will you come? Will you believe? Will you accept or will you turn away? "For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world but; that the world through him might be saved." That is talking about you, me and all those who will come.

Romans 1:16

For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth; to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.

Romans 1:17

For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith: as it is written, The just shall live by faith.

Can you let go of all the world and come, today, just as you are and believe? Do you want that change in your heart? Are you sick of the way your life is and has been? Do you want the peace and joy in life that is without all understanding?

Romans 10:9

That is thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved.

Romans 10:10

For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation.

Romans 10:11

For the scripture saith, Whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed.

Romans 10:12

For there is no difference between the Jew and the Greek: for the same Lord over all is rich unto all that call upon him.

Romans 10:13

For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.

I believe it is a way through repentance from the heart and I believe Jesus will be there for you. But, you must step out. You must come just as you are through repentance. Believe by faith and accept what Jesus has done for you.

Isaiah 55:6

Seek ye the Lord while he may be found, call ye upon him while he is near:

Isaiah 55:7

Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.

Is the Lord knocking upon your heart's door? Maybe you have slipped away a little too far. Maybe, Christians, you are a little cold and indifferent. Knock and it shall be opened. Ask and it shall be given. Today, will you accept his call? "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son." What am I saying?

Galatians 1:3

Grace be to you and peace from God the Father, and from our Lord Jesus Christ,

Galatians 1:4

Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from this present evil world, according to the will of God and our Father:

Galatians 1:5

To whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.

All Jesus wants is for you to love him. Is that so hard to do?

John 15:13

Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.

Paul wrote in the Philippians letter –

Philippians 1:21

For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.

What will you choose? Are your sins under the blood of the lamb of the living God?

I Corinthians 15:19

If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable.

I Corinthians 15:20

But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the firstfruits of them that slept.

I Corinthians 15:21

For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead.

I Corinthians 15:22

For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.

You know in your heart and life how you stand before the living God. Know that you are free from sin and death through the shed blood of Jesus Christ our Lord. Can you believe? Do you have the faith? If you are lost, I pray you will be saved. If you are not where you need to be in your spiritual relationship with the Lord, I pray you get things worked out. Pick up the cross and bear it for Jesus; he bore it for you. "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son."

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

John 14:1

Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me.

John 14:2

In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.

John 14:3

And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.

John 14:4

And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know.

John 14:5

Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the way?

John 14:6

Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.

Are you prepared? Are you ready for the second coming of Christ? Let not your heart be troubled. "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son." Have you accepted him? Are your sins under his precious blood?

~~~~~

The eagle soars high in the heavens above. The tiny hummingbird darts from flower to flower and a sparrow falls from his flight. The Lord sees and knows it all. He knows our hearts and our thoughts. He knows our cares, our worries and our disappointments. He is an all knowing and loving God; his love for us is endless and eternal. He so loved the eagle, the hummingbird and the sparrow that fell. How much more does he love us? All of eternity cannot begin to tell.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

From your heart, you can see the Lord's smile in the morning sunlight and his rest at the setting of the sun. You can see his mercy and his tears in the rain, his voice in the thunder, the whisper of his grace in the wind, his promise in the rainbow, his anger in the storm, his joy in the daylight, his peace in the clouds of the clear blue sky, his sigh in the dew, his patience in the moon and the twinkle of his eyes in the stars.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

A gentle breeze lies abreast at the end of the day and the light of the day leads the way into the darkness of the night. The soft whisper of the Lord finds rest upon his children and his peace lingers in their hearts until the dawn of a new day. Goodnight, my child, goodnight.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Sounds of Many Waters

It's Always the Darkest before the Dawn

Thought to Keep in Mind:

John 20:1

The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre.

The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene to the tomb where they had laid the body of Jesus and it was yet dark. When Mary arrived at the tomb, she saw the stone had been rolled away. The thought I want you to keep in mind and I want you to think on is, it's always the darkest before the dawn.

Scripture Reading – John 20:1-18

John 20:1

The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre.

The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early to the tomb and Mary saw the stone had been taken away. Notice, Mary had put the Lord first, not only in her heart but in the day. The very first thing in the morning, she put Jesus first; she went to the tomb. She came to the place where Jesus was and sought him early. What about you? Are you seeking Jesus in the fullness of your life or every once in a while? Notice, too, Mary didn't want anything from Jesus. All she wanted was to be near him. What about you? How close do you want to be, today, with Jesus? Mary came to the tomb that morning. It was early but she was not afraid. She had determination and a strong willpower. She wanted to be near her Lord. But, when she got to the tomb she saw the stone had been rolled away. Mary left that morning and probably thought everything would be like yesterday but when she got to the tomb it wasn't. The stone was rolled away and it hasn't been the same since. Do you remember the moment and time you cried out for repentance unto Jesus and he forgave you of your sins? Do you remember the moment you were set free from sin, hell and death when the stone was rolled out of your life and out of darkness unto eternal life? Let's look in John 11 of the death of Lazarus.

John 11:21

Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.

John 11:22

But I know, that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee.

John 11:23

Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother shall rise again.

John 11:24

Martha saith unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day.

John 11:25

Jesus said unto her. I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live:

John 11:26

And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this?

John 11:27

She saith unto him, Yea, Lord: I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world.

Jesus said, "I am the resurrection and the life; he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live."

Romans 6:1

What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound?

Romans 6:2

God forbid. How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein?

Romans 6:3

Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death?

Romans 6:4

Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life.

Romans 6:5

For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection:

Romans 6:6

Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin.

Romans 6:7

For he that is dead is freed from sin.

Are your sins buried in his precious blood? Are you walking in that newness of life in Christ Jesus? Jesus said, "I am the resurrection and life." Ever since the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus Christ and the day Mary found that tomb empty, man has had the invitation to God through his son Jesus Christ unto repentance and unto eternal life by the finished work at Calvary and the empty tomb. What about you? The tomb is empty. Are you prepared for the second coming of Christ? God has done all he will do. The rest is up to you.

John 20:2

Then she runneth, and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him.

John 20:3

Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple, and came to the sepulchre.

John 20:4

So they ran both together: and the other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulchre.

Mary ran back to the disciples and told them they had taken the Lord out of the tomb and didn't know where they had laid him. Notice, too, two of the disciples ran to the tomb. There was a stirring up of the people. There was probably everything running through their minds; they probably thought about everything.

John 20:5

And he stooping down, and looking in, saw the linen clothes lying; yet went he not in.

The first disciple stooped down, looked in and saw the linen clothes. Then came Simon Peter and he saw them, too. It's always the darkest before the dawn.

John 20:7

And the napkin, that was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself.

But, the Lord was no where to be found. The tomb was empty. Let me ask you. Are you empty, today? Is your life empty? Are you lonely and have nowhere to turn? Jesus will fill that emptiness and that loneliness if you will reach out and accept him. Maybe you were once close to the Lord. Maybe, at one time, he was the fullness in your life and now he is far away. You can bring him near to you again. Just humble your heart and pray. Notice, the disciples found an empty tomb. Look at your life, today. What do you see? Is Jesus a part of it or are you alone and empty?

John 20:8

Then went in also that other disciple, which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw, and believed.

John 20:9

For as yet they know not the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead.

John 20:10

Then the disciples went away again unto their own home.

"Then went in also that other disciple, which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw, and believed."

I Corinthians 15:12

Now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead?

I Corinthians 15:13

But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen:

I Corinthians 15:14

And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also vain.

I Corinthians 15:15

Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God; because we have testified of God that he raised up Christ: whom he raised not up, if so be that the dead rise not.

I Corinthians 15:16

For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised:

I Corinthians 15:17

And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins.

I Corinthians 15:18

Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished.

I Corinthians 15:19

If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable.

"If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are all men most miserable." Can you believe? Is Jesus real in your heart and life? Is he the fullness of your heart? Is he your Savior?

John 20:11

But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping: and as she wept, she stooped down, and looked into the sepulchre,

John 20:12

And seeth two angels in white sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.

Mary stood weeping outside the empty tomb. Notice the condition she was in. She was humble and broken spirited. I believe she had a strong love for Jesus in her heart that she could hardly contain. She stooped down, looked into the tomb and saw the two angels sitting. I believe Mary, at that time, was looking through a pure heart and saw heavenly things. There in the tomb, that day, God had worked the greatest of all miracles; the gift of life over death. Death and the grave would no more be a bondage to mankind because Jesus Christ the son of God rose from the dead upon the third day. We, too, in Christ Jesus, in him only and no other way, can have the victory, today, because of him.

John 20:13

And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She saith unto them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him.

John 20:14

And when she had thus said, she turned herself back, and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus.

John 20:15

Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away.

Jesus said unto her, "Woman, why weepest thou?" Mary opened up her heart and told him her heart. I wonder, when was the last time you had a heart to heart talk with Jesus? When was the last time you told him how you really felt?

John 20:14

And when she had thus said, she turned herself back, and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus.

"She (Mary) turned herself back, and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus." A lot of the time, we are so carried away with everything around us. We are so wrapped up in our problems, troubles, sorrows and griefs we face in this walk of life that we fail to see Jesus standing in the midst; we fail to recognize him. We have our eyes upon our situations, our problems and upon ourselves that we fail to see Jesus in the midst. Jesus said unto her, "Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou?" Mary supposed him to be the gardener. Mary's eyes were upon the problem. We as Christians, today, need to look over and beyond the problems, troubles, pains, sufferings and griefs of this life. We need to look beyond it all unto Jesus Christ the son of God, the gift of eternal life. We need to look beyond unto Jesus' power, strength and love which will see us through this world we are living in. I believe (my opinion) that Jesus called her woman here so she would open up her heart to him. Yet, Mary knew not it was Jesus.

John 20:16

Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself, and saith unto him, Rabboni; which is to say, Master.

Jesus said unto her, "Mary." He called her by name the second time. When Jesus called her Mary, she turned herself. She knew his voice. The sheep know the voice of the shepherd when he calls. Maybe Jesus is calling you, today. Is everything all right? Are you prepared to die? Are you ready for the judgment? Will you hear him say enter in? Jesus may be calling you by name. Today is the day of salvation for tomorrow maybe the judgment. Notice, when Jesus called her by name she recognized it was Jesus. Do you know his voice? If so, why don't you answer?

John 20:17

Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God.

John 20:18

Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord, and that he had spoken these things unto her.

Mary came to witness and testify of the Lord. What about you? Do you still have your testimony? Do you still have your witness? Do you still have that fire in your bones like you did on the day you were saved? Or, have you become content, satisfied and unconcerned? Mary went and told the disciples she had seen the Lord. Have you seen him, lately? Is he still real in your heart and life? If he isn't, he can be. It is all up to you. It's always the darkest before the dawn. Is your life dark and empty? Let Jesus shed some light, some eternal light, into your heart and life.

John 3:16

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

John 3:17

For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Matthew 28:11

Now when they were going, behold, some of the watch came into the city, and shewed unto the chief priests all the things that were done.

Matthew 28:12

And when they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers,

Matthew 28:13

Saying, Say ye, His disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept.

Matthew 28:14

And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him, and secure you.

Matthew 28:15

So they took the money, and did as they were taught: and this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until this day.

What do you believe? Is the tomb empty?

I Corinthians 15:17

And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins.

I Corinthians 15:19

If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable.

It's always the darkest before the dawn.

Matthew 28:16

Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them.

Matthew 28:17

And when they saw him, they worshipped him: but some doubted.

Matthew 28:19

Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost:

Matthew 28:20

Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world. Amen.

*****

Discover other titles by Bobby A. Troutt at Smashwords.com

Beyond the Truth

A Cry in the Wind

Thistles and Thorns

Dead Limbs and Leaves

Troubled Waters

When Autumn Falls

When Time Was

Bittersweet

Sycamore Tales

Stepping Out on a Limb

Odds n Ends

Turning Point

The Fall of Night

In Times of Quitting

Still Wind, Forgotten Days

In Times of Trouble

Special Moments

The Fall of Autumn

Reaching Forward

Bobby A. Troutt is a southern writer who writes a variety of short stories, spiritual books and children's books.
