 
Special Moments

Bobby A. Troutt

Copyright 2015 by Bobby A. Troutt

Smashwords Edition

Thank you for downloading this free ebook. You are welcome to share it with your friends. This book may be reproduced, copied and distributed for non-commercial purposes, provided the book remains in its complete original form. Thank you for your support.

Table of Contents

The Withering Vine

Somewhere Out There Is God

I Wonder, Will You Forget Me

The Old Man and the Autumn Sunset

The Old Church Bell

The Old Man with the Withered Hands

Forever and a Day

The Old Man, the Ship and the Lighthouse

The Other Side of Nowhere

Every Way That I Would Turn, Trouble Besought Me

To Everything There is a Season

As the Crow Flies

The Flight of the Three Doves

Lord, When the Leaves Fall, I'll Return in Autumn

Torn Between Two Stones

The Old Man and the River

The Fallen Tree

The Old Man and the Rainbow

The Dust in the Wind and the Fallen Tree

Flowers

Where the Lilies Grow

*****

Special Moments

The Withering Vine

There was a time, not so long ago, when a young man named Ollie who loved the Lord with all his heart lived in the plains of the valley of Homer in the small community of Pleasant Grove that laid between two mountains. He was a tiller of the ground; a man who walked with the Lord daily as he watched over his land and vineyard. Ollie was a young man in the Lord because it wasn't too long ago that he surrendered his heart and life unto the Lord. He lived a blessed life there in the valley. Year after year, his crops gave an abundance of fruits, berries, vegetables and grains. He had record crops of food that he sold to the market for a living. People from all around the valley of Homer came and bought his vegetables, grains, berries and fruits. Ollie was well liked by all and was highly respected. He prayed daily and praised the Lord for everything the Lord had blessed him with. He shared his blessings with others who were less fortunate. All went well for Ollie in the valley for a long time as he worked his crops in the fields. Until, one day, tragedy struck; the valley was stricken with a drought. Day after day, month after month, the drought hovered over the valley and turned the land to dust. The creeks were dried up and the hot swirling winds scorched the barren land. Ollie lost all his crops and his fields laid in ruins. His land was nothing but a naked and barren wasteland. He didn't know what had happened or understand why. Ollie, who was broken, knelt down on his knees and called out unto the Lord.

"Lord," he cried out. "Why, Lord has this tragedy befell me so? Have I not done your will? Have I not done my best in everything you asked me to do? Why, oh, Lord? Why? What have I done? Where have I failed to deserve this tragedy?"

The Lord heard his cries. However, he sat still and gave him no answer which caused Ollie to cry out even more.

"Forgive me, my Lord, I pray. Forgive me for all the wrongs I did that brought me these troubles."

The Lord sat still with no answer. Ollie looked out across the fields and then looked down at the ruined crops that lay at his feet. He stood in silence with tears running down his face as he looked about his land. He slowly looked up to the sky for a moment, dropped his head and walked away. He suddenly stopped, looked up at the sky once again and listened. But, he heard nothing but the blowing of the dry wind. As he watched the dust blowing across the fields, his heart became bitter and he cried out unto the Lord once more.

"Lord, it's so unfair and so unjust."

With no answer from the Lord, his heart hardened and he looked up to the sky no more. All he could do was turn and walk away. As time went on, he tried to put back the pieces of his shattered life. Unfortunately, the more he tried, the more of a mess it became. Ollie never looked up again unto the Lord. He had given up all hope, cast away all his dreams and lost all sight of his blessed vision. For years, he struggled to regain everything he had. He worked from dawn to dusk, day after day, planting, replanting, sowing and plowing. But, it was all in vain because the land held back its fertile soil.

Several years passed and Ollie was now an old man. Throughout those years, the land produced enough to see him through. It was just enough to get him by and allow him to survive. Although his bitter and hardened heart dwelled with him all those years, deep down inside there was still a drop of good in it. The time came when he stood in the open fields, once again, and looked up to heaven, unto the face of God.

Ollie cried out, "Lord, forgive me of my ways and the things that brought this upon me. I don't understand, my Lord. I am sorry for being so blinded that I can't see. But, I pray you will have mercy on me so I may live fully once again and know you in my heart like I once did." Ollie fell down upon his knees and cried out even more. "Forgive me, Lord, I pray, for where I have failed."

He dropped his head and tears fell from his eyes. He watched as a sun-scorched vine withered and died when a worm cut the root of the vine. As he took a seed from the fruit of the withered vine in his hand, the Lord spoke to his heart.

"My child, my precious child, the world is cruel and it beholds tragedy for all. It is an unfair and unjust world. However, you have been strong and endured. Plant the seed that it may grow and bring forth its fruit from the land; your heart will become as pure as gold."

Ollie took the seed and did as the Lord instructed. The seed from the withered vine brought forth bountiful crops; the harvest was plentiful. Once again, he had an abundance of fruits, berries, vegetables and grains. And the bitterness of Ollie's hardened heart went away and his heart became as pure gold.

As he lifted his eyes back up to heaven once more, he cried out, "Thank you, Lord, for being there and for bringing me through."

Not many days later, the Lord took Ollie home to be with him forever.

*****

Special Moments

Somewhere Out There Is God

Nahum 1:7

The Lord is good, a strong hold in the day of trouble; and he knoweth them that trust in him.

And there was a time in the old man's life that he stood upon the horizon of tomorrow and sought the face of God. He prayed and cried to the Lord.

"I know somewhere you are out there. I must find you while tomorrow is still here."

The old man picked up all his belongings, put them upon his back and left the place, which was called Tomorrow, to find today.

"Somewhere out there is God," cried the old man. "I am setting out on this journey to seek and find him."

Leaving Tomorrow behind, with everything he had upon his back, he journeyed down the slopes of the mountains and through the timberlines to seek the Lord. As far as he could see, there were giant trees all around. As he journeyed down by the river that flowed through the canyon, he sought God there. But, there was nothing but the sound of the rushing water and the rustling of leaves by the gentle breeze. As the day slowly slipped away and night began to fall, the old man set up camp and made a vow to continue his journey early tomorrow. As the day rested and the darkness of night surrounded him, he prayed and talked to the Lord.

"Lord, I know you are out there somewhere and I must find you," he prayed.

As the darkness of night slipped away and the rising of the sun grew near, he broke camp and journeyed along the river to find the Lord. When he reached the river's forked bend, he stopped, looked, listened and watched. Yet, God was nowhere to be found. As the days, weeks and months passed, he journeyed through villages, camps, cities and towns. Yet, the Lord was not to be found. He walked the crowded, busy streets and went from house to house calling out to the Lord; he searched and searched. Yet, the Lord was still nowhere to be found. From there, he journeyed into the desert with its hot sand and stones. He journeyed for miles and miles and yet he found not the Lord. Discouraged, he fell down upon the hot sand and prayed with his head in his hands.

"Lord, I know you're here. I have searched and searched and you're nowhere to be found."

As his tears fell and dried in the sand, the Lord reached down and it began to rain. Within the falling rain, he heard the voice of the Lord. The Lord's voice was so clear when he called the old man by name.

The Lord said, "My child, my child, I have always been here. I never left you but it was you that left me. You went ahead without me; I am where you left me."

"But, I was so afraid you were gone. I could not find you anywhere," the old man replied.

"My child, did you look into your heart and into your tears?" questioned the Lord.

The old man reached up, wiped his eyes and smiled.

"I am also found in your smile," the Lord said.

*****

Special Moments

I Wonder, Will You Forget Me

Matthew 6:25

Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment?

Matthew 6:26

Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they?

Matthew 6:27

Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature?

Matthew 6:28

And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin:

Matthew 6:29

And yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.

Matthew 6:30

Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which to day is, and to morrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith?

Matthew 6:31

Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed?

Matthew 6:32

(For after all these things do the Gentiles seek:) for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things.

Matthew 6:33

But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you.

Matthew 6:34

Take therefore no thought for the morrow: for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.

Times were hard in those days when a young man bought a piece of ground to till the land for its bountiful harvest. And it came to pass that the young man worked hard in the fields for long hours, day after day. He planted and, at times, even replanted. He plowed and worked the team of mules from dawn to dusk. When harvest time came, he gathered the fruits of his harvest; some years were better than others.

The young man had grown older with the land. One day, he looked back to see that all he had was all he had worked so hard for. Some years the harvest was good but many were slack in their giving. The young man who was now old in years was so disheartened and discouraged. As he walked along the field, one day, kicking dirt into the air, he began to talk to the Lord.

"Lord, if you're up there, you know I have really tried to make good of the land. I have worked until I have not the heart to work anymore. I don't understand, Lord. When I needed rain, you sent it not. When I didn't need rain, the bottom fell out of the sky. My crops varied from year to year. I'm so much in debt and have so little left," he said as he kicked the dirt into the air once more. "All that I ask, Lord, is that I can make good of the land so the harvest will be bountiful and the land will be rich with its fruits. I would just like to try it that way, Lord, just once that I may know the riches of the harvest."

The man stood still a few moments and looked across the land in silence. The Lord nodded his head and said to himself, I wonder, will you forget me. The man then looked up toward heaven, took out his handkerchief, wiped the sweat from his brow, turned and walked away. And it came to pass, not long after that time in the field, that the young man who is now old, had land which was rich with bountiful crops of fruits from his labor. The vineyard yielded bumper crops and the trees yielded beautiful fruit. The nut trees seasoned out their goodies unto a hearty harvest. Yes, it was a record crop that year and for many years afterwards. The old man now enjoyed the riches of his harvest. Seasons passed and years rolled on. The Lord richly blessed him and his land. The rains came as needed and the sun shined to do its part in the ripening of the harvest. There were little to no bugs or diseases and the ground gave forth its nutrients and food. The Lord balanced nature to give him his moment of riches.

As time passed, the Lord sat back, watched and waited to see if he would forget him. Little by little, as the land produced more, he got further away from the Lord. The old man's talks with the Lord became fewer and farther apart. There were days the Lord heard not from him as he watched over him in silence. However, he waited patiently. As time went on, the Lord blessed him even more and the old man got further away. The Lord continued to sit in silence, waited and thought to himself, I wonder, will he forget me?

And it came a time, once again, when the old man walked through the field. He stood where he once stood and kicked the dirt into the air.

"Lord, I know that you're up there somewhere. For only you could have done all that has been done," he said. "Lord, I know I haven't always been there and I haven't always talked to you when I should have. You know where all I have failed. But, I just want you to know that although I may not have always shown it and may have let you down along the way, Lord, you know in my heart I have not forgotten you."

The Lord sat silently, listened and thought to himself, I wondered if he would forget me.

Psalm 50:15

And call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.

Psalm 34:4

I sought the Lord, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears.

Psalm 28:7

The Lord is my strength and my shield; my heart trusted in him, and I am helped: therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth; and with my song will I praise him.

~~~~~

As the days lingered on, I sought the Lord in all my troubles and trials. Though, I may be troubled and uneasy and though I may be afraid and crippled by fear, I know in my heart the Lord has been there with me before and he will deliver me once again. But, I must believe with all my heart and doubt not. For, I know some way, somehow, my victory shall come through Christ my Lord. Although life's storms go on in my troubled days, I will not give up or give in for my heart searches for that guiding light in Jesus, God's only son. When I believe in him fully with a small seed of faith and with no doubt, I can see the light ahead as the storms slowly move out.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

As a child, growing up, I always enjoyed the summer storms, the coolness after a shower and splashing about in the mud puddles. When I grew older, I enjoyed the walks in the rain and to hear it fall upon a tin roof as I went to sleep. I recall when the rain became wet and of those days when I walked in it and had rain running down my face. Now, that I am up in age, I sit in my house and watch from my window as it slowly falls.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Special Moments

The Old Man and the Autumn Sunset

There was a time, not so long ago, that there lived an old man who was a humble servant of God and loved the Lord God with all his heart. He was up in many years. Each and every evening he would walk down along the sandy beach from where he lived. He would sit there on the shore and listen to the sea as it moved back and forth upon the sand. He would watch as the golden sunset came down from heaven and rest upon the horizon. Each evening he would sit there and talk to God. As the sun set each day, he prayed.

Now, there came an evening when a small child came and sat down beside him upon the sandy shore. He told the child about Jesus, the one who was greater than all. As time went on, day after day, the child came each evening and sat with the old man; they talked about the Lord.

As time went on, seasons came and seasons went. The old man grew older and the child grew up. As a child, his thoughts were on Jesus. However, as he grew older he became excited about the world and the things he wanted to do. But, the old man knew all those things he spoke of because he had already experienced them a long time ago. All he told the child was that all things done in the world shall pass away and only those things done for Christ shall last. As time went by, the old man still went each and every evening to the shore to sit and talk to God. But, things had changed; the child who used to come each day only came every now and then (the evenings were fewer and farther apart).

When autumn came, the air was crisp and the waves of the sea crashed upon the rocks along the shore. The birds flew over as the young man stood there on the banks that day and waited for the old man to come. As he waited, he looked at his watch, kicked the sand and waited some more. But, there was no sign of the old man. The young man then sat down, watched the autumn sunset and he talked to the Lord that day because he was worried about the old man. As the sun set, all he could think of was what the old man would always say. The old man always told him that only those things done for Christ shall last. Night fell, the young man stood up and walked away. As time went on, he came to the shore and sat down with God but the old man never returned. He knew in his heart that he had gone on to the places he talked so much of. He knew somewhere, in the autumn sunset, the old man was with Jesus. He was hurt and afraid. The child that once sat beside of the old man blamed God for taking his best friend away. Then, one day, he left and journeyed out into the world to do those things he had dreamed of.

The story goes on; the years rolled around and seasons passed. The place where they used to sit was now empty and bare. All that could be heard or seen was the sound of the sea waves crashing upon the rocks along the shore. Many years have gone by and there came a day, once again, that the young man who was now old came and sat there along the shore. It was in autumn when he returned. He was gray headed and crippled now. He wasn't an innocent child like he was before. The world had taken its toll upon him but he always kept this special place in his heart and he remembered the Lord. That autumn evening, he sat upon the sandy shore, cried and prayed. As he cried out and prayed, he touched heaven that day and he came to truly know the Lord. He praised God and his Holy name.

"Bless you, Jesus. Bless you, God, for truly you are the greatest of all."

As he sat there that autumn evening and watched, the sun had begun to set when a child came and sat down with him.

He began to talk about the Lord and he said, "My child, my precious child, all things done in this world shall pass away and only things done for Christ shall last."

*****

Special Moments

The Old Church Bell

This is a story about a man named Brother Matt who went to a little old country church. When Brother Matt was just a small boy, the old country church bought a steeple and put it on the roof of the church. Inside the steeple was a shiny new church bell. Brother Matt volunteered to ring it each and every Sunday. I remember the time very well. I was just a little younger than Brother Matt. I remember him tugging on Brother Bob's coat and asking him to let him ring the bell. Brother Bob was our pastor then.

Brother Bob smiled real big and said, "Little Brother Matt, from now on you shall ring the church bell."

Brother Bob placed a chair at the back of the church for him to stand on so he could reach the bell. Now, many years have come and gone since that time. Every Sunday, Brother Matt would be there to ring the bell three times for Sunday school and four times for church; he never missed a service.

Brother Matt was a good and humble man. He served his Lord and worked in his church. He visited the sick. He loved and helped his neighbors. Everyone liked him; he was a good man. We had some great times at the old church back then. There were revivals you would not believe. The shouting, hollering, praising the Lord's holy name, all day singings, the fellowship and great testimonies were unimaginable. Yes, Brother Matt gave some of the most beautiful testimonies I guess I have ever heard. His face was as bright as the sun and his eyes twinkled like diamonds when he cried and testified of his love for Jesus.

Well, years went on and time changed the old country church. The church grew and grew but it became cold and dry. However, Brother Matt hung right in there for the Lord and his church; he loved them more than anything. Then, one day, a young modern minister came to pastor the church and things began to pick up. The church decided to remodel and modernize the old country church. Well, unexpectedly, at one of the Sunday services, the young minister of God said something Brother Matt never thought he would hear.

"I think we should do away with the ringing of the old church bell," the young minister said. "It should be put in the past. It is something that started years ago and no one really listens to it anymore. It has served its purpose."

As the young minister spoke on, tears came to Brother Matt's eyes. He couldn't believe what he heard and he, who was at the age of ninety, stood up and testified.

"Brother Bill, Brother Bill, for years and years I have rang that old bell. When I was just a boy, I stood on a chair to ring that bell. I pray to my Lord whom I have served all my life that you will not stop the beautiful sound of that old rusty bell. When I was a young man, I had a great vision. I dreamed I died and went to heaven. And there in heaven stood a beautiful church. It was the most beautiful church in the world and it had a beautiful gold bell with a silk rope of pearls hanging from it. I rung that bell as Jesus stood there with a beautiful smile amongst all the saints of God; the men, women, children and angels were all gathered around the Lord Jesus. We all sat around and talked with him. I pray, Brother Bill, not only to you but to the church I love so dear also. I'm at the age of ninety and I don't have long to live. Please just let me ring it one more Sunday morning before you make the decision to stop ringing the bell."

Then Brother Matt sat back down and all was quiet. The young minister began to preach and the day soon came to an end. The week soon passed and it was Sunday morning once again. The church was so quiet and sat solemnly because Brother Matt had passed away. Brother Bill had asked for a few moments of silence to respect Brother Matt. As heads were bowed and tears were shed, the old church bell rang louder than ever. The young minister raised his head and looked toward the back of the old country church. The rope of the bell swung back and forth. DONG, DONG, DONG it sounded. As tears came to his eyes, he felt a soft but gentle breeze go by.

"Welcome to the house of God," he said with a smile.

The young minister preached that day like I had never heard before. We had an old-fashioned revival meeting that day and seven souls were saved.

Psalm 37:3

Trust in the Lord, and do good; so shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed.

Psalm 37:4

Delight thyself also in the Lord; and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart.

Psalm 37:5

Commit thy way unto the Lord; trust also in him; and he shall bring it to pass.

Psalm 23:1

The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want.

Psalm 23:2

He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside the still waters.

Psalm 23:3

He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake.

Psalm 23:4

Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me.

Psalm 23:5

Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies: thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over.

Psalm 23:6

Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life: and I will dwell in the house of the Lord for ever.

~~~~~

Yesterday has slipped away and if tomorrow shall come it will be today. The memories, whether good or bad, and the songs that hold our memories shall always linger in our hearts and bring us back to the days of yesterday. Tomorrow will have a new song with new memories and hopes. Forget not those special moments in your life, the smiles, the laughter and the joy. Recalling good memories is a good thing to do from time to time. It brings us to the place that helps us realize all of life is not all bad. Look at the bad memories as hard lessons learned and do not always dwell on them. But, slip away in that still moment and be thankful for it all.

Bobby A. Troutt

Isaiah 55:6-9

6Seek ye the Lord while he may be found, call ye upon him while he is near:

7Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.

8For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord.

9For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts.

*****

Special Moments

The Old Man with the Withered Hands

There was once a beautiful day in the months of an early spring. There was an old man with withered hands who came and knelt down and prayed. As he walked down to the stream bed, he talked to the Lord, cried and prayed. As he reached the edge of the water, he fell down on his knees and prayed.

"Dear Lord," he said, "I remember, O' Lord, I was just a lad when one so dear to me was taken away. And, I remember, as if it was yesterday, how I blamed you for taking my friend away. Yes, Lord, I remember calling on you as I was growing up through all those long hard years and time and time again, you were always there. I also remember how I would promise you this and promise you that. But, you always kept your promise even though I would turn, walk away and never bother to give you thanks or to give you praise. Yes, Lord, so many times, I recall how I turned you away. Lord I've been down many roads and I've seen so many things. But, what hurts me more than anything are the times I turned you away."

As the old man with the withered hands cried and prayed, he raised his head and cried out in shame.

"Please, O' Lord, please forgive me for I have sinned. Please, Lord, I pray you won't turn me away."

As the old man dropped his head in silence, he noticed a beautiful dogwood blossom floating down the stream. He reached down into the water, picked it up with one hand, raised it to his face and looked at it. He took his other hand and slowly wiped away the tears from his eyes.

"Dear Lord, O' precious Jesus," he said with a quivering voice from deep inside as he looked at the dogwood blossom. "I remember, O' Lord, the old rugged cross. And, yes, I remember the crown of thorns and yes, Lord, I remember the rusty nails."

As the old man slowly raised his head, he looked out across the still waters and saw a beautiful wild red rose hanging from a bush.

The old man dropped his head into his hands and cried, "Yes, precious Jesus, I remember your blood that you shed at Calvary. With trembling fear, he raised his head, looked through the giant timbers that surrounded the stream and saw the sunlight piercing through the trees. With the warmth of the sun, the Lord reached down and dried the tears of his weathered face. As he looked up toward heaven that day, his eyes were opened and he was saved because the Lord had forgiven him that great day.

"Oh, precious Jesus," the old man shouted when he stood up and raised his withered hands toward heaven. "Blessed Lord, never again shall I turn and walk away. But, I pray now to always give you thanks and give praise to you and your holy name. Thank you, Jesus, and bless your heart. More than anything, I love you, Lord, with all my heart. Remember me, O' Lord, this day; the old man with the withered hands who prayed."

I Peter 1:7

That the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honour and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ:

II Timothy 1:7

For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.

*****

Special Moments

Forever and a Day

There came a time, once, in an old man's life that he journeyed down to the meadow where the wind whistled through the giant willows. He stood there in the midst of the meadow's golden flowers and blooms of radiant color. It was in the early morning hours, at the break of sunrise, when he paused for a moment, lifted his head up toward the blue sky and asked the Lord a question.

"Will you, Lord, let me know the answer in a few days?"

However, the Lord stayed silent. The old man left there that day and went on his way. Several days later, he wondered about the question he had asked the Lord since the Lord had not given him an answer to his question. The old man wondered and waited patiently for many more days. As time went on, day after day, there still was no reply. He thought and he thought. He questioned himself and studied some more. Why, he asked himself. Why hasn't the Lord replied? Soon, after many days, he returned to the meadow to seek the Lord and to see why the Lord was tarrying in answering his question. It was in the noon of the day that he returned to the meadow. He stood there and waited for the Lord. The wind that whistled through the giant willows was a bit cooler than before and the sky was more of a grayish blue. As he lifted up his head again unto the Lord, he sought out why the Lord had not given him the answer to the question he so longed for. But, the Lord stayed silent as he listened to the old man.

"Lord, is it that I have failed? Could it be, maybe, I've done wrong. Is that why you will not reply? Could it be that I was wrong to ask. Maybe it's not your will but mine. Oh, Lord, I pray that ye speak that I may hear."

He paused for a moment and all was quiet except for the cool breeze that whistled through the willows. The old man became aggravated and enraged.

"Lord, if I may, can I ask you a second question? Will it take forever and a day to hear your first reply?

He left the meadow and journeyed on. Week after week passed and the old man still heard no answer from the Lord. Months and months rolled by and he wrestled with it each and every day. There were times when he was lifted by hopes that he believed the answer would soon come. There were days his faith was so strong that it could move mountains. But, there was still no reply. As time went on, his hopes and his faith became weaker and weaker until there was little to no hope left in him; all he had left was a thin thread of faith that he would hear an answer soon.

Then, one day at dusk, as the sun set, he went back to the meadow. Once again, he stood in the midst of the meadow that was covered with a newly fallen snow. As he lifted up his head again toward the sky above, he was discouraged, disheartened and broken. With little to no hope, he talked to the Lord once again about the question he had asked so long ago. But, yet, the Lord was still silent.

"Lord, will it be forever and a day?" he asked.

He left there and went back to where he lived. It was a long, hard winter that year. But, the old man held on. He had all but given up on hearing an answer, from the Lord, to his question. To him, it became a thing of the past. No more did he seek an answer nor did he much believe it would come. Well, winter broke and spring appeared. And, it came a time in the golden meadow with its radiant colors of beautiful flowers that he stopped and stood in its midst once more. As he looked around, the Lord gave him the answer to his question he had so longed for.

"Lord, that is good," the old man said with tears in his eyes.

The Lord said to the old man, "My child, my reply to your question forever and a day is that I will always be with you and I will always be there."

Psalm 1:1

Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful.

Psalm 1:2

But his delight is in the law of the Lord; and in his law doth he meditate day and night.

Psalm 1:3

And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.

Psalm 40:1

I waited patiently for the Lord; and he inclined unto me, and heard my cry.

Psalms 40:2

He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings.

Psalm 40:3

And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God: many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in the Lord.

*****

Special Moments

The Old Man, the Ship and the Lighthouse

There was a young man, one day, who surrendered his heart and life unto the Lord; he was saved and born again. He was a humble servant of God. He read his Bible and prayed every day. This story is about the young man who boarded a ship and set sail on a journey. He stood on the deck of the ship and looked out across the sea. In the far off distance, he saw a sparkling, bright light that lit up the path of the ship as he set sail. The young man said to himself, I must follow the light that shall guide me. For, he knew the lighthouse would lead him safely home. At the beginning of his journey, the ship floated across the waters of the open sea. The young man prayed and his faith grew. He loved the Lord with all his heart. As the ship journeyed on from day to day and month to month, he set anchor at different ports. At each port, he would find trouble and sorrow. He would pray and cry out unto the Lord during those trying times. During those times, he realized that he learned from every port he had anchored and he grew closer to God. And, too, at every port, no matter how bad the trouble, there was the light from the lighthouse that guided him safely in the right direction toward home. As time went on, there were storms that rocked the boat and crashed giant waves upon the deck; it caused him to be afraid. However, every time, he held on to the Lord and cried out unto him. During the midst of the storm, the young man would see a small twinkling light and then the dark clouds would break away and the sun would shine. During his trials and troubles, the Lord delivered him from the mighty storms; he found peace through the Lord.

Many years have gone by and the young man was now old. After many years upon the sea, his heart was pure. The old man still followed the light as he sought and searched for the lighthouse that stood upon the golden shores somewhere in the heavens above the sea.

Then, one day, a thick fog came in. He was blinded and could not see. He knelt down that day on the deck of the ship and prayed. As he cried and prayed, he touched heaven that day and out of the darkness of the fog came a piercing light which filled his heart with joy and guided him out of the midst of the fog. But, the ship sat still and motionless out upon the open sea. Everything was quiet and there was no breeze. Day after day, the ship sat still upon the water and the old man found peace, joy and rest. Those were the times when he enjoyed the blessings of God for the enemy was behind him and he knew he was safe from harm. Then, one day, he stepped out upon the deck of the ship and looked out across the water toward heaven. His eyes were filled with tears of joy. As soon as he saw the lighthouse that stood on the heavenly golden shore, he fell to his knees, bowed his head, prayed, shouted and cried out to the Lord. Then, the wind softly blew the ship toward the shore. The old man cried out with joy because he knew his journey was complete. His faith was the ship he sailed upon; his life had been the sea and the light and lighthouse which guided him all through those years was JESUS CHRIST, the son of Almighty God. As the ship landed that day upon the golden shore of home, the old man bowed down on his knees and kissed the feet of God.

Psalm 51:1

Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy lovingkindness: according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgressions.

Psalm 51:2

Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.

Psalm 51:3

For I acknowledge my transgressions: and my sin is ever before me.

Psalm 51:4

Against thee, thee only, have I sinned, and done this evil in thy sight: that thou mightiest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest.

Psalm 51:5

Behold, I was shapen in iniquity; and in sin did my mother conceive me.

Psalm 51:6

Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts: and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom.

Psalm 51:7

Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.

Psalm 51:8

Make me to hear joy and gladness; that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice.

Psalm 51:9

Hide thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities.

Psalm 51:10

Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me.

Psalm 51:11

Cast me not away from thy presence; and take not thy holy spirit from me.

Psalm 51:12

Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation; and uphold me with thy free spirit.

~~~~~

Though in this life, I have traveled many unseen roads. I have failed and made many mistakes. I am guilty of taking detours, wrong turns and wound up at dead ends. Many times, I have failed to read the warning signs along the way. I have crossed and burnt many bridges; I have taken shortcuts, too. However, the roads I chose hurt me more than others. I have crossed the double lines many times, ran life's stop signs and failed to yield in life's way. But, I did it all to myself and no one else is to blame. I alone chose the roads that I have traveled, some were good and some were bad. I struggled a lot by trying to do it my way and on my own. I went over the speed limit many times. I drove my life recklessly without no care of being caught. I've sat at the four-way stop not knowing which way to go. I've made U-turns and went back to nothing of any good. But, I praise the Lord for riding with me and bringing me through. For, I surrendered my heart and life unto him and gave him my all. Now, I let him drive and I ride with him.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

When I look up toward the sky and see a jet flying over with all the people inside, I often wonder where they are from, where they are going and what kind of life they've had. I wonder about their sorrows, pains, joys and troubles. Although we will never meet, only them passing above, I can't help but wonder as they slowly pass by.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Special Moments

The Other Side of Nowhere

There was an old man from the land of Wuz who set out on a journey to the land on the other side of nowhere. He journeyed far in the far lands as he looked and searched for the other side of nowhere. He crossed mighty rivers, high mountains and journeyed through long, dark valleys until he reached the other side of nowhere. As he drew near to the city of Nothing, he met two people coming out of the city.

"Welcome to Nowhere for we are nothings," the two said to the old man.

"Yes, the people who live in Nowhere are called nothings," one of them said.

"Might I ask you, sir, who might you be?" the other one inquired.

"I am the old man from Wuz," he replied.

"Sir," spoke up the other nothing, "now, just where might this Wuz be?"

The old man replied, "Well, it's back over yonder."

"Sir, it was nice meeting you," the two nothings said as they left and journeyed on.

On a hill outside of the city of Nowhere, the old man stood and watched; he could see the whole city from there. It truly was the other side of nowhere for there were nothings doing nothing. Everything the nothings did, led them nowhere. From the hill, the old man could see the drunks getting drunker. He also saw dope being snorted, sniffed, inhaled and shot up which led to nothing. It was all meaningless. There was the crack, pot, coke, smack and horse. They were engaging in parties and orgies but yet it was all meaningless. The things being done had no real meaning, truth or promise of tomorrow because it all led to nothing. It was but the pleasure of a season which was here and then gone that left them nowhere with nothing; no hope, no dreams or futures but that of a sad end. The whores, whoremongers and prostitutes roamed throughout the busy crowded streets of Nowhere without any direction. They went to and fro from nothing to nothing and were still nowhere. Diseases and plagues plagued the city. There was killing, raping and abuse of all kinds to young and old. But, it all boiled down to nothing for it all was meaningless in the end. The old man stood there on that small hill and spoke to the Lord.

"Lord, my God, is there no hope or way for these?" he questioned. "Have they somehow missed the way? Or, have they somehow not been shown? Or, maybe they have given up all hope knowing they will not change."

The old man stood there that day and watched some more. Once again, he spoke to the Lord.

"Is there not a few or one or two that might find their way? Is it not worth something that even one should be spared and make the change?"

The old man watched some more before he spoke to the Lord once again.

"Lord, if I should go into the city and find but one will it not be worth all the effort?"

So, the old man journeyed into the city. He witnessed and told the people of Nowhere of the blessed hope and way of his God, his heavenly Father and his son Jesus Christ. He worked hard, day after day, sharing and telling of the blessed promise of God's gift to all. However, the people of Nowhere just continued in their ways which lead them to nothing but a sad end. For days and days, the old man tried. He talked to young, old, cripple and blind. The more the old man searched, the deeper he slowly slipped in. For, as he was there in the midst of it, he too began to look around and see nothing.

"Is there not one among you with a twinkling spark of hope still inside?" he cried out to the nothings of Nowhere.

Then out stepped a young man. He took the old man by the hand and led him out of the city. The old man thanked him for what he had done because it was something.

The old man asked the young man, "Will you come with me out of Nowhere back to the land of Wuz?"

"I was a wuz in Wuz once," the young man said. "I took a journey to the other side of Nowhere and I never returned. I know of this blessed promise, this hope of yours and this God you call upon; I knew him well."

The old man asked, "Will you come back to him? Will you return with me and live your life full and free and be that which he would have you to be?"

"I can't go. I just can't let go," the young man said as he shook his head. "I am a nothing in a nowhere land, going nowhere except unto a bad end."

The old man replied, "But you don't have to. There's a way. You have a choice to choose."

"I'm afraid I'm much too weak," the young man said as he turned away and went back to Nowhere to be a nothing doing nothing and going nowhere.

The old man had turned from the city and was headed back to Wuz when he suddenly heard someone yelling for him to wait.

"Wait, wait, I must go with you," the young man yelled with tears in his eyes.

The old man hugged him and said, "What changed your mind?"

"Why, you did. You did, sir. You showed that you really did care," the young man said.

Proverbs 3:5

Trust in the Lord with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding.

Proverbs 3:6

In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths.

Isaiah 40:31

But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.

*****

Special Moments

Every Way That I Would Turn, Trouble Besought Me

II Corinthians 4:8

We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but not in despair;

II Corinthians 4:9

Persecuted, but not forsaken; cast down, but not destroyed.

For, it was, wherever I was, trouble besought me. No matter which way I turned or went, there was trouble. I ran and hid behind a tall, mighty oak but trouble still found me. I crawled up under a weeping willow yet trouble came. I hid up under a rock, hoping not to be found, but trouble was there before me. There was a bush where I was able to hide for only a short while. I took refuge under a fallen leaf but the wind blew and uncovered me. Trouble, trouble and more trouble besought me from above, beneath and from side to side. I called for help; there was no answer. I called again; there was no answer to be found. So, I ran and hid some more. I found refuge in the petal of a flower but I was chased out by a busy bee. I climbed high up in the tallest tree and jumped up into a cloud. As I floated safely, I thought for a while. The cloud became dark and rained me back to earth. I was found! When I fell to earth, I slid down into a cave. I was surrounded by darkness and I could not see so I just sat and waited. When I looked around, I saw two eyes looking at me. I screamed, jumped out of the cave and back into the night sky where I hung in the heaven, in the midst of it all, from a star. As I rested and tried to get a hold of myself, night passed and morning came. When the sky cleared, a rainbow came by and brought me back down to earth; the sky cleared and there was peace once again. For, the Lord had heard my call during my distress. But, he delayed his answer. As long as I tried, within myself, to hold on to the troubles, he was bound. However, when I completely let go of my troubles and let him help me, he answered.

Troubles, problems and worries affect us all sometime or another during our lives. It seems like we can't get away from them. At times, we don't know which way to turn and we fail to see the answers. Everyone has their share. However, I have found it is only when we surrender it all unto Christ and put it in his hands that our answer will come. But, it will be in his time, his way and his will. It is so easy to get caught up in it all. When we are surrounded by doubt, fear and unbelief, we fail to find the way. I want to say, Jesus Christ is the truth, light and way. Peace comes and brings its answer through our faith, love, patience, longsuffering and obedience in him.

Psalm 34:4

I sought the Lord, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears.

Psalm 50:15

And call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.

~~~~~

Though, we all have the choice to choose the road in life we travel. For, there are so many and they can be long. Some have more hills than others which will create a challenge. Some have more curves to catch us off guard. Some are straight and narrow which helps keep us on the right path. It is so easy to choose the broad and wide road because it appears to seem to offer so much yet it reveals so little at first; it can be so deceiving. But, no matter which road you choose, others can walk with you but no one can walk it for you. We can choose the wrong road, travel it for a while and turn back. We can get lost in our travels and lose our way. As the broad and wide road leads to life's troubles and trials with hurt and sorrow, it is so easy to choose the wrong road especially when we do it on our own. No matter which way we choose or what we have gone through, the wrong road will always lead us back to the right one when we seek the Lord and the straight and narrow way. Only look back at the wrong roads in your life to learn life's lessons which brought you to the right road and allowed you to have peace with the Lord.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Special Moments

To Everything There is a Season

Ecclesiastes 3:1

To every thing there is a season, and a time to ever purpose under the heaven:

During the awakening of spring, I find myself but a young man with a journey ahead. The smell of the fragrant spring flowers and the song of the birds surround me with peace and serenity along with the newly fallen rain of spring. I, a young man, shall find the way and direction of my steps. Hopefully, I will follow the path God has chosen for me. Spring is like the youth of us all. It is fresh, clean, vibrant and full of life; it holds the promise of adventure. Yet, there is a mountain that stands behind the meadow below. I shall find a way to conquer and achieve what lies before me. With Christ guiding my way, I will endure. If I choose to go alone or if I choose for God to be with me, it will be only the choice that I choose that will make all the difference. The newly fallen rain that has showered down upon the meadow and upon the hillside is necessary so the valley may be green with life. As a young man, I shall grow older as spring passes and summer comes. If I find, during the passing of the seasons of my life, that I have new promise, I can overcome what lies before me. As the spring in my life slowly turns to summer, I find myself older now and my youth is all but the memory of moments past.

Though summer may enter with trying times, there shall be a period of tribulations, struggles and battles. Within the heat of the days when the lands are dry, I shall look up unto the living God Jehovah and Christ his son for there I shall find strength in my weaknesses through the victories I have won. Where the creek once flowed full of energy and power, I find myself walking in the creek bed with the dust of its bottom clinging to my bare feet. There have been many times during the seasons of my life that it seems like I have walked alone. Although, at times, it seems like God is nowhere to be found but he is still in my heart and spirit; he hears and he is alive. Even though the meadow may be changing its color to reds, yellow and browns, I have looked back upon the times when I failed and struggled to endure. My mistakes, faults and fears are all behind me now as summer passes and autumn appears.

Through the changing of the season from summer to fall, I am surrounded by a whole new world of bright colors and deep blue skies. I am not as young as I once was. I have slowed down and I'm looking at things much different than I did years ago. The stirring of the brisk autumn breeze speaks to my heart and bones. It lets me know going home is nearby and my time is growing short. The brilliant colors of the flowers and trees paints God's masterpiece before me, assuring me the time of age will soon be here. Just as the artist paints and the poet writes, there is a still peace I find in my heart in the cool of the autumn skies. As autumn sheds its leaves and they cling to the ground, I come to the realization I shall not pass this way again. But, that I have lived and helped one, I find the stirring of joy in my heart because I have not lived in vain. As I stand upon the peak of the mountain, I look up into the sky and watch patiently as the geese pass by. I know, now, that it's a matter of time before I shall be on my way. Autumn seems like it passed too quickly and winter set in early. Now, I am but an old man with just a short journey left.

Winter came early; the ground was covered with snow. As I looked out across the snow covered field that once was green and gold with the sunlight dancing across its way, I wondered if there would be another spring with the chirping of the robins for me. But, as the Lord spoke to my heart, he let me know I would soon depart. The nights are longer now and the darkness seems darker than before. The coldness of winter runs throughout my body as the still of night draws near. You know, it's funny. As I lay here, I can smell the fragrant flowers of spring; I can see the bright lights of the summer and the brilliant colors of fall. Ain't that funny. But, the coldness of winter lingers on as I close my eyes. I, once again, stand high upon the peak of the mountain and watch patiently as the geese fly by.

Ecclesiastes 3:1

To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven:

Ecclesiastes 3:2

A time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted;

Ecclesiastes 3:3

A time to kill, a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up;

Ecclesiastes 3:4

A time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance;

Ecclesiastes 3:5

A time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing;

Ecclesiastes 3:6

A time to get, and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away;

Ecclesiastes 3:7

A time to rend, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to speak;

Ecclesiastes 3:8

A time to love, and a time to hate; a time of war, and a time of peace.

~~~~~

As the darkness covered the night sky, the silent rain fell. Not too far away, the faint sound of thunder could be heard in the distance along with the click-a-de-clack sound of a train crossing the bridge with the train's whistle slowly fading away into the night. Across the way, as the rain slowly fell, the light from a streetlight created a glassy reflection in the falling rain. The soft wet drops of water burst open as they hit the ground and created little puddles of water that quickly created little streams which began to run here and there. As the rain hit the window pane, it beaded up. As the small drops of water softly pecked on the glass, they burst and ran down the window like tears that stream down from our eyes. The silent rain fell for only a short moment and soon tapered off, with only a few drops of rain dripping here and there, leaving a wet coat of rain behind. As the night shower moved on out, I closed the curtain and fell off to sleep. I thanked the Lord for the rain that night.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

I am not worthy of the blessings of the Lord and all that he has done for me. I am no more than a hunk of clay in his hands. He is working a spiritual work in my heart and life. If I endure until the end, I believe I will walk hand and hand with him one day.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Special Moments

As the Crow Flies

There once was a young man that lived in the foothills of a mountain range not far from here. He lived there all his life and he looked forward to the day he would leave and step out into the world to search it out. As time went on and years passed, the young man stood upon the porch of his house in the early morning hours. As he stood that day, in the far off distance, he could hear the crow caw, caw, caw, caw. I must journey now such as the crow flies so I can seek out this world and all it has to offer and achieve my dreams, he spoke to his heart as the crows flew over.

Not many days later, he set out on his journey into the world to follow his dream. Time passed and he journeyed here and there; he journeyed to the four corners of the earth. He journeyed upon the seven seas and lived the life he chose. He had it all; the hustle and bustle, the fast pace of here to there, the party life and the ups and the downs. Yet, he continued to follow his dream.

As the years rolled by, the young man became broken, beaten and worn from the things of the world. He laid a derelict and a drunk on the worldly city streets. He was tired and he was getting old. His health was nearly gone. The life he chose and the dream he followed ended in the bottom of a bottle in a brown sack. Many, many times he lay awake at night and remembered his life years ago in the foothills beneath the mountain. He also remembered he chose to leave and go out into the world to find his fame and fortune. However, he only found the world's cruelty. He only found pleasure for a short season from the things of the world like the wild party life, fighting, drugs and drinking. Nowhere in the world did he find peace. Nowhere was there to be found peace of mind. All he had to show for it was what was on his back and in the brown sack he held in his hand. Not long afterwards, he became sick and near death. Then, one day, a stranger saw his need and took him to a nearby mission to get him help. There, he found food, a place to stay and a way back upon his feet. While he was there, a worker at the mission talked to him about the Lord. The worker witnessed to him and shared with him Jesus Christ, the son of God, our Savior and our Lord. The young man, now up in many years, broke down in tears and repented; he gave his heart and life to the Lord. It wasn't long before his time at the mission was up and he journeyed back out to the streets again. But, this time, things were different because he had the Lord and he was going back home to the foothills beneath the mountain.

After many days and miles of travel, he stepped back upon the foothills once again to the place he called home. He took what was left of the old shack and remodeled it into the home he once knew. The young man was now old. After many years, he sat on the porch and spent time alone with the Lord. This may seem like the end of the story but it is the beginning of another.

As time passed, there at the cabin, a morning came when he sat on his porch with a young boy who lived down the road. In the far off distance, they could hear the crows caw, caw, caw, caw. As the crows passed over to a nearby field, he looked over to the young boy. He could read the young boy's face and hear his heart telling him to go one day as the crow flies unto the world to seek all that it has to offer, to fulfill his dreams and find his way. As the crows flew by and disappeared out of sight, the faint cry, caw, caw, caw could be heard in the far off distance.

~~~~~

Accepting things and changes in our lives can sometimes be a hard thing to do for some while others don't seem to have much trouble with it. Sometimes it's hard to let go and move on. Sometimes we fail to accept things and we tend to hold on to it for a while or even for a long time before we can completely let it go. Change can be for the better and it may seem to be for the worse. It takes some of us a long time to let go and surrender some things in our lives and move on. We can't stay or live in the past. Nor can we dwell on the way it used to be. All we can do is give it to the Lord and let him guide us to our next step or phase in our lives. We will never be free or happy until we have completely accepted things and moved on with our lives. We can never change some things that hold us back. We need to burn the bridges, move on and not let the smoke of the burning bridges draw us back. We have to let the bridges turn to ashes and let the smoke disappear into the wind so we can move forward, with the Lord's help, to the next stage of our lives. Memories, there are some good and some bad. Accept them in your heart and mind because they are only memories now and nothing else. Pray and trust the Lord will open new doors; trust him and let things go. For, now it's time to move on because tomorrow is a new day and the Lord will meet you there.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Special Moments

The Flight of the Three Doves

Far up in the mountain, nestled back in the woods, lived an old man of aged years. He was a good man but his heart was bitter and cold. His cabin sat along the highest peaks of the mountain and down at the base of the mountain were roaming foothills and golden meadows. There in the meadow, surrounded by the giant peaks, rolling hills and flowing streams, sat a village where the villagers worked and the children played. And it came the time, as the seasons followed one after another, when he was trapping high up in the peaks that he came across an abandoned wagon, crippled in the snow and sleet. High in the mountain, the summers were short and the winters were bitterly long. As he searched around the wagon, he found two frozen bodies and a child in the wagon bed. The child was half frozen, starved and sick with fever. He slowly picked the child up and held it in his arms. He wrapped his coat around the child and headed for home. Not too far away, across the canyon and over the next peak, sat his cabin. As he pressed onward, he struggled and battled to keep the child alive. Hours later, he reached the cabin and placed the child in his bed. As he tried to help the child who was frozen, hungry and sick with fever, the old man battled within himself and the bitterness of his heart grew and grew.

"Lord," he cried, "don't do this to me. I mind my own business and I want to be left alone. So be it if the child should die!" he yelled.

A faint cough and cry broke the cabin's silence. He looked at the child and then to God before he dropped his head.

"There's nothing I can do, Lord. The child is nearly dead." Bitterly he spoke, "Lord, let the child die and leave me alone."

Then there was another cough and another cry. He looked to the child, then to God and dropped his head once again. As time went on, the child grew worse and worse. The old man fixed herbal teas and medicine trying to heal the child but the child grew worse and weaker as time went on. As he sat there beside the child's bed, he wrung his hands, sweated and shook his head.

"Lord, what do you want of me?" he yelled and gritted his teeth in anger. "Take my life so the child may live."

As he sat trembling, shaking and listening to the child's weak cry, he looked out the window and saw a dove sitting on a tree limb. As the dove sat and cooed, the old man remembered many years ago when the village was no more than a trading post. That same old man, a young man then, had a child all so sweet. But, the child died with a fever and for all those years he blamed God. For, he believed it was God who took his child away instead of sparing him the joy of his life. The old man dropped his head into his hands, cried and prayed as the dove cooed and the child cried. While he prayed, the dove took flight and the cry of the child became quiet. Moments later, silence still filled the room. The child slept and the old man walked the floor. Days later, in the early dawn, he had not slept or eaten. He sat beside the bed of the child and patiently waited. As time went on, the more he waited and prayed, the more the Lord healed his bitterness and filled his heart with love. As the child slept on, there appeared another dove upon the limb. As the dove cooed, the old man went over to check on the child. When he raised the child's head, he realized the fever had broken. He held the child and cried as he watched the dove take flight and disappear into the woods.

"Thank you, Lord, for sparing the child," he whispered.

Time passed and it wasn't long before the child was running around playing; it was a joy to his heart. But, there was still something wrong with the old man that he knew he must fix. There was still something he had to do. He fell down upon his knees, there in the woods, and made peace once and for all with the Lord. When he rose up, he heard the cooing sound of a dove up in the trees. As he looked up, he saw the dove take flight and disappear into the sky. The old man thanked the Lord for giving him another chance.

Psalm 100:1

Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands.

Psalm 100:2

Serve the Lord with gladness: come before his presence with singing.

Psalm 100:3

Know ye that the Lord he is God: it is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture.

Psalm 100:4

Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name.

Psalm 100:5

For the Lord is good; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth endureth to all generations.

~~~~~

The hot and lazy days of summer will soon pass. The stir of the wind will fill the air with the smell of burning leaves. Autumn's brilliant colors of fall will dress the trees. The air will become slightly chilled. The spirit of the Lord shall begin to move about from a long summer day to a long winter night. It is a change and I smile in my heart of the master's beautiful handwork. I will rest in him in all the days and be overflowed with his joy and peace until winter has passed and the early flowers of spring awaken.

Bobby A. Troutt

Isaiah 41:10

Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness.

Isaiah 41:13

For I the Lord thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not; I will help thee.

*****

Special Moments

Lord, When the Leaves Fall, I'll Return in Autumn

And there was a time in a young man's life that he went searching for some answers to some questions in his life; it was in the fall of the year. He went up into the mountains that sat at the foot of the valley in which he lived. He journeyed many days up into the mountains to a far back meadow where he could see for many miles. This young man built an altar there. He stayed there many days and prayed unto the Lord. On one particular day, he made a vow unto the Lord. He told the Lord when the leaves fall, I'll return in autumn. He left the mountains that day and journeyed home to the valley below. From there, he left and journeyed throughout the world.

As time went on, the young man got caught up in the things of the world. He was banged, beaten, knocked around, robbed and mugged; the world paid its toll upon him. Many seasons came and went. Every year, high up in the mountains at the meadow, when the leaves fell, the Lord went to meet him but the young man never came.

The story goes on. Many years have come to pass and the young man was still wandering in the world. Every year, in the fall, when the leaves began to fall the Lord went to the meadow and waited but he never came. One day, the young man took a long, hard look at himself. He saw that he was now old and a man of many hard years. He left the world behind and journeyed back to the village where he was born. When he arrived home, he journeyed up into the mountains once again and made his way back to the meadow. It was at the time when the leaves were falling; it was autumn. There he built an altar unto the Lord and prayed. The old man was there but the Lord was not there. He decided to stay in the meadow so he built a cabin there. Each and every day, he would go and pray.

The seasons continued to pass. The old man was there but the Lord still had not come. One day, as the old man walked along the stream, he saw two small children who had gotten lost and he comforted them. They fished and talked awhile before the old man led them back down to the valley below, where they lived. He thought, on his way home, of his youth and how things had been. He prayed to himself, My Lord, my God, there are so many things I wish I could change. As tears ran from his eyes, the leaves began to fall. He went and prayed, once again, but the Lord still didn't come. The seasons passed and spring arrived. The mountains and the meadow were alive with life. One day, the old man heard a cry down by the cliffs. He went down there and found a man who had fallen; the man was hurt. He took the man back to his cabin until he was healed enough to continue on his way.

Spring turned to summer and the old man was once again alone. He thought about all the rakes and scrapes he had been through in his life and how the Lord had always been there. Many times, he was near death but, by the grace of God, the Lord saw him through. Summer passed and fall had, once again, come to the meadow. The old man prayed and cried out unto the Lord. But, the Lord did not come.

It was a long, hard winter that year. The old man became very ill and lay in bed with a fever; he was helpless and alone. One night, a trapper came by and found him near death. He stayed there with the old man and tried to help him get well. The trapper did everything he could and prayed that the old man would get well. The old man's fever finally broke and he made a turn for the better. As time went on, the trapper continued to take care of him. They would sit around, read the Bible and talk about Jesus. That winter they talked about a lot of things. The old man came to know Jesus as his Savior and Lord. All the old man would say to himself was Lord, let me live to see another autumn.

Now, winter had finally broken and the sweet smell of spring was in the air. The old man was well and back on his feet. The trapper had left some time in the early morning hours without the old man's knowledge. It seemed to be a short year and the seasons passed quickly. Summer had turned, once again, to fall. He went to the altar and prayed unto the living God. The old man was there and so was the Lord. He cried and he prayed; he touched heaven that day. The old man remembered the vow he had made to the Lord, when the leaves fall, I'll return in autumn.

Psalm 109:30

I will greatly praise the Lord with my mouth; yea, I will praise him among the multitude.

Psalm 109:31

For he shall stand at the right hand of the poor, to save him from those that condemn his soul.

Psalm 111:1

Praise ye the Lord. I will praise the Lord with my whole heart, in the assembly of the upright, and in the congregation.

Psalm 112:1

Praise ye the Lord. Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord, that delighteth greatly in his commandments.

Psalm 113:1

Praise ye the Lord. Praise, O ye servants of the Lord, praise the name of the Lord.

Psalm 113:2

Blessed be the name of the Lord from this time forth and for evermore.

Psalm 113:3

From the rising of the sun unto the going down of the same the Lord's name is to be praised.

*****

Special Moments

Torn Between Two Stones

There came a time, up in the mountain range, at an old trading post where the trappers gathered to trade, sale, sit and talk. Now, the trading post set high up in the mountains along the broad canyon walls and beside a fiery river that flowed down to the plains. One day, as the trappers sat around and talked, an old trapper passed through. He listened to the others talk and tell of the unharness power and strength of the river. They told stories of how many had tried to tame the river; some who tried and failed were left lame and crippled. They spoke in fear of the rapid moving waters, the powerful current and waves that splashed high upon the canyon walls. The men were in fear and shivered at the very thought of traveling the river. Now, the old trapper, who was passing through, sat and listened with all ears. He laughed at them, boasted and bragged that he could endure. As the others sat and listened to him, he told them of how he once sailed the ocean blue and rode the stormy seas of far off lands. He explained how he was a sailor for years and there was no ocean, sea or river that he couldn't tame. He continued to talk, curse, brag a little and boast even more.

He said, "I wager a sack of gold that I'll ride her to the plains and I'll tame her."

The others sat quiet and looked at each other.

"It's suicide," one said.

Another said, "That river is a devil; it's pure evil."

But, the old trapper just spit on the floor and laughed real big.

"Do I have a taker," yelled the old trapper.

They dug in their pockets looking for nuggets and coins.

"Sure!" yelled one.

Another said, "If the old fool wants to kill himself, I'll take his money."

Now, it was a seven day journey from the trading post down to the plains. The old trapper was no fool for he had been around for a long time; if there was anything he knew, it was waters. He watched the river for many days. He watched its movement and currents. He studied and watched because he knew for him to be able to tame the river, he would have to understand it. Day after day, he walked up and down the banks to get prepared. He studied the flow of the current and the swiftness of the waves. As the others watched, they scorned him and teased him because they just knew he had chickened out. But, the old trapper just laughed it off. However, the time had come for him to take on his bet. As he boarded his raft with his supplies and things, he pushed off from the bank and headed down the river. As he disappeared out of sight, the other trappers could see the raft riding high on the river as the waves splashed about. Not too far down the river, suddenly, the river became still. The old trapper looked around in amazement, scratched his head and cursed out loud. The raft sat still and motionless. He was a little afraid at first but then he yelled out loud with a big laugh and spit in the water. He kept his guard up since he expected the river would come alive at any time and catch him off guard. He watched and waited patiently. The sun set and rose upon the first day. The river remained still and motionless. The old trapper sat and waited; he couldn't understand what was taking place. The sun set and the sun rose upon the second day. He sat still with sweat dripping from his face. He had not eaten or slept. He was tired and weak. His strength had slowly slipped away as he fought to stay awake. The sun set and rose upon the third day. He thought to himself, I have never seen anything like this. He looked up and then around, not a bird chirped nor was there any sound. The silence and the stillness of the water had all but taken its toll upon him. Weak from hunger and afraid of what he didn't understand, he continued to fight to stay awake. The sun set on the fourth day.

"I have heard tales of a God on high. If you are all that they say you are, then help me. Let yourself be known. They say you can do all things. Then let it be your will," he whispered up to heaven above.

He eventually fell off to sleep and the raft started to float down the river into the darkness of night. It came to pass, upon the sun rise of the fifth day, he was awakened suddenly by a terrifying sound. He struggled to get the raft under control. The water was troubled and the waves angered against him. He fought and he fought to stay in control of the situation. But, as the raft slammed back and forth in to the rocks and the banks, it broke apart and threw him overboard; the bits and pieces of the raft floated on down the river and out of sight. He struggled with the swift moving water trying to stay alive. The old trapper lodged himself between two big stones. The mighty river roared and moved viciously down to the canyon below. The old trapper's anger and disappointment gave him the strength to hold on between the two stones. With no help in sight and no one to turn to, the old trapper started to breakdown.

"God, if you are up there, will you hear my cry?" he cried and prayed.

As the evening of the sixth day came, night fell and the old trapper was still clinging between the two stones. He prayed and touched heaven as the darkness of night lingered on. At the rising of the sun, upon the seventh day, he raised his head and there stood a child across the bank.

The child yelled, "Hold on mister, I'll get help!"

As the child ran to get help, the old trapper believed. He thanked God and his holy name for being there for him between the two stones.

~~~~~

After the earthly storms, the smell of fresh rain is so refreshing. After the life storms, no words can describe the peace and serenity; it is such a great blessing. When the trials, tests and troubles have passed, the darkness is gone and the burden is lifted. There is a peace and rest from the Lord. So much joy fills the heart, mind and soul because the battle is over and the victory is won. I praise God for his peace that comes after life's storms and the overflowing joy in my heart. The tears of joy cry out from my soul. I have gone through one more of life's valleys and I am back on top of the mountain once more. Sometimes during life's storms ,when things seem so out of control and things are out of your hands, it is so easy to worry and hold on to them. At times, it seems so hard to let things go and put them completely in the Lord's hands; our faith falls weak. However, when we completely surrender everything to him and let go, the storms break up and move out. He gives us peace, which only comes from him, no earthly words can describe. We must believe and trust in him.

Bobby A. Troutt

Isaiah 43:2

When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee: when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned; neither shall the flame kindle upon thee.

Isaiah 43:3

For I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour: I gave Egypt for thy ransom, Ethiopia and Seba for thee.

*****

Special Moments

The Old Man and the River

Not so long ago, there lived an old mountain man who lived high up in to the mountain of a land not far away. Winter had passed and spring had come. He set out, from off the mountain, toward the village below which sat nestled at the foothill of the mountain. This old man traveled down the river, on his raft, to seek supplies from the village. He had never traveled the river before. He usually traveled by mules and went along the trail through the mountain. But, this time, he chose to take the river instead. As he traveled down the river, he looked around and saw all the beauty before his eyes. He saw snow melting off the mountain and running off into the river. He saw wild animals and mountain goats on the snow covered peaks. He heard the cry of a cougar along the river and the sound of raging water singing harmony in nature's silence. The old man thought within himself of how beautiful God's handiwork was. It came a time, there in the bend of the river, when the river divided and he had to choose which way to go. He thought within himself and made a hastily choice. As ventured on down the river, he came upon troubled waters with giant boulders and falling rocks. He struggled and fought the waves and dodged some of the falling rocks but one rock managed to hit the raft. He guided the raft over to the bank and set up camp for the night. That night, as he repaired the raft for the next day's journey, he sat around the fire and tried to understand what had happened.

The morning of the second day he arose and set out, once again, to the village below. Things went good for a while until the old man came upon another fork in the river. But, this time he took time to think about it first. One side had rough water and looked like it could possibly run into a waterfall. But, the other side was calm, peaceful and quiet. So, he thought again within himself. This time, he took a little time and he chose the quiet side. As he traveled on down the river of the choice he chose, it turned out to be deceitful. The river's looks had deceived him. He ran into raging rapids and small waterfalls. As he fought the river, he lost control, fell from the raft and lost his gear; he hung on to the raft for his life. Finally, on down the river, he was able to get back in the raft and guide it to the bank. He had nearly drowned and was completely exhausted. That night, while he sat around the fire, he thought about the two forks in the river and the choices he had made.

The morning of the third day came and he set out to the village, once again. As he traveled down the river, he looked around, thought about the two forks and thought about his life. Things went good until he came to another fork in the bend of the river. He looked the situation over; he looked at one fork and then the other. He thought within himself about the two choices he had made before. Then, he made his choice and continued on his journey. Things seemed to be good. The water was calm and the river was quiet. But, up ahead, he saw a darkness darker than night. The mountains were so high and the forest was so thick. The river was black as night and he could barely see. As he entered the darkness, he became afraid, laid face down in the raft and covered his face. For miles and miles, the raft floated and he began to cry and to pray. He thought about the first choice he made; he chose the river instead of the trail. At the first fork he made the choice himself and did not seek the Lord or ask for God's help. He wanted to do it on his own. At the second fork, he still didn't choose the Lord for he thought he had it all figured out. However, it nearly cost him his life and all that he had. Now, at the third fork, he chose, too, on his own and sought not the Lord's help. As he cried and prayed that day, night fell upon him. He sought the Lord and the Lord's will in his heart and life. As he floated on, he sought Jesus in his life. The old man touched the throne of heaven that night. The morning of the fourth day became light. He raised up from the raft and looked up and down the river. Before him, there was another fork in the river ahead. He looked up to heaven that morning, prayed and sought the Lord's will, not his. With tears in his eyes, he looked at both sides of the fork. Suddenly, he heard the coo-coo of a dove. He watched as the dove flew down the river and he knew immediately in his heart which way to go. The old man turned the raft and followed the dove. The raft floated down the river without any problems. It wasn't long, just a few miles down the river, he heard some children playing. He looked up ahead and there was the village before him. As he guided the raft in, he praised God, Jesus and their Holy name. For, now, in his heart he knew and understood  not my will O' Lord but your will be done.

Psalm 119:105

Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.

Psalm 120:1

In my distress I cried unto the Lord, and he heard me.

Psalm 138:7

Though I walk in the midst of trouble, thou wilt revive me: thou shalt stretch forth thine hand against the wrath of mine enemies, and thy right had shall save me.

*****

Special Moments

The Fallen Tree

It came a time, in the meadow of the valley, when summer was turning to fall. It was there in the meadow where an old man of many years lived. He was old, crippled and slightly bent. He lived there in the meadow of the valley which he called his home. He was a God-fearing man, a man such as you and I. The old man lived to serve the Lord and the others around him. There was a time, in his younger days, he roamed the world and sowed his wild oats. But, it all came to an end when he met his Lord and Savior Jesus Christ his Lord. Yes, this old man really made a change and he tried to set an example for others by the way he lived his life. Now, fall was falling there in the meadow where he lived and summer was slowly fading away. The air was cooler and the leaves had started to change colors and fall from the trees. He walked down through the meadow, one day, and talked to the Lord.

"Lord," he spoke. "The trees are bold and tall and the water of the brook is clear. That is good, Lord." And then he looked out across the meadow and said, "Lord, the meadow is of brilliant colors and the flowers have decorated it so with their fragrance and beauty." And the old man said, "Lord, is it not good?" As he looked high in the sky above, the geese honked as they crossed the clear blue skies. "Lord, is it not good?" he asked.

As the wind blew through his snow-white hair, he turned, looked and saw a fallen tree. The old man walked over to the tree, stood in silence and looked at it.

"Lord, is it not good?" he questioned.

Then he sat down upon the tree, looked it over and thought. And it came to pass, as the old man sat and thought, he searched his heart and life.

"I have been good," he said unto the Lord, "but, yet, I have fallen short. There were the times you told me to do something and I only went half way. There were times I was to be there for you but I didn't come."

He thought about the many times he had held back and not given his all.

He sat saddened in spirit and said, "Lord, for I have failed in many ways."

As the wind blew upon his wrinkled face and through his snow-white hair, the old man looked down at the tree stump and lo and behold he saw sprouts growing from its stump. He reached down with his hands and felt of the tender young sprouts.

"Lord, it is good," he said.

The old man left there that day and left the fallen tree behind. For, now in his heart, he had fully let go and given the Lord his all. Summer passed and fall fell. Winter came and spring returned to the meadow, in the valley, that he so loved. But, the old man had now gone on to be with the Lord. As the gentle breeze of spring blew the fragrance of the flowers and scented the meadow, the wind touched the newly grown sprouts of the fallen tree that once stood.

The Lord replied, "It is good."

*****

Special Moments

The Old Man and the Rainbow

There was a time, once, when an old man lived in a small village up in the mountains of a far off land. He was a humble servant of God and he loved the Lord God with all his heart. Now, the village where he lived was very wicked; there was wickedness all across the land. The old man, a humble servant of God, left out early each and every morning to go to a special place up in the mountains to pray. When he left the village, the people laughed at him and called him names. They mocked him, cursed him and even threw stones at him. But, the old man just waved and went on his way. Every day, he set out on a journey to a special place up in the mountains where he could be alone with God. He went each day to pray and talk to the Lord.

"Dear Lord, my God, I am old in years and all my family and most of my friends have already gone on. Lord, I am left behind. All of my joy and my strength that I have in my heart comes from you. I thank you, Lord. There just isn't much left here in this world for me to enjoy. But, Lord, oh blessed Jesus, I have so much pleasure in stealing away for just a few moments to be alone with you because it fills my heart with so much joy."

It would be late in the evening when he came back down from the mountains and returned home. As he would enter the village, there were still some people there who gave him a hard time. But, he went on his way. As time passed, there came a day upon the mountains that the old man prayed and talked to the Lord.

He cried out and said, "Oh, my God, I remember so many years ago when I was just a lad of the beautiful summers when the thunderstorms and rains would come. And, Lord Jesus, I remember how beautiful it was after the storms when the beautiful rainbows adorned the sky. Lord, I recall the storms in my life of trials and troubles. However, I can also look back and remember seeing the rainbows during those times. I thank you, my Lord God, my Lord Jesus, for those rainbows in my life."

Then, the old man sat still and dropped his head in silence. After a few moments, with tears in his eyes, he raised up and spoke to God.

"My Lord, my Lord, times have changed and many seasons have come to pass. You know, Lord, I was just thinking. It's been a long time since I have seen a rainbow in the sky," he cried out and prayed. "Lord, I believe I won't be able to make many more journeys up here to this special place in the mountains. But, Lord, I do pray that I can see just one more beautiful rainbow in the sky."

The old man rose up, grabbed his cane and set out for his journey home. As time went by, he continued to go up to the mountains and pray. One day, as he left once again, the people in the village laughed and mocked him. However, that day, he stopped, turned and looked back over his shoulder at them.

"I love you all, goodbye," he waved and said as tears ran from his eyes.

The people watched as the old man disappeared into the forest at the foothill of the mountains. He returned to the special place where he talked to the Lord. He knelt down, once again, and prayed. As he cried out with joy and out of his love for God, he raised up with tears in his eyes. To his amazement, he saw a beautiful rainbow there in the midst of the early morning mountain sky.

He smiled with tears in his eyes and said, "For truly, my God, you are the greatest of all."

The day passed and evening came. However, the old man never came down from the mountains. That evening, the villagers waited and watched for him to return. They, too, looked upon at the mountains and saw the beautiful rainbow in the sky.

~~~~~

As the long, hot days of summer slowly slips away, the long awaited autumn will soon fall. As the hot days of the summer breeze will soon pass and the renewing of the slightly cool breeze of fall moves in, the seasons change and awakens us to the new refreshing days of brilliant colors aglow. I shall find rest in the Lord, of the days gone by, as I capture the beauty of his handiwork unto a peace I have so longed for.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

I sought the Lord and I heard not. I was drowned by silence all around me. The loneliness laid heavy upon me. I turned again unto the Lord and I still heard not. I was being killed by the quietness. I called out; I cried out but I still heard nothing. I quickly looked about and I couldn't find him. The depression was so deep and the loneliness was so silent. The enemy stirred about me and tried to bring me down even more. I fought and fought but still I was in wait. "Lord, Lord, my God," I cried out in the loneliness of the darkness as my depression grew worse. "Where, O Lord, might I find thee?" I searched and searched but he was nowhere to be found. Then, when all hope was nearly gone, I heard from him. He picked me up out of my lonely depression and I cried. My thoughts began to clear as the depression slowly moved out and his presence grew stronger. I waited and cried some more. Through his spirit, his voice spoke to me. I felt comfort and peace through his love. "My child, my child, you are not alone, for I have been here all along," the Lord spoke to my heart and mind. I relaxed in the silence since I knew he was with me. The loneliness and depression disappeared from me as I rested in the arms of the Lord.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Special Moments

The Dust in the Wind and the Fallen Tree

There came a time, a time before the season and a time after a long while, that the rains had not fallen. No one knew the last time the rains had fallen. The earth was dry and its face was cracked. From day to day, the wind sat still. There was an old man who was a humble servant of God; he prayed and sought the Lord's will. One day, the old man sat and talked to the Lord.

"O' master," he cried, "there are many things I don't understand. Lord, there are a lot of questions but no answers. Can you answer the question in my heart?"

The Lord knew the old man's heart was true so he sent a dove by, high in the sky. Through the dove, the Lord spoke to the old man's heart and told him to follow the dove. The old man rose to his feet and followed the dove as it flew toward the east. As time passed and many days came and went, he stood on the outskirts of a town. The dove flew over as he walked down the streets of the town. The air was dry and stale with a foul odor in the air. The people were eating, drinking and being merry. There were men kissing men and women kissing women. There was laughter, cursing, killing and crying no human ears had ever heard before. There were people being bought and sold as slaves, young and old. There were women with many men and men with many women. Children were offered up as sacrifices and the carcasses of the dead lay everywhere he stepped. As he passed through the town, a man opened a door and pitched a bucket out at his feet; a body of an unborn child with two arms, two legs and two feet fell out of the bucket.

The old man looked up at the sky and said, "Master, what is the answer to it all?"

The sky was black and there was no sign of the dove. He journeyed on; the people cursed him and threw stones at him. As he left the city, he saw the dove lying on the ground, dead. He walked on to a hill outside of the town, knelt down and prayed. He raised up and, once again, asked the Lord for the answer to his heart. The old man sat, waited and listened for the Lord to reply. The Lord eventually spoke to him. The old man sat and watched the wind blow the dust from the nearby hills and dropped his head in his hands. As a tear fell from his eye, he looked to the hills and saw the wind blow the dust into the air three times.

"Jesus, my savior, my Lord, I believe you have answered the question of my heart," he said as he looked up to the heavens.

*****

Special Moments

Flowers

Matthew 6:28

And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin:

Matthew 6:29

And yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.

Matthew 6:30

Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which to day is, and to morrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith?

There was an old man, one time, who tended a flower garden. He kept watch over it and took care of its needs. It was a beautiful garden with all different kinds and colors of flowers. Some of the flowers were big and some were small. The flowers' fragrance dressed the garden so. He watered, weeded, mulched and pruned the flowers in the garden. The garden consisted of flags, petunias, impatiens, marigolds, tulips and so many more. The brilliant colors of the flowers brought a sparkling glow to the garden and a cheer to the old man's heart and all others that came to visit his garden. Each and every day, the old man would sat in the midst of the flower garden and prayed unto the Lord. He had long talks with him concerning many things. But, he never fussed, complained, bickered or murmured for, in his heart, he knew some way and somehow the Lord would see him through. As he sat and talked to the Lord, he looked out across the garden and saw some tiny butterflies dancing from flower to flower and a hummingbird drawing nectar from the trumpet flower. He also admired the daisies, black-eyed Susans, roses, mums and so many other flowers.

Yes, the old man worked hard to take care of the garden. He spent long, hot days making sure it got what it needed. However, the old man knew no matter what he did or how much he tried, it was the merciful and loving hand of the Lord that created the beauty of the garden. He knew he could only do what the Lord would have him to do; the Lord made all the difference. He would sit and study, time and time again, of how the Lord had always been there for him and how he would always bring him through. Even though, during those times, the Lord was nowhere to be found. Regardless, he still came unto him, loved him and saw him through.

Seasons passed and seasons went. The garden gave a bountiful harvest with the help of the Lord and the work of the old man's hands. There was a season when the flowers from the old man's labor brought joy to all. Everyone who visited the garden always told him what a great job he was doing and how beautiful the flowers were. He was always quick to tell them it was nothing within him but the Lord, his helper and keeper.

When spring came, the crocuses would appear out of the snow and the rainbow of tulips touched the garden from one end to the other. From year to year, the buttercups and daffodils opened the way for spring and summer. The lilies stood oh so true with dark green foliage along with the ferns.

Now, there came a time when the old man gave up the garden and passed on. Years passed as the garden grew with weeds and thorns. Most of the flowers perished and there was nothing left but a few scattered blooms here and there. The last signs of the garden slowly disappeared and so did the work of the old man's life. There was nothing left but the memory of the old man and his garden of many flowers.

Psalm 145:8

The Lord is gracious, and full of compassion; slow to anger, and of great mercy.

Psalm 145:9

The Lord is good to all: and his tender mercies are over all his works.

Psalm 145:10

All thy works shall praise thee, O Lord; and thy saints shall bless thee.

Psalm 145:17

The Lord is righteous in all his ways, and holy in all his works.

Psalm 145:18

The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth.

Psalm 145:19

He will fulfil the desire of them that fear him: he also will hear their cry, and will save them.

Psalm 145:20

The Lord preserveth all them that love him: but all the wicked will he destroy.

~~~~~

So many times, I fail to say I love you, Lord. So many times, I fail to say, thank you, Lord. Often, I am at a loss for words as I struggle through the days that go by. You, so often, send so many blessings my way. That is so breathtaking; my words cannot began to say how I feel. You are always there for me and you help me get through each day. So many times, I get caught up in the things of the day and I begin to doubt that I'm not going to make it through. But, you hold my hand and my heart; you help me so. I just want to say, I love you, Lord.

Bobby A. Troutt

Psalm 121:1

I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help.

Psalm 121:2

My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth.

Psalm 121:3

He will not suffer thy foot to be moved: he that keepeth thee will not slumber.

Psalm 121:4

Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep.

Psalm 121:5

The Lord is thy keeper: the Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand.

Psalm 121:6

The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night.

Psalm 121:7

The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil: he shall preserve thy soul.

Psalm 121:8

The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth, and even for evermore.

*****

Special Moments

Where the Lilies Grow

There was a time, a beautiful meadow set in the valley of the mountains. This beautiful, golden meadow was enriched with beautiful flowers and trees with a sparkling stream that ran through it. This was a place where the lilies grew. Not far from the meadow, there lived a humble servant of God. This man came each and every day to the meadow to pray and seek God. Yes, he was a humble servant and loved the Lord God with all his heart; he worked hard and walked with the Lord each day. Yes, time went by, season after season passed and he went to the meadow and prayed.

One day, not so long ago, things changed. He stopped coming to the meadow every day to pray and seek God. He had gotten so busy and tied up with things that he didn't have the time to go and pray; he went a day here and a day there. When he did go, he only stayed a few minutes, said just a few words, turned and walked away. This routine went on for a spell. The few times he went to the meadow, he didn't realize how it was changing. It, too, like the man was slowly dying, drying up and withering away. If he, when he went to the meadow, had only stopped and taken a few minutes to look around, he would have seen what was happening. But, he was too busy and too unconcerned. He had turned away from his first love.

Then, one day, he just stopped going at all. The seasons changed from summer to fall, from fall to winter, from winter to spring and from spring to summer. As time passed, year after year, one day he journeyed back to the meadow. He looked out across the meadow and what he saw brought tears to his eyes. The meadow had died. There hadn't been any rain for so long; it had burnt up and withered away. The stream that once ran sparkling water was nothing but an empty dust-filled ditch with large, hard stones. He fell to his knees and cried out unto God. As he cried and prayed, he compared the meadow to his spiritual life and what it had become.

"Oh, my God, my blessed Jesus, my spiritual life was once beautiful and full of life like the meadow but now it is dead and lifeless. Oh, my God, my blessed Jesus, I wish I could get back to where I used to be, where the lilies grow. Oh, my God, if you could restore me back to my glory days."

He stood for a few more minutes, looked away, then turned and walked away. Every day he went to the barren meadow, cried out unto God and prayed. Day after day, he sought the Lord that he might live again. One day, he sat down in the meadow upon a rock and opened up his heart to the Lord Jesus.

"Lord, if I could just get back to where the lilies grow," he said. "Oh what joy would fill my soul," he cried.

After a while, he stood up to leave. When he looked down at the ground, not far from where he had prayed, he saw a small lily in bloom.

"I love you, Lord," he shouted as he fell to his knees and cried.

Soon after, he felt the blessing of drops of rain. That day, his heart was filled with his first love. He stood and raised his hands toward the cloudy skies above and he praised God and his Holy name.

"Thank you, Jesus. Thank you, my Lord, for restoring me back to where the lilies grow."

~~~~~

Oh, Lord, I have often thought of how it would be to soar like an eagle in the sky, to fly in and out of the clouds above and glide about so gracefully. I have often wondered how it would be to walk barefoot on the clouds and feel it seeping up between my toes or to stand on them and look down at the earth below. How great it would be, oh Lord, to lay back, slowly float from here to there, roll over and over, jump up and down and turn flips about. Lord, when I look up at the sky from the earth below, it doesn't seem as lonely up there as it sometimes seems down here below. In the sky above, oh Lord, the sunlight sparkles, shines and glitters like gold. Oh, Lord, I would love to someday play in the clouds above for just a day or a moment or two to leave all my troubles, sorrows and pains behind. That is all that I ask of you. Lord, I have often thought about how it would be and how I would love to spend some time with you.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

Psalm 91

He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty.

2 I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress: my God; in him will I trust.

3Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from the noisome pestilence.

4He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust: his truth shall be thy shield and buckler.

5Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; nor for the arrow that flieth by day;

6Nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness; nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday.

7A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand; but it shall not come nigh thee.

8Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked.

9Because thou hast made the Lord, which is my refuge, even the most High, thy habitation;

10There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling.

11For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways.

12They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone.

13Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet.

14Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver him: I will set him on high, because he hath known my name.

15He shall call upon me, and I will answer him: I will be with him in trouble; I will deliver him, and honour him.

16With long life will I satisfy him, and shew him my salvation.

~~~~~

As I sit in a moment of silence, my mind begins to wonder and my thoughts begin to stir. Heavy are my thoughts as I think about the question I asked the Lord. I waited patiently in that silent moment. However, when he spoke, his reply was not what I expected to hear. He let me know it wasn't time for him to answer my question yet. But, as time passed and the days went by, he answered my question; his answer proved to be better than what I had expected. For, he saw my question in a different way than I had. Although it wasn't the way I thought it would be, his way was true, honest and a better way than mine. I knew in my heart his way was true and I humbly accepted his answer. I knew without a doubt that he was right because he knew, so much better than I, what was best for me. I didn't understand it at first. But, as time passed, it became clearer to me. I praise God and his only son, Jesus, that in times when I need to talk to someone, I can sit down and talk to him; he'll talk to me about all the things I have on my heart and my mind.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

I stood and looked out the window as the rain slowly fell. I looked out across the way and saw the loneliness of the day. It was so quiet as I watched the rain fall to the earth. The dark clouds laid under the heavens. I didn't hear any thunder nor did I see any lightning. All was so quiet as I stood alone. My heart longed to hear from the Lord as I waited patiently to hear his voice. My eyes filled with tears as I heard no answer; I felt so alone. I continued to look out and wait. All seemed so hopeless but I still waited. As I slowly began to tire, I dropped my head, turned and started to walk away. However, I stopped and looked back when I heard a voice speak to my heart. It was the voice of the Lord and he told me that I was not alone. As tears ran from my eyes, a brief smile came across my face. I stood there and watched the rain slowly fall that day and my loneliness faded away.

Bobby A Troutt

~~~~~

As autumn slowly moved in, the warm breeze of summer gave way to a bit of a chill as autumn began to fall. Slowly, the leaves changed to so many breathtaking colors which, too, will soon fall. High in the sky above, the geese passed over as they headed south for the winter. As the smell of burning leaves lurked about the air, the mums began to open. Autumn, autumn, autumn, displayed such a brilliant bouquet of colors and dressed the landscape as the smoke of the chimneys broke through the blueish gray clouds above. It was a time of change and of rest for Mother Nature as old man winter prepared for his arrival. As the leaves changed, the autumn rains and the fall winds slowly moved the leaves to the ground. The trees became naked for winter was not too many days away. The long days of summer have passed and soon autumn will have fallen. And, the joy of looking for winter's first snow would arrive sooner than anyone thought. Autumn, autumn, autumn so long have I waited.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

Winter has passed and spring has come. I was a small, young bud on a twig of a tall tree. Like so many others, I was waiting to open to my new life. As the warmth of the spring breeze slowly moved me, the light from the sun began to slowly open me up and I grew and grew until I was fully open. During the days of spring, I dressed the tree with all of my fullness. In the summer I, too, dangled from a limb during the hot summer days and slowly moved about as a slight breeze blew by me. But, it would be in autumn when my true beauty would be revealed. In autumn, as I dangled from a twig, I slowly moved with the breeze and the sun displayed my brilliant colors for all to see; I was burnt orange with a little touch of crimson and my friends around me were yellow, light green, crimson red and a bright orange. Yes, it was in autumn that my beauty beheld joy to all who looked upon me. When autumn passed and winter grew near, it was time for my fall. My stem broke away from the twig and I slowly floated to the ground where I laid with the rest of my friends. During my fall, I may slowly float down or I may spin about. When I hit the ground, I may lay there for a while until a cool breeze comes by and flips me over and over as I ballet across the ground. For, I am nothing but a leaf which has fallen from a tree.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Discover other titles by Bobby A. Troutt at Smashwords.com

Beyond the Truth

A Cry in the Wind

Thistles and Thorns

Dead Limbs and Leaves

Troubled Waters

When Autumn Falls

When Time Was

Bittersweet

Sycamore Tales

Stepping Out on a Limb

Odds n Ends

Turning Point

The Fall of Night

In Times of Quitting

Still Wind, Forgotten Days

In Times of Trouble

Bobby A. Troutt is a southern writer who writes a variety of short stories, spiritual books and children's books.
