 
Still Voice

Bobby A. Troutt

Copyright 2015 by Bobby A. Troutt

Smashwords Edition

Thank you for downloading this free ebook. You are welcome to share it with your friends. This book may be reproduced, copied and distributed for non-commercial purposes, provided the book remains in its complete original form. Thank you for your support.

Table of Contents

O' Thou of Little Faith

The Wages of Sin is Death; but, the Gift of God is Eternal Life through Jesus Christ our Lord

Called by Grace (Looking in a Different Light)

Serenity is not Freedom from the Storm but Peace Amidst the Storm

The Eye of the Storm

There's Life after Repentance

Thorns and Roses

*****

Still Voice

O' Thou of Little Faith

Thought to Keep in Mind: O' Thou of Little Faith

Scripture Reading: Matthew 14:22-33

Comment – Here we find, in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto the disciples walking on the sea. When they saw Jesus, the disciples were troubled and they cried out, "It is a spirit." And, they cried out with fear. But, Jesus said, "Be of good cheer; it is I, BE NOT AFRAID!" That's exactly what Jesus is telling us today, BE NOT AFRAID. Satan has bound down God's people with fear. He has them so afraid to do anything for God. I believe that fear, doubt and unbelief are a few of the many strongholds Satan has on people. If God says to fear not, we shouldn't be afraid.

Here we find, Peter was the only one of the disciples who stepped out of the boat on faith and went to the Lord Jesus. Peter was the only one who even attempted to make an effort when he heard the Lord's call. How is your faith? Are you stepping out of the boat onto the water? Are you taking a chance for Jesus? Are you willing to sacrifice something for him? Are you walking on the water or are you afraid? If you notice, the other disciples stayed in the boat where they were safe and secure; they thought. They were not willing to step out on faith because they were afraid and bound down by the fear of Satan. They were afraid to move. That's the way people are today. They let the devil put fear in their lives and they are bound. They are prisoners in the Promise Land and prisoners of their own fear. At least, Peter made an effort. Do you know how and why? Because, he had his eyes on Jesus when he stepped out of the boat and onto the water. In I John 4:18 – There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear: because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. Peter had no fear because he was walking in perfect love. His eyes, mind, heart and soul was on Jesus Christ our Lord. Jesus spoke to Peter and told him to come so Peter began to walk on water. That's the way it should be with you, today, when the Holy Spirit speaks to your heart and mind. When you hear the voice of Jesus, you need to set out on faith and begin to walk on water. But, don't jump in until you realize it lives up to 100% of God's word. Because, sometimes, the devil speaks to you also and it's hard to know if it is Jesus or the devil talking. Listen close, check it with God's word, wait, be patient, step out on faith and walk if you are sure it's God. Peter came walking on the water and the devil began to stir up the winds causing the waters to build. Peter took his eyes off Jesus, just for a minute, and he saw what was around him. He let his faith down and the devil entered into him fear; the perfect love was taken out by doubt and unbelief. He began to sink and cried out for Jesus. Has it ever happened to you? It has me, many times. Jesus permitted the devil to do that to Peter. Why, because Peter needed to learn to overcome fear. The devil knows what your fears are. He knows what makes you tick and he's going to use your fears and weaknesses against you to destroy what you use to keep your eyes on Jesus. Walk in the spirit of God. Walk in harmony with God and let the Holy Ghost of God teach you and lead you in perfect love. When Peter cried out for the Lord to save him, Jesus reached forth his hand, caught him and said, "O' thou of little faith wherefore didst thou doubt." When they had come into the ship the winds had ceased. What Jesus said to Peter applies to us, today. Jesus said, "O' thou of little faith wherefore didst thou doubt." Can you believe and walk on water? It depends on you.

Do you have your eyes on Jesus? Is your heart right with God? Are you walking by faith in his perfect love?

II Corinthians 5:7

(For we walk by faith, not by sight:)

My Opinion: I believe there are two fears in the Bible. The fear of God and the fear Satan puts in us.

Fear of God – Genesis 3:6-12

Genesis 3:10

And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.

Adam, after they had sinned in the garden, became afraid. They had disobeyed God and Adam had sinned. They knew they had done wrong. They were afraid – disobedient – fear of God.

Matthew 14:12-31

Matthew 14:30

But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me.

Jesus walked on the water but Peter became afraid because of doubt and unbelief, two good illustrations of fear from the devil.

You should fear God above all. You should not fear the devil because God is Almighty. If you walk with Jesus and you keep your eyes on him, God will deliver.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

II Timothy 1:7

For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.

God has not given his people the bondage of fear. God has delivered his people out of Egypt, out of slavery. Jesus died on the cross and rose from the dead. You are no more a slave to sin and Satan. You are free, free in Jesus your Lord and Savior if you are born again and your sins are under his blood. If they are not, I pray you'll do something about it before it is too late.

Matthew 10:28

And fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul: but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.

You better fear God Almighty because he can destroy both body and soul. Fear not man or the devil, for God can deliver you both body and soul. If you are lost, today, I pray you will cry out unto the living God through Jesus Christ his son. God will deliver you out of Egypt, out of slavery of sin and the devil and set you free. You'll be born again and washed in the blood of the Lamb of God.

Hebrew 11:1

Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.

Through faith, God can work in our lives with total trust and commitment. By faith and love, we can stand on God's word.

Question: Have you ever seen air? I say you haven't. By faith or believing you know it's there because you are alive (substance of things hoped for, evidence of things not seen). You have to have air to live. Although you have never seen it, you know it's there. That's the same way it is with Jesus. Although you haven't seen Jesus, God, heaven or hell, by faith, you believe they are real. Without God sending his son you have no eternal life. I believe that God breathed into the nostril of Adam and he did the same for you. The Bible says he became a living soul. You must accept everything by faith.

I John 4:18

There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear; because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love.

Romans 8:15

For ye have not received the Spirit of bondage again to fear; but ye have received the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father.

Romans 8:16

The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are the children of God:

Isaiah 41:10

Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will hold thee with the right hand of my righteousness.

Isaiah 41:13

For I the Lord thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not; I will help thee.

Satan challenges the promise of God with fear. He tries to make it look as if those promises will not work for you. Walking in love gets rid of fear.

Luke 10:27

And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself.

Fear is one of Satan's choice weapons. You can stop it, rebuke it and renounce it through God's word.

Final Comment: In II Kings 6:1-23 you will read that Elisha was a man who overcame fear and walked in perfect love by faith. The three Hebrew children and Daniel were some more who did the same. Read about them, learn from them and grow in the Lord.

Read Hebrew Chapter 11

Dictionary:

Fear

A painful feeling of impending danger, evil or trouble. The feeling or condition of being afraid.

Faith

Trust in God and his promise as made through Christ by which man is justified or saved.

Smile, Jesus loves you and God really does care.

~~~~~

We stand, sometimes, on the banks of the river of this life and we can't see all the way across. Because of the unknowing, we get uneasy about what lies ahead. We are unsure of things and sense we might not be able to handle it. It is then when we must surrender it all in the hands of Jesus and let him carry us through. Be not afraid to step off the bank. He will be there for you, if you believe.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

Lift up your hands and praise the true and only living God. For, he has already made a way for you through Jesus Christ his only son. Count it all joy and praise the Lord. He will help you fight the battle and see you through. The victory is yours through him, if you believe.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Still Voice

The Wages of Sin is Death; but, the Gift of God is Eternal Life through Jesus Christ our Lord

Thought to Keep in Mind:

Romans 6:23

The wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Genesis 2:8

And the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he put the man whom he had formed.

Genesis 2:9

And out of the ground made the Lord God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.

Genesis 2:10

And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence it was parted, and became into four heads.

And the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden. There he put the man, Adam, who he had formed from the dust of the earth.

Genesis 2:15

And the Lord God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it.

Genesis 2:16

And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat:

Genesis 2:17

But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.

And God commanded Adam to leave the tree of the knowledge of good and evil alone, not to eat of it. But, everything else in the garden he could freely eat. In Genesis 2:18-25 we read where God created Eve. The Lord caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam. He took a rib from Adam and made a woman whose name came to be Eve. We read in Genesis 3:1-13 how the old serpent, the devil, deceived Eve. She and Adam fell and sin entered into all mankind.

Romans 5:12

Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:

The wages of sin is death. Now, lets look over into John 19.

John 19:1

Then Pilate therefore took Jesus, and scourged him.

John 19:2

And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns, and put it on his head, and they put on him a purple robe,

John 19:3

And said, Hail, King of the Jews! and they smote him with their hands.

John 19:4

Pilate therefore went forth again, and saith unto them, Behold, I bring him forth to you, that ye may know that I find no fault in him.

John 19:5

Then came Jesus forth, wearing the crown of thorns, and the purple robe. And Pilate saith unto them, Behold the man!

John 19:6

When the chief priests therefore and officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him, crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Take ye him, and crucify him: for I find no fault in him.

And they scourged Jesus, crowned him with a crown of thorns, and put on him a purple robe. Pilate told them to take him and crucify him for he found no fault in him.

John 3:16

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

John 3:17

For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.

After Jesus hung there on the cross, he gave up the ghost. The shedding of his precious blood and his death that day upon Calvary Hill was for the forgiveness of our sins and the sins of the world. It was for all those who comes freely and accepts him by faith of what he has done and continues to do. They laid him in a tomb and upon the third day Jesus walked out of that tomb and overcame sin, death and hell. We have the gift of eternal life through Jesus. We are victorious by what Jesus Christ the son of the living God did for us with his birth, his blood, his death and his resurrection. The gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Romans 3:10

As it is written, There is none righteous, no, not one:

There are none righteous, no, not one, because of the fall of Adam in the garden. We are born into sin and are born sinners. Jesus Christ was the only one ever born without spot or blemish; he was born without sin. He never sinned but yet bore our sins. He was born of the virgin birth. He was the perfect sacrifice to come and shed his blood for the sins of the world. No other way shall a man be saved. No other way will a man be born again except by the way of the old rugged cross and through Jesus Christ the son of God.

Isaiah 64:6

But we are all as an unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags; and we all do fade as a leaf; and our iniquities, like the wind, have taken us away.

If Jesus had been born like us and not born of the virgin birth by the power of the living God, by the Holy Ghost of God, he would not have been sufficient to die for our sins.

Ephesians 2:4

But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us,

Ephesians 2:5

Even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ, (by grace ye are saved;)

We are no more than the dust of the earth.

Ephesians 2:8

For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God:

Ephesians 2:9

Not of works, lest any man should boast.

We are saved by grace through faith in Jesus Christ our Lord. We cannot save ourselves. We cannot work our way into heaven or even live good enough to make it. We must be drawn by the Holy Spirit of God to heartfelt repentance and humble ourselves before an almighty God. We have to repent of our sins, turn from our sinful ways and accept Jesus Christ by faith in our hearts and believe what he has done for us. We must be saved by grace through faith.

Romans 3:23

For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God;

We all have sinned and we all have fallen short

John 14:6

Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.

John 10:9

I am the door: by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture.

John 10:10

The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.

The wages of sin is death but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Romans 5:8

But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.

Even while we were still in our sins, Jesus died for us. For, God so loved the world.

John 15:13

Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.

Will the world ever comprehend what God has done for them? Will they ever see the light? If the world doesn't see it in the Christian, I don't think the world will ever see it.

Matthew 5:14

Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid.

Matthew 5:15

Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house.

Matthew 5:16

Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.

Church world are your lights shining? Can the world see Jesus in you? Can they see something you have that the world doesn't? Can they recognize it enough to make them want some of it? If you are lost and still in your sins, you need to get things worked out with the Lord. Today is the day of salvation for tomorrow may be the judgment.

Matthew 4:17

From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say, Repent: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.

The decision you make today will determine where you will spend eternity. Will you accept Jesus or will you turn him away? I mean accept him in your heart, like the born again experience in John 3:1-8. Nicodemus was thinking about a fleshly birth but Jesus was talking about a spiritual birth. Can you, today, accept him and what he has done for you and by faith in your heart and life?

John 3:3

Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.

I believe the change is made in a person's heart. When the old person dies out unto sin and death, a new creature in Christ Jesus is resurrected in their heart and life; they are born again. Old things are passed away under the blood of Jesus Christ the son of the living God. New things come to light through Christ. The wages of sin is death but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Romans 10:9

That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved.

Romans 10:10

For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation.

Will you accept Jesus today?

Luke 19:10

For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost.

I want you to take a few minutes and think about your life. Think about how it has been, where you are and where you are going. Take time out to think about yourself and your soul.

Revelation 3:20

Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me.

You have a choice. The wages of sin is death but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Will you choose death or will you choose life? Nobody can make the decision for you. It is your choice of heaven or hell. If the Holy Spirit of God is dealing with you and knocking upon your hearts door, now is the time to do something about it.

Luke 18:15

And they brought unto him also infants, that he would touch them: but when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them.

Luke 18:16

But Jesus called them unto him, and said, Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God.

Luke 18:17

Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein.

We come under Jesus' conditions and terms. Are you willing? God has done all he is going to do.

Isaiah 55:6

Seek ye the Lord while he may be found, call ye upon him while he is near:

Isaiah 55:7

Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

It all began with the fall of Adam in the Garden of Eden. But, the part of your sin and death, today, can end now with the shed blood, death and resurrection of Jesus. If, you will accept what Jesus Christ has done for you in your heart and life.

Romans 6:23

For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

~~~~~

Getting too close to a hole and falling in is a game the devil likes to play. It's his job to tempt you so you will fall into his snares and traps. The more you play around with him, the deeper into the hole you'll fall. Shake him loose, cast him behind you and draw nigh unto God. Resist the devil and he will flee from you or he will bury you in a hole of darkness.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

Living too far from the river can cause spiritual weakness. If we don't pray and read God's word daily, we can easily become spiritually stale. We need to be fed daily and keep a close personal fellowship with the Lord so we can be strong in faith to fight and resist the enemy. When we are cut off from our spiritual source, prayer and God's word, we allow ourselves to fall in to the hands of the enemy. Stay close to the Lord and be fed through the only river of eternal life in Jesus Christ our Lord.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Still Voice

Called by Grace (Looking in a Different Light)

Thought to Keep in Mind (the stoning of Stephen):

Acts 7:54

When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed on him with their teeth.

Acts 7:55

But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up stedfastly into heaven, and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the right hand of God.

Acts 7:56

And said, behold, I see the heaven opened, and the Son of man standing on the right hand of God.

Acts 7:57

Then they cried out with a loud voice, and stopped their ears, and ran upon him with one accord.

Acts 7:58

And cast him out of the city, and stoned him: and the witnesses laid down their clothes at a young man's feet, whose name was Saul.

Acts 7:59

And they stoned Stephen, calling upon God, and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.

Acts 7:60

And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. And when he had said this, he fell asleep.

In verse 58, they cast Stephen out of the city and stoned him. And, the witnesses laid down their clothes at a young man's feet whose name was Saul. I believe the sermon Stephen preached was when Saul first heard the true gospel and I believe that's when God began to work on Saul. Something to think about; if you're saved and born again unto the Spirit of God then you're called by grace to do a work in the kingdom of God by looking in a different light and looking unto Jesus. Have you seen the light which is Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior, the son of the true and living God? If you have, you're called by grace.

First Scripture Reading: Acts 9

Acts 9:1

And Saul, yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went unto the high priest,

Acts 9:2

And desired of him letters to Damascus to the synagogues, that if he found any of this way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem.

We find here, a man named Saul, a man who believed he was serving God. He thought he was carrying out God's will by breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord. Saul, a persecutor of the Christians and a hater of the Christians, believed, with no doubt, he was doing the will of God.

Proverbs 14:12

There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.

Saul was a man who thought he had it all together. He believed he was serving God by persecuting the disciples of the Lord. He was a man on the wrong road but believed he was doing right. Is there any hatred or anything in your heart not right with God? Have you been persecuting your brothers and nailing them to the cross? Is there any envy or strife in your heart? Do you have any resentment or bitterness toward your neighbor or anyone? What about prejudice? You need to search it out, make it right and keep it right in the eyes of Jesus.

Proverbs 21:2

Every way of a man is right in his own eyes: but the Lord pondereth the hearts.

The Bible says, "Every way of a man is right in his own eyes: but the Lord pondereth the hearts." What does God see, right now, in your heart? Does he see another Saul?

Acts 9:3

And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus: and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven:

Acts 9:4

And he fell to the earth, and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?

Acts 9:5

And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.

Acts 9:6

And he trembling and astonished said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do.

Acts 9:7

And the men which journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing a voice, but seeing no man.

Acts 9:8

And Saul arose from the earth; and when his eyes were opened, he saw no man: but they led him by the hand, and brought him into Damascus.

Acts 9:9

And he was three days without sight, and neither did eat nor drink.

Saul was on the road to Damascus and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven. Let me ask you, which road are you on? Are you on the road to Damascus like Saul? Which way, in your life, have you chosen to take? There aren't but two ways; the only two places to go. Search out your heart and ask yourself which way you are going and where you are headed.

Matthew 7:13

Enter ye in at the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat:

Matthew 7:14

Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.

Broad is the way to destruction and many there be which go in thereat.

Romans 6:23

For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Straight is the gate and narrow is the way unto life and few there be that find it.

John 14:6

Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.

Open your eyes so you can see what lies before you. Where are you going to spend eternity?

Romans 3:23

For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God;

Saul was on the road to Damascus when a light from heaven shined around him. He fell to the earth and heard a voice say, "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" Maybe the Lord is calling your name, today. Maybe he's knocking upon your heart's door and wants to come into your life. Maybe he wants you to change something in your life. Jesus loves you, today. Will you let him help you? Is the Lord dealing with you? Is he calling you by name? Remember, Mary went to the tomb and found the tomb was empty. She was crying when the Lord called for her. "Mary," he said. The Lord knows us by name. He knows every hair on our head. He knows every laugh we laugh and every tear we shed. He's that real, alive and near. "Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?" Is he calling your name? Which road are you on? Have you seen the light? Is Jesus Christ in your heart and life? Has God made a change in your life and in your heart? Are you, today, called by grace unto the blessing of God? Notice, Saul said, "Who art thou, Lord?" Saul called him Lord. And Jesus said, "I am Jesus whom thou persecutest."

Saul was a man who believed, without a doubt, he was serving of God in the right way. But, look what he did. He laid down upon the earth. How far do you have to go before you'll finally look up and realize the truth? The Bible said Saul was trembling and astonished when he said, "Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?" I don't care how big of a drunk you are or how much dope you do. And, I don't care how sick in sin you are. Jesus Christ, the son of the true and living God, can deliver you out of that sin-sick mess and set you free from it by and through his precious blood and the work on Calvary. Be saved by grace, through faith, and called by grace to be a disciple and worker in the kingdom of God. However, you must come by and through his virgin birth, his blood, his death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord and Savior, the Son of God. No other way will you be saved; no other way will you live eternally. Notice where Saul was; he had fallen to the earth. We must come humble before a righteous and holy God by being honest and sincere with ourselves and with God. Notice, Saul trembled. We are nothing within ourselves. It's all in Christ Jesus. Saul said, "What wilt thou have me to do?" Saul was in no position to plea-bargain. The Lord found Saul like he really was. Saul was willing and wanting to do what Christ Jesus asked. Is the Lord calling your name? Are you on the road to Damascus like Saul? Have you seen the light? Are you called by grace to do a work for God? Even though Saul was as bad or mean as he was, God saw fit to spare him. Saul was called by grace to do a work for God. Christians, if you are saved and born again of the spirit of God, you are called by grace to work in the kingdom of God. Saul said, "What wilt thou have me to do?"

Acts 9:7

And the men which journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing a voice, but seeing no man.

Acts 9:8

And Saul arose from the earth; and when his eyes were opened, he saw no man: but they led him by the hand, and brought him into Damascus.

Acts 9:9

And he was three days without sight, and neither did eat nor drink.

Saul was on the road to Damascus. When the light shined from heaven, he fell to the earth, heard the voice out of heaven and trembled. Think about how it will be at the judgment. Are you ready?

Acts 9:9

And he was three days without sight, and neither did eat nor drink.

Acts 9:10

And there was a certain disciple at Damascus, named Ananias; and to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias. And he said, Behold, I am here, Lord.

Acts 9:11

And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the street which is called Straight, and enquire in the house of Judas for one called Saul of Tarsus: for, behold, he prayeth.

Acts 9:12

And hath seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming in, and putting his hand on him, that he might receive his sight.

Acts 9:13

Then Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard by many of this man, how much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem:

Acts 9:14

And here he hath authority from the chief priests to bind all that call on thy name.

Acts 9:15

But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way: for he is a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel:

Acts 9:16

For I will shew him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake.

Here was a man named Ananias. He was another called by grace. The Lord said unto Ananias in a vision. Ananias said, "Behold, I am here, Lord." Ananias was ready to move for the Lord. If you're saved, you're called by grace to do a work in the fields.

Matthew 9:37

Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but the labourers are few;

Matthew 9:38

Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth labourers into his harvest.

In the world, the harvest is plentiful but the laborers are few. There are people out there who are dying around the clock and going to hell. Why? Because so many who are called by grace are holding back on the Lord. They are content and satisfied within themselves and their hearts. They fail to say, behold, I am here, Lord because they are not ready to go.

Acts 9:11

And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the street which is called Straight, and enquire in the house of Judas for one called Saul of Tarsus: for, behold he prayeth,

Acts 9:12

And hath seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming in, and putting his hand on him, that he might receive his sight.

Sometimes, when the Lord calls us to do a job, it isn't always a pleasant thing. It could be a rough way or a straight way. Or, it could be a holy way or a righteous way. No matter what, Jesus will be with you.

Acts 9:13

Then Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard by many of this man, how much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem:

Acts 9:14

And here he hath authority from the chief priests to bind all that call on thy name.

A lot of the time, it's not always a bed of roses. The Lord faces us with all kinds of situations and circumstances in this walk of life that are frightening. Even though our faith becomes weak, grace will see us through. Have you ever thought, no, Lord, I can't go? Send someone else. If the Lord knew you couldn't do the job, through him, he would have never asked you to go. Ananias was the man for the job and no one else. Are you the man for the job God has called you to do? You are called by grace to do a work for God by spreading the good news of Jesus Christ to a dark and dying world. How big or how little the job is not what's important. What's important is getting the work done which the Lord led you to do. Ananias said, "Behold, I am here, Lord."

Acts 9:15

But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way: for he is a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel:

Acts 9:16

For I will shew him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake.

Jesus needs workers in the fields. He needs those who are called by grace to share the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ to a dark and dying sin-sick world.

John 4:34

Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work.

John 4:35

Say not ye, There are yet four months, and then cometh harvest? behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields; for they are white already to harvest.

John 4:36

And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal: that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together.

John 4:37

And herein is that saying true, One soweth, and another reapeth.

John 4:38

I sent you to reap that whereon ye bestowed no labour: other men laboured, and ye are entered into their labours.

Are you satisfied, content, unconcerned and relaxed? You need to search it out. Remember, Saul thought he had it all together until the Lord met him on the road to Damascus. Jesus said, "He is a chosen vessel unto me." If you're saved, today, and born again unto the spirit of God, you are a chosen vessel unto God also. You are a child of the King of Kings.

John 15:14

Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you.

John 15:15

Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth; but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you.

John 15:16

Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you.

John 15:17

These things I command you, that ye love one another.

Jesus said, "I have chosen you to bring forth fruit," Jesus also said in...

Acts 9:16

For I will shew him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake.

We will suffer for the cause of Christ. Yet, though we suffer greatly in body, we will stand in victory and not in defeat in the spirit of the true and living God with our heart, mind and our eyes upon heaven with victory in Christ Jesus our everlasting and eternal life.

Acts 9:17

And Ananias went his way, and entered into the house; and putting his hands on him said, Brother Saul, the Lord, even Jesus, that appeared unto thee in the way as thou camest, hath sent me, that thou mightiest receive thy sight, and be filled with the Holy Ghost.

Ananias went his way to see Saul. Notice here, Ananias called him Brother Saul. Ananias put his hands on Saul that he mightiest receive thy sight and be filled with the Holy Ghost.

Acts 9:18

And immediately there fell from his eyes as it had been scales: and he received sight forthwith, and arose, and was baptized.

Acts 9:19

And when he had received meat, he was strengthened. Then was Saul certain days with the disciples which were at Damascus.

Because of the filling of the Holy Ghost, Saul's eyes were opened. Saul received the fullness of the blessing from the power of God. Notice, too, he received his physical strength.

Acts 9:20

And straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues, that he is the Son of God.

He preached Christ in the synagogues that he was the son of God. Saul was one of the thousands of God's people called by grace and looked in a different light through Christ Jesus our Lord. We all need to be of the work that Christ has done in our heart and life. We need to reach out into this dark and dying world and tell people of a better way and hope which is Christ. Are you, today, called by grace? Are you, today, looking in a different light?

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Acts 9:21

But all that heard him were amazed, and said; Is not this he that destroyed them which called on this name in Jerusalem, and came hither for that intent, that he might bring them bound unto the chief priests?

Acts 9:22

But Saul increased the more in strength, and confounded the Jews which dwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ.

Acts 9:23

And after that many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel to kill him:

Saul was a changed man; he had seen the light. Are you another Saul that bears Jesus, the true light of this world?

John 15:18

If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you.

John 15:19

If ye were of the world, the world would love his own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you.

John 15:20

Remember the word that I said unto you, The servant is not greater than his lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you; if they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also.

What does the world see in you? Can they see something special? Can they see that you have been called by grace unto a different light?

~~~~~

We may be living in a time of sorrow and the days ahead may be perilous. However, now more than ever, we need to be steadfast, unmovable and unshaken in the Lord than ever before. We need to be ready and prepared at any given moment for the change that lies ahead. It will be nothing like the world has ever seen before.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

Although, the sunset rests upon the breast of the earth and the day has soon passed, whether it be a good day or bad, there is joy in my heart and soul because the Lord has been with me and brought me through another day. As the last gleam of light from the day's sunset slowly disappears into the darkness, if it be the Lord's will, there will be a sunrise tomorrow. No matter what tomorrow shall bring, I know he will be with me again and he will bring me through; I will not be afraid. I praise the Lord for that glimmer of light from tomorrow's sunrise, (if he allows it to come), that I will once again walk with him.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Still Voice

Serenity is not Freedom from the Storm but Peace Amidst the Storm

Thought to Keep in Mind:

Mark 4:35

And the same day, when the even was come, he saith unto them, Let us pass over unto the other side.

Mark 4:36

And when they had sent away the multitude, they took him even as he was in the ship. And there were also with him other little ships.

Mark 4:37

And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that it was now full.

Mark 4:38

And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow: and they awake him, and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish?

Mark 4:39

And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm.

Mark 4:40

And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? how is it that ye have no faith?

Mark 4:41

And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, What manner of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?

And there arose a great storm of wind and the waves beat into the ship. Jesus was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep. And, they awake him saying, "Master, carest thou not that we perish?" And Jesus arose, rebuked the wind and said unto the sea, "Peace, be still." And the wind ceased and there was a great calm. Are the storms raging in your life? Are you being beaten, knocked around and tossed about by the waves from the troubles of this life? Is the sky dark and cloudy? Do you seem all alone with know where to turn? Jesus said, "Peace, be still." The winds ceased and there was a great calm.

Mark 4:41

And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, What manner of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?

Jesus can make all things right, if you believe. Serenity is not freedom from the storm but peace amidst the storm.

Scripture Reading – I Samuel 17 (Read Chapter First)

I Samuel 17:1

Now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle, and were gathered together at Shochoh, which belongeth to Judah, and pitched between Shochoh and Azekah, in Ephesdammim,

I Samuel 17:2

And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and pitched by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.

I Samuel 17:3

And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.

As Christians, today, when we are faced with troubles and hardships in our Christian walk of life, we need to stand back and see the salvation of the Lord in the midst of our battle. We need to stand and see through the eyes of Jesus and look at all the alternatives. We have to look at both sides, look to our highest high and our deepest low, pray unto a living God and put it all in his hands. We need to let him bring us through. In our hearts, we shall withstand whatever the outcome shall be.

Isaiah 40:28

Hast thou not known? hast thou not heard, that the everlasting God, the Lord, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary? there is no searching of his understanding.

Isaiah 40:29

He giveth power to the faint; and to them that have no might he increaseth strength.

Isaiah 40:30

Even the youths shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall:

Isaiah 40:31

But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.

Our God is a righteous and holy God; he is a just God. Through his son Jesus, we shall have peace. Serenity is not freedom from the storm but peace amidst the storm.

I Samuel 4:7

And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing heretofore.

No matter what you may be facing or how big or how strong the problem may be, face it with Jesus. No matter how dressed up it may be with all the problems that go along with it, face your fears with Jesus. Stand on the faith of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Let Jesus walk in the midst of the fire with you. Let him lead you with love. Trust him; he shall bring you through and you shall be harmed no more.

Isaiah 43:1

But now thus saith the Lord that created thee, O Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel, Fear not: for I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy name; thou art mine.

Isaiah 43:2

When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee: when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned; neither shall the flame kindle upon thee.

Isaiah 43:3

For I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour: I gave Egypt for thy ransom, Ethiopia and Seba for thee.

Walk the walk of faith. Believe in God, his word and his son. Walk in victory over defeat.

Isaiah 41:10

Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness.

Isaiah 41:11

Behold, all they that were incensed against thee shall be ashamed and confounded: they shall be as nothing; and they that strive with thee shall perish.

Isaiah 41:12

Thou shalt seek them, and shalt not find them, even them that contended with thee: they that war against thee shall be as nothing, and as a thing of nought.

Isaiah 41:13

For I the Lord thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not; I will help thee.

Let him lead you into victory through his everlasting power and strength.

Luke 18:27

And he said, The things which are impossible with men are possible with God.

Let Jesus turn your impossibility into victory through him, today.

Philippians 4:13

I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me.

For greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world.

I Samuel 17:8

And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am not I a Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? choose you a man for you, and let him come down to me.

I Samuel 17:9

If he be able to fight with me, and to kill me, then will we be your servants: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.

I Samuel 17:10

And the Philistine said, I defy the armies of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may fight together.

I Samuel 17:11

When Saul and all Israel heard those words of the Philistine, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.

You will face a lot of Goliaths in your Christian walk of life; the Goliaths where you as a Christian will have to stand bold with your God, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. The God of Israel stood against the enemy in victory and not defeat. Goliath said, "Choose you a man for you and let him come down to me." Christians, are you going to let the devil, the Goliath in your life, defeat you? Or, are you going to stand and fight the fight of faith? Are you going to stand your ground and not be moved? Stand upon the rock of ages.

I Samuel 17:11

When Saul and all Israel heard those words of the Philistine, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.

Sometimes, Christians, it is a fearful thing to stand on faith when it seems that all odds are against you. But, David was a small lad, a shepherd armed with a slingshot and five smooth stones. You have Jesus Christ the son of God, God the Father and the power of the Holy Ghost of God to stand for you. Saul and Israel were dismayed and greatly afraid. Are you ready for battle? Serenity is not freedom from the storm but peace amidst the storm. In the Bible, the three eldest sons of Jesse went and followed Saul to the battle. Jesse told David to take some corn and ten loaves and run to the camp of thy brethren.

I Samuel 17:20

And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the trench, as the host was going forth to the fight, and shouted for the battle.

David rose early in the morning. We, as Christians, need to be ready and prepared, each day, to fight the battle. To fight the fight of faith, we always have to be rested, early and ready to go in our daily walk with God. Be prepared to face each day with the Lord. David came to salute his brethren and as he talked with them there came up the champion, Goliath.

I Samuel 17:24

And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.

I Samuel 17:25

And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come up? surely to defy Israel is he come up: and it shall be, that the man who killeth him, the king will enrich him with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.

I Samuel 17:26

And David spake to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God?

I Samuel 17:27

And the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him.

David saith, "For who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God?" Christians, have you ever been faced with circumstances that you can't see any way around them? Have you ever had to make decisions and not really, at the time, see the outcome? David quickly recognized the problem and he knew what he had to do. He knew he had to face it with the Lord and stand bold for God. God is a deliverer.

I Samuel 17:28

And Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spake unto the men; and Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why camest thou down hither? and with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride, and the naughtiness of thine heart; for thou art come down that thou mightiest see the battle.

I Samuel 17:29

And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause?

David said, "Is there not a cause?" Christians, look back from where God has brought you, how you used to be and how you used to do things. God has brought you out of the hog pens of sin and death into eternal life. Is there not a cause?

I Samuel 17:32

And David said to Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him; thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine.

I Samuel 17:33

And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him: for thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth.

I Samuel 17:34

And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there a came a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock:

I Samuel 17:35

And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth: and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.

I Samuel 17:36

Thy servant slew both the lion and the bear: and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the armies of the living God.

Christians, look back at all the storms, troubles, sorrows, hardships and trying times in your past Christian life. Has God been there for you? Has God seen you through? Has God made a way for you? If so, is there not a cause to keep the faith, to keep on pushing forward, to keep on trying and to keep on keeping on for God? Bear your cross for Christ.

II Timothy 4:7

I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith:

II Timothy 4:8

Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day: and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing.

Christians, when you lay down your cross, you lay down your crown.

I Samuel 17:37

David said moreover, The Lord that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go, and the Lord be with thee.

I Samuel 17:38

And Saul armed David with his armour, and he put an helmet of brass upon his head; also he armed him with a coat of mail.

I Samuel 17:39

And David girded his sword upon his armour, and he assayed to go; for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I cannot go with these; for I have not proved them. And David put them off him.

Christians, pray and seek God's will in your heart and life; that is all that matters. Don't go by what someone else says or does, let the Lord lead you. Walk close to God each day so you can know his will. Let the Lord armor you with the whole armour of God. Pray and stand upon God's words and he will see you through. David said unto Saul, "I cannot go with these; for I have not proved them." Search out all things by and through the holy spirit of God. When God is ready, you need to be ready.

I Samuel 17:40

And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd's bag which he had, even in a scrip; and his sling was in his hand: and he drew near to the Philistine.

I Samuel 17:41

And the Philistine came on and drew near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him.

I Samuel 17:42

And when the Philistine looked about, and saw David, he disdained him: for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and of a fair countenance.

I Samuel 17:43

And the Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods.

I Samuel 17:44

And the Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give thy flesh unto the fowls of the air, and to the beasts of the field.

I Samuel 17:45

Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied.

I Samuel 17:46

This day will the Lord deliver thee into mine hand; and I will smite thee, and take thine head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the host of the Philistines this day unto the fowls of the air, and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.

I Samuel 17:47

And all this assembly shall know that the Lord saveth not with sword and spear: for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands.

David took his staff in his hand and choose five smooth stones out of the brook. A lot of times, Christians, our Goliaths, problems and troubles in our life, are not as big as they sometimes appear when we have God on our side. David took five smooth stones to face Goliath but used only one stone to bring victory to God and his people. Sometimes, Christians, how we handle the problem will make a big difference. David used one small, smooth stone with God on his side. Sometimes, problems work themselves out through prayer and patience. Sometimes one must set out and do something about it. David was a man of God who faced his problem and the problem of Israel and God delivered. God is no respecter person to you, today. Is there not a cause? Have we the faith and trust in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ the Son of the true and living God to stand, today, in victory?

I Samuel 17:48

And it came to pass, when the Philistine arose, and came and drew nigh to meet David, that David hasted, and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine.

I Samuel 17:49

And David put his hand in his bag, and took thence a stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead, that the stone sunk into his forehead; and he fell upon his face to the earth.

I Samuel 17:50

So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.

I Samuel 17:51

Therefore David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his sword and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw their champion was dead, they fled.

David walked with God. He fought the battle and stood for God with peace in his heart and mind. Serenity is not freedom from the storm but peace amidst the storm. David, I believe, walked in the perfect will of God with his love, faith and trust totally and completely in his God and what his God could do. And, his God did exactly what he thought he would do; David's God delivered.

I Samuel 17:51

Therefore David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his sword and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw their champion was dead, they fled.

Can you, Christians, stand on the top of your problems and troubles in victory with Jesus Christ your Lord and lift the voice of praise to the most-high God, the living God of Israel? Is there not a cause?

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Mark 4:35

And the same day, when the even was come, he saith unto them, Let us pass over unto the other side.

Mark 4:36

And when they had sent away the multitude, they took him even as he was in the ship. And there were also with him other little ships.

Mark 4:37

And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that it was now full.

Mark 4:38

And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow: and they awake him, and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish?

Mark 4:39

And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm.

Mark 4:40

And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? how is it that ye have no faith?

Mark 4:41

And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, What manner of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?

Jesus rebuked the wind and it ceased. He said to the sea, "Peace, be still." And, there was a great calm. There is no problem, no trouble, no sorrow or storm Jesus cannot calm and bring peace.

Mark 4:40

And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? how is it that ye have no faith?

~~~~~

Life's burdens weigh us down, at times, troubles see to be upon every hand and trials come our way. We have to focus on the light, not the darkness, of the storm. The light through Christ Jesus shall not only carry us through but it will also deliver us upon peaceful shores. Walk therefore in the light for Jesus is the true light of peace and victory. But, you must believe and not doubt.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

Let us be steadfast and unmovable of the things of this world that so easily besets us, the things that try to pull us down and try to catch us off guard. Be bold in the Lord, in his word and in his holy spirit. Through him, we can break the chains of bondage and fear along with doubt and worry. Be ye moved by his power and might. We have to be delivered and set free from the troubled storms of this life by what Christ Jesus has already done for us. Be at liberty and at peace in him and him alone.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Still Voice

The Eye of the Storm

Thought to Keep in Mind:

When the storms are raging in your life and you seem like you can't go any further, keep your eyes on the eye of the storm; keep your eyes on Jesus. They say that in a hurricane, when it is raging, the eye (the center) of the storm is calm and peaceful. That is the same way it is when the devil is the raging storm in our life.

I Peter 5:8

Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour:

Keep Jesus in the center of the storms in your life. Keep him in the eye of the storm and he will see you through. Why? Because, he loves you.

John 14:27

Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.

Scripture Reading – Matthew 14:22-33

And straightway Jesus constrained his disciples to get into a ship and to go before him unto the other side, while he sent the multitudes away. The Bible says that Jesus went up into the mountains apart to pray and when evening was come he was alone. Notice here, Jesus volunteered to take out time himself to set himself apart from anything and everything that was around him to be alone with God. We, as Christians, need to be alone with Jesus. We need to take out time to be alone with God. We need to pray, be ready and prepared to fight the battle each day in our walk of life. Notice here, Jesus set an example for us to be ready at all times. We need to be prepared, prayed up and walk close with God so we can be ready to stand for God.

Ephesians 6:10

Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might.

Ephesians 6:11

Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.

Ephesians 6:12

For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.

We are fighting a spiritual warfare not of flesh and blood. To be able to stand, we need to put on the whole armor of God.

Ephesians 6:13

Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.

When the evening had come, Jesus was alone. Are you spending time alone with God?

Matthew 14:23

And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray: and when the evening was come, he was there alone.

Matthew 14:24

But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves: for the wind was contrary.

The ship was in the midst of the sea and the water was troubled. How are things in your life? Do you feel like you are out in the middle of the sea with the storm raging and the Lord seems to be far away? The disciples went ahead of Jesus in the ship while Jesus was up in the mountain praying. They were being tossed by the waves for the wind was contrary. How many times, Christians, have we gone ahead of Jesus and left him behind when we were dealing with things in our lives? When we try to go on our own or try to go before God, the devil is out there waiting for us. That is why we need to be prepared at all times.

Ephesians 6:14

Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness;

Ephesians 6:15

And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace;

Ephesians 6:16

Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.

Ephesians 6:17

And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God:

Ephesians 6:18

Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perserverance and supplication for all saints;

Jesus knows our problems and our troubles. Notice, as soon as the trouble began, when that old ship began to be tossed, Jesus came.

Matthew 14:25

And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them, walking on the sea.

Jesus came at the time of need. He wasn't a day late or a day early. Notice, Jesus was walking on the water. He wasn't swimming, wading or floating; he was in complete control of the problem. Why was Jesus in control? He had set out time to be alone with the Father. Christians, we need to do the same thing. There are times when we need to be alone with Jesus. When we do, the devil will not toss us around as much because we will have better control over our lives through Jesus our Lord. By being alone with the Lord, in our everyday life, we can walk on top of the troubles in our life if we have our faith and trust in Jesus Christ the son of God who will see us through.

Philippians 4:13

I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me.

Walk with the fullness of God in your life through Jesus Christ your Lord.

Matthew 14:26

And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a spirit; and they cried out for fear.

Matthew 14:27

But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid.

When Jesus came walking on the sea, the disciples were afraid; and they cried out with fear. Notice, the condition of the disciples. The devil had already raged so much in the storm that they were in fear.

II Timothy 1:7

For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.

God has not given us the spirit of fear. Already, the devil had cheated the disciples out of the blessing of Jesus walking on the water coming to help them. The disciples had their eyes on the wind, the water and the boat being tossed around. They were looking at their problem and not the solution which was Jesus Christ the son of the living God. The devil had already put fear and doubt in their lives. They took their eyes off the center of the storm, Jesus! The peace was in Jesus. The only peace in this world is in Jesus. Jesus said, "Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid." Jesus was telling the disciples to not be afraid. Fear is the opposite of faith. Jesus was telling them to have faith and believe for it was him. If you get Jesus in your heart and life, you are already victorious through him. Then, why should you be afraid?

Matthew 14:28

And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water.

Peter said, "Lord, if it be thou, bid me to come." Face your fears with Jesus and keep your eyes on the eye of the storm (Jesus). Peter stepped off the boat and into the water. He faced fear with his eyes on Jesus. What about you, Christians? Can you step off the boat in your life with Jesus and walk on water? Walk on top of your problems and troubles. Cast them under your feet and behind you. Walk by faith in perfect love with your Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

I John 4:18

There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear: because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love.

Peter had control of the problem. His eyes were on Jesus. He walked in perfect love and obedience. His trust and faith was complete in the Lord Jesus Christ.

Matthew 14:29

And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water, to go to Jesus.

Jesus said, "Come." Peter came down out of the ship and walked on the water. Where was he going? He was going to Jesus. Having Jesus before him, instead of behind him, he walked in perfect love. There was no fear, no doubt or unbelief as he walked toward Jesus in the fullness of God. That is how we should walk each and every day of our Christian life. We can if we will spend time alone with God. When the storm rages in our life, we have to keep our eyes on the eye of the storm where there is peace in Jesus Christ the son of the living God.

Matthew 14:30

But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me.

But, when Peter saw the wind boisterous, he took his eyes off Jesus for just a second and the devil was there. Fear entered in and his faith began to fail. He cried out, "Lord, save me."

Psalm 50:15

And call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.

Peter is like all of us. It is so easy to look at our problems or circumstances and take our eyes off Jesus. We are all guilty. But, notice who Peter turned to; he turned to Jesus. He didn't call for the other disciples to help him. He called on the one he knew could deliver him. The fear had entered in but Peter still had a little faith. He called on Jesus to save him.

Psalm 34:4

I sought the Lord, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears.

Peter sought the Lord. The Lord heard his cry and delivered him.

Matthew 14:31

And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand, and caught him, and said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?

Immediately, Jesus stretched forth his hand. Peter first called on the Lord when he became afraid and began to sink. This was the condition he was in. Immediately, Jesus caught him and said, "O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?" Have you ever been there? Sometimes, you may be sinking in some storms in your life but all you have to do is call upon Jesus. When you do, he will stretch forth his hand to you.

Matthew 14:32

And when they were come into the ship, the wind ceased.

Let Jesus be in the midst of the storms in your life. The more you love and trust Jesus, the sooner the storm will pass and clear up. When you have Jesus completely in your life and the storms begin to rage, you can surrender all unto him and peace will reign in your life.

Matthew 14:33

Then they that were in the ship came and worshipped him, saying, Of a truth thou art the Son of God.

When you have been victorious, through Jesus, with things in your life, you need to worship him and praise him. Regardless if you are walking through a long, dark valley or standing on top of the mountain, he is the son of the living God who died for our sins, the sins of the world. O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt? Jesus said, "Come." Have you the faith, today, to walk on the water with perfect love? If not, you may need to set yourself apart from everything and spend some alone time with Jesus and God to pray. Are the storms raging in your life?

John 14:1

Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me.

John 14:2

In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.

John 14:3

And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.

John 14:4

And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know.

John 14:5

Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the way?

John 14:6

Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.

Jesus is coming back. Keep your eyes on the eye of the storm. Keep your eyes upon the second coming of Christ and on the heavenly vision, Jesus Christ the son of the Almighty God. You notice here, the only peace within the midst of the storm was in Jesus. That is where you need to keep your eyes.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT – Acts 27

Acts 27:44

And the rest, some on boards, and some on broken pieces of the ship. And so it came to pass, that they escaped all safe to land.

Does your life consist of broken boards and broken pieces? If you are lost, Jesus can put your life back together. He can make it better than it ever has been if you will accept him on his terms and what he can do for you. Christians, are the broken pieces in your life floating away upon the water of life? If it seems like you are going in several directions and you can't seem to travel the right road, give it all to Jesus and let him mend the broken pieces and make all things right. Give your heart to Jesus and put all your trust in him.

Psalm 37:1

Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity.

Psalm 37:2

For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb.

Psalm 37:3

Trust in the Lord, and do good; so shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed.

Psalm 37:4

Delight thyself also in the Lord; and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart.

Psalm 37:5

Commit thy way unto the Lord; trust also in him; and he shall bring it to pass.

Psalm 37:6

And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday.

~~~~~

Sometimes, we allow the devil to rattle our cage, upset us and try to tear us down. We, so many times, take our eyes off the Lord, let our guard down and our faith falls weak. When we are drowning in our troubles, it so easily besets us and all around us seems so hopeless. But, when we lay it all behind us, look up to Jesus our Lord and focus on him and his word, we find true peace in our heart and mind. Let his peace be in you as it is in him.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

When trouble surrounds us and all looks dark and dreary, be not afraid or fear not. When things seem so hopeless and we are torn apart by life's storms, be not afraid or fear not. For, the God we are serving is a true and living God to his children. He will part the storms and reveal his light to us. Although we may see no light right now, we have to look up with faith, through our heart, and believe the light will be there at the parting of the storm.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Still Voice

There's Life after Repentance

Thought to Keep in Mind:

Matthew 4:17

From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say, Repent: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.

From the time Jesus began to preach, he preached repentance. If you are lost and undone before the face of the living God, you need to repent of your sins and accept Jesus Christ the Son of God and the finished work at Calvary in your heart and life and make all things right with God. Jesus said, "Repent: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." Will you come humble as a child, drawn by the Holy Spirit of God unto repentance, repent of your sins and turn from your ungodly ways? I am talking about making a complete change in your heart, mind and life. Make a complete turnaround and be born again unto the spirit of the true and living God. If you are backsliding on God or not where you need to be because of sin in your life, repent and be cleansed so you can be made whole and be set free by the blood of Jesus Christ. Repent of your sins, ungodly ways and unrighteous ways. Give your heart to Jesus and return to God.

John 3:16

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

John 3:17

For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.

I want to say, today, there is life after repentance. Will you come? Will you repent? Will you live again in the shed blood of Calvary? Jesus said, "Ye must repent."

II Samuel 11:2

And it came to pass in an eveningtide, that David arose from off his bed, and walked upon the roof of the king's house: and from the roof he saw a woman washing herself; and the woman was very beautiful to look upon.

II Samuel 11:3

And David sent and enquired after the woman. And one said, Is not this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite?

II Samuel 11:4

And David sent messengers, and took her; and she came in unto him, and he lay with her; for she was purified from her uncleanness: and she returned unto her house.

II Samuel 11:5

And the woman conceived, and sent and told David, and said, I am with child.

We find here, it came to pass in an evening tide that David arose from his bed and walked upon the roof where he saw Bathsheba taking a bath. He sent for her and he lay with her; and she conceived a child.

James 1:13

Let not man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God: for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man:

James 1:14

But every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed.

James 1:15

Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin: and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death.

The Bible tells us that every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. When lust hath conceived, it brings forth sin and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. David arose from his bed and walked out onto the roof of the king's house. It all began with one wrong look. How is it with you, today? How many so-called innocent looks have you taken that went beyond the mind to the heart?

Matthew 5:27

Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not commit adultery:

Matthew 5:28

But I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart.

Matthew 5:29

And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell.

Matthew 5:30

And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off, and cast it from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell.

You know the story of David. He sent Uriah, Bathsheba's husband, upon the front lines and he was killed. Then, David took Bathsheba for his wife. In Psalm 51, David said a prayer of repentance when Nathan, the prophet, came unto him after he had gone into Bathsheba.

Psalm 51:1

Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy lovingkindness: according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgressions.

David prayed, "Have mercy upon me, O God. Blot out my transgressions." First, you must come to the realization of just how you stand before the eyes of God. Not how you stand in your eyes or someone else's eyes but the eyes of God. David said, "Have mercy upon me, O God."

Isaiah 55:6

Seek ye the Lord while he may be found, call ye upon him while he is near:

Isaiah 55:7

Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.

Are your sins forgiven? Are they under the blood of Jesus Christ? Are you ready to die and stand before the judgment? Isaiah said, "Seek ye the Lord while he may be found." David said, "Have mercy upon me, O God. Blot out my transgressions." Isaiah said, "Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy and abundantly pardoned." Will you, today, repent and come back to God or will you turn him away? There is life after repentance. However, you must first seek the Lord.

Psalm 51:2

Wash me throughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.

David prayed, "Wash me and cleanse me from my sins." David knew in his heart that he stood dirty, nasty and unclean before a holy and righteous God. He knew he smelled of sin. He prayed, "Wash me and cleanse me." I wonder, if we look at our life through the eyes of God, how clean and holy would he see us. It is a clean and holy walk with God each and every day. It is a righteous way of humble and sincere obedience in God. It is a straight way and a narrow way of repentance. It is a way of a true, devoted love and obedience in Christ.

I Thessalonians 4:7

For God hath not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness.

How is your walk with Jesus? Is it what it should be or could it be better?

Psalm 51:3

For I acknowledge my transgressions: and my sin is ever before me.

David said, "For I acknowledge my transgressions." David laid the cards on the table before God. He opened up his heart and poured out his heart to him. He didn't hold anything back. David had a heart to heart talk with God. Maybe, today, you need to have a heart to heart talk with Jesus. Maybe, today, you need to lay it all down at the foot of the cross. When was the last time that you really talked to Jesus? When was the last time that you straightened that which was crooked and lowered that which was high? I am talking about being honest with Jesus and yourself.

James 5:16

Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be healed. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much.

There is life after repentance, an abundant life in Christ. But, in his eyes, we must walk a righteous way. Is there anything left undone? Is there anything you are hiding that you might need to talk to Jesus about?

Ecclesiastes 12:13

Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God, and keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man.

Ecclesiastes 12:14

For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil.

When we die and stand before the judgment, it will be too late to repent.

I Timothy 5:24

Some men's sins are open beforehand, going before to judgment; and some men they follow after.

Right now, how would you stand before Christ? Today is the day of salvation. Today is the day to repent and make things right with God because there is no promise there will ever be a tomorrow. David said, "I acknowledge my transgressions and my sin is ever before me."

II Peter 2:21

For it had been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than, after they have known it, to turn from the holy commandment delivered unto them.

Search your heart and seek Jesus. If things are not where they need to be, I pray you will make all things right. Are you sick of your life and how it has been? Do you feel like you have gone the last step of the way? Do you remember the joy, peace and love in your heart when you walked with Jesus? You can have it again if you'll call upon him and cast your care upon him. Open up your heart and tell Jesus how it is and how you feel.

II Peter 3:13

Nevertheless we, according to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness.

II Peter 3:14

Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, be diligent that ye may be found of him in peace, without spot, and blameless.

Let me ask, are you without spot? Are you washed whiter than snow? If you are not, you can be. Pray and talk to Jesus; he will make you whole.

Psalm 51:7

Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.

David cried out unto the Lord, "Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me and I shall be whiter than snow."

Romans 6:23

For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Which way will you choose, today? Will you choose death or will you repent and turn back to God unto eternal life? It is your choice. You must choose; no one can do it for you. David made the choice to live. He repented of his sins and made all things right with God.

I John 1:6

If we say that we have fellowship with him, and walk in darkness, we lie, and do not the truth:

I John 1:7

But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin.

I John 1:8

If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.

I John 1:9

If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.

I John 1:10

If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.

There is life after repentance.

Psalm 51:10

Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me.

David said, "Create in me a clean heart." Let me ask you, how is your heart? Is it where it needs to be?

Matthew 6:22

The light of the body is the eye: if therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light.

Matthew 6:23

But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness!

Jesus said, "The light of the body is the eye." Remember, David's problem started with one wrong look. He looked upon Bathsheba taking a bath.

Matthew 6:23

But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness!

Jesus said, "If thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness." I believe David was a man in darkness, a man away from God. But, he was a man who repented and came back. Although David paid for his sins, he repented and he lived on and, still to this day, lives in the presence of God. Is your heart full of light or is it in darkness? Will you let Jesus cleanse you and set you free? Will you let Jesus restore you upon the rock of ages? Will you let him deliver you out of the bondage of sin, darkness and death? Let him create a clean heart and renew a right spirit within you.

Matthew 5:8

Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.

If we are going to really see God, it will be with a pure heart and not one full of darkness. David said, "Renew a right spirit within me." David knew how he stood with God and you know, today, how you stand. David knew what was wrong and he knew what he had to do. He knew he had to repent unto God. He did and he lived.

Psalm 51:11

Cast me not away from thy presence; and take not thy holy spirit from me.

Psalm 51:12

Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation; and uphold me with thy free spirit.

Cast me not away from thy presence; and take not thy holy spirit from me. How far will you go? How long will God have to wait? How many times will he have to knock? How close will it be? There is life after repentance. The repentance I am talking about is through the way of the old rugged cross and through the cleansing blood of Jesus Christ. The life I am talking about is eternal life through the virgin birth, death, burial and resurrection of Jesus Christ the son of Almighty God. Jesus said, "Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." David said, "Cast me not away from thy presence; and take not thy holy spirit from me." How is your walk with the Lord?

Psalm 51:12

Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation; and uphold me with thy free spirit.

How is your joy and peace, today? Is it what it needs to be? Do you still have peace of mind? When you lay down at night, are you afraid to go to sleep? If you have lost the joy of your salvation, I pray you will repent, talk to Jesus and live again in his victory.

II Peter 2:21

For it had been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than, after they have known it, to turn from the holy commandment delivered unto them.

II Peter 2:22

But it is happened unto them according to the true proverb, The dog is turned to his own vomit again; and the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire.

It is up to you. It is your choice, your destiny. There is life after repentance. Will you come, today, as David did and live again?

FOOD FOR THOUGHT – II Samuel 12

Nathan the prophet came unto David. Yet, David lost his child. David suffered a great price for his sins. He could never undo what he had done. He could never change the things he did. But, David repented unto God and he lives on eternally. We will suffer the price of our sins. Some things can never be undone and some things can never be changed. However, we can do one thing and that is repent unto God. We can make all things right by putting all our sins under the blood of Christ, pick up the cross and push on for the gift of eternal life.

II Corinthians 7:10

For godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation not to be repented of: but the sorrow of the world worketh death.

~~~~~

In the quiet of the moment, I stood on the edge of the mountain top. I lifted up my hands, opened my heart and praised the true and living God. For, I had traveled through a long, dark valley for many days so the Lord could help me overcome and deliver me upon the peak of the highest hill. My heart and soul sung out in victory over the valley of defeat. For, my Lord had brought me through. My heart, my voice and my soul sung out praises unto the almighty and living God and drove out the darkness of the valley below. There is victory in Jesus. There is power in his blood and words. In that quiet moment, I gave him all my heart, mind and soul from the praises of my heart and soul.

Bobby A. Troutt

~~~~~

I looked up at the sky and saw only the clouds in the bright blue heaven. My faith at the time was weak and my hope was, too. My heart cried out unto the Lord. As tears filled my eyes, I knew that he was with me and he would bring me through. I have a few weak moments from time to time and a small doubt can hinder and make me uneasy. But, when I looked up, a gentle breeze blew by, dried my tears and filled my heart as to say, my child, I am still with you.

Bobby A. Troutt

*****

Still Voice

Thorns and Roses

Thought to Keep in Mind:

Matthew 26:36

Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane, and saith unto the disciples, Sit ye here, while I go and pray yonder.

Matthew 26:37

And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy.

Matthew 26:38

Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death: tarry ye here, and watch with me.

Matthew 26:39

And he went a little farther, and fell on his face, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt.

Matthew 26:40

And he cometh unto the disciples, and findeth them asleep, and saith unto Peter, What, could ye not watch with me one hour?

Matthew 26:41

Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.

Matthew 26:42

He went away again the second time, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if this cup may not pass away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done.

Matthew 26:43

And he came and found them asleep again: for their eyes were heavy.

Matthew 26:44

And he left them, and went away again, and prayed the third time, saying the same words.

Matthew 26:45

Then cometh he to his disciples, and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest: behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.

Matthew 26:46

Rise, let us be going: behold, he is at hand that doth betray me.

Jesus prayed three times to the Father, "If it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt." The walk with God is not a bed of roses. But, it is a walk we can walk with him. It is a trying way, a suffering way and a holy, clean and righteous way. It is a daily walk of bearing our cross for Christ. He bears his for us. It is a way of thorns and roses.

Scripture Reading – Job Chapters 1 and 2

Job 1:1

There was a man in the land of Uz, whose name was Job; and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God, and eschewed evil.

Job 1:2

And there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters.

Job 1:3

His substance also was seven thousand sheep, and three thousand camels, and five hundred yoke of oxen, and five hundred she asses, and a very great household; so that this man was the greatest of all the men of the east.

Job 1:4

And his sons went and feasted in their houses, every one his day; and sent and called for their three sisters to eat and to drink with them.

Job 1:5

And it was so, when the days of their feasting were gone about, that Job sent and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning, and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all: for Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned, and cursed God in their hearts. Thus did Job continually.

In the Bible, there was a man named Job. He was a perfect and upright man who feared God and eschewed evil. Job rose up early in the morning and offered burnt offerings. Job said, "It may be that my sons have sinned, and cursed God in their hearts." Thus did Job continually.

John 3:16

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

John 3:17

For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.

God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son to come and die for the sins of the world, your sins and mine, that we may receive the gift of eternal life. God had sent the only perfect sacrifice for sin, Jesus Christ.

Romans 5:8

But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.

Romans 5:9

Much more then, being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him.

If you are a child of the king, today, you can walk in victory with your Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. But, the way of the Lord is a way of thorns and roses. There are mountain tops along the way with peace, rest and rejoicing. And, there will be dark valleys in your Christian walk with God. Remember, Jesus will be with you and he will never leave or forsake you. We must stand on the promise of God. It will not be a bed of roses for you and it wasn't for Jesus.

Job 1:6

Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan came also among them.

Job 1:7

And the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the Lord, and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it.

Job 1:8

And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God, and escheweth evil?

The Lord said unto Satan, "Whence comest thou?" Satan answered the Lord and said, "From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it."

I Peter 5:8

Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour:

The devil is out there to kill and destroy you. He wants you in hell with him. The walk with God is a straight and narrow way. It is a humble and sincere way. It is a way of repentance. You have to walk with faith, trust and full obedience in God. You can't play church and play games with God. You must completely surrender all things to God.

James 4:8

Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners; and purify your hearts, ye double minded.

Come out from among the sin and filth of the world; be ye a separate people. The devil is a liar and the truth is not in him. He is a deceiver and an angel of light. Stay close to God through his son, Jesus. God has called you so walk worthy and don't let your guard down because Satan is out there to destroy you. The Lord said unto Satan, "Hast thou considered my servant Job."

Job 1:9

Then Satan answered the Lord, and said, Doth Job fear God for nought?

Job 1:10

Hast not thou made an hedge about him, and about his house, and about all that he hath on every side? thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land.

Job 1:11

But put forth thine hand now, and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face.

Job 1:12

And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power; only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord.

Satan answered the Lord and said, "Doth Job fear God for nought?" What about you? Could the Lord say unto Satan, today, have you considered my servant so and so?

I Peter 1:7

That the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honour and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ:

We, as Christians bearing the cross and testimony of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, will have our faith tried with fire. During the fire, the impurity in our life shall be burned out. In the end, those who endure shall come forth as pure gold unto the praise, honor and glory of the appearance of Jesus Christ. We will suffer trying times, hardships and defeats. Yet, if we stay on our knees and pray, we can walk out of our mistakes and failures even stronger in the Lord than ever before. We will be put to the test. Our faith, love, patience and obedience shall be tested to the utmost degree with longsuffering and persecution upon every hand. All this and even more will be proved by the utmost perfection of the second coming of Jesus Christ. It is a way of thorns and roses. Praise God from the mountain tops and the deep valleys; that is where we will find strength through our Lord Jesus Christ. Job was a great man of faith. But, yet, he suffered the thorns of the devil and in the end the roses from God.

Job 1:13

And there was a day when his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house:

Job 1:14

And there came a messenger unto Job, and said, The oxen were plowing, and the asses feeding beside them:

Job 1:15

And the Sabeans fell upon them, and took them away; yea, they have slain the servants with the edge of the sword; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.

Job 1:16

While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, The fire of God is fallen from heaven, and hath burned up the sheep, and the servants, and consumed them; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.

Job 1:17

While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, The Chaldeans made out three bands, and fell upon the camels, and have carried them away, yea, and slain the servants with the edge of the sword; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.

Job 1:18

While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, Thy sons and thy daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house:

Job 1:19

And, behold, there came a great wind from the wilderness, and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young men, and they are dead; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.

So, Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord.

John 16:33

These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.

Jesus said, "In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world." We, as Christians, today, can overcome all things by and through the Lord Jesus Christ. Job was a man of patience.

Romans 5:1

Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ:

Romans 5:2

By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God.

Romans 5:3

And not only so, but we glory in tribulations also: knowing that tribulation worketh patience;

Romans 5:4

And patience, experience; and experience, hope:

Romans 5:5

And hope maketh not ashamed; because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto us.

We, as Christians, need to glory in tribulations and know that tribulation worketh patience in our walk with God.

Romans 8:35

Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?

Romans 8:36

As it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day long; we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter.

Romans 8:37

Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us.

Romans 8:38

For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,

Romans 8:39

Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.

Who shall separate us from the love of Christ?

Job 1:20

Then Job arose, and rent his mantle, and shaved his head, and fell down upon the ground, and worshipped,

Job 1:21

And said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither: the Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord.

Job 1:22

In all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly.

As Christians, today, if we are to stand against the devil and the sins of this world, we need to stand upon the rock of ages which is Jesus Christ our Lord and Savior. We have to stand and not be moved or shaken.

Ephesians 6:10

Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might.

Ephesians 6:11

Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.

Ephesians 6:12

For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.

Ephesians 6:13

Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.

Ephesians 6:14

Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness;

Ephesians 6:15

And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace;

Ephesians 6:16

Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.

Ephesians 6:17

And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God:

Ephesians 6:18

Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints;

Christians, it is a spiritual warfare out there. It is a way of thorns and roses. We need to put on the whole armour of God to stand against the wiles of devil. We need to have our loins girted with the truth, a breastplate of righteousness, our feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, a shield of faith and a helmet of salvation. Then, we shall stand and overcome it all by and through the Lord Jesus Christ. Christians, today, we have to be prepared and ready to fight the fight for the cause of Christ.

Job 2:1

Again there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan came also among them to present himself before the Lord.

And again, a second time, the devil went to and fro in the earth and from walking up and down it. And the Lord said unto Satan, "Hast thou considered my servant Job?"

James 1:2

My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into divers temptations;

James 1:3

Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience.

James 1:4

But let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing.

Blessed be the patience of Job, an example for all God's people.

James 1:12

Blessed is the man that endureth temptation: for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him.

James 1:13

Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God: for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man:

James 1:14

But every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed.

James 1:15

Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin: and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death.

Beware of the thorns of life, the thorns of the devil and the snares of his tricks. Satan is out there for one reason and one reason only. He is out to destroy you and send you to hell with him.

Job 2:4

And Satan answered the Lord, and said, Skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath will he give for his life.

Job 2:5

But put forth thine hand now, and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse thee to thy face.

Job 2:6

And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, he is in thine hand; but save his life.

Job was a great man of God who had gone through and endured a great test for God. Job received the thorns but in the end, he received the rose from God.

Matthew 16:24

Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.

Matthew 16:25

For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it.

Matthew 16:26

For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?

If we gain the whole world and die without Jesus in our heart and life, we have lost it all. It would have been better if we had never been born than to die lost in sin and away from God. The Lord said unto Satan, "Behold, he is in thine hand; but save his life."

Job 2:7

So went Satan forth from the presence of the Lord, and smote Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot unto his crown.

Job 2:8

And he took him a potsherd to scrape himself withal; and he sat down among the ashes.

We, as Christians in this world, will suffer sicknesses, diseases and physical infirmities but we still need to be of good cheer because the devil can bring sickness but he can't take our life. Job was with sore boils from the sole of his foot unto the crown of his head. However, God saw him through and he will see us through if we have the faith and patience of his great servant Job.

Job 2:9

Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? curse God, and die.

Job 2:10

But he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women speaketh. What? shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? In all this did not Job sin with his lips.

Job was put to the test.

Job 23:10

But he knoweth the way that I take: when he hath tried men, I shall come forth as gold.

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

Job 42:12

So the Lord blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning; for he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she asses.

Job 42:13

He had also seven sons and three daughters.

Job 42:16

After this lived Job an hundred and forty years, and saw his sons, and his sons' sons, even four generations.

Job 42:17

So Job died, being old and full of days.

Life is full of thorns and roses. It is not an easy way with the Lord but we can make it with him; we can't do it on our own. Job was a man who witnessed and experienced the thorns of life, the thorns of the devil. But, in the end, he kept the faith and patience in longsuffering for God. In return, God took away the thorns and blessed him with the roses in the end. KEEP THE FAITH!

*****

Discover other titles by Bobby A. Troutt at Smashwords.com

Beyond the Truth

A Cry in the Wind

Thistles and Thorns

Dead Limbs and Leaves

Troubled Waters

When Autumn Falls

When Time Was

Bittersweet

Sycamore Tales

Stepping Out on a Limb

Odds n Ends

Turning Point

The Fall of Night

In Times of Quitting

Still Wind, Forgotten Days

In Times of Trouble

Special Moments

The Fall of Autumn

Reaching Forward

Bobby A. Troutt is a southern writer who writes a variety of short stories, spiritual books and children's books.
